SPORTS 14 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1993

Despite Howell's new records, a fourth quarter fallout means defeat
By Will Cobb

For once the football team's defense did not hold up Saturday. Centre College broke open a 24-24 tie in the
fourth quarter with 20 points to put the game out of reach. The combination of Kris Garrett and Joey Johnson
grinded out 290 yards on the ground to hold off Davidson’s big play offense led by record-holding Richard Howell. The
loss took away Davidson’s chance to win seven games for the first time since 1969. Now, the Cats (5-4) will
have to face Bridgewater this weekend at home to ensure a winning record for Head Coach Tim Landis.

The score remained tight for most of the first half. The teams went into the locker room tied at fourteen.
The Cats struck first with a seven-yard trot by Bruce Bannister, who finished the day with 46 yards on 12
carries. After falling behind 14-7, Davidson tied the game later when Kelly Shirley grabbed a 17-yard pass from Howell. With
Centre up 24-14 in the third quarter, the big play potential of Howell took off as he scampered 66 yards
for a touchdown. The Cats tied the game early in the fourth quarter with a 36-yard kick by Drew Fassett.
After the field goal, the Colonels from Danville, KY, poured it on, putting the game out of reach with three
rushing touchdowns. Davidson was only able to score once more when Howell connected with Ward Davis for a 61-yard touchdown
pass.

Despite the disappointing loss, the story of the day for Davidson was once again senior quarterback Richard Howell. Howell became
Davidson’s career total offense leader with 289 yards on the afternoon. Though he was held in check through the air
(8-24-150 yards and 2 touchdowns), Howell ran wild on the ground, racking up 139 yards on 23 carries with one
touchdown. The 289 yards give him 5,246 career yards, surpassing Gordon Slade’s 4,983 yards compiled in the late sixties. He
will play his last game as a Wildcat this Saturday at 1:30 against Bridgewater on Richardson Field where Davidson will
go for their sixth win of the season.

Last second chances missed, Men's soccer's season ends in first round
By Will Cobb

Davidson’s second season was cut short in the first round of their conference tournament for the second time in three
years. The Cats lost 3-2 in an overtime thriller to Marshall University. The loss ended a season full of frustration,
leaving the 1993 record at 7-12-2. Friday’s game provided a rematch of the first round of last year’s Southern Conference
Tournament. Unfortunately, the outcome would not be the same as Davidson’s 9-1 rout a year ago.

The Cats wasted no time in taking the lead. Two minutes into the first half, Freshman Robert Clarke took a
beautiful pass on the left side of the goal before blasting the ball past a helpless Marshall keeper to take
a quick 1-0 lead. Practice during the week off went extremely well, and it appeared the Cats were on the
prowl, but Marshall thought otherwise. The answer came less than five minutes later when the Thundering Herd tied the game
up at one apiece. This score would stand for the remainder of the half.

The game stood at 1-1 for almost 70 minutes until Senior Andy Haile punched in the go-ahead goal. Ben Hayes
assisted on the play which helped give Davidson a 2-1 lead with a little over ten minutes left to play.
Again though, Marshall answered quickly, tying the game up with six minutes to play. Both teams took the 2-2 tie
into overtime, where the intensity picked up both mentally and physically. Though no scoring occurred, Davidson barely escaped as Marshall
had two shots that deflected off the crossbar.

With about ten minutes left in the second overtime, things got even crazier. A Marshall striker showed off his manliness
by delivering a ferocious open-handed slap to defender Nick Troiano’s face. This young man received a yellow card. This, however,
was just the beginning. Moments later a Marshall player threw the soccer ball into Haile’s stomach unprovoked. Haile reacted by
knocking the wind out of the player.

See Soccer on page 16

Low five
The volleyball team lost this past weekend in matches against Georgia Southern and the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga. They
face Marshall and East Tennessee State on Friday and Saturday, respectively.
Photo by Casey Rogers

Charleston outswims the Cats
By Jen McGillan

On Saturday afternoon, in a six-lane meter pool at the College of Charleston, the fun began with the 200-meter medley
relay. (For non-swimmers, that means eight laps: two backstroke, two...breaststroke, two butterfly, and two freestyle, done at high speed.) The
meter pool was a change for Davidson swimmers, but it didn’t bother them for long. The competition was intense. Among
many stellar performances were those of sophomores Churchill Hoof and Corey Bean, and freshman Tim Lim. Hoof won the 800-meter
freestyle, Bean came from behind to win the 200-meter freestyle. The Wildcats were not victorious; the women lost by thirty
points and the men by six. However, despite the narrow loss, the team feeling about the meet was positive. Everyone
swam well, and many personal best times were achieved. The meet was also the advent of a familiar yet different
style of coaching for the Wildcats. For the next week and a half, they are going to be under the
direction of Assistant Coach Chip Lavender, while Head Coach Rich DeSelm is on his honeymoon. The next meet is at
UNC-Chapel Hill, on Wednesday, Nov. 10th, at 5 p.m.

Pro hockey comes back to Charlotte
By Robert Lloyd-Still

With the Carolina Panthers and Charlotte Hornets receiving all the media hype and coverage these days, little notice has been
given to the return of professional hockey to Charlotte. After leaving in 1977, the Charlotte Checkers came back this season
to Independence Arena. The Checkers play in the East Coast Hockey League and the team is affiliated with the Boston
Bruins of the NHL (National Hockey League). Other teams in the East Coast Hockey League include the Greensboro Monarchs, Roanoke
Express, Huntsville Blast, and Nashville Knights. Many hockey fans at Davidson are ecstatic to see the return. This past weekend,
over fifty Davidson students watched the Checkers lose 5-2 to the Richmond Renegades. Senior Bob Pascal, who considered buying season
tickets before the season started, commented, “It’s great to see hockey again. There is nothing quite like the sights and
sounds of a hockey game. The level of competition was a little disappointing, but I plan on going to a
lot more games this season.” The reason Pascal found the competition disappointing is that the Checkers are a minor league
franchise. Charlotte is two levels below the NHL. When a player succeeds at Charlotte, they move up to Providence in
the American Hockey League. One must realize, however, that many of the game’s great players bypass Charlotte’s level.

Charlotte first hosted professional hockey back in 1956. The Charlotte Clippers were the first hockey team to play in the
South and the organization was moderately successful. When the Southern League folded in 1977, professional hockey left Charlotte for the
next fifteen years. Despite a 4-6 record, Charlotteans have attended Independence Arena in record numbers. When the Checkers played Richmond
Saturday night, the stadium was filled to capacity. The audience was cluttered with all types of different fans. There were
a number of families, students, and those ever so noticeable, transplanted Yankees who love to watch their hockey. The ambience
of a Checkers game is fun and amusing. Most fans have little experience at hockey games and struggle with such
rules as icing, offsides, slashing, and hooking. However, like all other hockey fans, Charlotte fans know how to hoop and
holler when they see the outbreak of a good, violent fight. The wide variety of music played at Checkers games
is also quite entertaining. One will hear everything from Loverboy to "Whoop, There It Is!" When attending a Charlotte hockey
game, it is most important to sit in the front row. In the front one can hear and feel the
intensity of the game. And it is a great view for all the massive checks.

The Head Coach and Director of Operations of the Checkers is John Marks. Before coming to Charlotte, Marks coached in
the International Hockey League. Before coaching, Marks played for the Chicago Blackhawks of the NHL from 1970 to 1982. He
set the organization’s record for consecutive games played with 509. Marks attended the University of North Dakota and was twice
an NCAA All-American. Two of the minority owners of the Checkers are very familiar to Carolina sports fans. Richard “The
King” Petty and his son, Kyle, both own stakes in the franchise. Richard Petty made his name in NASCAR with
over $7.5 million in career earnings and numerous victories.

While not shown on television, the Checkers can be heard on radio. Sport610 AM broadcasts all the Checkers’ games and
Sam Smith handles the play-by-play. The Checkers will be competing throughout March. They play at Independence Arena and ticket prices
range from five to fifteen dollars. It is a very reasonable price for a fun and exciting time. Don’t
