THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1993

A close friend of mine is being shamelessly repressed here at Davidson, and I feel I’m obligated to come to
his defense. He rarely speaks and is far from offensive, but in certain scenarios at Davidson my friend receives critical
comments and disapproving glares—at times he’s even been commanded to leave. Perhaps you’re familiar with him; he’s small and agile,
he dons an earthy plaid, and he spends the majority of his days resting unobtrusively upon my head. He was
born in Scotland, where my parents met him last year before bringing him to the United States. Because my father
is a Presbyterian minister and because the “Mc” in my name is not there in tribute to an undying affinity
for cheap burgers, Scotland has a particular significance to my family of which I’m reminded every time I see my
friend (let’s call him Scott). Furthermore, by bringing Scott along, I almost feel as though I’m paying homage to my
heritage. Even so, Scott seems enormously unpopular here at Davidson.

Recently, we went together to have our picture taken for the yearbook. Upon seeing Scott, the photographer began squirming, quoting
authorities, and denying responsibility as has often been done to justify discrimination. I was told that if Scott didn’t leave,
I couldn’t be in the yearbook. Scott and I are baffled enough by trying to understand why so many people
at Davidson want to be alike without having to wonder why they want us to be like them. The best
we could do was to compromise; one shot with Scott and one without. I hope these yearbook “authorities” will deny
their apparent tendency to demand conformity by keeping the picture with Scott. I simply don’t think I’d be recognized at
Davidson without Scott around; he is even in my ID photo with me! I don’t travel with Scott to be
disrespectful, but rather to show respect for my ancestry. I think the only disrespect arises from the evident desire to
suppress even the most unobtrusive nonconformity.

The Union, however, generally offers little aggressive opposition to Scott. Baker, on the other hand, does not even attempt to
hide its spite. Scott is not allowed on my head once within the walls of our sports complex. While a
huge percentage of Scott’s breed residing in the US today are employed for sports purposes, they are forbidden to accompany
Davidson students when they are most helpful. Scott can keep hair out of my eyes and sweat off my forehead;
he certainly isn’t going to injure anyone! When I asked why Baker opposed Scott, I was pointed to Terry Holland.
Although we learned upon our arrival that having the name “Terry” at Davidson grants a person certain powers in the
establishment of absolutes, Scott and I were shocked by the audacity of Holland’s prohibition. Does he think that being traditional
is the same as being right? Does he think some ancient god is enraged by Scott’s presence? Scott broke character
and responded by offering a few friendly verses:

Terry, Terry, — Quite contrary, (My how you’re guardin’ so!) We won’t enrage Eros By wearing sombreros, So off with
your “head-embargo.”

(Scott never boasted poetic prowess, but I think his complaint is clear.)

There have been many other situations at the college during which people have responded to Scott with a pronounced advocacy
of de-cap-itation. Some prefer not to eat around him, but then again we prefer not to eat around dead domesticated
animals, but no one is deeming that socially unacceptable. Scott would gladly leave a table in order to save a
few lives and promote better ecological efficiency. Generally, though, those who are open-minded enough to alter their diet are accepting
of Scott, and he has no intention of leaving for those who aren’t so willing. Scott doesn’t even dare enter
certain churches, for in the past certain people have seemed to view him as offensive to the Great Aesthete whom
they worship. It is as though it’s unsafe for me to enter such churches unless I am accompanied by my
friend Ty! Still, Scott refuses to accept repression and is considering attending a Jewish ceremony where his type are not
only accepted but expected.

Ultimately, Scott’s a great guy, and I’m truly comfortable when he’s around. I don’t have to comb my hair around
him, and I don’t have to fit a pre-conceived notion of the ideal Davidson student. We know others have felt
oppression here far more grievously than Scott’s, but the acceptance of my association with Scott and of other nonconformity could
help inspire the free-thinking which Davidson claims to promote. Scott and I appreciate your understanding.

Ethan McCutchen Meet Scott, my hat.

Susan Beale The grinch who stole X-mas.

First of ALL, a. WILLARY Chane CONGRITU = ON HON %6U EOI —— ARE CONTINUING a= To GROW IN .
STATURE...

Blame it on Texas: Susanna Young I've got to go where it's warm.

I had thought about writing about how much date functions irritate me. Then I was going to write a column
advocating the need for a fourth women’s eating house. Neither of these subjects have anything at all to do with
country music, I just thought I might venture to put in my two cents worth. Well, I just did. Now
I’m going to tackle that subject (besides Economics 101) that has been most occupying my thoughts for the past week.
It doesn’t have to do with country music directly, but it does have to do with Texas. It’s FREEZING! I
was recently discussing the temperature with two of my companions, one from California, the other from Florida. The general consensus
was that when it’s sunny out, you should be able to wear shorts. I had decided that, in protest, I
was going to boycott pants on days when the sun was shining. The problem was, of course, that I live
in Irwin (exit Mooresville) and I have pressing business, namely class, in Chambers. Well, I braved the cold and struck
out to hike up the hill in my cut-offs. Later, I was discussing how to treat a cold that I
think may be turning intoa sinus infection and then, I’m sure, pneumonia, with my mother. My mother, you realize, was
working in the garden and cleaning out the still naturally warm swimming pool. These are signs of warmth, something I’m
sure I couldn’t pick out of a crowd after the week of frost I’ve already had to endure. Her suggestions
were: a) wear pants and, b) make sure you don’t marry anyone who wants to live north of the 30th
parallel. That might cause problems. Thanks, Mom.

The greatest problem with the temperature is that, in my dorm room, which is in Siberia anyway, it is at
least twenty degrees colder than it is outside. The “igloo,” as we are apt to affectionately refer to it. I
am not able to control the temperature in my room, by the way, and, to whom it may concern, I
am sick and tired of feeling like Mr. Rogers as I come back from class, take off my sweater and
my shoes, put on long underwear, my winter coat, a fourth pair of socks, and my house shoes.

In an attempt to bring country music into the picture somehow, I would like to bring to your attention the
fact that there are many country songs that talk about that chilly phenomenon of which we are now in the
midst. George Strait began to feel “The Chill of an Early Fall.” Lorrie Morgan agrees that “Autumn’s Not That Cold.”
Most of all, I would like to remind you of a very pertinent question asked by Joe Diffie, “Is it
cold in here or is it just you?” Well, Joe, I have an answer. IT IS NOT JUST ME! And
to whomever turned the heater off, 150 (eh we Normally, I try to compose somewhat uplifting ideas in my articles
that leave the reader with a positive message. Unfortunately, this week I could not muster enough energy to achieve this
goal and so I plan to do some complaining. You cynics out there were probably waiting for this day. Well,
the day has arrived.

What is troubling me, you may ask? I am extremely frustrated with the choice of dates scheduled for our exam
periods (Dec. 17-23). For you lucky ones who have two or fewer exams, I applaud you for your foresight in
choosing more manageable classes. I (for some reason which I still have not discovered) decided to take 3 English classes
and 1 Art History. When I signed up for these courses in the spring, I was not thinking about how
miserable my last month of these classes could prove to be. Well, I dug my grave, and now I am
resigning to lay down and suffer. Yes, I have FOUR papers, and yes, I have FOUR exams. The administration is
probably wondering why I am complaining since they added on extra exam day options. I have to admit that these
additional days do make preparation for the tests more manageable, but this is not any real BONUS. Hey seniors, have
you forgotten that our exam period lasted 8 DAYS when we were freshmen? This “considerate” administration yanked away these days
from us, but after realizing their mistakes, decided to return ALMOST ALL of those valuable days to us.

I have heard that the school calendar has already been set and can only be moved back one day each
year. Therefore, I know there is little hope that I will see a change in the system before I graduate.
Supposedly, when the administration created the schedule, they were considering the fact that professors had conferences during the vacations that
could possibly conflict with the academic semester. With this in mind, I understand that the administration faced a predicament for
they had to choose between professors and students. Guess who they chose? (I won't even answer that question). I find
the student’s situation quite ironic. Wouldn’t you think that dedicated, serious-minded students should receive a reward for their diligence? If
I did not care about my achievement in my courses, I could simply take my four exams in two days,
hop in a car and be home December 19th. Unfortunately, my conscience would not allow me to even consider such
an option. Thus, I will be at the grind until December 23rd. Hey out there... do you realize what day
that is? The day before CHRISTMAS EVE! Usually, it takes me 2-3 days to sleep and recuperate from exam hell
week. What should I do this year? Sleep through Christmas?!? I have to drive alone eight hours home, AFTER having
taken four three-hour exams, and AFTER having packed my bags, and AFTER having packed my car, and AFTER having gone
to the post office to empty out my P.O. Box for the holidays. Realistically, I do not see arriving home
before 10 p.m. I do have another wonderful option--I could stop in the evening at a roadside motel, shell out
$40 and awake in a desolate room on Christmas Eve. Isn't that appealing? When I arrive Christmas Eve, I will
not have had time to buy presents for my family and will feel completely guilt-ridden. One possible positive outcome: I
might be able to save some cash when I go “Christmas” shopping at the AFTER CHRISTMAS sales!

My story, however, isn’t even as bad as one I heard yesterday. A friend of mine who is going abroad
next semester had to buy an extra plane ticket just to fly home to Houston because he will not have
enough time to drive home before Christmas. He will have to fly back to Davidson the first week of January
just to drive his car back home before he leaves the country. How annoying is that?!? I guess that my
little article will not be effective in changing the system while I am still at Davidson, but maybe “those in
charge” will learn from their mistakes and admit that the students’ well-being was completely disregarded. I have to concede that
it was a great idea to return extra days to our exam schedule... BUT I must reiterate — that we
had MORE EXAM DAYS in 1990-91! Hey Grinch, Happy Holidays!
