6 THE DAVIDSONIAN ELSEWHERE

Editors' note: "Elsewhere" is a weekly feature designed to discuss news occurring beyond the Davidson College community. It is in
no way an attempt to "cover" world news—the resources of this small paper are far too limited to even attempt
such a bold task. It is, however, intended to provide a forum for analysis of weekly world events.

NEWS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1993 | Perspective

NOTES

Nixing Reagan
"If anybody needed an explanation of an economic plan that seemed, even to many Democrats, to have no economic rationale,
that was it. In the end, the driving idea behind the Clinton program was not jobs, economic growth, or even
deficit reduction. It was undoing the economic policies of the Reagan era, especially the hated across-the-board tax cuts of 1981.
Indeed, as many Democrats have come to understand, [Clinton's tax plan] is likely to slow the economy."
-Brit Hume, ABC's Chief White House correspondent in "Undoing Reagan," from National Review, September 6, 1993.

A Broader Approach in Bosnia
“The Bosnian solution must be sought in the context of a broader approach to the challenge of many newly emerging
small nation-states. Once the fighting stops, the former Yugoslav republics will quickly discover that economic considerations dictate the restoration of
severed links. Those small states must become building blocks for a new regional order. Today’s fragmented former Yugoslavia could help
pave the way to a more peaceful solution to Europe’s most pressing problem: the fierce pride and mutual hatred of
the Continent’s many ethnic minorities.”
-Dusko Doder in the 1993 summer issue of Foreign Policy

Inalienable Rights
“Look, the Constitution says that all men are created equal, and it doesn’t say that all men are created equal
except for gays. Just like everyone else who is born in this country, gays are endowed by their creator, God,
with inalienable rights, and among those are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. At birth, whether you are born
in Russia, Cuba, South Africa, or New York, you are born equal. The difference is that our [American] babies can
grow up to live free.”
-Conservative Barry Goldwater defending his stance against the Pentagon’s ban on homosexuals in the military in the September 7 issue
of The Advocate. Mr. Goldwater’s grandson is gay.

On Adolescent Crime
"It's a case study in how best to create a criminal. You take a high school senior who's never been
arrested before. And when he gets caught climbing through the school window and eating ice cream from the cafeteria, you
don't reprimand him, put him on probation or assign him to community service. If you want to turn him into
a hard-core criminal, sentence him to three years in an adult prison."
-From the editorial pages of The Atlanta Constitution, September 1, 1993.

And from Davidson
"The Administration needs to terminate these Utopian hopes for Davidson and start looking at basic human needs: sex, beer, drugs
and rock and roll."
"The lack of intelligent graffiti shocks and dismays."
-Anonymous. From the walls of the men's bathroom in the Union.

The Davidsonian is looking for insightful, intelligent, no-nonsense analysis of world & national events. If you are interested, contact Mandy
at -6252

The Week in Washington: Stephen Shores
Clinton unveils health care plan
An early vote on NAFTA could derail bill

Last week was highlighted by the long-awaited release of the Clinton Administration’s plan for national health care. The proposal of
managed competition stands to be a divisive issue as many lawmakers from both parties have raised serious questions about the
effects of such a policy on the current health care system. The Clinton plan will set up regional health care
alliances throughout the country. The alliances would contract with groups of health care providers for the lowest cost of services.
Citizens and legal aliens will choose the benefits package they

Around the World: Tim Ogden
A crash course in international politics
Solving problems in the Middle East and the former Soviet republics.

One of the annual rites of passage for Davidson freshmen is the International Awareness Test, the college’s helpful and humiliating
way of proving to you that you know nothing about what’s going on in the world. If you’re a freshman
you may still be licking your wounds over this economic reform scan continue the way Yeltsin wants them. This may
backfire on Yeltsin by galvanizing his hard-line opposition in the parliament.

Country: Israel (maybe not the Gaza Strip anymore)
Players: Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, Foreign Minister Shimon Peres, and PLO chairman Yasser Arafat
What’s going on: The Palestinian Liberation Organization and Israel are apparently about to sign a historic agreement giving the Gaza
strip and the West Bank city of Jericho limited Palestinian self-rule. These areas have been under Israeli control

Perhaps (I hope) you’re wonderingHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

What existence." Since an Arab attack on Israel, you can do more to get in touch with the world. One
option is to drop out of Davidson so you can even contemplate having the time to read the New York
Times on a daily basis. Another is to read this column weekly and attend the monthly Foreign Affairs Forums sponsored
by the Dean Rusk Program (which, I might add, are much more interesting than NYT). This year many different Davidson
students interested in international affairs will be writing in this space. It fell to me to write the first Dean
Rusk Davidsonian article. Rather than focus on any one point of what’s going on in the world, I decided to
help you freshmen, and you upperclassmen fresh off a vegetative summer, restore your self-esteem (at least as far as your
international awareness is concerned). Here’s a rundown of some of the more important recent developments that will clue you in
on what the newspaper headlines are talking about.

Country: Russia (not just the Soviet Union anymore)
Players: Russian President Boris Yeltsin, Russian VP Vladimir Rutskoi
What’s going on: Yeltsin dismissed his chief rival Rutskoi until charges of corruption can be investigated. However, debate is still
going on over whether Yeltsin has the power to do this. Many believe that Yeltsin is just trying to get
Rutskoi out of the way.

Country: Israel and Palestine
Players: PLO and Israel
What’s going on: The agreement may be signed before you read this (Check the NYT to find out). Right now
the main sticking point is that the PLO and Israel have to recognize each other's existence (which they haven’t ever
done officially) and the exact wordings of these declarations are being haggled over intensely.

Country: Haiti
Players: Elected President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, new prime minister Robert Malval, Military government
What’s going on: Haiti has been in the news for the past year mainly because of the huge tide of
Haitians leaving the country and trying to come to the U.S. One reason they were coming is that the legitimately
elected president Aristide had been overthrown by a military junta. After months of blowing smoke, the world finally got around
to imposing an oil embargo on Haiti until the military agreed to return Aristide to power. A few weeks later
the military relented. Robert Malval was installed as prime minister recently, an important step toward restoring Haiti to democracy.

Other important events to look for are: Japan’s attempt to reform its government, Bosnia and Somalia, as always, the struggle
for democracy in Nigeria (Africa’s most populous nation), and the progress of NAFTA.

Central to Clinton’s plan is an increase in taxes on employers to finance health care for workers. The average yearly
increase for an individual will be $1,800 and for an average family $4,200. Eighty percent of this tax increase will
be paid for by employers. Republicans contend the tax will cause higher unemployment. The administration’s solution for this problem is
to subsidize those small businesses which cannot afford a tax increase. However, the source of this revenue remains a mystery.
Clinton will also try to appease skeptics by not including short-term price controls as part of his plan. Many lawmakers
view price controls as a hindrance to the technological advances which characterize the success of the current system. The administration
warns, however, that “price gouging” (the practice of raising prices now to make up for profits that may be lost
later) will not be tolerated.

Passage of the plan can depend as much on timing as content. Should NAFTA come to the floor before health
care, Clinton may be in some trouble. For passage of NAFTA, Clinton will rely heavily on Republican support of the
plan. Many Democrats have come out against the treaty because of the threat to jobs in their districts. Clinton must
prevent Democrats from abandoning his health care proposal because of deals he makes to pass NAFTA. Lawmakers want NAFTA to
come now so it will not play such a large role in deciding next year’s elections. In addition, NAFTA is
set to go into effect on January 1. Clinton will expend much political capital on his health care plan. The
plan needs bipartisan support to pass through Congress. If it does pass, the states have until 1998 to comply with
its terms.

An alternative to the Clinton plan would be to keep the remaining structure. As Republican Richard Armey of Texas claimed
in Monday's New York Times, “Eighty percent of the people are satisfied with the current health care system.” Although Armey
conceded some changes are necessary, the current system does have positive elements. Among these is the availability of the most
advanced treatment in the world. Those who are covered under the current structure receive the best health care in the
world.

Recycle This

---
