THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS  
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1993

Changes on Patterson Court  
Terry, CCRL finalize alcohol policy  
By Jay Jennings

Davidson has a revised alcohol policy for Patterson Court for the ’93-’94 school year based on the recommendations of the Council on Campus and Religious Life and the Dean of Students. This policy, approved by President Kuykendall and the Trustees, will shift responsibility from the alcohol monitors to the houses of Patterson Court.

This year there will be two sober monitors from the host organization, one for each additional sponsor, a risk manager, and a police officer. According to Kurt Holmes, Patterson Court Adviser, the sober monitors are the “first line of defense” and will hopefully fix any problems that arise at parties. If the sober monitors do not attempt to correct the problems, the risk manager will tell the sober monitor to do so. Risk managers will issue citations if their requests are ignored.

Holmes said the revised policy will not encourage random checks of I.D.’s, but will deal with “those who are disruptive or bring undue attention to themselves.” This is a big change from the job of the alcohol monitors, which seemed to be the only alcohol enforcement.

Violations of the policy by the houses will go to a new judicial part of the Patterson Court Committee rather than the Alcohol Enforcement Committee (AEC). Individual citations will still go to the AEC. The Dean of Students, Will Terry, feels that it was a “big mistake” to take away enforcement from the houses and the PCC and wanted to return the enforcement this year.

The revised policy allows for two weekday parties each week. This will provide the opportunity for parties from the houses with the resources and desire to have parties. The actual number of parties will not increase significantly, but will be more evenly distributed. Parties co-sponsored with the Union will not count for the number of parties each week. Dean Terry hopes this will encourage the Union and PCC to work together on many events this year.

The policy stipulates the rules for BYOB parties, which did not have any rules in the past. There will be a limit on the amount of alcohol that can be brought to the party and it must be taken to a designated serving area.

Last Spring, the PCC, SGA, Dean of Students, the Student Health and Other Concerns, and the Campus Police were asked to submit suggestions for a revised policy. The CCRL and William Brown, head of the Union, Dean Terry, and Kurt Holmes rewrote the policy considering the suggestions around April 15. The CCRL gave the revised policy to President Kuykendall, who approved the plan soon after.

The SGA wanted the revised policy to allow 21-year-olds to bring two cups from the basement at a time. The PCC and Dean Terry realized this could not be justified and would not be passed by President Kuykendall and the Trustees. Dean Terry wanted to emphasize the effectiveness of the PCC’s recommendations. Almost all of their suggestions were accepted.

Both Dean Terry and Kurt Holmes hope that the revised policy will make the court setting more relaxed and reduce confrontations between students and the authorities.

---

Sigma Alpha Epsilon hopes to once again have this much fun.  
SAE returns to court after suspension  
By Katherine Hash

Davidson’s chapter of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity has returned to their former house on Patterson Court after a one-year suspension. The Council on Campus and Religious Life accepted SAE’s petition for readmission last spring.According to Will Terry, Dean of Students and chair of the CCRL, RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING CORPS:

Things got pretty competitive for this job. I'm sure my college degree and good grades kept me in the running. Leadership management through Army ROTC won them over. You can begin to develop leadership skills with an Army ROTC elective.

MIL 101 - The U.S. Army Today "Introduction to Leadership"
- MIL 101-A, Tuesday 13:00 - 14:15
- MIL 101-B, Wednesday 09:30 - 10:20
- MIL 101-C, Thursday 08:30 - 09:45

SAE’s return to the court depended on their completion of the CCRL’s recommendations to update by-laws, revise their pledge program, and create an Alumni Advisory Board. SAE submitted these revisions to President Kuykendall in early August. Kuykendall then finalized the decision to allow SAE back on campus.

SAE was placed on social probation due to a “series of unfortunate incidents” in 1991-92, according to Dean Terry. Their subsequent sponsoring of a prohibited pledge activity resulted in their suspension from the court. For the ’92-’93 school year, the fraternity was restricted from sponsoring social activities on campus, conducting formal rush, issuing bids, and running a pledge program.

Dean Terry recognized the importance of making SAE’s return to the court “as viable as possible as soon as possible.” Juniors who had been pledging when the fraternity was suspended were finally initiated last Tuesday night. Sophomores who had opted to wait for SAE rather than select another house will be initiated this fall after a mini-pledge program. SAE will conduct formal rush for freshmen along with the other fraternities this spring.

Edwin Thomas, SAE president, hopes the new pledge program will help SAE “return to some of the ideals such as friendship, tolerance, and maturity which the fraternity was founded on.” The eight-week pledge period culminates in a pledge retreat/camping trip. Kurt Holmes, Patterson Court Advisor, hopes the program will “serve as a model for the other houses on the court.”

The SAEs are residing in their former Patterson Court house. According to Dean Terry, the decision to allow SAE to retain their house was made at the time of their suspension. Connor President Julie Petty says Connor, who occupied the house last year, was glad that SAE was allowed to move back into the house “which is important to them as a physical place.” Connor is happy to be settling into a permanent house of their own at No. 4 Patterson Court, the former Spencer House.

According to Thomas, SAE is very excited to be back and is looking forward to a new beginning marked by active involvement in the community. The SAEs sponsored the first court party of the year last Tuesday night. They also hosted the first Patterson Court Council meeting Sunday, August 29. The SAEs are currently working on their Annual Davidson Charity Calendar project. After this year, the project will have raised $50,000 toward the SAE Endowed Book Fund, which enables the library to buy 100 new books per year.

HELLO

The Davidsonian will be holding an organizational meeting on Thursday, September 9 at 7:00. Meet in the Union Pit or be on the lookout for fliers for the specific location. Everyone even remotely interested in writing for the paper should attend this meeting.