16 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 1993 - THE BACK PAGE

INTERVIEW With President John Kuykendall

By Chris Frampton

Editor's Note: The Davidsonian recently had a chance to talk with President John Kuykendall about various issues affecting the Davidson College campus.

Davidsonian: One of your major responsibilities as President has been supervising the Campaign for Davidson. Can you give us an idea of how the fund-raising effort is progressing?

Kuykendall: We’re very encouraged and right now the campaign does take a lot of time, not only for me, but for a lot of people in this community, and not only people who are paid to raise money for Davidson. Faculty and staff members who have other major obligations, alumni and volunteers, a number of students as well - everybody has joined the effort. The campaign has good momentum just now. The economic circumstances under which we’ve operated for a year or so have been mildly adverse at best, and yet the campaign continues to meet its goals along the way. People keep saying that the last fifty million or forty million is the hardest, and they’re probably right about that, but we have every reason to be optimistic from this vantage that we’ll make the campaign goal and make it on time. We’re coming to the point in the campaign at which you begin to see which projects have been attractive to donors and which ones need more support. You may raise the total number of dollars you anticipated, but directing those dollars to the particular goals is a kind of juggling game.

Davidsonian: When you took on the job, you must have certainly had certain goals for the college. Have you been successful in attaining those?

Kuykendall: The office is a lot messier, a lot messier. I think that the goals that I established for myself in taking this job are essentially attached to the goals the community sets for itself. This is a community which is rather introspective and always striving to improve. If “excellent” is good enough for today it is not good enough for tomorrow. We try to go on beyond ourselves. That holds true in practically every area of life in this college. I was commenting to our first-year faculty recently in a little session we had together that they will learn that as springtime comes, our energy and patience always seem to run out at the same time the semester does, and there’s nothing left. If the semester lasted three more days we might have a meltdown. Then we regroup and we come back the next year, determined to be the best we can be. That’s something that’s almost instinctive in the Davidson community. So if I were to say I’ve met any of my goals I guess I would have to quickly comment that beyond that another goal emerges beyond that one, and I think that that’s true for the community as well. I don’t have any preconception of what has to be accomplished at any given time. I have personal chronologies that I kind of live by, including my age and my health and my enthusiasm about the job I’m doing. My sense of calling is essentially the vocation to the teaching profession. I do this as a kind of an adjunct to what I feel called to do with my whole life.

Davidsonian: Have you started to lose the call?

Kuykendall: Not the call to teach, certainly.

Davidsonian: Have you begun to consider retirement?

Kuykendall: Every morning. Seriously though, I do have a responsibility to think about an appropriate point of transition to some other president’s leadership of the college, and when and how that takes place, and there are certain obvious parameters. If my health and my relationships with the constituencies hold I feel I have an obligation to finish this campaign, for example. Beyond that, I think, if not selfish, at least self-conscious concerns come into play. How long does one do a job like this without becoming stale and, from the college’s vantage, when does an appropriate time come for someone who has different strategies and strengths than I do?

Davidsonian: Can you give us an idea on how you see the school at this moment?

Kuykendall: I’m probably the worst person to address that issue. In the areas where strength is needed I see strength. In terms of the sort of people who are attracted here as students, as faculty members, as staff, I see the right sorts of people coming. I see always places in which we need to work on ourselves and be better, and sometimes change comes at a very slow pace. We sometimes can judge how well we’re doing not by how different we are, how much bigger or fancier or whatever, but how well we’ve adhered to the particular goals that we’ve set for ourselves. My vision on this may be limited because I’m an avowed advocate of Davidson as a liberal arts college, and as a liberal arts college that is historically related to the Presbyterian Church.

Davidsonian: How about the school’s relationship with DCPC, how do you see student involvement as well as the exchange between the...church and the administration?

Kuykendall: I think our relationship with the local congregation is so much better now that it is more carefully delineated. We have a very fine working relationship with DCPC just now, institution to institution. I guess, what I see in terms of student involvement is a cyclical relationship, in part. The church’s clear intention with the prospect of hiring a new associate minister is to become much more involved in the life of the campus. With the college’s intention to have a new chaplain who can provide the same sort of leadership that Chuck did, we’ll have a great team. So there should be a very strong relationship and by all odds an enhancement of student involvement in DCPC. But that’s crystal ball gazing. We don’t know how that actually works out, but with regard to our ties with the congregation here on the corner of the campus, there is every reason to be optimistic.

Davidsonian: One of the most prevalent issues on campus this year has been the new alcohol policy. To date, your opinion and role has not been gauged. Could you give us an idea of the role you played in the adoption of the new policy?

Kuykendall: It is my responsibility to receive the proposal, review, and approve it, and then convey it to the board for their confirmation. In this case, Will Terry, the CCRL, and others worked on the new policy. I was kept apprised of developments throughout, and reviewed several drafts before the final form. It’s my responsibility, constitutionally, to present policies that need trustee approval to the board. In terms of the drafting of the policy itself, my role was more consultative. I felt that some things had to be there from the standpoint of the law, others from the college's sense of both responsibility and liability, and others that would be very significant just from the overall stance of the college. So I was involved, yes, and concurred with the proposal that was taken to the trustees. I felt it was the proper thing to do.

Davidsonian: Do you think the policy has been successful?

Kuykendall: I think it’s too soon to tell. I would be wary of any answer anyone gave on that. I think it’s certainly made a difference in some social patterns on the campus. Ironically, it has perhaps provided some encouragement for precisely the sorts of things that the people who were responsible for the law to raise the drinking age were concerned to prevent.

Davidsonian: The new policy has often been criticized for taking away much of the “freedom and responsibility” that seems to be the underlying principle of the Code of Responsibility. How do you respond to that?

Kuykendall: Each individual still has responsibility for his or her own behavior but the college is finally responsible for what goes on within the community. I think we share responsibility. I don’t think either option is an adequate answer. There is a sense in which PCC governance had the opportunity and relinquished it, but there’s also a sense in which we continue to have responsibilities and obligations as citizens of a state. But, I guess my concern is that this is an area of the college’s life which, because of the peculiarities of the law under which we all must live, the college is either obliged to stick its head in the sand and allow things to go as they had been going or provide some sort of leadership.

Davidsonian: Several months ago a letter appeared in The Davidsonian regarding the new policy and the use of another student’s college I.D. as false identification. The letter, written by a former chair of the Honor Council, called for an end to the Honor Code. Do you think such a move is at all warranted?

Kuykendall: The writer is a friend for whom I have a great deal of respect, but I don’t happen to share his opinion on this matter. The decision was intended to provide some definition of the length to which the college and its particular ethos can reach into the community. We are increasingly conscious in this day and time of the limitations on the college’s legal authority than say during earlier times. At the same time, I think the point he was underscoring in a very forceful manner is an assumption that the moral principles of Davidson students are not circumscribed by geography. What is appropriate behavior in one’s life in this community ought, we hope, continue to be appropriate in every other community of which that person will be a part not only during college years but also the rest of their lives. As I look at Davidson alumni from the most recent ones to those from earlier days, it is generally true that their word is their bond and that their personal behavior and demeanor within the community is honorable. So I see the point he’s trying to make. I’m not aware of the details under which the decision was made, but I think he’s made a very valid point. In my mind, though, it doesn’t imply the Honor System is bankrupt and ought to be done away with. We continue to hope that Davidson students will be consistent in their values, wherever they are.