THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1993 15

Photo courtesy of College Relations
Adam Knapp, Edwin Thomas, and Miles Mowry in Equus, performed last week in Cunningham.

Equus inspires audiences
By Jacob Abraham

Peter Shaffer’s Equus contains so many rich subtleties and complex themes that to explicate them all would take a whole book, or at least a senior thesis. There are no easy roles in the play. The deceptively simple stage alternately conveys the sense of a doctor’s office, a stable, a movie theater, and a huge field at night. From line to line, the characters must often move from one setting to another, from past tense to present, and from addressing the audience to addressing each other. Yet the actors and technical crew, under director Alex Pinkston, manage to create in their production a ritualistic, almost religious theater experience.

As Dr. Dysart wrestles with the lack of passion in his own life and the twisted, painful acts of worship which Alan Strang undertakes, the audience is inspired to reconsider with Dysart their own notions of worship and passionate living. While the play seems to revolve around Alan’s insanity, Dysart serves as the central character whom the audience identifies with most. Miles Mowry splendidly portrays Dysart’s frustration over the lack of passion in his life, as well as his frustration with his profession as a child psychiatrist; his job involves removing from his patients the very passion and sense of worship which he longs for in his own life. Adam Knapp embodies Alan’s madness, right down to his piercing stares and defensive body movements, like those of a trapped animal. The other characters put forth extremely convincing performances as well. In particular, Andrew Smitherman adds a comic element to his role as Frank Strang, while capturing the pretentiousness and hidden insecurities of Alan’s father. In the difficult love scene, Jennifer Don manages to bring a sense of tenderness to her role as flirtatious Jill Mason.

The technical crew almost outdoes the brilliant performances from the actors. The stage itself, constructed from old, mildewed wood and metal, lends a sense of rawness and earthiness to the play; the rotating platform on stage dramatically suggests the riding of the horse and the rising emotion at the end of act one. The backlighting effect is startlingly used at various points in the play to fill the whole stage with surreal colors and to offset the characters. Technical director Ronnie Higdon masterfully orchestrates the lighting and stage effects to complement the action on stage.

While the controversy surrounding the nude scene in act two has been minimal, the shock effect of the nudity in the scene borders on detracting from the importance of the events on stage. Yet the nudity furthers the sense of vulnerability that Alan feels. The scene also amplifies the voyeuristic aspect of the play. Mowry succeeds in conveying Dysart’s growing personal involvement in Alan’s therapy; rather than merely offering treatment, he begins to almost manipulate Alan’s recollections, perhaps so that he can vicariously experience Alan’s vitality and passion. Although Dysart realizes his own lack of worship and fervor, he cannot escape the sterility and impotence of his life, and he knows that Alan will soon be “healed” of his madness and condemned to a similar state. The play ends with an appropriately unsatisfying, unsettling conclusion.

HAVE YOU LOST YOUR BIKE?
The Davidson police department stores found bicycles for six months. Check to see if they have yours.

Morrison: A rock n' roll martyr
Doors continued from page 13

cleansed, all will appear as it truly is: infinite.” The Doors quickly developed a following of people who came to see their intense, sometimes temperamental performances. Early on, the band developed a reputation for being inconsistent live, usually due to the antics of their mercurial singer. From the beginning, Morrison was intent on experiencing every possible aspect of life, and often furthered this goal by consuming great quantities of drugs and alcohol before his performances. On some nights, this evolved into hours of free-form musical jams leading Morrison to impose spontaneous, stream of consciousness lyrics that delighted and intrigued the crowd. On other nights, he would grow belligerent and insult the audience or refuse to perform. But somehow, people were drawn to him, and to the band’s music. The haunting, carnivalesque organ served as a backdrop to the sharp, heavy guitar sound, while Densmore’s strong drumming punctuated Morrison’s singing. As the lead singer, Morrison was an entertaining performer, sometimes dancing across the stage like an Indian, at other times falling dramatically to the floor and howling into the microphone. With his tousled brown hair and sinuous presence onstage, Morrison could achieve a rapportWith the crowd that relied on his acute sexuality, in 1967, the Doors released their first album to mass critical acclaim. With such classic Doors staples as “Break On Through,” “Soul Kitchen,” “The End,” and the overplayed “Light My Fire,” the self-titled album signaled the breakthrough of a new, original band. “The End,” with its hypnotic and desperate themes of death, alienation, and Oedipal complexes, was itself a characteristic Doors song. While other supergroups of the period were writing about peace and love, Morrison’s lyrics expressed an existential fascination with sex, death, and nothingness that was a reflection of his highly destructive personality. The Doors followed their self-titled release with five more studio albums, all of which are extremely accessible and innovative. Perhaps two of the Doors’ most brilliant albums were The Soft Parade and L.A. Woman, their last release. The Soft Parade contains both melancholy and upbeat tunes, from “Shaman’s Blues” and “The Soft Parade” to “Touch Me” and “Tell All the People.” L.A. Woman shows a band confused about their status as rock stars and uncertain about their place in the future. The title song, “L.A. Woman,” is a classic driving song, full of speed and restlessness. At this point, the band’s style had evolved to a tight, cohesive musical synchronicity, and they played their instruments with skill and expert polish. “I see your hair is burning/ Hills are filled with fire/ If they say I never loved you/ You know they are a liar,” Morrison sings, his voice gravelly and hoarse with emotion. A parting lament to Los Angeles, “L.A. Woman” also gives a sense of Morrison’s continuing feelings of alienation. Other crucial songs on this album include “Love Her Madly” and “Hyacinth House.” Some claim that Morrison’s lyrics were nothing better than junior high poetry. Undoubtedly, he did write some bad poetry, but most of the collections that have been assembled came straight from his personal notebooks and had not been subject to revision. His lyrics, on the other hand, are sometimes quite complex and full of surprising images. “When the still sea conspires an armour/ And its sullen and aborted currents breed tiny monsters/ True Sailing is Dead,” Morrison sings in “Horse Latitudes,” a song about the sacrificial drowning of Spanish stallions. “Soul Kitchen” contains the unexpected image, “The cars crawl past all stuffed with eyes.” In “Moonlight Drive,” Jim writes, “Let’s swim to the moon/ Let’s climb through the tide/ Penetrate the evening that the/ City sleeps to hide.” “Peace Frog,” from 1970’s Morrison Hotel, is a clever and catchy song, interestingly enough, about abortion. On “Ghost Song,” Morrison softly speaks, “Awake! Shake dreams from your hair, my pretty child, my sweet one.” Later in the song, he presents another interesting image: “We laugh like soft mad children/ Smug in the woolly cotton brains of infancy.” After the release of L.A. Woman, Morrison moved to Paris with his girlfriend Pamela to take some time off from the band. Although L.A. Woman had once again made the Doors the darlings of critics, many claimed that Morrison was a washed-out alcoholic. This was true. The band’s demise began with his arrest in Dade County, Florida, for indecent exposure. The subsequent trial brought the band both bad publicity and scorn. Morrison had begun to drink himself into oblivion and had lost his youthful leanness and energy that the crowd had found so appealing. Most Doors shows were disappointing, with him either insulting the audience or being too drunk to sing. The band hoped that he could use his time in Paris to recover and revitalize himself, but in July of 1971, he was found dead in his bathtub. As there was no autopsy, it is not clear what the actual cause of death was, though some theorize it was a heart attack or a drug overdose. He was buried quietly in Père Lachaise cemetery, and the Doors' career ended abruptly. It is interesting to speculate where the Doors might have been today had Morrison not died. Undoubtedly, his death makes him somewhat of a rock n’ roll martyr, like Jimi Hendrix or Janis Joplin. Ultimately, had he continued with his self-destructiveness, he would have died sooner or later, and without him, it was unlikely that the Doors could have continued. During their short career, they recorded six brilliant studio albums and left behind a few live recordings, and perhaps it is better that they broke up when they did. Sometimes a brief, yet highly productive output is better than a long, tedious career of hits and embarrassing failures.

Davidson in Washington
Informational meeting: 4:30 p.m., Tuesday, November 9
Chambers 211
Call Dr. Peter Ahrensdorf (-2454) with questions.