6 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1993

WALTER PRICE - Editor in Chief
SARAH GAYLE - Managing Editor
TOM KOONCE - Associate Editor
TOM PRICE - Assistant Editor
SEAN LIND - News Editor
ALICE FELMLEE - Ass't News Editor
LEIGH RAWDON - Ass't News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Opinions Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Ass't Opinions Editor
CHRIS HOVELAND - Davidson Arts Editor
STANCEL RILEY - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL - Ass't Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor
ALEX DANIEL - Production Manager
LAURA DENNIS - Ass't Production Manager

The Davidsonian
Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

HARRISON ROBERTS - Advertising Manager
BILL BRYAN - Ass't Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS - Business Manager
KATRICE SHULER - Circulation Manager

— Letters —

A Note in Closing

Traditionally, this space in The Davidsonian has been reserved for the unsigned editorials of the paper’s editorial board. In this,
my final issue as editor in chief, I wanted to take the opportunity to make a few comments and offer
a few well-deserved thank yous.

Last week in this space ran the editorial published in the first Davidsonian of April 1914. The editorial noted that
the paper’s purpose sought to “increase the spirit in athletic, literary, social and religious life here; it can be a
link between college and community, alumni and alma mater.” It is my hope that, in this 78th year of The
Davidsonian, we have been able to accomplish some of this stated goal. One thing I can assure you of is
that we have pursued this goal earnestly and diligently.

For those of you who can harken back four years ago, you might remember what The Davidsonian once represented, a
sporadic, less than ideal publication. However, through the dedication of editors Chaudhuri, Puckett, Thompson and Smyth, the paper has been
remolded and once again has a prominent role on this campus. To those individuals, we all owe our thanks.

This year, the editorial board, in addition to serving as a voice and source for the Davidson community, sought to
expand the paper to a wider audience. It is our hope and belief that we have made strides in accomplishing
this objective. The staff is as open and diverse as it has been during my time at Davidson, yet there
is much room for improvement. I charge our successors to make staff diversity a continued goal of the paper. After
all, it is everyone’s paper, we should strive to have everyone involved.

As for my successors, Harrison Roberts and Chris Frampton, I wish you the best. Davidson is fortunate to have found
two individuals who have willingly volunteered for the daunting task of this position. I have every belief that they will
bring a lot to the continued improvement of this paper.

Finally, I want to thank many of the people who have made significant contributions to the paper over the past
year. All of the staff members' names listed above, from the section editors to the circulation staff, deserve recognition for
their work this year. Additionally, I want to thank both Dr. Gill Holland and Dean Will Terry for both their
friendship and advice this year. In particular, three individuals deserve to be singled out for their time and dedication which
enabled this paper to be produced each week. Managing Editor Sarah Gayle, Associate Editor Tom Koonce and Assistant Editor Tom
Price all gave unselfishly of their weekends and free time. Having such individuals on my staff made my job as
editor much easier. Thanks guys, it would not have been possible without you.

Walter Price
Editor in Chief

Basketball Thanks Students for Support at Home Games

To the Editor,

The Men’s basketball team sends their thanks to the loud and enthusiastic fans from the student body whose support and
encouragement has been a vital part of our very successful home stand. Since February of last season, the Belk Arena
has evolved into a significant home court advantage as we’ve managed a record of 11-2 as well as two additional
exhibition victories. Your participation in this success is clearly evident and felt by all of the players and coaches. Thanks
for giving us this terrific boost to our confidence.

Sincerely,
Men’s Basketball Players, Coaches, and Team Managers

Williams Corrects Letter

To the Editor,

The January 25 letter of Ms. Spivey and Humphrey on examinations may have confused students by suggesting thatthey do not
have to write papers or take tests the week before optional class days. This is simply inaccurate. All written work
in a class is due no later than the end of the hour of the last official class period of
the semester, optional or not. Papers may well be due during the last week of classes (optional for the faculty
to teach but not optional for the students to attend), or even earlier than that. Although the Dean each semester
encourages faculty not to give reviews during the final (optional) week of classes, this is not part of the Academic
Regulations. There is no moratorium on tests and papers in the week before the week before final examinations. I hope
this clarifies the situation. Our intent is to encourage students to work and study throughout the semester and to synthesize
material at the end; not to give them a week off before the final week of classes.

Sincerely,
Robert C. Williams
VPAA and Dean of Faculty

OPINIONS

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices
are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or
commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Hi! I’m back. I’m sorry I haven’t written lately, but I’ve been going through a Sophomore Slump. I tried to
write for the last two editions, but the inspiration just hasn’t been there. In other words, I’ve been really lazy.
The only active thing I do now is get up off the couch to change CDs or to hit the
reset button on my Sega Genesis. I couldn’t think of a topic to write an entire article on, so I’m
going to “pull a Frampton." Pulling a Frampton is rambling about random topics until you’re tired of rambling.

First, I’d like to talk about the recent suspension of Sigma Phi Epsilon. The Sig Ep’s were suspended for hurting
one of their pledges. As I heard it, they were trying to “road trip” a pledge when the incident occurred.
The pledge was taped up, and accidentally dropped on his head. He had to get nine stitches, but aside from
that, he is fine. No big deal. Right? Wrong! The College responded quickly, and suspended the Sig Ep’s indefinitely for
this horrible act. I don’t know about you, but I think this action is a bit severe. The pledge who
was hurt doesn’t think that this incident is a big deal, so why should we? The Sig Ep’s deserve a
slap on the wrist, but the suspension is ridiculous.

I'd like to talk about the Duke Blue Devils. Before Wednesday’s game, my friends who pull for North Carolina were
telling me that Duke would lose. They told me that Duke sucked because they had lost three ACC games. To
these people I have one thing to say. Great teams aren’t great all the time; they are just great when
they have to be.

Last, the Super Bowl (maybe they should change the name) was the same as always. The NFC blew out the
AFC, and Budweiser won the Bud Bowl. The only thing that bothers me about this Super Bowl is that the
Cowboys won. As I told you before, I hate the Cowboys, but that’s not what bothers me. I’m mad that
the Cowboys won because I now have to listen to all the bandwagon fans tell me about the Dallas Dynasty.
Maybe I should run out and buy a Cowboys hat like everybody else, so that everybody will leave me alone.
I’m tired of rambling. Bye.
