THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1993

Day at the lake dampened by weather
Alternative social option experiences clouds and rain
By Martha Knight

Food, music, games... but where was the sun? Despite cloudy skies, Davidson students, faculty, and staff gathered at the lake campus on Saturday, September 25, when the Union, Student Government Association, and Patterson Court Council jointly sponsored their traditional fall Day At the Lake.

This campus-wide activity allowed freshmen, upperclassmen, professors, and staff members to get to know one another better after having several weeks of adjustment to a new school year. Patterson Court Council President Julie Petty says that the event was designed to encourage social interaction in a relaxed environment free from alcohol. She says that some people do not feel comfortable with the atmosphere of Patterson Court and that this kind of day gives the entire school community the opportunity to come together and have a good time.

The choice of many activities offered something for everyone. A disc jockey entertained the crowd with music while some played volleyball, football, or water sports. Others had fun just hanging out and meeting new people while enjoying hamburgers and cold drinks. Most people agreed that the cold, cloudy weather kept many others away. Union Board member Jennifer Humphrey thinks that timing also could have contributed to the low turnout. She said that the freshmen have recently been involved in many planned activities and that this same event in the spring will give people a chance to shed their winter clothes and spend more time outside.

Although only around 100 people attended the festivities, those who did come enjoyed the day. Senior Karen Marshall admitted, “I wasn’t sure about coming because of the weather, but now that I’m here I wish more people had come.”

The Union, SGA, and PCC wish to thank all those who helped with the set-up, cooking, and clean-up. They would also like to remind everyone who missed the fun that there will be another Day at the Lake in April.

College to hold "mini" alumni weekend
By Susan Warren

This fall Davidson celebrates its twentieth year as a coed school. The weekend of October 1 and 2, the Alumni Relations Office is hosting a unique reunion of Davidson alumnae. Over 100 alumnae are planning to return to participate in this reunion. The reunion will take place all weekend, with students invited to attend Saturday’s events. The Alumni Office is anxious for students to participate, hoping to make it a learning experience for both present and past students.

A panel discussion entitled “Coeducation - Past and Present” will take place from 10-11:30 a.m. in Perkins Auditorium. There will be a round table discussion lunch in the Commons for women only. This will provide a unique experience in that students and alumnae will be assigned to tables. Multiple age groups will be present, and all are eager to hear about different experiences. If interested, please call the Alumni Office to make reservations. The cost is $7.00.

A classroom experience will be offered in Chambers at 3-4 p.m. Students may choose from any of five lectures given by faculty members: Janet Shannon, Sociology; Sally McMillen, History; Mary Thornberry, Political Science; Maurya MacNeil, Psychology; and Ruth Ault, Psychology.

Dinner will be hosted by Sherburne Laughlin, class of ‘83 and former president of the Alumni Association. Elizabeth Kiss, class of ‘83, an alumna and current professor at Harvard University, will be giving the keynote address titled “Measuring Success.”

“If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost. That is where they should be. Now put the foundations under them.” —Henry David Thoreau

Field trips Program Costs:
In Seville, Spain
Application deadlines:
1-800-342-1725
University of Wisconsin-Platteville

Learn Your Way Around The World
Study abroad in London, England or Seville, Spain, for a summer, for a semester, or for a full academic year
Courses in liberal arts and international business
Fluency in a foreign language not required
Home-stays with meals
Financial aid applies (except for summer session)
For tuition, room, board, and field trips per semester
In London, England $4,225 for Wisconsin residents/$4,475 for non-residents
In Seville, Spain $4,725 for Wisconsin residents/$4,925 for non-residents
Application deadlines:
April 1 for summer session
April 30 for fall semester
October 20 for spring semester
For a program description and an application, call toll-free:

A scholarship will be presented by alumna Carol Connor Willingham, former trustee for whom Connor House is named, to President Kuykendall to benefit a female student. The Alumni Relations Office is anxious for students to participate in the weekend so that alumnae can see how far Davidson has come.

Photo by Lisa Watson
Though inclement weather hampered Day at the Lake turnout, skies cleared for Saturday night's festivities.

Campaign kicks off in Atlanta
By Court McBryde

September 23 marked the kick-off of Davidson’s Campaign in Atlanta. Over 400 recent graduates and alumni from Georgia gathered at the Fern Bank Science Center for the occasion. The event was arranged as a cocktail buffet reception. The reception included a showing of the campaign video.anda speech given by Dr. Kuykendall. This particular function is one of a series of regional dinners. Tom Norwood, Director of Corporate Programs, explained the purpose of these dinner events is “to tell the story of the campaign and to solicit contributions from different regions.” The honorary chairperson of this function in Atlanta was Robert M. Strickland, class of ‘48. John A. Nix, class of ‘59 and C. Edward Dabbs, class of ‘71 served as co-chairs. These men were responsible for coordinating the event and soliciting contributions. Davidson College was represented by many administrators. Some attendees were: Jamie May, Director of Development and Alumni; Toby Bethea, Vice-President for Institutional Advancement; Tom Norwood; Eileen Keeley, Assistant Director of Development; and President, Dr. John Kuykendall. The Campaign for Davidson officially began in November 1989, with a resolve to raise $150,000,000 over the course of five years. To date, the Campaign has raised $123,300,000.

SPEAS discusses ethics of new health care plan

SPEAS continued from page 1

aged care’s strengths as well as economic and moral costs to serve as a backdrop for the next day’s speakers. Friday morning at 8:30, participants reconvened to hear Dr. Kenneth Shull of Lexington Medical Center’s thoughts on “The Ups, Downs, Ins and Outs of Managed Care in the ’90s: The Making or Breaking of American Health Care Institutions.” Shull addressed the major concerns of North Carolina hospitals and long-term care providers concerning recent health care reform proposals. At 10 a.m. Karen Igate with the Washington Business Group on Health examined the contents of a reasonable health care package, employers’ obligations, and employees’ rights in “Employers, Employees, and Health Care Costs: On Renegotiating Health Care Benefits Packages Equitably.” Igate was followed at 11:30 a.m. by Dr. Eric Cassell of Cornell University Medical College. Cassell addressed the issue of how health care reform will affect clinical ethics in “The Patient-Physician Relationship in the ’90s: Sacred Bond or Business Deal.” The colloquium’s final session consisted of the presentation of a case study by Cassell followed by responses from a panel composed of the four guest speakers.

The Speas Colloquium, which is held annually at Davidson College, was established by R. Dixon Speas in memory of his brother Frederick Womble Speas. Frederick Speas was a graduate of the Davidson class of ’43 whose life, foreshortened by leukemia, embodied the ideals of compassion and caring to an extraordinary degree. Each year the colloquium attempts to provide analysis and discussion of issues relevant to the provision of health care in our complex society. The colloquium was jointly sponsored by the Office of Continuing Medical Education of UNC-Chapel Hill, the Charlotte Area Health Education Center, and Davidson College. Davidson’s Dr. Lance Stell and Dr. Rosemarie Tong served as Colloquium Directors.

Tong publishes 5th book

By Mary McCrory and College Relations

Three years ago, when Professor Rosemarie Tong began writing a book on feminist medical ethics and reproductive technologies she realized that there was a greater need for a book about general feminist and feminine approaches to ethics. Her fifth book, Feminine and Feminist Ethics, is the result. The book, written in a “relaxed, jargon-free style” for both the undergraduate and the specialist, focuses on three different ethical systems: feminine, feminist, and lesbian.

The first system Tong explores is feminine ethics. This system stresses “caring as opposed to justice, and relationships as opposed to rule.” Feminine ethicists focus on networks of relationships and responsibilities. Feminist ethics, as distinct from feminine, are more politically oriented. Feminist ethicists seek the end of subordination of women, and explore the power dynamics between men and women. They consider issues of domination and subordination before issues of good and evil when making moral decisions.

Many people wince at the idea of a lesbian ethical system, but part of Tong’s goal is to clear up misunderstandings about lesbian ethics. “What is it we want ethics to do for us?” she asks, “It’s not simply about regulating our behavior. Lesbian ethicists frequently say that ethics in the West have been focused solely on rules, and have not enabled people to become their full selves. The emphasis is on freedom.” A lesbian ethical system does not focus on homosexuality as much as it does on patterns of domination and subordination. Lesbian ethicists are concerned with defining conditions of happiness for woman-centered women. They make no attempt to force their ethical system on everyone else, but instead reject the idea that ethical systems have to be all-encompassing and write for themselves. “They provide lenses to reassess traditional Western ethics. What they have been able to point out is what is lacking in the tradition. It would be a mistake to see lesbian ethics as a complete rejection of traditional ethics because they are simply asking what is missing,” Tong explains.

According to Professor Tong, students should read this book “for the same reason anyone should read a book that will challenge them to look at different ideas and otherness that they might want to incorporate in their own world.”