THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1993

Menkhaus Continued from page 1

Six panel members advocated US intervention. They concluded that since anarchy broke out with the government’s collapse in 1990, which
led to the subsequent famine, some military might was the most likely means of installing enough order to halt the
looting and fighting. By 1992, “fighting over territory ceased to matter,” Menkhaus said, because all that remained in Somalia was
food relief. Consequently, food became power and the rival factions turned their attention to areas of food entry, storage, and
transport. Even if the United Nations or any relief agency had been able to forge an agreement with factions, the
constant threat of the numerous teenage bandits would thwart any safety guarantees.

At the time Menkhaus and his fellow members decided that intervention would be most successful, the State Department adamantly opposed
the idea. Yet one month later “something dramatic happened,” as Menkhaus recalled, because President Bush was moving ahead with intervention.
While the reasons for Bush’s decision remain unclear, Somalia did provide a unique area of military intervention where the risks
and costs would be low and the yields could prove quite high.

Since November, the short-term intervention goal to stop the famine has generally been successful, with food relief reaching deep into
the country where starvation is far worse than expected. The long-term U.S. and U.N. goals of national reconciliation and the
establishment of a Somali government make Menkhaus less hopeful. According to Menkhaus, the goals themselves are bona fide, but the
current talk of U.S. military removal threatens any chance for further progress. The only force the Somalis respect is the
United States military, and to establish a non-shooting U.N. unit alone would provoke a political quagmire. Instead, Menkhaus proposed, they
should “blur the lines” between U.S. and U.N. forces to the point where the people no longer know the difference
between the two.

The other main threat to progress is the United States’ and United Nations’ recognition of the country’s various warlords as
its main political leaders. Not only are these “slugs” not interested in brokering peace, they are incapable of it, said
Menkhaus. A more feasible governing group would be the community leaders, or “silent majority,” whose voices are only just beginning
to reemerge. The intervention allowed these Muslim clerics, teachers, doctors, and local organizers to feel safe. If the U.S. goes
ahead with removal, these possible leaders will return to hiding and the warlords and teenagers will remain in control.

Even without these policy mistakes, Menkhaus sees Somalia looming dangerous. It is a country of vendettas, where blood compensation remains
the norm. Also, these teenagers are only trying to survive and will need substantial economic rationale to induce them to
lay down their arms. Menkhaus believes that it would be impossible to disarm the Somali population, but if the United
States would patrol more, its military threat would force people to bury their guns.

Menkhaus concluded his talk by stating that he is “cautiously optimistic” about Somalia’s future. If the community leaders can force
enough pressure on the country, then the hopes of restoring government is a better possibility. The Somalis are an entrepreneurial
people, he noted, and given the opportunity could reconstruct their nation.

NCSL Continued from page 2

Tempore of the House, Mary Randolph ’95 as a bill author in the House, Seth McLaughlin ’93 and Kyle Kinner
’93 in the House, and by two freshmen, Brian Frances and Kate Laidlaw, who will serve in the Senate. Any
other NCSL members who wish to attend will serve in the House of Representatives and on Bill Committees.

The Davidson Bill is a constitutional amendment to allow greater religious freedom under the North Carolina document, which contains a
clause permitting an elected official to be disqualified from office for “denying the existence of Almighty God.” In the bill,
co-authored by Kirkland and Randolph,That clause is stricken because they believe it to be discriminatory and unconstitutional under the federal
constitution. Other bill topics include limiting terms for NC legislators, banning abortions in NC, environmental protection measures, year-long schools, and
establishing bifurcated trials for insanity. “I expect debate to be heated, especially concerning abortion - I hope it is intelligent
and well-researched as well,” said Kirkland. “Above all, our purpose is to learn the process, not just rail at each
other.”

No matter whether these measures pass or fail, it will be an exciting week for the Davidson students who fight
it out on the floor of the Old Capital chambers. In an effort to include the Davidson campus in their
activities, the NCSL is planning a schoolwide debate on term limits to be held early in February. The exact date
and time will be advertised on flyers. The proposition up for debate is worded positively, stating that term limits of
four terms for Representatives and two terms for Senators should be imposed. Many voters endorsed term limits during the election
in November; the measure passed in all fourteen states in which it was on the ballot. Consequently, the topic is
sure to impact our government in the near future.

Given the importance of the topic, the NCSL hopes that many students and professors will turn out to debate one
another. Not only will everyone benefit from hearing different views on what is best for our government, but those attending
the Legislative Session in March will get practice debating under the rules of the House of Representatives of the Student
Legislature. The Davidson delegation meets in the Wilson Room of the Union every Tuesday night at 8:30 to debate and
get organized for Session. Any student or faculty member who is interested in what these students do to represent Davidson
in the state is encouraged to join, especially if they have any interest in law, research, or debate. NCSL is
a chartered, funded organization at Davidson, and most of the delegation’s budget goes to pay for Session, which is $95
per student. The state-wide organization will meet at Guilford College January 29-31 to debate resolutions, and again in February at
UNC-Chapel Hill. At Guilford, the NCSL will debate several topics including banning smoking in all public areas in NC, education
reform, and making March Women’s History Month.

Who's Continued from page 1 is an important way for Davidson to recognize its many diverse leaders, including people who
may not meet the more specific requirements of qualification for other honor societies. Davidson students selected for Who’s Who are:
Sam Adams, Carla Badgett, Tracy Barwick, Andrew Bazemore, Jennifer Brown, Matt Bumstead, Sara Carlson, Cliff Castelloe, Joe Cook, Laura Cunningham,
Carla Davis, Kelly Davis, Elizabeth Ford, Anthony Foxx, Michelle Graham, Brad Griffin, Leigh Hamrick, Davina Hayes, Rob Hughes, Rebecca Hunter,
Tom Koonce, Erin Lee, Athan Lindsay, Chris Malanuk, Laura Malenas, May Martin, Catherine Milligan, Deidra Montague, Zama Neff, Tom Price,
Walter Price, Sarah Sadowski, Andrew Spainhour, Steven Summer, Machelle Sweeting, Grey Timberlake, Ann Todd, Catherine Turner, Alan Verm, Jennifer Wagner,
David Wang, Benjamin Wiley, and David Wright. Additionally, Rob Ukrop was elected in 1991-92.

(The Davidsonian)

$3.75 ALL SHOWS BEGINNING BEFORE 6PM

MOVIES at THE LAKE

“ASPEN EXTREME" (PG-13) 3:10, 5:15, 7:20, 9:25

Walt Disney's Aladdin (G) 3:20, 5:00, 6:40, 8:20

“BODY OF EVIDENCE" (R) 3:05, 5:10, 7:15, 9:20

“NOWHERE TO RUN" (R) 3:10, 5:10, 7:10, 9:10

Children of the Corn II (R) 3:10, 5:15, 7:20, 9:25

SHOW TIMES FOR TODAY ONLY! ALL STEREO SOUND

Heart's Desire... Remember your Valentines with cards, stuffed toys, frames, and novelties from The Village Store. We have a large
selection of heart-felt gifts and will be happy to wrap your purchases for free, and provide shipping service. Valentine's Day
is Sunday, February 14. 110 South Main Street. Davidson Historical Site

SCENT OF A WOMAN 3:15, 7:30 Mon.-Fri 9:30
