NEWS 4 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, MARCH 8, 1993

Briefs

Condoms Get Rated

DEKALB, Ill. (CPS) - Northern Illinois University’s health center distributed 35,000 condoms to be judged by students for “appearance, sensualness/comfort,
smell, taste, lubrication and sense of security,” but not everyone was pleased by The Great Condom Rating Contest. Health officials
said the Feb. 22-26 event was supposed to promote safe sex and AIDS awareness. But the critics said it simply
promoted behavior that spreads disease and charged that the contest literature may have misrepresented the condom failure rate among college-age
users.

The free condom packages distributed by the Health Services Department included seven different brands and types packed with a questionnaire
and a folder on the proper use of condoms. “We copied the idea directly from Stanford,” said contest coordinator Michael
Haines of Health Services. “The contest provides feedback so we can find out student preferences, while we give them educational
materials discussing risks.” Haines said that free condoms, paid for by student health fees, have been available for the past
five years. Students can find them in fishbowls at health centers, Greek halls, and residence halls. “The contest helps us
find out which condoms students prefer, which helps us ensure greater usage,” Haines said.

Government Suspended

TUSCALOOSA, Ala. (CPS) - The Student Government Association at the University of Alabama was suspended by the administration after a
female candidate was attacked in her home. The attack, combined with the political influence of a secretive student group run
by the university’s 27 fraternities and sororities, forced officials to suspend elections and close down the SGA until “such time
as our students can be assured that the methods and procedures for electing a Student Government Association are free, fair
and open,” President Roger Sayers said in a statement.

Minda Riley, a junior and a candidate for an SGA seat, was hit in the face by a man who
entered her home on January 31, said university spokesman Keith Ayers. A cross was burned in her front yard in
November, officials said. Riley is white. On February 1, Sayers, on the recommendation of Vice President Harry Knopke, suspended the
February 10 election and the SGA. The SGA functions are now under the university president’s office.

Harvard Students Enjoy Gourmet Fare

CAMBRIDGE, Mass. (CPS) - Harvard University students can enjoy gourmet meals from fine restaurants this spring - without ever leaving
campus. Under Dining Services’ new “visiting chefs” program, executive chefs from about six Boston-area restaurants will plan and oversee one
dinner in a designated dining hall, The Harvard Gazette reported. The series of dinners will begin March 23, and students
must make reservations for each meal.

Michael Berry, director of Dining Services, cooked up the visiting chefs program after reading an April Fools’ issue of The
Harvard Crimson shortly after he arrived on campus two years ago. The spoof announced that Berry had hired a celebrated
Los Angeles restaurateur to plan dining hall meals. “I walked into my office (the day the paper came out), and
people on my staff were all upset,” Berry said. “But I thought, ‘That is a clever idea.’”

Coed House Hopes to Offer Alternative on Patterson Court

New Members Hope to Create a House That Stresses Individuality Instead of Typical Conformity

By Heather Flint & Paul Tong

Students on campus are organizing a coed eating house for next semester and we want to share our goals for
the house with the Davidson community. First of all, we want to create a house where men and women can
be together in order to foster healthy relationships between the sexes and improve male/female relations. We want to create a
house that will provide a social setting for its members, a place to hang out after class where you will
be assured of running into your friends. We want to create a house that...stresses individuality instead of conformity, a house
where anybody can feel welcome and free to be oneself. Because of the nature of coed eating houses, we want
to stress the fact that we will be non-discriminatory. Anyone is welcome to join. Another important reason for this house
is food - good food. We’ve come up with many ideas for our menu, ranging from ethnic foods to Mom’s
Recipe Night where each member contributes a favorite recipe from home to be cooked on a designated night. We also
want to provide nutritious and palatable meal options for vegetarians.

We realize that seniors may want to eat some meals in their apartments and that other students might want to
continue eating some meals at the Commons. In order to accommodate those students, we are hoping to offer meal plan
flexibility where members can contract to eat only certain meals at the house. We also intend to serve meals on
the weekends. We will have additional money for better meal service from our preliminary decision to be a dry house.
Alcohol will be limited to B.Y.O. status. We wish to do this for many reasons. First of all, we want
the focus of our parties to be friends and fun, not alcohol. We want to create an atmosphere conducive to
conversation. We also don’t want to force non-drinking members of our house to pay for alcohol they don’t consume. As
far as the decision to drink, the cost and responsibility will lay with the individual.

We want to keep our house in good condition so that it will be a place where we enjoy being,
whether it be for studying, eating, or socializing. We want this house to be your home-away-from-home. Besides providing money for
better meals, by not using house money for alcohol and paying for an expensive liquor license, we will have more
money for our social activities. That means we will have more money for house-sponsored trips, activities, and purchases for our
house.

Another idea we have is to create an environmental house, a house that uses real dinnerware, not disposable dishes and
cups. We recognize that the plastic cups used at parties on campus are an environmental nightmare and we intend to
use only paper cups - no plastic or styrofoam - when members don’t bring cups of their own. We want
to be the forerunner in environmentalism on Patterson Court. We really want this house to work and hope the student
body at Davidson supports us in this endeavor.

We cannot stop drinking or loving the preferred gender. To try and do so would be ridiculous. Davidson needs a
place for men and women to meet and talk. A place where healthy relationships and responsible drinking are actively encouraged.
But where is this place?

Although it does not yet exist, a new coed house is in the early stages of formation. Currently, the house
has no charter and no statement of purpose. The house doesn’t even have any members. You, however, have a chance
to discuss what a new house should be, what its goals should aspire towards, and to join others in the
pursuit of equality and fun.

The organizational meeting for a new coed house will be in the UNION OUTPOST beginning at 7:00 PM, Wednesday, the
10th. Faculty, students, and staff are encouraged to join in the planning. Refreshments provided.
