10 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1993

Stephen Faller

Women seen as sexual peripherals.

Two weeks ago, there was a great reaction to David Kaylor’s objections to the phone directory cover. The directory seems to be a shut case. Kaylor was offended, and he wrote in, and that’s fine. Whether he’s right or wrong is controversial (although he does have some interesting points on the issue, anyone interested should talk to him). Kaylor’s concern, though, is very acute. The cause for his concern is not what makes a good directory, but what about the way our campus treats women. The answer to this is sad. Behind the masks of both traditional chivalry and modern pop-feminism, the women of Davidson are treated as sub-human. In the case of the former, they are expected to be prudish and proper, but eventually give into some kind of “hooking.” In the case of the latter, they are expected to have an equal shot at enjoying the age-old double standard.

It is necessary to clarify the last claim. Although political-correctness is despicable to me, my comment was not intended to be anti-feminist. Every self-respecting woman I know is a feminist of sorts. Rather, I am referring to the “Thelma & Louise” phenomenon, where one’s best response to centuries of sexual injustice is not anything higher than a fair (and pathetic) shot at all the stupid things men have done. Anyway, in both cases women are too often seen as sexual peripherals — little more than ways of relieving tension — but this is all under the table, isn’t it? A little joke here, a remark there, but it’s all pretty shameful.

Exhibit “A.” Not to be out-done by the rumors of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Phi Epsilon printed the poster next to this article. Quite different from what women saw. It didn’t appear where women would see it, but the women of Connor, and Davidson women in general, should know what is expected of them and how they are advertised. It only appeared on the insides of mens’ bathroom stalls. Of course, the fact that the woman is falling out of her clothes means nothing; no one would ever insinuate anything. Perhaps it wouldn’t be so offensive if the perpetrators had had the courage and sense of responsibility to put the thing out where everyone could see it. What makes this more sad is that whoever designed this was only trying to be funny. But it wasn’t. It was thoughtless and demeaning, and thoughtlessness is everything.

SPE is not the only guilty party. I'm not trying to single groups out. This is a campus problem. Just ask a KS about those "Beav Reports." Although they are jokes, I still don't think the women would appreciate them. Or consider that during my freshman year I was presented with the opportunity of joining KA and performing cunnilingus on their back porch, or being in my room, left only to my studies (studies are for what we came here). It’s not just a court problem either. My freshman experience as an independent indoctrinated me to such phrases as: “15 will get you 20” [Editors’ note: and other, more graphic, phrases which we choose not to print]. Or perhaps consider the whole notion of the Wildcat Handbook as a “Meatbook.” Surely the freshman women like being thought of as meat. Surely that’s why they pay so much money to come here.

Again, this too is part of the greater malaise I have referred to in earlier columns. I truly think that a lot of people are discontent here. Because they are discontent, they need to find ways of relaxing, taking it easy, and otherwise escaping from Davidson scholastic monotony. Sex becomes a great outlet. And what else are women for? Wrong. Kaylor’s notion of how people think of women is close to the mark. This is screwed up, folks.

So, the powers that be recognize that something is wrong with the Davidson social atmosphere, and they hire union consultants to come in and try to make things better. A noble cause, but it’s going to take more than consultants-ex-machina to save the day. They suggest three unions, but that won’t get to the root of the problem. The problem is not that there is one union, or that we are crying out for the college to give us something to do (as the editors think). The problem is that students are looking to be entertained. They are looking to others to make life exciting for them. They are looking everywhere, ranging from the opposite sex to the college itself.

To wrap up, there are some major social problems here. We all realize that, but I don’t think that we should invest more money in “social resources” until we fix the problems we have. That’s just throwing good after bad. The campus’ view of women is part of the problem, and I suggest that those powers that be take a good look at how important it is to “be of good character and conduct” to graduate from Davidson. That requirement is becoming farcical in the face of the sexism and racism. I don’t like that. Davidson has a core of integrity, and that core should either be upheld or abandoned, or it will be ruined.

If you ask anybody anywhere in the world how they are doing, they are going to answer, without thinking because they do not have to, “fine.” Unless you are in a part of the world where they speak a different language. Then they will probably just stare at you with a dumb look on their face. However, if you ask a Davidson student, “How are you doing,” he or she will probably answer, without thinking because they’re not being graded, “tired.” Unless they are really tired, then they will probably do that dumb look on the face thing. But the point is, someone’s tired. But what does that mean? There are so many different kinds of fatigue that you just can’t be satisfied with the one-word response, “tired.” Delve deeper. Find the truth, man! What kind of tired are they? Let me give you a more specific list from which to choose. (Check out the grammar in that last sentence. Pretty impressive, huh?)

First, foremost, and most common is the brand of fatigue that I call “the Pigpen syndrome.” It’s just sort of always hanging around, following you, like that cloud of dust around Charlie Brown’s friend, Pigpen. It gets to where you don’t even notice it after a while. But even if you do not feel tired, in the back of your head, you know you are. What I am trying to say is, if the chance for a nap comes, you’re there. From here, though, the whole fatigue thing kind of branches out. There is the kind that you feel first in the back of your head, sort of squeezing you right below the ear level. Then it slowly spreads, working its way...over your baseball cap down to your forehead. From there it will inevitably creep down, down, down, finally forcing your eyelids shut. It cannot be stopped. I call this "The Blob Variety."

The kind afflicting me at the moment is “Type ACME.” You’ve had it, too. “Type ACME” just teeters back and forth above your eyebrows, like the anvils that Wile E. Coyote used to order from ACME to drop on the Roadrunner. It is just waiting to drop, ready to crush you into an oblivion of sleep. This kind is very dangerous in a class where the teacher often uses an overhead projector. I remember a geometry teacher from high school who used the overhead every day. Foolish woman. Every time she turned off the lights, down came the anvil. She might as well have given me one of those red and blue folding mats like we used in kindergarten.

One of my least favorite kinds of fatigue is the “Insidious Tiredity.” I am not sure if insidious is the word that I want here, but I really like the sound of it and try to put it in something I write at least once a month. And I know that “tiredity” is not a word, but it’s cool to make up words once in a while. So I did. But I digress. “Insidious Tiredity” just kind of sneaks up on you, like something really quiet, and then pops you on the chin when you least expect it. So when you are walking along with a friend, just talking and laughing in a real lively sort of way, and one of them just announces out of the indigo (a cousin of blue that sort of feels left out sometimes), “whoa, I just got tired,” you know what hit ‘em. And you can tell them what it’s called, as long as you give me credit.

I have also heard people talk about some sort of physical fatigue. I really would not know anything about that, unless that’s what I feel after walking up the hill to Chambers, carrying all those heavy books. But for now, that kind will remain nameless, pending more research.

On the other hand (if you look real quick you can spot it. Damn, too late) I am much more familiar with the version of fatigue known simply as “The Davidson Strain.” This all-too-common kind comes from one too many all-nighters. Which would be one. But isn’t this the best kind? It is almost fun, those five a.m. cravings for Frosted Mini-Wheats. (Please tell me I’m not alone in this.) You look at people that you have known for three years and do not even recognize them. That’s cool. You sit through an entire lecture before you realize that you were in the wrong class, and that there was no lecture. The radio is on 101.9 and you don’t even change the channel. You get the news before anybody else because Charlie Slagle hand-delivers your newspaper at 5:30 a.m. You might be naked, you just can’t tell. You forget what color your hair is. You ponder ways to set up a Mello Yello IV that gets the caffeine straight into your bloodstream. But don’t worry, you’ll do just fine on that paper or test.

So, the next time somebody asks you how you are doing, qualify your answer instead of just giving the standard Davidson answer: "tired." Tell the interested party just what kind of tired you are. They’ll thank you for it. I’m going to go take a nap.

Susan Beale

Dealing with rejection and betrayal.

Have you ever been rejected or betrayed by someone you respected and trusted? I am positive that over 99% of those reading this article could answer in the affirmative to that question. For that 1% of lucky readers who have never had such a disheartening experience, you should thank your unusually lucky fate. For the rest of us, betrayal and disillusionment is sadly enough, a normal aspect of life.

Do you remember the first time you caught your “best friend” in grade school talking behind your back? Can you recall the first time your huge crush showed interest in someone else? Can you still remember the hurt and anguish you felt when someone you dated cheated on you? Did you ever have an authority figure whom you greatly admired and respected let you down? All of these situations are, unfortunately, aspects of everyday human experience.

Very recently I too was disillusioned by someone whom I greatly admired: my high school choir director. He had a likable personality and tremendous talent. Though he arrived at my school when I was a junior, I still got to know him fairly well before I graduated. I knew he was a single man, but it never crossed my mind that any students might be in any way threatened by him. I received, however, some shocking news last spring that my old teacher had been accused of sodomy and rape of a 15-year-old male student. At the time, he pleaded innocent and many students and parents of the community were outraged with the “preposterous” charges. I too wanted desperately to believe that he actually was innocent of these charges. It was not until recently that he finally pleaded guilty and last week was sentenced to five years in jail. It is almost unbelievable that someone who was an influential part of my high school life could be capable of abusing his powers to corrupt a young and innocent boy.

Events like these could easily lead a person to become pessimistic, distrusting, and wary of putting too much faith in the goodness of humans. It would be very easy to place one more brick on a wall separating you from others. It may surprise you, but I still believe that we cannot ever become too distrustful of others. How can I still maintain such a positive attitude? I feel that we simply have no hope of relating to others if we cannot trust them. I believe that all relationships must be based on faith and trust. Yes, we may be hurt again. Yes, we will probably be betrayed again, but envision the results of what would happen if we never trusted our neighbor: relationships would fail, we would constantly be paranoid that someone was deceiving us, and we would go through life with a chip on our shoulder.

I am not, however, advocating that we should blindly trust every person we meet. Obviously, we must be wary of people who want to deceive or mislead us, but we should not be governed by our paranoia of rejection and betrayal. I have to admit I was hurt and disillusioned by the choices my choir director made. I have learned to realize though, that no one is perfect and everyone will make mistakes — some will be bigger than others. Though it may sound somewhat naive, I'll continue to think the best of people until they prove me wrong.