RTS _ MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1993

Still Whistlin' Dixie

Country music comes in the mail

By Geoff Graham

I no longer have a car. After a hundred and fifty thousand miles of faithful service, over dirt, gravel, mud,
and maybe some asphalt, my little darlin’ collapsed. I tried to nurse her back, but my well ran dry. It
breaks my heart that something as petty as money could be the only factor separating two souls so deeply devoted
to each other. Someone with the means to save her battered engine offered and, for her sake, I couldn’t refuse.
I had to let her go. It was the worst day of my summer. I loved the poor thing and
I can only hope her new owner is as kind and forgiving as I tried to be. In any case,
I no longer have a car.

This makes it extremely difficult to acquire new CDs. What’s that you say? The Book Store? Oh, I know they’ve
got some great albums, but I already own the Country one. I’m left with two options: the radio or a
CD club. Considering my roommate’s tuner works only on the third Tuesday of each month, I’ve opted for the latter.

If you haven’t joined BMG yet, get your tail in gear. The introductory incentive is eight CDs for the price
of one with no further obligation. After that, you can usually buy two or three for a total of just
fifteen bucks, still without obligation. If you never pay, they don’t even yell at you! They simply stop letting you
buy stuff. The only problem is it takes six to ten weeks for delivery.

I just received Dwight Yoakam’s “new” one yesterday, and though it may be six to ten weeks late, I thought
I’d let y’all know how the boy’s doing. Well, sad to say, he’s gone downhill since his break-up with Sharon
Stone. This Time is nowhere near the calibre of his If There Was A Way. It’s obvious Dwight is capable
of a lot more. The song-writing ability that produced “I Sang Dixie,” “It Only Hurts When I Cry,” and “The
Heart That You Own” is still there somewhere, he’s just heartbroken. Can you blame him?

There are a few songs worth mentioning, however. “Ain’t That Lonely Yet” has been on the radio (my radio at
home works). It’s another vindictive song in the tradition of “You’re the One.” Here Dwight sings his best lyrics of
the album. Ironically, it’s the only one he didn’t write. “Lonesome Roads” is a true cowboy tune. Simple lyrics follow
a slow flat-picking rhythm. It belongs on a lonely trail somewhere. “Two Doors Down” is another sad drinkin’ song that’s
not hard to like. “Try Not to Look So Pretty,” the best song on the...

See Dwight on page 13

Textured, abstract canvases set Jackson apart

By Carey Thompson

Before I walked into the Van Every Gallery in the Visual Arts Center, I had an idea of what to
expect, knowing each of the three entirely different styles of artwork, but not how the art would look together. What
I observed was a show which works incredibly well, from Herb Jackson’s large, textured, abstract canvases to Russ Warren’s energetic,
narrative canvases, to Cort Savage’s kinetic and audible sculptures. According to Jackson, “the issue of quality is what binds them
together.” Warren made a similar comment that the common bond for the show was each of the artist’s particular “attention
to craft.”

Jackson’s work is the most familiar to me as a result of my internship at the Jerald Melberg Gallery. This
summer, I observed several other American artists represented by Melberg. This experience gave me a strong sense of the visual
world which Jackson creates in his canvases, oil crayon drawings, monoprints, and etchings. A great deal of up-close examination led
me to an understanding of the careful crafting which he puts into his work. Every time I ran into a
Jackson this summer, I stopped at the familiar style to find out what his work was about through each new
and different image.

For those who are unfamiliar with his work, Jackson’s paintings may at first appear abstract and unreadable. The longer a
viewer looks, however, the more shapes and forms emerge through the color differentiation to become readable visual language. The monumental
canvases in the show, especially Vulcan’s Gate, have so much power in them that I felt I was looking into
another world which at any moment might have allowed me to step into it.

A tension occurs between texture and the visual space in Jackson’s paintings. The textured marks of the scraped surface suggesting
a three-dimensional landscape are but one aspect of these canvases. This result occurs due to the scraped surface of 50
to 100 layers of paint which sometimes has mica or pumice added to it. Colors and shapes create tension between
positive and negative space; they show whether particular areas can be read as foreground and background or can participate on
the same plane.

What to me is visually stimulating about Jackson’s canvases is the play of complementary colors in layers against each other,
the shapes that disappear and reappear, and the overall sense of depth and texture. His work daily among the work
of...

Photo by Amy Laukkanen

Herb Jackson puts the finishing touches on one of his works. Other art pieces created by the Davidson professor are
part of the faculty display in the VAC.Review "True Romance" By Scott McLean

You know, every once in a while a movie comes along that you’re not able to make heads or tails
of, and I have to say that this week’s featured flick pulled a number on me. While “True Romance” is
a fairly straightforward film, I left the theater feeling more loopy than a Sheri curl. This is the second effort
from writer/director Quentin Tarantino whose last film “Reservoir Dogs” caused quite a buzz throughout Hollywood (I haven’t seen this one,
but after “Romance” I must admit that my interest is aroused). Perhaps the peculiarity of my experience with “True Romance”
was the fact that Tarantino did not direct his own script this time out... or maybe I was just tired,
who knows?

Anyway, here’s the deal: Christian Slater is Clarence Worley, a mega Elvis fan who meets his “true love” Alabama (Patricia
Arquette) at a kung-fu movie marathon and marries her the next day. As it turns out, Alabama is a hooker
who is itching (I ain’t gonna touch this pun) to get away from her pimp Drexel (Gary Oldman), a gun-toting,
drug-crazed psycho with mob connections. When Clarence goes to inform Drexel that Alabama will no longer be his employee, he
ends up offing the pimp and accidentally steals a suitcase full of cocaine. The two then make a run for
California to get rid of the drugs with the mob in full pursuit. What ensues is one part “Thelma and
Louise,” one part “Raising Arizona,” and two parts “Midnight Run.” You may think that with elements of all these hit
films combined into one movie it would be just too cool for words, but the reality is a mini-mash which
you are either going to love or hate.

Don’t get me wrong—Slater and Arquette are in top form and the cameos by Dennis Hopper, Christopher Walken, Brad Pitt,
Bronson Pinchot, and Val Kilmer are all excellent. If that isn’t enough, the shootout scene at the end is one
of the best I’ve ever seen, but in the end it really is a coin toss. Scott says watch and
judge for yourselves—there’s sex, guns, and love, and if one of those doesn’t turn you on then I guess you’re
just out of luck. Y’all stay tuned now, ‘cause things will be getting interesting on the film front in the
next couple of weeks, but until then, take care and see you at the movies!

Know anything about graphics? Call -2148

Emerge within the thick surface, those which move on and off the edge of the canvas, the contrasting organic and
static shapes, and small lines and large forms playing off each other. This amazing variation leads the viewer into the
painting and one can view it on a different level every time one observes it. From every angle, there is
an aspect which holds the attention of the eye. For example, in Anchor, the strong solid flatness of the dark
blue is juxtaposed with the dancing, fiery red-orange shapes and the fluid rhythm in the turquoise. Strong, solid, weighty shapes
of dark blue contrast with shapes such as the elegant thin green curve, cutting across the upper portion of the
painting, which leads the eye into yet another area of the picture plane. In some areas recognizable images seem to
emerge and then recede into a relation with other shapes, disappearing into another level within the picture plane. Pictures within
pictures are created in the varying sizes of the marks on the canvas and in the paint on planes of
color. The eye moves from one shape to the next—what could be a small picture in itself expands as a
part of a larger form, until the whole canvas is viewed in totality. Each varyingly textured area has its own
intensity, and at the same time all are interrelated to form the whole—like mentally putting together a visual puzzle.

Jackson’s canvases are “indeterminate in terms of thematic content.” The titles suggest some type of story is related to the
paintings; however, a painting emerges out of the process—from events that happen over weeks and months while he is working
on it. The paintings “are really about creating new entities, not about telling a story.” Dark Angel, for example, was
a response to the Gulf War. The visual dimension Jackson creates cannot be put into words; it is another form
of communication which is above and beyond verbal description. Jackson seems to use a language of his own to communicate
visually with the viewer through the canvas. No blatantly apparent figurative elements or emotions bounce off the canvas, but a
type of serene, powerful, steady communication occurs with the viewer in this visual experience.

The show is a reflection of the diversity of Davidson’s studio art faculty. Jackson views the diversity of each of
the three types of artwork as “really like points of a triangle,” the idea behind the faculty’s diversity—that each student
will feel “there is someone he or she can relate to aesthetically.” The work provides a sense of what each
of the artists is about. Each professor’s work is strong on its own, and at the same time does not
disrupt the power of the others’ in the show. As a whole, the exhibit reveals the differing approaches of each
artist to different visual problems, and attests to Davidson’s exceptional faculty.
