OPINIONS _ MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1993 - 4

Jerry Stockdale, Dir. College Relations

It was only a joke, not a negative joke. I was dismayed to read David Kaylor’s letter in last week’s
Davidsonian regarding the cover art for the new Telephone Directories, and at first, I was not sure how to respond.
Since then, I have also heard scattered reports that others around campus are either upset or confused by the image
or have labeled it “sexist” and “insulting.” Therefore, I feel compelled to explain the cover artwork and our reasons for
producing it.

First, let me say that I wish I could take credit for the cover concept, but, alas, I can’t. That
credit rightly goes to Mike Van Hecke in our office, whose idea was to pay tribute to 20 years of
coeducation at Davidson and to the opening of the new Visual Arts Center by doing a cover illustration in the
style of Roy Lichtenstein, a major figure in the Pop Art style of the sixties and early seventies. Mike is
a fan of Pop Art in general and Lichtenstein in particular. Although I am hardly an art historian, I came
of age in the late sixties and I think I know enough to say that Pop Art was a deliberate
parody of popular imagery that used comic book images to deal with serious subjects. One effect was to jar you
out of looking at images passively and to make you rethink what those images really say. What better time to
rethink our images of women than at the occasion of the 20th anniversary of coeducation at Davidson? And what a
nice coincidence that Pop Art was in vogue precisely when Davidson was struggling with the issue of admitting women. Serendipitous,
I thought.

So, Mike proposed it (including the punchline about “Sam”), I liked it and gave it the green light. We hired
a friend to do the illustration, Mr. Errol “Gib” Gibson, a retired graphic designer and college art teacher who lives
in Cornelius and frequently does freelance work for us. I am pleased for the opportunity to give Gib public credit
for his fine work. “Sam” in the cartoon balloon is a reference to former Davidson President Sam Spencer, who was
instrumental in bringing coeducation to Davidson. He knew nothing about the cover before we published the directory, but was flattered
by the reference to him and now has a framed copy of the cover hanging on his wall at home.

In sum, what was our intent in publishing this image? It’s a joke, a visual pun, delivered with tongue planted
firmly in cheek and a friendly wink of the eye (assuming that is not considered a sexist gesture).

Contextual Interpretation

Having said that, I must admit that it is also more than a joke. There is something much more serious
at stake here — images are important and it does make a difference how we portray ourselves. And I am
interested in the particular issue of how women are portrayed in our society. But it is important to look at
images with a little more care and reflection and not stop with initial knee-jerk reactions. It seems to me that
in viewing images, we interpret them in light of context, or rather in light of many overlapping contexts. At the
most basic level of context, we placed the illustration alongside the logo for the 20th anniversary of coeducation. What we
meant by this simple juxtaposition was to say that this cover is a tribute to coeducation at Davidson. But this
cover is contextually more complex than that. The illustration is done in the Pop Art style. How many people would
know that? I have no idea how visually literate this campus is. Would one out of ten people recognize the
allusion? Five out of ten? Nine out of ten? I still don’t know. So we decided to include credit lines
on the inside front cover explaining the tribute to Roy Lichtenstein.

See Jerry continued on page 12

Free Association: Will Lazenby

Chip away what bothers you.

Over fall break I had an insightful conversation with a good friend. Sidney lives on Long Boat Key, a secluded
key near Sarasota in central Florida. He is a very down-to-earth man, a man who speaks his mind with authority
and sometimes a little obnoxiousness. It was in his usual manner that he answered my questions about his trade, sculpting.
I asked him to tell me how to sculpt, and he replied, “Sure, kid, you just take a rock, and
bang the hell out of it with a chisel.” Typical Sidney answer. Then, with what I can only call sagacity,
he said, “Really, you look at the rock, and then you chip away what bothers you.” Without realizing it, Sid
had said something very heavy. We’re given this big rock, called life. And once we realize the possibil-Here is the
cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

In our hands, we chip away. Hopefully, this is not a random, haphazard act, but one undertaken with the most
meticulous and careful action. Most of us, however, aren’t too careful with this rock. The chisel does not chip away
what bothers us, but often it mars that very idea we are trying to attain, the sculpture we are trying
to create. Parents and professors help to guide our strokes, but sometimes their advice goes unheeded, or, worse, their words
set the chisel again at the wrong angle.

Talking further, Sidney said that his inspiration can come from anywhere, whether it be a poem, an idea, or even
a comment or conversation he overheard. Once realized, though, he focuses totally on that inspiration, working unceasingly until that idea
has been brought from within the rock by his hands. It is this same kind of focus that makes for
a good life. Sticking to what you know is right comes only with powerful concentration, and, of course, the knowledge
that something is right. A sculptor doesn’t just begin on a whim. There is a definite goal, a premeditated something
that he is trying to capture. But that something is already within the rock. The artist simply brings it out.

Where your beliefs come from is not so important as your adherence to them. If a poem strikes a chord
in you, makes visible a truth to you, then you are aware of that something within you that you need
to bring out. You have been given a direction. Keeping that direction is the difficult part. Later that evening, Sidney
confided to my family and me that he too was still laboring over his “life sculpture,” so to speak. He
just celebrated his eighty-second birthday. Keep chipping.

~~~ ~-~~ ~~

Susan Beale

Why am I a senior?

Why am I a senior when last week I was a freshman? I don't mean that literally, but many times
I feel that time has moved so quickly that I could not possibly be in my fourth year at Davidson.
As a senior, I am forced to view life differently than I did when I was a freshman. In many
aspects, I actually enjoy my life better as a senior. At this point in my college career, I know what
I need to do to survive academically at Davidson, and find pleasure in the close friendships I have developed over
the past four years.

You may ask why I am suddenly becoming reminiscent about college life. There actually is a justification for this article:
at Homecoming last weekend, I spoke with many old friends who are now in the “real world.” Last year many
of these alumni were dancing on tables at parties, making road trips and hanging out with their best friends, but
this year they must play the role of mature adults. ADULTS?!?!?!? They don’t LOOK like adults!!! I don’t look like
an adult!! I don’t feel like an adult. As a child I believed that adults were old people with grey
hair who worried about rheumatism and dentures. Though I am already considered by the government to be a legal adult,
until graduation I won’t have to actually play this role. (Thank goodness I still have a few more years before
I have to worry about receiving Senior Citizen discounts).

Though I may sound a bit worried about aging, I know I will survive. I am not claiming that I
am incapable of entering the adult world, but my biggest fear about life after graduation is facing the uncertainty. The
economy is at such a state that even as graduates from a prestigious college, we have no solid guarantees about
our future. I spoke with intelligent alumni students last weekend who were quite successful at Davidson but are now waiting
tables or working at stores simply because they cannot find a job with a good salary.

At Davidson, our biggest concerns seem to be going to classes, writing papers, studying for tests, calling Domino’s before they
close at midnight, and getting a beer at Patterson Court before the police shut down the parties. Our life at
Davidson is pretty easy: we don’t even have to do our own clothes!!! Next year may be a shock for
many seniors: paying bills, cooking, doing laundry, cleaning, and working (that is, if we even find jobs). The general consensus
from the alumni was that I should enjoy my time here, because the reality after college is not so bright.
What other time in our life will we be surrounded by our closest friends and have the freedom to do
exactly as we wish? Savor your walks through the campus. Breathe the cool crisp air and admire the golden red
leaves that have begun to fall. Simply enjoy the time when everything IS secure. For most of us, when we
leave Davidson, we are leaving security for the unknown.

What frightens me is that I still FEEL like a young college student, not an adult. Why do little kids
have to grow up so quickly?

~~~ ~~~
