THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1993 5 WIRE

Fraternity evicted from house

TUCSON, AZ (CPS) - A University of Arizona fraternity was evicted from its chapter house because the building was so
badly trashed it was uninhabitable, the Arizona Daily Wildcat reported in September. The Theta Delta Chi fraternity was charged with
criminal damages in an amount of more than $250,000, plus $18,000 in unpaid bills. Under the chapter’s lease agreement, the
fraternity was responsible for maintaining the house. Damage to the building, which the fraternity had rented since 1967, included 40
broken windows, damaged furniture, broken toilets, gashes and holes in the walls, missing doors, and piles of debris scattered throughout
the building, according to the paper. Investigators discovered excrement on the floors, fire extinguishers that had been discharged, and noted
that the roof needed to be replaced. Officials told the newspaper that the university will support criminal charges against fraternity
members.

Stanford moves to quick photos

STANFORD, CA (CPS) - Stanford U’s bookstore has decided to venture into one-hour photo processing, the latest among a handful
of schools that are trying to adapt their services to students’ changing needs and compete with off-campus businesses. The Stanford
store, which opened its Photo Express department in March, offers processing and sells cameras, film, and accessories in a 100
square-foot area. The fast turnaround for developing photos is possible because of a micro-lab photo processing machine that develops and
prints 35mm film in less than 11 square feet of floor space. “We’re inundated with film right after big events
like spring break and graduation,” said Ellen Gilber, Stanford’s academic supply buyer.

Festival to focus on races

CLEMSON, SC (CPS) - Can art help bridge differences between the races? That is the kind of question that will
be raised during Clemson University’s first Festival of African-American Literature and the Arts to explore the role of race in
novels, films, and other art forms. The October 20-24 festival will feature playwright Alice Childers, novelist Dori Sanders, and poet
Nikki Giovanni, who will discuss their work, and an art exhibit and jazz and gospel concerts. Harvey Gantt, former mayor
of Charlotte, NC, will deliver the welcoming remarks. In 1963, Clemson University was the first college in the South to
be integrated peacefully by Gantt, then an architecture student.

Alumnae celebrate 20 years of coeducation

By Kristin Garris

The celebration of twenty years of coeducation at Davidson was held this weekend. Sponsored by the Alumni Association, the celebration
included receptions for the various classes, a picnic dinner on Friday, a panel discussion concerning coeducation, a lunch and round
table discussion for women only, classroom experiences with female faculty, tours of the campus and Visual Arts Center, cocktails and
dinner on Saturday, and a worship service Sunday morning at Dogwood Dell.

At the picnic dinner on Friday, Dr. Libby Mills’ talk “Observations of a Loyal Daughter” prompted discussion that carried over
into Saturday’s forum. She noted that there are still signs of a male-dominated Davidson, an example of which is the
alma mater which states “Our Fathers.” Now that Davidson has over two thousand alumnae, it was argued, an alma mater
saying “Our Parents” would more accurately describe the Davidson community of alumni and be more inclusive for female students who
now represent 45% of the student body.

The ratio of men and women in the student body was discussed at the forum Saturday morning. Led by Dean
Leslie Marsicano, the panel members included former President Sam Spencer ‘40, staff person Ruth Pittard, Ginny Newell ‘78, Dana Lemon
‘86, True Davis ‘83, and Amy Branch ‘93. The panel discussion was well-attended by alumnae, faculty, and current students. Dr.
Ruth Ault and Gardner Roller Ligo ‘73, who works in Admissions, pointed out that even some members of the Board
of Trustees are reluctant in making the student body equal in terms of the female/male ratio. The class of 1996
represents the first class in the history of Davidson in which...there are more females than males. In order to keep
the ratio of the student body at 55% male—a figure set by the Board of Trustees—fewer women were admitted in
the class of 1997. As more females enter Davidson, the “host-guest” system becomes less of a reality, yet the existence
of a set ratio of women and men keeps firm the idea of men as a majority. Alumnae from the
first classes to include women spoke of the challenges they faced as females on a predominantly male campus. They encountered
hostility from both male students and faculty who felt “invaded” by the presence of females. Ginny Newell ‘78 commented on
the lack of facilities—including restrooms—which made the early years of coeducation tedious. She and the audience laughed when she stated:
“It got better each year...as one more class of all males graduated.”

Concern was expressed during the forum by some alumnae who feel that the pressures exerted on Davidson students to succeed
in the business and professional world hinder women who are full-time mothers, not full-time employees. One alumna said she feels
obligated to explain herself when asked “what are you doing now?” and she replies, “I’m a mother.” A concern common
to many women is how to balance career and family, and for Davidson alumnae, the pressure to succeed is especially
pervasive.

Dr. Sam Spencer ‘40, who was president of Davidson in 1973 when women were first admitted as freshmen, spoke of
the actual process in making Davidson co-educational. He stated that “the time was right” for the acceptance of women; Spencer
was applauded Saturday night for his part in making women feel welcome at Davidson.

Topics brought up during the morning panel discussion were continued during the lunch and round table discussion held for women
only. Saturday afternoon, four “classroom experiences” were held for alumnae. Dr. Janet Shannon spoke on “Family Structure and Freedom: Philadelphia
in the 18th and 19th Centuries,” Drs. Sally McMillen and Mary Thornberry discussed “When Race is Relevant: From Jim Crow
to Mel Watt,” Dr. Maurya MacNeil spoke of “The Under-Representation of Women in the Sciences,” and Dr. Ruth Ault talked
about “Gender Roles in Fairy Tales.”

During the dinner hosted by Sherburne Laughlin ‘83 and Carol Connor Willingham ‘77, for whom Connor Eating House was named,
the organization by alumnae of a scholarship to be given to a female each year upon her entrance to Davidson
was announced. The keynote speaker for the dinner was Elizabeth Kiss ‘83, the only female Rhodes Scholar from Davidson, now
Assistant Professor of Politics at Princeton University. Her address, entitled “Measuring Our Success,” was powerful and moving. She spoke of
coeducation at Davidson in light of the historical and continuing fight by women for equality.

At the conclusion of the address and dinner, alumnae and present students felt a bond uniting them in the tradition
of women at Davidson. The celebration of coeducation at Davidson was a success; alumnae saw the fruits of their labors
in the improvements of conditions for women on campus, and students both sensed the part they play in the long
tradition of women at Davidson and began to appreciate the pioneering work of the women who came before.
