- THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1993 7

Sensationalism: The Real Problem in the Abortion Debate
By Bryan Allison

Since there was a presidential election this past November, the abortion issue was raised about as often as Amy Fisher’s story appeared on daily talk shows. I have watched with much disgust as both the pro-life and pro-choice factions took various snipes at one another. My purpose in this commentary is not to taint you with my personal viewpoint on the whole mess. Instead, I want to comment on the various despicable advertisements that both sides have used to steer the abortion issue away from pure facts and to situations that rarely or never occur.

Let’s start with the pro-life commercials that herald the moniker, “Life. What a Beautiful Choice.” A perfectly healthy white boy is seen in various adorable poses as his mother reminisces back to when she got pregnant nine years ago and was tempted to get an abortion. But even though money was tight, she decided to have the baby. She closes by saying, “Now I just can’t imagine life without my little Billy!” Give me a break. How extreme is this case if it really exists? The economy has been so strong over the past nine years, I am sure most lower-income Americans have been promoted to executive level jobs and are living the American Dream in Suburbia, U.S.A., breathing a huge sigh of relief that they didn’t decide to get that abortion after all. I don’t see anything beautiful about babies born addicted to crack; I don’t see anything beautiful about a teenager who has to drop out of school and will be lucky to ever go back to high school much less go on to college. A kid born with physical deformities or into a poverty-stricken family may have every right to be born, but stick to the facts. Let’s see. What is a better way the pro-life group who paid the thousands of dollars for this advertisement could have spent their money? More counseling on the other viable options to abortion? More education on the numerous methods of birth control? I can only imagine that such a commercial would only cause more resentment than actual good. I seriously doubt some unmarried, uneducated pregnant girl about to have an abortion is going to see this ad during an old “MacGyver” rerun and decide that she ought to reconsider.

But the pro-lifers are not the only guilty party. Planned Parenthood sent out some propaganda posters before the presidential election that rival the stupidity of the pro-life commercials. One poster proclaims, “Vote now or forever hold your sperm.” It goes on to relate that if Bill Clinton is elected president, everyone will be able to have sex whenever they please. But if George Bush is re-elected, there really is only one choice: to abstain completely from sex. Another poster warns, “Don’t vote for George Bush if you ever want to have sex again.” Viewing this from a strictly logical perspective, the posters fail to mention one vital factor that I daresay the majority of Americans are familiar with. Or maybe I’m being naive in thinking that most educated people have heard of the amazing technological breakthrough of the condom. Clearly, the clowns at Planned Parenthood must view all males as some sort of Cro-Magnons stuck in the Dark Ages, wanting to spread their seed wherever and whenever they please without discretion in order to ensure the survival of their tribe. Of course, one cannot get out of a debate with a pro-choice backer without them mentioning the cases of rape, incest, or threat to the mother. Again, examples of extreme cases taking precedent over more typical ones.

My point in noting the inconsistencies of these advertisements is that the money could be better spent. It is an entirely different situation when the owner of products like soft drinks or deodorant takes pot shots at their competitors. Doesn’t the decision to abort a pregnancy or not deserve more vital information and less sensationalism?

Deep Thoughts... People Need to Take Responsibility

Our professors are constantly reminding us to revise our writing before turning it in for evaluation. They tell us to be certain we have read enough background material to know enough about our subject to make a point. Likewise, in the classroom, the less-adventuresome among us will keep our mouths shut if we have not sufficiently completed reading for class discussion. Similarly, we are asked to read all of the given directions before beginning an assigned academic task. The message underlying all of these examples is that good students think before they act. Isn’t it amazing that a skill so vital to academic success is so rarely used outside the classroom?

Recently, I witnessed a physical altercation between two people which aptly illustrates our collective refusal to examine the consequences of our actions before committing to them. A friend of mine, in a spontaneous effort at humor, pulled what he viewed as a harmless prank on someone else. Little did he think that his victim might not see any humor in the joke. In the same way, the duped person’s immediate violent reaction, without any attempt to respond rationally or civilly, displayed an equivalent lack of thought.

Of course, there is a place for spontaneous, instinctive behavior. This week I heard a Super Bowl referee on the radio explaining how he makes calls during a game. Because things happen so fast in athletic contests, he is sometimes forced to rely on his instincts when calling a penalty, much like the athletes themselves who must make quick decisions at times without really thinking about them. In a game situation, however, both the referees and athletes know and accept the risks they take when they act instinctively. Athletes know that they may miss a catch, flub a pass, or turn the wrong way and end up under a pile of bodies.

Seay Continued from page 6

...crease exponentially if we could only devise (or reinstate) a system that is easy, convenient, and effortless enough for the laziest of us. (You didn’t even have to separate anything in the old days; for fun I used to...Stuff newspapers inside cans and bottles and put them in cardboard boxes. If only all the forest green people could band together and harness the lime green people’s untapped recyclables, we could live in a veritable tree hugger Utopia. Also, I think that the lazy people of this school use far more beer cans than the forest green people. That’s just a guess, but I’d put money on it. Correct me if I’m wrong, but isn’t Davidson supposed to be creating leaders of the world? If so, it would only make sense that this institution do everything in its power to make sure that there is a world left to lead. The removal of the recycling bins (and from all convenient recycling, as far as I can tell) is a huge black mark on Davidson itself.

Referees accept that they will sometimes make mistakes, and even if they call a game perfectly, not everyone will be satisfied with the officiating. They are willing to put themselves in this precarious position because, at the end of a contest, there is a winner and a loser. But, for the most part, no real harm is done. Outside of such a setting, however, we must all try to act rationally to avoid hurting others or ourselves. I speak not just of physical disputes, but of verbal arguments, and even friendly jibes between friends. So often, the humor of an impulsive moment evaporates after some reflection and even appears malicious if the joke is at the expense of another individual or group. These attempts at wit are the genesis of perhaps the majority of the intolerant acts on this and other campuses.

Spontaneous, emotionally-inspired actions are not always harmful to others or even truly harmful to ourselves, but they can certainly make us look foolish at times. An illustration that leaps to mind is the columns and letters of my fellow students and I that appear in this newspaper which are so often vacuous tracts of rubbish. I personally know the thrill of having one’s name consistently printed in a publication, but I also know all too well the embarrassment of reading a piece that I have submitted only to discover that it did not receive enough thought or time to call it my best effort. We would all do the college community and ourselves a favor by refraining from presenting writing inspired by poorly-researched anger, idle boredom, or bare commitment to being a columnist. The result would be a better paper and less wasted time for all of us. If we choose to exert restraint over our emotions in our actions, words, and writing, we will at last be living the most important lesson we will ever learn here.

Birks Continued from page 5

Filar himself later admits that [afternoon’s] “a lousy time to play a game... I didn’t want to be the lead-in to a UNC-Charlotte men’s game.” AD Holland’s fig leaf, that “as compensation... women’s basketball would keep the $4,500 Davidson collected for renting... to UNCC.” Again, his statements are contradicted by Filar, who states that “the way it was explained, it would go into the athletic budget, which may or may not come back to women’s basketball.” It appears that someone’s been less than truthful.

Now about the faculty. Professors David Martin and Mary Anne Moore conclude that AD Holland’s actions constitute blatant sexism which “humiliated the women’s team.” Their two-page resolution, to be presented at the next faculty meeting, will request “a public apology to Davidson and Radford teams and the $4,500 to be spent ‘as a miserable bit of compensation’ on academics.” Radford coach Luby Lichonczak, less sanguine than AD Holland, would seem to agree. In her opinion, “it's a bitter disappointment for me to see that other women’s programs aren’t given priority over outside teams.”

Cause we know they need it, we're going to give everybody the advice they so richly deserve. First, to Athletic Director Terry Holland: Get a clue. It seems pretty questionable that you would rent out our arena and bump the basketball team to an unenviable time slot. For the sake of diplomacy, make the apology. To Professors Martin and Moore: thanks for bringing up an issue the administration wouldn’t have mentioned on their own. If you haven’t heard from the Dean of Faculty, you surely will. To the Faculty: Grow a backbone for a change. Think back to those heady grad school days when you cared more about ideas than about the performance of your mutual funds. Support this resolution. Finally, to the trustees (arbiters of truth and justice): we think we know where you can get the money to replace this money-grubbing policy. Try looking under the rock labeled “Athletic Director."

O'Brien Continued from page 5

...denied benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving federal financial assistance.” I think that one of the “benefits” of playing collegiate athletics at a small school like Davidson is the familiar support of the community. Coach Filar says that one of the things that he enjoys telling recruits is that they will probably know their fans. How many freshmen at UVA can say that they have had a class with a soccer player, or even recognize them off the field? This “benefit” of Davidson athletics can only be truly achieved if Davidson students give women’s athletics a chance.

Davidson has a good women’s basketball team. They have won many more games than they were expected to win. It is very possible that they will have a .500 record playing against Division I teams. They have players who hustle and never give up. The problem is that no one knows. The so-called great Davidson fans should have been there when Davidson women’s basketball beat Barton and Charleston Southern. They should have seen senior Jennifer Roos ignore Coach Filar and shoot the 3-point shot with six seconds to go against Winthrop. Every person who likes basketball should be there on Saturday, February 29th at 7:30 to watch Jennifer Roos and Jennifer Plowright play their last basketball game ever for Davidson against Division I UNC Asheville. I wouldn’t miss it for the world.

Emily S. O’Brien, ’96