THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1993 13

Artist Series welcomes internationally acclaimed performers

By Jacob Abraham

Beginning this fall, members of the Davidson community will have a chance to enjoy the talents of a host of
world-class artists, musicians, and performers, live on stage. No, it’s not a trip to Broadway, or Washington, or even Charlotte;
it’s the Davidson Artists Series. Four distinctive performances in the Love Auditorium promise to provide some outstanding entertainment for everyone,
while showcasing some extraordinary talent.

On September 29th, the Artists Series kicks off with the Broadway musical “Sunday in the Park with George.” Stephen Sondheim
contributes music and lyrics to James Lapine’s unconventional story about how a work of art affects both the artist and
his audience. The show revolves around George Seurat’s famous pointillist creation, “A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande
Jatte.” While the first half of the musical delves into the life of Seurat himself during his work on “La
Grande Jatte,” the second half jumps into the twentieth century to examine the creation of a modern tribute to Seurat’s
work. The story begins with Seurat, whose obsession with his art has destructive consequences for his personal relationships. In the
second act, however, the focus shifts to Seurat’s distant grandson, also named George, who manipulates technology to artistic ends while
making deals to build his success. Sondheim and Lapine reexamine perceptions of art, whether neo-Impressionism or the modern musical, while
providing the audience with a show the New York Times called “audacious, haunting, and touching.”

The Artists Series then turns to a different sort of performance, as internationally acclaimed pianist Robert Taub comes to Davidson
on November twentieth. Taub is at the forefront of a new generation of piano virtuosos, and his list of accomplishments
is seemingly endless. A Princeton graduate, he was presented the highest award in piano from the Juilliard School, where he
later taught. He has performed everywhere from New York to Los Angeles, from Berlin to Hong Kong; he has played
with the Montreal Symphony Orchestra, the Philadelphia Orchestra, the BBC Philharmonic, and the San Francisco Symphony; he has appeared at
major music festivals across the globe. His musical repertoire runs from the Baroque to modern, and he has premiered music
from various contemporary composers, particularly American composer Milton Babbitt. Taub will bring his own interpretation of Babbitt’s work to Davidson,
where the composer himself will be among the audience members.

Further adding to the diversity of the Artists Series is the Urban Bush Women, a varied group of performers who
will come to Davidson on March 8th. While all of the talents of the Urban Bush Women fall in the
realm of theater, their performances encompass skills ranging from dance to a cappella singing to mime and spoken word. Their
purpose remains to pay tribute to their African heritage and religious traditions, but the overwhelming theme of their energetic performances
is an affirmation of the various dimensions of the human spirit — pushing the boundaries of conventional stereotypes of race,
sex, and the body. The Urban Bush Women have taken their act across the U.S. and into Europe, garnering critical
acclaim through their shows while encouraging cross-cultural communication through workshops and residencies.

Finally, closing the 1993-94 Artists Series with a bash, the Broadway musical “Cabaret” comes to Davidson. Set in Berlin in
the early 1930s, “Cabaret” captures the spirit of Germany just prior to the rise ofthe Third Reich. But rather than
focusing on the gloom and embitterment of the period, the musical instead highlights the frivolity and frenzied merriment with which
the people of Berlin reacted to the increasingly tense atmosphere. Set in the riotous Kit Kat Club, the show revolves
around the relationship between Sally, who sings in the nightclub, and her American lover who wants to whisk her away
to the safety of the States. Light-hearted and fun, “Cabaret” includes fifteen brilliant songs by Kander and Ebb. At its
opening in New York, the multi-award-winning show was named Best Musical of the Year. Life Magazine called it “one of
the best musicals in Broadway history.” Clearly, the Artists Series should have something of interest even for those who do
not follow theater or consider themselves patrons of the arts. Why run all the way to the city when some
of the finest artists in the world will soon be right on campus? The diversity and skillfulness of each of
the performances is sure to liven up the arts at Davidson in the fall and spring.

Country sticks with its drinking roots

Dixie continued from page 11

a love that went wrong...” Willie Nelson’s “Whiskey River” takes advantage of another common theme in Country music: Drinkin’ someone
off your mind. The subject matter, however, isn’t what carries this song. It’s his informal style that makes it so
powerful. One long harmonica and guitar jam runs through the whole thing. I’d kill to watch these boys play on
a back porch in Kentucky somewhere. It’s pure country.

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Food fish
5 Spoken
14 Atmosphere: pref.
15 Lower in rank
16 Kind of exam
17 Custard dessert
18 Cuttlefish ink
19 Concerning
20 Home for an ambassador
22 Professional player
24 Pester
26 Hurry
27 Church affair
30 Fruit
35 Apportion
38 Claim against property
39 Sets a trap
40 Bartlett
41 Actress Gardner
42 Angelic instruments
46 Rang
47 Lodge member
48 Works for wages
50 Royal messengers
54 Scatters trash
58 Very dry
59 Made of cereal
61 Graven image
62 Acid fruit
63 Open
64 Refer to
65 Sly look
66 Leases
67 Fret

DOWN
1 Secure
2 Tiller
3 Bedouin
4 Gift to charity
5 Slave
6 Follows orders
9 Tanned hides
10 Heating system item
11 Sea bird
12 Small pie
13 Nautical term
21 Chair
23 Employ
25 Surpass
27 Dish of greens
28 Martini garnish
29 Unobstructed
31 Berets and tams
32 Perfect image
33 Make happy
34 Fathered
36 Tree coating
39 Rear exit
40 Synthetic materials
42 Elevation
43 Transmitted
45 School book
46 Publishes
49 Warning sound
50 Passageway
51 Great Lake
52 Frost
53 Rescue
55 Ready for publication
56 Memory
57 Large amount
60 Knockout count

“Friends in Low Places,” as everyone knows, is one of Garth Brooks' biggest hits. It didn’t, however, reach the top
of the charts because of the musical ability of the band. This song’s success lies in its subject matter: Hating
the woman who left you for some rich dude and gettin’ drunk. In Country music especially, the rich guy all
too often gets the girl. If you watched The Muppet Show, you'll probably remember Kenny Rogers and the little redneck
muppet with the mustache singing “The Gambler.” I think I cried when his little muppet spirit went up to muppet
Heaven. The song, like much of Country, is about life. “You got to know when to hold ‘em, know when
to fold ‘em,” and know when to pass the bottle. The last song I’ll mention is an old George Jones
tune. “Tennessee Whiskey” reminds us all that some things are better than gettin’ drunk. A woman’s love is as “smooth
as Tennessee whiskey, as sweet as strawberry wine.” As the Georgia boy Alan Jackson would say, George “don’t need the
booze to get a buzz on.” Listen to these five songs. If you don’t like any of them, I don’t
know what to tell you. If you do like them (and you probably will) I’m glad I could help you
out. When you go back home to New Jersey, or wherever, play these five for your friends. Have them do
the same for their friends, and so on. Come on, people, let’s do our part to make this world a
better place for everyone.

ARTS ARTS ARTS ARTS ARTS ARTS

Artsy type? Call Rachel at 6413 and write for her.
