THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1993

15

Men's soccer is learning that the road is a tough place to go

By Will Cobb

They said there would be some tough days on the field with such a young team, and they have come.
After going above .500 with a win at The Citadel, the Davidson soccer team has hit its longest losing streak
in over two years. The Cats tried to break the four-game losing streak yesterday when they traveled to Statesboro, GA,
to face Georgia Southern. Now the overall record on the season stands at 6-9-1 with a 2-1 conference record.

The skids hit only four days after their last win when the Cats faced UNC-Greensboro. After 90 minutes of play,
the two teams found themselves deadlocked at 1-1. Then the injury woes continued when junior Neal Andrews injured his knee,
sidelining him for the next two weeks. His replacement is freshman Matt Hill who stepped in immediately.

Unfortunately, the overtime periods were unkind to the Cats as UNCG rolled up three goals to take the 4-1 victory.
The Cats looked to rebound from this upset when they headed to Columbia, SC, for the seventh Annual MetLife Classic
over fall break.

Davidson faced Boston University in the first game of the tournament on October 16. Boston brought a strong team from
the North for a physical contest. The Cats held tough as Hill had his first start in goal, making some
outstanding saves.

Holding off a fierce Boston attack, the 0-0 tie was broken with 16:43 left in the game when a loose
ball in front of the goal was picked up and blasted past the Davidson goalie.

The game would be put out of reach about six minutes later when a Boston player broke free and gave
his teammate a goal with a perfect assist. The Cats then faced the University of South Florida, a 5-1 loser
to South Carolina.

Suffering their third straight loss in a row, Davidson fell to South Florida 4-1. The Cats fell behind early and
never recovered. South Carolina knocked off Boston University 2-1 for the tournament championship.

Following the weekend trip, Davidson traveled to Charleston, SC, to face the College of Charleston. This road game would be
no prettier as the Cats were shut out 5-0. In the four losses, Davidson has mustered only 2 goals while
giving up 15. The four remaining games give Davidson an opportunity to finish above .500 and second place in the
Southern Conference.

UPDATE:
The men's soccer team suffered a tough 3-2 loss Sunday at Georgia Southern. Ben Hayes and Tommy Souter scored for
the Cats.

The conference tournament will be held in Greensboro on November 5-7. In order to receive a bid to the NCAA
tournament, Davidson needs to win the Southern Conference tournament. Their next home game will be versus Appalachian State this Wednesday
at 7:00 PM at Richardson Field.

Hockey battles to a 1-1 tie despite scoring opportunities

Hockey continued from page 14

maintained their poise. The teams played a scoreless first half, although Davidson had numerous scoring opportunities due to the smooth
transitions from defense to offense made by Suzanne Hardesty, Robin Pepper, and Nicole Ficeto. In the second half, after Radford
scored during a scramble in front of the cage, the Wildcats took control. They out-smarted Radford, passing the ball quickly
and switching fields often.

Davidson scored off of a great play by Suzanne Hardesty and Holly Kledis: Hardesty cut into the circle, received the
ball, and gave a perfect flat pass to Kledis, who was in the exact position to tip the ball into
the corner of the cage.

With the tied score, the Wildcats did not let down as they continued to mark well defensively and create offensive
opportunities. Defender Jill Bennett had a great game as she shut down Radford’s scoring threat, denying her the ball all
over the field. Unfortunately, the team’s persistent efforts did not convert into a win, but the Wildcats left the game
knowing that they had out-played their opponent.

After the game, Coach Pryor commented on the team’s improvement and undying spirit: “This is a team that plays with
heart and never gives up.” Despite their lack of actual notches in the win column, the Wildcats had a successful
weekend because they played hard and they played together.

Their next home game is Friday afternoon against Virginia Tech.

Coleman stacks up against the best goalies in the nation

Player GAA
(School)
Melanie Orpen .26
(Princeton)
Rachel Gelsthardt .28
(Michigan)
Hillary Rose .29
(U. Mass.)
Mary Lou Winstel .42
(Maine)
Emily Coleman .53
(Davidson)

Safe Sex

Condoms by Mail.

13 ribbed Protex-Touch Condoms

Send $10.00 to:

Applied Information Technologies Inc.
916 Brookrun Dr. Suite 1402
Charlotte, NC 28209
