THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Women on the Court

New Dean of Students may confront changing social trends

By Rachel Dunifon

Back in the dark ages of the 1960s, Davidson was what Dean of Students Will Terry calls “a suitcase college.” This changed partially in 1969, when alcohol was allowed on campus. The biggest change to Davidson’s social life, however, came in 1973 when the first freshman class with women was admitted.

The first women who wanted to participate in Patterson Court activities joined one of four co-ed eating houses that developed soon after they arrived. Even some fraternities, such as Pi Kappa Alpha, had women members eating at their houses. The trend of co-ed houses began to change in 1977 when Rusk House was formed by women desiring a better support group, as well as better food. Over the years, a sizeable number of women joined Rusk, and its increasing size eventually led to the formation of Warner Hall House. Spencer House, which folded last year, opened in 1985, and Connor House came on the scene in 1992.

According to Terry, the creation and popularity of women’s eating houses, along with an increased interest in fraternities among Davidson students, led to the downfall of co-ed eating houses, the last of which closed in 1990. While Terry believes the presence of women at Davidson and on Patterson Court has done a great deal to make the school a stronger community, he expected more positive outcomes to occur with their arrival. “The social life hasn’t changed as much as I had hoped,” Terry says. He sees the current social atmosphere as a continuation of the previously existing fraternity-style parties on the court. Instead, he would have liked to have seen female leadership on the court lead to more creative social options, including events that facilitate socialization and a focus on people, rather than alcohol.

Terry predicts an intense study of Davidson’s social life will occur within the next three to four years, possibly leading to a change in current social patterns on campus. He claims that this will be the first major challenge for his successor in the Dean’s office.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1993

Photo by Lisa Watson

Freshmen make name tags at the women's forum Saturday. The forum, which featured skits, replaced the traditional Court tours.

Houses support options for women on court

Women continued from page 1

Competition is inevitable. “It is natural for each house to want its own character and pride, but when the competition starts to hurt other houses, then it is unhealthy.” Bennett thinks the differences between the houses should be positive: “There shouldn’t be fighting, but differences can be good. That’s how people choose one house over another.”

Patterson Court Council under Petty’s leadership has made some positive changes, including writing a new charter with bylaws that put more responsibility on the court itself, along with a judicial board to solve internal problems and a treasury for activities to promote the Court as a campus-wide organization, not just for social options. The Council is also responsible for this year’s newly revised alcohol policy. Petty feels that Patterson Court and the Council are “finally gaining the recognition they deserve.”

Patterson Court Council is involved in organizing such activities such as Day at the Lake, “after dinner” discussions in the women’s eating houses, and most importantly, a women’s committee made up of house presidents and vice presidents. Petty points to this committee as instrumental in several changes being made in the eating house system, such as Women’s Weekend.

Petty, Bennett, and Foster think being involved in an eating house is a worthwhile experience. Bennett thinks eating houses are one of the best things about Patterson Court because there is no pledging, no ordeal - you just sign up.” Petty believes being a member of an eating house engenders a sense of responsibility: “You realize how tough it is to run a house - to operate a kitchen and feed a lot of people, but also to get things done. It really opens your mind to other personalities and learning to work in a group is vital.”

School rises in liberal arts rankings

Rankcontinued from page 1

mentioned, “[Davidson’s] goals are more internal than external. We want to do the best job in undergraduate teaching.”

U.S. News and World Report magazine began their annual ranking of “America’s Best Colleges” seven years ago. The rankings are used primarily by schools for marketing purposes and possibly for selection factors for prospective students. The report ranks schools in four primary categories: national universities, national liberal arts colleges, regional (north, south, midwest, and west) universities, and regional liberal arts colleges.

Past Davidson Rankings
In 1993 Davidson ranked 18th, 1992-22nd, 1991-10th, 1990-15th, 1989-20th, and in 1988-15th. Before 1988, the rankings only included the top ten. (Source: Sept. 30, 1991, Davidsonian)

Other North Carolina Schools
Duke University ranked 7th in national universities for the second year in a row. Wake Forest ranked first in the Southern region university category for the seventh year. ASU in Boone and UNC-Charlotte ranked number 11 and 15 in the same category. UNC-Charlotte did not make the top fifteen this year though they ranked 14th last year. No North Carolina colleges ranked in the top fifteen of regional liberal arts colleges.

Other Nationally Ranked Southern Colleges
Vanderbilt, 20th, and Emory, 25th, joined Duke in the top twenty-five of national universities. Washington and Lee, 20th, and Davidson were the only southern top twenty-five national liberal arts colleges.

Top Ten National Universities
From first to last: Harvard (MA), Princeton (NJ), Yale (CT), M.I.T. (MA), Cal. Inst. Tech., Stanford (CA), Duke, Dartmouth (NH), U. of Chicago (IL), and Cornell (NY).

25 Top National Liberal Arts Colleges
1. Amherst College (MA)
2. Williams College (MA)
3. Swarthmore College (PA)
4. Wellesley College (MA)
5. Pomona College (CA)
6. Bowdoin College (ME)
7. Haverford College (PA)
8. Middlebury College (VT)
9. Smith College (MA)
10. Wesleyan University (CT)
11. Claremont McKenna (CA)
12. Davidson College (NC)
13. Carleton College (MN)
14. Vassar College (NY)
15. Bryn Mawr College (PA)
16. Grinnell College (IA)
17. Colby College (ME)
18. Bates College (ME)
19. Colgate University (NY)
20. Washington and Lee (VA)
21. Oberlin College (OH)
22. Hamilton College (NY)
23. Mount Holyoke (MA)
24. Trinity College (CT)
25. Holy Cross (MA)

from US News & World Report

Dave Matthews Band Ends Early
By Mandy Curtis

After only two hours of playing, the Dave Matthews Band was shut down at midnight on Saturday due to complaints from local Davidson residents. The concert, sponsored by Patterson Court, was held in the center of the court. Many students, organizers, and band members were disappointed with the abrupt ending of the event.

The concert was organized by Warner Hall social chairs, Heather Galano and Cindy Ebbs. As the finale to Women’s Weekend, the band was contracted to play until 1:30 a.m., according to Galano. After all of the time and money put into the night’s festivities, Galano says she and Ebbs were “really upset” that the band was shut down.

According to Patterson Court Adviser Kurt Holmes, the residents on Main Street began complaining to the Davidson police about the noise when the band started at about 10 p.m. Residents and the police called President Kuykendall about the situation, and he made the decision to have the campus police end the show at midnight.

Many complained that the stage should not have been facing Main Street; however, Galano says that the power cord from the BSC would not have reached the stage had it been facing the apartments. According to Galano and Ebbs, the residents, Davidson police, campus police, and Kuykendall were all notified that the band would play outside. Up until that point, everything was going really well, says Holmes. He says that all of the credit goes to Galano and Ebbs.

The Dave Matthews Band, from Charlottesville, Virginia, was “phenomenal,” according to Galano. This is why it was so sad that they were shut down, she says. Galano added that the band “loved Davidson” and thought that the people they met were “really cool.” She says they were really excited about playing here and were “bummed out” about ending early and would love to come back.

LUNCH DINNER LATE NIGHT
-- ACOUSTIC ROCK -- OPEN MIKE
Watch the Games in KP's Side Door Bar
896-0085
SHOPS ON THE GREEN
I-77, Exit 28W (Adjacent to Comfort Inn)