BACK PAGE INTERVIEW
MONDAY, APRIL 12, 1993

Real Estate Broker Turned Mayor Talks about Davidson
By Leigh Rawdon

How did you become the mayor of Davidson?
I entered the political arena in 1977 as a commissioner. I was appointed to fill an unexpired term of the
ex-mayor in September of 1984, so I’ve been the mayor since 1984. I grew up in Davidson on a farm
just outside of town. My grandfather and his brothers built about half the stores in downtown Davidson, so it has
been in the family. It has been a long-time ambition of mine to get some of these buildings back in
the family, and I probably am the largest property owner in downtown Davidson. Now, along with Mr. Clark who owns
that whole block up there, I own all these buildings here, the two more where the dress shop is, where
my real estate office is, where the antique store is. But Davidson is home, and other than going away to
school and the army, I’ve spent my entire life here.

What changes have you seen happen in Davidson?
Well, as a child growing up here, my daddy and mother worked in a grocery store, and at the time
there probably were five grocery stores on Main Street, a drug store, two barber shops, a clothing store, and a
hardware store. At one time, where The Mecklenburg Gazette is, there was a service station right there with gas pumps
right on the side of the street. Where the Gulf is, as a child growing up, there was a movie
theater ‘til it burned. So how Davidson supported four or five grocery stores back then with a lot fewer people
is a mystery, but we didn’t have all the big shopping centers and supermarkets and so forth. So back then,
if you called up and ordered the groceries by phone, the grocery store would deliver the groceries to you. That’s
been a long time ago.

How has the size of the town changed?
The town has grown some but not drastically. It has grown in proportion really based on the way the college
has grown. The college has always been and continues to be the largest employer in town... either you have a
spouse working there, or a parent working there, or your girlfriend works there; three-fourths of the people in town are
tied in some way with something that happens at Davidson College.

How do you see the relationship between the college and the town?
It is a good relationship. People don’t realize that the college in a town our size, better than twenty-five percent
of the property in our town is tax-exempt because it is a non-profit corporation. And that is an astronomical number,
percentage-wise, in a small town, and that lowers your tax levies to how much money is coming in. But over
the years, when the town has really had a real need, the college has come forward and made contributions. They
have helped us to buy fire trucks, they helped us with the downtown plan, and they’ve been good corporate citizens,
and we have a good relationship.

How would you describe Davidson to someone who has never been here before?
I think it is a unique town in that we are made up of quaint shops. The tempo is not
very brisk, people are not always in a hurry, it is not as hustle and bustle as a lot of
big towns. It is a town that I think is very friendly. Some of the highlights in Davidson are going
to the post office and the bank every day where you meet all your friends and congregate. So it is
a low-key town where I think people enjoy each other, and it is a town that is a place I
think most outsiders would like.

What sort of changes do you foresee in the next twenty years?
Well, in the last six months, there have been more houses built, more lots created than there have been in
the last seven or eight years.

What about the commercial development we see in Cornelius?
It is two things. The number one thing is the fact that this road that goes out of Davidson, Griffith
Street, goes nowhere; it runs into the lake. And when people are building fast foods and businesses like that, they
want traffic going both ways where it passes there, and I think that is one reason. But the other reason
is that our zoning has been very strict in what you can and can’t do. Usually, fast foods like to
locate close to interchanges, and unfortunately, if Shoney’s or somebody like that wanted to come, as long as they don’t
have a drive-up restaurant, there wouldn’t be anything keeping them from coming. But I think the biggest thing is the
demand and the fact that the road goes nowhere.

What are the issues facing Davidson right now?
A problem that is spiraling is the cost of picking up garbage and treating it. It is going sky high
with what it is costing us to treat it. As Mecklenburg County grows this way, with it is coming more
crime. We are experiencing more crime in Davidson than we have had in years and years. Even though it is
still very low percentage-wise. But when we start analyzing where the offenders are coming from, for the most part, they
are not from Davidson, they are coming in from the outside, and that comes with growth, especially since we are
right here on the interstate. Another thing that I would say is a problem confronting us is students living off-campus.
There is nothing wrong with students living off-campus, but students who live off-campus must be responsible adult men and women.Women
in how they conduct. Photo by Casey Rogers.

A native Davidsonian, Mayor Russell Knox attended Davidson College for one year but after serving in the army, he graduated
from Presbyterian College. He went to banking school at LSU, spent 18 years in the financial field, and finally started
a real estate company in Davidson with his wife.

I think that is something of a problem that has increased in the town of Davidson. We are having more
growth quicker than we anticipated. I think with what is happening in government in Mecklenburg County where they are promoting
growth to come north, it is coming north. It is selling here and on into Iredell County. I don’t ever
see a lot of industry locating in Davidson, but I think you’re going to find industry trying to get just
inside of Iredell County to avoid Mecklenburg County taxes. As a result, that ought to create more jobs for people
who want to live in Davidson, but it is also conceivable that it will create more traffic and congestion for
Davidson.

Why is it that in Davidson there are no fast food restaurants? The same company owned all four corners and
they didn’t want fast food to start on this corner for how it might impact the other corner. Unfortunately, that
same company now has gone bankrupt, so now the two corners of the interchange on the east side of the
interstate have been foreclosed by five, six, seven, eight different banks. So that very well could be a problem for
us in the future as to what happens out there. Our zoning does not preclude a fast food from opening
in Davidson; it does preclude them from having those drive-up windows where you eat in the parking lot and those
kinds of things. So I think there are some restrictions within our ordinance that have not made it appealing for
people to want to locate there. But to do nothing with the land that is out there, that is zoned
for restaurant, drastically this year as a result of some of the things that have happened on campus that caused
a lot of them to come off campus. So hopefully, we are having some meetings now with some of the
students who live off campus, meetings with some of the landlords who rent to students off campus, and hopefully, we
can find a solution that will be compatible for both the neighborhood and the town government and the students in
the college.

Do you ever address race relation problems? We have very, very few. Certainly, over the years there have been a
few, but we have a community relations committee. This is one charge that they are given: to monitor race relations.
That was created, oh gosh, years ago when we did have some problems when integration was just starting. But now
the function of that committee is more just a pulse of what is happening in the community and not necessarily
race because, I mean, it’s, well, any problem that might be happening in the community. This is a sounding board
for the mayor and the town government about what needs to be addressed. We’ve had very, very few race problems
in town.

How do you explain that the races are still divided geographically? That is true. That is something that has been
in existence ever since Davidson has been in existence. There has not been as much movement into the white community
or the white community moving there. It is still somewhat divided.

Where do most people in the town work? The college is the largest employer now. A lot of those people
at the college and Ingersoll-Rand (being the number two), come from all around. They drive in from outside to work
here. We have a lot of people who commute from Charlotte to work in Charlotte, but it is a pretty
good mixture. Certainly, a lot more people come into Davidson to work than go to Charlotte to work.

Is there anything you would like to add? Several years ago, The Davidsonian interviewed me and I made a quote
in there about my philosophy on growth as the mayor since I was in the real estate business. Somewhere in
Atlanta, an alum read the thing and he tells the Atlanta newspaper. The Atlanta newspaper gets their reporter who lives
in Winston Salem to come down here and interview me on my philosophy on growth. A lot of people consider
me a threat as far as growth in that I am in the real estate business and people think that’s
all I’m interested in. I do tell them that after all, I have to live here and I want to
see orderly growth, but I am not one just for the sake of selling the houses to want to plug
up the streets where you can’t move and enjoy a normal life. So that is a perception that I have
had to work hard so that people do not perceive me as somebody who, because I am the mayor and
because I am in the real estate business, that all I want to do is to see how many houses
I can put in Davidson. That’s not the case at all.

What would you like to particularly accomplish as mayor of Davidson? I only hope we can retain our identity as
a small college village where everybody will always know each other. The hustle and bustle will not come to Davidson
like it has to a lot of other towns.
