12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1993

Groovy waves and catchy tunes: The blues has it all, and more

Blues continued from page 11

Worksongs also became strong general influences on the blues. Spirituals expressed suffering and oppression and the hope that human struggles would be rewarded by God in the afterlife, while worksongs voiced the discontent felt by black laborers. Former slave and abolitionist Frederick Douglass wrote about these songs, “Every tone was a testimony against slavery, and a prayer to God for deliverance from chains.”

Like the blues, these spirituals and worksongs recorded the difficulties and hardships of black life. Many believe the direct source of the early rural blues to be arhoolies. Also known as hollers, whoops, or cries, arhoolies were unaccompanied songs sung by fieldhands. An early Mississippi bluesman named Son House supported this when he said, “People keep asking me where the blues started, and all I can say is that when I was a boy we always was singing in the fields. Not real singing, you know, just hollerin’, but we made up our songs about things that was happening to us at the time, and I think that’s where the blues started.”

After the Civil War, the rural South still emphasized agriculture, which continued to use blacks as a chief source of labor. “Hollers” lived on not only in the fields, but in other areas where blacks were engaged in hard labor. Several blues traditions have been documented as appearing around the same time in the earliest years of the 20th century—the Mississippi Delta blues, the East Texas blues, and the Piedmont blues. Of these, the Mississippi Delta blues, which began around the town of Drew, Mississippi, have been the most influential.

The Mississippi Delta blues were documented as early as 1903. Howard Odum, who collected songs in the Mississippi Delta from 1905-1908, noted the use of slide guitar, and one oft-repeated line, “I got the blues and can’t be satisfied.” The blues songs came from the laborers and were popularized at Saturday night social gatherings, where blacks gathered to sing, dance, drink moonshine, and play music. The “bottleneck” or “slide” guitar which first emerged among these Delta bluesmen is widely popular among today’s musicians. This style of playing involves holding a bottle or other hard object over the strings to produce a voice-like effect.

Early Delta blues singers worked as cotton farmers to support themselves and played on the weekends. A network of Delta blues singers developed around Drew, Mississippi, a new town built in 1895. At its most successful point, Dockery Farms, a large plantation near Drew, employed around 800 workers. The community that developed around this plantation spawned many bluesmen and drew even more to the area, including such well-known pioneering blues artists as Charley Patton, Son House, Robert Johnson, and Howling Wolf. As this network of musicians grew stronger, singers began to travel around the Delta region spreading the blues.

Women, unfortunately, were excluded from the early folk blues because of the social circumstances of the time. Author William Barlow writes, “It was much more dangerous for them [women] than for their male counterparts to live in the rough-and-tumble milieu of the itinerant blues musicians. If a young black woman was inclined toward music during this period, more than likely she sang in a church choir.” Studies of the lives of some of these early blues musicians reveal the danger of violence inherent in their rootless lifestyles. Robert Johnson (1911-1938) was poisoned, while Son House spent time in jail for murder.

Lyrics of these first blues songs were concerned with the hard realities of existence. These early and often anonymous composers did not protest against segregation but subtly described the social and living conditions of the group at the bottom of society. Songs were written about encounters with the law (“High Sheriff Blues”), battles with alcoholism (“Canned Heat Blues”), and other struggles.

ON THE SCENE ART

Tommie Robinson Exhibition. Edward M. Smith Gallery of the Visual Arts Center. All week. Davidson.

Kenneth Noland Exhibit. William H. VanEvery Gallery of the V.A.C. All week. Davidson.

Jerald Melberg Gallery: Morrocroft Village, 3900 Colony Road (Across from South Park). Featuring works by Wolf Kahn, Id Kohlmeyer, Herb Jackson and others. Call 365-3000.Blues”), unrequited love (“Traveling Riverside Blues”), freedom of movement (“Big Road Blues”) and deals with the devil (“Crossroad Blues”). The blues developed from a tradition of oppression, and these songs dealt with this oppression in many different ways. As bluesman John Lee Hooker says, “It’s somewhere down the line that you have been hurt some place.... It’s not only what happened to you—it’s what happened to your foreparents and other people.” This rural form of the blues that developed in the Mississippi Delta was gradually transplanted to urban areas such as Chicago where the style of the music changed to reflect new experiences and concerns. Today, the blues have found a wider audience in popular singers who cover old blues standards. To see where the music is now, try to see a show sometime. If you can’t get to a club in Chicago, go to the Double Door in Charlotte. Or catch a Blues Monday performance in the 900 Room. The blues are a living piece of history, and it is important to remember where they came from.

Sources: The Origin of the Blues and Boastfulness in the Early Delta Blues. This article was originally written for Dr. McMillen's New South class.

Spirit Square Galleries. “The Space Between” black and white photo montage by Kristina Rogers. “Players: Contemporary Costume Designers,” “The Weight of the World,” sculpture by Jeffrey Goll, and “Rumors,” a visual and audio exhibit by Mary Hill and Cartie Knowles. Call 372-9664 for more details.

MISCELLANEOUS/SPEAKERS
Silver Jewelry Sale. Union Lobby. Mon, Tues, 9-5.
Coffeehouse. Tues, Dec. 7 in the morning. 900 Room. 8:30-11:00 a.m.
Campus Christmas Party. Sponsored by the College Union. Tues, Dec. 7 at 9:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Campus Tree Lighting Ceremony and Carol Sing Chambers Lawn, Tues, Dec. 7 at 10:00 p.m.
Twenty-One Year Olds Night. Tues, Dec. 7 at 10:30 p.m. 900 Room.
CROP Lunch. Wed, Dec. 8 from 11:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. 900 Room.
Coffeehouse. Sat, Dec. 11 from 2-8 p.m. in the Outpost.
Storytelling on Patterson Court. Storyteller: E.J. Stewart. Location- BSC House, Sun, Dec. 12 at 4:00 p.m.
Christmas Vespers. Sun, Dec. 12 at 7:15 p.m. in the DCPC Sanctuary.

MUSIC
New Music by Davidson Students, Hodson Hall, Monday Dec. 6 at 7:30 p.m. Sponsored by the Music Dept.
Drink Small in concert. Sponsored by the IPC. Blues Monday. Dec. 6, Mon. in 900 Room at 9 p.m.
Bluegrass Night at the Outpost. Fri, Dec. 10 at 10:00 p.m. The Outpost.
John Hiatt. Dec. 8 at 8 p.m. Spirit Square, Charlotte. Call 372-7469 for more details.
Charlotte Pops: “Christmas Jubilee” Dec. 10 at 8 p.m. Blumenthal Performing Arts Center. Call 332-6136 for more info.
Singing Christmas Tree. Charlotte Choral Society. Dec. 10-12, Ovens Auditorium. Charlotte. Call 372-3600.

THEATER/DANCE/MOVIES
Theater Auditions for You’re a Good Man, Charlie Brown. Wed, Dec. 8 and Thurs, Dec. 9 from 7-9 p.m. Auditions are on campus, but I’m not sure where. This was my favorite musical when I was a kid. Can I say how sorry I am that I’m going abroad next semester and am going to miss it?
Raising Arizona. Wed, Dec. 8 at 9:30 p.m. and Fri, Dec. 10 at 10:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.
The Nutcracker. North Carolina Dance Theater. Dec. 16-18 and Dec. 22. At the North Carolina Blumenthal Performing Arts Center. Call 372-1000 or 522-6500.

-Rachel Newcomb