ARTS MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1993

Portrait of an artist: Josh Harris is a promising young one
By Josh Larned

Upon first coming to Davidson, Josh Harris regarded his love of drawing as little more than a hobby to be
pursued during a boring high school class. However, his true passion for the visual arts quickly blossomed after his exposure
to the college’s studio art program. Today, Harris has earned the reputation as one of the department’s most promising senior
majors.

What remains unique about Harris is the fact that he has no penchant for any particular medium. Although he works
predominantly in charcoal, acrylic, and oil, the exploration of varying techniques is quite simply, in his own words, “something I
enjoy doing.” Such enjoyment is highly evident in Harris’s works which are indiscriminately plastered around the walls of his studio.
Close examination of these works demonstrates the artist’s keen interest in exploring the human form. Sketches of legs, arms, faces,
torsos, and whole bodies reveal Harris’s laborious attempts to recreate man’s physical structure. “I have spent most of my time
studying the human figure as a subject,” remarks the soft-spoken artist.

However, Harris’ art does not read simply like an anatomy book. He seeks to employ this examination of physique in
order to better understand the human as a living organism. As a result, figures are set in motion and placed
in an array of positions with the result of conveying action and movement to the viewer.

Harris is currently working on preparations for an exhibition in which all senior studio art majors have to participate during
the spring semester. At this point, he is not yet sure if he is going to pursue any long-term artistic
plans after college. However, one thing remains an absolute certainty: what Harris sees as a pastime, others have come to
perceive as enormous potential.

Noland's abstract art displayed in the VAC
By Josh Larned

Now through December 15, the Visual Arts Center is playing host to exhibits from modern abstract artists Kenneth Noland and
Tommie Robinson. Noland, a native of Asheville, is regarded as one of the leading pioneers in abstract painting. Influenced by
the avant-garde movement and the works of Miro, Matisse, and Picasso, Noland formed the “Washington School” in the early 1960s,
along with artists Morris Louis and Helen Frankenthaler.

According to Davidson professor Shaw Smith, the leaders within this movement attempted to “stain their raw canvases allowing the accidental
combinations of gravity and paint veils of color which floated across the surface like the improvised harmonies of jazz.” Indeed
the artist’s exhibit, entitled “Noland’s Nolands” certainly reflects a strong commitment to color. “Across,” is one of a few works
in the exhibit that employs the use of the chevron to demonstrate how color penetrates the space of the canvas,
thus creating a living form. “Reef,” which consists of horizontal parallel stripes, truly resembles an ecosystem by exploring the interactivity
of color value (the relation of one part in the picture to another with respect to lightness and darkness).

Across the hall lies Robinson’s exhibit of “Unseen People.” Robinson, a Charlotte native, focuses upon conveying the stories of individuals
deemed to be misfits in modern society. Each of his subjects are unique and personal, as the artist pays close
attention to facial composition and expression. This technique is evident in “Three Wise Men,” a study of aged homeless men,
whose demeanors exude sage-like qualities. As a result, the artist allows viewers to attempt to understand a person they would
not ordinarily identify with on a daily basis.

These superb exhibits will not be around for much longer. Those interested should therefore get down to the V.A.C. before
it’s too late. The two make for an illuminating study break. Both galleries are open from 10-4 on weekdays and
2-5 on weekends.

Origins of the blues
“I will say that the blues is an expression of the so-called negro in America. Of his hard tribulations that
he had. . . . See, this people they had so much torment, lynched, burned, tarred and feathered, and then
they have sung sadder blues than we could ever imagine, in this daytime, you see.” - Lonesome Jimmy Lee
By Rachel Newcomb

Many people are not aware that some of the music we listen to today was not written by the artists
we currently hear performing it. The Allman Brothers didn’t write “One Way Out” or “Statesboro Blues.” The Grateful Dead weren’t
responsible for “Goin’ Down the Road Feelin’ Bad,” “Bertha,” “Smokestack Lightnin’” or “C.C. Rider.” Eric Clapton and Led Zeppelin enjoy
aWide audience for songs like “Alberta” and “Traveling Riverside Blues,” which, when those songs were written in the early part
of the century, once took quite a different form. Much of popular music today owes a great debt to this
form of music known as “the blues.” It is difficult to define exactly what “the blues” means. As a song
form, it first appeared in the last decade of the 19th century. With elements of both slave and African culture,
the blues as an oral tradition took root in rural, poverty-stricken areas of the South. Despite the Civil War and
Reconstruction, blacks at the end of the 19th century still found themselves denied almost all the human freedoms which whites
took for granted. In the Mississippi Delta where most blacks were sharecroppers, a folk song known as the blues arose.
In the early years, the blues were essentially rural in character. They reflected the day-to-day hardships of blacks as they
struggled to survive against an oppressive white culture. For subject matter, these early folk blues songs covered a wide range
of topics such as: prison, railroads, jobs, sorrows, rootlessness and travel, lost love, and sexuality. Many blues songs contained boastful
lyrics that exaggerated masculinity. The term “blue” was first used by the English in the 1500s to describe troubled emotions.
In the United States, blues author William Barlow writes, the word “blues” was first used in the early 1800s to
describe “a mood of low spirits and emotional stress.” By the end of Reconstruction, southern blacks used the term to
describe a new type of folk song that was beginning to appear. These songs expressed the trials and tribulations of
everyday life in the rural South. Despite their source in sorrow and hardship, the blues are not completely pessimistic, as
author Richard Wright attests. “Their burden of woe and melancholy is dialectically redeemed through sheer force of sensuality, into an
almost exultant affirmation of life, of love, of sex, of movement, of hope.” For their form, early folk blues took
a pattern of three-line, twelve-bar stanzas. Lyrics often employed the use of metaphors and could sometimes be extremely poetic. Accompanying
the vocalist, instruments included guitar, fiddle, banjo, harmonica, and bass. Musically, the blues have many influences. It is believed that
West African griots, solo tribal singers who pluck string instruments, were the ancestral forefathers of the music. Antebellum Negro spirituals
and

See Blues on page 12

Screen Scene

No doubts about Mrs. Doubtfire

Hey, word up! I hope everyone had a great Turkey Day holiday. If y’all were anything like me, after stuffing
yourselves for several days with food you took some downtime and headed out to the theaters to catch a flick—maybe
a good comedy to help you laugh off some of those pounds you gained. There were several out there this
holiday to pick from, but as for myself, I chose to see the highly anticipated Robin Williams picture Mrs. Doubtfire.
This is the first film out from Robin’s new production company and if it is any indication of what’s to
come, he’s got a successful future ahead of him. In this Williams vehicle, our favorite Genie plays none other than
a voice actor (cinematic irony or what?) who has recently been canned. If losing a job weren’t traumatic enough for
him, he’s also going through a messy divorce from his wife (Sally Field) who’s just gotten full custody of their
three children. The wife, a successful businesswoman, now needs a nanny to watch after the kids until she gets home
from work. Here’s the catch (in case you haven’t heard it already). Williams, posing as a 60-year-old British woman, lands
the job hoping that in this way he can be close to his kids. Everything is going fine until complications
arise: his ex-wife now has a new love interest (Pierce Brosnan) and his day job at a local television station
turns into a possible career as the host of his own show. I did have some minor gripes with this
one: the lack of any supporting acting, a contrived script with a shaky plot, and the extreme exploitation of the
“man in drag” thing just to name a few (playing Aerosmith’s “Dude (Looks Like a Lady)” during a scene modeled
after Tom Cruise’s Risky Business dance number seemed a little much). But then I remembered: this is Robin. This one-man-show
didn’t let any of these things hinder him and they don’t make this film any less entertaining. In fact, it’s
a riot (thanks to Williams). Bound to be a hit this holiday season, I strongly recommend the flick to anyone
seeking a good time. Extremely funny and easily digestible, this is one movie well worth the price of admission and
popcorn and Coke.
