OPINIONS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1993

Feuer: A Davidson education in the real world
By Alex Crumbley

This summer America witnessed the suicide of the Clintons’ deputy legal counsel Vince Foster, a Davidson graduate and distinguished Arkansas
lawyer. Reports indicate that the pressure and relentless warfare of Washington politics drove him to his death and that the
media and partisan attacks on the Clinton administration were just too much for him.

The exact circumstances surrounding his death may forever be unknown, but the terrible fact of Washington’s slanderous and ruthless political
climate, a climate turbulent enough to drive a man to take his own life, is something which anyone can see.

Some of us may feel a kinship with Foster simply because he went to Davidson, but our sympathies should lie
deeper than that. Foster’s disillusionment and death should not only sadden us but alarm us as U.S. citizens whose government
has strayed far away from the principles which were meant to guide it. It should also raise an important question
for all of us: how broad is the gulf between the idealism which liberal arts schools like Davidson teach us
and the harsh reality of the outside world?

Idealism is inextricably intertwined with a liberal arts education. At Davidson we learn to act with honor, we study philosophers
concerned with the best mankind can accomplish, and we learn to live together in an atmosphere of trust and respect.
Foster and I heard the same Honor Code presentation when we were freshmen. Like many of us, he probably sat
in a humanities or an ethics class one day and promised himself that he would leave Davidson and try to
make the world a better place. Foster most likely left Davidson with the same high ideals that Davidson instills in
most of its students.

After Davidson, he graduated first in his class from law school at the University of Arkansas and became a prominent
Little Rock lawyer. A little later in his life, he was presented with an opportunity most of us will never
be lucky enough to have. A boyhood friend of his became President, and Foster suddenly had the chance to travel
to Washington and make a real difference. But Washington crushed him. The media hounds, accusing him of dishonesty and corruption,
tried to defame his character and drag his name through the mud like it does all national figures. I see
a man like Foster drown in Washington’s stormy sea of accusations, rumor-spreading, and deceit, and I wonder how many of
us, having come of age in the same environment as he, would react in the same situation.

Other factors may have contributed to his suicide, but the fact is that Washington drives many honest, altruistic spirits away
because they cannot handle the insidiousness involved in national politics. Has idealism become obsolete? Kennedy and Carter were our last
two presidents who were seen as idealistic. Kennedy was killed after three years in office, and Carter was defeated in
1980, heavily ridiculed for his unrealistic goals like decreasing nuclear weapon production. Bush belittled the Democratic party’s agenda last year
by calling it “the vision thing.” It seems that our society now dismisses ideals as something about as useful to
us out of the classroom as calculus.

A country without leaders of vision is like a ship without a captain. Washington has become so destructive that we
have fewer and fewer captains who are willing to suffer the slings and arrows of politics to help guide us
in the right direction. It is our duty as liberally educated citizens and future public servants to put some ideals,
especially integrity, back into the forefront of our national consciousness and make Washington a more temperate place for people who,
like Vince Foster, cannot compromise their principles for the sake of political expediency.

Semester in Exile...
Chris Frampton

Holy Moses! He's back
By Chris Frampton

Davidson College is facing a crisis that threatens to hit at the heart of the very foundations of its being.
A crisis of epic proportions looms large on the horizon, and the student body must take steps now to find
a way to deal with the emotional trauma that is sure to result. Counseling centers must be set up. A
24-hour suicide hotline must be opened. Classes should spend time focusing simply on the questions that will surely arise from
what must now be told. I can delay no longer in relaying what will surely send the huddled Davidson masses
heading for the beer coolers and old bottles of rum. I must tell you what has already passed, with unanimous
approval in a small, hidden, batcave in Chambers. The Executive Committee has made a decision that will surely affect all
of those who have had any contact, no matter how minimal, with this once illustrious school.

They kicked my butt out.

Now calm down. It will be OK. And there is an upside: I now will be able to write a
weekly opinion column full of insight into important aspects of our student life at this once illustrious college. (Freshmen: you
do not know who I am. Well, some of the girls do but we’re not running...Pictures of ourselves this week
so you think my name is Howdy Coonley. Anyway, you will know, but part of becoming a real Davidson person
is to get past being a little puny punk with no clue what’s going on or where you are or
how to go to sleep without your mother singing Guar songs in a soft, comforting, oedipal sort of way. Part
of the unbelievably moronic reasoning behind my “Semester Off” is that I must suffer the consequences of my actions. This
means that I must have done something wrong so I figured I’d hand out some advice. Hopefully, this can help
everyone, not just freshmen, for I have certainly been a perfect student during my tenure in Davidson.

Tip #1: If you have a test (I don’t use the word review because a review is what you do
before you take a test. According to this Davidson word, you must take a test to get ready for a
review which is stupid, stupid head) go to the refrigerator and get a few twelves of Milwaukee’s Best Light and
guzzle, shotgun, funnel, beer bong, inject, or bathe in their contents. The result will be a light-headed feeling that tends
to encourage you to head into some girl or guy’s room where you do things you probably shouldn’t. In the
morning you wake up with your arm stuck under whoever you slept with and start to feel like a coyote
in a trap. You'd rather gnaw off your arm than wake up the person laying on it. Now I know
you are wondering, “If I am drunk won’t I perform poorly on this incredibly interesting Spanish test I have to
take to graduate from this once illustrious college?” The answer is, quite obviously, “No.” If you just stay drunk, you’ll
do fine.

Tip #2: Class is overrated. If you go to class, you will just be bored. Class is not important, what
is important is to sleep. Get plenty even if it means you have 47 absences. You can just say, “Dad,
I need sleep to do well.”

Tip #3: I’m sick of trying to come up with tips. Listen, the most important thing to remember to do
is fulfill all requirements the college has. If they say “DIG!” Just answer, “Where to?”

In the future, I’ll give more advice, so if you have any questions, just write to me at P.O. Box
219, Davidson, NC, 28036. Or just bring a letter by the Davidsonian office which is hidden in the catacombs of
torture in the Union. Thanks for your time and take your core requirements.

SIGNE PHILADELPHIA DAILY NEWS
Distributed by Tribune Media Services

A few words from the National Freshmen Awareness Seminar
By Tony Tuntasit

I was looking for my 12¢ Bic Rollerball pen when my music professor walked in, grumbled, and then proceeded to
explain to the class that it was a Davidson tradition to applaud the professor wildly when he first set foot
in the class. He left and seconds later returned. Suddenly, several guys actually got up and gave the man a
standing ovation complete with clapping, circular hand gesticulations, foot stomping, and several “QOOOHGAH!!!”s. And while these transients from Arsenio’s DOG
POUND were cheering, my friends and I could only roll our eyes, shake our heads in disbelief and share a
solitary thought, “Boy, the freshman class sure is big.”

Actually, I laud their enthusiasm. While it lasts. Freshmen face many problems when entering college, ranging from homesickness (bad food),
teachers with nicknames like “Smiling F,” acne (bad food), astronomical phone bills ($163.14), the unadulterated freedom to shower every fourth
Sabbath and, of course, the fact that they look like freshmen. At the National Freshman Awareness Seminar, the top question
asked by freshmen was the question that boggled even good old Einstein, “How do we keep the upperclassmen from figuring
out that we’re freshmen?”

EINSTEIN: Eine vitternrbraue nincomputen beskenbraken fraulespeken. YUK! YUK! YUK!
Translation: I don’t know because I never went to college and never had to be a goony freshman. HA! HA!
HA!

Actually, this is a very serious issue amongst freshmen. The National College Magazine says that in order to assimilate better
into the college environment a freshman should take the following steps:
1. Don’t wear high school memorabilia like the letterman jacket, the gold-plated class ring, the “1993 Des Moines High School
Monster Truck Quilting Bee Champion” T-shirt or anything else that might indicate that you just stepped off the secondary school
bus.
2. Ask several questions in class even if they seem silly. For example: “Is Biology 113 a requirement for pre-med?,"
“Could you repeat that last thought about Nasal Glands?," “We live on Earth, right?”
3. Just be cool. Results may vary, though.

But life has gotten a lot easier for freshmen here at Davidson. A few years ago a freshman had to
endure things like freshmen ID Tags, the Davidson Beanie, hazing, and of course the big ol’ Conduct List of Freshmen
Regulations. These rules (1920-1969) were made to make sure the freshmen remember that they’re still just a bunch of buttheads.

Rule #1. Freshmen must know...

See Tony on page 9.
