16

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1993

Photo by Mike Wang

South Carolina prepares for Cal State's penalty kick during Friday's semifinal game. S.C. won 1-0.

UVa takes 3rd straight NCAA championship

Soccer continued from page 14

had only 4 shots. South Carolina got the first shot of the game after 28 minutes of play when junior Chris Faklaris had a breakaway that ended in a save. Virginia would not get its first shot until 6 minutes later when Silvera got a good look at the goal, only to be denied by Gamecock goalie David Turner. The Cavaliers would not be denied much longer as they took the lead with 5 minutes left in the 1st half when Mike Fisher placed a corner kick beautifully and the Carolina defense allowed Friends to slice in front of their fullbacks, heading the ball in for a 1-0 halftime lead.

South Carolina would get its chances, the best when Steve Pier had a breakaway 18 minutes into the second half, but Jeff Causey made two outstanding saves in a row to preserve the lead. South Carolina would get yet another excellent scoring opportunity when Billy Clifford dribbled past the Cavalier goalie, but a UVa defender managed to sweep in and prevent the shot.

The Cavaliers' 2nd goal put the championship in their pocket. Appropriately, Nate Friends scored on a beautiful volley set up by a Fisher direct kick.

Coach Bruce Arena summed up the entire tournament and his team's success this way: "The sport of soccer is the toughest to win with its low scoring and ability to allow an upset. If you survive this tournament, you are the best team in college soccer, we've done that for three years in a row now."

Maybe not next year. The Cavaliers might make room for a new national champion with the probable exit of Claudio Reyna. Maybe that champion will be the Wildcats.

Coach reminisces on year

Landis continued from page 14

“They upped their game to make up for that. They kept up the good play, which all goes back to us saying ‘No Excuses.’”

But how did this hard-nosed football guy make such an impression in his first season on a program that saw a number of less successful years recently?

He says he just picked up the ball from Fagg’s years and ran with it. Perhaps more importantly, though, he made the game more fun for the players.

“He made it exciting,” senior Frank Houghton said. “He brought the fun back into football. ... Also at his young age, it’s easier for the players to relate to him and for him to relate to us.”

Winning is about the only philosophy Landis will claim to possess, and winning makes the game more fun.

So while the seeds for this year’s success may have been sown under Fagg from the last couple of years, it was still up to Landis to motivate the players to stop talking about winning and actually doing it.

“It is easy to talk about being successful, and what I’ve learned is to never let your guard down,” he said. “I don’t want to talk about winning, but rather just go out and do it.

“Let’s go out and win the game, instead of saying we can win. It comes down to a commitment, then you have to go out and prove yourself.”

The players took hold of that idea and applied it well to their collective game.

“This whole year was basically go out and execute and get the job done,” Houghton said. “The other stuff would take care of itself. We worked hard, gave 110 percent every time out, knowing that the scoreboard would take care of itself. That was what we wanted to do in every practice, every game, every meeting, everything that we did all year.”

Not one to rest on his laurels, Landis has goals of his own, one in particular.

He wants to coach at an Ivy League school, perhaps Princeton, where growing up, he learned of the nearly perfect mix of academics and athletics at work.

“I dream all the time,” Landis said. “And you have to go out and try to reach those goals. I certainly have aspirations of moving up. But that’s something I have to earn.”

A further part of the appeal is that athletic programs in Ivy League schools are similar to Davidson’s and Landis’ alma mater, Randolph Macon.

“When you’re playing football at this level, it’s because you love the game,” Landis said, “not because you have aspirations of the NFL. You’re playing for all the right reasons.”

©1993 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved.

Macintosh LC 520 5/80, internal AppleCD™ 300i CD-ROM Drive, Apple Keyboard II and mouse.

Macintosh LC 475 4/80, Apple Color Plus 14” Display, Apple Keyboard II and mouse.

Buy a Macintosh now and you can organize your time, straighten out your notes or go completely ballistic.

Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal. Now, when you buy any select Macintosh® or PowerBook® computer, you'll also receive seven software programs. It’s all included in one low price. And the software package alone has a combined SRP value of $596. It was designed to give you the kinds of programs you need most. Programs to organize your time and money. And some programs just for fun. So, why buy an Apple® computer? It does more. It costs less. It’s that simple.

Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more information.
Visit Computer Services Center
Contact Kim Kenyon at x2432

The Apple logo, Macintosh and PowerBook are registered trademarks.