THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1993

A realistic notion about life after Davidson
By Stephen Faller

Last week, I got some mail regarding the fact that for seniors “Life After Davidson Is Just Around the Corner.”
Admittedly, it is good to plan ahead, although I see something else at work here. Yes, the future awaits. However,
this news is not so new. Already, I have heard many warnings of the end of life as I have
known it. Soothsayers, alumni, co-workers, and other assorted prophets have all predicted the coming of reality. They have all done
their best to convince me that I know nothing of the real world. I have heard that the real world
is a place where idealism disintegrates into a joke. And what bothers me most is that to my eyes it
seems there is a growing belief that only “after Davidson is life.”

An example of this rising belief is the appeal of the conversation piece: what one is going to do with
“life after Davidson.” So, for all of you who are convinced of my naivete, it won’t bother you for me
to say what I think of this reality. I think a scarier work than Huxley’s Brave New World would be
Scared Real World. Reality is a resignation for most folks. A place where “ideally” nothing happens, and only compromises transpire.
Reality (economic pressure, lack of jobs, whatever) is supposedly keeping people from living their dreams, but I wonder if people
haven’t gotten too timid to dream. The most common explanation I have been given as to why people in the
real world are unhappy is that collegiate know-it-alls like me can’t understand it, which explains nothing but pins the blame
on me.

I recently went to a high school graduation, and for some, graduation wasn’t too long ago. Each key speaker was
bold and hopeful about moving into the next phase of life.

Blame it on Texas
I’m not whistlin' 'Dixie,' and you can't make me
By Susanna Young

Upon meeting me, people usually notice that I am a generally laid-back person, but that there are a few things
that I absolutely refuse to do at any time, under any circumstances. For example, I refuse to write columns centering
around tips for freshmen. You all deserve to struggle through this year on your own, just like everybody else did.
Another thing I refuse to do is whistle “Dixie.” So my column isn’t just for freshmen, and I’m not going
to whistle.

My job, then, is to impart unto all the readers of the South’s foremost weekly my knowledge of and commentary
on the great North American form of artistic expression known as country and western music. Great, you say. Another literate
redneck trying to convince us that all Americans are directly descended from Charlie Daniels. This is not true. I feel
it is my mission - my duty, if you will - to get you to at least give country music
the old college try. I have compiled a few good reasons:

1) The message. Everyone feels sorry for himself at one time or another. Tune your radio to country for about
an hour, and I guarantee that you will hear your life story at least once and will be singing along
by the third time you hear the chorus.
2) Texas. Willie Nelson, Waylon Jennings, Barbara Mandrell, Clint Black, and Tanya Tucker, just to name a few country greats
that my state has produced.
3) The artists’ names. Okay, so I’m not going to name my first-born Wynonna, but at least country music singers
and bands don’t name themselves after hardware store inventory, bodily afflictions, or some other things I might contract from using
public restrooms and not washing my hands. Also, isn’t it great to be able to answer who your favorite musician
is without being sent to your room for using “that kind of language” in front of your great-aunt Ethel.
4) Tennessee. I guess I need to mention them, too. After all, they did send thirty volunteers, including a coonskin-capped
ex-congressman to help us out at the Alamo. Lot of good that did, too.
5) But the greatest reason to start listening to country music NOW is that, recently, Garth Brooks is referred to
as “a multimedia megastar,” which means that we as country music listeners no longer have to claim him.

Random thoughts from a Framp
continued from page 8

All he can do is print what his writers give him. So where does that leave the blame? Most likely
with the writers who seem to get drunk as wildebeests (sorry — couldn’t avoid the topic of drinking) before they
write each week. Sure there are some serious articles about serious things, although I’m not sure what because I never
read them. Basically, it appears that one of us columnists is going to have to step up and get some
taste. It isn’t going to be me.

So I want to finish up this little article with what is undoubtedly a tired and old series of jokes.
I want to talk about hooking up. Why? Because I like it. And who doesn’t? Winning on to some chick
(or boy) is just about the best way in the world to relieve some pressure. Of course, for people like
the freshmen guys and myself, and judging by the overtly sexual content of this section, the rest of the columnists,
UNCC 49er hooking up is not really an option. But for some it is, and I want to encourageHere is
the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

All of you to hook up a lot. That’s it for this week. Remember to take your core requirements. Although,
I also might remind you to actually pass those core courses when you take them. Beg as you might, the
executive committee won’t give you credit for them if you don’t get like a “C” or a “D,” I’m not
sure which you need. Maybe I should figure that out before I come back. Everyone felt great and spoke of
now being a part of the real world. These high school seniors felt that for the first time, all of
the barriers preventing them from living in the real world were removed. What are those barriers? Living at home? A
bad school? Who knows? But, tragedy of tragedies, they get out and discover that they are not in the world
for which they were headed. Once again, they are in some other world aside from the real one. So why
isn’t Davidson the real world? They told us it would be. Who lied? Maybe no one lied. Maybe behind all
the fun and games, reality has been there all along as crazy as that seems. But something comes up; a
party, a boyfriend or girlfriend, dorm life, Patterson Court, whatever, and we have been prevented from living in the actual
world. But never fear, there is always a newer and more real world around the corner. So where does this
leave us? Well, I assert the following. Contrary to popular opinion, my right to live does not depend on the
completion of a final year of drunken frivolity. What makes my spiritual well-being, my very aliveness, hinge on my after-Davidson
existence that it doesn’t hinge on now? Now is my opportunity to scrutinize over life. Perhaps those people who desire
to postpone their living until graduation are secretly hoping to so clutter their minds by becoming yet another cog in
a corporate machine such that they will never have to examine life, but this is just a suspicion. I live
now, this is my time to be and to think and go about my life. Who dares tell me otherwise?
I shall live where I am, and that is here.

Winning Back Washington

Elections should be funded publicly

A couple of weeks ago I wrote concerning the lack of idealism and vision in the United States government, and
I said that it is our duty as America’s future leaders to put some values and ideals back into our
national consciousness. Since then, I’ve been asked by several students to offer a suggestion about how exactly to accomplish this
task. My response: fund all Congressional elections from the public treasury. This suggestion may sound absurd in a time of
increased taxes and soaring national debts, but I urge you to consider the possible benefits of the idea. A governmental
system like ours, dominated by special interests and fueled by greed, simply cannot protect the interests of its people. Our
most honest and altruistic public servants are consistently driven out because they cannot garner enough PAC money during their terms
to defeat an opponent armed with the financial support of the richest lobbies. Politicians are basically responsible not to the
people but to the special interest groups. Those politicians who are willing virtually to sell their votes to gain re-election
campaign money are rarely defeated. This pattern is so stable that many people have come to accept that the good
guys always lose in politics, not even questioning the ways in which our system supports such a trend. The problem
is money. Our entire country supports, either actively or passively, a group of people who, rather like buzzards, make their
livings as scavengers of the filthy and the rotten. Many of them are politicians looking for money; others are interest
groups looking for easily influenced politicians; others are media hounds who stay alive digging up whatever they can to hurt
the politicians. Presently, taxpayers pay one dollar on a volunteer basis to fund the general presidential election. For less than
ten dollars each, we could fund the U.S. House and Senate campaigns also, remove the bargaining chips from the special
interest groups on Capitol Hill, and regain the people’s voice in the political process. For many reasons, Congress would not
favor such an idea. Like the term limitation bill and the Grace commission which both have come up in the
last few years, it would fail because career politicians are unwilling to legislate away their own power. Experienced Congressmen who
have spent years developing their stature and cultivating their relationships with different PACs would be especially loath to the idea
of publicly funded elections. The only way such a bill would pass would be if the people absolutely demanded it.
We should. Of course, public campaign funding would not solve everything, but it would level the playing field for non-career
politicians and allow the people to be informed fairly and evenly about their choices at election time. It would allow
our public officials to spend less time politicking and more time thinking about what America really needs. And, hopefully, it
would give the good guys a chance to win again.
