THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, APRIL 19, 1993

Davidson's Housekeeping Staff Deserves More Respect
By Marilyn Ambroise

Many African-American men and women have given years of their lives to Davidson. These great men and women see to
it that the buildings on this campus remain in top condition. But I am afraid that the college community is
oblivious of this fact. Why do I say this? I'll tell you.

I cannot begin to tell you about the amount of pressure that the housekeeping department gets. Often the staff is
required to do certain things that most of us could not imagine doing. For instance, a few weeks ago, several
used condoms were evenly distributed along the third-floor stairwell in Duke. The individuals responsible for this act were not held
responsible for picking up the condoms—the housekeeping staff was.

The fact that the housekeeping department is predominantly African-American does not mean that they should have to be looked down
on and treated like trash. Often people say, “Your first impression is your last.” Well, without the housekeepers, Davidson would
not be able to make a good first impression. No one wants to come to a dirty school. Yes, I
understand that some of you have maids at home, but that is irrelevant. Respect is the relevant issue here.

The housekeeping staff is not here to clean your spit off of the walls or to pick up your sanitary
napkins. You owe them the same respect that you owe your parents. Since I have witnessed the tremendous amount of
disrespect towards the housekeeping staff, I feel comfortable to assume that you don’t respect your parents and more importantly, you
don’t respect yourself. But of course, there are others to blame for these problems.

The reason why the disrespectful attitude towards the housekeeping department continues is the same reason why many problems at Davidson
continue. That is, the people that have the authority to do something just sit on their backsides and do nothing.
When you decide that the best way to handle one violating the respect of another is to fine the perpetrator,
who for the most part is middle to upper-middle class, you are not doing anything. In fact, the only thing
you may be doing is perpetuating the notion that one can do what he/she pleases and get out of it
with the right amount of money.

It discomforts me to know that Davidson considers itself to be a religious institution, yet acts such as the above
stated continue. I am discouraged, disappointed, and disgusted. Ask yourself, “Would I appreciate it if my mother had to clean
spit off walls or pick up chewing tobacco off of stairwells?” I am sure that your answer is no. Thus,
in conclusion, the housekeepers have given a lot to Davidson and deserve much more respect than they are currently receiving.

Seay Rations... Very, Very Random Thoughts
By Nathan Seay

Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to the last episode of Seay Rations this semester. I apologize for not being present last
issue; it wasn’t my fault. I guess that censorship article struck a little too close to home. Anyway, I’ll get
to the point.

I’ve been sitting around trying to come up with some super snappy article to keep you laughing through the summer,
but, alas, I couldn’t. What I’m gonna talk about this week is all the things that have been on my
mind this semester.

I studied in Wales last summer, which gave me several opportunities to become, um, acquainted with sheep. I had never
really seen (or smelled) a sheep up close and personal before. Anyone who tells you that sheep are cute and
cuddly creatures obviously never saw one before. Let me describe to you how to make a sheep in your own
grocery store. Get a watermelon for its body. Jam four carrots in the melon for its legs. For its head,
use a can of refried beans. Before you attach the can to the melon, open it up and smear the
beans all over the opposite end. Then you have some idea of what a real sheep looks like. Hint: sheep
don’t have any toilet paper.

Some words really bother me. Take “yogurt,” for example. Who is the marketing genius who came up with this name?
When somebody says, “yogurt,” it always sounds like it should be vomit. Example: “Ah, man, I think I’m gonna yogurt.”
“Don’t yogurt on my carpet!” How can the people of the world continue buying something with this name? Have you
ever read a yogurt container? It actually says “contains active yogurt cultures.” What? They’re telling me that my yogurt is
alive? None for me, thanks. I saw the movie The Stuff. I have a general rule that no live microbodies
enter my mouth. I'll censor myself here by not continuing on this one.

Well, I’ve just about run out of room. I hope that you enjoyed this article. Anyway, have a safe and
happy summer. (Private note to the male freshmen: I promise you'll hook up next year. It won’t always be as
bad as this one).Services In Black and White

Malcolm X: His Life after Mecca
By Diedra Montague and Scott Windham

This week, we conclude with the philosophy of Malcolm X. In 1965, Malcolm X made the holy pilgrimage to Mecca,
which is the pinnacle of a Muslim’s religious experience. This journey, called Hajj, completely changed Malcolm’s approach to the Black
nationalist movement. During his journey, Malcolm came into contact with Muslims of many different races, including white Muslims, who all
acted as brothers and sisters worshipping the same God and treating each other as equals. The power and importance of
this period in Malcolm’s life cannot be overstated. He saw that not all white people were ‘blue-eyed devils,’ as he
had stated before, but that many were capable of brotherly relations with black people.

Upon his return to the United States, Malcolm began preaching his new philosophy. By this time totally disowned by the
Nation of Islam, Malcolm set up a new organization of Muslims. In contrast to his earlier stand that white people
could not be involved in the movement to advance the black race, Malcolm permitted whites to support the movement, though
they could not belong to all-black groups. This was largely because Malcolm correctly believed that no white person could truly
understand the situation of black people in America. However, he now believed that blacks and whites could successfully work together,
and that many whites were sincere in wanting to help in the advancement of black people. Instead of a philosophy
of mistrust, hatred, and separation, Malcolm X preached racial pride and cautious cooperation.

It is a shame that Malcolm X was assassinated at a point in his career when his new message could
have reached and helped thousands of Americans, black and white. Now he is remembered mostly for his caustic anti-white statements
of his pre-Hajj days, which he eventually refuted. Unfortunately, many people are unfamiliar with his late philosophy, and misrepresent the
man and his beliefs. Now, at a time when people state that King’s methods are outdated and turn instead to
the beliefs of Malcolm X, it is unfortunate that many of these same people misunderstand Malcolm’s true opinions.

This is our final article, our farewell in a sense. We leave our column in the capable hands of Tené
Moore and Chris Edmonston, who will continue where we have left off. Although some folks may not have agreed with
our opinions, we hope that the issues we have discussed this year will expand beyond a desk in a room
in Sentelle to the larger Davidson community, and will lead to the kind of discussion and interaction Malcolm X thought
was possible. We hope that we have inspired thought and communication. We sincerely believe that people are capable of ignoring
racial boundaries, even if they don’t ignore race. Challenge your own prejudices and those of people around you. Remember: we
say black people and white people, but take away the adjectives and we’re all just people.

Davidson, and all they ask in return is some respect and consideration. Nothing gives you the right to disrespect them.
Nothing. I don’t care how you were raised and what you have been told, you are not above them. And
you so-called Christians, of all people, should know this. At the second coming, we will not be separated according to
our races, financial status, or class. Instead, we will be separated according to how well we performed the Lord’s work.
The housekeeping department has and continues to take a lot from Davidson that I suspect most of you could not
handle if placed in the same situation. Yet they continue to love all of you, and they encourage me to
do the same. Now that is something worth honoring.

Gull's Nest... Freshman Lessons
By Bill Gullan

Here are the top twenty-eight things I have learned and/or observed throughout my first year in college:

1. Davidson is the best school in the country, and it’s superior to Duke without question.
2. The Cake Race is difficult to complete if you smoke during it.
3. I am an underachiever.
4. I smoke too much.
5. Nothing beats Betty Crocker.
6. When living on one’s own, get a roommate who buys soap in the “Enough for a small city” pack.
7. Whenever possible, have your windows open.
8. “Everything” is an unreal band.
9. The ACC is annoying.
10. Professors here are far to the left. (Hint: If you keep going left, you'll go in a complete circle).
11. Not too many people read this paper thoroughly.
12. Computers are terrible.
13. “Gull’s Nest...” is a tacky name.
14. Fraternities are being wrongly criticized and blamed for things every day.
15. Speech 101 is a terrific class.
16. John Wayne is the greatest actor ever.
17. Orientation is too long.
18. Cigarettes should be sold on campus.
19. Norton is the man.
20. The Spin Doctors aren’t played enough at Davidson.
21. The lake campus is cool.
22. Backstreet is heaven.
23. We had no conservative speakers.
24. Charlotte closes at 10 p.m.
25. The court is always muddy.
26. Sleeping isn’t necessary.
27. After a while, one dreams about Tetris and hears the music randomly while walking through Chambers.
28. I’m excessively longwinded.

That'll do it. Thanks for reading my column and not ridiculing me to my face or assaulting me on the
way back from the library. See you next year.
