THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1993

A Union board rejects cigarette machine, but smokers still have hope

By Jay Jennings

Although the Union board rejected the idea of cigarette machines in the Outpost, the possibility of cigarette machines on campus
in the near future is encouraging. The head of the Auxiliary Services Committee of the SGA asked Merrill Earnest, the
student head of the Union Policy Committee, to take the plan for cigarette machines to the Union Policy Committee last
week. The Committee approved the motion to have cigarette machines in the Outpost, but the Union board defeated the motion.

The members of the board feel that although there is a definite need for a cigarette machine on campus, the
Outpost is not the best place for it. There are concerns that if the machines were in the Outpost, the
Outpost would become smoke-infested. Some think that the ventilation in the Outpost cannot handle a great increase in the number
of smokers. According to Union board members, the cigarette machines would have an adverse effect on non-smokers because the smoke
could become a problem.

The board realizes the need for the machines to prevent people from driving places late at night on a quest
for cigarettes. However, Steve Krause, an anti-smoker, thinks that "it is good to force smokers to go off campus for
cigarettes, so the college is not helping smokers get their cigarettes."

In the upcoming week, Earnest will be thinking about an alternate spot for the machines and then go about the
appropriate steps to get the machines. Some suggest having the machines either in Chambers or the Union. The problem of
having the machines in the Union is that it closes at one o’clock.

Briefs

WIRE

Christian Music Controversy at NMU

MARQUETTE, Mich. (CPS)—Student funding will continue to back a Christian rock program on North Michigan’s University’s student station, WUPX-FM in
Marquette, Mich. The radio show, which is funded with student activity money, was in conflict with a university policy prohibiting
student activity money from being used to fund religious activities, detractors said.

The radio station receives about $9,700 a semester from student activity fees and a portion of this money is used
to fund the Christian rock programming. Station manager Kale Seagraves defended the Christian programming. He said the show is not
a religious activity and does not promote a specific religion. He said the station simply plays music that has won
music awards and is listened to by students with varied religious beliefs and backgrounds. Seagraves said that the show is
aired on Sunday from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. because the disc jockey was available during that time, and not
for religious reasons.

Dean of Students Sandra Michaels, also defending the programming, said the show is not a religious activity. "It’s just allowing
them (the radio station) to play all the rock music students find popular," Michaels said.

Jesuit Colleges Form Alliance

(CPS)—Students who attend Jesuit campuses have formed an organization to increase communication among their colleges and universities, student leaders in
the organization said. Jesuit University Students Concerned with Empowerment (JUSTICE) was started in 1992 as a link between the 28
Jesuit campuses nationwide. Its purpose is to help the students bond spiritually and allow them to develop friendships with students
in other Jesuit universities.

Each Jesuit University has JUSTICE meetings where the university’s issues can be addressed. Students talk about their concerns within the
university and discuss national concerns, such as multiculturalism. The organization also serves as a liaison for other campus groups that
could benefit from the topics discussed.

The main event of JUSTICE that brings its members together is its national convention, which was held this fall at
Spring Hill College in Mobile, Ala. About 40 students attended the convention. In addition to hearing speakers, the Jesuit students
chose a national issue to support for the upcoming year. Last year’s issue was AIDS awareness.

Medical School Applications Rise

CHICAGO (CPS)—The number of applications to medical school continues to rise despite the fact that many physicians express dissatisfaction with
practicing medicine, according to an article published in the Journal of the American Medical Association.

Between 1989 and 1992 the number of medical school applicants climbed 39 percent. The growing number of applicants is not
congruent with the current survey information that practicing physicians are dissatisfied with medicine and unsure about the outcome of the
health system reform, officials say.

In addition to an overall applicant increase, there was also an increase in the number of minorities and women being
accepted into medical school. There was a 12 percent increase in the number of minorities accepted to medical school in
1991, and the percentage of women in the 1992 entering class increased from 31.6 percent in 1982 to 41.8 percent.Many
smokers want cigarettes after this time. Chambers might be the best suggestion because people would always have access to the
machine. Brian Vandersea agrees because he feels that "cigarette smoke is most annoying while he is trying to eat." The
problem with Chambers is that it is not a central place on campus, according to Earnest. Suggestions are welcome because
more ideas will enable the students to be properly represented. Kamil Shah thinks that "everyone is dipping on campus now,
so what is the big deal." Kevin Miller "does not care about cigarette machines as long as smokers stay out
of designated non-smoking areas."

The library's smoking lounge clears when photographers enter. Photo by Laura Dennis.

Minorities, internationals, and disabled get help at career services
By Scott Windham

The addition of three new employees this semester has allowed the Office of Career Services to expand its services aimed
directly at Davidson’s “smaller populations,” namely minority students, internationals, and students with disabilities. These groups are also encouraged to use
the resources available to all students. Career Services continues to offer such resources as the Black Alumni Network and the
International Student Employment Guide. In addition, students now have access to a host of new services.

International students may profit from the International Student Career Network. This network contains files on Davidson alumni who are involved
in international careers or who were classified as internationals during their time at Davidson and will allow current international students,
as well as other students interested in international job opportunities, to contact alumni for informational interviews. Staff members note that
speaking with someone who “has been there” will greatly help international students with their career or graduate school plans.

Minority students benefit from a Career Services newsletter, delivered weekly to dorm rooms. Minorities who do not receive the newsletter
should call Scott Windham at -2132. The newsletter includes the calendar of events for the week and highlights job and
internship opportunities, job-finding books and magazines, and other items of interest aimed specifically at minorities, including graduate school and fellowship
information. Graduate schools who visit campus generally send information on minority admission, student groups, and special minority scholarships. Career Services
also publishes a guide to corporations and institutions interested in attracting minority candidates. Names and addresses of contact people are
listed in the guide. Minority students who are interested in internships should contact John Eaves for information on financial support.

Students with disabilities might be interested to know that Career Services receives copies of the Job Training and Placement Report,
a manual containing career-related information for disabled people. In addition, the office receives notices from institutions interested in assisting the
disabled in the job-finding process. Copies of the leaflet Test-Taking for Students with Disabilities, which addresses the regulations regarding graduate
school testing for physically and learning-disabled students, are available in the Careers Library. Students who think of services not currently
offered for the disabled are highly encouraged to call Career Services, -21372, to offer suggestions. Careers Library director Ann Melton
notes that the library contains many resources to assist Davidson’s smaller populations in the search for jobs, internships, and summer
employment. In addition to a shelf of books aimed at job-placement for minorities, the library keeps current copies of The
Black Collegian, Hispanic, VISTA, Equal Opportunity, People with Disabilities, and Affirmative Action Register magazines.

McNeil Smith to discuss reinventing a free Estonia
By Jeff Fuller

The Dean Rusk Program will present McNeill Smith, a 75-year-old partner in the Greensboro law firm of Smith Helms Mulliss
& Moore, who will speak about his experiences in Estonia. Smith’s speech “Can Estonia reinvent itself?” will be delivered on
Wednesday, November 17 at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 room. Smith was educated at the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill and the Columbia University Law School. Soon after passing the bar examination, Smith joined the U.S. Navy during
World War II. He later served in the North Carolina state house for one term in 1970 and was a
state senator from 1972 to 1978. He also ran for a seat in the U.S. Senate in 1978 against Jesse
Helms.

Recently, Smith traveled to Estonia to assist the country in its transition from communism to democracy in the realm of
law. “There are legal problems never before faced, much less solved, in any country,” said Smith. Working with the American
Bar Association, Smith sought to assist Estonian lawyers in forming new laws and helping Estonia enter a free-market economy. Some
problems Smith faced in Estonia include Estonia’s inexperience with marketing or finance, no antitrust laws, no bankruptcy laws, no consumer
protection laws, and no border control. However, Estonia does have a stable currency and the second highest literacy rate in
the world according to Smith.

Source: Triad Business News, November 8, 1993
