4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1993

Economist blasts government "theft"
By Wendy Lee

“Charity is very noble, but theft is not good,” was one way that Dr. Walter Williams illustrated that American government is stealing from some citizens to provide for others. Americans are slowly approaching “serfdom” to government. Dr. Williams, John M. Olin Distinguished Professor of Economics at George Mason University in Fairfax, Virginia, presented a speech Wednesday, November 10 at 8:30 in the Chambers Gallery entitled “Legitimate Role of Government in Free Society.”

Williams labeled taxes “government claims on private property” and noted that as time goes by, citizens own less of what they produce. Each year an American will work from January 1 to May 8 to cover the federal, state, and local taxes he or she will pay that year. Williams was concerned that Americans don’t have the right to define how the fruits of their labor are used.

Williams claimed that American government commits “legal theft” and “organized rape” by taking something from a citizen and giving it to a citizen to whom it doesn’t belong. He rejected the terms “income redistribution” or “transfer payments,” referring to them as “theft.” Williams spoke candidly with the audience of students, faculty, and guests, saying that the “noblest and most enriching characteristic of a person is greed” or “trying to get more for yourself.” By pursuing one’s own self-interest, one helps future generations.

He lauded the rise of capitalism because it has brought with it better treatment of women and racial minorities and has brought out a morality in people. Williams took several questions from audience members and stressed that he believes that government can be reduced to a limited form. He underscored the idea that Americans have given up so many liberties that the founding fathers bestowed upon them.

Addressing the issue of higher education, he noted that universities should not try to solve society’s problems but should focus on transmitting education from one generation to the next. He said that much of today’s ethnic conflict on college campuses was a result of policies such as quotas. Williams spoke out against several current government programs. He said that an important question that must be asked when offering government aid is, “What is my effect in helping this person on his incentive to help himself?” He said that America has the best medical care system in the world and doesn’t need socialized medicine. He also pointed out that national health care is not provided for in the Constitution. Social Security is immoral, he noted.

By Ashlyn Dannelly

Students may have wondered what has happened to student-produced programming on Channel 14. According to junior Andy Cole, DCTV director, DCTV should be more active next spring. Many students have seen DCTV’s current efforts displayed in the Pit of the Union, where a television showcases students’ study breaks, often humorous creations. Even though these two efforts appear to be successful, Cole looks forward to next semester, when he plans to have regular programming on Channel 14.

DCTV will plug into an inter-campus network, which provides programs such as soap operas, comedians, and music videos. These shows are produced by students from other schools. However, Cole still plans on using material produced by Davidson students. Cole doesn’t see a problem with this temporary outlet: “The Pit is basically entertaining traffic. It’s a good diversion to entertain and sometimes inform.”

While working with video can be fun, Cole also sees DCTV as a learning experience. Some past members of the group are now working in the TV industry. Cole says: “Once you know how to do it, it’s a lot of fun.”

Photo by Casey Rogers
Walter Williams addressed the role of government in a free society in the Gallery Wednesday night.because young people will pay thousands of dollars in and won’t see any money in return. He theorizes that this will cause class conflict between young and old. Pointing to a Davidson College student, Williams said that to break even with what you will have paid into Social Security, “you'll have to live to be 96.” Williams' talk was co-sponsored by the Young America’s Foundation and the Union Speakers Committee.

Bone marrow drive aims to add 300 to registry

Marrow continued from page 1

National Registry. Project Life works in conjunction with the Charlotte Red Cross. The process of typing a person’s bone marrow is a simple, painless procedure, entailing only a small blood sample. The sample is then taken to a medical laboratory to be typed for major antigens. The National Marrow Registry stores the lab results and performs searches on behalf of patients in need of transplants. A potential donor is not required to give their marrow if it matches, but as McEaddy says, “It’s not every day you get a chance to save a life.”

The odds of finding a marrow match within a victim’s family are 1 in 100, however these odds decrease to a 1 in 1,000,000 chance for a victim who must rely on the Registry for a match. Each additional name placed on the Registry increases the odds for a match.

Davidson College has a direct connection to the Bone Marrow Drive. Three students have received bone marrow transplants either from a relative or the National Registry: David Lindsay, John Ramey, and Stephen Keller. Junior Megan Snyder and graduate Julie Ferguson, whose names were placed on the Registry through Davidson’s bone marrow drive, were exact matches and were chosen to be marrow donors.

“The bone marrow drive is the most amazing opportunity to give a life. Nobody should be denied a bone marrow transplant when there is someone out there that has a potential match. Putting their name on the Registry is potentially giving someone that gift of life,” McEaddy remarked.

Each laboratory typing costs $60, paid by Davidson's Project Life through fundraisers and donations. Because of the need for minority volunteers, the Red Cross does not charge for their lab work. Davidson has raised $30,000 for this year's drive. After the drive, the focus turns to more fundraising.

BONE MARROW DRIVE
10:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m.
Wednesday, November 17
Morrison Room

The first 300 volunteers will be typed for free. The typing involves only a short time and a small sample of blood. Please have yourself typed and put on the registry. You could save someone's life.

DOMINO’S on the Green
HOURS: 4pm-12 midnight.

NEW ADDITIONS: Twisty Bread, Salad, Cheddar Cheese

Not valid with other offers. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery area limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. ©1993 Domino's Pizza Inc.

MEAL DEAL
$6.99 LARGE CHEESE PIZZA
(toppings 50¢ ea.)

No coupon necessary — Order 10 - Close Sunday-Thursday only

$8.99 2 MEDIUM PIZZAS FOR THE PRICE OF A LARGE
expires 11-21-93

$10.99 2 LARGE PIZZAS PLUS 1 TOPPING
expires 11-21-93

$14.99 2 LARGE PIZZAS WITH TWO OR MORE TOPPINGS
expires 11-21-93

DELIVERY AREA LIMITED TO INSURE SAFE DRIVING
LIMITED TIME ONLY ©1993 DOMINO'S PIZZA INC PARTICIPATING STORES ONLY