6 - THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1993

The Week in Washington

Brawling Senate passes Brady bill

By Brett Marston

In a fitting final week for the 103rd Congress, which has been marked by a series of bitter political battles
over controversial issues, the Senate voted to pass the Brady bill, which is now the most significant piece of gun
control legislation to pass Congress since the Gun Control Act of 1968.

“The Brady bill has passed,” declared Vice President Al Gore, according to the Congressional Quarterly. Named after Jim Brady, Reagan’s
press secretary who was wounded in the 1981 assassination attempt, the Brady bill has been an object of debate in
Congress for seven years.

In a voice vote on Nov. 24th, the Senate approved the conference report of the bill, which will require a
five-day waiting period for handgun purchases. The Senate had already approved its version of the bill three days earlier, but
when the final round of negotiations between the Senate and House began on Nov. 22, disagreement over additional restrictions and
stipulations threatened either to bring Congress back into session after Thanksgiving or to sink the bill entirely.

Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kansas, who led Republican opposition in the final hours of negotiations, finally agreed to support
the bill in the voice vote, however, after Senate leaders decided to discuss the additional stipulations in January when Congress
reconvenes. These stipulations include the provision that the bill will expire in four years, or become inactive 24 months after
the development of a federal instant check system to check the criminal records of handgun purchasers at the time of
sale.

Opponents of the bill have consistently argued that a waiting period for handgun purchases would be ineffective, and that lawmakers
should instead allocate the already scarce resources toward an automation of the federal criminal identification system. Some states already have
an “instant check” system for handgun purchases in place. In Virginia, for example, handgun dealers simply dial a toll-free number
to check if the purchaser has a criminal record, has been deemed mentally unstable, or is otherwise prohibited from legally
purchasing a handgun.

Proponents of the bill have claimed that although the effect of the bill might be minimal, many states, such as
Minnesota, have had success with similar measures. In addition, the computerization of federal records is already underway, but a waiting
period is necessary, they argued, until this process is complete.

“In Minnesota, all the state law enforcement organizations have passed resolutions in support of [a] seven-day waiting period,” declared Ken
Collins, police chief in Maplewood, Minnesota, “we have seen the Brady bill work for 17 years.” Collins spoke at hearings
held in Congress in March of 1991, when lawmakers were discussing a seven-day waiting period. His speech, as well as
many others from these debates, can be found in the June/July 1991 issue of the Congressional Digest.

In this December’s issue of the American Rifleman, the mouthpiece of the National Rifle Association (NRA), Wayne LaPierre, the NRA’s
executive vice president, claims that popular opinion is decidedly against gun control laws. “So I challenge the Administration, the Congress
and the media... Go ahead and trot out all the bizarre gun control schemes you can dream up,” LaPierre writes.
“Then we’ll meet you at the polls one year from today.”

At the heart of the debate over the Brady bill have been questions such as the constitutional “right of the
people to keep and bear arms,” which is part of the Second Amendment’s discussion of the militia, as well as
the question of whether or not gun control will actually contribute to a decrease in violent crime. On this point,
Brigadier General and Mrs. Jerry E. White said in the March 1991 discussion of the bill, “Will a... waiting period
make a significant difference? Realistically, a full answer cannot be given until after the law has been in place.” Let’s
hope that it does make a difference.

Sources used in researching this article: the Congressional Digest, the Congressional Quarterly, and the American Rifleman.

ELSEWHERE - NOTES

The tidal wave of crime

“Spotting a White House political offensive is a lot like spotting a tidal wave. All you have to do is
look offshore and watch for a big bump. By that standard, it takes no special genius to see that President
Clinton and his staff have fastened on crime.

“It is an impulse to be saluted, especially since Mr. Clinton does not seem drawn to the simplistic—and sometimes demagogic—approach
embodied in Nixon-Reagan-Bush rhetoric. Their main theme was that the nation could stamp out crime by chasing and punishing criminals
more relentlessly. But several decades of experience have proved beyond reasonable doubt that a purely punitive approach can, at best,
hold the line. To decrease crime requires a mixture of law enforcement, social and economic remedies...

“There is another interim requirement while the long-term remedies of education, economic opportunity and family discipline are...applied. The President and
Congress must be tough and smart enough to reduce the firepower on American streets by regulating the availability of handguns.
The long stalemate over the Brady bill, just ended, shows how far they are from that task.”
-from the November 28 editorial pages of The New York Times.

New combination
“Remember how integral was the locker in your high school days? At a growing number of Southern California campuses those
clanging doors are falling quiet. Faced with rampant vandalism and other headaches centered on the compartments, administrators are choosing to
rip them out and let students haul around all their books and other belongings in their backpacks.

... injury lawyers get word, today or years from now.”
-from the December 3 editorial pages of The Wall Street Journal.

Naturalizing the scapegoats
“As long as the nation’s economy is dragging, some Americans will find scapegoats in immigrants. The naturalization effort could certainly
mitigate that problem, but it alone won’t solve it. This effort is nonetheless a fine example of the kind of
governmental activism that is compatible not solely with America’s laws but also with its tradition of assimilating culturally diverse people
into a unique nationality.”
-from the November 27 editorial pages of The Miami Herald.

The Dean Rusk Program
India, Pakistan bring the nuclear age to the cradle of civilization
By Saad Gul

In the early seventies, when India exploded what was officially described as a “peaceful” nuclear test in the Rajasthan desert,
the Indian subcontinent, site of the world’s oldest civilization, entered a new era. While the Indian government insists to this
day that the blast was peaceful, it has also cited a number of reasons why it would be justified in
acquiring nuclear armaments: it points out that unfriendly China has them, and in a future conflict, lack of nuclear weapons
on the Indian side would, at best, place India at a distinct disadvantage. At worst, the war would be over
before it had begun.

Indian right-wingers also argue that India, which has through virtually all of history remained a major world power, and is
in the process of becoming one again, has as much right to nuclear weapons as any other power. For that
matter, they argue, there is no divine law limiting nuclear weapons to current powers.

The explosion set off panic in neighboring Pakistan, still smarting from a humiliating defeat in the 1971 Indo-Pakistan war that
had cost it half its territory. Upon the advice of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, memories of 1971 fresh in
their minds, then Prime Minister Bhutto embarked Pakistan upon a program that is widely believed to have resulted in the
development of a nuclear weapon in the late 80s. The weapons program has caused all the more concern in the
West because both India and Pakistan test-fired sophisticated missiles at the beginning of the decade. There is real concern that
a future Indo-Pakistan conflict could turn nuclear.

In fact, last June, CNN reported that tensions between the two nations rose to the point that President Bush hastily
dispatched his deputy National Security Advisor, Robert Gates, to the region in 1990. Apparently, intelligence photographs showed nuclear-armed Pakistani jets
in a combat-ready state, ready to take off if the then prevailing tension had turned into a war.

The problems are compounded by high emotions over the matter. Indian leaders see their nation as a great power that
has been unfairly, but temporarily, denied its rightful place on the world stage. They are also well aware that they
would not survive a day in office if the Indian people so much as smelled a sell-out. The extremist right-wing
BJP openly calls for India to detonate a nuclear device; the demand appears to have support among the Indian people.

Pakistanis are particularly sensitive to any attempt to tamper with the nuclear program, long regarded as national ‘family silver.’ They
resent the program being labeled the “Islamic bomb,” pointing out that nobody accuses India of having a Hindu bomb. Another
sore point is that the Pressler Amendment, the legislation of U.S. aid to Pakistan that nearly led to a complete
embargo this year, specifically singles out Pakistan for “special punishment.”

There are no easy answers to a complex question that could cause hundreds of millions of deaths at any time.
Pakistan is firm that it will never sign the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) unless India does so simultaneously; India is
equally firm in its stance that the NPT as it currently stands discriminates against third world countries, and it sees
no reason to comply with its blatantly discriminatory provisions, unless these are modified so that they are no longer biased.

Both countries, however, do point out that their leaders are aware that nuclear weapons are serious business, and will be
no more likely to order their use than Western countries like Britain.

Classifieds
FREE TRIPS AND MONEY!! Individuals and Student Organizations wanted to promote the Hottest Spring Break Destinations, call the nation's leader.
Inter-Campus Programs. 1-800-327-6013.

WANTED: Apartment or portion of house to rent or sub-lease. 892-4992, ask for Janet.
