6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

The Week in Washington

U.S. bears guilt for Balkan tragedy

By Brett Marston

The relative quiet in Washington regarding the war in the Balkans proves that the chances of U.S. intervention in the
region have dwindled into insignificance. According to a recent New York Times report, negotiators are optimistic about the prospects for
a peace settlement within the next week. Most analysts agree, however, that the U.S. and its Western allies are partly
responsible for the fact that this gruesome war started, and must bear some of the burden for the fact that
it has continued for so long.

Many analysts go even further and claim that U.S. policy toward the former Yugoslavian republics has been dangerously misguided at
best, and viciously irresponsible at worst. If the international community had responded to the disintegration of Yugoslavia in 1990, when
a crisis began to become unavoidable, argues Professor Steven L. Burg of Brandeis University in the November issue of Current
History, then a peaceful resolution of conflicting territorial claims might have been possible. “However,” Burg continues, “forceful action by either
Yugoslav leaders or American and European administrators would have required innovative thinking about some of the most basic principles of
the international system and the post-cold war security framework in the Euro-Atlantic community.”

The ethnic violence in ex-Yugoslavia, Burg contends, has shown that there are fundamental contradictions between certain principles, such as the
principles of self-determination and territorial sovereignty, which are contained in the U.N. charter, and that the post-cold war international situation
will require that leaders develop new “diplomatic and political mechanisms” for coping with these contradictions. Combined with the specter of
instability among the republics of the former Soviet Union, these conceptual problems created an extremely complicated foreign relations problem for
the Bush and Clinton administrations.

Nonetheless, most analysts argue, the U.S. has been frustratingly inconsistent in its policies toward the Balkans. Fighting in Bosnia-Herzegovina began
in March of 1992, shortly after Bosnians, who were roughly 44 percent ethnic Muslim, 31 percent Serbian, and 17 percent
Croatian, voted to secede from the rest of Yugoslavia. Most all of the Bosnian Serbs, however, voted against Bosnian independence,
fearing, rightly or not, that they would suffer under predominantly Muslim rule of a Bosnian state.

In an attempt to avoid military conflict in Bosnia, the EC proposed a partitioning of Bosnia into ethnic cantons. Bosnian
leaders, apparently interpreting American pressure to reject the proposal as a pledge for military support should war ensue, rejected the
proposal. As fighting in Bosnia dragged on, however, Bosnian leaders began to realize that they had been deceived in their
hopes for American military support.

This summer, Clinton seemed on the verge of ordering American air strikes on Serbian targets outside of the besieged Bosnian
capital, Sarajevo. When European allies refused to support such a proposal, Clinton backed down, raising suspicions that American emphasis on
“multilateralism” only serves to hide our lack of desire to get militarily involved in any violent conflict. “Multilateralism has become
a cover for U.S. retrenchment and the abandonment of leadership to the vagaries of international events,” contends Sen. Richard G.
Lugar, R-Ind., quoted in the August 21st issue of Congressional Quarterly.

Clearly, public outcry over a relative handful of American deaths in Somalia served to prove to American politicians, and the
already cynical Serbs, that U.S. leaders may like to talk tough in foreign policy, but that their hands will be
tied by a vocal public. This Christmas, at least in part, we have Bosnia on our conscience.

Sources: R. Tucker and D. Hendrickson, “America and Bosnia,” in The National Interest, Fall 1993; Current History, Nov. 1993; The
Congressional Quarterly; Commentary, Dec. 1993; and the New York Times.

The Dean Rusk Program

Morocco's future is not so bright these days

By Andy Barwig

The monarchy of King Hassan II is not so comfortable in the huge palaces in Rabat. The king has the
right to be concerned about the rising tide of Islamic fundamentalism in the Middle East and particularly in North Africa.
Algeria has been in a state of low-intensity civil war against the forces of the Islamic Salvation Front. Morocco’s relations
with Algeria have soured because of the unrest exported from Algeria; however, stability in Algeria is essential for Morocco’s goals
in the coming years.

Terrorism and the Gulf War have been extremely harmful to tourism in the Middle East. Egypt has been plagued by
a militant fundamentalist campaign that strikes at Egypt’s most profitable industry: tourism. Tourism has also been greatly affected in Morocco.
Hotels have operated at a minute fraction of their capacity. Revenue from the tourism industry is needed for some of
Morocco’s dire economic and financial conditions.

The state of the Moroccan economy has been in decline for the last couple of years. Drought conditions for the
past two years have resulted in poor harvests. A decline in investment has caused a rise in unemployment. One of
the most important challenges to Hassan is to draw a budget that will reduce these problems.

One of the solutions that Morocco has been keenly pursuing is economic integration with the European Community. Morocco has made
many gestures towards Spain and the EC markets to attract European interests. Hassan has made significant strides to liberalize the
economy and increase privatization. King Hassan is more interested in building unity with Europe than other Maghreb nations such as
Algeria.Tunisia and Mauritania. Hassan is walking a tightrope between Morocco’s western affiliation and Morocco’s Arab identity. The role of Morocco
in the Middle East has been quite different from some of the radical and anti-Zionist policies of other Arab regimes.
After the PLO-Israeli peace settlement was signed in Washington, Israeli Prime Minister Rabin met with Morocco’s King Hassan the next
day to further gain support for the agreement. Morocco is confronted with a host of domestic problems. The longest and
most disputed involves the territory of the Western Sahara, which Morocco supposedly annexed in 1975. The resistance to Morocco’s occupation
of the Western Sahara is the Polisario, which supports an independent state for the Western Sahara. Hassan has delayed a
national referendum on the Western Sahara as the government refuses to recognize the Polisario, which Algeria supports. The future of
Morocco in North Africa has both ominous and optimistic signs. King Hassan promised an overhaul of the country’s political system.
The recent elections have proved that King Hassan possesses a genuine mystical hold over his kingdom. The forces of radical
Islam have become the most potent opposition force to the North African nation, however. Morocco has become a bulwark against
Islamic fundamentalism and a main ally of the West in an extremely volatile region.

We dedicate this article to our Arts Editor, Rachel Newcomb, who will be spending spring semester abroad in Morocco.

MONDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1993

ELSEWHERE NOTES

Smoke it if you've got it

“Dr. Joycelyn Elders [U.S. Surgeon General] thinks that legalization of narcotics would reduce crime and generally is so impressed with
the idea that she wants ‘studies’ to be made. ‘Studies’ is a pretty word for the road to legalization. The
only further study with any meaning would be to see how it works in the U.S.—buying, selling, and using narcotics,
openly, without penalty. Morally, forgive the sardonic word, legalization is a bottom-line approach to drug abuse: fighting drugs is difficult
and expensive, we are losing, so let’s give in. If they want to use drugs, save money and trouble by
letting them do it. Crime will decrease because drug gangs will go out of business and the stuff will be
so cheap and available everywhere that addicts will not have to steal or mug to get it. The bottom-line attitude
is callous to the point of cruelty. It also won’t work. It is based on ignorance or distortion of drug
realities.”
-from A.M. Rosenthal’s opinion piece in the Op-ed page of the Friday, December 10 New York Times.

The sound of a winner

“Because he seems incapable of rationing himself, Clinton is always going to give his political opponents words and deeds they
can turn on him. But good or bad, depending on the day, the man is looking larger than life, which
is the way presidents should look. The latest flap—a laugher, I think—is that he was mean to the press and
shouted at editors of Rolling Stone. It seems, he thinks, that ‘knee-jerk liberals’ are not helping him as much as
they should, because in the end he is the best hope for their policies and agenda. What else is new?
The most telling parts of the same Rolling Stone interview by Jann Wenner and William Greider came when they asked
Clinton the standard question about how he likes the job, whether he was ‘having fun.’ He could hardly contain himself.
‘You bet. I like it very much. I genuinely enjoy it. . . . It’s exhilarating to have the opportunity
and obligation to try every day.’ That is the sound of a winner. And right now Bill Clinton is (was)
ahead of whoever is in second place.”
-from the Perspective Section of the Sunday, December 5 Atlanta Journal/Constitution.

The somber decade?

“It’s a serious, edgy, transitional time, shot through with ambiguities and contradictions: Less celebration of wealth than before but an
ever-growing gap between the well-off and the poor. More equitable relations between the sexes but not necessarily between the races.
A post-Cold War feeling of relief complicated by a world full of national, ethnic, and religious conflict. More talk about
responsive, open government but no less influence by special interests. Ever since the waning days of 1989, commentators have been
trying futilely to find an all-encompassing characterization for the 1990s. Maybe it’s the Practical Decade, they suggest. The Decade of
Re-evaluation? The Decency Decade? The Empowerment Decade? The Snoring ’90s? The Years of Confusion? Pretty somber stuff.”
-from a commentary in Sunday’s Charlotte Observer.

Civilization gone rotten

“America is not in danger of becoming a Third World country; we are too rich, too proud, and too strong
to allow that to happen. Many people live well, decently, even honorably. There are places where virtue is taught and
learned. But there is a lot less of this than there ought to be. The U.S. ranks near the top
in the industrialized world in its rates of abortion, divorce, and unwed births. We lead the industrialized world in murder,
rape, and violent crime. And in elementary and secondary education, we are at or near the bottom in achievement scores.
But there are other signs of decay, ones that do not so easily lend themselves to quantitative analyses. There is
coarseness, a callousness, a cynicism, a banality, and vulgarity to our time. There are too many signs of a civilization
gone rotten. And the worst of it has to do with our children: We live in a culture that at
times seems almost dedicated to the corruption of the young, to ensuring the loss of their innocence before their time.”
-from the Friday, December 10 issue of The Wall Street Journal.
