THE DAVIDSONIAN —

NEWS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1993

McConnell neighborhood offers option for faculty

College develops 98 acres for affordable housing on Concord Road

By Katherine Hash

Davidson College continues work on a 98-acre housing development at the edge of town. The McConnell neighborhood is designed to
keep college employees in Davidson by offering them an attractive and affordable housing option.

The pace of development around Davidson has increased as Charlotte commuters recognize Davidson’s desirability. Housing prices have increased as supply
has decreased, lessening the opportunities for faculty housing close to Davidson’s campus.

The accessibility of faculty and their involvement in the Davidson community is an essential aspect of Davidson College. The new
housing development is an effort to safeguard this close relationship between students, faculty, and community. According to Robert Sutton, Vice
President for Business and Finance, 90% of current Davidson faculty live in the town, but new faculty members are choosing
to live in Cornelius and Mooresville. Sutton hopes that the development of the McConnell neighborhood will provide not a “one-time
fix” but a long-term solution to this problem.

The McConnell neighborhood consists of 98 acres of land situated out Concord Road on the edge of town to be
developed over a ten-year period through a series of five phases. Half of the 190 homes to be built will
be available to the general public while the other half will be reserved for college employees.

Of the 95 houses designated for college personnel, half will be sold and half leased. The objective of the lease
lots, Sutton says, is to make housing more affordable for professors who will be able to own a house without
buying a lot. The lease lots, which must be sold back to the college when the house owner is no
longer employed by Davidson, will also enable the college to retain long-term control over 1/4 of the lots in the
neighborhood thus assuring the college of a steady stream of faculty housing into the future.

The idea for such a development originated in the 50s when the school purchased the land from the McConnell estate.
The school recently decided that it was time to develop the land and hired Davidson graduate John Crosland’s Land Company
to develop an innovative approach. The plan being used was selected, after considering faculty/staff opinions, from four submitted by residential
land planners.

The completed neighborhood will include five parks, a neighborhood green, and a pond. The streets are being worked into existing
streets to facilitate the neighborhood’s incorporation into the town, and they will be lined by sidewalks on both sides. Many
front walkways, garages, and carports facing away from the street have also been planned.

Sutton hoped to avoid building a “typical suburban development” by precluding an entrance monument or gate, offering a variety of
house plans in a wide range of prices and sizes, and prohibiting identical houses in close proximity.

Section 1 of Phase 1 has been completed and 20 homes have already been sold. Donna Molinek, Assistant Math Professor,
and her husband Frank Molinek, Assistant Head of Cataloging, have bought one of the six houses already sold to Davidson
faculty. Dr. Molinek, who had been renting one of 50 houses in Davidson owned by the college, cites the desire
to own their own home as the primary reason for moving. She also believes the McConnell neighborhood will be “a
great place to raise kids.” Molinek does not believe that many houses in the neighborhood would be economically feasible for
one-income families.

RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS

Dean Rusk speaker talks off record

The Dean Rusk program in international studies sponsored a talk with Scott Thompson entitled, “US Policy in the Balkans” on
Tuesday, September 7 at the College Union.

Thompson, a foreign service officer of the Bulgaria desk in the United States Department of State, required clearance from the
Bureau of Public Affairs for his speech. Permission to talk at Davidson was given with the stipulation that “it was
off the record.”

No specific reasons were given by Thompson or the Dean Rusk program. Reporters from the Charlotte Observer and the Davidsonian
were asked not to report anything that was discussed in the meeting.

Davidson is able to secure top officials, like Thompson, with the help and influence of Ambassador Jack Perry, Director of
the Dean Rusk program.

Correction:

Last week, The Davidsonian incorrectly spelled a new history professor's name. The correct spelling is John Wertheimer.

MY DEGREE GOT ME THE INTERVIEW. ARMY ROTC GOT ME THE JOB.

Things got pretty competitive for this job. I'm sure my college degree and good grades kept me in the running.
But in the end, it was the leadership and management experience I got through Army ROTC that won them over.

You can begin to develop impressive leadership skills with an Army ROTC elective.

Save $3.00 on two Adult Dinner Entrees

Not redeemable at lunch

Dine-In or Take-Out Only

* Only one coupon per couple per visit redeemable for $1.50. This coupon is not redeemable with any other coupon.
Must bring in this coupon for offer to be valid. Offer expires: 11-24-93

HOURS: Tuesday-Saturday 5pm-9pm Hwy 21 South, Cornelius 892-3362

MIL 101 - The U.S. Army Today "Introduction to Leadership" MIL 101-A, Tuesday 13:00 - 14:15 MIL 101-B, Wednesday 09:30
- 10:20 MIL 101-C, Thursday 08:30 - 09:45 Register now without obligation.

College Republicans Organizational Meeting Wednesday, Sept. 15 7:00 p.m. in Phi Hall

Call Chad Lloyd -6240 or Bill Gullan -6077
