THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1993

HARRISON ROBERTS - Editor in Chief
LEIGH RAWDON - Managing Editor
MANDY CURTIS - News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL - Sports Editor
WILL COBB - Ass't Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

WELLS BLACK - Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS - Business Manager
ERIK SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

Happy Christmas

The Davidsonian editorial last week repeated the phrase, “Start studying” 50 times. While this year’s approach was somewhat unique, it
was the recognition of an annual tradition that prompted us to act like the proverbial mother. Each year, the lucky
people in charge of the paper’s operation fill up space by reminding the student body that, like it or not,
finals are coming and it is time to start studying.

But the editorial also comes with the beginning of the Christmas season. And though it is a small, mostly unnoticed
tradition, it is part of a greater movement of spirit on the part of the entire campus. Consider the goings
on Sunday afternoon in the Grey Student Union. On the second floor, over one hundred big brothers, big sisters, little
brothers, and little sisters joined together for their annual Christmas celebration. Running all over the building were smiling little children,
holding cookies in their hands, and looking with admiration at the big people all around them. And their “big people”
hosts wore green elf suits.

In the TV room, students from all walks of campus life gathered to sell trees and chickens and water buffalo
to people willing to give up a few dollars to help those less fortunate in third world areas, abroad and
in the United States. In what is undoubtedly one of the more innovative ways to give during the holiday season,
the Alternative Gift Market allows patrons to buy gifts in the form of charitable contributions in the name of a
friend or family member. We can think of few gifts better than a chicken donated to a family in Guatemala,
that by year’s end will have given birth to as many as 240 chicks.

And then there is “The Grinch.” The 900 Room is so packed that students have pondered the idea of hanging
by ropes and harnesses to watch Dr. Seuss’ Christmas classic. What follows, however, may be Davidson’s finest non-academic tradition. The
annual Christmas carol sing-a-long in front of Chambers is one of the surest signs that Davidson can come together without
the arguments and divisions that so often seem to plague the student body. And it is hard to pass up
the cookies and hot cider sponsored by the Union.

But the spirit still doesn’t die. On Sunday night, the community filled the church to listen to the Davidson choir
and brass ensemble pay tribute to the music of the holiday. The lessons read by Davidson’s mothers and fathers signify
what the season means: peace and hope.

So, as the semester comes to an end, The Davidsonian wants to extend to everyone in the Davidson community a
wonderful holiday season and a peace-filled, happy new year.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian
requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all
letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student
Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial
Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the
Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTERS

A careful interpretation of Paul

To the editors,

In his article “Christians shouldn’t compromise beliefs” in the Nov. 15th issue of the Davidsonian, Chris Grubb does the Apostle
Paul a disservice. Grubb gives a paraphrase of Romans 1:27 as follows: “The Bible says these [homosexual] acts are detestable
and are abominations to God.” Paul writes no such thing in this verse. Neither word, “detestable” nor “abomination,” is present
in the verse Grubb cites. We as a class have prepared a translation of the passage in question in order
to clear up any misunderstanding. In the preceding lines,Paul talks about the ways in which God handed people over to
their dishonorable [atimia, literally “not honorable”] passions. Verse 1:26 declares, “for their fe—

See Classics on page 9

Injustice in the Commons

To the editors,

I am writing to inform everyone that Pam Kennedy, the friendly cashier at the Commons, has been removed from her
position. She now works out of sight, in the back. The powers that be decided she was too friendly with
the students and therefore unprofessional. I think this is all terribly wrong. Pam, and yes I know her by first
name, has always worked hard. She works hard at caring. She learns names, all of them, I think. She takes
time to listen. She takes an interest, a real interest, in the lives of Davidson students. She cares, and she
makes my day significantly brighter. She thinks of us as her kids. I like that. I like that about Davidson,
and if I wanted someone to treat me coldly, I could have gone to a big school. People like Pam
are the things that make places like Davidson special. Out of all my years here, I can sincerely say that
Pam has been the best cashier. I don’t like what’s happened. I’m interested in collecting letters to submit to personnel
to get her back out front. Please write them. Please spread the word. Give them to me, or mail them
to P.O. Box 4055. Let’s see if we can get this fixed.

Sincerely,
Stephen Faller

More injustice in the Commons

To the editors,

Ever sit in your room about 1:30 in the morning, and just get the munchies? You go and look in
your cavernous fridge, and you have nothing, save for a jar of Cheez Wiz and Goober Jelly, and, of course,
no bread. What to do? Well, how about that never-dying food source in Davidson, the Commons? I won’t complain that
it’s not open, after all, this is not UNC or FSU. But how about bringing an apple or an ice
cream bar up to your dorm for a late-night snack? Sounds logical, right? Vail is all you can eat, a
wonderful virtue, so why can’t I bring an apple out of the damn place? Or, for that matter, refill a
soda? I realize this may seem trivial to some of you, but I think at a cost of over $20,000
a year, we should be entitled to keep an apple or refill a soda. Do you realize what a killing
Vail makes, especially on freshmen? The 19-meal plan is larceny. As for myself, I usually only make six or seven
of those meals. Now, I’m sure some people may make more meals, and my absence at Vail may even be
due to my own laziness. Even so, making it to twelve or thirteen meals is quite a task. If you
are involved in a sport, a job, or both as I am, try making it to more than ten meals.
Good luck. This is not a diatribe on the injustice of having to buy the nineteen-meal plan (although that could
be a future complaint), but a justification of bringing food and drink outside the Commons. If I must pay for
this plan, why can’t I get my money’s worth?

See Food on page 9

Davidsonian's Oxfam coverage disastrous

To the editors,

The Davidsonian’s choice of particular articles in the Nov. 15th and Nov. 22nd issues disappointed and angered me. Early in
November, I turned in an article explaining the details of the Oxfam Fast and asked that it be printed in
the Nov. 15th issue. Instead, all I found was a sentence announcing the Fast Breaking Meal which advertised the wrong
time. Rather than print an informative article, we got Chris Frampton’s “I have nothing to say, but I’ve got to
fill up space” article. You then had the nerve to print an article on Nov. 22nd about Oxfam’s disastrous turnout
this year without even consulting me. I am not saying that my one article could have drastically improved the turnout,
but it couldn’t have hurt. Several things contributed to the problem, but that’s a different issue. My main complaint is
your half-ass style of reporting (in this case). You did nothing to help promote the event, but you were the
first to talk about how it failed (and even provided a picture of me glaring at your camera). You did
an excellent job promoting the Bone Marrow Drive. Oxfam deserved the same treatment.

Sincerely,
Lisa Sitek
Class of ‘94
