_BACKPAGE INTERVIEW MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1993 PATTERSON COURT ADVISOR KURT HOLMES By Chris Frampton

Davidsonian: There is a lot going on right now concerning proposed changes in the alcohol policy. We would imagine some of that has to be kept secret at the moment, but could you give us insight into the proceedings and where they stand now?

Holmes: Well, there is very little that needs to be kept quiet because, at least my hope, and I think the whole college’s, is that this whole process will be an evaluation from all fronts. Student Government Association has made their recommendations, Patterson Court is putting together their own recommendations, and I have, hopefully, some insights that cross both lines. I have been in on the discussions for Patterson Court. They’re looking to some other changes: to do some more of their own self-regulating at their parties, to do some risk monitoring as opposed to the alcohol monitors we have, with several people from the chapters to help sponsor it, and cut down on the number of people who are in essence intruding into their domain. There will be less of the registered alcohol monitors—maybe one, maybe two—at each party, and to reduce the role that the police officers have been taking. Also, a few other things about how the bars are operated within the houses. I haven't heard many complaints about the RLO component, but it seems to be that, at least on residential issues, people can live with it because of the private nature of things within the room.

Davidsonian: Has there been an increase of people, as the SGA phrased, “slamming” beers before heading down to the court?

Holmes: I don’t know about the “slamming” part, but I do know that there is an awful lot of drinking going on within the halls. I think the policy's hope was that drinking of that sort would be responsible, that people, if they made the choice to drink, would do it in a mature way. I’m sure, given some of the incidences we’ve had, that there are a number of people who are taking the option and getting extremely drunk now and keeping their “buzz” all night. I hope it’s not as widespread as people think, but it very well could be.

Davidsonian: Can you give us some specifics of the Patterson Court Council’s proposal?

Holmes: ... The risk monitors, and taking back some of their own responsibility and ownership of parties is a big part of it.

Davidsonian: What do you think of that idea?

Holmes: Personally and in the position I have of Patterson Court advisor, I think it’s a great idea. They’re also working on doing some of their own judicial cases, hearing the violations against the houses, sanctioning it themselves, and I think that’s another positive step, where students take the responsibility for their own conduct. It’s a lot more effective when a peer says we think what you did was wrong and you need to do this differently next time than to have the college say it.

Davidsonian: Isn't that somewhat of a strain on the insurance policies of both the school and the houses?

Holmes: No, the school will still maintain their policies, and the Dean of Students’ office, in turn the judicial board and honor council, still have the right to hear anything. They’re really saying we'll give you first crack at dealing with it. If they are doing appropriate things and they are giving out appropriate sanctions or responding in a reasonable way then they won’t lose their right to do that.

Davidsonian: So, in essence, the idea is to give the court a second chance to monitor itself?

Holmes: Well, I think what happened was that the students had the opportunity, under the previous policy, to monitor themselves. The school said that this whole policy, the students’ judicial boards, the PCC, and the houses themselves, wasn’t working. So they defined a new policy for this year where the rule of judicator is taken back by the school and now under this new policy, they may be given a chance to monitor themselves. So, yes, there is a sense that it is a totally new ballgame and the school wants to see how the court operates under the new rules. Back to the PCC recommendations. They have listed four primary areas. Basically, define the role of the alcohol monitor, they’d like to use them more as risk monitors than alcohol monitors, by reducing the number of alcohol monitors they believe responsible parties will be more attainable, parties that won’t get out of control. They don’t want the monitors chasing down underage drinkers. And I think the school would agree with that. We don’t want them out there hunting for people, but to be making sure things don’t get out of control. Clearly, because of state law, and our need to enforce that, part of their role must be monitoring underage drinking. The PCC wants to reinstate the two monitor rule for all houses, they will have to have two sober monitors per each house. The school will provide one monitor who will back those people up in their job. I guess the real reason to keep anyone, from that perspective, is that it limits both parties’ liability. The school has a presence there and that student monitor would cite the house if the house wasn’t holding up its end, so that any risk management problems, from the house’s perspective, can be backed up by saying “we must be following the rules or the school would be coming down on us.” So it’s kind of a balance, or at least that is the hope. And, the PCC’s other big concern is their belief that some of the outside police officers have not worked with college students and are used to bars as opposed to what a court party is like. They don’t have the experience of dealing with the students. When an officer from Huntersville or wherever comes into that situation they will see a drunk person stumbling out the front door as a threat whereas our own officers see a student. They are, therefore, looking to redefine the police role, to get away from some of the antagonism.

Davidsonian: Do you think, looking at the incident at KA, that the animosity between students and police officers is a direct result of the new policy?

Holmes: I think police end up catching the brunt of students’ frustration with the whole policy. There was some real ambiguity at the beginning of the year, clearly there is still some ambiguity now. That leads to some frustration because you can’t work in or around or through a policy if you don’t know what it is. I have always maintained that college students will find a way to work with any policy. If you think they’re creative in class, they are even more so in the other areas of their lives, and I think they just wanted a full set of rules and to work with it. We didn’t have that set when the school year started. We’re better at it now, but that frustration level gets thrown in the faces of the police because they are the ones at the parties. They’re on the front lines. They’re visible there, and let’s face it, they’re in badge, gun, handcuffs. They’re a visible sign of authority.

Davidsonian: What aboutthe other aspects of your job? Patterson Court Advisor doesn’t mean Alcohol on Patterson Court Advisor.

Holmes: Well, it depends on the time of the year, because alcohol takes up about ninety percent of my time.

Davidsonian: Can you give us an update on SAE?

Holmes: They have set up, as far as I know, several committees to work on their reinstatement on the court. One of the large areas that they have asked for my help on is the redefinition of their pledge program, because that was one of the large reasons they were removed. They’re hoping to correct those problems. They’ve set up a committee of two students from each current class to work with me to redefine how they do their pledge program. PCC has also set up a committee to define what their expectations are of SAE when they return, and the college is also reviewing it through the CCRL.

Davidsonian: So it is pretty certain they will return?

Holmes: From the beginning, it was assumed they would return if something didn’t go wrong. There was an outline of what they needed to do. I would probably guess that they are a little behind schedule because they are only now beginning to aggressively figure out what they’re doing. They’ve also taken on a new set of officers recently, and I think that new set of officers is going to pursue their reinstatement. It’s by no means certain, but if they do everything they are required to, they will return.

Davidsonian: Along the lines of problems with pledging, what about the situation with Sigma Phi Epsilon?

Holmes: At this point, there is a lot I can’t talk about. There has been a review committee, the number one at KA, Rod Carter, and Julie Petty, the president of the BCC, John Eaves from the Dean of Students office, and Alex Pinkston, a theatre professor. I kind of chaired the group, not actually voting on their decisions, but guided them in getting people in there and making some recommendations of what some possible alternatives were. They have made a recommendation as of [last Thursday] to Dean Terry and Dr. Kuykendall. It may be conceived by some as punitive, but I would define the whole thing as educational. There are some areas that include restrictions on the chapter, but there are areas that mean to improve what the chapter does. I also don’t think that they are an anomaly. The whole court has some problems. We handed out some guidelines, some of which were referred to last week in the Davidsonian, on pledging. Those are going to be changed for next year; a few things added, some things redefined with how they are described, because road trips weren't specifically mentioned. We need to do that. We need to say specifically, “These are not allowed, these are a bad thing.” There is some potential for some real hardship there. Some other things that have come to light, almost to people making a case for why Sig Ep’s actions weren’t that bad. People have talked about things that their chapters and other chapters do and we’re finding out that there is a lot of personal servitude out there. Nothing major, but having someone clean your room or do your laundry. It’s nothing that is long-term damaging, but it’s something that shouldn’t be in a pledge program. So the outcome of this, I think, is going to be perceived by some as punitive, but I hope it’s educational. Probably since I have an opportunity to make a plug for the good sides of what has happened here, I should mention it. The Sig Ep national has acted very responsibly. They stepped right in, were willing to help, the local chapter was willing to help, clearly that is a big difference from what happened with SAE last year. If their national had been a lot more involved, that would have been a different situation. So it’s kind of a model for how you should respond when bad things happen.

Davidsonian: Can you give us an ideal pledging program?

Holmes: I think a pledging program, and all the chapters seem to have this at heart, is a time for new members to learn about the organization. In the case of our fraternities, there is an awful lot of national history, regional history, that goes beyond just the local chapter. It should be a time to learn the people, to learn the history, and to learn what goes on in the chapter. Too often what it becomes is a time for people to do a lot of stupid things. There is a place for that fun, a place for that just screwing around. I mean you’re at a college, not forced into a Ph.D. program. You’re at an undergraduate school, you should have some fun, or you’ve missed out on a lot. But when it becomes organized separation between groups, you have a problem. The real guideline that I give to students if they ask, is if you have to ask, don’t do it. But beyond that, anything that separates the two groups and makes one group subject to humiliation or undue work, then you’ve crossed the line. This is the situation with road trips. Even though it’s a fun game, there is a potential for harm and it separates the two groups against each other. I’m much happier when an organization runs some things like IMAC events or even sets up tug of war, with brothers working with pledges, and so forth.

Davidsonian: What about the expected rise in the popularity of egg fights?

Holmes: We’ve sent out a letter reminding chapters that they will be penalized severely for vandalism. Egg fights are sort of a strange exception. If it's people who have chosen to be involved, two groups who have agreed to entangle with each other, as vile as some students think the outcome might be, then I think it is OK. As long as they clean up. If they were shooting water balloons in an organized competition, no one would question it. The problem really is, when does it cross the line and become vandalism: when people’s cars are hit, when the houses’ windows are broken? If we could find a way that those things didn’t happen, almost organizing an egg fight on a Saturday. But then you run into the danger of losing the spontaneity. I really don’t have a strong stand against the egg fights, and I know the college hasn’t taken one either. They have said, “you need to clean it up,” and the house will probably see some bills if they haven’t cleaned it up.

Davidsonian: Pledging is on hold right now?

Holmes: At this point, because of some vandalism we had Thursday evening that was pretty major. The first inclination was to say that the two houses that were flooded did it to each other. The houses are claiming that neither house was responsible and that it was probably a third party. Dean Terry has said it's at least three houses involved; we don't need this to continue. We’ve instructed the houses without suspending social events, to say hold your pledge programs because a lot of this is from one pledge class to another or house to another, and until the parties responsible for flooding those two houses step forward and say, yeah, we did it. The physical plant is understandably angry. I think we will hear about this by Monday or Tuesday.