4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 12, 1993

Prevailing Attorney in Roe v. Wade Case Discusses Abortion's Past, Present & Future

By Sally Stone

On Thursday evening, April 8, a receptive crowd filled the 900 Room to meet the lawyer for the most famous
court case of the modern generation, Roe versus Wade. Sarah Weddington, lawyer, teacher, aide for former President Carter, and former
Texas legislator, entertained and educated the audience on a host of topics, but primarily retold the story of her involvement
in the landmark case from 1969 to today.

For anyone not present to hear Weddington’s incredible journey with Roe v. Wade, the circumstances would appear unbelievable. Beginning with
her decision to attend law school in her home state of Texas, Weddington has been making firsts. Her most dramatic
entry pertains to Roe v. Wade; this was her first contested case. Prior to it, Weddington had worked for a
former law professor and filed only uncontested simple cases, like adoption.

Her unusual participation derived from her willingness to try the case for free, “because people asked [her] to,” and because
she was a woman. Jane Roe’s desire for an abortion, legal in Texas only when the life of the woman
was in danger, came to Weddington’s attention in 1969 when a concerned group of female science graduate students began advising
women on illegal abortions, under Weddington's counsel.

An earlier case, Griswold versus Connecticut, had established birth control as a right of privacy and stated in the decision
a woman’s private right whether to “bear or beget a child.” Weddington used this precedent to file a complaint that
Texas’s hundred-year-old anti-abortion statute violated Norma McCorvey’s (a.k.a. Jane Roe) right to privacy.

When asked what it was like to try a case before the Supreme Court, Weddington immediately reacted, “Scary.” She never
believed that her case would appeal all the way to the Supreme Court because several other abortion cases were also
pending. Only two years out of law school, Weddington “panicked,” then began preparing for her 1972 court date.

Describing the Supreme Court experience, Weddington remembered its intimidating architecture and courtroom. She was only allowed thirty minutes for oral
argument against the Dallas District Attorney, Mr. Henry Wade. Multiple briefings had been written and submitted to the court prior
to their appearance. The three legal issues involved in Roe v. Wade were: Is there a right of privacy for
pregnant women; is pregnancy fundamental; and can the state regulate a woman’s bodily decisions? When the Supreme Court decided 7-2
in favor of Roe several months later, they found in favor of all three of Weddington’s arguments.

The time span between the case’s court date and the Court’s decision was long enough for Weddington to run and
win a seat in the Texas House of Representatives. None other than current governor Ann Richards was her administrative assistant.
Soon after her election, she received a collect telegram informing her of their favored decision.

Remarking on this decision’s controversy twenty-one years later, Weddington mentioned several new issues under the abortion topic, such as men’s
involvement in decision-making and the point of fetal viability. Justice White’s retirement and Justice Blackmun’s predicted retirement during the Clinton,
pro-choice, administration will evenly distribute the Supreme Court’s Roe opinion; three against, three willing to weaken a woman’s right, and
three still in favor of Roe.

Having produced the successful argument, Weddington closed her captivating lecture by predicting fewer abortion cases in the future. Although she
does not foresee an overturning case, Weddington fears that the increased violence by pro-life movements threatens the availability of abortions.

Write for News. Davidsonian News Staff Meeting Monday, Wilson Room, 9:00 p.m.Way Dangerous, Officials Say

LINCOLN, NEB. (CPS) - There’s a proper way to wear a backpack - but most students opt for a more
fashionable one-shoulder look. However, following fashion can be dangerous, health officials say. Wearing shoulder packs or shoulder bags improperly can
lead to problems in the back, lower back, and trapezius muscle, said Mark Feight, an athletic trainer at Injury Prevention
and Care in the University of Nebraska Campus Recreation Center. Hip problems, ranging from minor irritation to pain when standing,
can also result from disproportional backpack weight, Feight said. “The body is designed for balance,” he said, “so you throw
your hip out to balance the bag.”

Students expressed the problems that they have had as a result of improper wear of packs. “I feel fatigue or
cramps in my shoulder,” said Chris Worthley, a senior psychology major. Herb Hess, a senior education major, said when his
shoulder muscles became tired, he switched shoulders. This is the treatment recommended by Feight. “Students should carry less or alternate
shoulders, but they get in a habit of using only one,” Feight said.

Faculty Strikes at U. of Cincinnati

CINCINNATI, OH. (CPS) - Students returning to the University of Cincinnati after spring break were greeted with picket signs after
the university’s faculty went on strike. A university spokesman said about 90 percent of the institution’s 1,916 professors are represented
by the American Association of University Professors. The union and the administration couldn’t come to an agreement over a proposed
contract, and the faculty went on strike. The main issues causing the faculty action were pay and other unresolved issues,
including university governance and working conditions.

Spokesman Jim Dexter said graduate assistants and part-time instructors were filling the void, and that up to two-thirds of the
scheduled classes were held two days after the strike began March 29. Additionally, several full-time faculty members were in the
classrooms, Dexter said. Approximately 35,000 students attend the public university.

At Wooster, Tootsie Rolls Win Hands Down

WOOSTER, OH (CPS) - The preferred candy at The College of Wooster for seniors, it seems, is the Tootsie Roll.
When the seniors turn in required independent projects, they are rewarded with a small gift - miniature Tootsie Rolls as
a token of their educational achievements. Some students eat their candy on the spot, although others keep the candy as
part of their college memorabilia.

According to college officials, the tradition began 20 years ago when a Wooster official wanted to reward seniors for completing
their required senior project with a small gift. Being mindful of the college’s budget, the official got a good deal
on miniature Tootsie Rolls by the carton and the practice has carried on.

LAKE NORMAN’S NEWEST FULL SERVICE RESTAURANT & BAR

KP's is located in Shops On the Green, and open every day for lunch, dinner & late night. KP’s has
all your favorite sandwiches, fresh pasta, pizza from our bistro, fresh bread, and specialty coffee brewed at your table. The
Davidsonian. YOUR source for news around town. You will feel comfortable at KP’s in boating shoes or a business suit.

Classifieds

OPEN EVERY DAY LUNCH, DINNER, LATE NIGHT

SAVE $150 ON GROCERIES

$200-$500 Send $9.95 for Order Book

186 VW... $50

187 MERCEDES... $100

KP'S IS READY WHEN YOU ARE

National Brand Coupons. Choose from over 1200 items. Call 1-800-576-5146 or send check, today, to A.L.T. Inc., P.O. Box 801-379-2929
Midlothian, Va., 2311

SPACIOUS BAR WITH TWO TV'S

SHOPS ON THE GREEN (Adjacent to Comfort Inn)
