10 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS

Sting Lets His Hair Down on Ten Summoner's Tales
By Tom Bavis

I could tell almost immediately that Sting’s new album, Ten Summoner’s Tales, was not going to be a continuation of
his last album, the tense and somber Soul Cages. In Soul Cages, he spent the better part of an hour
trying to come to grips with his father’s death, and the result was music that fit the woeful mood of
the lyrics. Judging from the title (which appears to be a play on Sting’s real name, Gordon Sumner) and the
sly grins from the pictures within, I could tell that he had not made Soul Cages II. Thankfully this album,
when taken as a whole, does not repeat the formulae of any of his previous work.

Yet for all the experimentation on Ten Summoner's Tales, Sting does not hesitate to dip shamelessly into his past, both
as the Police chief and a soloist. The opening song, like 1985’s “If You Love Somebody Set Them Free,” screams
to be played on the radio, as Casey Kasem is already finding out. Plucking his bass to the simple beat,
Sting complains of his withering faith in the pillars of society—the church, the politicians, and the military, among others. He
concludes in the chorus that “If I ever lose my faith in you / There’d be nothing left for me
to lose.” Whether he’s talking to God, a significant other, or someone else, I haven’t quite decided. His point is
intriguing either way.

Though love in its many forms is his favorite subject on the album, Sting tries to have each song tackle
something completely new. In “Love is Stronger Than Justice,” a young Mexican man details his shameless decision to kill his
six brothers for the hand of a woman to which all the brothers were equally entitled. In “She’s Too Good
For Me,” a man complains about all the traits he possesses that the woman of his ambition dislikes, before he
realizes, “I could distort myself to be the perfect man / She might prefer me as I am.” And in
perhaps the most personal song of them all, “Epilogue,” Sting declares, “You don’t need to read no books on my
history / I’m a simple man, it’s no mystery.” Compared to Soul Cages, these lyrics are quite diverse.

At the same time, there are a few allusions to familiar Sting topics. The most blatant references are in “Seven
Days,” a Caribbean ditty that alludes to at least four Police songs, including “Can’t Stand Losing You” and “Every Little
Thing She Does is Magic.” This album is also a musical departure from the often dry Soul Cages. Sting has
fun this time. As if to challenge his own prowess as a breeder of styles, Sting combines a funky

THE CALENDAR
MONDAY, APRIL 19, 1993

ALL WEEK
MUSIC
Artefino Gallery, Charlotte. “Historic Images of The Beatles, 1962-67.” Photographs by Dezo Hoffman. Call 372-3903.
Primitive Treasures, Charlotte. Current exhibit features “Voodoo Man” by Annie Tolliver, “Black Jesus” by Mose Tolliver plus works by Howard
Finster and R.A. Miller. Call 542-2762 for more info.

Mon, Apr. 19
Chickenwire Gang. Presented by IPC. In the 900 Room. 9:30 p.m. Come see this good-time band.

Tue, Apr. 20
Student Piano Recital. Piano students of Cynthia Lawing perform an all Chopin recital. Hodson Hall. 8:15 p.m.

Wed, Apr. 21
Koko Taylor. Double Door, Charlotte.
New Potato Caboose. 1313 club.

Thur, Apr. 22
Garnett Smith, baritone. Voice recital. Hodson Hall. 8:15 p.m.

Fri, Apr. 23
Julie Ferguson. Student piano recital. Hodson Hall. 8:15 p.m.

Sun, Apr. 25
Recital with Alan Black, cellist, Valarie Mullison, oboist, and Heather Coltman, pianist. Davidson. Hodson Hall. Will include works by Beethoven
and Kent Holliday. 8:15 p.m.

Apr. 20-24
Student-directed one acts. Workshop theater. 7:30 p.m.

Apr. 21 & 22
Blues Brothers. Movie. 900 Room. 9:30 p.m. on Wed. and 9:00 p.m. on Friday.

Apr. 22
Camelot. Lerner & Lowe’s musical retelling of the story of King Arthur. Charlotte, Belk Theater at the Performing Arts Center.
Call 372-1000.
Les Ballets Trockadero De Monte Carlo. This all-male dance company performs cross-dressing parodies of classical works as well as modern
dance. Spirit Square. Call 372-SHOW for more info.

Apr. 28
Birds of Prey. Presented by the Carolina Raptor Center. Big Screen Room. 7:30 p.m.

SPEAKERS
Mon, Apr. 19
George Bealer, Philosophy speaker. “Mental Properties.” Rare Book Room. 4:00 p.m.

Tue, Apr. 20
Reverend Biddle ’83. “The Bible As It Pertains to Homosexuality.” Morrison Room. 7:30 p.m.

Wed, Apr. 21
David Matthews, M.D. Talks on his experiences as a physician treating war wounds in Iran. 900 Room. 7:30 p.m.

Thur, Apr. 22
Coffeehouse. 900 Room. 8:30-11 a.m.
21 Year-Old Night. 900 Room. 10:30 p.m.

MISCELLANEOUS
Mon, Apr. 19
CROP lunch. 900 Room. 11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m.

Tue, Apr. 20
Cards Night. Union Outpost. 10:00 p.m.

Wed, Apr. 21
Chapel Service. Lingle Chapel. 11:30 a.m.
DCTV Study Break. 900 Room. 10:00 p.m.jazz rhythm in the verses with a country chorus—and succeeds! In “Fields of Gold,”
he brings in Celtic instruments and adds a nostalgic touch to an otherwise mundane song. But like the lyrics, there
is a lot of familiar ground trodden on this album. “Shape of My Heart” sounds frighteningly like “Fragile,” a standout
on 1987’s ...Nothing Like the Sun. “She’s Too Good For Me” rocks so hard and fast, it could easily fit
on one of the Police’s first albums. Thus Sting’s fourth solo album is neither his best work nor his most
consistent. But it is worth buying—whether or not you are a Sting fan already. If you aren’t one, Ten Summoner’s
Tales is a perfect introduction—eleven tracks that dip into many of the sources of Sting’s previous successes: pop, jazz, funk,
rock, poetry, and philosophy. If you are an avid Sting fan already, you probably won’t be disappointed; Ten Summoner’s Tales
is Sting being himself and enjoying it.

Bumstead Ends Distinguished Career

Matt continued from page 8

away from the Supremes, and what do you have? A country revolution without Garth Brooks. If Garth does relinquish the
title (via either retiring, inactivity, or a further move from the mainstream), who will be his successor? Answer: (drum roll)
NOBODY. It'll be like the heavyweight division of pro boxing before Mike Tyson came along... a big vacuum of contenders,
but no one will be strong enough to hold bragging rights. Face it, Garth set a new standard for dominance
in country music. Randy Travis, Hank Jr., and George Strait never saw anything like it.

-Does Matt give the best bus tours of Nashville, TN? You bet yer hoss he does.

-What is the best all-around country song ever? Uh... okay. Well, I’ll name only a few from the past 15
or so years. “Friends in Low Places” (Brooks), “He Stopped Loving Her Today” (George Jones), “Are the Good Times Really
Over” (Merle Haggard), “Good Hearted Woman” (Waylon/Willie), “Angel of the Morning” (Juice Newton), “You Never Even Called Me By My
Name” (David Allen Coe), “The Devil Went Down to Georgia,” “The Dance.” The first two are my favorites.

-What can you do to make Charlotte radio stations better? Easy. Complain. This whole obsession (96.9 WTDR especially) with “NEW”
country represents a really bothersome trend. If these stations only play the big names, and play them five times a
day, they will never help country music or the many talented young artists trying to get a break. Example: When
I go to Nashville, I sometimes hear five or six songs in half an hour that I’ve never heard before,
because these star-gazing stations here won’t give the old songs and new artists (there are more than the five that
we hear here) a shot. In a town like Charlotte, radio programmers don’t take risks. The result is tremendous overkill
and a totally one-sided look at what Nashville has to offer. Listeners here and at stations like these all over
the country are being cheated. And the announcers are so fake it makes me want to listen to Depeche Mode
or something awful just to get back at them.

Well, I’m sure this column was a letdown for most of you. No sparkling wit or stunning insights like usual,
eh? (yeah, right) As I said, I didn’t want to restate myself, but just wanted to let you know that,
yes, country will go on without Whistlin’ Dixie. My thanks and congratulations go out again to Walter Price, who got
this big ball of hay rolling two years ago; and to Rachel Newcomb and Harrison Roberts I also offer my
appreciation for giving me this space and for doing such fine jobs. Mostly, I thank all of you who have
read this far. It was the support, the comments, the arguments, and the “I'll look forward to next week’s” you
gave me that kept me writing. In the words of Augustus McCrae (Lonesome Dove), “It’s been a party, ain’t it?”
Yes it has. I leave you with, of course, a country goodbye: “The last goodbye’s the hardest one to say...
This is where the cowboy rides away.” (“The Cowboy Rides Away”, George Strait) Thanks for the ride, y’all.

Classes are starting right now. Call 1-800-KAP-TEST or 333-7737 in Charlotte.

KAPLAN
The answer to the test question.
