THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 1993

Artist's Exhibit Depicts Symbolism for the Self
Crull’s Work Displayed in Chambers
By Chris Hoveland

The Art Department is sponsoring an exhibit of the New York artist Ford Crull in the Chambers Gallery through February
10. Crull was born in Boston in 1952 and studied at the University of Washington. He has exhibited in many
one-man shows in New York and elsewhere, as well as in group exhibitions. One of his group shows was the
“New York Artists in Moscow” exhibition of 1989 where his works were seen along with those of Professor Herb Jackson.

Ford Crull calls himself a “neo-symbolist.” His style indicates the influence of the neo-Expressionists of the eighties but also adopts
some of the techniques of the Surrealists, particularly “automatic writing.” A personal (and indecipherable) symbolic language interspersed among a forcefully
applied matrix of strokes energizes his canvases and gives the impression of a mysteriously organic entity. In Forms of his
Secret Life (1982), a piece in four panels, Crull examines the nature of his personal mythology by breaking through the
conflicts within the psyche. The means of understanding is expression, as if the act itself is one of healing, a
purging of mental and emotional scars. The canvases are laden with crosses, faces, phrases, swastikas, and “no’s.” He scratches the
surfaces with brush-ends, metaphorically and urgently digging for his own history. He drips paint, exposing an aspect of himself while
hiding another.

Other works such as Self-Portrait (1984) use two canvas panels. In this particular work, one panel shows a rough self-portrait
while the other half lacks any central figure; the familiar matrix of symbols asserts itself with equal weight.

See "Crull" on page 12

Body of Evidence Unimpressive
By Mary McCrory and Will Lazenby

Welcome back, movie fans. It’s too early in the semester to do any real studying yet, so we thought we'd
catch Body of Evidence starring Willem Dafoe, Madonna, Joe Mantegna, and Anne Archer. The setting is Portland, Oregon. A wealthy,
older man dies of a heart attack, and everyone becomes convinced that his younger lover, played by Madonna, used violent
sex to kill him. The plot thickens when we realize that he left the vamp $8 million. Much of the
movie takes place in the courtroom, where Joe Mantegna and Willem Dafoe play opposing lawyers. Nobody’s going to win an
Oscar here, but Willem Dafoe (Platoon, Mississippi Burning) does a good job of portraying Madonna’s sleazy defense lawyer. He is
one of the only things we like about this movie, actually.

The rest of the film leaves a lot to be desired. We don’t know which to blame, the acting or
the writing. Joe Mantegna whines his way through his part as the D.A. Anne Archer (Patriot Games, Fatal Attraction) whimpers
through her part as the conniving secretary. And then there’s Madonna. First of all, she doesn’t even look good. Her
complexion looks pasty, and her makeup looks smudged all the time. On top of that, her acting is unconvincing and
the lines written for her are, well, dumb. Even though she does improve towards the end it is only a
graduation from bad to mediocre. When she says things like, “There’s nothing wrong with admitting you want me,” you can’t
help but cringe because you really DON’T want her.

Let’s face it, one reason people will want to see this is that there are supposedly such great sex scenes.
Well, hormone junkies, despite the NC-17 rating, there just isn’t that much going on. If for some reason you feel
compelled to go see this, it does offer a minor reward in its interesting ending. Nevertheless,Body of Evidence is an
unimpressive movie. Go see Aladdin or Scent of a Woman instead.

Davidson College Presents Robert Pinsky
"As spirited and weighty, eloquent and startling, as any poet of his generation"
- J. D. McClatchey, New Republic
February 1, 7:30, Hodson Hall, FREE

by Matt Bumstead

1992 was a big year in Nashville, to put it mildly. Country music has taken over, on the radio, in
the record stores, and even on television. The heights of 1991 were, it seems, eclipsed by the great achievements in
sales and media attention made by the Country music industry. The members of the Baby Boom generation, seeking some kind
of music into which they can sink their teeth, have been left flat by pop music today. So they have
turned to country, where the new generation of entertainers has stepped up the quality of music and songwriting. The result
has been big.

One of the biggest stories of 1992 involved the advent of one of the most brilliantly executed marketing strategies of
all time; Mercury Records, with a fit of genius, put 110% of its artistic resources into creating a package they
were certain was the greatest thing since the wheel. That splendid little package came wrapped in a long ponytail, complete
with a video that made him look as popular as Elvis (amazing... when this was only his first song) and
a song—a catchy, clever little tune. And, boy, did they ever buy into this one. Hats off to those wizards
at Mercury, who convinced over five million people that Billy Ray Cyrus was the second coming of Hank Williams (whose
heart, were he alive today, would be aching at the comparison).

Other big news of 1992? Well... Mary-Chapin Carpenter brought home the female vocalist trophy at the CMA’s, leaving Wynonna Judd
(who had to split MCA votes with Reba and Trisha Yearwood) behind. Brooks and Dunn moved in to take over
as the best duo in Country music for as long as they stay together. Garth Brooks (wowing the National Anthem
at the Super Bowl in honor of the Dallas Cowboys' imminent victory) made NBC’s ratings shoot so high with a
television special that the network decided to air it again. He released The Chase and Beyond the Season, both of
which helped him to dig his boots in deeper in his position at the top of the country heap. He
won CMA Entertainer of the Year again and made a historical mark by having all five of his albums in
the top 20 on the album charts.

Greedy producers and companies have made moves that signify what could, in the end, be the cause of a decline
in country’s popularity. George Strait starred in Pure Country (which, though amounting to no more than some studio wanting a
piece of the country boom pie, was entertaining); ABC televised a disastrous one-hour country special, produced by a company that
is in no way associated with Nashville. The result: women in leather dancing with whips and getting funky to Doug
Stone ballads and Clint Black melodies. Mary-Chapin Carpenter, who looked nauseous, tried to leave the set, but she was threatened
with a lawsuit and was forced to co-host the spectacle.

Oh, ye sorry haters of country music, you may have found the light at the end of your tunnel. If
1993 follows suit, and everyone tries to sink into the rich well of country popularity, it will undoubtedly go dry.
George Jones was inducted into the Hall of Fame. Travis Tritt bumbled his way through the year and is currently
one of the top males on the circuit. Oh yeah—and Clint Black left Lisa for...

See "Bumstead" on page 12.
