CHRISTMAS MONDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1993

'Twas the week before Christmas and all through the school
Everyone was stirring, cause someone's a fool.
Some of us were drunk, as we wanted to be,
And while others studied, we guzzled with glee.
In our mouths and bellies and our hands was the Beast
As we sat and imbibed the ultimate feast.
Swimming in merriment, there was little wonder
That our dreams of good grades had gone all asunder,
But still we were glad to be with our buds
And soak our sorrows in those wondrous suds.
For some this is blasphemy, our drunken tendency
But for us it was wonderful, a way to escape
The fact that all semester we hadn't had a date.
So we sang and we danced and we yelled at the moon,
Knowing our end was coming and way, way too soon.
And while we could have done something to rescue
Our dreams of being a lawyer with the power to sue,
We knew full and well that those dreams were just that
Even for a magician with a big magic hat.
For try as you may and try as you might
Santa can't bring everything on Christmas night.
So we buckled down and set to our task
Of drinking everything in the room that might go in a flask.
And then it struck one person that there was still a hope
That our teacher was under the influence of dope
When he or she graded our papers and tests
And forgot that all along we'd been a real pest
In their class about philosophy, or something or other.
For while studying was one thing, we did another
Thing with our time, our time that is,
Like trying to hook up with a cute girl named Liz.
So we drank and we wallowed
And a few drugs we swallowed
And laughed at the fact that our parents would be pissed
When they learned about the million classes we missed.
But then there was Johnny, locked away in his room
Preparing to avoid that ultimate doom
Of not knowing what your finals hold in store
Just because you find studying such a big bore.
And then we came to, and looked around the place
And realized we had to come to face
That unless we got sober and studied some more
Davidson would laugh at us and shut the door
On our dreams of the good life
With a flaming hot love life,
And while we knew we wouldn't get an A, we knew that was OK
Cause Christmas, it's a Holiday
And the semester is almost over.

-Chris Frampton
Stephen Faller

Crappy seasonal conversation.

Point of interest. There are two strange phenomena that I have noticed flowing around Davidson. They aren’t intrinsically Davidson problems, or perhaps not problems at all, but they are something worth noting. The first is something I call “seasonal conversation.” After three years here, I’ve noticed a few trends. I’ve noticed that good conversation, the stuff that gets your mind going, is hard to find. However, plenty of people talk about the latest Davidson crisis. A wise friend revealed to me that everything here is a crisis, or is at least seen that way. How was your summer? What will you take? What are you doing for fall break? What did you do for fall break? How many midterms do you have? What are you doing for Thanksgiving? How was Thanksgiving? Sound old? Sound dead? Sound cold? It is. If I’m right, we’ll be talking about finals, and then break, by the time the paper comes out.

The other is “battle of the busy-ness.” It is to complain; a competition to have the worst load. It is prideful and bitter simultaneously. One fellow student actually said that he won. Won what? Who knows? But I don’t think it’s to our credit that if we ever met Job, we’d say, “Boils? I’ve got finals! Four! Aw, man!” Conversation, it seems to me, is an attempt to connect with another soul, but you can go through hundreds of these things and still feel very disconnected. Why is it that this drivel is the only thing we can find to talk about? What’s wrong with us?

Then, there’s all of this stuff, which is really a non-stuff (a nothing that we’re trying to use in the place of something) in the face of Christmas. What is Christmas? I think that’s a question that’s been pulling us apart for years. Psychologists say it’s the most depressing time of the year, and plenty of people counter that with persistent “good tidings and good cheer.” Either the holiday is the commercial Holt Vaughn Christmas is one of my moments of time. It was two weeks before exams, and I had never been so stressed. Three papers, a presentation, no girlfriend, hungry, plane reservations for home, get back in shape, no girlfriend, obnoxious roommate (just kidding, Sean), two meetings, car wash, catch up on my reading, bike stolen, get clothes from laundry, pay the dumb CD club so they’ll quit sending me Stevie Wonder CDs, and no girlfriend. But I had to keep studying. So I sat there staring blankly at “Zen and Japanese Culture” for over two hours and fifty pages. Yet, I didn’t remember one thing.had read. All I could think about was the things that were stressing me out. I was so hungry. I started to fantasize about “Oodles of Noodles” and a Blueberry Muffin. Mmmmmm—“Concentrate!” I kept telling myself. So I did. I read the same paragraph four times and each time understood it less and less. I decided I needed a study break. After all, everyone needs a break—even smart people. So I threw on my Patagonia jacket and started my way to the Union. The cold air bit into my skin no more than ten feet out of the library doors and my ears felt like they were going to freeze off the sides of my head. So I pulled my Spurs cap low and buried my ice fists into my pockets of warmth. As I began to walk—briskly, my mind started to wander and stress about my papers, presentation, etc. The more I thought about my troubles, the more I stressed, and the faster I walked. Scurrying through the library courtyard and past Chambers, I knew the trail by memory and didn’t even have to look up—until I heard that sound. It was faint but clear. It got clearer and clearer until I realized the sound was voices singing—on the front steps of Chambers. It was that Christmas party that I heard about. I thought about going earlier that evening but I opted not to because of my workload. But wait—they might have food. Not Oodles of Noodles, or anything that good, but I did hear they might have cookies. Free cookies, that is. So I decided to stroll over to the circle of people. Boyfriends had their arms around girlfriends. The local residents were out with their husbands, wives, children, and even a few dogs. To say the least, I was amazed at the turnout. There were hundreds of people there. I saw a lot of my friends, but I decided to keep a low profile because of my time schedule. So I just kind of lingered in the background and started to people watch. Everybody had candles melted on pieces of paper, and they were singing Christmas carols along with the choir. People were talking and laughing. Boyfriends had their arms around girlfriends. The local residents were out with husbands, wives, children, and even a few dogs. Teachers were talking with teachers like friends instead of colleagues. Students talking with teachers about everyday things besides tests. No stress about papers, presentations, plane tickets to get home, or anything else. They just seemed to be enjoying the moment. The very precious moment. Then the singing halted on one sudden note. Everyone from child, parent, student to teacher stopped what they were doing and looked up. It was like a blanket of silence overtook the courtyard. For no more than a few drawn-out seconds, everyone in the crowd was the same. No students, no teachers, no parents, no children, no classes, no fraternities, no eating houses, no halls, no sports. Just people. People sharing a moment together that would never be relived. Then the Christmas lights were lit. You could see the sparkling trees in the reflection of everyone’s eyes. People started to scream “Merry Christmas!” as loud as they could. Buddies were slapping hands, girls were giggling, and couples were kissing. A Rock and Roll song came over the speakers and people started dancing, smiling, running around, hugging everyone and anyone around them. It was one of the most beautiful things I think I had ever seen on campus. Yeah, the lights were nice, the music set the mood, and the sky was peaceful—but what really struck my attention were the smiles. The smiles on every single person there. Smiles of absolute happiness and appreciation of the moment. Though I was still in the background, the happiness was too contagious and I cracked a smile on my own face as well. I couldn’t help it. And then I left. I walked slowly back to the library completely forgetting how hungry I once was, how stressed I was about papers, and everything else. Thoughts were racing about inside my head about something totally different. Yeah, this place was stressful and, yeah, I had a lot of work to do. But, to me, that’s not what these years of college are really about. Ten years from now—what difference would it make? Who cares what grade I make on my Zen Buddhism test? I probably won’t even remember I took the class. All I’m going to have to take away from this place is going to be the memories. Memories of those special moments. Memories of those smiling faces. Merry Christmas.