THE DAVIDSONIAN _ARTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1993 13

"Remember Two Things" about the Dave Matthews Band

By Jon Sands & Mandy Curtis

Finally, after almost a month of waiting, the first Dave Matthews Band CD was released. But where is it available?
The quest continued from Home Town to Repo, until we were able to get our hands on it from The
Record Exchange in Charlotte.

Now the fun part: Listening to the band from Charlottesville, Virginia in the car on the way home to Davidson.
We’d all seen them play this fall a bunch of times; but to hear them on CD was something different.

It consists of six live tracks and four in the studio with a stereogram CD cover that you will have
to figure out yourself. Entitled “Remember Two Things,” it has live recordings done at Trax in Charlottesville, the Flood Zone
in Richmond, and The Muse in Nantucket, Rhode Island. The members of the band include Dave Matthews, guitar and vocals;
Stefan Lessard, bass; Boyd Tinsley, violin and vocals; Leroi Moore, woodwinds and vocals; and Carter Beauford, percussion and vocals. Truly,
the unique sound, a combination of instruments and vocals, is captured on CD; but it is also true that the
CD cannot possibly do them justice as performers.

Anyway, the two most distinctive features about the band, besides Stefan, the hot bassist (Mandy speaking, of course), are Boyd’s
violin and Dave’s voice. Boyd graduated from UVa, where most of their following is located, and can play a violin
like never seen or heard before. For us, he brings new meaning to an instrument we’ve always thought sounded like
something you were forced to play when you were in the little elementary school band. Dave’s voice is the most
amazing because he’s got this funky South African accent that you can hear in his music. Okay, okay; he’s pretty
hot too. (According to Mandy)

What separates Dave Matthews from the rest of the cheesy Velveeta-crap cover bands (Did someone say the Root Doctors?) is
Dave’s skill as a lyricist. He mocks society and brings a cynical tone of humor to his music that makes
it extraordinary. In the first track of the CD, “Ants Marching,” he states, “Candyman teasing the thoughts of a sweet
tooth tortured by weight loss.” Then he goes on to remind you of the importance of always being who you
want to be as he says in “Seek Up,” “Forget about the reasons and the treasons we are seeking. Forget
about the notion that our emotions can be swept away. Forget about being guilty, we areon this debut CD. Due
to the fact that Dave has over forty songs, he is practically ready to put out a box set. But
the truth is that he and his gang are currently negotiating with RCA for a contract. So the simple fact
that songs like “Grannie,” “Warehouse,” and “Typical” did not make the CD is that they are waiting for a big
studio and lots of money to serve the songs justice. The CD is a tribute to their amazing live performances,
but don’t think you can listen to the CD and expect you know what the show will sound like because
the jams and intros are cut out. So go ON THE SCENE and see them live. When Boyd Tinsley lowers
his cowboy hat over his eyes and leans back and smiles his grin of grins and electrifies the crowd with
his fiddle, it is a moment to be treasured. When we saw them play at The Vanripers Music Festival last
spring, which was held in the countryside outside of Charlottesville with Allgood, Everything, and The Samples, they were hands down
the crowd favorite. Of course, this is because it was held in the Dave Matthews Mecca of the world. Therefore,
it was no coincidence that the local band blew the others out of the water.

If you try to categorize them, you can’t. It is a group that is almost completely acoustic without the electric
bass. Clearly, they have a message in their music. There is the continuous theme of “free spirit,” “free will,” and
appreciation for life. But it is also important to note that these guys aren't so bogged down with sentiment and
symbolism that they don't have a good time on stage with each other and in interaction with the audience. Much
of what they are about, although difficult to discern from one CD, is that it all comes down to the
fact they are fun and a blast to see. And if you do remember two things about this article, one
should be to get to Charlotte and buy the CD and the second should be to try to see them
live. They sometimes play at Vanripers and Ziggy’s, they are a sure thing at Trax in Charlottesville every Tuesday, and
the Flood Zone in Richmond on Wednesday nights. The lines in “Tripping Billies” are a good summary of what kind
of spirit the band brings to the stage and to the audience every time they play. It is simply stated:
“So why would you care; To get out of this place; You and me and all our friends; such a
happy human race; eat, drink, and be merry for tomorrow we die.”

ART
Visual Arts Center, Davidson. VAC.

MUSIC
Jonathan Dimmock, Organist. Mon, Nov. 22 at 8:00 p.m. DCPC Sanctuary.

THEATER
Due to the Thanksgiving Holidays, not much is on the scene this week.
Tommie Robinson Exhibition. All week. Edward M. Smith Gallery.
Kenneth Noland Exhibit. All week. William H. Van Every Gallery.
Jerry Hadley: Metropolitan Opera tenor, Fri, Nov. 23 at 8 p.m. North Carolina Blumenthal Performing Arts Center.
Retrieving the Lamb. A play performed by Theatre Charlotte. Dec. 2-4, 9-11, 16-18. Call 334-9128 for more details.

MISCELLANEOUS/SPEAKERS
Coffeehouse. 900 Room, Tues, Nov. 23. 8:30 a.m. - 11:00 a.m.
Twenty-one Year Olds Night. 10:30 p.m. 900 Room. Tues, Nov. 23.

THANKSGIVING BREAK STARTS WEDNESDAY. Have a great vacation, if your teachers haven’t assigned you tons of papers, tests & books
for the day you get back.

-Compiled by Rachel Newcomb
