THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1993

Students: "Where is voicemail?"
By Katherine Hash

Anxious students, faculty, and college personnel may be reassured that the long-awaited campus-wide computerized voice processing system, “voice mail,” is
indeed coming. Administrative Services originally projected that installation of the voice mail system would be completed while students were off
campus during Fall Break, October 15-19. The process, however, proved to be more time-consuming than expected. The completion date has
been moved to November 15.

Mr. Bob Stephenson, Director of Administrative Services, points to two factors which have delayed the installation of the system. The
process of setting up individual mailboxes in the computer for each user, a task which Administrative Services is tackling, is
proving to be very time-consuming. An initial greeting must also be recorded for each box. In order to have the
desired human voices rather than computerized ones on the greeting, Administrative Services has to find and train student volunteers willing
to record these greetings in their spare time.

According to Stephenson, the plan for installation in student housing is based on seniority. Installation was completed in Duke on
October 20 and in all of the Senior Apartments on October 28. Lingle Manor and the Patterson Court House apartments
were completed at the end of last week. Installation will continue in the following order: Watts, Cannon, and Sentelle; Irwin,
Knox, and Akers; Belk; and finally, Richardson and Little. All systems should be up and running by November 15.

The campus administrative offices are just as eager as students to get their systems installed, and Administrative Services is working
hard to accommodate them as well. Institutional Advancement was completed on October 20 with Computer Services following shortly after. The
Admissions and Financial Aid office will be installed this week along with the NCAA Soccer tournament ticket and information line.
Faculty offices are next on the list.

Initial student reaction to the new system has been a combination of excitement, intimidation, and confusion. Sophomore Beth Lindsay admits
to having shied away from the thick user’s manual in the beginning; however, she, like most, soon realized that the
basic answering machine type functions--sending and receiving messages--could be learned in less than ten minutes. Kristi Kops, F-crew co-coordinator, is
not yet on the system but is looking forward to being able to record one message and send it simultaneously
to all F-crew members. All students have access to this capability of creating a “distribution list” of up to ten
names. Other favorite features include: the ability to send and retrieve messages from any on or off-campus phone, the “future
delivery” option which allows messages to be recorded and sent at a predetermined date in the future, and “call confirmation”
which instructs the system to inform the sender when a message has been heard.

Despite the variety of options and capabilities available with the new system, some students are holding out. Senior Towner Blackstock
has chosen to bypass the voice mail system by setting his answering machine to pick up before the system. Blackstock
cites his recent purchase of a new answering machine, his lack of motivation to learn a new system, and his
attachment to “the blinking red light” as reasons for his decision. Those students who are considering this option are encouraged
to go ahead and set up their boxes once they are installed and use the basic features until they have
a chance to explore other options. They are also reminded that a computerized voice provides instructions which make the system
easy to learn. Administrative Services advises students not to allow their preconceptions to turn them away.

New apartment will drastically affect the lottery system
From the staff.

Fancy Dress? An idea for a campus-wide event
By Mandy Curtis & Rachel Newcomb

A recent article in The Davidsonian stressed that many students are unhappy with the exclusiveness of the three main date
functions: Homecoming, Midwinters, and Spring Frolics. Inevitably, the weekends end up being fraternity-oriented; these occasions are closed to independents as
well as women who are not invited. Despite the Union’s futile attempts to organize “campus-wide” activities, there is nothing that
brings the entire campus together. The article also pointed out that when women’s houses host date functions, they are on
separate, isolated nights. It seems ironic that on a campus that aims to stress inclusiveness, these events defy any attempt
to create a sense of community. By community, we mean everyone--all eating houses, fraternities, the Black Student Coalition, independents, and
faculty.

Washington & Lee, a school similar to Davidson in size and student body composition, carries on a tradition called “Fancy
Dress Ball.” Every year in March, the entire campus comes together for a week-long celebration that includes open band parties,
a concert, an afternoon clam bake, sorority dinners, fraternity cocktail parties, and a formal ball. It is a good chance
for everybody to get together despite individual affiliations. We propose changing one of the week-

By Susan Warren

Lottery processes will change this coming year due to the new senior apartments. The new building will have 18 new
suites, accommodating 90 students. The building will have 5 bedrooms per suite instead of the traditional 4. The change in
the style of building occurred because the cost of building an apartment withLess than 5 bedrooms was too expensive. With
this new building, a new phase needs to be added to the lottery process. Residence Life’s Richard Terry spoke to
the SGA on Tuesday night with his proposal for the new lottery process. The new part of the lottery will
consist of a new primary phase. Groups of five will apply for an apartment first. The “5-person” apartments will be
assigned, with at least two weeks to spare before groups of 4 apply for an apartment. Residence Life hopes the
two weeks between the two phases will be sufficient for the regrouping of the five-person groups, for the group must
decide which individual will be dropped, and the “dropped individual” will have to find another group to join. Concerns have
been expressed about the traumatic experience the “dropped” individual will have to go through. Terry agreed that though the individual
may not be happy, overall 90 more people have apartments and therefore there will be “many more happier folks.” Due
to the new phase, the lottery will have to start even earlier this year, probably in mid-February. Other than the
new phase, the lottery process has undergone minor changes. Requests for off-campus housing will be allotted by lottery instead of
the first-come-first-serve basis that has prevailed in the past. Students will no longer be able to retain their rooms, due
to the vast differences in housing.

Student forum to discuss American foreign policy & problems
By Eric Collings

Where was everyone at 5 p.m. on either Thursday, October 14 or Thursday, October 28? They should have been at
the Carolina Inn for the first two Dean Rusk Program Student Forums. Sponsored by the Student Advisory Committee of the
Dean Rusk Program, these open discussions on Somalia and NAFTA began a series of bi-monthly student-led gatherings which will seek
to heighten campus awareness and supplement general knowledge about current international topics. Led by Mike Savona, the first meeting examined
the transformation of the goals of the United States’ intervention in Somalia from “humanitarian aid” under George Bush to “nation
building” under President Clinton. Students debated the necessity of continued United States presence, questioned the effectiveness of the United Nations’
role, and identified the need for a concrete, well-defined vision for United States foreign policy. The NAFTA forum, guided by
Tim Ogden, Jennifer Reid, and Saad Gul, explored the merits and deficiencies of four distinct perspectives: 1) the anti-NAFTA stance
espoused by the unlikely coalition of Ross Perot, Richard Gephardt, Jesse Jackson, and the unions, 2) U.S. Trade Representative Mickey
Kantor's pro-free trade argument, 3) the imperialist viewpoint that the United States wishes to manipulate NAFTA to dominate Mexico, and
4) the economists’ considerations. Also considered were the importance of NAFTA to the stalled Uruguay Round of the General Agreement
on Trade and Tariffs, the worldwide movement towards trade blocks, and the impact of the election in Canada of the
Liberal Party of Jean Chretien upon the future of NAFTA. The Dean Rusk SAC hopes that the relaxed atmosphere of
these meetings, devoid of the formality of professor-initiated forums or lectures, will encourage all students to attend, ask questions freely,
and voice their opinions without inhibition. The forums primarily intend to clarify and simplify the vast complexities of today’s international
scene by correcting common misconceptions and identifying key issues and players. The forums will also explore broader themes such as
“What satisfies a national interest?” and “What is the role of the United States?”

ends, ideally Midwinters, to an event that “involves everyone.” With the mental and monetary cooperation of all the social organizations,
we could create a weekend that would define the Davidson community. On this weekend, students wouldn’t just be a part
of something that is less than the whole. Women could invite men, or men could invite women. Previous to this
weekend, a committee would be created specifically for the purpose of organization. This committee would include members from every social
group on campus, and would plan the theme and arrange the weekend’s events. Tickets could be sold which would cover
souvenirs such as t-shirts, posters, shot glasses, cups, etc. The proceeds from the ticket sales and the collective contributions from
individual social organizations would go toward music, decorations, and beverages. Envision this: Thursday night, a traditional ladies’ lock-in for all
the women on campus that opens up to the men at eleven. On Friday night, a school-wide formal in either
Johnston Gym or Baker. Saturday afternoon, there could be some sort of campus celebration with live music and food in
the middle of Patterson Court. Saturday night, a sweet band, capping the weekend off with open parties. Cocktail parties and
dinners would be left up to individual groups. It is unfortunate that we have not been able to find activities
that we can work on and experience together. We are not offering that all three big weekends need to be
changed; we are just suggesting making one an all-inclusive activity. Certainly, this is something that Davidson could use. A social
system dominated by an exclusive group needs change and we think that this could lead to one. This would depend
on the student body acting together for once. Think about it.
