12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1993

Flip Side

Nirvana's latest, In Utero, marks retreat from MTV

I was thinking all week about how I could discuss Nirvana’s new album, In Utero, without mentioning their earth-shattering major
label debut Nevermind. After all, Nirvana and Nevermind are one and the same to all but a few brave souls
who bought their early album Bleach and their outtake collection Incesticide. To neglect the ubiquitous album of the 1990s and
the envy of over-the-hill rock stars everywhere would be as easy as starting an interview with the Village People by
saying, “Let’s not talk about your disco years...”

Listening to In Utero makes me realize what a good album Nevermind is. The catch is that I like both.
Nevermind stood out because of the consistent and sympathetic production of Butch Vig, who helped them sound live and loud
without burying the pop hooks that helped them seize control of the FM dial for most of 1992. In Utero
is neither as consistent nor as catchy. The best single example of the band’s unwillingness to make another collection full
of pop nuggets is the fourth song on the album. It begins, and continues throughout, with a virtual carbon copy
of the “Smells Like Teen Spirit” guitar riff. Number one with a bullet, right? The greed-induced tears of the record
company executives probably started flowing about 10 seconds in, when Kurt Cobain opened his big mouth: “Rape me, my friend,
rape me again.”

The other eleven songs on the album find different ways of avoiding the radio appeal of “Lithium” or “Teen Spirit.”
Some are like “Rape Me,” with lyrics meant to weed out the faint of heart: “Every wet nurse refused to
feed him; electrolytes smell like semen.” Others have so much distorted screaming and writhing that people looking for another song
like “Come As You Are” will do a lot of fast forwarding. Feedback and studio chatter is abundant—my favorite is
the beginning of the loudest song on the album, “tourette’s,” in which bassist Chris Novoselic says in a game show-host
voice over guitar feedback, “Moderate rock!” It’s fairly obvious that Nirvana is trying to distance itself.

Author Tim McLaurin to speak at DC

By Rachel Newcomb

The New York Times has described Tim McLaurin as a writer who “has real talent. He is a moving writer—never
cute, nor overly colloquial—and his prose has a lyrical clarity that conveys with unusual dignity the integrity of his own
experience.” This North Carolina writer will appear in the 900 room on Tuesday, October 5, at 7:30 p.m.

A Chapel Hill resident, McLaurin was raised in a family of six children near Fayetteville, North Carolina. In 1985, he
received his B.A. in Journalism from the University of North Carolina. He has served in both the Marines and the
Peace Corps in Tunisia and is married to Katie Oliver Early, Davidson Class of 1974. In 1988, McLaurin published his
first novel, The Acorn Plan, and Woodrow’s Trumpet followed in 1989. His most recent book, Keeper of the Moon, chronicles
his life, from his childhood in Fayetteville to his debilitating battle with myeloma, a rare form of bone cancer. Keeper
of the Moon has received critical praise as well as The Mayflower Award of the North Carolina Literary and Historical
Societies for best non-fiction work of 1991. On Tuesday afternoon, McLaurin will also autograph books at Main Street Books in
Davidson. McLaurin’s third novel, Cured by Fire, will be published in the spring of 1994.

Source: Literary Arts Committee

Vegetarianism benefits more than health

Vegies continued from page 11

There are even more health benefits of a vegetarian diet. A vegetarian diet tends to be much lower in fat
and calories. Because the diet is lower in fat, the digestive system is able to break down the food much
faster. Fruits and vegetables take 20 minutes to completely digest, while a steak can take up to 12 hours. The
faster food digests, the more energy your body has for other things. This is why you may hear vegetarians claim
that they have so much energy, and this is also why you may hear someone who has just finished a
big steak say that he or she feels tired.

But what about protein? You have probably had your mother lecture you at some point on the dangers of not
getting enough protein. It has long been a common myth that vegetarians do not get enough protein. That rumor is
completely untrue. According to Nathan Pritikin, an expert on nutrition, it is almost impossible not to get enough protein when
eating a diet sufficient in calories. Only six percent of daily calories need to come from protein, and it is
virtually impossible to get below nine percent. Actually, the biggest protein problem lies in getting too much protein. An excess
of protein depletes the bones of calcium. This can lead to osteoporosis, a disease which causes a “hunchback” appearance and
affects 25% of women over 65 in the U.S. This disease is non-existent among vegetarian women.

Junior Nat May defines another reason not to eat meat: the plight of the animals. He says he has been
a vegetarian since 1991 because, “I don’t think meat is good for me, I don’t like the way the animals
are treated, and I don’t think it is a good use of resources.” Most of the meat that we consume
today has been obtained from animals that have been badly mistreated. The image of the happy cow that lives on
a spacious farm until she becomes dinner is no longer an accurate picture. Today’s cows, pigs, and chickens live in
factories until the time of slaughter. The animals are injected with numerous hormones to fatten them up so that the
process can beaccelerated. When the animals are slaughtered, it is often in an inhumane manner. Another major reason for abstaining
from meat comes from an economical and ecological perspective. Seventy percent of our nation’s grain is fed to the animals
that we eat. David Pimentel, a Cornell University professor, estimates that converting back to a natural grass-feed system for livestock
would allow thirty million more tons of grain to be used for direct human consumption, enough to feed over 400
million people. Millions of people in third world countries die of starvation every year, while millions of Americans die of
health-related diseases. So, before you ask a vegetarian if they would not rather “enjoy their lives and die younger” than
“eat nuts and twigs and die old,” be aware that vegetarians do eat well and do enjoy their lives. Choosing
to be a vegetarian does not mean that you have to give up happiness; for many, it just means being
happier about a lifestyle choice.

Country and democracy

Dixie continued from page 11

different matter. We don’t need a president. We don’t need an election. We don’t need to know who’s the best.
I don’t want my heroes out there campaigning for reelection. I want them in the studio and on the stage.
I want them pure and unstained. If the Country Music Association needs to have an awards show, why recognize the
“best” performers? Who’s to say who should be up there? Why not recognize something concrete and commendable? What about the
Tennessee boy who played the honky tonks for ten years and just hit the big time? What about the Kentucky
girl who’s still cutting albums after forty years? What about the fan who drove a thousand miles to see his
hero play? This is Country. I don’t care who sold the most albums or packed the biggest stadium. Call me
an idealist. Call me naive. I don’t care. Just keep the contests out of my Country music.

from the increasingly polished and pathetic Seattle myth that MTV and the press have given them undue credit for starting.
“Our favorite patient, display of patience, disease-covered Puget Sound” is one of the most clearly enunciated lines of “Frances Farmer
Will Have Her Revenge On Seattle.” Cobain, Novoselic, and drummer Dave Grohl have made themselves out to be the Charles
Barkleys of rock-n-roll, enormously popular with teenagers and feeling intense pressure to turn themselves into G-rated, M.C. Hammer-like role models.
They have stayed true to themselves to the chagrin of many.

Seattle sound

If anything, In Utero reflects the two greatest events in head songwriter Cobain’s life: the birth of his son and
his explosion into stardom. The songs, which recall the raunchier days of 1989’s Bleach, are simultaneously childish and wise (“I
miss the comfort in being sad”). Nirvana talks like Beavis and Butthead—“If you ever need anything, don’t hesitate to ask
someone else first”—but you can tell they are not so dumb. They have experienced the roller-coaster ride of becoming a
corporate product and poster boys for a so-called “Lost Generation”—and have come out screaming like newborns.

Movie Review

"The Good Son" just isn't

By Scott McLean

O, be still my beating heart! O, woe is me! O, this the season of my malcontent! Roll of thunder
hear my cry! I am beginning to think that I have been cursed—doomed forever to watch crappy movies for the
pleasure of Davidsonian readers everywhere. Well, at least I don’t have to pay to see a flick anymore so I
guess that is one good thing that has come out of all this. Anyway, the latest in the string of
stinkers to arrive from Hollywood is “The Good Son,” starring that “Home Alone” wonderkid Macaulay Culkin. Yet another variation on
the 50’s thriller “The Bad Seed,” this version features little Mac as a psychotic grade-schooler who’s pulled the wool over
everyone’s eyes with his “good son” act. While Culkin shines in a couple of scenes, he fails to click in
the role and what has the potential for a great thriller spirals down into disaster. As an acquaintance of mine
would say, “The Good Son was baaad.”

Here’s the scenario: After the death of his mother, Mark (Elijah Wood) is taken by his father to stay with
Mark’s uncle and his family which includes cousin Henry (Culkin). Mark and Henry become buddies and every day they run
amok all over the town where Henry lives, playing with his “toys” which include a device that shoots metal bolts
and a life-size dummy called affectionately by the name “Mr. Highwayman” (guess why). Despite this rather damning evidence, it takes
Mark at least halfway through the film to discover that Henry is unstable and dangerous. The movie then dives headlong
into what some may call suspense, but what I call ludicrous and laughable.

It is admirable for Macaulay to go out on a limb here to demonstrate his versatility as an actor, and
it is a shame that it just doesn’t seem to work out for him. However, the whole project is not
a total waste—it is somewhat entertaining to laugh at some of the more colorful lines and sequences in the film
(e.g. Culkin’s infamous “Don’t f— with me” retort is a riot). But as we all know, a few good scenes
do not a fine flick make. For you curious folk out there who are just dying to see a Mac
gone bad, be my guests. As for me, I’d rather stay “home alone” (O.K., this was bad, but y’all knew
it was coming sometime).

MIDTERMS ARE COMING!

Need some help with test anxiety? Come to a free session at STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES BUILDING on Wednesday, October 6
8:00 - 9:00 PM Call ext. 2451 for information or just show up! Don't let test anxiety keep you from
doing your best!
