4. THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1993

Here she is, Ms. Davidson

Photo by Casey Rogers

James Hendrix award winner, David Sprinkle, crowns Homecoming Queen Molly Sentelle during the halftime of Saturday's game. Molly represented the
women of Connor House and was escorted by the Connor Knight, Andy Haile.

Pep band will play tunes to encourage Cat hoops spirit

By Ashley Donnelly

Trombones, saxophones, flutes, piccolos, trumpets, drums, and possibly a tuba will loudly cheer on Davidson’s men’s basketball team this winter.
For the first time in two years, a student-led pep band has formed. The group organized when the Athletic Department
approached sophomore Gray Dyer with the idea. Then, Dyer and sophomore Dave Fischer assumed roles as co-leaders, recruiting the students
who now compose the 24-member band. Jeanette Scire serves as a liaison to the Athletic Department for the students. Initially,
Dr. Lawing helped the group with their music, but according to Dyer, “past the initial advice, the group will be
student-run.”

The pep band played for the Rhodes football game and will play for at least one more home game. The
band will focus on men’s basketball and will play at home games. According to Dyer, they will perform the fight
song and other tunes to “get the crowd into the games and raise school spirit.” The band plans to begin
in full swing in November. Other songs the band will play are catchy, spirited tunes such as the Flintstones theme
song, "The Stripper", "Wipeout", the alma mater, and the national anthem. The athletic department hopes to create a more typical
college atmosphere to attract more community, alumni, and student support.

Campuses see upswing in AIDS tests

0.2% of college students test positive for antibodies to HIV

By Mandy Curtis

It’s 1993 and more and more college students are going to their university health centers for what reflects a generational
attitude towards sex, life, and death. Referred to as a “common rite of passage” for sexually active young people of
the ’90s is an AIDS test. Twenty years ago, the threat of sexually transmitted diseases was the biggest issue facing
students. However, those STDs were treatable, not terminal. Today, the threat of AIDS is a reality that is only now
beginning to be addressed by men and women of all races, social classes, and sexual orientations.

The New York Times reported on October 4: “On Ivy League campuses and at community colleges, in big cities and
in small towns, students are being tested. Couples are tested when they decide to consummate their relationship or make it
exclusive, college physicians said. Some sexually active students are tested every two months. Men and women, gay and straight, are
demanding the test as a prerequisite for intimacy.”

From New York University to UCLA to Antioch College in Ohio, students across the country are being tested for HIV,
sometimes right on campus where confidential or anonymous testing is available. In other instances, students are given referrals for testing
and counseling off campus. Some schools invite county health officials to campus for testing.

In the most recent study in 1990, the Center for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta and the American College
Health Association analyzed blood samples from students of 19 different universities throughout the country. They found that 0.2 percent, one
of every 500, were positive for antibodies to HIV. A spokesman for the center said, “You still have risky behavior
going on on college campuses; it’s misleading to think you’re not at risk because you’re a college student.” A student
from Columbia said: “I definitely feel sheltered up here. I feel that I’m in a culture where it doesn’t happen
to people like us.”

The Stigma of Being Tested

Some test settings offer confidentiality only, while others offer anonymous testing. In confidential testing situations, the result is recorded in
a confidential medical record; however, these records are

Alumni treated like royalty during weekend's activities

Festivity continued from page 1

Mr. David Sprinkle, a distinguished alumnus honored for receiving the James HendrixAward. After the game, players and their parents enjoyed
a covered-dish supper and tailgate party. Students and alumni had the opportunity to mix at various social functions throughout the
weekend. The Union sponsored a Band Party at the Union Outpost Friday night from 10:00-12:30 with music by Electroluxe and
a cash bar. At 12:30, free breakfast was served to the first 100 students. Everyone was invited to attend the
Masquerade Ball Saturday night from 10 p.m. - 1 a.m. in the 900 Room. The Independent Homecoming Queen was crowned
at this campus-wide event where entertainment was provided by disc jockey Vincent Chu. The Masquerade Ball was co-sponsored by the
Union, SGA, the Independents, and the Dean of Students office. Patterson Court activities included a Ladies Lock-in Thursday night co-sponsored
by Warner Hall, Rusk, and Connor, as well as cookouts and semi-formals planned individually by the fraternities. The BSC sponsored
a barbecue cookout for alumni.

Easily accessible to anyone in a health care setting as well as to courts and insurance companies in certain situations.
For this reason, many people prefer an anonymous test done using a code number without any names. However, confidential testing
allows for interaction between the doctor and patient and, if necessary, counseling. According to Georgia Ringle, Davidson’s health educator, the
stigma of being tested is a “big issue of discrimination” not uncommon in our society. Those tested HIV positive may
be denied insurance, health care, or employment.

Davidson in the Picture

Admittedly, there is not an AIDS panic at Davidson and there are not regular testing sessions taking place in the
infirmary, according to Ringle; however, the statistics show that no one is immune to the disease. For college students, the
numbers of reported cases are rapidly increasing. Students continue to practice unsafe sex despite the lectures, knowledge, and statistics. Ringle
explained the Davidson situation to be one of “serial monogamy.” Many couples agree to use the birth control pill as
the only means for contraception. For the time, the relationship is likely to be monogamous. However, it is conceivable that
those same persons involved in the monogamous relationship will be involved in another one after the 6 to 7 month
usual time. Cheating aside, it is not uncommon for a Davidson student to graduate having had 5-8 “monogamous” relationships. The
health center will refer students to centers within Iredell and Mecklenburg county for anonymous HIV testing. “It is always a
good idea to be tested,” said Ringle, “People need to take care of themselves.”

Sources: October 4 issue of The New York Times and Our Bodies, Ourselves

Call Us! 896-8007

NEW ADDITIONS: Twisty Bread, Salad, Cheddar Cheese

©1993 Domino's Pizza Inc.

LATE NITE SPECIAL $6.99 LARGE CHEESE PIZZA No coupon necessary. Order 10 - Close

2 FOR 1 MONDAY ONLY 2 MEDIUM PIZZAS FOR THE PRICE OF A LARGE expires 10-31-93

DEEP DISH FREE TWISTY BREAD WITH ANY LARGE PIZZA expires 10-31-93

THURSDAY ONLY $10.99 2 LARGE 1 TOPPING PIZZAS Additional toppings $1.50 each expires 10-31-93

DELIVERY AREA LIMITED TO INSURE SAFE DRIVING LIMITED TIME ONLY ©1993 DOMINO'S PIZZA INC PARTICIPATING STORES ONLY
