THE DAVIDSONIAN

Carols, candles & Mrs. Claus
By Court McBryde

Davidson students gathered on the lawn in front of Chambers under a starry sky, on a cold December 7 at 10:00 p.m., for a Christmas celebration sponsored by the Union. Some students started their celebrating early with old-time favorite showings of “You’re a Good Man, Charlie Brown” and “The Grinch that Stole Christmas,” which were shown in the 900 Room of the Union. Hot apple cider and cookies welcomed students as they flocked to the lawn. Elves handed out candles to students who took their position in the horseshoe-shaped ring facing Chambers.

The Davidson Choir led everyone in Christmas carols after Davidson’s Chaplain, Robert Spach, read the Christmas story. Santa rappelled down Chambers, avoiding last year’s run-in with the tree. However, this year Davidson’s Christmas was graced with the presence of Mrs. Claus. Decked out in her attire, Mrs. Claus followed Santa Claus down Chambers as students yelled and cheered. Mrs. Claus’s appearance celebrates the 20 years of women at Davidson. One female sophomore thought Mrs. Claus’s appearance showed “good representation of the females at Davidson.”

The singing began to wind down, and on the last verse of “Silent Night, Holy Night,” the two trees on either side of Chambers lit up full of lights while DCPC’s bells rang in the background. On Friday afternoon, the F-Crew went down to Davidson Elementary School and sang Christmas songs and visited with the children.

Christmas with the Union continued through the weekend. The Union Outpost hosted a Blue Grass Christmas, featuring Charlotte’s own Peppercorn Lane on Friday from 9 p.m.-12 a.m. On Saturday, December 12, the Union held a Campus Community Christmas Party. From 2 p.m.-4 p.m., the community gathered to see Santa and the Grinch, sing carols, make ornaments, play games, and enjoy Christmas cheer. Each room in the Union had a particular Christmas theme. Sophomore F-Crew Chair Rosie Molinary commented the party “was a way for the community and students to bond before the holidays. It is something positive Davidson can do for the community.”

The Christmas festivities concluded with Vespers on Sunday night at 7:15.

Program bridges Davidson and J.C. Smith
By Susan Warren

This semester Davidson and Johnson C. Smith College created a joint seminar, “Community Building: Charlotte,” involving students from both colleges. The seminar enrolled 13 students from Davidson and 8 from Johnson C. Smith and was created by Davidson professors Clark Ross and Janet Shannon and Johnson C. Smith professors Bob Sulek and Maxine Moore. The course was designed to provide the enrolled students “with perspective and understanding of urban issues.”

The seminar consisted of lectures led by professors of both schools. Due to discussion groups as well as the lectures, the students from both schools have developed friendships. Janet Shannon, assistant professor of sociology, spoke of the program: “Students, through observation, have opportunities to see what is going on, and learn from their readings the theories and policies behind the reality.”

Ramp makes treasures of VAC accessible
By Katherine Hash

A ramp across the street from the Visual Arts Center will soon make its treasures more accessible to the handicapped and disabled. Physical Plant is currently in the process of building the ramp which is located...Next to Cunningham to be completed over the holiday break. The project was initiated by the Facilities Planning Committee, which is responsible for recognizing needs on campus and establishing priorities for projects. According to committee member John Kelton, the authorization for the construction of the ramp is indicative of the high priority which the committee has assigned to improving accessibility on Davidson’s campus, not just for Davidson’s own handicapped students but for alumni and other visitors. Other recent projects have included the installation of electric doors—which can be opened by remote control in Little, Watts, Cannon, and Sentelle—and the construction of ramps. These enable those in wheelchairs to cross streets on the campus side of Concord Road near the Union and on Main Street across from UCB. Kelton is proud of the significant progress which has been made but realizes that it will be a long time before Davidson is as attractive an option for handicapped students. Unlike St. Andrews College in Laurinburg, Davidson does not recruit handicapped students on the basis of the school’s accessibility and academic programs designed to meet specific handicap needs. While handicap recruitment programs are not a part of the college’s plans at this point, the college does want to make itself an attractive option for all qualified students who are interested. Davidson sophomore Cynthia Luckie and senior Stephen Faller both feel that the college has been very cooperative in accommodating their special needs but agree that there is still a lot which could be done. Luckie met with Kelton just last week to propose the construction of a ramp for Chambers, a project which has not yet been approved due to concerns about disrupting the aesthetic beauty of Chambers. She currently uses the inconvenient and time-consuming lift in the back of Chambers. Faller identified the dorms “down the hill” and the Patterson Court houses, except the Union Outpost, as inaccessible. He would like to see changes in these buildings, additional banisters in Chambers, and wheelchair space in Love.

Photo by Amy Laukkenen
Work on the ramp will be completed over the holiday break.

Call Us! 896-8007

NEW ADDITIONS: Twisty Bread, Salad, Cheddar Cheese

LARGE CHEESE MEAL DEAL
No coupon necessary
2 Qts. PKG. OF KOOL-AID
Sunday-Thursday only
Expires 12-28-93

2 MEDIUM PIZZAS FOR THE PRICE OF A LARGE
Expires 12-28-93

2 MEDIUM PIZZAS FOR THE PRICE OF A MEDIUM
Expires 12-28-93

DEEP DISH FREE TWISTY BREAD WITH PURCHASE OF A MEDIUM WITH TWO OR MORE TOPPINGS
Expires 11-28-93

$8.99 LARGE PIZZA PLUS 1 TOPPING
Expires 11-28-93

$10.99 LARGE 2 PIZZAS
Expires 12-28-93

$14.99 2 LARGE 1 TOPPING PIZZAS + 2 LITER COKE
Expires 12-28-93

DELIVERY AREA LIMITED TO ENSURE SAFE DRIVING. LIMITED TIME ONLY. 1993 CORPORATE PIZZA DEAL. PRICES MAY VARY. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION WHERE APPLICABLE. DRIVERS CARRY LESS THAN $20.