4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1993

Student Missionary Brings Christmas Message to Russia

By Bo Bartholomew

This past Christmas Break I was fortunate to be invited to go to the Soviet Republics in order to take
part in their first Christmas holiday since 1918 and help share the meaning of Christmas. This year marks the first
year in seventy-five years that the people of Russia have been allowed to celebrate Christmas publicly and legally. Many churches
were driven underground during the Communist reign and have been celebrating this special day in private. Now all have freedom
to celebrate publicly.

In honor of this special Christmas in Russia, a group called Together International made up of American and Russian Christian
partners organized a contract with the Soviet Government to erect a 60-foot tall Christmas tree in Moscow’s Red Square. In
the middle of December, the artificial tree was delivered from California and set up between the Kremlin clock tower and
the colorful St. Basil’s Cathedral.

Ten Americans made up the American half of Together International: myself, my parents, my sister Anne, and Ken Alexandrov (a
metro cop in Nashville), Reverend and Mrs. Watson of the First Baptist Church of Miami, Mr. and Mrs. Sprinkle (contributors
from Miami), and Deneen Alexandrov. Deneen Alexandrov is a gospel singer who has a Russian mother and a Ukrainian grandmother.
She learned both languages growing up and now has produced the first gospel album in Russian with the help of
the Russian government. Deneen organized and ran the trip for all of us.

Our Russian partners were businessmen in Moscow and leading officials of Dynamo, the powerful soccer organization in the Ukraine. With
this group, we set out to let as many people as possible know the reason for Christmas. We visited several
orphanages and homes for mentally retarded children. I got to tell several children about how Jesus died for them and
about His birthday. We gave each child a Children’s Bible translated into Russian and a Barbie doll or matchbox car.
These children had a few toys, but never any they could keep and call their own.

At one home for mentally retarded children, my sister and I did a skit in which I acted like a
plane and a chicken. After the skit and a prayer, we helped the children look through their new Bibles and
play with their new toys. As I was helping one girl play with her Barbie doll, a game at which
I did not have much experience, she started hugging me and muttering something in Russian. The joy in her smile,
which I could definitely understand, made the whole trip worthwhile.

At the end of the trip, one orphanage gave a song and dance show for us, and several little boys
ran up to see if I would dance with them. I didn’t realize the impact we had made on these
children. They had so little in their lives compared to the worst orphanages in America, and yet they were still
full of joy. In rooms the size of one of the history classrooms in Chambers, there would be twelve to
fifteen little beds. It is hard to imagine the life people live outside of America because we are so well
off.

When we weren’t at an orphanage, we spent a lot of time on Red Square around the Christmas tree even
though it was zero degrees Fahrenheit (not counting the wind chill). Rev. Watson brought around 40,000 copies of a pamphlet
my mother and I had made which told about the Christmas tree, Christmas, and Jesus Christ. Walking around the tree
giving these pamphlets out, we were amazed to see the delight on faces in the crowd around the 60 ft
tall Christmas tree. In the United States, this would have been a simple pleasure. The pieces of paper we handed
out would have ended up on the floor before anyone would even care to read them, but in Russia, people
were curious and glad to receive what we had to offer.

As I was handing out our tracts, one babushka or Russian grandmother gave me a big smile showing her many
gold-capped teeth and motioned for me to dance with her to the music of the festival. It was sort of
a jig rather than a dance and I think its main purpose was to keep you warm. Several older ladies
were whirling around to the upbeat Russian disco music.

On New Year’s Eve came the big tree-lighting ceremony. Because there are two Christmas days in Russia — one on
December 25 for most of the Christian faiths and then one on January 7 for the Russian Orthodox church which
chooses to use a different calendar — the government chose to light the tree on this neutral day between the
holidays. On New Year’s day, the Yeltsin government put on several entertainment shows about Santa Claus and different musical dances.
The big guy with a beard in a blue suit seemed to be Santa. Besides the dancing grandmothers, the military
guards protecting the tree, and the freezing weather, we saw some interesting things around the tree.

The first was New Year’s Eve on the square. About five minutes to midnight we ran out to Red Square.
An air of excitement arose from the historical site and the enormous amounts of alcohol the Russians were drinking. As
the Kremlin Clock Tower rang out its twelve gongs, fireworks, champagne, and shouts exploded from the crowd. At one end
of the square was an array of red flags with the hammer and sickle. The old Communists were having a
demonstration as well as trying to keep Lenin’s tomb.safe. All of a sudden a large crowd carrying the red, white,
and blue flags of the new Nationalists party which supports Yeltsin came running in. One nationalist was wearing nothing but
shorts and downing vodka, and it was at least 20-30 below. Our Russian hosts, afraid a fight might break out,
began ushering us away from the action. As we left, the crowd was gathering around the Christmas Tree, although the
tradition in the past has been to spend New Year’s Eve in front of Lenin’s tomb. Deneen said, “I hope
we are starting a new tradition.”

The second major event was the Start II treaty talks between President Bush and President Yeltsin on January 2, 1993.
The Christmas Tree is right at the entrance where Bush drove into the Kremlin. Our tour of the Kremlin was
canceled because of this meeting. As Bush and Yeltsin were talking in the Kremlin, maybe they looked out the window
and realized that the past decade has improved Russian and American relations more than could have been dreamed - even
to the point of having a Christmas Tree next to Lenin’s tomb.

The second half of our trip was in Kiev, Ukraine. The state of affairs of this republic is just about
identical to all the others. Here we toured and saw the sights. Deneen Alexandrov is a celebrity here, so we
got first-class treatment. One adventure for us was going to a Ukrainian Opera for the equivalent of five cents and
then having eleven cokes and three pastries for about sixty-five cents. This cultural experience was one I would never have
missed. The large central square in Kiev is called Independence Square and even had its own Christmas Tree. Across from
this tree was a place where one year ago Lenin’s Statue stood. Now there is a stage set up with
a large picture of Mary and Baby Jesus right where Lenin’s statue had been. Our fifteen-year-old interpreter told us, “I
only hope the people of Kiev will replace Lenin with Jesus Christ in all areas.”

Mikhail, the interpreter, told us he had arranged the schedule so that Pastor Watson would be able to speak at
a new church he attended. It was so new it did not even have a name. That night in a
large classroom of an office building, 200 people had gathered. There was no heat and their hymnals were hand-made copies.
Soon there were 300 people packed in the room. The Pastor asked me to open the sermon with testimony and
scripture. In five minutes I prepared my small sermon which Mikhail translated. Speaking through an interpreter is not at all
easy, especially if you try to keep your thoughts on track. I told of my experience with Christ and how
he helped me on the football field. I am not sure if they understood everything, but they laughed either with
me or at me and several kids smiled. After Pastor Watson spoke, each child from the age of four to
fourteen recited Christmas poems. It was an amazing evening.

Moscow and Kiev are poverty-stricken cities in foreign lands, but I loved every minute of the special magic of their
people and culture. Whether this trip was a missions trip or a tourist vacation, we will never forget the people
and the smiles of the children whose lives we were able to touch. A lot is needed over there from
basic necessities to a trustworthy religion. Their spirits are still up, however, and they definitely raised mine.

Stapleton Program Offers Service Opportunities in Urban Charlotte
By Grey Timberlake

Thinking about plans for this summer? The Stapleton/Davidson Urban Service Internship provides a great opportunity for four Davidson students to
spend ten weeks of the summer doing Christian service in inner-city Charlotte. Each intern would receive a $2500 stipend, supported
by the Stapleton/Davidson endowment. Housing is provided by members of Charlotte’s First Presbyterian Church and Covenant Presbyterian Church.

Last summer’s interns, Kathleen Gordon, Erin McGee, Rob Hughes, and Grey Timberlake participated in a variety of service work, all
of which proved to be challenging, rewarding, and sometimes frustrating. Gordon served as an intern at the Children’s Law Center,
an agency which provides legal representation and advocacy for children involved in the Juvenile Court System. McGee worked with families
through the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Housing Partnership, an agency which seeks to provide affordable and well-maintained housing to low-income families. Hughes worked
with children and adolescents involved in family crisis at the Relatives, a youth crisis intervention center which seeks to provide
comprehensive services to young people ages 7 to 17 and their families. Timberlake served as a third-grade teacher for disadvantaged
children from one of Charlotte’s low-income housing projects at the Seigle Avenue Presbyterian Church Summer Christian Education Program. Hughes and
Timberlake also served part-time at Crisis Assistance Ministry in the financial assistance program. Interns learned much about the Charlotte social
service network by visiting many of Charlotte’s social service agencies. Interns also enjoyed getting involved in their host churches. Committees
from each church provided friendship, support, and advice for the interns. Interested students should contact Gary Steber or Linda Gurley
in the Chaplain’s Office.

See "Stapleton" on page 5

Artistically Yours
ART SUPPLIES
PAINTS * BRUSHES * CANVASES * PAPER * MARKERS * PENCILS AND MUCH MORE
FRAME SHOP
CHOOSE FROM A WIDE SELECTION OF FRAMES, MATS, GLASS, FOAM CORE
FRAME IT YOURSELF FOR EXTRA SAVINGS
TOWN SQUARE
HWY 115 CORNELIUS
892-0506
M-F: 10-6 SAT: 10-4
VISA/MASTERCARD ACCEPTED
STUDENT DISCOUNT

Reserve Your Tuxedo Early To Assure First Selection
M-F 10-6 Thurs 10-6 Sat 10-4
Townsquare Cornelius, NC 1-77/Exit 28
Tuxedo Rentals 892-9129
