As I See It

Lately, I have been very depressed about some of the articles in the opinions section. Much has been written about race relations, and I’m sad to see how bad things have gotten at Davidson. Enough has been said on this subject, so I decided to write about something else. I’m going to talk about friendship.

Pete is the first friend I can vividly remember. We lived on the campus of Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut. Pete was skilled in the art of Legos, and I was not. But that minor detail did not hurt our relationship, because I was athletic, and he was not. Pete showed me how to build cars and planes; I showed him how to throw a football and kick a soccer ball without hurting his toe. There was one thing, however, that we both did well. We both could sled.

Pete and I always took our sleds to the Dean’s house when it snowed because there was a huge hill in his backyard. In fact, to second-graders like us, it was a mountain. The only problem with our paradise was the fence made of iron and brick at its base. We were terrified of this fence. A sixth-grader once told us that a boy had got his head stuck in between the iron bars. He said that the police could not remove the boy’s head, so they left him there until he died and rotted away. Pete and I always rode on the same sled. We flew down, and as we saw the fence, we screamed in fear. We tried to wait until the last moment before we jumped off. The plastic sled crashed against the fence, we laughed, and waited to go up again.

When I moved to Mississippi, I made a new friend named Bobby. Bobby and I appeared to be identical because we both loved sports. We played every sport imaginable. We shot baskets, hit tennis balls, and threw the football together. Bobby played three varsity sports at our high school, and I played two. Bobby and I disagreed on only one thing: our favorite college teams, which just happened to be arch-rivals. I loved Ole Miss, and he loved Mississippi State. We went to all of the football and baseball games in which they played each other. He wore maroon and white for Mississippi State. I wore red and blue to show my support for Ole Miss. We sat together, and he yelled for the Bulldogs, while I screamed for the Rebels.

Now I am going to school at Davidson College. My best friend’s name is Charlie. Charlie and I have many things in common, but basketball is what brought us together. We went and played basketball every day my freshman year, and those games helped build a friendship that continues today.

I have to admit something to you. I have been lying to you. The guy from Connecticut is not named Pete. His name is Sang Huyp, and he is Korean. And the guy from Mississippi, he is not a guy at all. Bobby is a girl, and her name is Courtney. My friend at Davidson...

Gull's Nest

By Bill Gullan

Many of my fellow columnists have been recently giving tedious advice to freshpeople concerning all facets of Davidson life. Some of it is useless, some relatively worthwhile, and, alas, some is completely incorrect. However, I’ve put my cigarettes out and am ready to advise the entire community on what to do when Backstreet is carding too hard: see a movie! Movies are fun, relatively inexpensive, and your neighbors and friends might have some in their rooms. I have a bunch if anyone is bored one night. Here are my favorite films, all of which one should definitely see.

1. "Free (slick) Willie": This is the story of a crooked and pathetic US President held hostage by special interests and his wife.
2. "Say Anything": A documentary about the production of Raf and Travis’s column.
3. "Much Ado About Nothing": This is a somewhat boring film about the endless discussions that ensue at an SGA meeting.
4. "The Money Pit": This is a documentary about the making of our new Arts Center.
5. "Frat Boys in Paradise": Champagne Party ... ‘nuff said.
6. "Saturday Night Fever": A regular guy develops a mysterious affliction when he is asked by a cosmetically challenged girl to a date function.
7. "Fried Green Tomatoes": A horror movie about lunchtime at the Commons.
8. "Strange Brew": A confusing film about attempts by the Administration to implement a clear and unambiguous alcohol policy.
9. "Strange Brew II": An action-packed sequel in which the alcohol policy is dramatically overhauled and students are permitted to bring two beers up instead of one. Coming soon, hopefully, Strange Brew III.
10. "Major League III": A predictable story about a team and their legions of bandwagon fans reacting to a third straight World Series loss.
11. "The Lawnmower Man": A horror film about an irresponsible Physical Plant worker who goes crazy and leaves grass clippings all over the court.
12. "Dr. Who?": A foreign film, starring Kuzmanovich, Toumazou, Serebrennikov, and other faculty members.
13. "Planes, Trains, and Automobiles": A film about three Davidson students rushing home for Christmas this year.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The first one makes it in time. 

14. "The Incredible Journey": An epic that follows an undaunted sophomore on his trek from down the hill to class.

15. "Three Men and a Baby": A film starring Chris Frampton and three other actors.

16. "Summer School": A charming story of three frat boys who finish pledging and start planning their summer vacations.

17. "Risky Business": A propaganda piece advocating enormous expenditures on extra lighting and emergency phones for people walking around campus after dark. NOT based on a true story.

18. "The Distinguished Gentleman": A tribute to Dean Terry.

So folks, come join us and the guys across the hall. We’ll throw in a flick, pop some corn, and suck down a few Co-Colas.

---

His name is not Charlie. His real name is DeVane, and he is black. I have been lying to you for a reason. I hope you thought that all the friends I have been talking about are just like me. I hope you visualized them as white males. I have been lying to you to prove my point. Prerequisites for friendship should not exist. Friendship knows no nationality, no gender, and no race.

Sang Huyp spoke very little English, but our common interests gave us a bond that neither the English nor the Korean language could ever express. We still played the same games as other kids, but we let our actions, not our words, create the fun we had.

Yes, Courtney was a girl, but she crushed all the stereotypes about women. She did play three varsity sports. She did shoot baskets, hit tennis balls, and throw the football with me. Our friendship did not know that Courtney was a girl.

Last, I see something in DeVane that goes much deeper than his skin. I can go to him with my problems, and he can come to me with his. The good times will be just as good, and the bad times will be just as bad as if he happened to be white. Common interests, not common features, make friendships. That is my definition of friendship, and that is what friendship should always be.

---

By Nathan Seay

This summer, I got an opportunity to do something that very few people have done in recent years. I saw "Star Wars" on a big screen. I got there at eight o’clock on a Saturday morning (two hours before the movie started), and I was probably the four hundredth person in line. I’m not kidding. (Granted, the guys who stood in line behind me talked constantly about how cool it was to camp outside the theater the night before "Batman" opened. I was in my element.)

But my point is this: I’m getting old.

“How in the heck did you arrive at that conclusion?” you dirty-rotten liars who never-ever saw "Star Wars" ask. Well, let me explain. Most of the people there were my age or older. The few that were younger than I were dragged there by their parents. Let me unload this fact upon all of you: This year’s freshman class was one year old the day that "Star Wars" was released. Yes, that’s right. If you go up to a freshman and ask this person (PC journalism) if they remember seeing the movie of movies, they will answer “no.” Well, they should say “no.” If they don’t, kick them in the kneecaps. They’re a filthy, rotten liar and they deserve to be put in a great deal of pain.

Another thought came quickly: those same freshpeople were four years old when "Empire" came out. I was older when I saw the first one than when they saw the sequel. I think that’s why I can’t always relate to people younger than I am. Waiting for each movie in the trilogy helped define who I am. You cannot imagine how painful it is for a kid to wait for three long years to find out what happens to Han Solo or if Darth Vader really is Luke’s father. This cliffhanger was dumped on my lap when I was eight. Three years is over one third of your life at eight years.

I feel haughty when I’m around these people who have only experienced "Star Wars" on video cassette. They only have to take the time to change cassettes to find out all the answers. It is impossible for anyone to gain the patience and fortitude I (and the rest of the twenty-one-year-olds of the world) gained from age five through eleven.

Am I that old? Is there anyone else out there who doesn’t think that “Mr. Roboto” is a bad Japanese movie? Is A Flock of Seagulls within the span of anyone else’s memory? How can I explain to anyone just how exciting it was to see "Spacehunter: Adventures in the Forbidden Zone?" (It was a 3-D movie, you see.) I’m not sure if anyone ever roller skates anymore, but I know that it sure was hip in the early 80’s (anyone remember Olivia Newton-John in "Xanadu?"). I have a feeling that if I went today, they probably wouldn’t play “The Stroke” or “Superfreak.”

I wish that I could just step back in time to the age of roller skating at Hot Wheels, when girls were gross and the music was funky. Well, maybe not funky; how about synthetic? I would give anything to return to that age of innocence, when the most pressing thing on my mind was how many more summers it was until the next episode in the adventures of Luke Skywalker. If I could only spend the next three years guessing what will happen in the next part of the series.