THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 29, 1993 7

If You Build It, They Will Come: A Call For a New Union
By Alex Crumbley

It is no secret that much of the faculty and administration want to dispose of Patterson Court. They argue that the court is Davidson’s center of underage drinking, that it promotes an unhealthy separation of the sexes during lunch and dinner, and that it segregates much of the student body into fraternity or eating house cliques. Policies like the 40 percent rule for fraternities on upperclass halls and the new alcohol policy are designed in part to diminish the distractions of alcohol and parties in our lives and to promote a breadth of social interaction among Davidson students.

In many respects, the critics of Patterson Court are right. Stereotyping, cliques, and distracting parties do occur around the court, but the court is a symptom, not the cause, of such problems. People tend to find a group and stay in it. If Patterson Court were removed, personal stereotyping and cliquing would still occur, only in a less definite form. For example, limiting the number of parties on the court has not ended the problems of underage drinking. The restraints of the alcohol policy have not stopped students’ parties; it has only moved them to residence halls or off-campus houses or bars.

The answer to our problems is not to remove something but to add something. If students are going to leave the court, they must have a reason, a better place to go. They must want to leave. That is why the idea to build a new and improved student union could not have come at a better time. The Union’s purpose is evident in its name, and the one we have now simply does not do the task. It is away from the residential facilities on campus; its rooms are small, its cafe under-equipped to handle many students. As of now, the Union and its 900 Room are not viable alternatives for students in search of a social life at Davidson.

If built right, the new union could add eating facilities to campus, encouraging house members to eat lunch together at a central location. It could house a student-run radio station which could give students more of a feeling of togetherness and identity. It could have a bigger place for campus functions and campus-wide parties. It could have gathering places much more attractive than “the pit” which is presently our cool hang-out location. The possibilities are endless, as are the improvements which could be made to student life through building this new union.

As for professors who think our money could be better spent, I encourage you to look at the long-term benefits of building a new union. If we could make it fashionable to go to the union, Patterson Court activity would decrease and people would begin to break through many barriers ingrained in our community as it is now. Better places to congregate would allow a more diverse and open exchange of ideas to take place at a dinner table or in a study lounge. If we have something to do besides drinking on Patterson Court, we may become better students all around.

The idea of the women’s houses eating together in the Commons for lunch is good. Unfortunately, though many men also like the idea, it will take a long time for the fraternities to follow the women’s lead. But abolition of the fraternities is not the answer, and neither is forcing them to eat in the Commons. If you give us a reason to venture out of our houses, we will. If you build a new union with some good restaurants and recreational facilities in it, we will eat there and come together. Until then, don’t blame us for staying home.

Courses continued from page 5

vidual students, unavoidable administrative work (grading, syllabus planning, library book ordering, writing recommendations, staff, department & committee meetings, etc.), and the basic work from which good teaching springs - preparation, study, keeping current in one’s field, research, and professional renewal - is essential to maintaining the zest for teaching which makes the classroom experience here special.

If a small percentage of courses is dropped to achieve balance, the loss is compensated many times over by the gain. The hallmark of a good education is quality, not quantity. The number of different courses a student takes is less important than the educational experience within each course. Thoughtful educators worry that the “cafeteria” of highly-specialized courses has already been developed too far. The final step toward institutional excellence will now be to cultivate a campus atmosphere conducive to reading, study and reflection, an atmosphere in which thehabits of mental discipline can be acquired.

Sincerely,
T. C. P. Zimmerman
Charles A. Dana Professor of History

Students Should Be Involved in Changes

Canu continued from page 5

The trend to put less emphasis on classroom teaching as opposed to research is paradoxical given our commitment to the liberal arts. The Davidson College statement of purpose reads: "In implementing its purpose to promote higher learning, Davidson has chosen to be a college, to maintain itself as a small community of learners, to emphasize the teaching responsibility of all professors, and to ensure the opportunity for personal relationships between students and teachers.

"It is vital that all students, freshmen as well as upperclassmen, know and study under mature and scholarly teachers who are able and eager to provide for each of them stimulus, instruction, and guidance. ...In the selection of teachers it must seek individuals of genuine spirituality who are outstanding intellectually, who have the best training available in their fields of study, and whose interest in the students and in teaching is unfeigned and profound."

We perceive that this most recent policy change is not in keeping with our college’s purpose. Davidson is not a state university, and it was not meant to be. The diminished course selection that will surely result from this move will provide less of an opportunity for development of “persons of humane instincts, of discipline and creative minds, ... of service, and of self-fulfillment.” We have chosen Davidson for our undergraduate studies for many reasons, none of which includes less course breadth or a restrictive faculty and administration.

In attending Davidson, we expect to have personal and productive relationships with all school officials. Instead, present animosity between students and faculty mars this ideal. It is time for the administration to approach the students in order to preserve the qualities of Davidson that we cherish before overdevelopment. An open forum with observable results based on student input is especially important regarding changes in college policy directly affecting our academic and personal futures.

The college exists for the students, not to create career opportunities for the faculty and administration. It is the responsibility of the school to include the students in important decisions and to respect and act upon their opinions. We can only be open for so long.

Sincerely,
Will Canu & Dave White

Pithy Irreverence ... Sean Lind

Sand Castles at the Beach

I have a need to go to the beach every so often. There’s something very refreshing and renewing about the ocean. I have always loved the beach. When I was six, my family went to Myrtle Beach in South Carolina for summer vacation. It’s the first time I can remember being at the beach. I was amazed. It was the most water I had ever seen in any one place before. My favorite pastimes then were running as fast as my little legs could carry me into the oncoming surf until I tripped on a wave and went splashing to the ground, and building sand castles.

It was my father who introduced me to the concept of building sand castles. His, as I remember, was very precise and symmetrical; he used those little prefab buckets, a spade, and a level. I was fascinated by the whole idea - maybe because of the romantic aspect of castles, or because it brought out the budding civil engineer in me, who knows? My plans were monumental. I undertook construction, determined to make something Guinness (The Book of Records, not the beer) would have to recognize. I made numerous inner courtyards, parapets, bridges, watch towers, moats. You name it - this castle had it. (Except for indoor plumbing. I figured, hey, the knights could go while they were taking a swim, just like me.)

I accepted no help on the project. My little sister tried to assist, but I swatted her away with a play shovel and threw sand at her, causing my mother to yell “Play nice with your sister” and give me the obligatory slap on the butt. Once I had completed all the living quarters, I started work on the important parts - the outer walls and fortifications. I decided three walls would do the trick. I dug and piled and dug and packed. Although the eastern walls would have to be the thickest and most fortified, I decided that the walls should also extend around the entire castle, on the off-chance that some wave might try a sneak attack from behind.

My project had taken on such proportions that parents and their children walking down the beach would stop to admire the work and effort and castle of this sweating, tan, sand-covered little child. Yes, as a matter of fact, I have always been obsessive. The sun began to fall, and my mother was calling me to dinner as I put the final touches on the outermost wall. As a finishing touch, I placed two Playmobil knights on the towers in the inner courtyard to watch over the castle while I was away for the night.

I woke the next morning and went to see how my castle had fared the night. I walked out to the beach, and felt rather disoriented. There was no castle. I looked back up to the beach house to make sure that it was, in fact, our house. Yep. OK, maybe I built the castle either up- or down-beach. A thorough combing of the area, however, revealed no castle. Where had it gone?, my little mind ranged. I was very upset. I didn’t ask my parents who had taken the castle, however, for fear of punishment for the lost Playmobil guys (who, I realize now, were on their way to Morocco.)

Last week during spring break, I built another castle. This one was smaller, more symmetrical, and more cynical. Connected beer tabs served as drawbridge chains. Liquor and cigarette labels adorned the watch towers and bastions. And sure enough, when I awoke the next morning, this castle too was gone. There’s a difference, though: when I was six, I built the castle with the intent that it should stand there forever. This one I built so that it could be washed away. I walked on the beach for a while, looking around, just to make sure the castle was gone. It was. I reached down and picked up a handful of sand and watched it run through my fingers and blow away in the wind, and hoped that someday I would come back to the beach, and build another sand castle.