THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1993

Save the world and buy a gift at the Alternative Gift Market

By Letitia Campbell

Ahhh ... Christmas. A bountiful time of food, family, brightly decorated trees with presents piled around them, warm cider, cookies, and water buffalos. “Water Buffalos???” you ask. Yes, this year, you can celebrate Christmas by purchasing a water buffalo to be sent to East India by Outreach, an international human development agency. The water buffalo will provide milk, butter, and cheese for a village and for market. The profit from the sale of the dairy products would fund bicycles for people needing transportation. And if water buffalo aren’t your thing, then maybe an acre or two of rainforest, a wheelbarrow, or an eye operation would interest you.

The Chaplain’s Office, the Chapel Committee, and a variety of other student organizations, including Patterson Court Houses and religious groups, are sponsoring an Alternative Gift Market with the theme “Give the World a Christmas Present.” The Market will be open between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. on Sunday, December 12 in the TV Lounge of the Student Union (during the Community Christmas Party). The market will allow students to Christmas shop (since exams don’t end until the 23rd) and it gives all the members of the community a chance to celebrate Christmas in a unique way.

What can you buy? Chickens and water buffalo, antibiotics and eye surgery, water wells and acres of rainforest, foodstuffs for hungry people and shelter for the homeless in the United States. Started in 1980 in Pasadena, California, Alternative Gift Markets now extend across the United States. Hundreds of churches, organizations, and schools will hold markets this year. Harriet C. Prichard, founder and president of Alternative Gift Markets, Inc., believes that the markets “offer shoppers the opportunity to preserve our endangered planet as well as help hungry, sick, and homeless people—the world around—help themselves. Instead of shopping for presents friends and family here may not really need or even want, we can give gifts of hope and new life to a needy world.”

When individuals purchase gifts, they receive Christmas cards naming their gifts, ready to mail or deliver as holiday gifts. Donors, card recipients, and hungry-homeless people all receive joy at Christmas, a turn-around from the usual materialistic holiday celebration. Simple gifts, like clean water and antibiotics, mean survival for many people. Gifts like a bus ride for a Sioux student or a shovel for...

Family troubles may haunt the holidays

By Mandy Curtis

Christmas trees, gifts, lights, cookies and carols, peace and joy, friends and family—these are the images that come to mind when one thinks about going home for the holidays. However, for many students, a happy homecoming is just an image, far from the reality of dealing with the family. According to Dr. DeWitt Crosby of the counseling service, many students go home to face family members with alcoholism, mental illness or serious depression, parents with marital difficulties, conflicts with siblings or families under economic strain. Others have to deal with subtle problems such as parents who are overly intrusive or demanding.

Often Davidson students feel responsible for solving the problems at home. Crosby states that students put too much pressure on themselves thinking they need to change a situation or work to keep things the way they were. “Students feel like they can change things and it’s frustrating when they can’t,” she says. It is inevitable with the nature of the holiday season that people get stressed out, particularly with family. Everyone has a picture of what Christmas should be, the Norman Rockwell version; however, it is the rare occasion when the ideal is the reality. According to Crosby, this is what “raises the disappointment level.”

"Everyone has a picture of what Christmas should be, the Norman Rockwell version; however it is a rare occasion when the ideal is the reality."

Families are always trying to do too much during the Christmas break, says Crosby. This can also be a source of stress for those students who just want to go home and relax after a semester of work. Besides the fact that it is Christmas, students are home for a whole month when they’ve been away for so long. This transition is very difficult for students as well as for parents who are not used to living in the same house again. Crosby argues that a month is too long for students to be home, and suggests everyone make alternative plans for at least a portion of the break.

There are different ways college students deal with the problems in the home. Two likely approaches are what Crosby calls the “ostrich” approach and the active approach. Those who act like nothing is going on are taking the “ostrich” approach; basically they deny and ignore. Students who get involved in the situation and try to make changes are playing an active role but are often discouraged when things do not work out. In addition to making other plans, students need to communicate with their parents and other family members. They don’t need to try to change things but talking about what is going on is the healthiest approach. Crosby added that “keeping expectations at a reasonable level is important.”

"It’s also a good idea to talk to a third party about problems at home before leaving for the break," says Crosby. A friend, professor or counselor can give “clarity or validation.”

Careers Office teaches non...

By Scott Windham

One of the most familiar faces to seniors who sign up for on-campus interviews, information sessions, and off-campus events...such as Banking Day is that of SHEREE MONT D.J. SERVICE ~ \ ioogdcoa|elt gn OOOOOOOOOS | Charlotte's Most Popular Female Mobile D.J. (704) 563-7914 Margaret Goode. Goode, Davidson class of '83, is the coordinator of career services at the Office of Career Services. She joined the staff at the beginning of this year after working temporarily with Residence Life and the International Student Advisor’s Office. The role of coordinator is one of the most important at Career Services, reports director Carol Jordan. The coordinator serves as a link between students and recruiters from corporations, non-profit enterprises, graduate schools, and recruitment agencies. In addition to scheduling interviews, arranging for information sessions, and attending most events sponsored by Career Services, Goode creates profiles of the firms and institutions which send representatives to campus. The profiles are held by the Office of Career Services with the Mentor Program notebook. Call -2132 profit management for more information. With the increase in importance and complexity of both non-profit careers and management skills, a one to five year program in non-profit management is now being offered on area campuses. Students may elect to take the fifty-hour, eight-course program in one year, or spread the courses out over five years. The brochure states that the student “will develop a personalized program of study drawn from a curriculum of approximately fifty-five classes.” Courses are offered at Duke University and in the cities of Greensboro, High Point, and Winston-Salem; students may take classes at either or both locations. A complete catalog is available for reading from Career Services; a catalog of classes at the Duke campus may be obtained by calling Marilyn Hartman, director, at (919) 684-3255. WIRE a laborer in Burkina Faso enable poor people to gain self-dignity. Also, these gifts wondrously multiply. For example, one chicken lays 240 eggs every year, and Guatemalan families that receive fruit trees to help with reforestation pledge to pass on seedlings to other families. The alternative gifts are possibly life-giving and earth-shattering. What more authentic action could you possibly take than sending one in honor of your family or a friend? Join the Alternative Gift Market in the challenge to celebrate Christmas in a new way, and put your arms around the Earth, a pretty small planet. College, high school celebrate union MIDDLEBURY, Vt. (CPS) - Middlebury College of Vermont and DeWitt Clinton High School of New York City celebrated a six-year partnership in November that has been based on an exchange of students and faculty to fulfill needs at both institutions. On November 15, a dozen Middlebury faculty, staff, and students went to New York to spend a day teaching, lecturing, and conducting workshops as they discussed other opportunities for exchanges between the two institutions. In the past, students from the Bronx high school have had the opportunity to visit Middlebury College and attend classes when they are considering attending college. Some DeWitt Clinton students have been included in such prestigious programs as the Bread Loaf New England Young Writers’ Conference. Students in mining competition ROLLA, Mo. (CPS) - Six mining engineering students at the University of Missouri competed in a mine rescue competition in October, campus officials said recently. A mine rescue was simulated in the university’s experimental mine, in which five workers had to be rescued from a poorly ventilated mine. Ron Robison, supervisor of the experimental mine on campus, said the competition was tough. The students competed with six other professional teams, some teams consisting of former students of the university’s mining engineering program. He said this was one of the main reasons for the last place finish. “You just don’t beat those professional teams,” Robison said, adding that students will begin training in December for a spring competition. Increase in hiring projected BETHLEHEM, Pa. (CPS) - Although companies are doing less recruiting on college campuses this academic year, many employers are anticipating a better year than last year, the College Placement Council said. According to the council’s Job Outlook '94 report, 57 percent of the 245 employers responding in a survey plan to hire more college graduates for the 1993-94 recruiting season than they did last year. They project hiring 5.9 percent more graduates in 1993-94 than they actually hired in 1992-93. Many firms, however, do not plan on active recruiting on campus, according to the survey. Responding employers plan to visit 7.4 percent fewer campuses in the 1993-94 recruiting season than they did last year. Last year was described in the survey as a “buyer’s market” for employers, and that low inflation, coupled with a tight job market, kept increases in starting salaries low. Only 37 percent of non-profit organizations and government offices plan to increase hiring, while 57 percent of service employees plan to hire. MBAs help women break glass ceiling DAYTON, Oh. (CPS) - Women who want to break through the glass ceiling into top management jobs might consider earning a master’s in business administration. Researchers at the University of Dayton and Pepperdine University in Malibu, California studied women in management positions at Fortune 500 companies and found that women who hold MBA degrees are entering corporate top management jobs quicker and in larger numbers than similarly prepared men. According to Rebecca Yates, associate dean of the University of Dayton’s School of Business Administration and co-author of the study, the findings debunk recent studies that indicate women are blocked in their career paths by “an invisible glass ceiling.” The researchers’ study found that 25 years after receiving MBAs, women held nearly three times as many top management positions as their male counterparts.