THE DAVIDSONIAN _ ARTS MONDAY, APRIL 19, 1993 9

Whistlin' Dixie . . . Matt Bumstead

Bumstead Retires and Brings on The End of a Country Era

For two years now, I’ve had to endure countless verbal attacks, hearing peers tell me how stupid this column is,
or how--no matter what I say--country still “stinks” (or some word to that effect). For all of you out there
who, despite my pleadings, still cannot give country music a fair shake, I have only one thing left to say.
Here’s a quarter, call someone who cares. (That’s country for “see ya--wouldn’t wanna be ya.”)

Now, for this week’s column, which is dedicated solely to the faithful, to those who have followed country music--and especially
to those who have followed this column. I have struggled for two weeks trying to decide what I should say
in this my last installment of WD. It seems that everything I could possibly say I have already said over
the past two years: why you should like country artists and songs, what are the best songs and albums, who
are the best artists. We played trivia, we reviewed the big releases, examined the music business itself, and just chewed
the fat. What pearls of wisdom could remain?

None. But what the heck, let’s do one for the road, okay?

Matt's Whistlin' Dixie Pearls of Wisdom:
- Garth Brooks has two choices--return to his roots and give us a good, solid country album (and stay on
top of the music world for another year), or continue experimenting and begin his backslide. Actually, he has a third
choice... quit and live like a king anyway.
- Billy Ray Cyrus will not last. He cannot do so without talent. A great song, dance, video, and marketing
scheme put him where he doesn’t belong. The only thing that can save his career (at any respectable level) is
the marketing team at Mercury. And if they did it before, they can fool people again.
- Reba McEntire is nearing 40. Wynonna Judd isn’t even thirty yet. Get it? A changing of the guard is
approaching inevitability. Wynonna isn’t Reba, don’t get me wrong; nobody can stand toe to toe with Reba as a performer.
But Pam Tillis, Trisha Yearwood, Wynonna, and Mary-Chapin (along with any big newcomer) stand waiting to move up. I put
my money on Wynonna, with Chapin, whose shrewd writing ability keeps her in striking distance, right behind her.

"The tight edge between sport and self"

Girl continued from page 8

Horses, in the middle of a four-count reverse stand, facing backwards, my feet firmly planted on his shiny back, my
arms stretched far to my sides, my face triumphant, I am a vision of balance, of girlish confidence and cooperation
with the horse. Though I lost that balance moments later, falling to the ground and losing all chances for a
ribbon, in that snapshot I see in my eyes everything I knew and was learning.

I knew I couldn’t vault forever. Standing at the side of the ring after dismounting, panting, I knew that it
was the last time I would grip the handles of the surcingle that had held me safely on the back
of so many horses for so many years. Horses are tall, and constant falling from them breeds chronic injuries. Growing
so fast without getting fat stops a girl’s body from becoming a woman’s, but it doesn’t stop any of the
pain from stretched tendons and pulled ligaments. We knew we weren’t really in Never Never Land, so we competed fiercely,
never guessing when our next injury would be the one to stop us for good. Even if we survived our
last season intact, high school graduation would mark the end of all but the very best vaulters’ careers. I was
never one of the very best.

When a girl dismounts for the last time, bringing her body down gently into the soft footing of the ring,
she leaves the horse behind, leaves a community of fierceness to the younger, more flexible girls. But she never leaves
behind the balance, the love of her teammates, of her horse, of her talent. She never forgets how hard she
fought to make her body behave. She feels the beat of a steady canter in her mind for life. Waltzing
comes naturally.

My body carries the marks of devotion, like a lover’s rubbings up and down my spine. Three tiny holes in
my left leg remind me of the surgery to remove the accumulation of scar tissue from beneath my kneecap. The
dents are dear to me, reminders. My crooked fingers and achy foot, painful in the damp air of my new
home in North Carolina, trace the outline of each fractured bone across my imagination every time it rains. I look
in the mirror and do not recognize the curves of my profile, my hair impractically long. This body is not
so comfortable as the other, but it is the natural result of growing up. I have fat on my belly,
an inny for the first time. I have time to fall in love, a boyfriend for the first time. I
could get pregnant if I wanted and have enough weight on my frame to carry the baby to term. My
distribution is different. If I can no longer swing myself, right toe pointed to the heavens, vertically split, onto a
speeding animal, II can remember the joy, feel still the demon spirit that kept me in competition. My exasperation at
the relative uselessness of my maturing body is assuaged only by the enduring stubbornness of a vaulting education. Years of
repetition of every compulsory exercise—riding seat, flag, mill, scissors, stand, full flank—taught me always to practice, never to give up.
So I dig in my teeth and shake hard. I fight. Memories of high-flying exultation and endless hours of mucking
out winter paddocks save me from frustration. It has been four and a half years since I last donned my
uniform and stepped into the center of the arena, but I’ll always remember the simplicity of line, the beauty of
music and horse and human moving together in a dance against time. And the tender envy I felt for the
better girls with the tighter muscles. I’ll carry the ferocity, the cruelty of team politics, the absolute cooperation with other
vaulters on the horse safe in my childhood. And walk into my adulthood with the knowledge of the tight edge
we negotiate between sport and self. Carlson won the 1993 Charles E. Lloyd Writing Award for “horse-flying.”

ALL STEREO SOUND
Cop and a Half (PG) 3:05, 5:05, 7:05, 9:05
Point of No Return (R) 3:10, 5:20, 7:25, 9:30
Huck Finn (PG) 3:05, 5:10, 7:20, 9:30
Indecent Proposal (R) 3:25, 7:00, 9:25

EASTERN FEDERAL THEATRES
$3.75 ALL SHOWS BEGINNING BEFORE 6PM
MOVIES at THE LAKE
I-77 EXIT 28 CORNELIUS 892-3841
Born Yesterday (PG) 3:10, 5:15, 7:20, 9:25
The Judas Project (PG13) 3:10, 5:10, 7:10, 9:10
The Crush (R) 3:15, 5:15, 7:15, 9:15
Ninja Turtles III (PG) 3:10, 5:10, 7:15, 9:15
SHOW TIMES FOR TODAY ONLY!

"Lovely" Lorrie Morgan is developing a habit that isn’t so lovely—husband swapping: She’s divorcing #3, Clint Black’s former bus driver.
No, she didn’t divorce Keith Whitley; he died. But, well, who’s to say what would have happened when her career
started rolling (which is exactly what happened after he died). You know, she and Billy Ray might make a nice
couple...(o.k., that was cheap. I admit it.)

-Kix Brooks will go solo? Tough call, but he will probably get greedy and do it. Ronnie Dunn is pretty
harmless, and they’re raking in the bucks as a team. If Brooks dumps Dunn, we will have heard the last
of Dunn, but Brooks may not be far behind him. He won’t be as exciting as a one-man show.

-Country music’s inevitable decline? Wait one more year, then it’s gotta lose ground. Without Garth or someone as strong (and
there is no one with that kind of selling power anywhere) to lead the way, country music will not have
the unifying point around which to rally. Take Diana Ross...

See Matt on page 10

"KP" Duty is Delicious
KP continued from page 8

hair pasta. My companion found this dish to be quite delectable. We also sampled the spit-roasted chicken. KP’s bastes their
chicken and fills it with spices, and the flavors were carefully sealed in by being roasted in a rotisserie. It
was very moist and delicately seasoned. KP’s menu also includes an assortment of specialty pizzas. They are quite unlike any
to be found in the area, and the customer can choose from a wide variety of toppings. The crusts are
thin honey-wheat dough, and the pizzas we sampled were light yet extremely satisfying. We tried the fresh tomato and basil
pizza and the four cheese pizza. The tomato and basil pizza was covered with juicy plum tomatoes, garlic, red pepper,
basil, and mozzarella cheese. My personal favorite, however, was the four cheese pizza, which included fresh mozzarella, fontina, emmenthaler, grana
parmesan, and crushed red pepper. I can’t say enough about how refreshing it was to try these unique pizzas. I
would highly recommend them for the college student budget as well. Other pizza options include spit-roasted chicken pizza, deep dish
artichoke, cheese & bacon pizza, and more traditional pizzas for those less daring.

Dessert selections at KP’s change daily. We tried the tiramisu and the mud pie. The tiramisu was made with creme
de cacao and Kahlua and nearly melted in my mouth. It was light, sweet, and airy, a perfect way to
end the delicious meal. The mud pie was wonderful as well, rich and full of chocolate. Other desserts, such as
the key lime pie or KP's special cheesecakes, are just as good. KP’s is the ideal place to go with
your parents, for date functions, or just with friends. The upscale decor is comfortable and makes one feel welcome in
casual dress. While the atmosphere is relaxed, the food is of the highest caliber. KP’s successfully combines comfort with superior
food quality, a difficult thing to do. Every item we sampled was amazing. The menu has a great deal of
variety with something to please everyone. Veal, seafood, vegetables, pizza, pork, pasta, and poultry all testify to the restaurant’s diversity.
There is a separate menu for lunch and a Sunday brunch menu which includes items such as eggs benedict and
quiche. There will even be live entertainment on designated evenings. KP's also offers catering for any type of function—such as
rehearsal dinners, wedding receptions, or corporate affairs. The food is of the mid-price range, and worth every dollar. I see
myself frequenting KP's for the affordable pizza. No other restaurant in this area is quite like this one. I recommend
it highly and guarantee customer satisfaction.

LAKE NORMAN’S NEWEST FULL SERVICE RESTAURANT & BAR
OPEN FOR LUNCH, DINNER, LATE NIGHT
BEFORE OR AFTER THE MOVIE
7 DAYS A WEEK
