16 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1993

Women's Cross Country competes in NCAA's Region II race
By Jean DeMoss

596 lean, fast legs belonging to 298 runners, representing 40 women’s cross-country teams congregated at Furman University for the Region Meet on Saturday, November 13th. The biggest region meet ever to be held at Furman, teams traveled from as far as Florida, Alabama, and Virginia to represent their schools. The starting line sprawled across the Furman golf course. At 11 a.m., the starting command was issued and the gun went off. Runners sprinted out of their boxes, the top teams competing for bids to the national meet. Crowded and congested, the pack of runners battled valiantly throughout the race. The first mile passed by quickly, the first runner, a freshman from Univ. of Alabama, went through the mile at 5:05. Davidson runners held their own over the 3.1-mile course. Weather conditions and team encouragement persuaded the harriers to run fast. And the Davidson women needed little motivation to run fast because this was the last race of the season. After looping around several holes of the golf course for over two miles and running up and down hills for the last half mile, Carolyn Meadows crossed the finish line in (20:08), a personal best for the season. She was followed by Katie McKelvie (20:19) who also ran her fastest time ever in cross-country. Both girls had to keep the crowds away for autographs. Marie Grisez finished third for the team (20:25). Stephanie Moses (20:29) and Erin Roach (20:35) finished right behind Grisez. Jean DeMoss and Alicia Dandar rounded out the Davidson field. A young team, with much to look for in the future, Davidson harriers put in a valiant team effort for the last race. The harriers’ spikes will be in the locker room for another week of active rest, then the runners plunge into the track season. Each member of the team looks forward to the challenge.

Wildcats field professional baseball, basketball, soccer players

Pros continued from page 14

catcher for the Chicago Cubs. In 1991, Simonds had an outstanding year, moving from AA Charlotte to AAA Iowa, earning an invite to spring training in 1992. After earning the bullpen spot, he has kept that position for the past two years and looks to receive playing time during the ’94 season.

BASKETBALL
*Detlef Musch (’93) was quickly picked up by a professional German team and returned to his home in August to begin competition. The 7-foot standout plays for Bayer Leverkusen. In Germany, teams are represented by companies and Bayer Aspirin carries a large amount of business in the country. The teams are fully sponsored and supported by the companies. Leverkusen has consistently been the best team in Germany the past few years. After the season, there is a post-season tournament to determine the German champion, which will compete in the Euro Cup Championship in May. Musch is averaging about 22 minutes of play per game. His playing time should increase since the teammate he was splitting time with just left the team. Musch is currently under a 3-year, $450,000 contract and has been invited to the tryouts for the 1996 German Olympic Team. Leverkusen stands as the best team in Germany and made it to the semifinals of the McDonald's Open which featured the NBA’s Phoenix Suns.
*Derek Rucker (’86), the former second-team All-American in 1986, that led Davidson to their last NCAA appearance, ended up “down under” competing in Australia’s NationalBasketball League for the Brisbane Bullets. In 1990, Rucker owned the league, averaging 33 points a game, while picking up every award imaginable. The hot shooter led the league in scoring, was selected to the NBL All-Star game, picking up the game’s MVP trophy, and was the unanimous MVP of the league. During the off-season, Rucker struggled through contract disputes and the frustration showed on the court in 1991. His stats dropped, along with playing time and popularity with the organization. Rumors placed Rucker somewhere in the CBA during the 1992 season and believe that he has headed back to Australia to play in the NBL.

Statistics
1990: 33.0 PPG, 3.6 Reb, 6.7 Asts, 2.6 Stls
1991: 26.6 PPG, 3.0 Reb, 5.8 Asts, 2.3 Stls

SOCCER
Rob Ukrop (’93) has found a new home in Baltimore playing for the Baltimore Spirit in the indoor National Professional Soccer League. The former All-American that led Davidson to the Final Four last year has found little trouble finding work in professional soccer. Last summer, Ukrop competed in the University Games for the South Region. Though he received limited playing time, he was extremely effective, scoring in most appearances. The Spirit leads the league with a 4-0 record. Like hockey, the indoor rules feature 2 lines of players and Ukrop starts on the second line. In the team’s first four games, he has scored a total of 4 goals. Ukrop’s skills favor the indoor league with his effective finishing and quick release. He’s living on the river, “having a good time,” and plans to return to Davidson for the Final Four as a spectator.

For the small size of Davidson with primarily non-scholarship athletics, to have eight professional athletes is impressive, especially the baseball program. If there are eight now, three of which graduated last May, Davidson College can look for more to come. There are certainly professional prospects on this year’s baseball and basketball teams in athletes such as Brett Boretti and Janko Narat.

First Round Results
Indiana 6 - Memphis State 0
Wisconsin 3 - Notre Dame 1
Loyola 1 - James Madison 0
Virginia 2 - William & Mary 1
Penn State 3 - Robert Morris 0
Princeton 2 - Columbia 0
Hartwick 2 - Rutgers 0
Boston U. 2 - St. John’s 1
San Diego 4 - UCLA 2 OT
Cal. St. Fullerton 4 - Fresno St. 0
San Francisco 2 - Santa Clara 1 OT
St. Louis 0 - Portland 0 (St. L won PK 3-2)
Air Force 2 - Creighton 1 OT
North Carolina 3 - Duke 2
Clemson 2 - UNC-Greensboro 0
South Carolina 1 - Furman 0

Second Round
Princeton 5 - Penn State 2
Air Force 2 - North Carolina 1
South Carolina 3 - Clemson 2
Indiana v. Wisconsin
Virginia v. Loyola
Hartwick v. Boston U.
Cal St. Fullerton v. San Diego
San Francisco v. St. Louis

Invite your friends and family to NCAA SOCCER CHAMPIONSHIP DECEMBER 3 & 5
Tickets to all three games
Hotel (2 nights) - breakfast and dinner
FROM $149.00 per person double occupancy
AIRLINE TICKETS AND CAR RENTALS ALSO AVAILABLE
TRAVEL NETWORK — 896-7480
South Lake Center - Between Roses’ and Harris Teeter