6 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1993

WALTER PRICE - Editor in Chief
SARAH GAYLE - Managing Editor
TOM KOONCE - Associate Editor
TOM PRICE - Assistant Editor
SEAN LIND - News Editor
ALICE FELMLEE - Ass't News Editor
LEIGH RAWDON - Ass't News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Opinions Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Ass't Opinions Editor
CHRIS HOVELAND - Davidson Arts Editor
STANCEL RILEY - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
CHRIS HOOD - Ass't Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor
ALEX DANIEL - Production Manager
LAURA DENNIS - Ass't Production Manager

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

HARRISON ROBERTS - Advertising Manager
BILL BRYAN - Ass't Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS - Business Manager
KATRICE SHULER - Circulation Manager

From The First

At an enthusiastic meeting on Wednesday night, March 18, the Davidson College Student Body voted for the establishment of a
weekly newspaper. Later, an editor and business manager were elected and a staff appointed. The present issue is the first
fruits of this action. The Davidsonian makes its initial bow.

In the inauguration of such a newspaper, many questions no doubt arise. “Why a college weekly? Does it have a
real value? What will it stand for?” The newspaper is largely what its name implies, composed of news. It should
be in close touch with every phase of College life and the life of the community about it. Even in
a small college, life becomes more and more complex; and as the students are broken up into an increasing number
of groups, there is a tendency not to look beyond the questions and matters in which one man is directly
interested. The college newspaper should give live information about every group and department of college activity, keep them acquainted with
each other, and thus promote a feeling of mutual interest and encouragement. In addition, there are the things which vitally
concern every student, and yet which are not well known or misunderstood.

But the boundaries of a college are not the limits of its campus. In close contact with it every day
is a community which is certain to influence and be influenced by the student. The town column should make every
man feel that he has friends in the town, and their interest in the college should be increased by the
weekly items and topics about it.

The old Davidson spirit which has held sway at Davidson in tradition and fact for years goes with the graduate
that leaves here... The newspaper... can increase the spirit in athletic, literary, social, and religious life here; it can be
a link between college and community, alumni and alma mater. The Davidsonian asks for your earnest cooperation.

This editorial appeared in full in the first issue of The Davidsonian on April 1, 1914.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices
are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or
commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Letters

Smith Appreciates Sculpture

To the Editor,

It is a genuine pleasure to see that the Senior Class of 1993 has decided to present a gift of
public sculpture to the Davidson campus. This timely gift fills a great need and begins to establish a long-needed tradition
of creating a kind of ballast in our visual...environment which, excepting the Chambermaids and Jacob’s Ladder in Vail Commons, has
remained strangely bereft of sculpture. The eventual installation of public sculpture will be a welcome addition to the liberal arts.
Not having sculpture in an intellectual and academic environment such as Davidson is akin to not having books in the
library. It is a double pleasure to see that this project was originated, encouraged, and supported by students who have
recognized their visual needs within the context of a tradition of benign iconoclasm. This gift and the important processes which
surround its acceptance are signs of Davidson’s coming of age. I am grateful to those students such as Chris Hoveland
whose enthusiasm and efforts have revitalized us and brought us to see ourselves and our campus in a fuller, more
intellectual, and more thoughtful way.

Sincerely,
Shaw Smith
Associate Professor of Arts and Humanities

OPINIONS

It is important to respect everyone’s background and heritage. People are truly lost if they neglect their roots and the
wisdom of their progenitors. The wonderful mosaic that is America is comprised of representatives of every race, gender, creed, and
way of life. Homogeneity is definitely undesirable. However, this positive urge for inclusiveness is being perverted under the banner of
diversity. People have been selected for cabinet positions in the new Clinton administration because they supposedly represent different blocks of
voters. Wouldn’t you find it insulting to be picked for an important post not on merit, but because the administration
needs to pacify special interest groups and follow through on campaign promises? I find it insulting, also, because, as an
American, I deserve the best possible cabinet. Why should Bill Clinton only interview women for a post that represents all
the people? Why is it impossible for a white male to transcend his own gender and race and try to
help minorities with their concerns? Does it take a woman to help make sure that the justice system is fair
to women? It is very cynical to suggest that one is only concerned with helping out one’s own kind. It
is downright criminal for someone to be judged as qualified or unqualified for a job that represents all the people
because of race or gender.

What about diversity at Davidson? The Black Student Coalition does their best to celebrate the heritage and achievements of blacks
currently and throughout history. In the curriculum, requirements have been changed to make sure that students learn about other cultures
before they graduate. That is fine as long as the required study of our own collective American (Western) culture and
history is not ignored. There are complaints that minorities are treated unfairly at Davidson. I am not qualified to answer
to that criticism, but it seems to me that people should come here to be part of our community of
individuals, not to be a statistic or a token. Why be a Davidson black student when you can just be
a Davidson student? If minority enrollment is declining it does not mean that there is anything inherently wrong with the
school. If rules have been broken in order to treat minorities unfairly that is a big problem. There is nothing
at all wrong with the present system at Davidson with regards to minorities as I see it. What happened to
Dr. Ballard’s door is inexcusable, yet that was done by an individual, not by the system. The ultimate goal of
any community is to have its members treated as individuals. Endless meetings and

See "Gullan" on page 8
