THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1993

Despite rumors, none of the Doris Duke riches will benefit Davidson

By Mary Clare Jalonick

Rumors that part of the late Doris Duke’s supposed $140 million fortune would come to Davidson have been proven false. According to the Charlotte Observer, when Doris Duke, once known as “the richest girl in the world,” died, no one knew exactly where she would leave the money. There was some speculation that Duke would leave part of the trust to Davidson College. The Duke endowment, a separate trust that totals up to $1.25 billion, has been a large benefactor to the school. The Duke endowment gives to Davidson annually along with Duke University, Furman, and Johnson C. Smith College.

When the will was filed in court Monday, however, it was revealed that she will leave the bulk of her estate to create the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation. The Duke Foundation will rival that of the Rockefellers, giving money annually to various Doris Duke organizations. The only hindrance to Doris Duke’s plan to use the money for philanthropic purposes is her adopted daughter, Charlene Gail “Chandi” Heffner, whom she disowned in 1991. Heffner, who is a former belly dancer and an avid Hare Krishna, claims that she deserves a part of the trust. Doris Duke adopted her in 1988, when Heffner was 35. In her will, Duke said, “I am convinced that I should not have adopted Chandi Heffner. I have come to the realization that her primary motive was financial gain.” Heffner, who now resides in Hawaii on a ranch that Duke bought for her, is filing suit against the trust for breach of contract.

Duke left other portions of her trust to her closest friends, long-time employees, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. She left $10 million to Duke University, and a week prior to her death she donated $1 million to the school for AIDS research. She also left $100,000 for her dog. Duke also stated in her will that she wanted Imelda Marcos, wife of long-time Philippine dictator Ferdinand Marcos, to repay her $5 million loan. Duke posted bail for Marcos when she was indicted in New York for federal racketeering charges. She inherited all of her money from her father, James B. Duke. Duke, who had made all of his money from American Tobacco Co. and Duke Power Co., died in 1925 when she was 12 years old.

The only way that Davidson would get a portion of the trust would be indirectly. According to Kevin McCarthy, director of development, the school will continue to profit from the Duke endowment. Should part of Doris Duke’s trust go to the endowment, then Davidson could benefit.

- Information from The Charlotte Observer.

Sig Ep's bring Eileen Stephens to speak about fraternity hazing

By Carrie Blackburn

Sigma Phi Epsilon’s speaker on Wednesday evening, Mrs. Eileen Stephens, relayed her own tragic experience with hazing. Her son Chuck, a sophomore at Alfred University in New York, died in 1978 after an initiation into a fraternity ended with fatal consequences. For the first night of the Greek system’s “Hell Week,” the pledges were loaded three at a time into a car trunk with a bottle of wine, a 6-pack of beer, and a bottle of Jack Daniels. They were told they could not get out until they finished the entire combination of alcohol. When finally removed, the pledges were all vomiting or unconscious. They were left to sleep it off, but during the night Chuck died, and two other students suffered life-threatening injuries.

Remarkably, Mrs. Stephens is “not anti-Greek, but anti-hazing.” She has allowed the tragic incident with her son to inspire her to bring about much-needed changes in hazing policies. She founded the C.H.U.C.K. Organization, Committee to Halt Useless College Killings, which has been instrumental in the passing of many of the anti-hazing laws that now exist in 38 states. Her message is simple but thought-provoking: “I am not here at Davidson because I want to offend you, but I want you to think.” Stephens admires the Greek system because she has witnessed their “energy, enthusiasm, and philanthropies” over the past 14 years; however, she remains adamantly against any practice of hazing. “Nothing anyone can say can make me think there is anything positive about hazing.” Mrs. Stephens’ sincere hope is that the positive side of the Greek system will continue without the degrading aspect of hazing.

Are You Considering Professional School?

HARVARD UNIVERSITY'S JOHN F. KENNEDY SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT

Looking for future leaders in Public Affairs. We offer a 2-year Master's program in Public Policy, with concentrations offered in:Hazing. She urged students to have "the vision, courage, and maturity to say no and speak out." Davidson’s own Student Handbook clearly outlines the school’s anti-hazing stance, which complies with Stephen’s expectations. The audience consisted primarily of freshmen. She advised the students: "It is my sincere hope that each of you will leave here tonight thinking very seriously about a very serious topic."

Chapter 14, Article 9 of North Carolina State Law defines hazing as “to annoy any student by playing abusive or ridiculous tricks upon him, to frighten, scold, beat or harass him, or to subject him to personal indignity.” The lecture was sponsored by the Sig Ep house as part of their chapter activities required after last semester’s pledging violation. Last February, Alfredo Urbino, then a pledge, was injured during an attempted “road trip.” The college received a good deal of negative coverage in the local media as a result of the incident last year. Charlotte’s Channel 9 and the Observer reports gave hazing at Davidson a high profile. In response to the situation, the Dean of Students Office distributed “Pledge/New Member Activity Guidelines” to all freshmen. Rule No. 11 on the list stated, “No pledge/new member activity may involve hazing of any sort. These prohibited activities include, but are not limited to, physical danger, alcohol and drugs, public nudity, and mental anguish.”

The Dean’s review committee, comprised of two students, Assistant Dean of Students and a faculty representative, investigated the incident and submitted findings and recommendations to Dean Terry and President Kuykendall. Educational lectures and workshops on hazing were part of the stipulations.

Effective December 1, the N.C. Law pertaining to weapons on campus will read as follows: It shall be a Class I felony to possess or carry any type of firearm, either openly or concealed, on school property.

Weapons on Campus
It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to possess or carry, whether openly or concealed, any BB gun, air rifle, air pistol, Bowie knife, dirk, dagger, slingshot, switchblade, blackjack, and/or brass knuckles.

WE DELIVER

Should Belk dorm be coed?
By Sally Stone

“Should first-year men and women be housed only in single-sex buildings?” “Is it appropriate to have men and women live on the same floor of a building?” These are some of the questions the Residence Life Office has recently posed to the SGA concerning sex designations in housing. Davidson’s housing tradition maintains single-sex dorms for freshmen, while offering both coed and single-sex dorms for upperclassmen. Recent discussions in SGA meetings have introduced the notion of coed freshman dormitories. Arguing that all coed dorms would equalize housing options for students and help interaction between the sexes, the SGA is soliciting student opinions on the matter. Arguments against campus-wide coed dorms include the loss of freshman hall unity and the idea of integrating freshmen with upperclassmen of the opposite sex. As SGA senator Greg Fisher stated, in order for coed freshman dorms to even be considered by RLO and the Dean of Students Office, the SGA “really needs strong student support. If students are indifferent, it won’t happen.”

Richard Terry, Director of Residence Life, agreed with Fisher’s premise. If students feel strongly that the residence halls should have a different configuration, “we need to know what students want,” he surmised. The issue of coed freshman halls does not end in the Residence Life Office; it is an administrative matter also. As Terry noted, however, once RLO is well aware of the student consensus, they will try to comply with student opinion. For now, the issue is left to the student body to debate and vocalize.

© Criminal Justice
Energy & Environmental Policy
© Government & Business
© Health Policy
© Housing & Community Development
© Human Services, Labor & Education
© International Affairs & Security
© International Development
© International Trade & Finance
© Press & Politics
© Science & Technology
© Transportation
© Urban Economic Development

Interested? Then come meet with the Kennedy School Representative who will visit your campus on:
DATE: Tuesday, November 16, 1993
TIME: 10:30 am group session
LOCATION: Please contact the Student Counseling / Career Office for this information.

Monday Special
Buy any item from our menu, get the 2nd one 1/2 price. (Excluding drinks & appetizers)

Wednesday Special
All U Can Eat Pizza $4.50
Pitchers of Beer $3.00
All ABC Permits -- TV in Bar
892-4794
I-77 Exit 30, Davidson
Sadler Square
M-F 11:30-10:00
Sat 4:00-10:00