e Havidsonian

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXV. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1993: NUMBER 8

Autumn colors

Photo by Chris Frampton

As the semester begins to wind down, fall colors have taken over the Davidson campus. Last Tuesday, the field hockey
team worked to get ready for the Deep South tournament.

Union consultants' recommendation

By Court McBryde

Davidson College hired MPC consultants Gail Biddison and Tony Hire of Washington D.C. to conduct market research and propose a
plan for a new Union. They made their first visit to Davidson in September to see the College and talk
to students about the environment. The two consultants took their accumulated research about Davidson life back to D.C. and returned
on Thursday, October 28 with a presentation of a proposed plan for a new union. Administrators, faculty, and students convened
in the 900 Room for two hours to listen and respond to their assessment.

Their union plan entailed certain union programs to be located in primary and secondary centers, with a satellite location for
specific purposes. The primary center would fit the concept of a “student crossroads” which would support developmental needs of Davidson
students, cater to student social/recreational needs, serve as a compliment/alternative to Patterson Court, and encourage student interactions. The desired location
of this facility would be within the residential zone.

Biddison and Hire suggested that the primary center encompass student organization offices, meeting space, campus radio, living room, game room,
pub (possibly a sports bar), performance space, convenience store/deli, video and equipment rental, ATM, laundromat, and Union staff offices.

The concept of a “community crossroad” would fit the secondary center. This entity of the union would serve as the
“front door/public face”, a place to promote informal academic discourse as well as interactions among students, staff, faculty, and the
community. A bookstore/newsstand, electronic service center, coffee house/sandwich shop with outdoor patio, ATM, study space, and administrative offices are proposed
elements found in the secondary center.

The satellite locations of the proposed union would accommodate occasional activities that require large spaces and/or costly activities such as
a climbing wall or first-class bands. Its uses would be more specific and thus the location would not be as
important.

Biddison and Hire constantly brought up “the need to put the Union in a location where the campus population is...
so that people can take advantage of what is offered at that specific time of day.” They commented that there
seemed to be a shift from the academic day to the social life at night (Patterson Court vs. Union); therefore,
Biddison and Hire gathered that the campus needed more diversity, variety, and alternatives to Patterson Court.

After Biddison and Hire gave their presentation, they opened the floor for questions and discussion about the presented idea. The
consultants stressed their objective for this trip to Davidson was to solicit reactions and obtain ideas about the proposed plan.
During the open discussion, a particular concern was repeatedly addressed. Many administrators and students did not support the aspect of
the separation of a Union into different buildings and locations. Locations that were proposed for a new Union included: the
current location, Johnston Gym, laundry area, Vail Commons, Belk Dormitory, and Cunningham Fine Arts Center.Here is the cleaned OCR text,
preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Chair to Address Faculty
By Chris Frampton

Honor Council Chairman Ward Davis will discuss the effectiveness of the Honor Code with the faculty this Tuesday. Members of
the faculty have indicated suspicions that the Code no longer prevents students from cheating. According to Davis, those faculty members
who have raised questions are concerned that students are not reporting others that they know have cheated. Says Davis, "We
don’t know how many teachers are upset with the system but we know they are there. So we are hoping
that they..."

Several members of the faculty are specifically distressed by several cases that went before the Council earlier this year and
last. However, because of the confidential nature of the trial process, their names and the students involved in the cases
could not be disclosed. For his part, Davis thinks the Honor Code is very successful in dealing with violations. However,
the Honor Code does require the cooperation of all Davidson students. It is not unusual for the Honor...

See Honor continued on page 4

---

SGA Challenges Trustee Church Affiliation Rule
By Leigh Rawdon

“All persons elected as Trustees shall be active members of a Christian church,” state the current bylaws of the Davidson
Trustees. Many students find this requirement unacceptable. A movement in the SGA to address the potential changes in the Statement
of Purpose, a current issue being addressed by a small trustee and faculty committee, led to the discovery of this
specification. On Tuesday, SGA president Alden Smith presented a resolution calling for the elimination of church membership as a prerequisite
for potential trustees. The student-elected senate passed the resolution with three senators voting “no” and one abstained from voting.

Why the recent attention? The SGA became aware of the requirement after a discussion in the Alumni Association board. The
Alumni board also invites only active church members to serve as Alumni trustees. The theoretical question arose addressing the...

One senator...

See Trust on page 2

---

Photo by Casey Rogers

Spelman College president Johnetta Betsch Cole addressed issues of diversity at Saturday's Fall Convocation. Later, President Kuykendall awarded her with
an honorary degree, Doctor of Laws.

---

Cole Speaks at Convocation
By Rachel Dunifon

Fall Convocation, a celebration of the class of ’94, was held on Saturday at 10:30 in Love Auditorium and open
to all students and families. This provided seniors with the frightening experience of wearing their caps and gowns for the
first time. Additionally, Convocation saw the recognition of several members of the Davidson community, and brought a remarkable speaker who
roused the audience.

The Convocation address was given by Johnetta Betsch Cole, President of Spelman College since 1987. Hailed by Dr. Kuykendall as
“a college leader who understands both the vocation and the environment incumbent upon her,” she is a frequent spokesperson for
the American Association of Higher Education, and is the first African-American woman to be president of Spelman.

See Cole on page 4

---

Inside This Week

NEWS: Bar Wars: local pubs compete for college business. Page 2.
OPINIONS: Jerry Stockdale responds to Kaylor's letter. Page 9.
SPORTS: Big basketball preview. Pages 18 & 19.
ARTS: Rachel loves Jim Morrison and The Doors. Page 12. Geoff Graham likes George Strait even if he doesn't write.
Page 14.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
