6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1993

Israel, PLO sign historic agreement

By Brett Marston

Archenemies Yasir Arafat, Chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), and Yitzak Rabin, Prime Minister of Israel, will meet in
Washington today to approve a new Palestinian-Israeli peace accord in the most dramatic show of goodwill in the Middle East
since the Camp David meetings between Israel and Egypt in 1978. The agreement will provide for Palestinian self-rule in the
Gaza Strip and the West Bank city of Jericho and marks the first step in what may become the creation
of a separate Palestinian state. The Israelis have occupied the Gaza Strip and the West Bank since Rabin led the
Israeli forces to victory in 1967.

The two men paved the way for this historic meeting on Friday as they formally recognized each other’s existence. “The
Government of Israel has decided to recognize the PLO as the representative of the Palestinian people and commence negotiations with
the PLO within the Middle East peace process,” Rabin wrote to Arafat on Friday. Writing from PLO headquarters in Tunis,
Arafat asserted “the right of the State of Israel to exist in peace and security,” renounced the use of violence,
and pledged to void the articles of the PLO charter which call for the destruction of Israel.

The letters and the agreement represent the fruit of several months of secret, Norwegian-brokered negotiations between Israel and the PLO.
Until recently, Israel had vowed never to negotiate directly with members of the PLO, who have killed countless Israelis in
brutal terrorist attacks, including the massacre of eleven members of the Israeli Olympic team in Munich in 1972. Talks with
local Palestinians had stalled and extremist groups in the occupied territories and in Israel were gaining influence when the Norwegians
came forward with a proposal to act as a mediator in discussions with the PLO. The Israelis, seeing a chance
to save the peace process in the Middle East, accepted the Norwegian offer.

After alienating most of its financial supporters in the Arab world when it sided with Iraq in the Gulf War,
the PLO has run into financial difficulties. In addition, the 1987 outbreak of the intifada, a spontaneous uprising of frustrated
Palestinians in the occupied territories, and the rapid growth of several extremist groups have challenged the PLO’s claim to be
the sole representative of the Palestinian people. Many commentators see Arafat’s move as a final attempt to gain support for
the PLO and hold on to his own dwindling political authority. Radical Palestinians, such as the Iranian-backed group Hamas, and
Ahmed Jibril, leader of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command, condemn Arafat’s dealings with Israel and vow
to continue using violence in the occupied territories. Jibril hinted that Arafat will soon be assassinated.

Israeli extremists, on the other hand, do not trust the Palestinians and are opposed to Palestinian self-rule. They are afraid
that the Palestinians will continue to try to destroy Israel. According to a poll quoted in Newsweek, however, 53 percent
of the Israelis and 52.8 percent of the Palestinians in the occupied territories approve of the peace accord.

Editors' note: This article was written using ideas and analysis from The Christian Science Monitor, Newsweek, The Wall Street Journal,
and the New York Times. This is a common practice in smaller newspapers.

Hands-on management in the White House

"Jack Kennedy came into the White House determined to dismantle his Republican predecessor's rigid, formal staff organization in favor of
a spontaneous, flexible, hands-on management style. Thirty years later Bill Clinton seems determined to do the same thing. He would
do well to remember what it got J.F.K. was the Bay of Pigs and the Vietnam War." -Richard Reeves in
the September issue of American Heritage

The war on waste

“While Vice President Gore's National Performance Review has taken good ideas from its predecessors and introduced many of its own,
it uses a butter knife on a job that requires a chain saw. The $108 billion in savings over five
years proposed by the National Performance Review just won't mean much to a nation heading toward complete bankruptcy at the
rate of a billion dollars a day. Even if we manage to save the $108 billion, that's only 1.3% of
federal spending over five years. Thus, Mr. Gore's vaunted "reinventing" of government is a monumental exaggeration, no matter how many
forklifts are seen in the background." -J. Peter Grace in the September 10 issue of The Wall Street Journal. Mr.
Grace was the author of the Reagan Administration's study on government efficiency.

Middle-East gamble

“The conflict between Israelis and Palestinians has not been kind to optimists and idealists. It has been a long and
bitter triumph of experience over hope. And yet its costs have been too great to permit either Israelis or Palestinians
to subside into fatalism. For this reason, the agreement between Israel and the PLO workedout discreetly in Oslo, while the
movers and the shakers in Washington believed that the action was [in the U.S. Capitol], is already a momentous achievement,
and a little hard to believe."
— From the editorial in the September 20 edition of The New Republic

The First Family's head
"Now we can't bring ourselves to make fun of the first daughter. Especially since some of us have been going
through an awkward adolescent stage for nearly four decades. But we can say: 'Damn it, Hillary, quit fussing with your
hair and do something about Chelsea's... And, speaking of coiffures, Jimmy Carter never in his life got a haircut that
cost more than $2.50, if appearances are anything to go by."
— From a P.J. O'Rourke article entitled "100 Reasons why Jimmy Carter was a better president than Bill Clinton" in
the September issue of The American Spectator

Do you need something to fill out your resume or just something to put on it besides flickerball? Write for
News. Call Mandy at 6252.

Analysis from the Dean Rusk Program — Japan faces a complete upheaval
By Lee Pennington

Japanese political activity has a substantial impact on our historical and economic view of the modern world. The modern Japanese
political system is an organic outgrowth of American policy towards Japan (and Cold War containment policy) following World War II.
The Americans drafted Japan’s post-war constitution, structured the economy, and selected the pattern of democratic, pluralistic politics. However, until recently,
the political-economic system has remained a self-preserving entity, led by the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) during its 38-year-long monopoly in
the Japanese Diet.

There’s been an eclipse in the Land of the Rising Sun. Like the United States, Japan has a multi-party political
system and a complex arrangement of regional representation in a legislative assembly. Unlike the U.S., Japan has been governed by
a single party, rather than through the sparring of two opposition parties. This past summer, as a consequence of numerous
political scandals and charges of corruption, the LDP prime minister dissolved the Diet and called for new elections. (This would
be the equivalent of the Speaker of the House of Representatives telling all the members to go home and have
new elections because they are all too corrupt.) Such activity is the norm for Japanese politics, and it usually ends
up with the Diet members making a lot of promises to clean up their act before being reelected. Politics continue
as usual.

This year a coalition of seven minor political parties decided that 38 years of LDP control is enough. A non-LDP
coalition now controls the Diet, although the LDP still maintains the majority of seats. The election of a new prime
minister, Morihiro Hosokawa, was a difficult decision for a coalition consisting of such diverse members as the Japanese Socialist Party
and Komeito, a Buddhist-based party. This coalition of seven minor political parties was formed solely for the purpose of seeking
to deny the LDP a role in the new government.

The potential impact of a new focus in political behavior has relevance to the historical and economic standing of Japan
in the world order. The Hosokawa government — for the first time in post-war history — has admitted that mistakes
were made by the Japanese during World War II. Such an acknowledgment is a comfort for Japan’s Asian neighbors, yet
it also tells the Japanese people that this non-LDP government is serious in its aims of reforming the political system.
The Hosokawa government’s movement in such a direction denotes the import of the potential for change.

Economically, the new government may be better able to reduce the escalating gap between the US dollar and the Japanese
yen, a source of conflict between the two governments. If the Japanese do decide to increase interference in economic policy,
the US may see improved relations with Japan in regard to the trade deficit and market agreements. Politics concern the
play of interest against interest and power against power. While the potential for reform has been laid out, the fulfilling
of such a goal remains to be seen. How long will these seven members of the coalition government put their
own objectives on the back burner? How stable will this non-LDP government be among Japan’s peers in the international order?
How satisfied will the Japanese electorate be with Hosokawa’s government? The answers to these questions will determine whether or not
the LDP will come back in the way of the rising sun.

Pitchers of Beer
STUDENTS — Call us for all your party and food needs.
AVINO'S
We have beer, pizza, dinners, and sandwiches. Our Prices Can't Be Beat!
Monday Special: Buy any item from our menu, get the 2nd one 1/2 price. (Excluding drinks & appetizers)
Wednesday Special: All U Can Eat Pizza
All ABC Permits — TV in Bar
892-4794
I-77 Exit 30, Davidson • Sadler Square • M-F 11:30-10:00 • Sat 4:00-10:00
