ARTS 8 / MONDAY, MARCH 8, 1993

Restaurant Review... Lancaster's Provides Taste of Real NC Bar-B-Q
By Rachel Newcomb

A few miles up the road in Mooresville, Lancaster’s Eastern N.C. Style Bar-b-que offers a wide range of options for the barbecue lover. Owned by Jeff Lancaster, Lancaster’s has been in business since December 1986 and moved to its current location this past December. Lancaster’s is housed in a spacious building marked by bright green lights on the outside. Racetrack memorabilia is creatively spread throughout the interior, evoking the image of the Charlotte Motor Speedway. The black-and-white checkered floor mixed with the racetrack decor creates a bright and comfortable feeling.

Menu choices range from barbecue sandwiches to entire platters, all prepared in the “Eastern N.C. Style.” According to Mr. Lancaster, Eastern N.C. style is a vinegar-based barbecue that originated in the eastern part of the state. It is different from the sweet, ketchup-based barbecue that is popular in other areas of the South. Lancaster’s secret family recipe successfully masters the Eastern N.C. style for a perfectly seasoned, spicy sauce.

My dining companion had the combination barbecue pork & chicken platter, accompanied by brunswick stew, potatoes, and slaw. He pronounced the barbecue to be very delectable and also enjoyed the hearty brunswick stew. I tried the buffalo wings, proclaimed by the menu as the “world’s greatest.” They were quite savory, cooked in the secret barbecue sauce with a slightly crisp skin and served with celery and blue cheese dressing. I recommend a side order of the delicious home fries, which complement the wings very well.

Lancaster’s also offers fried chicken, all types of barbecue pork, hushpuppies, catfish dinners, sandwiches, and corn dogs and chicken fingers for the kids. Catering is also an option. One of the good things about Lancaster’s is the hearty portions. For under five dollars, Lancaster’s enormous dinners are an excellent bargain.

Music... Forget Seattle, Minneapolis Has the Sound
By Peter Arnold

Life is too short to listen exclusively to one type of music. All of us have a favorite group or sound that we like, but if you limit yourself to only that group or sound, you are selling yourself short and missing a lot of great music that is available. In the next few issues, I will attempt to give you ALBUMS YOU CANNOT POSSIBLY LIVE WITHOUT. We'll try for two albums a week until the end of the semester. Oh, it’s way too early to start freaking out about exams.

Husker Du, a band from Minneapolis, comes to my mind as one of the all-time greats. Nobody has duplicated the sound these guys cranked out for the ten years they were together. Headed up by Bob Mould, who is now with the band Sugar, Husker Du came out of the Minneapolis scene in the early 80’s with a record deal from Twin Tone. They went on to record five more albums before splitting up.

The Husker Du sound is dominated by a guitar that is compressed about a thousand times and a tight drum sound similar to Stewart Copeland of the Police. The best album these guys recorded is Flip Your Wig (1985). This album gives the listener a taste of the sound that came out of the Midwest, a heavy sort of chaotic noise. Some of the tracks come close to Nirvana’s Territorial Pissings. A track that comes to mind is “Divide and Conquer,” a sweet little ditty about how screwed up our country and government are. This band is most definitely worth listening to.

To stay with the Minneapolis scene, one can’t forget the “new kids on the block,” Soul Asylum. To give an idea about where S.A. fits into the “Minneapolis timeline,” they are the last big band to emerge. Prince was the first, followed by Husker Du, The Replacements, and then S.A. I had the chance to see Soul Asylum over Christmas break at First Ave., a club in downtown Minneapolis. Besides being way too loud, the concert was a classic—the singer...

See "Arnold" on page 9

Photo courtesy of Shaw Concerts, Inc.
The Endellion String Quartet will perform in Hodson Hall tonight at 8:15.

Renowned Endellion Quartet to Perform at Davidson
By Ceci Combs

The Endellion String Quartet will be performing tonight at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall. This British quartet has been touring internationally for 14 years and has recently completed a successful tour of the United States. Visiting major European cities such as Paris, Amsterdam, and Rome...as well as South America and the Middle East, the players have earned their reputation as one of the finest string quartets on the international scene. The players include Andrew Watkinson, first violin; Ralph de Souza, 2nd violin; Garfield Jackson, viola; and David Waterman, cello. Affectionately known as the “Dellis,” the foursome has maintained a large following at home. They are frequent guests on BBC Radio and Television as well as at many chamber music festivals. The quartet is known for its innovative renditions of pieces by classical composers such as Haydn and Mozart. After a performance, The London Times once commented that “their sense of spontaneous enjoyment was reflected as much in their faces as in the lovely sounds they produced.” This performance will be one you don’t want to miss.

Essay, a Week Late... Harmony, Diversity Found in "Control" By Geoffrey Graham

Students have lived with friends for far too long. It’s about time these exclusive clusters were broken up, and replaced by diverse halls with little in common. Ending clusters is not enough. The college must go farther. If we earnestly want a completely diverse school, we must put an end to all relationships based solely on shared interests and like backgrounds. The school’s discontinuation of clustering is a movement in the right direction. The first step in an intimidating staircase of animosity and misunderstanding lies behind us. Many more, however, lie ahead, begging to be trampled. Despite the successful induction of the non-clustering policy, we must be circumspect. Without clusters, students may resort to hiding in their rooms with a roommate whom they already know. We want no hermits. Seclusion could harvest even closer, more exclusive relationships between roommates. An easy solution might involve random roommate assignments. See "Control" on page 9.

The waiter was very helpful and attentive and the service was prompt. It is definitely worth the six-mile drive to Mooresville to sample the barbecue at Lancaster’s. Their Eastern N.C. Style barbecue is very good, and the family-type atmosphere is pleasant and comfortable. If you’re going, take the first Mooresville exit on I-77 and travel east. Go through the traffic light at Wal-Mart and take the first left before Bojangles, Rinehart Road. It's 300 yards on the right.

Movie Review ... Subtlety Makes Groundhog Day a Blast By Scott McLean

Bill Murray’s latest outing in the movies, Groundhog Day, can best be described as a happy, funny, feel-good flick for the spring of 1993. After having tackled several serious films in this column as of late, it was a relief to see a light-hearted picture like this one. While this is no Ghostbusters or Caddyshack or one of Bill’s other big films of the early ‘80s (and who expected it to be), it is one of his better films and is quite an entertaining one at that. Murray plays Phil Connors, a Pittsburgh weatherman who heads to a small town to do his annual report on the Groundhog Day Festival that takes place there. In tow are his producer Rita (Andie MacDowell) and his cameraman who are both upbeat and friendly and provide a nice foil to Murray’s arrogant and sarcastic character. In any case, if you haven’t heard the catch of the story yet, it is that Connors finds himself reliving the same day, Groundhog Day, over and over again. The fun really starts when he decides to use this to his advantage. Director Harold Ramis, Murray’s longtime partner in crime, manages to keep the film bopping along fairly well, though it does seem to drag in spots. I wasn't really bothered by that too much as this enchanting little ditty kept my attention throughout its duration - and that’s no minor accomplishment. Bill’s humor was a lot more subtle than his usual in-your-face style; yet, I found that refreshing and it made the material seem even funnier. Andie MacDowell was great as the sweeter-than-sugar Rita - her family lives in my hometown of Asheville, so you know I had to give it up for my homegirl. She knew exactly when to stand back and give the spotlight to Bill and when to hop right in there with him. Kudos to you Andie! Overall I’d say this is a great little PG-rated flick and I would recommend it to anyone (namely y’all) desiring to see a nice relaxing comedy.