“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

The Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXIV MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 1993 NUMBER 13

Davidson Football to Maintain Status Quo Despite Change

By Bruce Balestier

Legislation at last week’s NCAA Convention mandated that, in order for Davidson’s entire athletic program to remain at the Division I level, the football program must move to the more expensive and competitive Division I-AA level. But a niche in the legislation will allow the team to continue to play a Division III schedule.

The NCAA acknowledges a subdivision of I-AA programs that play cost-containment football, schools that attempt to diminish the cost of playing at the I-AA level by keeping scholarships to a minimum. Since at this time, according to the NCAA, there are not six schools within a 500-mile radius of Davidson that play cost-containment I-AA football, the football program was granted a geographical waiver. The waiver exempts Davidson from I-AA scheduling requirements, so that the football team can continue to play a schedule of Division III opponents.

But Athletic Director Terry Holland isn’t sure Davidson even needs the geographical exemption. According to Holland, it’s possible that Davidson, though classified as Division I-AA, could continue to play a Division III schedule and fail to meet I-AA scheduling requirements.

See "Football" on page 3

Soccer Receives Honors, Recognition

Davidson Draws Rave Slagle, Ukrop Net National Awards

By Bruce Balestier

After leading the nation in scoring with 72 points (31 goals, 10 assists) this season and helping his team to a spot in the NCAA Tournament’s Final Four, Davidson senior Rob Ukrop was recognized January 12 as the 1992 winner of the Adi Dassler Memorial Award. The Adi Dassler is awarded each year to the country’s best collegiate soccer player; Ukrop was the Division I representative on the ballot, and was chosen over representatives from Division II, Division III, and NAIA.

The award was the second of the three major post-season awards to be announced. Virginia sophomore Claudio Reyna won the Missouri Athletic Commission MVP award and UCLA goalkeeper Brad Friedel won the Herrmann Award, for which Reyna and Ukrop were the other finalists. Said Davidson coach Charlie Slagle, “Rob was deserving of being one of the top three people in soccer this year.”

Ukrop’s season totals for goals and points were both Davidson records. He concluded his career with 76 goals, 32 assists, and 184 points, all Davidson records as well. The official presentation of the Adi Dassler to Ukrop will occur at halftime of the UNC-Charlotte-Davidson basketball game on January 30 in Belk Arena.

Slagle was named the Division I Coach of the Year January 15 by the National Soccer Coaches Association of America. The award was presented at the NSCAA’s annual convention in Baltimore. Slagle guided the non-scholarship team to the Soccer Final Four.

See "Slagle" on page 3

Students May See Steady Increase in Activities Tax

By Leigh Rawdon

On Tuesday evening, January 19 at the SGA meeting, the Union Board presented a proposal that significantly changes student activity funding. Ann Todd, Union Board President, and William Brown, Union Director, recommended to the Senate that the activity fee be determined annually as one percent of tuition. They also advised that the Activities Tax Council assume responsibility for all funds collected by the fee. The Senate approved both motions with five votes against the one percent indicator of the tax increase.

Lawson McWhorter, Activities Tax Council Chair, hopes “that the new money will spark student imagination for new activities and organizations. The new policy is the logical thing to do.”It will allow the ATC more flexibility in allocating funds to student organizations.” McWhorter has served on the Council for three years and has seen the council become a more active committee ensuring student funds are spent efficiently. Until now, half of the money collected from the student activities tax immediately became a part of the Union Board’s budget. The Activities Tax Council allocated the other half to student organizations such as Reach Out, IMAC, SGA, and The Davidsonian. In the past years, the council has played a more important role by keeping up with organizations’ budgets throughout the year to ensure that student funds are used according to plans. Gradually, the ATC has gained the power to allow students to oversee every allocation of their activity fee. The activity tax for the current academic year was $130. Twenty years ago, the tax was $80. The Union proposal noted that this is a 62% increase when the tuition has _

See "Activity" on page 3

By Bruce Balestier

Davidson’s handling of the NCAA Soccer Tournament’s Final Four, held December 4 and 6 of last year, has thus far elicited only praise from participants, observers, and NCAA personnel alike. Attendance records were set at the event by drawing sell-out crowds of 8,150 for each of the three games, and plans are already in the works to expand Richardson Field’s capacity for next year’s Final Four to about 10,000 with additional temporary seating. Those in charge of the event at Davidson, including men’s soccer coach Charlie Slagle and Tournament Director Jim Wright, report that careful planning resolved most of the logistical problems that scared them before the event.

“With just some minor difficulties which can be easily ironed out, I think it went as smoothly as we could have imagined. We tried to think of things that could go wrong, and we did a pretty good job,” Slagle said.

Said Wright, “Overall, things went nearly as well as we could have expected. Our biggest worry was whether we could handle the parking problems that 8,000 people would create. We felt that the property just off the interstate would be ideal and, as it turned out, it was. On both days we had the parking area cleared just over an hour after the games were finished. Thankfully, the weather cooperated and everything went well.”

The NCAA was especially pleased with Davidson’s handling, led by women’s soccer coach Kevin Hundley, of the Youth Education through Sports (YES) Clinic held. The clinic was well attended and was instructed by Davidson players and numerous other college players and coaches. Slagle added a new touch to the clinic by introducing the parents at the clinic to the various coaches and players.

“The NCAA officials, including the head of youth programs, were here and thought it was one of the best, if not the best, YES Clinics that they’ve had,” Hundley said.

The most obvious success of the Davidson effort was the atmosphere it created for the games themselves. The Final Four coaches were unanimous in calling it the type of setting that the event deserved but had never before gotten.

“It’s a great venue for soccer,” said San Diego coach Seamus McFadden.

Looking to build on the initial success, Davidson officials had planned to seek an extension to the school’s contract as host, but were beaten to the punch by satisfied NCAA officials, who have already suggested that Davidson be awarded the event for 1994.

See "Finals" on page 3

INSIDE

NEWS: Fraternity Receives Probation for Soccer Revelry. See page 2.

OPINIONS: Sean Grows Olds. See page 8. Gullan Adjusts to Life at Davidson. See page 9.

ARTS: Bumstead Reviews the Year in Music. See page 11.

SPORTS: Roos Buzzer-beater Tops Winthrop. See page 13.

First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC 28036