12 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1993

Who Died and Left You the Judge?
by Marilyn Ambroise

Too often I hear people who refer to themselves as “good Christians” pass judgment on others. They sit back in
their high chairs, day after day, pointing fingers at people. These “good Christians” worship the Lord for one day—if not
less than that (technically)—and for the rest of the days of the week, they worship the devil. Their criticisms are
usually based on ignorance and misunderstanding. The issue of homosexuality is a perfect illustration of this fact.

Nothing fascinates me more than the ability of some “good Christians” to claim to love God and resent homosexuals in
one breath. It is one thing to hear someone who I know is an atheist speak against homosexuality, because I
know that they are not obliged to live by a book that speaks against all forms of hatred. But as
for those who do claim to serve God, I am repulsed by their attitudes toward homosexuals. For the holy Bible
focuses on love and not hate.

Even more amazing though, is the way in which some “good Christians” try to justify their feelings for homosexuals. They
use the Bible, or better yet, they manipulate the Bible to perpetuate this form of hate. One example of this
is the frequently used Scripture in the book of Romans, which reads, “For this cause God gave them up unto
vile affections; for even their women did change the natural use into that which is against nature. And likewise also
the men, leaving the natural use of the woman, burning in their lust towards other men, with men working that
which is unseemly, and receiving in themselves that recompense of their error which was meet.”

Notice that homosexuality is never mentioned. In addition, it is important that we keep in mind that the Bible has
been translated or, better yet, tampered with. There have been occasions when Scriptures were twisted to support the works of
the devil. Do you remember the times of slavery? Although I did not experience the life of a slave, I
can never forget what my African-American ancestors suffered through. It is horrifying to think of the way they were auctioned
off like pieces of merchandise, the way women slaves were raped by the slave owners, and the way they were
brutally beaten and murdered. At the same time, I will not forget that many “good Christians” tried to justify their
devilish acts by using the Bible. It was some “good Christians” that said that slavery was condoned in the Bible.

Currently, the same thing is happening with the issue of homosexuality. You see, it may be a different year, and
the victims may be a different group, but the same type of individuals are guilty of perpetuating hate by the
same means. I empathize with homosexuals because, although I was never a slave, I know what it is like to
be discriminated against for something that I have no control over. I cannot change my skin color and even if
I could, I would not. Similarly, homosexuals have expressed that they cannot change their sexuality. They don’t just wake up
and decide to be gay, just like I did not wake up and decide to be African-American.

Why do so many “good Christians” resent homosexuals? Probably for the same reason that many of them resent African-Americans. The
problem is that you fear who you dare not know. The mind is fascinating. Its ability to drive us to
hallucinate or make up things is overwhelming. There is no reason to fear homosexuals. They are terrific people just like
you and me. More importantly, they are God’s children—just like you and me. And as the children of any set
of parents, it is vital that we get along, no matter what our differences.

There is no reason why homosexuals should not be allowed in churches and there is no reason they should not
be allowed to serve in the military. These things touch me because I am again reminded of what my African-American
ancestors went through. They could not go to school because of the color of their skin, they could not frequent
certain places because of the color of their skin, and even after the Civil War, certain restrictions remained on them
because of the color of their skin. And now homosexuals are being forbidden to do certain things because of their
sexual orientation. Is this truly the work of God? In other words, is this what God is calling us to
do? I really don’t think so. I think that God is calling us to love. The Bible contains Scriptures that
illustrate this very clearly. It is not implied nor is it left up to interpretation when the Bible says, “Thou
shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength,
and with all thy mind; and thy neighbor as thyself” or “Owe no man any thing, but to love one
another: for he that loveth another hath fulfilled the law.”

I am a Christian and my duty as a Christian is to follow Christ. Christ did not discriminate, he loved.
He did not only love those who, for society, came easy to love, but he also loved those that were
put aside by society. If you consider yourself a “good Christian,” follow Christ. Do not sit on your high chair
judging others, for even Christ did not spend his days with this worthless occupation. Instead, occupy your heart with love
and occupy your time giving love to others.

No, the issue is not whether or not I condemn homosexuality. The issue is that homosexuals are part of this
world. They are here to stay, just as African-Americans are. Whether you like it or not, they are God’s children,
they are your brothers and sisters. Therefore, you must love them, if you call yourself a “good Christian.”

In closing, I believe that if Christ was present today in the flesh, he would embrace homosexuals and treat them
with love and kindness. I don’t think that he would judge them and therefore neither should you. For no one
died and anointed you judge!mentality of these ancestors that caused the attitudes of hatred and prejudice to be passed from
generation to generation to the present. As long as there are people who think that black people are inferior and
don’t have the mental capacity to function without the aid of others, slavery needs to be a hot topic at
hand, because people still believe the racist attitudes that emerged from slavery. In order for me to continue living as
an African-American in this country, I need to be reminded constantly of slavery so that I remember that everyone in
this world is not on my side. In fact, there are some people who are waiting to see me fail,
because I am an African-American, and they think that I am not able to succeed by my own abilities and
intelligence.

The question could be asked, “Is the constant reminder of slavery damaging to black people’s self-esteem; will they subconsciously have
an inferiority complex because of the attitudes of slavery?” No, if anything, slavery is a reminder of the strength and
courage that my ancestors exhibited when faced with such harsh conditions. It shows the strength that can emerge from what
seems like an impossible situation. I think blacks and whites should be able to discuss the issues of slavery and
learn from the actions of those times. This, however, is not happening to the extent that it should. Thus, slavery
remains a relevant issue.

Kerns Continued from page 10

their children, pointing to the students and saying, “whatever you choose to do with your life, for the sake of
our family, never act like those buffoons!” One of these raucous individuals might argue, "If Bob McKillop can contest calls,
so can I." Where this person errs is that coaches argue mostly so the next calls will go their way,
while these individuals argue presumably because their maturity level is not yet on par with Homer Simpson.

Let me state for the record that I am very much for fan participation during athletic events. I don’t condemn
booing nor am I against the occasional “Airball” chant. I am a varsity athlete (baseball) here at Davidson and wish
every student on campus would come to our games and cheer. What irks me is the mindless abuse of another
human being who is doing the best he can. I would much rather you stay in your dorm room and
do whatever it is you do behind closed doors, than come out and support us if Wednesday was any indication
of normal behavior.

To give you a better idea of what it was like to sit near these individuals, watch America’s Funniest Home
Videos with Bob Saget. Every time Bob introduces a video with an extremely unfunny anecdote, you feel yourself cringe with
embarrassment for him. This feeling of embarrassment was what it was like for me and other fellow students who are
admittedly mortified to attend the same institution of higher learning as they are. Why didn’t I just get up and
find another seat in Belk Arena? The answer is simple. Soon after witnessing this idiocy, I decided to use The
Davidsonian as a forum for my disgust, and I wanted to experience the whole game as a visiting, unsuspecting fan
might have to do. These people, who are enrolled in the same school as I (the word "classmates" might insinuate
a closeness which I by no means wish to convey), are a shameful part of the Davidson community. I think
if James Naismith (the inventor of basketball) could have foreseen the moronic behavior displayed by the students, he never would
have bothered to hang the peach baskets. I would never have been one to cast aspersions on another person, but
it is necessary to let these people know what others think of them. These fans are an embarrassment. Do everyone
a favor, take a hint! Either grow up or watch the game later on D.C.T.V.

Sincerely,
Tim Kerns ‘93

Gull's Continued from page 11

I remember when I was at Arlington National Cemetery, and found amidst all those similar white markers, a slightly larger
brown one. It turned out to be the gravestone of boxer Joe Louis, “the Brown Bomber,” who fought exhibitions all
over the world as a soldier in the still-segregated U.S. Army of World War II. I vividly remember the touching
brass-relief on the stone of him in a boxing stance. I remember my father telling me that Louis used to
be introduced in the ring as “a credit to his race,” and how upon his death a sportswriter had written
that he was indeed a “credit to his race,” but added “the human race.” It was truly a fitting tribute.
People like Louis and Ashe were outstanding athletes, solid citizens, and terrific men. Their stories are inspiring to everyone, black
or white. When we remember such people and their accomplishments, let’s celebrate them not because they were black or white
but because they were great.

Lind Continued from page 11

Or maybe it is. But I liked it better the other way. It was simpler then, and honest. “But children
are so immature,” you say, “so inexperienced that what they feel cannot be called love.” Bah! In love we are
all giggling children. But we feel obligated to play adults, to be calm and collected, to rationalize and understand our
emotions. In our experience and wisdom, we pervert love, or kill it dead. I have a bag of candy hearts
in front of me right now. “Be mine,” “Be true,” “I ‘heart’ U,” they say. Nothing ambiguous there. Donna and
I? We held sweaty hands and had palpity hearts for three and a half weeks. Then she went her way;
I went mine. C’est l'amour.

Livings Continued from page 10

“woman,” containing male pronouns. What difference does something as insignificant as that make? It all lies in empowerment. Males’ behavior
is reinforced by a male-dominated society in which gender determines what roles one will play from birth. Pretty much anything
we, as men, want to get away with, we can. We've got the whole culture backing us up. So it
would seem that we, with all of our civility, still live by the premise that might is right. Guys, let’s
try real civility. Try equality. Try respect. Try to consider her point of view before you give that high five
of conquest.

And if none of this means anything to you, consider that men, too, are forced into gender roles by our
society. Look at John Wayne, The Marlboro Man, Jean-Claude Van Damme. They’re tough, have hearts of iron, never shed a
tear, live for the conquest. These are the ultimate men, the standards to which men are to aspire. It’s hardly
any wonder men treat women with such a lack of respect. How can anyone portray such characteristics and still be
civil? But don’t take that as an excuse or explanation. Take it as an affront to your humanity, men. Equality
is a dream that will never be realized, but it’s certainly a better ideal to strive for than the Marlboro
Man. At least equality is still breathing. The Marlboro Man’s dead and I can’t even remember his name.

Sincerely,
Jack Livings '96
