Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

BACK PAGE SLAUGHTER

MONDAY, APRIL 26, 1993

Auxiliary Services Director, Carl Pritchard

On April 23, 1993, The Davidphonian was privileged to interview Mr. Carleton S. Pritchard, Esq., Davidson’s Director of Auxiliary Services.

US: Mr. Pritchard, mind if we call you Carl?

Him: Yes. You must call me Mr. Pritchard.

US: Fine. Carl, what kind of an accent is that anyway?

Him: Excuse me?

US: Where are you from? What were your humble beginnings?

Him: The actual place isn't important. Let's just call it Smalltown, America. My parents were working-class citizens in a working-class
neighborhood. From them, I learned that if you want to make something of yourself, you've got to pull yourself up
by your bootstraps. Or by somebody else's. My first real job was at McDonald's. Man, those were the days. None
of this "Happy Meal" crap. Just bad, cheap, fast food. Things were simpler then. No health nuts yelling, "High cholesterol!"
We cooked in pure beef fat. It was there that I learned the skills and values that would later enable
me to take the college dining world by storm.

US: And from there you made it to Davidson. What exactly does a “Director of Auxiliary Services” do at Davidson?

Him: I am responsible for the management of four on-campus food service outlets, as well as supervising a thriving catering
enterprise here at Davidson.

US: So, you are basically charged with providing the students with good food at good prices. Yet some would argue
that you are either hopelessly incapable of doing your job competently, or you are a cheap, money-scrounging miser. How would
you respond to those charges?

Him: Scurrilous lies. . . . Off the record? Well, I'm definitely not incompetent, and I wouldn't call myself a
"money-scrounging miser" either. I like to think of myself as the ultimate capitalist. I’m not here to serve the college
or the students, but to make a fast buck. My salary’s tied to how much I can stick you all
for in a given year. Last quarter, I made $300,000. Pretty good for an old man, eh?

US: So, the "Bonus Bucks" and new meal plans were just a con job to take our parents' money?

Him: Of course. I made it look like you guys were being given money, when, in fact, I was watching
the profits roll in from unused meals. Brilliant, wouldn’t you say? But those rip-offs pale in comparison to the UNION
OUTPOST. The single biggest boondoggle in Davidson’s history.

US: What do you mean?

Him: Think about it. I close the Union and open the OUTPOST, essentially creating a food monopoly on campus. And
you suckers are too drunk to drive anywhere else to buy food. Then, I take already inflated convenience store prices,
and add a cool 50%. Where else can you get an omelette, hashbrowns, and a Coke for $6.00? Whopping profits
for me, crappy food for you. I’ve been examining feasibility studies for some time and I think we’re ready to
go public. By year’s end, there should be a UNION OUTPOST in every city and at every freeway overpass in
our fair land.

US: But, Carl, how can you get away with such chicanery?

Him: Don’t call me Carl. . . . Off the record?

US: Of course.

Him: Well, while I’m supposed to be "managing auxiliary services", I have my fingers in everybody else’s pie as well.
I'll put it this way: Davidson College is essentially a business. In the business world, he who has the money
has the power. Revenue equals respect, if you know what I mean. And I'm the one who keeps Davidson in
the red every year. I am the man on this campus. John Kuykendall reports to me. Dean Terry? Baldy’s on
the payroll. When I say jump, the Trustees say “How high?”

US: My goodness, we had no idea you were so powerful. But you can’t be completely profit-motivated. At least the
Commons is a good deal. Right?

Him: Yeah, right. You boys look a little thin. Have you been eating in the commons lately?

US: Every night.

Him: I wouldn’t eat that food if my life depended on it. How do you think I’ve lived this long?
Not by eating that fat-laden, cholesterol-rich, poly-saturated road kill. We take the horses even the glue factories reject. You never
knew Badger tasted so good until we called it “Veal Cutlet.”

US: Well, to be quite honest Carl, we’re shocked.

Him: Why should you be? I represent the values on which this nation was founded: greed, greed, and more greed.
If you wanted to get a real education for your 20,000 bucks, you should’ve come to me.

Drawing courtesy of the Art Department

Since no one at The Davidphonian actually talked to Carl, he was unavailable to be photographed (is that a word?).
This is a rendering.

Did anybody else notice we didn't mention FIJI even once in the whole paper?
