THE DAVIDSONIAN; MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1993

The Davidsonian

HARRISON ROBERTS - Editor in Chief
LEIGH RAWDON - Managing Editor
MANDY CURTIS - News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL - Sports Editor
WILL COBB - Ass't Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

WELLS BLACK - Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS - Business Manager
ERIK SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

Coming Home

It seemed like any other homecoming. Blue skies. Crisp autumn air. Cool enough to wear new sweaters but sunny enough to make it a little too warm for woolen clothes. The stands crowded with dressed-up students with and without dates; the track and neighboring field full of nostalgic alums.

But some things are different. For one, the football team has a winning record. The Wildcats showed their possibly only-one-game-per-season fans that the team is even more competitive than the impressive record suggests. The Davidson community certainly recognizes and appreciates the stamina and determination of the football team. Surely the overwhelming attendance throughout the game is evidence of this.

But other changes are more subtle than a well-attended football game. The Visual Arts Center greets all I-77, Exit 28 visitors with grandeur and prestige. A new bed and breakfast inn and a fine French restaurant recognize the growing consumer base of the town and college. A kiosk by the senior apartments tangibly marks a decade-long, determined lobby by the SGA for improved communications on campus. Plans for a new senior apartment building will answer the many complaints from seniors who have not had apartments. Some alums would probably even marvel over the technology of CHAL or the multi-purposed CAT cards.

Ahhh, but wouldn’t all alums and even many students hail the coming of voice mail. Maybe one day. But until that day we will miss our friendly and sometimes clever answering machines. And we will fight with the new system and its many-paged, but not very helpful, handbook.

Davidson alums may have “come home” and seen some visible signs of moving forward with advancements in technology and opportunity, but they certainly also re-experienced the institution of a Davidson Homecoming. While we face that stage between tradition and progress that involves struggle and skepticism, let us not forget that some things will always remain the same.

LETTERS

Isn't $21,037 enough money?

To the editors,

According to the 1993-1994 Davidson Student Handbook, the comprehensive fee to study, live, and eat at Davidson is $21,037. This fee covers tuition, room, board, laundry, and various student activities. By almost any standard, this is a rather substantial sum of money. If students and/or parents must pay so much for a Davidson education, why is it necessary for the school to “nickel and dime” us in other areas?

One morning, I went down to Vail to grab a rare breakfast (the fifteen minutes it takes to eat are a rare commodity on most mornings). When I reached the front of the line, I was told that my CAT card was bent, and not able to be read by the CAT machine (is that what it’s called?). If I would just go upstairs, I was told, my card could be flattened and run back through the machine. At the commons offices, however, I learned that because my card had developed a “bubble” inside the seal, I must purchase a new one. Oddly, my card had had such a bubble for weeks, and worked without problem at all previous meals. So I paid my ten dollars and received my handy new CAT card that was, fortunately, bubble-free.

Yet, the whole idea that students must purchase new cards when theirs become defective still seems a bit odd to me. Certainly, the cost of materials and labor needed to produce a new card does not come close to the exorbitant cost of ten dollars! It is not the fact that I shelled out ten dollars which bothers me. What has me irritated is that the school asks students to pay for mistakes which are not their own. Had I lost my card, then there would be no issue. It just seems to...me that a fee in excess of twenty-one thousand dollars might allow the school a little margin to replace defective items, including, but not restricted to, CAT cards. We are paying enough to attend school here, and there is absolutely no need to maintain this ridiculous policy.

Sincerely,
Ian Fitzpatrick ’97

Don't be so quick to dismiss ideas

To the editors,

I would like to take this opportunity to voice a serious concern I have in reaction to what I read every week in the "Letters to the Editor" section of The Davidsonian. Starting with the second paper of the year there has been a letter in each issue condemning Rafael's and Travis' column (or any other opinion concerning prejudice, racism, or race relations at Davidson). I do believe in and encourage everyone's right to voice opinions and different views, but what frightens me is the tone and frequency of the aforementioned letters.

I certainly would not pretend to agree with everything that Rafael and Travis have to say, but, as a white Anglo-Saxon Protestant male it does and should cause some reflection and serious self-evaluation on my part. The fervent defensiveness and overall abrasive and condescending tone of the majority of these letters is what really worries me. Are we indeed so individually closed-minded and egotistical that we refuse to admit that we have faults--perhaps major faults--that can be offensive, demeaning, or at the very least disturbing to others?

We must face facts: prejudice is inherent (if I look at you the first thing I see--no matter how much I try to reject it--is your skin color) and therefore racism is pervasive, no matter how experienced or educated one is. Perhaps the best way to try to do something about racism is to become less defensive and more open-minded about and receptive to what people on the major receiving end have to say about it from their own perspective. Don't be so quick to ignore and deny--or by doing so you might just find yourself affirming the ideas you rebel so violently against. After all, what better testament to the existence (and maybe prevalence) of racism at Davidson than the fact that there are so many closed-minded responses to what blacks on campus have to say?

Sincerely,
Zac Lacy '97

Directories are a "travesty"

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

My joy at receiving the new Telephone Directory was demolished--and then some--by the "artwork." As a tribute to coeducation, the cutesy "girl" on the cover, fawning over "Sam," is a travesty. I cannot know what the intentions were in publishing such an obnoxious piece, but the effect, I think, is very negative. It suggests that at Davidson we want "girls" to entertain our "boys," girls whose happiness is found in dependence on men; that women with brains, independence, and feelings of self-worth should not be sought here--perhaps are not wanted here. I think the directories should be recalled, apologies made to the women--and men--of this community, and new directories reissued with a cover that expresses an image of women that Davidson College can cultivate with integrity.

Sincerely,
David Kaylor
Professor of Religion

Editors' note: this is an open letter addressed to Jerry Stockdale, Director of College Relations.