THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1993

Bar Wars

Local restaurants, Back Street Cafe, Davino's, and Holiday Inn's Signatures, compete for students' week-night business.

By Ashlyn Dannelly

Davidson student business is proving to be a hot commodity. Several local businesses are working hard to attract large crowds to their prospective establishments. Davino’s, Back Street Cafe, and Signatures compete for the low budget, college weeknight crowd.

Within walking distance from campus, Davino’s Restaurant and Bar draws large numbers of Davidson students with its Wednesday night specials. Owner Steve Tonaus offers all you can eat pizza for $4.50 and beer at 75 cents a mug. According to Tonaus, “normally, they’re packed in here all night long.” Davino’s seats at least 106 people, and Tonaus estimates that on an average Wednesday night, there have been from 100 to 150 students attending.

Such strong competition appears to be affecting an old Davidson favorite, Back Street Cafe. In the past, Back Street was a popular Thursday night hangout for many Wildcats. But, according to co-owner Kathie Bryant, this year’s Thursday night crowds have “dropped off tremendously. We’re talking on the average one-half below last year.”

Bryant attributes this change to a more stringent ID policy. Now, all students are carded at the door, and Back Street issues plastic “hospital” wristbands to all 21 year olds. However, Bryant stresses that under 21 year olds “are still welcome,” and the restaurant still offers its Thursday night drink specials. The new banding policy results from a personal decision made within the business. Bryant says Back Street plans to kick off the new policy with a big band party sometime soon. She adds: “We’re happy with our business, but we would like to get Thursday night back to Davidson night.”

Entering the fray for Davidson business is newcomer Signatures, in the Cornelius Holiday Inn. Owner Andrew Kaltsas hopes to attract Davidsonians with a shuttle running from the college to his club for the Tuesday night college nights. Kaltsas guarantees the “best prices in town,” which include a 50 cent draft beer. A live DJ and dance floor serve as additional attractions for Signatures. Kaltsas admits he has not yet had a high Tuesday night turnout, but with increased advertising, he expects that number to grow.

So, as these three businesses try to lure Davidson students with separate Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday night college nights, which do the students prefer? Junior Ashley Atkins says, “the most important thing is if a lot of people are going to be there hanging out, and I wouldn’t complain if they had cheap beer.” She adds, "As it stands, I like Davino’s atmosphere.” That seems to be a popular choice among all Davidson students, as Davino’s college night is currently the most popular among the three.

This suits owner Steve Tonaus fine: "I try to gear my business toward students. I know they’re on budgets, so I try to help them out. I really appreciate their business, and we’re getting more student business other times during the week."

SGA continues to address college's exclusive policies

Trust continued from page 1

Potential situation of a non-Christian running for Alumni board trustees. Jim Fuller '65, a civil rights attorney in Raleigh "proposed that the Board strike its Christian requirement for Alumni trustees," says Brian Tarr, Director of Alumni Relations. Tarr mentioned that because the president and president-elect are ex-officio trustees, they also cannot be on the trustee board. The proposal was to be voted on in the fall meeting of the Alumni board but the lack of support indicated that no vote was necessary.

According to Tarr, there were two other possible routes: to adopt the proposal and face the possibility of electing Alumni trustees who could then not sit on the board due to the trustee's requirement. Or, to direct alumni leaders to ask the trustees to make an exception for the alumni trustees. There was not enough support for either of these options though he mentioned that senior president Jennifer Humphrey, the only student sitting on the Alumni board, spoke supporting Fuller's proposal. Tarr says, "The basic issue is what it means to be a Christian college."

As the alumni becomes more and more..."Diverse, this becomes a practical inclusivity problem,” says Sherburne Laughlin, a member of the alumni board and president of the board when the issue was raised.

Comments from a Trustee

This issue has not come to the Trustees according to Larry Dagenhart, a Charlotte attorney and secretary of the Board of Trustees. He listed three possible arguments addressing the clause requiring church membership. One school of thought might say: Do not change it. “We’re watering down Christianity enough. We’ve already done it with the faculty. We don’t want to be an Amherst or Williams—completely secular.” Another perspective, says Dagenhart, might assert: “Be inclusive. We’re missing good trustees this way. You shouldn’t have to have this rule to preserve our Christian heritage.” The last viewpoint which Dagenhart enumerated involves a compromise: Leave the requirement for the church-approved positions, but eliminate the clause for at-large and alumni members.

The Resolution

The resolution reads: “Whereas, the Davidson Trustee Bylaws state, ‘All persons elected as Trustees shall be active members of a Christian Church’;

“Whereas, This statement excludes valuable members of the Davidson community who wish to become Davidson Trustees;

“Whereas, This statement contradicts Davidson’s commitment to ‘recognizing and appreciating non-Christian traditions,’ as stated in Article VII. B. 14 of the Strategic Planning document;

“Whereas, This statement prohibits the composition of the trustees from reflecting the diversity of the student body, the alumni, or the faculty;

“And whereas it is the consensus of the Student Government Association that the elimination of this statement would affirm Davidson’s Christian heritage rather than threaten it;

The agenda for next week’s Student Government Association meeting includes a proposal for a cigarette machine on campus. Students have been unable to buy cigarettes on campus since the Union stopped selling them a few years ago. Most of the people asked about this issue see no problem with having cigarettes sold on campus. Thad Reece, an avid non-smoker, thinks a cigarette machine is a good idea “as a money-making endeavor.” He wishes the union would sell cigarettes and use those profits to “lower the outrageous prices on everything else.” Smoker Bill Gullan thinks that this will keep people on campus after they have been drinking, which is a dangerous situation. SGA goes for the smoker vote. He says, “Smokers need to be de-stigmatized; it’s a habit, not a personality flaw.” Students feel they should be able to make the choice for themselves and the main effect of not having cigarettes is the inconvenience of going to places like Holiday Inn at four o’clock in the morning for a cigarette. The money from the sale of cigarettes should be able to make money for the school. To many, it does not make any sense to let other places make a profit off all of the college’s smokers. The profits could go to an area of the campus that needs funding. The SGA will be meeting next week; if anyone has a strong feeling one way or the other, they are invited to attend.

Jay Jennings

“Let it be resolved that on this day, October 26, 1993, the Student Government Association encourages the Davidson trustees to eliminate Article 1, 4 of the Trustee Bylaws, ‘All persons elected as Trustees shall be active members of a Christian church.’”

Controversy and Discussion

When Smith first read the resolution and asked for discussion, the Senate remained silent. But once a few comments were made, a long debate followed addressing the concerns of both proponents and opponents to the idea. Alice Spivey, SGA Vice President, expressed her apprehension about removing Christianity from the document. “I’m afraid we’re embarrassed of Davidson’s tradition,” she said. “But this is not the Davidson of 1837,” replied Rafael Candelario, BSC Senator, “If it was, I would not be here, nor would any of the women on this senate.” Some senators suggested changing the wording. Anne Bartholomew suggested “respect of Christian ideals.” Bo Bartholomew, Sophomore President, suggested trustees “uphold honor, integrity, and moral values.” Others thought changing the wording would not convey the strongest statement possible. Smith reminded the senate that the resolution was only encouragement.

Buy a large pizza at regular price, get a small pizza with one item for $2.00!!!

PIZZA SPECIAL! 892-4112 • 892-4114

FREE DELIVERY after 6 pm of entire menu: PIZZA, SUBS, SALADS

Mon-Thur 10am-10pm
Fri-Sat 10am-11pm
Sunday 2-8pm

Located in Sadler Square I-77 Exit 30, Near Davidson College