2 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1993

Adding & Dropping... BPA Poke ar

Around noon on Friday, some students begin the seven-hour wait that has become a semi-annual tradition. Unsatisfied students wait in
the line for drop/add in hopes of improving their spring semester course schedules. The line wrapped twice around the main
Chambers hall and out the doors onto the lawn. Many students still left unhappy. Photo by Casey Rogers

Students promote safe rides program

By Susan Warren

Davidson’s own safe rides program is in the planning stages thanks to Davidson junior Susan Moore. She is in charge
of the committee that feels there is a need for such a program due to students driving under the influence
from off-campus bars or parties. Currently, the program is still in the planning stages. The committee is waiting to receive
information back from the more than 200 surveys which were distributed through Patterson Court houses. The committee hopes to answer
questions such as which nights do people go out the most? How long would people wait for a ride? Would
students use the rides? Is there really a need for such a program?

When the program starts, it will begin with a beeper system, meaning the “driver” will be somewhere on campus and
when his beeper goes off he will go pick up the people needing a ride in his car. The beeper
system will work through the campus security. The students riding will be kept confidential. Bars in Cornelius and Mooresville, the
Pub, Davinos, Backstreet, and off-campus houses are those mentioned thus far as major pick-up points. If there is enough response
with the beeper system, then the committee hopes to turn the project over to the administration. It is possible that
a van would be used and a shuttle system would start, ideally with the Union Activity Van. A van would
be better than a car because Moore is afraid student “drivers” would feel hesitant about using their own vehicle to
pick up a bunch of drunk students. However, due to insurance reasons, the van cannot be used yet. Once the
program gets underway, the committee hopes Patterson Court houses and other student organizations will volunteer for a week with drivers.
The entire process will use students except for the notification from campus security. Moore would like to see the program
start sometime next semester.

"Let's take a stand," says

“Let’s take a stand! Friends don’t let friends drive drunk” is the theme for this December’s National Drunk and Drugged
Driving Prevention Month. North Carolina Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) and the North Carolina Governor’s Highway Safety Program are joining
forces to sponsor this campaign to reduce impaired driving on the state’s highways. Impaired drivers in North Carolina were involved
in 13,089 vehicle crashes in 1992, claiming 534 lives and leaving 13,059 people injured. Nationally, about 17,700 Americans died in
crashes involving drivers and pedestrians impaired by alcohol and other drugs.

“During Drunk and Drugged Driving Prevention Month, we want to call attention to the ongoing tragedy of driving while impaired
(DWI), especially among our young people,” said Joe Parker, Director of the GHSP. “Alcohol-impaired driving is still the number one
cause of death for young people in America.” In the last three years, 731 young drivers aged 15-20 have died
in automobile crashes on North Carolina roads. Of that amount, 143 were involved in alcohol-related crashes. “This means that almost
20 percent of all 15-20 year olds who die in an automobile crash are involved with alcohol,” said Kim Baker,
Executive Director of NC MADD. “In North Carolina, the legal drinking age is 21, so these young people who died
were not even supposed to have access to an alcoholic beverage.”

-National Fact Sheet-
* Approximately 25 percent of fatally injured 15-20 year old drivers were intoxicated (.10 alcohol content or greater).
* More than 43 percent of all 16-20 year olds’ deaths result from motor vehicle crashes. About half of these
fatalities were in alcohol-related crashes. Estimates are that 2,314 persons aged 16-20 died in alcohol-related crashes in 1992.
* The proportion of drivers 15-19 years of age who were involved in fatal crashes and were intoxicated dropped from
28 percent in 1982 to 15 percent in 1992 - the largest decrease of any age group during this time
period. NC MADD
* In single-vehicle fatal crashes occurring on weekend nights in 1992, 73 percent of the fatally injured drivers 25 years
of age or older were intoxicated, as comparedwith 57 percent of drivers under the age of 25. The cost of
alcohol-related crashes to society is $46.1 billion yearly. *Overall, the cost for each injured victim of an alcohol-related crash averages
$68,000. *Of all the people arrested for DUI/DWI nationally in 1990, people in the under-25 age group accounted for 26.1
percent of those in the city, 25.6 percent of those in the suburban counties, and 23.5 percent of those in
rural counties. *While more than one-third or 35.6 percent of the college students surveyed reported to have driven under the
influence, only 1.7 percent said they were arrested. Sources: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 1993; Miller and Blincoe, 1993; FBI,
1992; Core Institute, 1993. North Carolina Mothers Against Drunk Driving.

Larger eating houses to have two SGA votes
By Rachel Dunifon

The Student Senate voted Tuesday night to increase representation for those Patterson Court houses having a large number of members.
In a 16-5 vote, with 4 abstentions, the SGA changed its bylaws, allowing houses with more than twice the membership
as most Patterson Court houses to elect two SGA senators. According to the new bylaws, the average membership of all
Patterson Court houses will be calculated. Any house having more than twice this number of members will elect two senators
to the SGA.

The change was proposed by Junior Class Senator Leigh Rawdon. She cited existing SGA bylaws which state that a house
senator is elected to represent the members of the house, not the house itself. Due to this bylaw, Rawdon believed
it followed that larger houses should have more representation.

Rusk senator Allison Woodward supported the measure. She currently represents about 180 Rusk members on the SGA and finds it
difficult to take in the widely varying opinions of all of her constituents. According to Woodward, the new bylaws simply
put into place something that should have been happening all along. Woodward said: “I don’t see this as a gender
issue. It is just the enactment of something that should have taken place earlier.”

Junior Class President B.J. Rudell opposed the bylaws change. He feels that if the SGA concerns itself with equal representation
on Patterson Court it needs to address the issue within the classes as well, something that could lead to a
domino effect of multiple bylaws changes. Rudell believes that the SGA’s emphasis should be on representation through class senators, and
that having only one representative from each Patterson Court house is enough. He feels that, “the SGA is a student
government association, not a Patterson Court association.” Like Woodward, though, he does not see this as a gender issue, but
one about the make-up of the SGA.

The houses currently affected by this bylaws change are Rusk and Connor. Each of these houses will elect an additional
senator as soon as possible.

Building D gets new name
Rybutti continued from page 1

To recognize the Ryburns’ gift to the college, Davidson plans to name Senior Apartment D in their honor—The Samuel Sharp
and Frances Wimberly Ryburn Dormitory. “I owe a lot to Davidson,” says Ryburn. “If I hadn’t come here, I would
never have met my wife, and meeting her has been worth more than all the money that we’ve been able
to give to the school.”

Ryburn’s philanthropy is well known throughout the Carolinas because of his work with the CROP Walk/Run, a nation-wide, annual hunger-awareness
and fund-raising event for Church World Services. A faithful participant in the walk since 1985, Ryburn has raised over $45,000
in pledges. Thanks to his hard work in soliciting pledges for the event, Charlotte has boasted the most successful CROP
Walk across the nation for the past four years.

Immediately upon his retirement in 1981, Ryburn created The Glass Eye, a photography business “designed to keep me occupied and
out of mischief.” He has traveled extensively in Africa on photography expeditions and is also well-known among friends as a
poet of no mean talent. The Ryburns have been married 52 years; they have three children and three grandchildren.

RARE BOOKS
We BUY, SELL & TRADE BOOKS
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK
892-1884
Mon-Sat: 10am-9pm, Sun: noon-8pm

The Davidsonian
News Editor: Mandy Curtis
Staff Writers: Court McBryde, Rachel Dunifon, Sally Stone, Brett Marston, Mary McCrory, Alice Felmlee, Katherine Hash, Jay Jennings, Krisy Ford,
Ashlyn Dannelly, Martha Knight, Meg Wolff, Susan Warren, Wendy Lee, Carrie Blackburn, Mary Clare Jalonick, Christy Block, Jenny Schroeter, Lexy
Devane, Ross Sloop, Towner Blackstock
