ARTS. MONDAY, MARCH 1, 1993

Students Bring Great Expectations to Stage
By Whitney Jewett

The magic and splendor of Charles Dickens’ fiction is brought to life on stage in the sensational production of Great
Expectations. Dickens evokes in his fiction a spectrum of emotion so vast and encompassing that one might deem it near
impossible to recreate his work on stage. The Davidson production of Great Expectations draws the audience into a world in
which the imagination takes flight atop the looming London fog. One experiences with Pip the exhilaration and frustration of each
conflict he must endure and overcome. Indeed, this performance captures the indescribable spirit of Charles Dickens’ fiction.

The power of prose and performance are joined successfully through the character of Pip, played by Bradley Griffin. Griffin does
a magnificent job of portraying both the young and the older Pip. The older Pip guides the audience through some
changes and transitions, while the younger Pip experiences, as if for the first time, the conflicts set before him. His
bewildered and boyish actions are opposed by the overpowering and frightening Magwitch, played by Ed Cunningham. Cunningham’s portrayal of Dickens’
escaped convict adds life and suspense to the performance. Through the fog, Magwitch is first seen shaking poor Pip over
the grave of his mother and father. Here, the fright and the power evoked are a combination of superb acting,
technique, and sound effects.

Pip’s amiable and devoted friend, played by Edwin Thomas, serves as a constant reminder of the values of true friendship
and innocence. His quiet authenticity adds charm and vitality to the play. Allison Wright, the beautiful and proud Estella, does
a magnificent job portraying a shrunken soul that has been smothered by a gilded facade of finery and gems far
too long. Pip’s infatuation with the celestial Estella is a source of identifiable pain and frustration. One questions the value
of social status when true friends are at risk.

This frustration is also apparent in the withered character of Mrs. Havisham, played by Jennifer Neale. Neale evokes the tremendous
suffering of the scarred Miss Havisham with controlled vibrance and poise. Jaggers, a pompous London lawyer played by Scott Lenhart,
contributes humor and diversity to the performance. Biddy (Amanda Davis), the pure and devoted confidante to Pip, sharply contrasts the
business-like formality of Jaggers. Pumblechook (Jared Floyd) and the Aged Parent (Patrick Brown) are also humorous contrasts to the intensity
of the other characters. The characters of Compeyson (Robert

Film Review ... Untamed Heart Should Stop Beating
By Will Lazenby and Mary McCrory

Some people liked this movie. We don’t know why. We admit, we too were enticed by names like Marisa Tomei
(who was so feisty in “My Cousin Vinny”) and Christian Slater (“Pump up the Volume,” “Young Guns 2,” “Heathers” —
need we say more?). Even the previews looked good. After all, they were set to “Tom’s Diner” (Suzanne Vega) and
it was a movie about a diner. How could they go wrong? But they did.

The movie is about Caroline (Marisa Tomei), a waitress in Jim’s Diner, who never follows through with anything. That’s her
big problem. Christian Slater has a problem, too. For one, he can’t talk for the first half hour of the
movie, but aside from that, he has a diseased heart. Get it? “Untamed?” So everyone has problems, and Tomei and
Slater’s characters fall in love. After he saves her from being raped, he decorates a Christmas tree in a room
without waking her up and plays her some pretty music. There’s the plot (except for the end — we’re not
telling!).

Now the acting. Yuck. Rosie Perez is not as annoying as everyone else in the film. Marisa Tomei cannot seem
to stop making cute giggling noises. If she isn’t doing that, she is making doe eyes at Christian Slater. Christian
Slater can’t finish any of his sentences, and spends a lot of his time looking sheepish. The only acting that
is any good at all is done by two very minor characters, both named Bill. In other words, don’t go
see this unless you want to hear “Tom’s Diner,” or meet Bill and Bill. You will be able to predict
almost everything that happens. This is not a prescription for a good night at the movies. Avoid this one like
the plague. Hated it.Pascal), Clara (Catherine Rivenbark), Herbert (Jonathan Brooks), Wemmick (Glen Laird), and Molly (Jessalyn Wynn), all contribute to
the magical vitality of Great Expectations. The intense devotion that each member of the cast applies to the production is
evident by the immense success in recreating the electricity of Dickens’ fiction on stage. Dr. Rupert Barber, director, and Dr.
Joseph Gardner, scene designer, have created a performance that exceeds the limits of stage production. Indulge in the sensational powers
of the imagination. Great Expectations is a treasure unto itself that should be enjoyed by all. Just a reminder before
you go—be prepared to be immersed in London fog at its worst (the smoke blowers do their job quite well)!

Short Story...

Two All Beef Patties, Special Sauce, Lettuce, Cheese, Pickles, Onions on a Sesame Seed Gerund
By Jonathan Harris

The Burger Barn had two new grammatical problems. One was the way the customers ordered. The other was Billy. Both
had been infused with proper syntax, diction, and even rare displays of style at the start. But billions and billions
had to be served, and rapid ordering and dispatch soon overshadowed grammar-rooted conversations and the importance of structurally correct food
preparation. In fact, neither friendly conversation nor good food mattered to the customers or employees anymore. “Fries, burger, pie” replaced
the traditional but outdated “hello,” and burgers were assembled with so little attention that they were often mistaken for ketchup-covered
fries.

Billy hadn’t always produced the tangle of misplaced condiments that were now accepted occurrences at the Burger Barn, however. In
fact, he had come to the job hoping to author his own original burger style. On his first day at
the Burger Barn, Billy learned how to construct a burger. First, put on the pickles, then the ketchup in three
rings, then some mustard, no, sorry, one ring of mustard, then heat it on two in the microwave and slide
it out through slot five. “You're a good man, Billy,” said his manager. “Keep it up.”

At first, Billy did keep it up. He followed the burger building laws of grammar and style in crafting meals
for the billions and billions. But tomorrow was Sunday. Sunday lunch had always been steady business because the Free Will
Baptist Church was across the street. But recently the Burger Barn had become especially popular to the time-conscious churchgoers. Christian
children squeaked in the swings of the newly constructed Farm Fantasyland while their parents did the same in the just
finished drive-thru.

That Sunday, Billy’s family went to church. “Well, what did you think?” he asked his parents. “About what?” said his
mother. "How was the food?” said Billy. “Oh, about the same, you know,” said his mother. “Yeah, you know,” said
his sister, “pickles and all that.” “Yeah, I know,” said Billy.

That Monday at work, Billy watched a woman pay for an onion tongue-buster he had just made for her. She
zoomed away and ate it with no complaints. Later, Billy experimented with different combinations of vegetables and squeeze-bottle condiments, but
with the same result: no returns. Next, Billy made burgers that looked and tasted better than those his manager had
taught him to make. He washed the vegetables himself and took special care to see that the meat was cooked
perfectly. Still, there was no response.

That Thursday, Billy began to be truly ungrammatical about burgers. On Thursday, he was making sandwiches during a funeral rush—handing
burger after pickle-ketchup-mustard burger after burger to his manager when he realized that no one cared about extraordinarily delicious or
even good sandwiches. The time-saving packaging and the familiarity of the product were all that mattered in the business of
burger crafting. The quality was gobbled down in a matter of seconds, but the package and the idea were what
people wanted anyway. Billy realized that he could have put just about anything between the buns and, as long as
it was wrapped like a burger, it would be accepted as such.

From then on, when he heard “fry, burger, pie” over the drive-thru microphone, Billy matched the grammatical complexity of the
order with a product that skipped over personal attention, as the customer had, and provided a packaged idea ready to
speed home to the kids. Billy’s burgers went to feed the world’s developing brains with over-pickley and too too ketchupy
sandwiches, and the “you are what you eat” theory became heresy.

Are you an artsy type of person? If so, write for Arts. Call Rachel -6064.
