THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, APRIL 5, 1993

HARRISON ROBERTS - Editor in Chief
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Executive Editor
LEIGH RAWDON - Managing Editor
ALICE FELMLEE - News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL - Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor
YVETTE PITA - Special Section Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

MANDY CURTIS - Copy Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist
LAURA DENNIS - Production Manager
BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS - Business Manager
ERIC SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

"Isms" at Davidson

25 years after the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., our nation finds itself still examining the presence of prejudices on a daily basis. Because Davidson, however, has been a predominantly white institution, members of the community seemed to be able to keep these issues at bay. With the recent accusations of racism in the Davidson College Police department and sexism in the Athletic department, though, we have all had to consider what exactly constitutes biased behavior. Indeed, the ongoing Federal trial in the Rodney King case is a prime example of just how difficult this question can be.

The DCPD situation is disturbing because the fact is that white students simply don’t get stopped very often. Merely looking at the numbers seems to indicate that this sort of harassment is a manifestation of racism, but appearances can be deceiving so the question remains: Why do African-Americans get stopped so much more frequently? Unfortunately, many times the only way to determine if incidents are racially or sexually biased is to attempt to find what motivates them. To do this, we must place ourselves in the shoes of the accused—a precarious undertaking, at best. When we charge the Campus Police with racism, we must also consider what attempts they have made in the past to fight racism, and when we charge Terry Holland and the Athletic department with sexism, should we not look at the contribution they have made to Davidson in the form of greatly improved women’s athletics?

Racism and sexism are dangerous words these days, and when used carelessly, they not only can devastate careers and destroy lives, but they cheapen the suffering of victims like those that demonstrated against sexual abuse last week at the Take Back the Night rally. This is not intended to be a call to quell charges of bias, but a reminder of how carefully we must consider before we make accusations. The Davidsonian might even be considered guilty for not taking the responsibility of researching its articles enough. Regardless, we must study accusations of racism and sexism with patience and diligence, and when bias is found, we must act quickly and without hesitation to make it clear that racist and sexist behavior will not be tolerated under any circumstances.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. The Davidsonian requests that letters be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be published. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTERS: Officer Defends Stopping Students

To the editors,

This letter is written in regard to the recent article about racial bias causing harassment of African-Americans by the Campus Police Department. Both students [stopped March 22] are African-American, which in turn raised the suspicion that they were being stopped primarily for that reason. I would like to make you aware of the fact that it was I, Officer S.T. Moore, who stopped these individuals, and make you aware of some of the facts that led to my decision to stop them.

On the night in question, while on routine patrol, I observed two black males walking on Baker Sports Complex Drive, in the direction of Patterson Court. One of the individuals was pushing a bicycle. As I drove by them I looked to see if I could identify either or both of these individuals but neither looked familiar. I then rode a different route around the college in order to further observe their actions. I later observed these indi-Individuals walking down the sidewalk near PKA, traveling in the opposite direction than when I last observed them. At this time I debated whether or not to perform an ID check on them. Being familiar with the sensitivity of African-American students on campus, I felt that I had to be absolutely sure that I did not recognize either of the two. Well, to be perfectly honest, I did not recognize either, so I approached them between Sig Ep and PKA. I asked if they were students, they answered yes. I asked if I could see their student IDs, which they produced without hesitation. Their IDs verified the fact that they were indeed Davidson students. I asked how long they had been at Davidson, and they responded, “since last year.” I explained that I had not recognized them and that was the reason for me stopping them. I then advised them that they would not have to worry about me stopping them again. Actually, there were two reasons that led to my decision to stop Mr. West and Mr. Leak: because I did not recognize them and because they were pushing a bicycle. Some of you may not be aware of the fact that for the past few months we have experienced problems with bicycle thefts. As a general practice while on routine patrol, I am particularly observant of anyone I see with a bike, whether they are riding it, pushing it, or in possession of it.

See Moore on page 7

Davidson Police Answer Criticism

To the editors,

All of the members of your campus police department are very disturbed and concerned over the recent article in The Davidsonian addressing the minority students being stopped by this department. No matter how hard this department works on race relations this topic surfaces at least once a year. It is now and has always been the policy of this department that discrimination by any member will not be tolerated, and all officers are very comfortable with this. At the beginning of each school year, all members of this department attend a social gathering sponsored by the president’s office at the BSC House in order for the officers to become better acquainted with African-American students at Davidson. Unfortunately, even though officers attend this function, they may not remember every student that they were introduced to. Also, every African-American student was not able to attend. All campus police officers are encouraged to acquaint themselves with as many students as possible, and we would like to encourage the students to take the time to get to know the officers as well. There are, however, students on campus who are less visible and less outgoing and therefore are less familiar to officers. It has always been the policy of this department to be very proactive to protect the campus. Statistics indicate that crime is down; number of persons trespassed are up; over 70% of persons trespassed were white; arrests

See DCPD on page 7

Berkey Supports Decreased Load:

To the editors,

Scott Windham’s letter (The Davidsonian, March 8) attacking the reduction in the faculty’s teaching load from 5 1/2 courses per year to 5 is disappointing in its treatment of an issue of such importance to an academic institution like Davidson, not least for its rude language. Underlying the letter, however, is an attitude which, I fear, is fairly widespread. This attitude, which disparages and minimizes the importance of traditional academic research, is popular among those who are mistrustful of elite academic institutions and the excellence upon which they insist. It also sometimes finds acceptance among those who, more justifiably, worry about the state of teaching in our colleges and universities. It is based, however, upon a fundamental misperception of the relationship of research to instruction, and also on a naive understanding of what constitutes good teaching. In the first place, of course, knowledge, at least in those places where knowledge is treasured, does not stand still. Our understanding of the past, or of literature, or of the origin of the universe, or the functioning of the human brain, is constantly in a state of growth and change. Effective and relevant instruction requires that those who would teach stay abreast of developments in their various disciplines,

See Berkey on page 6