THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1993

Carolina colleges adopt unlimited dorm visitation policies

This fall University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill voted on an unrestricted visitation policy; Davidson has not had restrictions
in years.

By Meg Wolff

Moving from a policy of restricted visitation hours, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill recently changed their policy
to give students more freedom. A 24-hour visitation policy was approved by the university. Experiencing problems with co-habitation, Chapel Hill’s
policy defines a guest as “any individual that resides temporarily in a residence hall room or visits a student room
or public area at the invitation of an assigned room resident.” The revised policy limits the guest’s stay to 72
hours. An “excessive or too frequent pattern of visitation” by the guest can result in disciplinary action.

At the beginning of the fall semester, visitation hours were set from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m., Sunday through Thursday,
and 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. on Friday and Saturday. After two weeks, students were asked to choose between three
basic options: maintaining the set visitation hours, having limited guest visitation of 9 p.m. to 1 a.m., Sunday through Thursday
and 24 hours on weekends, or 24-hour visitation. The 24-hour visitation option depends on negotiations between roommates. Students also have
the option to “strengthen these regulations and set visitation hours.” Any option requires a 2/3 vote of the residents of
the hall to pass.

Chapel Hill’s new visitation policy is a break from tradition; however, it is not unique. Other colleges and universities in
North and South Carolina have changed their policies in accordance with a changing age. UNC Charlotte has had basically the
same policy as Carolina’s in effect since 1979. A minor difference is that UNCC’s options require 75% of the students
in an area to vote, and then 75% of the voting number to pass an option for that area. UNCC
also has an option for a minority of students that want restricted visitation, offering 1-2 hours of visitation daily.

Appalachian lets students choose restricted visitation, until 12 a.m. on weeknights and 2 a.m. on weekends, or a 24/7 option.
Scott Ranger in Residence Life at ASU says the program's appeal is to the “Christian element of the alumni and
parents."

Clemson University in South Carolina sets visitation hours as 10 a.m. to 2 a.m. each day until a referendum is
called by 10% of the residents in each area. The visitation hours may then be decreased or eliminated by a
majority vote of the residents. Clemson reserves the right to “alter or terminate the visitation program if the program is
determined by the administration not to be in the best interest of the university.”

At UNCC the administration will also step in if there is a problem. Jackie Simpson at UNCC says, “If there
is a problem they cannot resolve as a group, then we end visitation for them all. Visitation is a privilege,
not a right.”

Of course, Davidson’s policy is an open 24/7 policy. But in the Davidson policy, the rights of the roommate are
paramount, and a roommate has the right to refuse entrance to anyone except for the other person assigned to the
room. Other schools also empower the roommate, including UNCC’s policy which says that the roommate takes precedence over the visitation
policy. Chapel Hill’s new policy also forbids “coercing a roommate into relinquishing rights to privacy, sleep, or study in order
for a host to entertain a guest will not be tolerated at any time, and will...result in disciplinary actions.” Whether
Chapel Hill’s new policy succeeds in preventing cohabitation remains to be seen, as there is a mixed student reaction to
the change in policy. Many students are excited about the new options, but also think that the administration still has
too much control over activities in the hall. Meanwhile, similar policies co-exist peacefully with students and administration at local colleges
and universities.

Baker sauna not in use

Although Baker Sports Complex provides many useful services, one particular room in the building lies barren and useless. A sauna,
built at the request of the football department, has never been used. Ron Morrow, Director of Athletics, cites the problem:
“It’s a safety hazard. You could turn it up to 500 degrees and no one would find your body.” The
facility stands waiting to be used, but it will not be any time in the near future, according to Morrow.
Currently, Baker cannot afford to pay someone to monitor the sauna. Morrow says eventually the sauna facility will be removed
and turned into office space once “we get around to it.”

-Carrie Blackburn

Accelerated Learning Program to enhance students' abilities

Study continued from page 1

Professor Wanda Webb and a member of the counseling center in Chambers 125 on Monday, November 8. “Documentation Not Plagiarism
- How to incorporate secondary resources effectively and smoothly” will be taught by English Professor Shireen Carroll in Chambers 125
on Monday, November 15. Whether or not students are familiar with the topics offered, they are encouraged to come to
any or all of the four classes on a walk-in basis. According to Carroll, the accelerated learning sessions are designed
for “students of all classes, freshmen to seniors, looking for ways to make a good education at Davidson even better
and personally more profitable.” Upperclassmen are encouraged to attend to learn a few new ideas, even though they may already
be proficient in the skill, for they may pick up a few pointers they overlooked. Freshmen who were exposed to
English Composition classes may feel that some of the classes such as the “Library Tips” session will be redundant, yet
the staff is confident that the freshmen will still learn something new.

Sessions similar to these were held last spring. The sessions were informative; however, attendance was poor. These sessions have been
continued due to the demand for a program like this by students, the counseling center, and the Dean of Students'
office. This Accelerated Learning Program will also be offered in the spring with different classes taught by different Davidson professors.
The classes have been compared to similar courses held at other institutions by last year’s coordinator of the program, Carroll.
According to Carroll, the classes were deemed more effective because they were “interesting and dynamic.” When speaking about the classes,
Carroll applauds them saying, “Students here work hard; this advice will make their work more effective.”

RALEIGH M-40
Chrome Moly Frame
Alloy Wheels
Under-Bar Shifting
Quick-Release Wheel and Seat
18 Speed
Gel Seat
REGULAR $349.95 -- SALE PRICE $299.95
FREE 1 YR. MAINT. INCLUDED

170 N. MAIN ST.
MOORESVILLE, NC
Cool Breeze
28115
704-663-8812

Customer Appreciation Month
Copies Limit 500 per Customer, 8 1/2” x 11”, White Bond. Offer Good the Month of October

Quality KONICA Copies
SouthLake Shopping Center
I-77 Exit 28 West
20601 Torrence Chapel Road #104
Davidson, NC 28036
Tel.: 704-892-9760
Fax.: 704-892-7794
Offer redeemable only at participating Mail Boxes Etc. Centers
