10 THE DAVIDSONIAN — MONDAY, APRIL 5, 1993

Movie Review... Point of No Return Doesn't Live Up to Its Predecessor, La Femme Nikita

By Scott McLean

Whew! The pressure of Oscar week now behind us (and I must say it was both exciting and disappointing in some respects, but mainly it was really boring), we are free to get on with this year’s batch of films which may or may not receive nominations next year. The subject of this week’s review is director John Badham’s Point of No Return. This is an Americanization of the French film La Femme Nikita (an excellent picture - I highly recommend it). While this one does not quite live up to its predecessor, it ain’t that bad on its own terms. That’s the important thing, isn’t it?

Bridget Fonda plays Maggie, a drugged-out street waif who gets arrested for homicide when she and her junkie friends get busted during the ill-fated robbery attempt of a pharmacy. She is sentenced to execution, but her death is faked and instead she is drafted by a secret government agency as an assassin. I know it sounds kind of hokey, but trust me here. After a rocky training period during which she is instructed by top agents (Gabriel Byrne and Anne Bancroft) in all manners of espionage, she is released into the real world with the code name “Nina” to be used whenever she is called upon for a “job.”

Reading back over this brief summary I just wrote, the whole concept of this movie sounds incredibly more stupid than I had originally thought. However it sounds though, I found this one highly entertaining anyway. A lot of critics have knocked this remake saying it is just a cheap take-off of the original and Fonda’s apple pie portrayal of Maggie is nowhere near as arresting as Anne Parillaud’s Nikita. ‘Tis true the French film is superior in that it is not only enjoyable to watch but it also stimulates on a cognitive level. The American version can be entertaining to a certain extent as well if viewed with the knowledge that it cannot be as good as the original and you must simply take it for what it is on its own terms. Ooooh, that was deep, wasn’t it?

In any case I don’t think you’ll be disappointed should you decide to take in this flick, but I also suggest that you at some point rent the original which I regard as a must-see. I think you’ll find that at least in this case, the French do it better.

Bumstead Prepares for His Last Column

Matt continued from page 9

where you go, and do what you do, and be who you want to be. But when she burns you again and your phone doesn’t ring - baby, it’s me.” Mary-Chapin Carpenter, “Never Had It So Good.”

“But as I walked in through the doorway, there stood some kind of maitre d’. Well, he looked me up and he looked me down and said, “May I help you, please?” And I said, ‘What'd you do with those swingin’ doors? Where’s the sawdust on the floor? And whose idea was it to hang these ferns? This brand new bar don’t have a single burn! I guess I’m somewhere that I don’t belong - I need a jukebox with a country song.” Doug Stone, “Jukebox with a Country Song.”

“They never spent a night apart; for sixty years she heard him snore. Now they’re in a hospital - in separate beds on different floors. Claire soon lostBagel before passing it along and guarding my orange. After lunch, it was more long crossings against the wind and singing songs like "99 Miles of Water to Camp" to keep our spirits up. It seemed impossible, but it was somehow true that we had only traveled halfway to camp with so much savage struggle and heartbreak, so much water under the canoe and so few bagels inside us. We fought the wind until one in the morning when we finally neared our campsite. Just as we were struggling in the wind, almost out of energy, we hit a sandbar. Anger is seldom admired for its ability to bring twelve people together, but I think that on the sandbar it was only anger that gave us the energy to get around it. Marlys was not angry nor as expressive as the rest of us and led us valiantly around to camp. And then, after the canoes had been unloaded and the tents pitched and the wet clothes changed, there began a chain of events which was to earn Pavilion Key its sinister nickname: Macaroni Key. After several tries, the burner on the Coleman stove was lit and a pot of boiling water was set above it. I sliced up the cheese and arranged the sack of noodles and everyone settled down to wait the few minutes it would take until dinner. Thirty minutes passed. The triumph belonged to those who were content with the product of their long wait. For those few, the beautiful moonrise at three in the morning seemed to reward their effort. The rest were lost in the memory of that dark voice they had heard so long ago in the BP deli. “It was trying to tell us something,” they thought, “we should have slept." Everyone who stayed up cooking swore the next morning that their health had been improved by the macaroni feast and paraded their strength in front of the weaker students. Marlys cooked blueberry pancakes, while others lifted whole handfuls of granola into their mouths. It was a morning for miracles. We could see the sandbar that had trapped us the night before, and off in the bay, there were several dolphins playing in the surf. Sandpipers and pelicans ran up and down the beach while we rested. That day we paddled back to the mainland and upriver. We shared our campsite with students from the Netherlands and Ohio. Dinner was spaghetti and sleep quickly followed. Our final two days were much more relaxed as well. We still fought the wind with apple-butter in one hand and a bagel in the other, but we enjoyed it, knowing that the worst was behind us. No chilling voices pursued us now. Some of us even took a bath in the river. Friday we stopped for good. We cleaned the canoes out and loaded them on the trailer in preparation for our return. While waiting for the other group to arrive at our rendezvous point, we made a goodwill gesture of taking showers and getting on clean clothes. When they did arrive, we embraced them and both groups began swapping stories, each person convinced their struggle was the greatest. The vans were again full of happy students and leaders proven fearless in the heart of the savage Everglades. As the vans headed north, one student remembered something Ed had said which seemed to confirm the other lessons of the Everglades trip. Paddling toward land against a strong wind, Ed had remarked: “The closer you get, the harder it is to move.”

ON THE SCENE | ART ALL WEEK ALL WEEK ALL WEEK MUSIC Mon, Apr. 5 Thur, Apr. 8 Fri, Apr. 9 Apr. 9 & 10 Apr. 7 & 8 Apr. 7 & 9 Thur, Apr. 8 Fri, Apr. 10 Apr. 5-10 SPEAKERS Mon, Apr. 5 Tue, Apr. 6 Thur, Apr. 8 Tue, Apr. 6 Tue-Thur. Wed, Apr. 7 Thur, Apr. 8 Compiled by Rachel Newcomb Mo’ Money - Charlotte. At the Cellar. THEATER/DANCE/MOVIES Afro-American Cultural Center - Charlotte. “More Than Just Something to Keep You Warm,” African American Quilting. Call 374-1565 for more information. Hodges Taylor Gallery - Charlotte. New works on paper by Martie Zelt & Karen Leonard Liles. Call 334-3799 for more info. Student Violin Recital. Ashley Cockrill. 8:15 p.m. Hodson Hall. Traditional & Celtic Music Jam. Charlotte. At the Celtic Trader. Call 332-2358 for more info. Friday Night Live - spring concert series presented by the Meck. Co. Park & Rec dept. at the Marion Diehl Rec. Center. Featuring the Sentimentalists (big band music). Call 527-0237. Call 334-2655. Student productions. The Great American Cheese Sandwich & Reasonable Circulations. Workshop Theatre, Cunningham Fine Arts Building, 7:30 p.m. Film: Paris, Texas. 900 Room. 9:00 p.m. Antony and Cleopatra. Shenandoah Shakespeare Express. 900 Room. 3:30 p.m. Easter Musical Drama. Love Auditorium. 8:00 a.m. The Heidi Chronicles. UNCC. Pulitzer Prize-winning play follows Heidi & her friends from high school in ’65 to adulthood in ’89. Call 547-2599. Dean Rusk Program Speaker - Assistant Secretary of Defense. Morrison Room, 4:00 p.m. Ward Churchill. Noted Native American author speaks on “When Predator Came: An Indigenist View of Native North America since 1492.” 8:15 p.m. 900 Room. Edward Averill. Pittsburgh/Texas Tech. “What is the Philosophical Problem About Colour?” Rare Book Room, 4:30 p.m. Sarah Weddington. Attorney for Jane Roe in the historic Roe vs. Wade. 900 Room, 7:30 p.m. Coffeehouse. 900 Room, 8:30-11:00 a.m. Freshman Writing Awards. R.S. Gwynn, class of ’69, will present awards and read from his poetry. 7:30 p.m. Morrison Room. 21 Year Old Night. 900 Room, 10:30 p.m. Sale in Union Lobby. Richard Kennedy. 9:00-5:00 p.m. CROP Lunch. 900 Room, 11:30-1:30 p.m. Cards Night!! Union Outpost, 10:00 p.m. Chapel Service. Lingle Chapel, 11:30 p.m. Univ. of Lancaster in England. Info meeting. Big Write for Arts. Call Rachel -6064.