THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1993

Committee for Women's Issues to publish female Handbook

By Wendy Lee

The Women’s Issues Committee of the Union Board is currently working on publishing a handbook for Davidson women. The women’s handbook will cover every facet of life for women at Davidson College. Senior Kristin Garris, committee chair, noted that it is to be a “comprehensive source book” that women will “turn to if they have questions.” It will include “basic information that every woman at Davidson should know,” Garris continued.

The hope is to distribute the book to both incoming freshwomen and upperclass women beginning in the fall of 1994 and to update the publication yearly. The book will be printed and bound, like the course catalog. All Davidson women are encouraged to submit their own experiences to the handbook. Letitia Campbell said that “poetry, black and white photos, art, letters, cartoons, and dialogues” are welcome. “We’re open to anything.” She noted that every woman at Davidson has something to contribute. Anonymous submissions may be made by mailing them to P.O. Box 1984, Davidson, putting them in envelopes posted in eating houses and on freshman halls, or slipping them under the door of Cannon 114. When submitting items, women are asked to include their class year.

One section of the handbook will deal with the history of women at Davidson. This section will be included because many are not aware of the historical aspects of the 20 years since women were admitted to Davidson. A second chapter will deal with options Davidson offers to women such as the Women’s Issues Committee, gender studies concentration, varsity and intramural athletics. Also included will be a discussion of Patterson Court and independents' opportunities. It will address the experiences of international women at Davidson and women faculty members.

A health section will discuss services offered by the student health service such as gynecological exams and procedures. It will also discuss sexually transmitted diseases, AIDS, abortion, menstruation, diet, nutrition, eating disorders, body images, and counseling available at Davidson. A list of gynecologists in the area will also be provided in the new book.

A segment of the handbook on sex will address sexual identity and decision making, contraception, and pregnancy. A final chapter will deal with violence against women, rape, and sexual misconduct. Women will be made aware of Davidson’s Rape Awareness Committee. Davidson’s policy on sexual harassment and misconduct and the measures women can take if they are victims will be included. Hot-line numbers for rape crisis centers and instructions on what to do if raped will be outlined. Precautionary measures to prevent rape will be identified.

Anyone interested in helping with the publication of the handbook or submitting material should contact Kristin Garris at -6512.

When drunk, P.S. Ney claimed he was Marshall, shot by French soldiers

Family continued from page 1

months during 1946 he returned to campus to direct the Living Endowment. Davidson’s president at the time, Dr. John Cunningham, lauded him as “one of the ablest and most popular graduates of recent years.” Leaving for study at Harvard, Spencer completed his masters and doctorate degrees. The esteem Dr. Cunningham and Davidson held for Dr. Spencer is evident in his meteoric rise in the academic world. After Harvard he returned to Davidson as an assistant to the president. Only two years later Spencer joined the faculty as a professor of history. The next year, 1954, he became Dean of Students and then in 1955 gained full professorship with the faculty. In 1957 Mary Baldwin College appointed Spencer president of that institution, a position he would hold until 1968.

With the resignation of Dr. Grier Martin from the Davidson College presidency in January, 1968, the trustees started a candidate search for his replacement. In July of that year they elected Dr. Spencer to the position. He assumed it in a time of turmoil and, in his own inaugural words, “chronic dissatisfaction with the status quo.” Immediately Spencer moved to establish advisory commissions to conduct studies into every aspect of the college.

This was the beginning of a time of change perhaps unparalleled in Davidson history. In the next few years, Davidson decided to allow coeducation, implement self-selection for all social groups (including fraternities), and a host of other sweeping changes. The tearing down of elaborate and restrictive rules and their replacement with the Code of Responsibility (1968) occurred. With it came self-scheduled exams (1970-71) and the allowance of alcohol on certain areas of the campus. Relationships between the college and the church fell under study and changed in the early and mid-seventies. The influence of the Presbyterian Church over the college declined as the presbyters came to elect fewer trustees. By 1977 the requirement that the faculty admit only Christians to its ranks fell. These waves of change pushed through a time of intense criticism and dissatisfaction on campus.

5 years ago December 5, 1988 - The Executive Committee and the Athletics Policy Committee of the Board of Trustees recommended that Davidson’s football team drop from NCAA Division I-AA to Division III for the 1989 season. Football players and staff, informed of the decision in an emotional meeting an hour before the press conference, were not pleased by the committee’s decision. In a news analysis of the Trustee’s decision, it was speculated that the change from Division I to Division III would affect the college “well beyond athletics and admissions.”

20 years ago December 7, 1973 - As a result of the board of trustees’ decision to authorize an into areas such as financial aid with a huge housing dilemma. Said Dean of Students Will Terry, “We are fast approaching the time when we’re going to have to decide whether we are going to find the means for additional housing or cut the projected size of the student body.”

40 years ago December 4, 1953 - Twelve Davidson seniors were chosen to represent the college in “Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges.” Conceived in 1934, this recognition of outstanding college and university students selected students “with consideration given to scholarship, leadership and cooperation in edu-Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

cational and extracurricular activities, general citizenship, and promise of future usefulness.” Source: December issues of The Davidsonian. 

- Compiled by Mandy Curtis

Leading to a renewed Davidson with excellence as its goal on every front. Although perhaps idealistic in his vision of the self-selection system, Dr. Spencer succeeded in so many other endeavors for Davidson that he truly can be credited for bringing it into the realm of national prestige among liberal arts colleges. His policies and commission studies, especially those concerning religious affiliation, remain pertinent today. 

So now that everyone has a thumbnail acquaintance with Sam Spencer, let’s find out a bit about this Peter Stuart Ney fellow. In 1840, the trustees of Davidson College appointed three men to create a college seal. Apparently recognizing the noted learning of Ney, a Frenchman and nearby school teacher, they asked him for assistance. According to contemporary accounts, he created the design we use today in just a few minutes, complete with the mottos “Ne Ultra” (nothing higher) and “Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas” (Let learning be cherished where liberty is arisen). The library features a copy of the seal on the wall to the left as you enter the front doors. 

This contribution might seem relatively minor, and it would be if a veil of mystery did not surround Peter Stuart Ney. Apparently, sometimes when he had certain moods or drank too much, he claimed that he was really Marshal Michel Ney, Napoleon’s most able and trusted general, and had escaped France in December 1815 for a new life in America. Many people came to accept that this educated, articulate Frenchman was truly Marshal Ney. After a deathbed confession by Ney, the legend seemed sealed. Yet controversy has continued. 

The Chamber of Peers in Paris had sentenced Marshal Ney to execution by firing squad following his participation in Napoleon’s return from the Isle of Elba, which ended at Waterloo. Ney stood publicly before a firing squad on December 6, 1815, where he fell before their guns. Usually, in military executions, the squad officer fires a pistol shot through the head of the victim after the initial volley (this is called a coup de grace), but in this instance, this did not occur. Immediately following the execution, the body was carried away on a stretcher, under a sheet. Other odd circumstances have led to heated speculation and debate about what really happened; did the squad use blanks while Ney, supported by his military friends, used a bladder of red dye to simulate gunshot wounds? And did he slip away to America to assume a new identity? An honest appraisal of scholarly materials lends doubts to the claims but has not yet thoroughly disproved any of the legends.

Soccer capital of the nation

NCAA continued from page 1

Those unable to make it to the games were able to watch them live across the nation this year. Davidson bought the television rights to the semi-final and championship games from NBC. The games, which were broadcast nationally by Prime Network affiliates, could be seen in this area on Sports South. The long weekend included a variety of other activities related to the Championships including pre-game day activities for the teams, a Richardson Field walk-through, practices on the varsity field, and press conferences, a welcoming Championship Banquet in Baker Sports Complex, awards ceremonies, and a soccer clinic for youth. The Youth Education in Sports (YES) Soccer Clinic was sponsored by the NCAA and run by eight coaches and players from across the country with the help of Davidson’s men and women’s soccer teams. 

According to Ryan Harper, Marketing and Promotions Intern, the hectic schedule of events ran smoothly largely due to the semester-long careful planning and coordination efforts of Mr. Emil Parker and the Sports Information Department and Mr. Tom Sorboro and the Marketing and Promotions Department. Other preparations included the Davidson Grounds Crew’s hard work to get Richardson Field in top condition. Since Davidson’s last football game, the crew removed all football lines, rolled and flattened the field.

In the meantime, we can enjoy the mystery and the wooden bust of the Marshal, located in the Davidsoniana Room of the Library. With all this talk of history, I must put in a plug for the Fall edition of the Davidson Journal. The article on coeducation gives an excellent history of the role of women at Davidson and gives some fabulous details. But if you get tired of the huzzah about women, the article by Jack Perry on “The Southernness of Davidson College” (p. 6) and the story on William Ferris ‘64, the director of the University of Mississippi’s Center for the Study of Southern Culture (p. 44), offer an interesting perspective.

But that’s not all. This issue offers a treasure chest of historical knowledge. Ever wondered about that low plaque by the magnolia between Duke and the Library? Its story, and that of the South and North Barracks (1920-1945) is on page 55. The class notes have some fabulous stories too, especially the football tale leading off the Class of ‘48 notes (p. 56). To me, the Journal is an affirmation of Davidson as a family, with old relatives, distant cousins, reunions twice a year, and some wild histories, some real and some imagined. I hope that everyone knows a bit more about Sam Spencer and P. S. Ney now, and that you’ll try to get in touch with our Davidson Family this week by procrastinating with the Journal. 

In conclusion, I must apologize for ending on a sad note, but every family, even Davidson, has its losses. On June 26 of this year, William James “Dick” Richards ‘23 of Concord passed ad astra. I will always remember him as a most loyal Davidsonian and fraternity brother who gave generously in finances and service to the things he loved, and he dearly loved this college. I dedicate this article to him. 

Resources used for this article include Mary D. Beaty’s A History of Davidson College, The Davidson Journal (Fall 1993), Scholarship and Legend: William Henry Hoyt’s research on the Ney Controversy by George V. Taylor, and Toby Giese’s Napoleon’s Traitor: The Masons and Marshal Ney’s Mysterious Escape.