Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1993 11

Movie Review: Scott McLean

The summer movies had an "I wish I hadn't" feel

Before I get down to the nitty gritty of this week’s article, first let me say that I hope that everyone had a great summer. I myself spent two months out of the country, after which time I was eager to come home, have a Whopper, and watch some good ol’ American movies at the local cineplex. After seeing what the summer had to offer film-wise, however, I wished I had done an extended stint abroad. Don’t get me wrong now, because I enjoy seeing dinosaurs run across the screen as much as the next person, but virtually every cinematic experience I had this summer ended up putting me to sleep.

In this bumper crop o’ crap as I refer to it, there were a few jewels here and there which actually managed to maintain your interest through the entire picture and so in lieu of a detailed critique of any one film, I thought I’d just list a few that I enjoyed this summer.

On the action/adventure scene, “In the Line of Fire” is a highly recommended flick. Clint Eastwood, coming off the enormous success of his multi-Oscar winning film “Unforgiven,” stars as an aging Secret Service agent determined to stop a psycho ex-CIA hitman (played superbly by John Malkovich) from assassinating the president. This one is a definite thumbs up. Also, you might want to check out Sly Stallone’s “Cliffhanger,” although by now you'll probably have to wait for it to come out on video. Though a lot of the acting is for the birds, the action is non-stop and the scenery is absolutely spectacular.

In terms of dramas, two films from this summer stand out in my mind. First, there is the biography pic “What’s Love Got to Do With It” which chronicles the life of rocker Tina Turner. Actress Angela Bassett is first rate as Tina and in the concert scenes she captures Turner’s energy and showmanship so well that it’s almost eerie. Look for this one on video in the next couple of months. The other excellent dramatic movie of the summer, which I feel got knocked undeservedly, was director John Singleton’s sophomore effort “Poetic Justice.” Having been nominated for an Academy Award for his first film, “Boyz in the Hood,” Singleton perhaps set himself up for the negative criticism that “Poetic Justice” received. In any case the movie centers on Justice (Janet Jackson), a hairdresser from south central Los Angeles who deals with the pain in her life through her poetry (written for the picture by Maya Angelou). A consumer warning though: if you go in expecting another “Boyz...” then you'll be disappointed because the film tackles other aspects of living in South Central. With that being said though, I’m sure you'll find it to be an enjoyable little flick.

Y’all have a great semester and I’ll see you at the movies!

Organizers Center continued from page 10

building beautifully fits what we wanted to happen in the program.” Art History professor Nina Serebrennikov seconds this notion. After leaving the inadequate and crowded facilities on Oak Row, she says Davidson professors can now “teach art history better than any place in the country.” Increased space, high-tech lenses on slide projectors, and the use of videos and CD players offer professors much greater flexibility in their teaching. Additionally, new classes, such as sculpture, are now available to students for the first time. In addition to having great technical advantages, Serebrennikov reminds others that the building itself is also a work of art. Like sculpture by Michelangelo, she believes this building is also the top of its genre. “To actually have a building like this and

---"To live in it is remarkable.” 

Arts center will boost community

Senior Art History major Molly Johnson is still getting used to the dramatic move from having nothing to suddenly being able to work in a facility that is on the cutting edge of technology and architecture. She believes the new center, with its large windows and airy feel, will artistically inspire many students. Additionally, she says the building itself could be studied as a part of a modern architecture class.

Jackson sees the Visual Arts Center as attracting students with more targeted interests in the visual arts, allowing for the expansion of Davidson’s Art Department. Still, he also believes that the facility will benefit the Davidson community as a whole. The center’s two large galleries make exhibitions more available for the public to enjoy. A faculty exhibition will be held Sept. 10-Oct. 31. On November 6, artists Kenneth Noland and Tommie Robinson will be on campus for the opening of their exhibitions. Visitors and students can also enjoy the Rodin sculpture, donated by the Pepper family, permanently placed in the center’s atrium.

The Visual Arts Center also contains a lounge, open 24-hours a day. This offers a pleasant change for students used to studying in the orange and chartreuse surroundings of the library. Jackson hopes that the building will speak for itself for the whole community. “Everyone should be proud of it and feel like it is theirs.”

Radiohead Offers More

Bands continued from page 10

Vig (semi-famous since producing Nirvana’s “Nevermind”) and singer/guitarist Billy Corgan, who again exaggerate the changes between mellow passages and the funky rock and roll in a way that could probably never be duplicated live. Only musicians as talented as these four play such a mixed bag of sounds so flawlessly. Corgan’s voice, like James Iha’s guitar, alternates between a seductive whisper to a howl. And, as with their first album, the songs’ individual parts move along as a cohesive unit like a good Pink Floyd song. Radiohead, like the Pumpkins, draws attention to itself through the extremes of rock and roll. Anyone who has listened to their single “Creep,” with its sudden, jarring guitar chops (“I wish I was special...”) understands what the element of surprise can do to a song.

This English band, unknown to America only three months ago and still relatively obscure in their own country, base their sound mostly on loud, crunchy guitars that come in and out of songs. But, like the Velvet Underground (surely one of the band’s influences), Radiohead has something to offer under the distortion — carefully made songs. Each song on their album, “Pablo Honey,” is crammed with melodies and Thom Yorke sings each song like “Creep” — with sincere intensity. In a way, the newcomers in Radiohead offer the best of what sophomores Matthew Sweet and the Smashing Pumpkins are known for — catchy melodies and surprises. Still, all three make fine music and can expect more success.

Study Skills
- Time management
- Stress management
- Sexuality
- Relationships

Want Help? We’re Here.

DAVIDSON

- Family issues
- Eating disorders
- Depression
- Anxiety
- Alcohol & substance abuse

DeWitt Crosby, Ph.D.
Nance Longworth, MSRC
David Staton, Ph.D., Director

STUDENT COUNSELING CENTER at the Student Health Facility - Call Ext. 2451 for appointment

Art Flagg, Ph.D.
Christine Davidson, B.A., Receptionist/Secretary

Artsy? Write for Arts!

Sounds Familiar

912 Highway 29
Harris Blvd.
Highway 49
UNCC

Selections for all music lovers:
Voted BEST RECORD STORE in Charlotte
CL Critics Choice

STOREWIDE SALE

Most TAPES — Sell & Trade
We Buy Used CD's

Sounds Familiar
8927 J.M. Keynes Dr. Suite 200
Charlotte, NC 28262
(704) 547-8695
Jen Johnson, Manager