THE DAVIDSONIAN — OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1993

A Few Last Words... Unless Something Really Big Happens

When I first began writing this column, I was asked to write mostly for a freshman audience. I was a
little unsure about the overall tenor I wanted to project. While I felt a real need to discuss aspects of
the College deserving of scrutiny, I wanted to avoid the negativity that is the hallmark of too many publications of
all kinds. Another fear, and one which proved to be unfounded, was that I would run out of things to
discuss. A person could make a life-long career out of responding to the events which transpire on this campus. I
guess I expected a lot of things when I began writing for this paper—some of those expectations have come to
fruition and others have not.

I’ve always tried to focus on the things with which I was involved, and perhaps one thing I did not
expect was my eventual tiring of wanting to discuss those things at all. After serving on committees searching for answers
to inflammatory questions—issues like the alcohol policy, or race and gender relations, or the direction of Patterson Court, or admissions
recruiting goals, or more broadly, just how much influence college authorities ought to have over their students in the early
1990s—well, after all that, I’ve decided that I’ve said my piece. It’s time for another perspective, for someone else to
write about the issues facing Davidson students, and I have a feeling Alex Crumbley will do that and more. The
transition in the Editorial Board provides a good jumping-off place for me. In this last column, I am taking advantage
of one last chance to go on the record on a few disparate issues.

On Patterson Court: Last week, Kirby Shealy wrote in Deep Thoughts his belief that Patterson Court ought to remove itself
from the business of food service. The houses on the Court would exist as many fraternities and sororities across the
nation do—as social clubs. Parties, service projects, and overall intra-house interaction would remain unchanged, but students would eat with other
students, regardless of social affiliation. I think it’s a wonderful idea, and one whose time has come, for it affords
students the opportunity to socialize with friends who may not share the same social affiliation, much less the same gender.
And for those who want to eat en masse with their brothers or fellow eating house members, a Commons-type atmosphere
provides ample right and room to do so. To that end, I don’t buy the argument that house unity would
suffer; rather, as Kirby pointed out, houses potentially would have to deal less with apathy and rampant absences from meetings.
Kirby is on to a good idea, and one with which most house members would probably agree, except for maybe
the sophomore members of houses, for whom everything is new and wonderful. It seems patently obvious to me that Patterson
Court needs to try something new. I need only point to the standing room success stories of Back Street and
the Pub to demonstrate that the Court is no longer the pre-eminent social attraction at Davidson, which it undeniably was
my freshman and sophomore years. The idea Kirby articulated last week is at least worth considering, and if it’s wrong
in the minds of a majority of students, I hope someone else will publish another innovative idea.

On Religion: Last year, I wrote in one of these columns that DCPC failed to attract many College students. I
was on the CCRL at the time, and I’ve always regretted not making that belief more of an issue. In
my mind, an 11:00 a.m. church service for which people are expected to dress up is not much of an
alternative to sleeping late and driving to...

See "Spain" on page 9

In Black and White... What Constitutes Being

Pretend you’re a stranger on campus and you’re people-watching in the Union. You see two groups: the members of one
group are all white, except for one who is black. The black person, by his clothing, manner of speech, and
interests, seems to fit in with the rest of the group. The members of the second group are all black.
Is your reaction to the black person in the mostly-white group different from your reaction to the black people in
the all-black group? The goal of this scenario is to bring up the question of what constitutes being black.

Scott Windham & Deidre Montague

Black ties, Black people who hate rap, can’t dance and whose idols are U2 are seen as not totally black
by blacks and whites alike. Those who go to a predominantly white college run into conflict and doubt from friends
at home. Black people who hang out with mostly white people are regarded differently from those who hang out with
mostly black people. White people who love rap, can dance well, and would shoot all members of U2 on sight
are received with surprise. It’s more than a general matter of skin, hair, and eye color, more than racial identity;
it’s a general cultural identity. However, there are many traditions within the black culture and no single black person practices
them all. You’ll find different types of black people who listen to different types of music, eat different types of
food, and speak different dialects. Not all of them are going to hang out exclusively with black people. The problem
is that people in general, including Davidson folks, often treat this question as a simple matter of skin color, identifying
a person’s race with a specific culture. If you’re black, you’re...expected to act black. If you’re white, you’re expected to
act white. People who don’t fit these general expectations are treated as odd. Even though many white people, in feeble
attempts at dancing, are largely incapable of more than a honky-esque jumping up and down in approximate correlation to the
beat, and even though many black people would kick sand in Willie

See "B&W" on page 8

‘Give me a break! Guilty Before Proven Innocent!
By Marilyn Ambroise

What does the judiciary system have to offer African-Americans? For many, namely, African-Americans, this is not a rhetorical question. Upon
the results of several cases that involved African-Americans, chaos evolved about the justice system. African-Americans are not really sure about
what the justice system has to offer them. Yes, of course, African-Americans are educated, too! They know what is stated
in the United States Constitution. Still, what is stated in the Constitution and what occurs in the courts are in
direct opposition with each other.

When the United States Constitution was written, it was not written with the equal consideration of African-Americans. Indeed, the words
were chosen very carefully by the forefathers of this country to suggest the inclusion of African-Americans, but past and current
evidence has shown otherwise. Yet another example is the “The Pledge of Allegiance” which reads, “I pledge allegiance to the
flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible,
with liberty and justice for all.” Liberty and justice for all? Who are we trying to fool here?! Were African-Americans
free then and better yet, are they free today? Is there really justice for all or does the word “justice”
imply “just us”?

Caucasian Americans? Ideally, I would like to answer “yes” to the former serious questions, but realistically, I cannot. The most
recent and national evidence that I have to support my argument is the Rodney King incident. In this situation, (for
those of you who don’t know), an African-American was beaten by Caucasian policemen who claim that there was no alternative
to the beating. The beating was video-taped by a Samaritan, and for months you could not escape viewing it. The
tape (81 seconds long) showed several Caucasian policemen beating a handcuffed African-American male. When the case went to court, the
policemen were acquitted. Of course, there were many Caucasian males and females who tried to justify the verdict. I am
not surprised because these are the same individuals who warn their children of “big black men.” And these are the
same type of people who were on the jury. The only thing is that they were not selected for jury
duty. My point is that just because we have a constitution that uses idealistic words, and a justice system that
is set up in an idealistic fashion, does not guarantee African-Americans anything. Keep in mind that the judge in the
case was a person before he became a judge; the jurors were people before they were appointed as jurors; the
po-

See "Ambroise" on page 9

what it would be to have homosexuals in our military. I was going to say the housing and bathing facilities.
I was sure that the backbone of the services, the enlisted males, would never accept gays into their units, because
it would break tradition and decrease unit pride and morale. But then I remembered something I had heard years ago.
I was transported back to first grade, Shorecrest School, 1980. I recalled lots of voices, reciting in unison: “I pledge
allegiance to the flag, of the United States of America . . . one country ... indivisible . . .
with liberty and justice for all.” For all. Period. Remember the pledge? It’s what most of us were brought up
saying. It’s what we learned, and it seems like it’s what we’ve forgotten. Not just for whites or blacks. Not
just for males or females. Not just for heterosexuals. For all. So I can’t tell you that we shouldn’t have
homosexuals in our military. It doesn’t make sense. Equality and freedom are two of the things that America stands for.
These are two things we have fought for. If there is any organization that should embody these two ideals, it
is our military. We’ve already gone through this once. Now blacks are in every branch of the military, and have
proven to fight just as well as any white person. Granted, color is a very different issue than sexual orientation.
But there is still a prejudice against homosexuals, just like there was, (and to some degree, still is), against blacks,
that shouldn’t be there. Racism is a problem that we have dealt with and are still dealing with. Our nation
has grown up a lot since the times of slavery. Now we have a more complex problem. But we are
a more sophisticated, educated nation, better equipped to handle this ordeal. Letting admitted homosexuals into the military will not be
easy. There is going to be a lot of internal strife and conflict over this issue. People aren’t going to
like it. There will be harassment and hazing. Regardless, homosexuals should be allowed to join the ranks of our military.
Anyone, black or white, male or female, straight or gay, who has the desire to serve in defense of his
or her country should have that opportunity.
