6 : THE DAVIDSONIAN ELECTION '93
Monday, January 25, 1993

Rudell
Continued from page 5

Applications for next year’s freshman class thus far, less than 5% (89) are minorities. The SGA will be working next term with the Admissions Office to find ways to attract a more diverse student body. Davidson is an institution stressing schooling of the highest degree. This education must go beyond the walls of our classrooms and inside the walls of our dorm rooms. Let us move beyond the close-mindedness of our past and into an Age of Acceptance. Diversity offers perspectives no amount of intelligence can ever conceive. We have more to learn from our fellow students than from the textbooks we hold so dear.

Re-establish the SGA as a powerful voice of the students: The SGA should not be afraid to be a reactionary force against harmful measures promoted by the Administration. Last year, the Trustees ordered the Baker Sports Complex to “remain open from 7 a.m. until 12 midnight seven days a week.” And yet, the Baker Sports administrators have refused to comply, keeping the gym closed on Friday and Saturday nights. The SGA should take this cold response as a personal slap in the face, and must pool its energies in combating such unjust decisions. Similarly, why are items in the Union Outpost more expensive than the same items found in the Student Union? Since both establishments are run by the same person, why should one Union be making a greater profit than the other? Maybe it’s just me, but I don’t like being cheated out of rights that have already been granted.

I have worked with both presidential candidates in Student Government for the past two years, and I look forward to teaming up with either of them over the next year. I have enjoyed working with the other SGA members as well, for whom I have great respect. As Vice President, I plan to establish a strong work ethic among the body. A former SGA President once stated that Student Government is more than just a part-time job, to be abandoned once the meeting is adjourned. I continue to carry these words with me, and I wish to instill them in the hearts and minds of my colleagues.

As a class senator for the past two years, I have tried to serve my constituents to the best of my ability. Doing anything half-heartedly is a crime; if you’re not going to put in 100%, then you should leave the job to somebody else who will. I have made every effort to effectively represent the students, whether by seeking public opinion on issues, or by contesting policies detrimental to their welfare. I am not running for Vice President to fill a line on my resume: Being a class senator is something I have enjoyed and pursued diligently. But in such a capacity, my ability to protect the interests of all students has been limited. I now wish to play a more important role in increasing the power of the student body by granting you increased influence in the decisions that guide your lives. No one would be running without the necessary time, motivation, or pledged commitment to perform the duties expected of them. However, I refuse to simply settle for doing what is expected of me. I choose, instead, to go one step further and do what I expect of myself. There is no greater challenge, and there is no other responsibility I more willingly accept.

Humphrey
Continued from page 4

Groups and have slowly turned my focus to the SGA. I have already demonstrated my commitment to the students by faithfully representing them at committee meetings. You can’t do anything for the students if you are not there. My time is not split between different interests that may conflict with my ability to be an effective president. I welcome large tasks and am ready to roll up my sleeves and get to work. I’ve heard the students, and I want to prove that the SGA can do great things for you.

Baker
Continued from page 2

Take advantage of the later hours. Whether or not these new hours will become permanent is largely up to the level of student use. Price said the position of the Athletic department right now is, “show me.” He emphasized that the athletic department is happy to meet student needs, but students must prove that there is a real need during this semester. Price explained that keeping the building open to midnight involves more than paying a few people to stay a couple of hours later because the Athletic Department is forced to add an extra shift of workers. The building cannot be left unattended because of the liability involved. In addition to expanding its hours, the Athletic Department is looking to develop athletic programs for Friday and Saturday night. Judy Krenzer, assistant director of physical education, is heading up the new programs, but Price said they are open to any student suggestions. Price praised his staff for their commitment and willingness to work hard. The athletic staff, he said, is a small group of people who have been forced to work “a lot of man hours.” In addition to expanding the operating hours of Baker, Davidson’s hosting of the NCAA soccer Final Four required extra work of the staff while they also performed their normal duties.

Spivey
Continued from page 5

Just “in name only” committees. Also, the committee heads should meet with and report to the VP on a regular basis about the efforts of their committee. Likewise, the Trustee Contact Committee needs to require trustee contacts to write their trustee at least once a month concerning specified student issues because the trustees have the power of voting for issues concerning us! I would also want the Rides Committee to put together a standard shuttle system to and from the airport over breaks. The VP also has a big role with the Committee on Minority Affairs. I would like to see more attention paid to Davidson’s International students. We have no place for International students to congregate. I would like to plan events at the Union Outpost for Internationals and let them become more involved. The VP also serves on the Council on Intercollegiate Athletics. With determination, we can push for longer hours at Baker Sports Complex. Furthermore, there are plans to make Johnson Gym the new student Union, but in the meantime, we need to bring life back to the gym. Also, I know of the turmoil over keeping our football team with the new Division regulations. I would work for the football team or any other team to represent their aspirations. Currently, I am in charge of the Student/Faculty Roundtables which join students and faculty in discussion on certain issues. I would like to make these an established part of Davidson’s schedule and plan to have three a semester in hopes to improve the relationship between students and faculty outside of the classroom.classroom. Finally, I would like to continue my involvement with the Council on Academic Affairs. We are making positive headway on the school calendar, drop/add changes, changing graduation with honors requirements, and course selection.

3. I believe that a good working relationship and mutual respect is necessary between the President and Vice President because they work so closely on issues and must remain a united front. I have formed friendships and served on SGA with both Alden and Jennifer since Freshman year. Jennifer and I currently serve as co-chairs on the Council on Academic Affairs and have worked closely to accomplish the changes we feel students want. I could work extremely well with either candidate and know we would be able to serve as a team. I believe that camaraderie among the SGA members is also vital. I would want a retreat each semester to acquaint the SGA members with each other and to focus on the SGA’s true purpose: representing the student body of Davidson. I also feel I have encountered many capable leaders through work on my extracurricular activities and feel that I am prepared to appoint highly qualified chairpersons for the committees for which the VP is responsible. Also, I feel that the SGA should write an “SGA Overview” to be produced each month and given to each student so that they will be informed of the major issues, different ways they can be involved, and who to contact.

4. I have already begun much work in the SGA this year (mentioned in question 1 and 2) that needs to be finished, and I feel that as Vice President I have a much better opportunity to fulfill goals that will benefit the students. I believe that dedication, determination, and much experience are the only ways to make major accomplishments. I have been preparing for this job since Freshman year and I want to be VP because I know that with experience and good relations with students and faculty, I can motivate the SGA to really work for the students. Also, I believe that as a Junior, I have more insight into how things used to be at Davidson, so I can identify with students’ concern with the changes.

Brackbill Continued from page 5

sions, parties have been closed down altogether by alcohol monitors for no apparent reason. This again leaves people with the problem of looking for something to do. I think it is a reasonable and desirable goal to return to last year’s policy regarding the shutdown times for parties. These are two logistical changes that could be made without any major changes to the policy regarding objective or enforcement, and I think they would significantly improve the social situation at Davidson.

One of the first, and perhaps most significant, things that the President and Vice President do is to appoint committee chairs for the upcoming year. It is imperative to select competent people for these positions because the committee chairs can make the difference between a productive, well-motivated group and one that accomplishes little. I would like to sit down with the President, and eventually with the committee chairs, and outline and prioritize our objectives. From this agenda, and through the work of committees, we will arrange discussions with the faculty, administration, and trustees, as well as open forums for the student body, in order to discuss issues and receive input. We will have structure as to the topics that need to be addressed, but we will not be so rigid that we cannot make time for new issues that may arise over the course of the year.

I want to have an opportunity to help make some significant changes in life at Davidson. I have some good ideas regarding the ways we can go about making these changes, and I am willing to listen to ideas from others. My biggest concern is the need for improved communication between the SGA and the student body. People have said this before, but I am serious about it. If you go and look at the SGA bulletin board in Chambers, you will see that the minutes that are posted are dated October 16, 1992. I will improve upon this lack of communications as well. I know that few people take the time to stop in the hall and read this admittedly intimidating page of minutes. I would like to start posting “SGA News Bytes” highlighting the major issues with a terse description of news regarding that issue. I am almost sorry that we need to resort to this sort of “USA Today” method of communication, but realistically speaking, I think that it is the only way that we might combat some of the general unawareness that is rather prevalent on this campus.

I strongly believe that by letting people know more about the problems the SGA is working on, people will be encouraged to get involved themselves. This may involve coming to the SGA meetings in person or just making their opinions known to a member of the SGA. This is why I most want to be on the SGA. I have some good ideas for things that we might do to improve life at Davidson. I am sure there will be lots of people with good ideas on the SGA. If we can get the whole campus involved in the issues at hand, then surely we can solve any problem with which we are faced.

Smith Continued from page 4

a sense, the SGA President’s ability to motivate and mobilize his or her 32 senators is more important than his or her own opinions. At the same time, the President’s personal vision of what is important is a factor, especially in regard to molding the underlying theme of the SGA agenda. My personal agenda, while it may be different from some concerns such as minus grades, is not inconsistent with these concerns. I can actively pursue both my personal agenda and the other concerns of the senators.

4. My desire to be SGA President was sparked by my interest in diversity. If I wanted to concentrate my personal agenda on other issues such as exam days or the alcohol policy, I would be running for Senior Class President instead. Any senator can pursue these latter issues, but only the SGA President can address the trustees as a group in order to communicate how the students feel when it comes to diversity and inclusiveness. Jen and I would both be good SGA leaders when it comes to working with an SGA agenda that the senators define. We both have plenty of experience and are capable of running effective SEC and SGA meetings. It is our personal agendas which may be a little different. I encourage you to vote upon your interests in our primary concerns and goals. I want to attempt something that only the SGA President has the leverage to accomplish. Give me the chance and I will deliver.