THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1993 15

"Flustered" Hockey ends week with a win

By Nancy Hilles

Last week the Davidson field hockey team had three challenging games against Duke University, Kent State, and Wake Forest. The
Wildcats were considered the underdog in each game, never having beaten Duke, and last season they lost to Kent State
2-0. Davidson ended 1-2 at the week’s end, losing to the Blue Devils 4-0, beating Kent 1-0, and losing to
Wake 1-0.

Although the Wildcats were outplayed by a stronger, better-skilled Duke team on Wednesday, September 15, the game was a good
learning experience for Davidson, according to team members. They held the Blue Devils to a score of 1-0 at the
end of the first half. Early in the game, Davidson had to alter its defensive strategy and instead of covering
spaces on the field, the Cats were forced to mark up on individual players at all times. The Wildcats made
this transition well, but they had a difficult time shifting the ball to their offensive end of the field. In
the last fifteen minutes of the game, however, the Cats had a spark of offensive energy and had several breakaways,
including Nicole Ficeto’s rush on the Duke goalie which almost ended up in a goal.

After the game, Coach Pryor told the team that she was proud of their persistent efforts and determined spirit. No
matter what the scoreboard read, the Wildcats never gave up and continued to play with heart. Even with the loss,
Coach Pryor was positive: “This game has shown me what the team needs to work on. It really was a
learning experience and I think we can use that to our advantage.”

The victory over Kent State on Saturday, September 18 was a big win for the Cats. Missy Potts scored in
the first five minutes of the game with a hard shot on goal. That gave the team a lift from
the start. The team played defensively as Kent State tried to make a comeback. Emily Coleman had some key saves
and Davidson’s defense managed to hold them off. According to team members, Kent State was extremely physical. Despite their roughness,
the Cats maintained their cool.

On Sunday, September 19, the Wildcats fell 1-0 to Wake’s young and skilled team. From the beginning, Wake set the
pace for the game with the Cats reacting to them. According to players, they got “flustered;” instead of playing their
small passing game, the Cats were using big hits to try to get the ball up the field. Right center
back Jill Bennett had a great save at the goal line when a ball deflected off of goalie Emily Coleman’s
pads. Defender Erin Lang also had a good game.

Cat Nips
A quick, inside look around campus sports

By Robert Lloyd-Still and Peter Amidon

Unfinished Business was finally finished on Thursday night with Davidson’s 1-0 victory. Who came up with that Unfinished Business idea
anyway? Could it be coach Slagle? Well, at least 1,800 people showed up to see the game. Now that our
soccer games are receiving hype like this, isn’t it time that the same be done for the football and basketball
teams?

Give Neal Andrews credit for his performance Thursday night. All he did in replacing Alex Deegan was hold UNCC to
no goals and make three tremendous saves. Andrews, like so many athletes, only needed a chance and he prevailed with
the opportunity.

Great win for the Cats on Saturday and we love theUniforms. We would like to see, however, a black, Clemson-like
paw on the helmet instead of the "cats." We liked the Howell-Holzworth combo in the backfield, but couldn’t they disguise
it a little better? Rhodes keyed on it and stuffed them two plays in a row.

We have some questions about the semiformal attire at football games. If you are going to wear a tie, there
should at least be cocktail parties. We question groups of guys at football games with ties and no dates. Besides
all that, a football game is a place for face paint and bare chests, not ties.

What the heck is going on with Baker? It now closes at ten o’clock, instead of the promised closing hour
of midnight. We thought with the new alcohol policy that Baker would be opened longer. Some of us really benefited
from those extra hours. Instead of sitting around drinking at night, we were able to go and play basketball for
two hours. Now we will have to return to our old ways.

What happened with Will Neville at the volleyball game against UNC on Tuesday night? Neville’s crucial call in favor of
UNC gave them the victory. The Lady Cats played extraordinarily well, and the outcome did not deserve to fall in
Neville’s hand.

Some random thoughts: Wouldn’t it be nice to see a Saturday night football game under the lights? What is going
on with Covington National? What is the situation with the aerated greens? Why can’t that water cooler on the first
hole ever be filled? For four years there have been paper cups out there, but no water. Will those greens
ever return to championship form? Why can’t the par four number two hole be divided into two, thus saving all
those balls from flying at WDAV? Why does Lloyd-Still’s IMAC flickerball teams always have to play on field #4 with
no lines or spectators? What is the situation with the outdoor basketball court? Why is there a light pole in
the middle of one of the courts and on the other side, why can’t that big oak tree be trimmed
so we can get some shots off? Hell, Baker’s never open.

Look for a JV baseball team at Davidson soon. Over twenty freshmen came for fall practices this season. How about
Andy Paul in the Milwaukee Brewers organization this past summer? He posted some impressive numbers in Class A Beloit. Finally,
we would like to congratulate sports marketing for the television contract.

Classifieds

EARN $500-$1,000 WEEKLY stuffing envelopes. For details, rush $1.00 with SASE to: Group Five, 57 Greentree Dr., Suite 307, Dover,
DE 19901.

The Record Exchange is now hiring for both full and part-time positions. Apply in person at 5401 S. Blvd., Tyvola
Mall—No phone calls.

Earn $2,500 and Free Spring Break Trips! Sell only 8 trips and you go FREE! Best trips and prices! Bahamas,
Cancun, Jamaica, Panama City! 1-800-678-6386.
