SPORTS 14 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1993

Field Hockey takes 4th consecutive Deep South tournament title
By Nancy Hilles

BACK-TO-BACK-TO-BACK-TO-BACK! There you have it. That’s right, four in a row. Over the weekend of November 5-7, the Davidson College field hockey team became the Deep South Tournament Champion for the fourth consecutive time. The Wildcats played three hard-fought games against Appalachian St., Catawba, and Virginia Tech and won each of them, ending their season with a strong record of 12-7-1.

In the first game against Appalachian St., the Wildcats had some difficulty adjusting to Catawba’s slow, rug-like field, and the score of the game remained tied after the first half. In the second part of the game, however, the Wildcats got their timing down and they began to play effectively with their usual small passing game. The entire Davidson team played offensively as their pressure on the Appalachian goalie was intense. Nicole Ficeto broke the 0-0 tie when she scored a beautiful goal on a deflection off of a cross from Missy Potts. Davidson scored their second goal on a flawless corner play: Holly Kledis hit the ball out to Ficeto who stopped the ball for Erin Lang. Lang proceeded to give a perfect pass back over to Kledis who swept the ball into the far corner of the cage. The teamwork couldn’t have been prettier. The final score of the game was 2-0 thanks to the sophomore-scoring-duo.

In their game on Saturday, the Wildcats got a case of “scoring fever” against Catawba. Davidson

See Hockey on page 16

V-ball hopes for upsets in SC tourney
By Matt Pitzer

After two losses Friday and Saturday to two of the tougher teams in the Southern Conference, the volleyball team set its sights squarely on this weekend’s conference tournament knowing that anything can happen. “The main thing is to play the teams in the conference tough during the regular season,” coach Carolyn Blake said. “The conference tournament is the place for upsets.”

Friday, the Wildcats lost to Marshall, 13-15, 15-8, 15-13, and 15-12. On Saturday, East Tennessee State beat Davidson, also in four games, 9-15, 15-5, 15-9, and 15-9. With the two losses, Davidson fell to 12-21 overall and 2-5 in the conference. The Wildcats' final regular season match is Wednesday at UNC-Charlotte.

“They are one of the top teams in the conference,” senior Amy Howard said after the loss to the Buccaneers. “It was a tough loss, but I feel we’re ready for the tournament.”

In Davidson’s final home match of the season, the Buccaneers simply looked stronger than the Wildcats. Howard said the team was trying several tactics to throw ETSU’s offense off-balance. Blake said she was pleased with how the team changed its style of play as the match wore on. “I think we adjusted to their weaknesses nicely in the match,” she said, “But they’re a real, consistent team and they don’t have a lot of weaknesses.”

The Wildcat defense played well, sustaining long rallies, with Michele Augustin playing especially well. “She was unbelievable,” Blake said. “She put on a defensive clinic.”

This season, Davidson has played a tough schedule, including North Carolina and three teams during a trip to California, but those opponents helped the Wildcats to inconsistent results, with a lengthy slump during October. “We had some low points back there in October,” Blake said. “But we’ve seen a lot of maturing over the last month.” She singled out Augustin, Tara Smith, and Ami Bondurant as especially improving. “They’re more consistent and they have more self-confidence.” Part of the Wildcats' problem was their youth, only two seniors -

See Ball on page 16

Cats — bound after trouncing of Eagles
Photo by Brooke McRae

The Wildcats run to their home field for the last game of the season against the Bridgewater Eagles for a big win Saturday. The 55-14 score left Davidson with the first winning football record since 1990, thanks to the leadership of quarterback Richard Howell and coach Tim Landis.

Cat Nips

College football took a wacky turn Saturday
By Will Cobb

The college football season took a wacky turn last weekend. It appears that once again the postseason will hold reduced drama for the National Championship. Poor Bobby Bowden set up a demanding out-of-conference schedule that was too tough for the best team in college football. The history of Notre Dame did not strike, it was Lou Holtz and the well-coached offensive and defensive lines that simply dominated the Seminoles. Maybe next year, Coach Bowden, you will get no rematch.

By the end of the season, the sportswriters will have the mighty Nebraska Cornhuskers and their tough Big 8 schedule square off against Notre Dame in the Orange Bowl. Florida State, you had your chance and unfortunately, the bowl coalition will not deny an undefeated team the opportunity to play for the National Championship. Remember who Notre Dame defeated for their last ring in 1988? That team was a weak 11-0 WestVirginia squad that got destroyed in the Fiesta Bowl. The season is far from over though; Notre Dame must play a hot Boston College team, Nebraska must face rival Oklahoma, Miami must play West Virginia, the yellow-bellied Ohio State Buckeyes can pick up their Rose Bowl check, and Florida State must travel to “The Swamp” to face Florida, so maybe we shouldn’t count our chickens before they hatch.

What’s up with the Cleveland Browns? Can you believe they let go of Bernie Kosar? The man who is the most loved sports figure in Cleveland since the great Jim Brown. That’s like Chicago telling Mike Ditka thanks but no thanks. Or saying “Hey Warren Moon, we're going to go with a third-string quarterback. Sorry to see you go, but you were like a son to us,” from the Houston Oilers. These things shouldn’t happen. The reason the Browns were not scoring many points is because they do not have an offensive coordinator. The “dog pound” sure is going to be upset and unfriendly when they see Bernie Kosar have a field day in Dallas.

One last note for the NFL, why did the Philadelphia Eagles pick up William “the Refrigerator” Perry? If he’s no good for the defense-oriented Bears, what impact could he have for the Eagles?

I hate to say this, but Ken Hatfield should go ahead and start packing his bags. He could go 9-3 and Clemson wouldn’t be happy. Clemson simply wants a coach that looks like he just jumped off a tractor. Sparky Woods, Division I-AA is on the way. You’ve gotten your chance, but big college football was not made for you. Mack Brown of North Carolina, ACC coach of the year. Terry Bowden of Auburn, national coach of the year. Charlie Ward, undisputed Heisman right now, but look out, Marshall Faulk isn’t going down without a fight (32 carries-252 yards-2 touchdowns last Thursday). Faulk is still the best running back in college football. Lombardi and Butkus Awards, Derrick Brooks of Florida State.

Hats off to Tim Landis and Richard Howell. Head Coach Landis landed the most wins in a single season for Davidson since 1969. Howell got a nice write-up in the Charlotte Observer before breaking Davidson’s single-season records by gaining 251 yards of total offense while scoring 26 points (4 rushing TDs, 1 passing TD, 1 two-point conversion). Wow! Football is fun at Davidson again. Congratulations to the coaching staff, players, and especially those seniors who have stuck it out for the past four years.

John Daly is single-handedly trying to ruin the image of pro golf, and he’s doing a good job. First, he can’t hold his liquor and starts beating...

See Nips on page 16

6-4 record best since 1979; Howell in books.
By Neil Marks

The Wildcats ended a 6-4 season with a 55-14 victory over non-conference opponent Bridgewater Saturday at Richardson Field. Senior quarterback Richard Howell delivered a record-breaking performance to end his Davidson football career scoring a school record 26 points and connecting with Del Turner for another score. Running the option to score a record-tying four touchdowns, Howell scored from three, six, 26, and 37 yards out and also rushed for a two-point conversion. He also broke season records with 18 touchdowns and 110 points while finishing with 5,256 yards in total career offense.

“There was a lot of emotion involved in this game since it was the last one and it was a great way to end the year and my career,” explained Howell. Howell rushed 13 times for 125 yards and completed seven of 14 passes for 126 yards.

The Wildcat defense was centered on stopping Bridgewater tailback Ronnie Howard. Howard, whose performance was overshadowed only by that of Howell, ran for touchdowns from 47 and 80 yards out. He also caught a two-point conversion and finished the day with an astronomical 345 yards of total offense. The Davidson defenders were led by linebacker John Dalton and strong safety Frank Houghton. Dalton had 11 tackles while Houghton had 10 and an interception.

Davidson turned eight of their first 10 possessions into touchdowns, including a 51-yard touchdown by Drew Fassett on a fake punt. The 55-14 victory was the biggest scoring output for the Wildcats since a 56-3 victory over Southwestern in 1980 and gave Davidson its first winning season since 1990.

“We had a good year. The ball didn’t always roll in our favor every time and if a couple of plays had gone the other way we could have been 8-2, but we’ve got to be happy with how we played and the winning record,” said Howell.

Coach Landis hopes the blowout will lead to greater achievements next year and a chance at the elusive 8-win season. It will be tough without Howell.