16

On Monday afternoon, October 4, junior Bob Feezor had one of his best first times with a hole-in-one on the shortest hole at Davidson’s Covington Golf Course. Feezor’s witness is his roommate Will Cobb, who had never seen one before live.

The big golf fan hit the shot with a seven iron at 3:47 PM. His drive went high up and landed only a foot and a half from the cup before rolling back in for the memorable shot. He used a Titleist golf ball with plastic tees. Feezor played barefoot, while wearing navy blue Duckhead shorts with a T-shirt. The sky was clear with a 1-2 mile per hour wind from the Northwest. The ball is in his room if you would like to come by and see it. “I couldn’t believe it,” said Feezor. “I’ll never play with that ball again.”
-Will Cobb

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Junior sinks hole-in-one

SPORTS

MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1993

Calendar
SPORTS THIS WEEK

Football
SAT Oct 16 METHODIST
Men’s Soccer
WED Oct 13 at UNC-Greensboro
SAT Oct 16 at Boston University
Women’s Soccer
WED Oct 13 N.C. STATE
SAT Oct 16 at Dayton
SUN Oct 17 at Louisville
Men’s/Women’s Cross Country
SAT Oct 16 N.C. Intercol. Champ.
Volleyball
SAT Oct 16 at UC-Irvine
SUN Oct 17 at Loyola-Marymount
Women’s Field Hockey
SAT Oct 16 at Va. Commonwealth
SUN Oct 17 at Richmond

-Home games in CAPS

When Davidson competed with Duke and Carolina

Holland continued from page 14

season on a controversial last-second goaltending call against West Virginia. They later missed a chance at an NCAA tournament bid by falling to VMI in the Southern Conference tournament, and stayed home despite a finish among the nation’s top ten with a 21-3 record.

There were future success stories under Coach Dreisell and his assistant Holland, highlighted by appearances in the 1968 and 1969 Eastern Regional Finals against Carolina. But the teams on which Holland played were the precedent setters: the first Davidson teams to make a statement to the nation. They cracked the top ten, knocked off the big dogs and established Johnston Gymnasium as a place where Wildcats didn’t lose (undefeated from 1962-71). That 1964 team set a precedent that would last well into the next decade.

It’s difficult to imagine how different Davidson’s campus was back then. All 900-plus students here were white males, with many more than today planning on going into medicine or the ministry. An even bigger difference from then versus now was the size and spectrum of college basketball itself. As the game exploded in popularity and money-generating ability, the College was unfortunately left behind. Holland saw the changes first-hand.

“The bigger schools upped the ante by increasing recruiting budgets,” Holland said. “We realized that as the other schools decided to play seriously they eventually would bid us out of the game. That’s essentially what happened.” The result was that Davidson would only visit the NCAA tournament once in the almost twenty years since Holland’s departure as head coach. There have been some success stories since then, though none like the days of Lefty and Terry in the 60s. Holland doesn’t see a return to glory as an impossibility, however, for Coach Bob McKillop and the Wildcats of the 1990s. “If we can get to the point where we can win the conference and get into the NCAA tournament, say, two out of every three years, then we’re talking possibly figuring out a way to get back into that top 20 category on a regular basis. But you take one step at a time.”

But if we never get back there, Johnston Gymnasium still stands. We can always dribble in, sink a few buckets in the old steel rims, and remember a day when Davidson hoops stood among the giants.

Sources include Quips & Cranks 1963, 1964 and The Charlotte Observer.

Friendly, family dentist
Conveniently located in Davidson--down the street from the VAC

-General Dentistry
-Root Canals
-Preventive Dentistry
-Cosmetic Dentistry
-Crowns, Bridges
-Periodontic Therapy
-Extractions

Rita Bhat, DMD

Call for an appointment 896-7753

Family Dentistry
260 Griffin St.
Davidson, NC. 28036

WHERE YOU WORK WHEN YOU GET OUT OF COLLEGE DEPENDS ON WHAT YOU DO NOW.

Consider an INTERNSHIP in Philadelphia.

Recent Davidson participants:

Shelby Bailey, Research Assistant, Children’s Crisis Treatment Center
Tad Brown, Assistant to Psychiatrist, City Hall
Cliff Castelloe, Legal Intern, PA Attorney General’s Office
Candace Worth, Production Intern, Arden Theater

In addition to working at their job placements, your classmates also participate in academic seminars. They gain independent living skills, experience the diversity of urban living, and develop professionally; ALL WHILE EARNING CREDIT FOR A FULL SEMESTER.

GLCA Philadelphia Center

GRADUATE WITH EXPERIENCE.

For more information, contact Ken Wood, Office of Experiential Programs. 1227-29 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19107; tel. (215) 574-9490; fax (215) 574-0563

Join alumni representative for a meeting about the program:

Monday, 11
3 pm
Union
Screen Room