10 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1993

Baseball Preview '93

‘Cats Prepare to Open Season
Offense Solid, Pitching Still in Question

By Bruce Balestier

Questions. As the start of the season approaches, Davidson baseball coach Dick Cooke has some, and they all revolve around
his pitching staff. Last year’s team rode an explosive offense (.297 average, 68 home runs) and the right arm of
Andy Paul (11-4, 10 complete games, 2.73 ERA, 113 strikeouts in 118 innings) to a very respectable 28-25 record. But
Paul forfeited his senior season when he signed in June with the Milwaukee Brewers. Worse yet, the team lost four
senior pitchers to graduation, and Sam Mackin, arguably the second most effective arm last year (2.95 ERA), did not return
to school.

So when Cooke says, “Pitching-wise, it’s wide open,” he means it. Senior Randy Spaw figures to be the number one
starter. Spaw was 3-8 with a 5.74 ERA last season, but did pitch quite well on occasion; he went eight
strong innings against both Wake Forest and N.C. State. Junior Chris Carrigan has pitched well so far this spring; he
and Mills Ariail, last season’s freshman of the year, could wind up in the rotation.

Seniors Mac Chapman and Mark Snyder, juniors Clay Hall and Brian Heil, and sophomore Tighe Crovetti all threw some innings
last year and likely will again. Freshmen Jeff Andrews, Brian Cole, Rhett Ingerick, Brian Krehmeyer, and Chris Pollard all could
be called on immediately. Junior Tim Sobon might be in the mix, but the prognosis on his injured shoulder is
still uncertain.

Says Cooke, “They could all see relief or starting roles. We’re just going to have to see how the season
unfolds and how they perform when they’re called. We’ve got some guys who I think can be successful. It’s just
a huge lack of experience. It’s a great opportunity for these guys to step up and take charge and see
who wants to get the ball.”

In contrast, Cooke’s lineup is pretty stable, and should hit the ball well again. Seniors Rick Bender and Tim Kerns
finished one-two in most offensive categories last year. Bender, a shortstop, hit .341 with 13 homers, 14 doubles, and 42
RBI. Kerns, a right fielder, hit .337 with 12 homers, 12 doubles, and 41 RBI. Junior centerfielder Jazz Freitas hit
.330. Catcher Brett Boretti hit .312 with nine home runs. Paul Brannan, the left fielder, hit .275 and stole 10
bases in 11 tries. Chapman, the third baseman, hit .259 and knocked in 38 runs. Hall will start the season
at first base and junior Chad Blackwelder at second base. Snyder and Fassett will platoon at designated hitter.

Given the uncertainty of his pitching, Cooke says that steady hitting and defense will be crucial to Davidson’s chances for
success. “I really think offensive leadership by the veterans is going to be critical in easing the difficulties of the
pitching staff,” he said. “We don’t project having a lot of strikeouts as a pitching staff, so we’re going to
have to make sure we play the glove.”

The Wildcats’ return to Southern Conference play means a more difficult schedule right from the start. Georgia Southern and The
Citadel both made it to Omaha in the College World Series two years ago, and Western Carolina came within a
game of doing the same last season. And the rest of the teams are all competitive. Says Cooke, “There’s no
weak club.”

Add to the conference slate games with North Carolina, Duke, N.C. State, Wake Forest, Georgia Tech, and Maryland of the
ACC, and one with South Carolina of the SEC, and you’ve got one demanding schedule. “It’s going to be challenging,”
Cooke says.

Davidson opens its season on the road this Saturday against its only non-Division I opponent, Coker. The home opener is
February 18 against N.C. A&T.
