THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

The Week in Washington

Clinton stretches self on foreign policy

By Katie McKelvie

Unable to refuse George Bush’s foreign policy leftovers or resist the sweet temptation of a national health plan, critics now charge that President Clinton has bitten off more than even he can chew. Faced with a plate of Somalia, Bosnia, Russia, Haiti, the North American Free Trade Agreement, and health care reform, Washington insiders now wonder whether the source of Ross Perot’s “giant sucking sound” might actually be from the West Wing’s kitchen.

The president’s voracious appetite could prove extremely damaging to the future of his domestic agenda. Clinton’s selling power is essential in order to pass such controversial proposals as NAFTA and health care. If the public sees him as indecisive and lacking a “conscious focus,” his credibility will diminish, and with it his ability to push legislation through a skeptical Congress.

Right now Clinton’s objectives in Somalia appear sketchy, his efforts in Haiti have been plagued by “defects in the administration’s decision making,” and problems in Bosnia and Russia remain “unresolved.” Congress is calling for a “coherent foreign policy” and complains of “the administration’s inattentiveness to congressional concerns.”

Clinton recognizes he was elected on the “promise that the American people were hungry for a president who showed that he knew that something had to be done here to address our problems at home that had been long neglected.” However, despite the acknowledgment of the American voter’s domestic appetite, Clinton remains “adrift” in the “new era” of foreign affairs of the post-Cold War.

With the NAFTA vote in the next couple of months and an arduous battle over health care anticipated throughout 1994, the president’s future success with Congress and the American people depends upon his ability to stop playing with his food and eat it.

Information from “The Ship of State Adrift” in the Washington Post Weekly.

Around the World

Guatemalan exile helps his people home

By Jeff Fuller & Martha Knight

Exiled from his native Guatemala along with thousands of indigenous refugees, Carlos Choc Caal, a 30-year-old refugee leader, is endeavoring to help his people return safely to Guatemala after years of exile in Mexico. Carlos Choc Caal spoke about his position in the 900 room on Thursday, October 28 as a Dean Rusk Program speaker.

With help in translation from Craig Ross and Spanish professor Lois Kemp, he shared the story of his time in Mexico as an exile struggling to return to his homeland. Guatemala has experienced civil unrest since 1954, when a CIA coup ousted the reformist president and paved the way for a series of dictators. Although civilians gained government control in a 1986 election, the military still retains power by threatening the people. Military oppression in the early 1980s caused 45,000 indigenous Guatemalans to flee their country and settle in three Mexican states. The military power was seeking to liquidate them in order to acquire their land. Although the indigenous people gained solidarity at first, the “government’s response was bombing, attacks, and massacres,” Choc Caal stated. Thus the Guatemalans were forced to leave the country or be killed. Several members of Choc Caal’s family were murdered during these attacks. Along with 200,000 other Guatemalans, Choc Caal fled his country when his parents and four siblings died in this massacre. In 1987 he was elected by the General Assembly of Refugees to represent the Maya Balan camp and to help plan a safe return to Guatemala.

Today Carlos Choc Caal is trying to negotiate a safe return to Guatemala for 25,000 refugees who want to go back. Earlier this year refugees began to return, but Choc Caal expressed that now “the big challenge for our people is how to acquire land.” The land in Guatemala is now owned by the wealthy who leave large tracts unworked. Purchasing land is impossible for the refugees as prices as high as $6 million for a plantation are presented. Although Guatemala is their home, the refugees are returning to a considerably worse economic situation in Guatemala compared with Mexico. Choc Caal also discussed the problem of security.

WE DELIVER more than just great pizza! We also deliver dinners, subs, BEER, and WINE! Our Prices Can't Be Beat!

AVINO'S

Monday Special
Buy any item from our menu, get the 2nd one 1/2 price. (Excluding drinks & appetizers)

Wednesday Special
All U Can Eat Pizza $4.50
Pitchers of Beer $3.00
All ABC Permits -- TV in Bar

892-4794
I-77 Exit 30, Davidson * Sadler Square * M-F 11:30-10:00 * Sat 4:00-10:00

Support the Bone Marrow Drive. Add your type to the National Bone Marrow Registry. November 17, 9:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m., Morrison Room - or - if you are already registered, you can help defray the Red Cross' expenses by buying a new two-color Bone Marrow t-shirt.for returning refugees. The refugees require an escort to take them across the border, or else they will be susceptible to attack as threats and persecution still exist against the refugees. Although the present government in Guatemala appears to be friendly toward the refugees, Choc Caal fears the government’s inability to help. Choc Caal also made a point that United States aid to the refugees is only helping the government; aid is not reaching the refugees. Although Choc Caal has the help of Mexico, the United States, and several non-governmental associations, he stated that the refugees possess a great degree of self-sufficiency. However, Choc Caal expressed need for financial aid, physical accompaniment for the refugees while traveling from Mexico to Guatemala, and pressure on the United States government to apply its aid to the refugees.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1993

Perspective NOTES

Attacks on Clinton are wrong

“Suddenly the fall fashion is to attack President Clinton’s foreign policy and the team running it. Pundits and politicos galore are talking about ‘a gang of failures’ and calling for the secretary of state to resign.

“The attacks are wrong. They are untimely. They are misguided. But they are more. They are symptoms of the miserable extent to which ‘instant policy’—policy by television and Congress and public opinion polls and talk shows—is making sound, long-term policy almost impossible.

“I am astounded that we Americans pay attention to the publicity-seekers who condemn an administration’s foreign policy after it has been in office only nine months. In the dynamic world after the Cold War, while prodigious forces for change make working out a coherent foreign policy tortuously difficult, how can any sensible person expect foreign policy ‘success’ in less than 300 days?”

—from the October 28 viewpoint by Davidson’s own Ambassador Jack Perry in The Charlotte Observer.

Attacking the Clinton regime

“This year the Enemies List has been limited to members and cohorts of the Clinton administration, those simps and ninnies, lava-lamp liberals and condo pinks, spoiled twerps, wiffenpoofs, ratchet-jawed purveyors of monkey doodle and baked wind, piddlers upon merit, beggars at the door of accomplishment, thieves of livelihood, envy-coddling tax lice applauding themselves for their magnanimity with the money of others, their nose in virtue’s bum. They are the shih tzus of Poli Sci returning to the vomit of liberalism, little boar pigs looking to rut with that sow-who-eats-her-young, the welfare state, squamous muck-dwellers bottom-feeding on the worries and disappointments of the electorate—circuit carp of democracy.

“When have we seen such an administration of pukes and feebs? The president and his spawn, incubi at the public teat, surpass Kennedy in their arrogance, Johnson in their lack of scruples, and Carter in their plain stupidity. They are dung beetles in legislation, legislators in the bed chamber, chambermaids on the battlefield, and field marshals in the war against everything reasonable and decent. Suchlike has not passed through that large intestine which is the Executive Branch since Franklin Delano Roosevelt was wheeled up the disabled access ramp to the gates of Hell.”

—from “Collective Guilt” in the November issue of The American Spectator.

Verdict challenges notions of justice

“Everyone who saw the videotaped beating of [Reginald] Denny understood that a terrible and possibly fatal act had been committed against him. His attackers not only left him bloodied and semiconscious; the videotape also showed one of them—Williams—doing a jubilant dance over Denny’s stricken body. Furthermore, this was, by any reasonable definition, a ‘hate crime.’ African-American motorists drove through the intersection of Florence and Normandie unharmed; white, Asian, and Latino drivers were detained, beaten, and robbed by angry young black men. Many people who viewed the videotapes—whites and nonwhites, liberals as well as conservatives—reacted with a visceral feeling of outrage at the verdict.

“Now that the jury’s judgment is in, people are debating whether it was just and reasonable, whether the prosecutors overcharged, whether the jurors were influenced by the tense racial climate and what it all means about our notions of justice.”

—from the October 22 issue of the Los Angeles Times.

Mexican environmental groups support NAFTA

“We believe that the importance of environmental concerns goes far beyond issues of international trade. Yet, trade does affect the environment, and if NAFTA is ratified there will certainly be important consequences for the environments of Mexico, the United States, and Canada. We also believe that NAFTA and its environmental side agreement will be beneficial for our country’s environment, since a commercial opening already exists but without the rules provided by the environmental side agreement.

"No country in the world has truly solved its environmental problems. Mexico is no exception. We are confident, however, in the positive results of our serious commitment towards a better environment.”

—from an advertisement on behalf of 20 leading Mexican environmental groups printed in the October 24 editorial pages of The New York Times.