Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

btgh cdot “sits seal old ea, aR "about a zillion dollars a year. Of. THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 1993 sionally, I ask my father whether or not I was a good present. He answers, “The verdict’s still out.” In my 2.2 decades, I have accomplished very little. Towards the beginning, I learned to walk. Shortly thereafter, I learned to talk. It’s been downhill since then. And it wouldn’t be so bad, if I wasn’t constantly bombarded with images of younger-than-me, outrageously successful people. For example: Shaquille O'Neill is only 21. Of course, if I was 7 feet tall, weighed 300 pounds and could dunk, I'd be making that kind of money, too. Jennifer Capriati, Michael Chang, Stephanie Seymour (the model) - they’re all younger than I am and amazingly, exponentially more successful. But they all have that little something, be it a sports skill or dazzling intellect, that makes them special. The one that really gets me is that McCully Culkin kid. He’s what, six? He got paid millions for his last film, and the only talents he possesses are cuteness, and, well, cuteness. But everyone’s cute at that age. He hasn’t drank enough beer and smoked enough cigarettes to make him ugly yet. 

And with the wisdom age inevitably brings, I feel it is time to reflect upon my life. I was born a week before Christmas in 1970. (If you forgot, it’s OK. I have more than enough Merry Christmas/Happy Birthday cards sitting on my desk at home.) Incidentally, that was my parents’ second wedding anniversary. Occasionally, I ask my father whether or not I was a good present. He answers, “The verdict’s still out.” In my 2.2 decades, I have accomplished very little. Towards the beginning, I learned to walk. Due to false advertising, I thought this was the deal: when you get to be my age, they give you a job, a car, and a beard. I’m unemployed. My only modes of transportation are Moe & Joe and my bike. And something in my genetic code prevents me from growing a beard. I've tried, and I actually put 22 candles on the cake. It took me 5 minutes and a lot of hyperventilating to blow out the flaming cake, and about 3 weeks to grow my eyebrows back. I’m old.

See Biss on page 10

The Bush Pardons: Worse Than Watergate
By Alex Crumbley

Before I begin, I would like to state my purpose in starting an opinions column, and tell readers that it will not always be political like it is today, and that it will not always be negative and inflammatory as some of you may find this one to be. I hope it will add to this paper a supplement to the campus-oriented editorials concerning such issues as the alcohol policy and the Union Outpost, issues which are immediately important to us but are by no means paramount to our growth as students or to our understanding of the world. Above all, I hope I don’t look like an idiot, and I hope that maybe some babes will think I’m an intellectual.

My topic today concerns the last trick George Bush pulled on us before he left the White House and returned to Maine, or Texas, or whatever important electoral state he claimed to live in. I am referring, of course, to the pardons which he issued on Christmas Eve while we were all out doing our last minute Christmas shopping, not paying any attention to our lame duck President.

For those of you who fell prey to Bush’s downplay of the event, Bush pardoned several members of Reagan’s staff, including Caspar Weinberger, for the Iran-Contra scandal, soon after they were indicted. They accepted the pardons although they had previously claimed innocence and got away scot-free with the worst scandal in recent history. By worst, I mean worst. Worse than bouncing a few checks, worse than trading some inside stock-market tips. Worse than Watergate.

The implications of Bush’s action are many. First, pardoning these men is little less than an outright admission of their guilt. The crime they committed is treasonous. They sold weapons to our blood enemies (remember that little hostage crisis? That was Iran.) and gave the money to some guerillas.

See "Alex" on page 10

In Black & White... On Interracial Dating

This week's perspective is from Scott. Tune in next week for Deidra’s side.

“If Blacks and Whites were meant to mix, God would have made us all the same color.” These were the words of a caller on a radio talk show concerning interracial dating. “It’s just not natural,” she continued. That this kind of thought persists among members of our generation is astounding. Our generation grew up, save those members born before the 1965 Watts riots, in a period where interracial dating was becoming more accepted. Yet, many Davidson people, if it came to a question of personally crossing “the color barrier,” would hesitate. There are legitimate reasons for not wanting to date a person of another race, and there are reasons that are not legitimate. I’m afraid that the wrong reasons dominate.

One legitimate reason is physical preference. Shortly after the release of Jungle Fever, Spike Lee said, during a French television interview, that he usually didn’t date white women because he generally preferred the looks of black women. This is a legitimate reason. But to say that you wouldn’t date someone because “it’s just not right” or “you just couldn’t” is definitely racist. Having preferences is not.

Is this why we don’t see more interracial dating at Davidson? Because most students prefer the looks of members of their own race? Partly. ButThere are other reasons too. For one thing, we hardly have enough African-American students for anyone to date: the population is something like five percent. For another thing, we don’t see a whole lot of interracial anything here. There are groups of relative racial harmony (barring recent souring of race relations culminating in the L.A. riots of this summer). Many of our parents were actively involved in promoting Civil Rights legislation in the sixties, and all were alive during the time of Martin Luther King and Malcolm X. You’d think some of their intelligent thinking would have rubbed off on us. It did, to some extent, with organizations such as SERCH, which try to promote interaction among Blacks and Whites. BSC parties draw mixed results as far as White attendance. But there is a remarkable lack of Blacks and Whites truly interacting, socially and intellectually (how many times does a mixed-race group sit around and discuss racial issues? It happens, but not often). Perhaps one problem is that those members of our parents’ generation who believe in some degree of racial separation also passed along their ideas to their children. They’re not cretins, not all of them. They just have a measure of hate and fear in their hearts where acceptance should be. There is no logical reason why Blacks and Whites should not date and marry. Our caller asserted that it’s not natural. But God didn’t make all cats the same color, yet nobody asserts that it’s unnatural for a yellow cat and a grey cat to date (or have kittens or what have you). Most Davidson people would agree that, in theory, interracial dating is just fine. But most people have their preferences. For example, one Black student said he generally preferred the way Black women look. If he found a White woman whom he considered attractive, he would be willing to date her. (Feminists, retract your claws; we’re assuming that the hypothetical women in question have attractive personalities as well. I wouldn’t assert that dating solely involves physical attraction.) This doesn’t make him a racist. This is the same as preferring blondes to brunettes. Asserting that you would never date a person of a different race because you don’t like the way any of them look is potentially racist (because you’re generalizing). One of the biggest reasons why there is so little interracial dating is that people are uncomfortable with it. There is an unconscious societal force that says Blacks and Whites don’t date. Many people’s families disapprove, and the people who stare at you in town and in Charlotte certainly do. People at Davidson are remarkably accepting if a mixed-race couple shows up at Homecoming. These weekend dates are fine. But there are very few cases where a Black person and a White person have dated for a long time at Davidson, and these are more or less kept under wraps.

See "B&W" on page 10

Soccer Victory is a Symbol
By Matt Bumstead

It’s January at Davidson, and the weather has been downright nasty. Pretty soon we’ll all be in full swing into the daily grind of life as Davidson students (and faculty). We’ll moan, we’ll drag, and we’ll probably start fussing again. Yep, you can almost set your watch by it. But then again, maybe there’s hope yet. Maybe, just maybe, when we start to let the work, the over-involvement, and the fatigue get to us, we'll stop and reflect upon where we stood last December. Oh sure, the weather was still bad; and the workload was as bad then as it ever can get. But we were smiling then. We were cheering. Instead of working on a 14-page paper due the next day and a 25-page paper due the next week, I was out in the cold with some 20 or 30 guys, painting red and white paw prints on the streets of Davidson. And relishing every second of it. For days on end, we couldn’t study; we couldn’t even sleep at night without first counting the days until our Wildcat Soccer team would again take us on the best ride of our lives. For some of you, this narrative may be pushing it as "... possibly the greatest moment in Davidson history - our trip to the Final Four." An accurate portrayal of your state of mind during those wonderful four weeks. But for most of you, I’m on the money. For four weeks, the angry debates over racism, sexism, alcohol, and politics cooled off and took a back seat in casual discussion, where attention was turned instead to Rob Ukrop’s bicycle kick, Alex Deegan’s heart-stopping saves against Coastal, and possibly the greatest sports happening in Davidson history - our trip to the Final Four. And wasn’t it wonderful? For a few weeks, we all regressed to that thrilling feeling of pride and excitement we all experienced as first-week freshmen. We were proud. We were talking big. We were smiling. We were LIVING. We were all here together, and we didn’t want it any other way. And so we reach the two-fold point of this piece. Although a small article in the paper can never do the event justice, I simply wanted to extend my own congratulations to the Davidson College Men’s Soccer Team. But, more importantly, I want to thank you - from me, and everyone who

See "Bumstead" on page 10