3 ARTS _ MONDAY, APRIL 5, 1993

Theatre... Random Humor Makes Workshop Theatre a Hit

By Kevin O’Nell

Pot-smoking Indians, Bill Clinton eating his morning McDonald’s special, and an elephant sentenced to death in court all marked the
Studio I production by the Theatre 121 and 221 classes Wednesday and Thursday. The series of skits and songs were
both humorous and enjoyable as the players presented their new understanding of the theatre to a small audience in the
Makeshift Theatre Workshop.

So small was the set, in fact, that several audience members accidentally sat in chairs placed on the stage. From
the beaches of La Jolla to the pubs of the British Isles and from the art of fly-fishing to the
legend of “Merry Juana” (Kyle Garner), a jocular Native American, the actors took the audience through five sets of selected
and original skits based on the theme “Tales from the Land.”

Beginning with Miles Lowry’s entrance as an elderly fly-fisherman, the groupings included “Stories from the South,” “Our Cousins in the
British Isles,” “Native American Myths,” “Tall Tales from the Plains,” and “Contemporary Lunacies” with the actors placed in random groupings
that allowed them to play characters of varying age, background, and interest.

The skits chosen by the classes appeared random but were enjoyable. A scene from a courtroom in Tennessee portrayed the
trial of Dumbo the elephant, charged with killing a small girl in a stampede, and his eventual death sentence. The
seriousness of the jury in tears as the lawyers made their appeals quickly evaporated as the sentence was carried out
from a slide projector—Dumbo hanging from a crane.

The nonsense continued in the British section in which Whitney Jewitt and Kakki McEntire portrayed poor women talking circles around
each other in a tea-house followed by a companion piece with Simon Priestley and Miles Mowry complaining about women and
politics in a Scottish Pub. The show ended with the “Contemporary Lunacies” skits, written by the actors. Familiar material was
often used in the skits: Whitney Jewitt and Amanda Davis portrayed a taxi-ride in New York. The final “Contemporary Lunacy”
skit left the audience singing “When Big Mac Bill Comes Joggin’ In,” a revised version of “When the Saints Go
Marchin’ In,” to the tune of Jeff Terrell’s sax and the sound of the rain pounding down on Cunningham’s roof.
But inside, it was all sunshine as the randomness of material created a refreshing performance from a group of fine
performers.

Daufuskie Island, S.C.: A Dying Way of Life

A Culture and a Language are Being Forced Out By Resort Developers

By Rachel Newcomb

“The island is fringed with the green, undulating marshes of the southern coast; shrimp boats ply the waters around her
and fishermen cast their lines along her bountiful shores. Deer cut through her forests in small silent herds. The great
southern oaks stand broodingly on her banks. The island and the waters around her teem with life. There is something
eternal and indestructible about the tide-eroded shores and the dark, threatening silences of the swamps in the heart of the
island. It is beautiful because man has not yet had time to destroy this beauty.” - Pat Conroy, The Water
Is Wide

The island is accessible only by boat. One of a chain of tiny sea islands off the coast of South
Carolina, it is the only island that hasn’t been connected to the mainland and turned into a resort community. It
is also the only island which still harbors a vanishing way of life. Many residents still live the way they
have for generations, fishing or weaving baskets from marsh grass for their livelihood and residing in small shanties off dirt
roads. A fertile land of marshes and oyster-rich coastal creeks, Daufuskie Island is still fairly untainted by progress and development.
But this may change. Already two resorts take up half the island. If the pattern on other sea islands is
any indication, Daufuskie residents may be driven away by obscenely high property taxes to make room for vacationers.

For over a hundred years, this unique sea island community has

Photo by Casey Rogers
Julian Cochran '92 and Fud McKinney, guitarists for the band Residew, performed on Patterson Court Saturday, April 3, as part
of the Spring Frolics activities.

Residew Jams on Patterson Court

Band Entertains Hundreds for Lazy Saturday Afternoon

By Chris Frampton

The sun finally shone on Saturday, and Davidson was ecstatic. About four hundred people filled the Court, eating free pizza
and drinking free lemonade. In KA, PiKA, and Kappa Sig, people drank something else as alumni and current students relived
old times. And among all of that, the Residew kept the air filled with their familiar mix of classic rock
and originals.

“It’s cool.” That’s what Chip Petree, the band’s bassPlayer," said during their break about halfway through the show. Although the
crowd wasn’t exactly perfect, everyone was a little bit more interested in the sun than the band, but the Dew
kept at it. And it paid off. Throughout the afternoon, students could be seen bouncing their heads, playing drums on
their legs, or playing air guitar. The space in front of the band was always filled by someone dancing and
laughing to the music. The Residew’s original song, “Schmo” brought the smiles out. Everyone seemed to know the words and
about half the audience knew the guitar part. On the corner of the patio behind the commons, someone ran at
the gigantic, inflatable ball and dove on it, screaming "Schmo." Perhaps they had spent too much time in one of
the houses. In two of those houses, KA and PiKA, brothers and their dates were eating roasted pig, playing cards,
and just sitting around. At Kappa Sig, a gigantic water slide was set up and people from all over the
court were lining up to take their turn. On the porch of Rusk, three friends were laying back in their
chairs, Solo cups resting on the tables, sleeves rolled up to their shoulders, their faces looking up to the sun.
On the grass around the patio, blankets kept people off the ground as they tried to get some of the
sun they hadn’t seen in weeks. These were the people that most pleased the Dew. As Chip put it, “It’s
great to see everyone just sort of lying around and listening to us. It's cool. In a way it’s kind
of like we’re a radio. Normally, that type of thing makes me mad, but today I wish I was in
the audience. We’re glad we were able to be part of this day.” And they were. Sitting on a bench
near the pizza, Matt Spear said he loved listening to Residew. As he put it, “They are just sort of
a great band to listen to. I have one of their tapes and I love to use it to study
to. They have a good beat and a good sense of where to go while they are playing.” Yvette Pita
agreed. “The guitar is great. Julian [Cochran] and Fud [McKinney] play great on the guitar and Chip’s bass is hot.
It's perfect for a day like today.” After saying that, Yvette turned around and started dancing with Phelps Sprinkle. The
two of them danced the way that almost everyone dances to this band. It is a kind of bouncing sort
of sway that allows for individual variations. Basically, it fits right with the band's style of music.

Off the coast of South Carolina, in relative isolation, a culture known as Gullah has developed on Daufuskie Island, next
to Hilton Head. Originally settled by Indians, Daufuskie became profitable to Europeans, as it was suitable for crops such as
rice and indigo. With the Europeans came slaves, who, unlike mainland slaves who picked up standard English, developed their own
language. Called Gullah, this tongue was a mixture of English and West African dialects and was handed down through generations.
In 1979, reports found 100,000 South Carolinians who spoke Gullah. In the 1990 census, 180 spoke the language. After the
Civil War, the whites left the island. For a hundred years, Daufuskie was like many of the other sea islands
surrounding it. Blacks lived unobtrusively off the earth, having little communication with the outside world. But gradually, each of the
islands began to see development. Islanders were either lured away by real estate offers or forced to leave because they
could no longer afford the heavy property taxes. Daufuskie is the only one which still maintains some vestiges of the
past. Over the years, the Gullah developed many unique customs. Windows and rooms were painted blue, to scare off spirits.
Intricate Gullah baskets resemble West African designs, and herbal medicine remedies have been traced to African potions. Gullah burial customs
dictated that the afterlife be filled with necessities; graves were elaborately decorated, then kept sacred and undisturbed. The two resorts
divide the island and admission is restricted. According to some of the black residents, one of the resorts is built
upon a Gullah graveyard. The resort denies this and states that its presence has actually helped the Daufuskie natives by
creating jobs. It is likely that more construction will come, and more islanders will move away. By the year 2000,
it is predicted that 10,600 people will live on Daufuskie. Many of the native blacks will be forced to move
away. Things have definitely changed. Pollution from the Savannah River has also affected the island.

See Gullah on page 9

Antony and Cleopatra
Presented by The Shenandoah Shakespeare Express
Thursday, April 8 at 8:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
