THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS ___ MONDAY, MARCH 8, 1993

3

Man Shows Self in Chambers

Flasher continued from page 1

sion he exited the same door that he had entered. “I wasn’t scared because it was broad daylight but it
made me wonder: if he would do something like that during the day, what would he do at night?” said
Moore. She said that because the man did not come towards her she knew he did not intend to hurt
her. Moore went immediately to the Registrar’s office and reported the incident to the campus police. According to the campus
police report, officers were dispatched to the area directly after the incident was reported. No one by that description was
found. According to Officer Rick Moore, the campus police are “actively investigating it.” Incidents of indecent exposure on campus have
occurred prior to Friday’s display. Campus police report that one person was arrested in November of ‘93 and another “several
months” before. Officer Moore stated that the people who have been arrested “have been from off campus.” Moore, the victim,
traveled to Huntersville on Wednesday, March 3 to make a composite sketch of the man who “flashed” her. A computerized
system allowed her to shape the facial features of a man whom she decided most closely resembled the “flasher.” She
was also shown a picture line-up. After studying the pictures she identified her first choice and a second one after
“over-analyzing” the portraits. Moore admitted that her “first instinct” in choosing the picture of the man was the picture of
the police’s suspect. Moore also commented, “Something like that happening in the city is expected, but here at Davidson it
is very unusual.”

Prof.'s Course Load to Fall

Load continued from page 1

cals to preclude the need to hire replacement faculty. While the decision of the decrease in faculty course-load has surprised
many students, it is the product of many years of planning. Dean Williams commented that the decision seems sudden to
students because of the lack of communication between the administration and students over the past years. The administration wishes to
improve communication with the Educational Policy Committee as well as the new SGA Council on Academic Affairs. Before finalizing the
decision, the administration carefully consulted the faculty and Trustees. Nevertheless, the responsibility of the decision ultimately lay with the administration.
Dean Williams writes: “I believe that Davidson’s strength makes possible a change that will improve faculty productivity, provide for greater
attention to students, and improve our professional standing relative to our peer institutions; including our ability to recruit and retain
first-class faculty.” Chairs will assign a teaching load of five courses to full-time faculty beginning in the Fall of 1994,
and the administration will monitor the change on an annual basis.

NOW OPEN « NOW OPEN « NOW OPEN « NOW OPEN

LAKE NORMAN’S NEWEST

DAVIDSON COLLEGE SPRING SPECIAL

TAKE-OUT ANY OF OUR SPECIALTY PIZZAS (Tomato & Basil © Spit-Roasted Chicken © B.L.T) OR ANY TRADITIONAL PIZZA--HAND TOSSED, OR
EXTRA THIN (Cheese, Peppers, Onions, Bacon, Pepperoni, Mushrooms, Sausage)

10" PIZZA (Any 3 Toppings) $4.95
14" PIZZA (Any 3 Toppings) $6.95

SPECIAL GOOD ANY DAY ~ 11:00AM-7:00PM & 9:00PM-11:00PM

CALL OR FAX AHEAD-WE'LL HAVE THEM READY!
PHONE: 896-0085 or FAX: 896-8010
SHOPS ON THE GREEN I-77 N, Exit 28 Adjacent to Comfort Inn Cornelius, NC

NOW OPEN « NOW OPEN « NOW OPEN « NOW OPEN

Open Letter

Terry Reconsiders No Cluster Policy

For the last two weeks I feel like I've been in one long conversation regarding the new non-cluster lottery policy.
During that time many colleagues and students have looked at me sadly and said “Tough week, huh.” Actually it has
been a very thought-provoking and, I think, constructive period. I would like to thank everyone, (even you, Grossman) for being
willing to talk to me civilly and maturely. Further, thanks for being willing to listen to me. Given the manner
in which this policy was changed perhaps it would have been fair for students not to listen at all. I
would like to specifically thank the Student Government Association, the Council on Campus and Religious Life, Joe Cook, and B.J.
Rudell for theirAttention to this policy and the wishes and needs of the student body as a whole. Throughout this
discussion, I believe there have been two principles at stake. First, our campus community should actively endorse openness to and
respect for people of varying ethnic, cultural, religious, economic, and social backgrounds. Second, if we are serious when we talk
about ‘the college community,’ then students should have some voice in matters that, to quote the SGA response to this
issue, “singularly affect” them. I think it is safe to say that the latter of these two principles was not
represented in this process.

At the risk of sounding defensive, I would like to shed some light on how this kind of policy could
find its way into print without consulting students in advance. Like many on our campus, I have been frustrated at
the lack of interaction between different types of students (and faculty and staff) in our community. I think it is
clear that there are not as many opportunities for this type of exposure as there need to be. I have
been struck by the degree of separation that exists on many upperclass floors. I am amazed that students can go
a full year knowing no more than a fellow resident’s name, if that. In Residence Life, we have begun to
develop greater expectations of Resident Advisors with respect to building community, and these divisions represent a serious obstacle.

The idea of eliminating clusters seemed an obvious strategy for promoting greater interaction between students, so obvious, in fact, that
the way students would react or their perception of what this policy would do to their lives did not occur
to me. My thinking was not that ‘students will hate this, but we’re doing it anyway.’ It has become clear
in the last two weeks that the discussion around this issue should have preceded our decision. If I had it
to do over again, I would approach it quite differently. It is vital to me, however, that the message not
be lost in the haggling over how the policy was introduced.

I’ve been told, ‘You can’t force people to be friends,’ and ‘Some people just don’t want to meet new, different
folks.’ I agree, we can’t force friendships. But Davidson’s mission is to develop liberated minds that think critically, to inculcate
a sense of responsibility to one’s community here and beyond. If a student doesn’t want to engage new ideas and
is happy getting a diploma, going to grad school, getting the big salary, and joining a country club, there are
plenty of other schools (some probably less expensive) that can do a good enough job of that. True learning rarely
occurs without challenge, and part of our job is to see that you aren’t allowed to safely memorize your way
through this place.

By the same token, I give credence to some of the arguments I have heard in the last days that
remind me of the value of a support system within the residence hall community. Some have argued convincingly that clusters
themselves are not always made up of best friends and that exposure to different ways of living can occur within
them. Others point to the sensitive nature of any decision that influences who you sleep and live around.

My decision, then, is to modify the non-cluster policy as stated in the lottery handbook. For this spring’s lottery, clusters
will be allowed for groups totaling 4, i.e., two pairs of roommates. If triples are involved, 5 or 6 individuals
may cluster together. Prior to this year, clusters had been limited to 4 rooms or 8 people. It is important
to note that we continue to use the percentage limits for social affiliates that have been in effect for several
years now. Consult the Lottery Brochure for elaboration of this policy. This revision is in response to both principles outlined
above. It is my avowed intention to include students in a meaningful way in policy decisions in the future. To
that end, a representative of the SGA will be meeting with me regularly to review current policies and future plans
in Residence Life. For this spring, that contact will be B.J. Rudell. B.J. encourages you to contact him with questions
or comments that pertain to Residence Life.

Again, let me thank the entire student body for its patience and maturity in addressing this matter.

Sincerely,
Richard Terry
Director of Residence Life

We've found the hottest places—at the lowest price.
Let’s Go:
- Europe
- Italy
- Britain & Ireland
- France
- Germany, Austria & Switzerland
- Greece & Turkey
- Israel & Egypt
- Spain & Portugal
- London
- Paris
- Rome
- Mexico
- U.S.A.
- New York City
- Washington, D.C.
- Pacific Northwest, Western Canada & Alaska
- California & Hawaii

Let’s Go, Inc.
A subsidiary of Harvard Student Agencies, Inc.
St. Martin’s Press
