THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Clearing up rumors about new eating houses

Rumor continued from page 1

activities that do not “revolve around the keg.” They too have begun their rallying of student support. “We have printed up pamphlets with information about our house, have talked with various groups regarding the proper procedures, and have held several informal meetings,” said Hackett. “The options for the Court are so limited right now. We hope to establish a house that caters to individuals who haven’t found their niche on the court yet.

"We plan on having a stereo-system dance floor as well as other features that will make the house attractive to members. It will also be nice to have a place where both sexes can eat together," Hackett added.

Holmes hopes that both houses gain support among students. Holmes stated, “Although neither have been made official, I am optimistic that Patterson Court will support the push for a new house.

"If it is possible, I would support both houses. However, this would require 200 students, excluding freshmen, currently not involved in the Court to express interest,” Holmes explained.

Patterson Court President Julie Petty said, “Patterson Court supports the concept of another eating house, but not at the expense of jeopardizing the existing houses.”

If anyone is interested in getting involved with either of these movements to provide more options for Patterson Court, call Allison Sabel, for the women’s house at 6030, or Jonathan Orr, for the co-ed option, at 6353.

Students want earlier holidays

Break continued from page 1

The Faculty Executive Committee has been meeting with student representatives to discuss the problem. Jennifer Humphrey, chair of SGA’s Council on Academic Affairs, asks “Where are the students getting a fair shake in this?” She says that the SGA asked for another day in the exam schedule; however, the dates in December were not what they envisioned.

Humphrey points out that the week earlier in August this year would have made the calendar like last year's. But she says faculty would like a calendar that follows more closely to the Charlotte Mecklenburg schools, especially in light of family vacation time. A later start also allows for research programs and national conferences to fall during summer break.

She sees two solutions. Either we could have shorter semesters or a definite cutoff date in December. A cutoff date would push the start of school back in August, but Humphrey says that is preferable. Students do not have the opportunity to get jobs during the Christmas rush and completely miss out on the holiday build-up.

Although the faculty see the extra exam day as optional, many students do not have an option. Honor council and SGA members who have to pass out exams as well as hall counselors and RA’s must stay at Davidson until the last day.

Humphrey is not hopeful: “The Faculty Executive Committee is listening to student input, but unfortunately nothing has changed." The faculty still seems unsure of the opinion of the student body. “Our feeling from all of these complaints is that the student body would rather start early,” says McKelway. “It was unwise. We thought that we were doing the students a favor and we solved one student problem by creating another. To tell you the truth I have no idea.”

WE DELIVER

FROM THE PCC

Whether or not a fourth eating house will participate in Self-selection this January has been an important issue in the past several weeks. The Patterson Court Council feels it important to respond publicly to the issue and to clarify its role in the process of Self-selection and the addition of new Patterson Court houses:

As in previous years, freshwomen will list their first choice affiliation and alternate houses in order of preference. These choices will be entered into a computer which places women in houses of their preference until each house gains sixty members. At this point, waiting lists will be started. In past years this system has resulted in the vast majority of freshwomen getting their first choice. Presently freshwomen will choose between the three existing houses: Connor, Rusk, and Warner Hall.

In order for a new house to join the court, the interested persons must present forty signatures by upperclassmen who have committed to join as well as the group’s written by-laws to be submitted to PCC for consideration. The Council votes and sends its recommendation to the Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) for further action.

At PCC’s November 7 meeting, a spokeswoman from a group interested in starting a fourth women’s eating house presented ideas for her proposed organization as well as evidence of some verbal support from upperclasswomen. The PCC cannot make an official decision on the addition of a new house until it has received the necessary materials (listed above), however, a preliminary vote was taken. PCC is not denying the possibility of a fourth house, but cannot give its support to the effort at this time. Until the Council has determined the support for the organization, it cannot assess the group’s impact on the existing court.

The council looks forward to the continuing discussion on the issue.

Sincerely,
Patterson Court Council

more-than just great pizza! We also deliver dinners, subs, BEER and WINE! Our Prices Can't Be Beat!

Monday Special
Buy any item from our menu, get the 2nd one 1/2 price. (Excluding drinks & appetizers)

Wednesday Special
All U Can Eat Pizza $4.50Pitchers of Beer. $3.00 All ABC Permits -- TV in Bar 892-4794 1-77 Exit 30. Davidson * Sadler Square » M-F 11:30-10:00 « Sat 4:00-10:00

Bundy recalls mistakes of Vietnam

Vietnam continued from page 1

Foremost was Vietnam’s determination, commitment, and skill, which far surpassed the United States’ expectations. In short, Bundy stated, “The government of North Vietnam cared enough more, that they were bound to win.” Citing Dean Rusk, Bundy also noted the administration’s overestimation of the American people, both in terms of endurance and conviction. Together, this imbalance of determination was a crucial factor in the war’s outcome.

Looking forward from the early 1960s, many officials believed that U.S. support of the South Vietnamese would work because they had several unexpected successes. Furthermore, critics and proponents alike felt that Vietnam was not a war from which the U.S. could escape because a North Vietnamese victory would produce a “domino effect” of communist takeovers, Bundy remembered. Consequently, the president’s decisions involved how to repair the growing problems within the conflict, not about the U.S.’s presence. The picture both President Kennedy and Johnson had was of helping the South Vietnamese.

Vietnam had been “placed to one side” in 1964 because President Johnson focused his attention on the election. By 1965 the administration was forced to make decisions because the U.S. had to do more or lose, Bundy concluded. After six months of increasing difficulties in 1965, Johnson decided to find a way of successfully remaining in Vietnam without interrupting the passage of his Great Society legislation. So, Bundy recalled, “Johnson goes to war without saying so.” Doing so, he “makes unfortunate use of the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution.” This evasive measure cost the President the Congress's and people’s trust, and following the disastrous Tet Offensive in 1967, Johnson was voted out of office in 1968.

To analyze whether there was a way to avoid such obstacles, Bundy proposed how Kennedy would have handled Vietnam had he survived. Like Johnson, Kennedy would have spent 1964 campaigning and not made Vietnam decisions until 1965. Unlike Johnson, however, Kennedy would have stated, “We're not going to desert these people, but neither are we going to take over their war.” While this would have led to no different final results, the United States would have been spared the bulk of our 60,000 casualties, Bundy surmised.

Noting the Cold War attitude which overestimated the “domino effect” Vietnam would have had on communist power, Bundy called for today’s leftover Cold War habits and attitudes to be “brushed away so we can start afresh.” Bundy also drew two major lessons from the Vietnam experience: the President must always inform Congress and the American public of his or her opinion on foreign policy matters and be ready to explain it; and administrations “have to not get caught in by suction” and instead examine each situation separately, including the foreign players’ commitment in relation to the American population’s attitude.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1993

College talks about next Dean of Students

By Rachel Dunifon

Last Wednesday, students, faculty and staff gathered in Vail Commons to discuss what they want in a new Dean of Students. The dinner was one of the SGA-sponsored Roundtable Discussions, held throughout the year and open to everyone.

Dr. Bruce Jackson of the Math Department heads the search committee commissioned to find a new Dean of Students by this spring. He informed the dinner group of the progress that his committee has made, which thus far has involved writing a complete description of the Dean’s job. According to Jackson, this is not a simple task, as the Dean’s job encompasses many more aspects of campus life than just the realm of students.

As discussion turned to what Davidson needs in a new Dean of Students, several issues were raised. While it was unanimous that the person selected should be a good administrator, as well as able to relate to students, parents, faculty and staff, other points saw less agreement. Debate among students revolved around whether it should be a priority to ensure that the new Dean of Students is someone who has had personal contact with Davidson in the past. Some students feel that this is necessary to guarantee that the person understands Davidson’s tradition, including the importance of the Honor Code. Others believe, as Davidson has changed so drastically over the last years, that a person who is tied down to an image of the Davidson of the past would not reflect the interests of current Davidson students. Many students feel that the appointment of a new Dean of Students is a symbolic move, and one that should reflect the changing face of Davidson’s student body.

Dr. Jackson and other members of the committee emphasized their focus on finding the best person for the job, without conforming to a preconceived image of who this person should be. They also encouraged students, faculty and staff to give any input or opinions that they might have about the search to members of the committee, who will begin interviewing next semester. The committee members are: Bruce Jackson, Julio Ramirez, Vivien Dietz, Janet Shannon, DeVane Tidwell, Eric Rosenbach, Sarah Orsbon, Julie Petty, Jeff Frank, and Lisa Combs.

Correction: Two weeks ago, The Davidsonian reported that the producers of Equus discussed the play's nudity with the Dean of Students. The producers actually corroborated with Dean of Faculty Robert Williams.