THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, MARCH 29, 1993

HARRISON ROBERTS - Editor in Chief
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Executive Editor
LEIGH RAWDON - Managing Editor
ALICE FELMLEE - News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL - Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor
YVETTE PITA - Special Section Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

MANDY CURTIS - Copy Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist
LAURA DENNIS - Production Manager
BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS - Business Manager
ERIC SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

Reduced Course Loads

Several weeks ago, The Davidsonian reported that Residence Life had eliminated clusters for the 1993-1994 school year. Student outrage was
overwhelming, primarily because of RLO’s failure to include any students in the decision-making process. In the same way, some students
argue that the reduction of faculty course loads was carried out in a covert manner, ignoring students’ desires. Policy changes
that affect them so profoundly, they claim, must first be made public for discussion and approval, and the failure of
the administration to do this is the cause of much campus “discontent.”

However, in these two cases of policy change, similarities end at the lack of student involvement. Eliminating clusters would affect
only students. When students voiced their disapproval, RLO amended the policy. Though the reduction of faculty course loads does to
some degree limit students’ choice of classes, it primarily affects the faculty. Faculty, then, should have most of the say
in the decision.

Beyond the specific merits and downfalls of the reduced faculty load is the more important issue that this discussion highlights:
how much input should students have into changes that affect faculty policy and how much input should the faculty have
on changes that affect student life? The answer to this question can be found in the very recent history of
administrative changes affecting student life. The failure of the new alcohol policy to achieve its stated goals is the most
prominent. It is a glaring example of what happens when the administration infringes upon the students’ power to control their
own actions. It seems likely then, that professors can most effectively bring about faculty change by governing themselves.

As Davidson students, we have a tendency to lose sight of the fact that after our 36-month stay here, the
life of the school continues. The administration has been planning to reduce course loads since before any of us were
here, and the actual effects of the change will probably not touch most of us. A relevant question might be
one that Gill Holland asked several weeks ago on another topic, “Is this a legitimate topic for conversation at Davidson?”
Yes it is—in offices and faculty lounges, not in dorms. There are more important problems to worry about here; let’s
get to them.

Power of the Majority

Recently Davidson has seen significant efforts exhibiting support by the majority for minority groups on campus. The forum discussing gay
and lesbian life at college and in the professional world drew nearly twenty percent of the student body. This overwhelming
attendance reveals growing concern about minorities’ experiences. Another instance in which campus minorities need support involves repeated incidences of the
campus police stopping black students to check for college IDs. Complaints must be made by more than the small African-American
Davidson population. Certainly, it is through the actions of the majority that the college experience can most rapidly be made
beneficial and enjoyable to all students, overlooking differences including those of race, socio-economic background, and sexual orientation.

LETTERS

Excluding Students Causes Weak Relations

To the editors,

The decision of the faculty and administration to lower the faculty course load is the latest move made in a
series of actions meant to better the national ratings of the school. To our knowledge, no input was sought from
the student body. The plan to lower the courses taught to five a year was supposedly decided on seven years
ago. Through involvement with the SGA, Patterson Court, Honor Council, Davidson Ambassadors, and other activities, we have not once heard
of this plan in our three years here. It is this kind of covertness that breeds apathy and discontent in
the student body.

The general disregard and unresponsiveness of school officials for student opinion is disconcerting and degrades our Davidson experience. We are
a vital majority of the academic com...

See Letters on page 7

Zimmerman Defends Course Loads

To the editors,

In convincing...The president and trustees to reduce the normal faculty teaching load to five courses a year, Dean Williams has
helped Davidson take one of the major remaining steps toward achieving its dramatic potential as one of the nation’s preeminent
liberal arts colleges. Inspiring teaching requires time, energy, and preparation - much more than laypersons realize. The acknowledged leaders among
national liberal arts institutions must have discovered something significant about the quantity/quality balance, since they all have a maximum load
of five courses. The best way to take our place among them is, as Dean Williams knows, to foster the
conditions for creative teaching that have given them their reputations. A balance among classroom hours, time with individuals...

See Course on page 7

Basketball Team Thanks Students

To the editors,

The men’s basketball team and coaching staff extend their gratitude to the many fans who cheered us on throughout this
past season. The encouraging words and the vocal support from faculty, staff, administrators, and students remained ever-present sources of inspiration.
Even when we found ourselves away from the friendly confines of Belk Arena, we had the pleasure of looking into
the stands and seeing the familiar faces of so many Wildcat fans. Special thanks to those who joined us at
the VMI game and the Conference Tournament in Asheville. Our seniors, J.D., Matt, and Detlef, will always cherish the memory
of the fond farewell that they received at the final home game. The underclassmen will be seeking to build upon
the momentum of this year’s successful return to Southern Conference play. We all are ever grateful for your support and
inspiration.

Sincerely,
The Wildcat Men’s Basketball Players and Coaches

Parent Harper Quotes Nietzsche

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian
requests that letters to the editor be no longer than 300 words and reserves the right to edit all letters.
In addition, no unsigned letters will be published. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student
Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial
Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the
Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

I have been reading with bemusement and consternation about the recent controversy surrounding Athletic Director Terry Holland and the women’s
basketball team. Although the episode seemed to some to imply an egregious error on Mr. Holland’s part, it paled in
comparison to Oklahoma State University and Colorado University, two top twenty women’s teams, having to play a scheduled game in
a high school gymnasium because of a high school wrestling tournament being scheduled at the college facility. Like it or
not, it takes significant amounts of money to maintain a college athletic program, and occasionally small sacrifices must be made
to aid fundraising. As I understand it, two professors who complained bitterly about the Davidson incident (on the grounds of
sexism) were willing to accept the money obtained if it were channeled into academic programs. When our son was going
through the college selection process, one of the things that distinguished Davidson from other outstanding academic institutions was the fact
that Davidson offered a total, more well-rounded college experience. While academics rightly was first and foremost, athletics and social life
were integral offerings for students at Davidson. The athletic program was unique in that it offered the opportunity for student
athletes, almost all of whom participated without athletic scholarships, the opportunity to pursue a level of excellence in conditions which
let them strive to be the best they could be within the true spirit of college athletics. Friedrich Nietzsche once
warned, “Be careful lest in casting out your demons, you cast out that which is best in you.” The Davidson
College experience is a total, well-rounded one. While no one would argue that athletics is the most important aspect of
college life, the Davidson community had best tread softly if they are considering labeling athletics and social life demons.

Sincerely,
David L. Harper, M.D.
