10 As I See It
THE DAVIDSONIAN — OPINIONS
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1993

A special thank you to a permanent fixture in Davidson life

This week I am sad to report the passing of another Davidson classic. In a couple of weeks, Norton’s Barber Shop, which has been a fixture in downtown Davidson since 1912, will close down. Mr. Norton is retiring to do the things he loves, like spending time with his grandchildren and working with the Boy Scouts of America. I understand why Mr. Norton is retiring, but I hate to see him go. In fact, most everyone hates to see him go. You see, Mr. Norton is more than just a barber; he is a part of life in Davidson.

For example, Sandy Carnegie, former head of the Wild Cat Club, gets his haircut from Norwood at Norton’s. He used to take his son, Sandy Carnegie Jr., to Norton’s. Today, Sandy Carnegie Jr. takes his son, Prosser, to get a haircut at Norton’s. Three generations of Carnegies have gone to Norton’s to get a haircut and to hear a story or two.

I didn’t grow up in Davidson, but I’ve been going to Norton’s for two years now. I don’t know what I’m going to do when he retires. Mr. Norton found a replacement, but Joe Poteat, who owns the building, decided to turn the Barber Shop into a gnome shop. Great, that’s all downtown Davidson needs: another gnome shop.

I could go to Pott’s Barber Shop in Cornelius. Pott’s is like the barber shop in the movie “Coming To America.” (“Joe Lewis was the greatest fighter of all time!”) Everyone is constantly jabbering, and you’ll probably get a headache as well as a haircut. Norton’s is much more laid back. You just sit down and talk about anything that is on your mind. Or you might hear one of Norton’s world-famous stories. I love to hear about his grandchildren and how his garden is doing. When he’s done, you pay him $6 plus a dollar or two tip, and head towards the door. Just before you get to the door you will hear those familiar words, “Call again.”

In a few weeks, there will be nothing left of the barber shop but a memorial in the sidewalk which reads “NORTON BARBER SHOP IN HONOR OF HOOD AND KEN NORTON 1912-1993.” It is impossible for me to do justice to what Mr. Norton has meant to me and to the people of Davidson. He is a barber, a storyteller, a listening ear, and a friend. One thing I do know is that the people who know him will never be the same. Thank you, Mr. Norton.

Sleepyhead
By Tony Tuntasit

I used to fake sleep in Mrs. Kubicki’s kindergarten class. I would lie in my green mosquito mesh cot in the basic five-year-old fetal position: turned on my right side, legs splayed in every which direction, eyes squeezed tight except for the occasional peek at Heather Green, and arms resting comfortably in a cubby. I pretended to be asleep because I remembered that the American Medical Association recommends that a healthy normal five-year-old should get at least twenty minutes of fake sleep per day and that I couldn’t go to recess if I didn’t pretend.

Nowadays I act as if “Monopoly Supply Curves” are actually holding my attention when I’m actually hoping to hop back into bed. So to alleviate this situation, I propose that Naptime 100 (Slumber 201 for those with AP Credit) should be added to the Davidson curriculum. Imagine seeing this report card:

Anthropology 101 B- 2.70
Biology 112 B+ 3.30
Sociology 101 C 2.00
Slumber 201 A++* 5.00
* Tony is an exceptional sleeper. He snores though.

Sleepiness is one of the top causes of lost time among college students, second only to death by otters. Last year about 1.43 billion hours of prepaid school time was lost by students who simply woke up and said, “Boy, I’d like to go to Chemistry 301 today but I’m just too darn (yawn) sleepy... SNNNNKXTT...”

Lack of sleep affects all college students but it is especially rampant among the freshmen halls because freshmen have a very dulled concept of sleep management. Thus freshmen are always looking for something to do at very dumb hours of the night. Here is the typical daily freshman schedule of things to do:

9:00 am Wake up.
10:00 am-11:00 pm Miscellaneous/nothing.
11:05 pm Kick soccer ball in hall.
11:09 pm Kick soccer ball through window.
11:09 pm-12:00 am Throw frisbee in hall.
12:00 am-1:00 am Throw football in hall.
1:00 am-2:00 am Throw geek in hall.
2:05 am-3:00 am Pull fire alarm. Accidentally of course.
3:00 am-9:00 am Sleep.

I’d have to admit though that my sleepings are not of a responsible collegian either. My late nights are often divided between those silly talk show guys Dave, Jay, Arsenio, Chevy, Beavis, Salaman, Ralph, and Bill. But I’ve alleviated my deprivative sleeping patterns by taking the periodic power nap throughout the day. The power nap was originated by the Ancient Spaniards who lived in a land called España. They, too, suffered from a lack of sleep due to exciting late-night talk show wars (The Catholic vs. The Protestants) and thus began the tradition of taking a siesta (derived from the Spanish word seis meaning six) during the afternoon so they could continue watching the melee. I think that the Spaniards are onto something. If we don’t get to sleep as an elective, Davidson should at least institute...the Davidson siesta, a mandatory period of nappage during the day. Imagine the national publicity, the outpouring of endowments, the accolades, and the increased enrollment. I can hear the trustees giggling right now. I’d like to tell you more about this pinnacle of innovation but I’m tired. And I’m going to take a nap. Now, tell me, exactly what is he talking about?

Rude continued from page 9

To reach full-scale rambling. OK. While we are on the topic of parties and how lame this campus is getting, I want to remind everyone that school is not just a time for studying. Now, I can hear the members of the Executive Committee saying, “Great, this kid hasn’t learned a thing about school. He’s still immature and he’s not taking responsibility for his actions.” But that’s not true. Never forget that, unfortunately, you are here first and foremost as a student. However, besides studying, part of being a “well-rounded student” is being social and going out, and going to the Outpost at eleven o’clock doesn’t count unless you are as drunk as a wombat. (Do wombats drink? If they do, they’re cool.)

You know as I write I begin to understand that this little column is not really designed for older people. I mean let’s face it, by the time you are thirty, basically all you have going for you is the fact that your kids may get in trouble with the law in the future and you can live vicariously through all of that. So keep that in mind and go out and piss the RLO Office (redundant) off, because if you don’t, the most exciting part of their day is replacing light bulbs in the bathroom and maybe catching a glimpse of a little tush. I guess that is the end of this week’s little rambling deal. So just go out and do your part and get drunk and throw up on some other hall than you live on and while you are running out the door, pull the fire alarm. But, no matter what, don’t forget to take your core requirements.

You and me and MTV
By Holley Wilson

You like MTV. Shut up, don’t deny it. Okay, here, I’ll help you out with this little bit of self-examination. Let’s make this a group confessional. I like MTV. In fact, I adore it. I am writing this while firmly planted in a La-Z-Boy in a beer-can-strewn living room watching, for the third time since Thursday, the Tenth Annual MTV Music Awards. Wow. At what other formal awards ceremony can the winners slouch up to accept their awards dressed worse than I am on Sunday morning, armed with acceptance speeches such as “Best Hard Rock? I thought we were Grunge” (Pearl Jam), and “Thanks for the Space Guy” (Stone Temple Pilots)? Where else could Madonna and Janet Jackson perform acts on stage that our parents were warned would lead them straight to unwanted pregnancy, not to mention Hell? Award presenter Snoop Doggy-Dogg turned himself in two days after the ceremony as an accomplice in a gang-related murder. And thousands upon thousands of the young, beautiful, and certifiably cool rallied to support a fat, bespectacled little girl in a bee suit tap dancing, for crying out loud. Is the Bee Girl our new Muse of Hipness?

Well, I’d say the Music Revolution is pretty much over. My mother, no doubt, would take one look at these glimpses of Planet MTV and be horrified. “A fine advertisement for the youth of today,” she’d say, “I’m canceling the cable subscription.” But I don’t think God, in His infinite wisdom, created MTV for my mother. If He did, I’d find it concrete proof that He has one hell of a sense of humor. Nope, MTV was put here on this fine planet just for you and me. That’s how I know you like it.

But my ultimate point here is that MTV in all of its self-impressed, shallow opulence is still the hallowed touchstone of our generation. Why do we laugh at “Beavis and Butthead?” Because they are rather complimentary caricatures of our apathetic, ignorant, pyromaniacal selves. On a somewhat less self-abasing note, don’t you feel even the tiniest bit of pride swelling in your heart when you hear that the ’92 Presidential Election had the highest young voter turnout ever? “Rock the Vote.” Enough said.

An interesting thing to note is that the MTV generation is actually old enough to vote. Look back at the impact we had on the ’92 election. Look around at all of us flannel-wearing, body-piercing, Lollapaloozers. Think of how much fun we could have. Think of how much damage we could do. That translates into responsibility. The future is, believe it or not, falling into our hands. We need to understand our own goals and values as a generation. The media is a good monitor of the collective state of mind. MTV is, if nothing else, a monitor at which you can glance and see what the Twentysomethings are up to this week. Also, if you wait long enough, a good Pearl Jam video will come on, and then you can drool over Eddie Vedder. You like Eddie Vedder. Don’t deny it.