12 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1993 __ARTS

An interview with BD, Davidson Alumnus and REM lawyer

In the spring of 1980, in the college town of Athens, Georgia, one of the greatest rock groups America has
ever produced began playing a unique style of jangly guitar pop. Back then, when R.E.M.’s audiences rarely numbered beyond 100,
a Georgia Law student and Davidson College alumnus named Bertis Downs frequently watched their shows. He has not left them
since. If you want to know how important he is as the lawyer for R.E.M., look at the liner notes
inside one of the seven million copies of their year-old album Automatic For the People, or any of their other
albums: “R.E.M.: Bill Berry, Peter Buck, Mike Mills, Michael Stipe (and) Bertis Downs, Jefferson Holt.” I spoke with him over
fall break in his office at the Georgia Law School, where he teaches entertainment law part-time.

Davidsonian: I thought I’d start by asking you about Davidson, you having gone there from 1974 to 1978. What was
it like then?

BD: My perception is that there were probably a lot of similarities to the way it is now. It had
just gone co-ed the year before, and we were one of the first classes that was co-ed from the beginning.
Little Library had just opened. The basketball team was sort of at the end of its best years...

Davidsonian: Have you been back?

BD: Once in a while, yes.

Davidsonian: Any big changes?

BD: Mostly I’ve noticed exterior, physical changes... some new buildings. I’m also amazed at how the lakeside communities have boomed,
Cornelius particularly, with that big intersection. It’s interesting to see how the town of Davidson has held on to its
character and avoided development. It’s very rare to see that, very distinctive.

Davidsonian: What were you interested in then?

BD: Academically I was pretty sure I wanted to be a lawyer, so I took classes to get a good
grounding and improve my writing—like Humanities. And I majored in history.

Davidsonian: Do you remember any professors you liked?

BD: Malcolm Partin was my adviser... David Shi was new back then.

Davidsonian: He left this year.

BD: Really? I remember him well.

Davidsonian: Were you involved with music at all then?

BD: Yeah, I was on the Union’s concert committee. The 900 Room had just started as a venue and Love
Auditorium was a big place for shows. I did a rock-oriented show on WDAV when they were still not all
classical.

Davidsonian: Where did you grow up?

BD: The suburbs of Atlanta—Decatur.

Davidsonian: What went on when you came back to Georgia?

BD: Well, I basically just studied all the first year, then the second year was when I first saw R.E.M.,
in the spring of ’80. I had been thinking about legal services and poverty law at that time. I got
out of law school in ’81 and taught here in Athens for a couple of years, and then spent a
year in Washington, D.C. working for a judge. By 1984 I came back here to resume teaching at the University
and working for the band. By then it had gotten to a point where I was fairly busy with their
work. It was starting to...

Davidsonian: Go somewhere?

BD: Yes. Around their second album, Reckoning.

Davidsonian: I read once that you sort of took the band aside and suggested that they get... organized, business-wise...

BD: People have credited me with suggesting that they start taking this thing seriously as a business because they could
go a long way, and this was at a point that they hadn’t thought about more than the next few
shows they were going to play. People have been kind in crediting me as someone who said, “you guys ought
to have a business-like approach now because it will bear fruit later on.”

Davidsonian: Did they think you were sort of killing the spirit of it all?

BD: No. They knew I was a friend and a fan. They took it as a word to the wise.

Davidsonian: So you really felt then that they had more than a few good tunes and a look?

BD: Yeah, there was something special—a great songwriting ability and performing ability and a friendship between the four of them
that was special. One thing I thought was a good sign was that when I first saw them and didn’t
know their set list well, it was hard to distinguish the originals from the covers; they were that good already
and they didn’t even use many of those songs for albums.

Davidsonian: Things picked up, but not too fast...

BD: As a fan I guess you know that it’s been a gradual rise, very stairstep, with no big jolts
where they were sudden stars. They’ve always done well at every level.

Davidsonian: Was there ever a time you said to yourself, “My God, we’re too big to stay here.”

---

Hwy 21 South, Cornelius
Dine-In or Take-Out Only
Only one coupon per couple per visit. As a courtesy to guests dining alone this coupon is redeemable for $1.50.
This coupon is not redeemable with any other coupon.g lust bring in this coupon for offer to be valid. Offer
expires: 11-24-93 892-3362

We’ll have to move to L.A. or New York...”

BD: No, there was never any serious talk about moving. With the right communications, they didn’t need to be in
L.A. with all its pressures and higher standard of living.

Davidsonian: I guess that’s much to their advantage.

BD: It’s key, definitely. This is a kind of outpost where they can stay with their roots. And there’s clearly
less pressure with the business so far away.

Davidsonian: Is that the same for you, Jefferson Holt (the band’s manager), and the R.E.M. office?

BD: It would be easier for us to be there for business purposes, but our work is with the band
and we get our work done here just fine.

Davidsonian: How has your personal life been affected? Are you a celebrity in town?

BD: No, but I’m not in the band. They keep a pretty low profile and people usually don’t disturb them.
And there’s less trouble for me—I’m just the lawyer!

Davidsonian: How much of your work is with the band?

BD: When I’m teaching entertainment law and sports law, about 20 percent at the University of Georgia and 80 percent
with R.E.M. I also teach some seminars for the American Bar Association.

Davidsonian: Do you help them... artistically?

BD: No. They jokingly say, when I make a suggestion, that they are thankful they don’t have to take my
musical advice. They continue to jealously make all those decisions alone with Scott Litt as the producer. It’s almost all
just those five guys.

Davidsonian: Automatic for the People was the fourth album made with Scott Litt. I’m guessing it won’t be the last...

BD: They respect him a lot and the albums are true collaborations with him. I guess if you consider me
and Jefferson as an extension of the band in a business sense, then Scott is the fifth member of R.E.M:
artistically, definitely.

Davidsonian: Was there any record that has stuck out, either as a favorite or as a learning experience?

BD: Not really any in particular. The issues that come up with me for each record are much the same...
I personally like their last one; I think Automatic is very strong.

Davidsonian: Though it didn’t sell as well as Out of Time...

BD: Well, it’s not over yet but it didn’t top Out of Time and may never. Out of Time has
sold 10 million worldwide and Automatic is up to 7 million.

Davidsonian: Do you think they gain in credibility what they lost in sales, with all of Automatic’s ecstatic reviews?

BD: Oh, yeah, they’re not worried at all. It was good that people didn’t perceive the record as Out of
Time’s follow-up, which, officially, it was. People seemed to see quickly that they hadn’t just attempted to write a couple
of songs just like the hits on Out of Time.

Davidsonian: What do you think is in their future—does it involve them all together?

BD: I think they figure there’s still good songs out there to be written, and as long as they are
enjoying it and adding to their body of work... Also, they do more things outside the band—Michael [Stipe] is into
film and Pete [Buck] works with other bands, for example—so that they come back together refreshed. In fact, they took
almost the whole year of 1993 off. And the plans are to get back together early in 1994 to start
on a new record.

Davidsonian: What have been the most euphoric moments working with them, someone you met or something that happened...

BD: The week Out of Time went to number one on the charts, just because...

Davidsonian: ...you were...

BD: Yeah, there we were, credibility intact. They were still doing what they wanted to do. Also, I got to
meet Neil Young a couple of times, and that was special because he has always been a favorite of mine
for... over 20 years, really. He’s always made good songs, and he’s always done things his way, without regard to
record release dates or pressures placed upon him by others.

Davidsonian: And he continues to make good music today...

BD: Definitely, straight on through.

Davidsonian: Would you say he’s similar to R.E.M. in that he always follows his instincts, and is stubborn, and makes
the best music that way?

BD: Yes. They reason that their collective instincts have brought them this far. They are very stubborn.

Davidsonian: I guess it’s to their credit some risks they’ve taken... like, they could have toured for Automatic and outsold
Out of Time, but they didn’t because they didn’t want to...

BD: Sure could have.

Davidsonian: But then again, I’m kind of a biased R.E.M. fan.

BD: Me too.

PURCHASE YOUR TICKETS NOW!
November 5, 1993 8:15 p.m.
Love Auditorium

The Union & Cultural Events Committee present Chuck Davis and the African-American Dance Ensemble

Supported by: BSC, Love of Learning, Harmony Committee, Dean Rusk Program

Students: $3.00
Purchase at the Union ticket office, 2-5:00 p.m., M-F.
