THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1993

Men's Hoops

and, in a crowd, launched his 25-foot shot with seven seconds to go. The ball bounded off the rim and
seemed headed off, but came back down and somehow rattled in. Davidson called timeout at :03. The Wildcats’ set play
out of the timeout worked perfectly, except for the shot. Heuer’s inbounds pass found Williams at halfcourt, and he passed
to Zimmerman at the top of the key. His three-pointer to tie the game bounced deep off the rim. Davidson’s
offense was relatively effective throughout, and Detlef Musch led five players in double figures with 20 points and 15 rebounds.
But when they needed to, the ‘Cats never found a way to stop Ross, who answered every Davidson surge. The
last of those came at about the six-minute mark, when Heuer scored on the low block, assisted by Jeff Anderson,
for a 69-65 Davidson lead. But Ross hit a three-pointer 12 seconds later to make it 69-68, and the game
went down to the wire.

“We just let Ross get too many looks at the basket,” said Davidson coach Bob McKillop. “It’s really disappointing because
we put ourselves in a position to win and didn’t close the door.”

Wednesday night’s game at UT-Chattanooga hinged on the ejection of the Mocs’ Gary Robb midway through the second half. Spurred
by a home crowd angry over Robb’s dismissal, the Mocs (20-6, 13-2) erased a five-point Davidson lead, took a small
lead of their own, and took a 95-80 win with free throws down the stretch. Robb’s downfall began with the
Wildcats up 51-47 with 12:28 left. UTC point guard Tim Brooks made a three-pointer to make it 51-50, and after
the shot was knocked down by Robb, who claimed to have been pushed. Robb vented his frustration by first fouling
and then shoving the ‘Cats’ Chris Alpert to draw one technical foul, and then cursing out the referee to get
a second (an automatic ejection). Narat made all four technical free throws to give Davidson a 65-60 advantage, but by
then you could see it coming. The crowd, feeling its team to be the victim of a gross injustice, had
worked itself into a frenzy, and swept the UTC players with it. On the game’s next four possessions, the Wildcats
were called for two offensive and two defensive fouls. The Mocs tied the game on Tee Jay Jackson’s three-point play
and Brandon Born’s two foul shots. Born’s steal and dunk at 6:55 completed a 12-2 run and gave UTC a
69-62 lead that proved to be enough. Narat, who finished with a game-high 24, got Davidson within 81-75 on a
baseline jumper with 1:22 left, but then the ‘Cats were forced to foul to stop the clock, and the Mocs
(75% from the line as a team) didn’t crack. In all, UTC hit 14 of 14 foul shots in the
last 1:34. Davidson shot 58% from the field and 82% from the line (14-17), and got effective games from its
top three scorers. Musch scored 21 and Zimmerman 15. So despite the loss, McKillop was pretty pleased. “I thought we
played pretty darn well,” he said. “Our effort was outstanding, our execution was good. I was delighted with our performance.”
For UTC coach Mack McCarthy, Robb’s ejection and its aftermath was the difference. “I don’t know if we win without
that. We really turned it up, thanks to the crowd, in response to Gary getting ejected,” he said.

Davidson, 9-4 at Belk Arena after the loss to Appalachian, closed its home season yesterday against East Tennessee State. It
concludes its regular season next weekend at Marshall and VMI. Entering Sunday’s game, the

Women's Tennis Preview

By Patrick Jopling

The Davidson women’s tennis team began its eighteenth season last weekend with the Wildcat Doubles Classic at Knobloch Tennis Center.
Caroline Price’s team is returning all of its top six players from last year’s Big South Conference Runner-Up squad, and
they look to make their re-entrance into the Southern Conference a successful one. Leading the Cats will be junior Cindy
Hess, who has occupied the top spot of the Davidson lineup since her arrival here three yearsWildcats were clinging to
a fifth-place tie in the conference standings. A top-six finish is of vital importance, since the bottom four teams must
participate in a play-in round to advance to the conference tournament itself. See "Sports Shorts" for coverage of the East
Tennessee St. game. Her mental toughness and consistency make her one of the top players in the entire conference. Hess
will play number one singles and team up with sophomore Kimberley Nance to play number one doubles as well. Nance’s
power is a perfect complement to Hess’ game, and it makes these two a tough team to beat. Nance also
looks to make an impact in the singles lineup. Talented juniors Jennifer Beahm and Tasha Ruth give Coach Price experience
and emotional leadership. The final two members of last year’s top six include sophomore Nicole Wilcox and junior Barbara Grooms.
Wilcox won a conference title and had a 30+ victory season at number five singles last year. Adding to this
depth are newcomers Susannah Cobb and Sarah Heer. Cobb is a transfer from Peace College, a junior college powerhouse, and
Heer is a top freshman from Zurich, Switzerland. Both of these women have a strong chance of cracking the top
six, and the combination of these eight players gives Coach Price numerous options going into Southern Conference competition. The team
to beat is Furman. The Paladins beat Davidson handily last year, but look for this year’s match to be much
closer. The Wildcats appear to be a close second in the preseason poll. The other schools that could make a
run at the title are an improved Marshall team and East Tennessee State. The 1984 women’s team at Davidson won
the Division III national championship and this team is potentially stronger. Southern Conference competition is tougher than Division III competition,
and the Wildcats have a chance at the title. The dedication and talent of this team could make it one
of Davidson’s best ever. The final element in the women’s tennis team is new assistant coach John Beyer. Beyer graduated
last year after starring for four years for the men’s team. His tennis acumen and insight should help the team
considerably as they shoot for a Southern Conference Championship.

Sports Shorts

MEN’S HOOPS UPSETS EAST TENNESSEE STATE
In the last home game for Davidson senior basketball players, they played inspired and pulled off a 90-75 upset. Detlef
Musch, one of the seniors, played a tremendous game with numerous dunks and blocks. The ‘Cats are gaining valuable confidence
with the Southern Conference Tournament beginning in one week.

WOMEN’S TENNIS
Behind 4-2, the ‘Cats managed to sweep the three doubles matches and defeat Georgia Tech by a 5-4 margin. Tasha
Ruth and Barbara Grooms were up 5-0 in the third set in the deciding doubles match and held off a
furious Georgia Tech rally and won 6-4 to clinch the match. A day earlier, the ‘Cats lost to the College
of Charleston 6-3. Their current record is 4-1.

MEN’S RUGBY
The Davidson men’s rugby team battled Hampden-Sydney, however Hampden-Sydney was too tough and they prevailed. Next week the ‘Cats will
return home to face the Duke Blue Devils.

Compiled by Robert Lloyd-Still

Study abroad in Stockholm, THE SWEDISH PROGRAM STOCKHOLM UNIVERSITY
European history, public policy, politics, health care, the revolution in Eastern Europe, economics, film, Scandinavian literature, environmental law, international relations,
women and equality. Live with a Swedish family or in a university dormitory. Witness the dramatic changes reshaping Europe on
our excursions to Berlin and Budapest. For more information contact your Study Abroad Advisor or The Swedish Program office at
Hamilton College, Clinton, New York 13323. Instruction is in English. Course offerings are diverse, for example: women and equality, environmental
law, international relations, Scandinavian literature, policy, politics, health care, the revolution in Eastern Europe, economics, film. Live with a Swedish
family or in a university dormitory. Witness the dramatic changes reshaping Europe on our excursions to Berlin and Budapest. For
more information contact your Study Abroad Advisor or The Swedish Program office at Hamilton College, Clinton, New York 13323.

"TWO" THAT'S "TWO" or Pizza's. ONE LARGE PIZZA ONE PLAIN CHEESE FOUR TOPPINGS. Buckets of Spaghetti Now Available For $9.
Includes Garlic Bread. Gourmet Diggs & Subs THE BEST... THIS SIDE OF ITALY. Free Delivery. 5 Mile Maximum, $10.00 Minimum.
8301 Magnolia Estates Hwy 73 W.
