THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 1993 13 DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

‘Cats Hoops Getting Back on Track
Men's Victories Over VMI and Citadel Put Team in Conference Race
By Bruce Balestier

Entering an afternoon contest with league foe Marshall yesterday at Belk Arena, the Davidson basketball team’s record stood at 6-7.
Their 3-3 mark in Southern Conference play, boosted by consecutive home wins over VMI and The Citadel, had earned them
fifth place in the league standings through Saturday’s action. What follows is a review of the games which have taken
place since Christmas Break began.

Clemson 93 Davidson 77
December 21 in Clemson, S.C., the Tigers broke open a close game late in the first half with pressure defense.
Clemson took a 40-29 halftime lead and coasted in behind athletic forward Devin Gray (20 points). Despite some turnovers against
the Clemson press, Wildcat freshman walk-on point guard Chris Alpert, in just his second start, turned in a poised performance
(eight points, six rebounds, four assists). Janko Narat led Davidson (3-1) with 16 points.

Wake Forest 71 Davidson 52
In the first game of the Coca Cola Classic doubleheader at Charlotte Coliseum December 28, Davidson held future NBA Lottery
pick Rodney Rogers of Wake to just 10 points and fouled him out, but never recovered from a 14-2 Deacon
run that started the game. Jason Zimmerman’s steal and three-point play midway through the second half drew the ‘Cats within
49-39, but three straight dry possessions after that sealed their fate. Zimmerman had 13 points.

UNC-Charlotte 95 Davidson 57
After taking a 6-3 lead on three hoops by center Detlef Musch, Davidson simply fell apart against the 49ers January
3 at the Coliseum. The Wildcats shot 30.6% for the game, and the UNCC lead grew and grew and grew.
Even 49er coach Jeff Mullins admitted that the game was an aberration. “They’re better than that, and we know that
the next time we play [February 10 at Davidson] they’ll be a different team,” he said.

Davidson 81 Western Carolina 69
See "Hoops" on page 14

Bishop Sets Davidson Track Record in Indoor 5000 Meters
By Pete Hurtado

The women’s track and field team began its winter campaign with strong efforts from the entire squad, including two new
school records at the Lynchburg Invitational and the Comfort Inn Invitational at Virginia Tech. “The women are performing great, especially
for this early in the season,” claimed coach Beth Manson.

Sophomore Elizabeth Bishop led the Wildcats with a school record performance of 18:42.3 in the 5000m, placing second. Bishop also
recorded an outstanding 3000m time of 11:21.8. The 4x100m relay squad of Maria Whitehead, Sarah Orsbon, Heather Tarpley, and Helisse
Hoffman posted a school-record time of 57.55 at Lynchburg, placing fourth.

Sophomore Carolyn Meadows clocked an impressive 3000m time of 11:13.2, more than 10 seconds faster than her previous best. Sophomore
Maria Whitehead had excellent efforts in the long jump (13' 5") and the triple jump (33' 7"). Whitehead also had
the fastest 400m time on the team at 66.3. Senior captain Heather Tarpley ran an impressive 500m time of 1:24.2.
Junior Karen Marshall also posted an excellent 800m time of 2:30.8. In the shot put, Erika Gromelski recorded a fine
distance of 28' 1" to become one of Davidson’s best ever in that event. In the 4x800m, Karen Marshall (2:33)
and Carolyn Meadows (2:35) led the squad of Marshall, Meadows, DeMoss, and Marie Grisez to a fine time of 10:51.
In the 400m, Sarah Orsbon and Julie Rannik showed consistent improvement in the first two weeks of the season. A
special thanks to Julie Timmons, Andrea Short, and Jennie Wagner for participating and running well for the Wildcats.

Coach Manson was very pleased with the early efforts of the women, and is confident that their steady improvement will
mean a big payoff at the Southern Conference Championships.

Photo by Casey Rogers
Freshman walk-on point guard ChrisAlpert drives to the lane for a basket in the ‘Cats victory over the Citadel.

Wrestling Places 4th in Home Tournament
By Steve Krause

Davidson wrestling can be characterized as both young and restless. While starting seven freshmen and three sophomores, the Wildcats have
shown steady improvement with each match and they enthusiastically persevere into the future.

Last weekend, Davidson hosted a five-way dual meet with Pensacola, The Citadel, Longwood, and Carson Newman. The Wildcats finished fourth
but showed improvement from previous matches. The Wildcat victory was a 45-9 trouncing of Pensacola. Davidson received excellent performances from
Bo Bartholomew, Miller Cary, and Jared Glick.

Against Carson Newman and The Citadel, coach Tom Oddo cited inexperience for the losses. “We're a very young team,” he
said. “We were beaten by inexperience and size. Their wrestlers in the higher weight classes were bigger, more mature, and
were able to control the matches.”

However, against Longwood, Davidson was beaten in the last matchup and lost 30-22. Oddo called the defeat “a good indication
of the development of our team.” In December, Davidson wrestled Longwood and lost 9 of 10 matches. Oddo singles out
performances such as freshman Jason Deaton’s as examples of Davidson’s rapid improvement. “Jason lost to the Longwood kid in December
in his first dual match. Last weekend, he absolutely controlled the match,” Oddo said.

A luxury which Coach Oddo enjoys is the enthusiastic attitude of his wrestlers. “I find as tough competition as possible,”
he said. “Our wrestlers understand the only way they’ll improve is to get as much mat time as possible. For
example, freshman Miller Cary is willing to wrestle anyone who will step onto the mat with him in any weight
class.”

The Davidson wrestling team is excited about its future. With each match, the Wildcats continue to gain experience and maturity.
In store for the remainder of the season are three more tournaments, a variety of dual matches, and an anticipated
rematch with Longwood. This weekend, the Wildcats were at Washington and Lee for a tournament with such teams as VMI,
W&L, Longwood, Washington and Jefferson.

John Roos’ Buzzer-Beating Shot Tops Winthrop
By Chris Hood

Jennifer Roos couldn’t have picked a better time to hit her first three-pointer of the season. Davidson called time out
with six seconds remaining Saturday evening and Winthrop’s Revonda Whitley heading to the line for two attempts. She made the
second to give the Eagles a 62-61 advantage, only their second lead of the contest.

“Coach Filar worked something up during the time out, but we didn’t run it,” the senior grinned. “I was going
to push it up and dish off to a wing, but I didn’t see them, and I saw the clock.”
Roos’ shot rattled around before falling through the hoop as time expired, sparking hysterics among most of the crowd. An
elated Davidson team and a stunned Winthrop club looked to the scoreboard, which read 64-62, with no time remaining. The
victory raised Davidson’s record to 5-8.

“They did a fantastic job down the stretch,” Davidson head coach John Filar said after the game. “I couldn’t have
asked them to have done better.”

Though the ‘Cats led nearly the entire match, rebounds nearly cost them the victory. Winthrop earned a 53-25 bulge on
the boards, constantly outmuscling the home team. As has been the case throughout the season, freshmen dominated nearly every statistical
category for Davidson. Erin Butcher continued her offensive assault, racking up 28 points. Without Kristen Ferrucci, Lisa Lyons, and Katrina
O’Neal, all out with injuries, Davidson has found its go-to force in Butcher.

“Kristen was a major contribu-

See "Roos" on page 15

Cashion's Patterson Court Top 5
Based on spirit at home basketball games. End of season winner earns $500 spending spree at Cashion’s.
1. Kappa Sigma
2. Connor
3. Rusk
4. Sigma Phi Epsilon
5. Phi Delta Theta

Bob McKillop’s Fan of the Week
