THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS

Rafael Candelario & Travis Hinson

Imagine. We would like you to take a few minutes out of your busy schedule and...imagine... Imagine what life would
be like if you woke up tomorrow morning and looked into the mirror, only to find that your skin was
now dark brown, and your hair slightly nappy. On the door of your closet is a poster of Malcolm X.
At the bottom of the poster are the words “NO SELL-OUT! NO SELL-OUT!” Can you imagine?

Imagine what it would be like walking to class through the halls of Chambers and feeling like an invisible man.
As if no one knows you exist. And you wonder, does anyone give a damn? Imagine arriving to class before
anyone else and picking out one of the prime seats. As your fellow students arrive in class, you get the
sense that they are trying to avoid sitting near you. You say to yourself, "I don’t smell, I brushed my
teeth; what’s wrong with me?”

Imagine that your class has started. You are well prepared to participate in class. Other students are blurting out answers
and the professor acknowledges each answer as either correct or incorrect. You blurt out your answer and the only response
you get is a strange look from the professor and your fellow students as if they were blaming it on
Texas.

Blame it on Texas: Susanna Young

Why so much complaining? Idiocy? It seems as though, once again, I, the self-proclaimed Champion and Protector of Country Music,
have been called upon to defend the subject matter of my column. And the uncalled-for criticism comes from one of
my fellow columnists! It is my duty to justify myself and my whistling, Arts section counterpart to any of you
who may be inclined to side with the exiled god of Davidsonian opinions.

I won’t try to convince you that country music is deep. It isn’t. I won’t even suggest that the chords
and rhythm are complex. They aren’t. The beauty, the very essence of country music is that it is simple. It
has the same appeal that fairy tales and instant oatmeal have. Listening to and comprehending country music requires no brain,
just like you don’t have to have gone to kindergarten to understand a fairy tale or to cooking class to
follow Wilford Brimley’s instructions. Yeah, the lyrics are shallow and repetitive, so you can sing along. How many casualties have
you heard that resulted from an overly rambunctious Vince Gill concert? Not too many drive-by shootings aggravated by listening to
“Achy, Breaky Heart” backwards. No suicides this week as a result of “Chattahoochee.” How many other forms of musical expression
can claim that?

Okay, so I did admit it. You don’t have to think to appreciate country. I know I don’t. So why
listen? The answer is easy. Don’t we do enough thinking around here?!! I mean, the library is open longer than
the Union, folks. That’s idiocy. One more thing. Country music was around long before NASCAR, so any association of the
two is rather unfair. So you see, Mr. Frampton, the word is simple, not stupid. And you’ll never get Bill
Gullan to admit that he likes it.

Exile: Chris Frampton

I can predict your future. What’s wrong with you? Just wondering. When I was a little kid I lived in
Virginia with my parents (who I don’t live with anymore—pretty scary), and one year, when I was about five, I
went to a father-son camp with my dad. (I mention this only because I could have gone with someone else’s
father.) The camp was in West Virginia which is a lot like Virginia, only more West. Anyway, while I was
there I learned that I have a supernatural power, and I noticed the other day that we didn’t have a
horoscope in the paper so I figured I’d write one.

Scorpio: Emphasis on transferring to another school. Thoughts of love are pointless—may even fry your brain if you don’t fry
it first trying to forget that your pet hamster was run over by a Mack Truck. (Poor fellow—never had a
chance.)

Sagittarius: Hand crushed in ice machine at Union. Swelling refuses to go down and doctors have to amputate. You don’t
care—love scaring friends with fake handshake trick.

Capricorn: You can do almost anything you want to even though you won’t. This is a good time to save
money because you need to buy a life, not to mention pay your phone sex bills.

Aquarius: Focus on showering. People will continue to avoid you until you get rid of that smell. Doesn’t matter though,
no amount of brushing will fix your bad breath.

Pisces: You will be in the wrong place at the wrong time. Watch out for stray bullets and burning arrows.
Test you aren’t prepared for will come at wrong time (i.e. three weeks ago.) Your love life is in shambles
or, more to the point, your future is looking rosier and rosier.

Aries: Doors previously closed are now bolted shut. You are nothing.

Taurus: Individual will say that the Trustees visit the campus. You just happen to bump into some of the older
trustees and the first question they all ask you is “What sport do you play?”

Imagine going to a party on...else that did not look like you had said, “How the hell did you know
that?” If you’re a male, a certain group of females seems to be preoccupied with your presence. If you’re a
female, everyone seems to flat out ignore you. This is, of course, only until everyone gets drunk. Even though it’s
not your normal practice, do you drink to fit in with the crowd? Imagine being so frustrated with this situation
that you feel the world is totally against you. You don’t realize that there is a small minority of students
who may be experiencing the same. But you feel as though a large majority of the student body would never
be able to understand.

Imagine every time you spoke up about an injustice that pertained directly to you or people like you, someone was
always trying to prove you wrong. Someone who could never understand your problems. By the end of the class period,
you’re too intimidated to say anything else. Do you think you would feel like going to see that professor? Imagine
going into the cafe expecting to see a friendly face, someone you can relate to. Only to find that these
are the same faces you went to class with. The same ones who don’t acknowledge your existence unless they are
drunk. Do you think you would feel like you belong here?

Imagine that you’re walking across campus and you realize that the only people who look like you and really acknowledge
your presence are custodians and janitors. You have to ask yourself, “Is this a coincidence?” Imagine that it’s the weekend
and you’re so frustrated with this situation that you feel the world is totally against you. You don’t realize that
there is a small minority of students who may be experiencing the same. But you feel as though a large
majority of the student body would never be able to understand.

Imagine many consecutive sleepless nights where all your thoughts are pessimistic, all your feelings are negative, and reality is something
you simply don’t want to deal with. Can you imagine?

Suggested Reading: Invisible Man, by Ralph Ellison

I’m sure there is some poor, narrow-minded soul out there that’s thinking about writing a letter to the editor saying
that this could happen to anyone. Well, you're right. It could happen to anyone; or could it?

BEING SUMMER GAMES ZOO00
Distributed by Tribune Media Services

“I love you.” You will punch individual. Can you say lawsuit? Good, because your former lover’s lawyer can. Doesn’t matter
though, you will be dead before the end of the month. Fishing accident.

Gemini: Concentrate on sense of humor. Really concentrate because you don’t have one. Wash your underwear, because the people who
sit behind you in class are tired of looking at your rear. Also, clean up your room—there is a small
colony of midgets living off the refuse.

Leo: As R.E.M. says, “Life is bigger, it’s bigger than you, and you are not me.” Which I am glad
about because you suck. Spotlight on treating acne—on your back.

Virgo: The world is your oyster. Beauty, fame, fortune, respect, triumph, and lots of money in your future. Just kidding.

Libra: At times, you will wonder about the size of the universe and your role in its complex proceedings. Are
you here to change its course or are you merely caught up in a web spun by idiots? Good dope
is also in your future.

Everyone: Take your core requirements and try to pass them. Thanks to D.T. who wrote a lot of these jokes
a long time ago.

Dave Williard

Homophobia is inexcusable. In his article lambasting gay rights, Bobby Ramsay undermines his argument through contradiction and historical ignorance. Ramsay
writes, “homosexuals should be granted the same rights as the rest of us,” but then he later retracts this statement
in his defense of the rights of businesses. Gay rights “stand in the way of capitalism” because the inability to
discriminate against homosexuals will make it impossible for businesses to respond to consumer taste. Therefore, because the “concerns of American
businesses cannot be overlooked,” justice in the form of gay civil rights should be ignored for the greater good of
conceding to the wishes of homophobic consumers.

Ramsay complains that gay rights will hurt business, but he does not consider the existence of child labor laws, laws
for safe working conditions, and minimum wages, all of which grant rights to individuals at the expense of business profits.
The government, in its attempts to protect its citizens, has had its hand in slashing business profits for years. It
would be hypocritical for the government to protect children but not homosexuals.

And what about this institution of homophobia? Ramsay ignores the historical precedent set by the Civil Rights turmoils of the
late 1950s and 1960s. A lot of people did not approve of desegregation of the schools and the military, but
it was the just thing to do. Although many opposed the Civil Rights Act of 1964, it does not mean
that those racist few were right. Sacrifices have to be made in order to serve justice. If this means that
some people do not like being served by gays, that is their problem. Should a business be able to fire
an employee because consumers do not like the fact that the employee has really short hair? Heterosexuals should not be
so scared of homosexuality; it is an immature, ignorant, and stupid fear.
