OPINIONS 8 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1993

To begin, there are racial tensions everywhere. This is not a cheery way to begin a column, but I don’t think the key to the future lies in the hands of the cheer-mongers. It can be said that in every major U.S. town or city from Los Angeles to Vidor, Texas, racial tensions are brewing. At fall convocation this last weekend, the guest speaker praised multi-culturalism and diversity for diversity’s sake. Perhaps I misunderstood the message, but if not, I gravely disagree. Changing the scholastic canon and being deliberately diverse racially will not make things better, or if they do, it will be by coincidence. I favor liberality of the mind, but I don’t think these ways work. The problem is not that we are different, but that we are discontent.

Terms. This is going to be “sticky.” Simply, there are no terms I can use to please everyone. “Caucasian” is silly — I’ve no relation to the Caucasus mountains. “African-American” is equally problematic. I’ve met first-generation “white” immigrants from Africa. Also, you don’t hear of African-English or African-Canadian. The simplest terms I am left with are “black” and “white,” and I really don’t know what’s best to use. If these are offensive, I apologize; maybe readers could respond to my column suggesting concise and accurate terms.

Rafael and Travis have received much criticism for their writing. I don’t agree with all they say (I am a person of many qualms), but I think they’re onto something. If you are not the solution, you’re the problem. However, I would like to suggest that a stance can be so radical and so “in-your-face” that it can make people who don’t normally care about race uncomfortable and second-guess themselves into a racial faux-pas. However, it genuinely is hard to be in the minority. It is not easy being the single one who looks a different way. One shouldn’t deny that life is difficult for people with experiences unfamiliar to themselves.

And here is something else to consider, have blacks ever been welcomed to America? Have they been welcomed to Davidson? Perhaps there is a reason that some black students here don’t feel like they belong. But the issue is much deeper. Simply, it is hard to be. Life in modern times is harsh all around. I theorize it to be true that the more outwardly different you are, the more outwardly you are alienated, but we are all alienated. Perhaps those racial tensions are manifestations of other tensions. Maybe if everyone recovered their senses of self-worth and felt like they lived in a world where others care, racial tensions would fade.

We don’t feel like we belong. We are taught that we are no damned good. When was the last time you were told that you were worthwhile? Many people, white people, go down on the court just to have some sense of belonging. There is something wrong with this. One shouldn’t have to get smashed to feel like a member of the human race. But, even though I think racial conflicts are part of a subset of a greater malaise, I will conclude by addressing a few symptoms of the disease.

It all comes down to this: you are either my brother, or you are not. No qualifications. You are either my sister, or you are not. This planet is cold enough. If it is decided that we are unequal, then one of us is necessarily better. In that case, my money is on me. And as you might guess, we are likely to disagree. See where the attitude of inequality gets us? So, I say that we are equal. And yes, that means I think inter-racial relationships are okay. I have heard people reason that if God wanted people to mix, God wouldn’t have made us different. That is silly. It is as if to say, “Yes, yes, yes! This is how God wants it! God wants us to hate and fear each other, and must surely be very proud of our well-segregated society.” Maybe these people will next say that if God wanted people to live in harmony, God wouldn’t have given us different opinions. It seems to me that these folk have missed the point of differences. Skin color is not good or bad, it simply is. The business of “well-reasoned” bigotry has got to stop. I crave for the day when matters of reason might be conducted reasonably. We have a rare opportunity here at Davidson. We don’t have to alienate each other. Both blacks and whites can make Davidson a place of trust where everyone feels like they belong.

NICE GOING, address race matters. O.K., so I’m not the best writer in my family and I’m not the original Gull. Anyhow, I’d still like to invite everyone to come hear Prof. Walter Williams on Wednesday night at eight in the Multipurpose Room (the Gallery). Here’s why. He represents diversity. I don’t say this because he is black, but rather because his viewpoint is rarely officially heard at Davidson. Diversity at Davidson too often means the Johnetta Cole’s of the world — liberals who are diverse on sight. In addition to writing his column and teaching his classes, Dr.Williams makes frequent local and national television and radio appearances. As an articulate speaker and keen political observer, Dr. Williams’s opinion is sought out quite often by talk shows. As a matter of fact, when the host was vacationing (fat farm), Dr. Williams was the guest host of the three-hour Rush Limbaugh Radio Program. It will be neat to dine with the voice I’ve heard and the face I’ve seen so many times. I saw him speak this summer at the Young America’s Foundation National Student Leadership Conference. He was very good. In fact, the YAF is co-sponsoring Dr. Williams’s speech with the Union Speakers Committee. The YAF is a non-profit organization that assists students such as myself in bringing conservatives to the campuses to speak. You would not believe how difficult this is at places less tolerant than Davidson. Come to the speech at 8:00 p.m. in the Multipurpose Room of Chambers on Wednesday, November 10. You will truly not regret it. It will be a night of fun, thought, and opinion. Also, I’ll be introducing Dr. Williams and wearing a snazzy new suit!

Dr. Williams is as much like Johnetta Cole or Spike Lee as I am, say, like Annie Kirkland. Sure, we’re both white, but that’s where the similarities end. Dr. Williams, in addition to being one of the most prominent black conservatives in the country, is the John M. Olin Distinguished Professor of Economics at George Mason University in Fairfax, VA. He’s not one of those minorities who are brought in to speak about race relations or gender inequity, as if we think that is all they’re qualified to discuss. He is coming to talk about the role of government in a free society, a subject to which we can all relate. Here’s an excerpt from Dr. Williams’s weekly syndicated column. He’s talking about lawyers and politicians who think that the U.S. Constitution is a “living document” that we can just adapt to fit the complexities of our own individual lives. Williams writes: “Balderdash! A Constitution establishes rules of the game, standards of conduct amongst people and nations.”

Purposeless action. Have you ever stared blankly at your computer screen for an hour when trying to write a paper? Do you ever try so hard studying for a test or playing in an athletic contest that you end up performing worse than you would have without even trying? Have you ever been so infatuated with a person of the opposite sex, that when you run into that person around campus your brain turns to mush and you end up saying something stupid like, “Hi, I’m [your name]. What’s your Rob?” If you answered “yes” to any of these questions, then you are practicing what Chinese Taoists refer to as yu-wei (pronounced you-way). According to Taoists, yu-wei is simply purposeful action. So what’s wrong with purposeful action, you might ask? After all, everything we do here at Davidson seems to have a purpose, and the Davidson tradition seems to emphasize goal setting and doing the little things in order to achieve a larger purpose. By purposeful action, classical Taoists are describing action which becomes so self-conscious that the person becomes anxious and worried about the results, rather than enjoying the journey itself.

I consider myself a bit of an expert on yu-wei. In football, I try so hard that I sometimes end up being so worried about how I am playing that I forget that “playing” is supposed to be fun. In relationships, the moment I start thinking about a woman possibly being more than a friend, I forget how much fun I have with her, and she becomes more of an object of my infatuation. (Sometimes I wish I could go back to that innocent time of note-writing in class—such as last year—where you write, “Will you go with me? - Check yes, no, or maybe.”)

O.K., so it is obvious that we should not practice yu-wei. The opposite of yu-wei is wu-wei (pronounced woo-way; honestly, I’m not making this stuff up!). Wu-wei is simply action without a purpose, or "non-doing." Non-doing doesn’t mean you are necessarily not doing anything, but is more of an attitude or rather lack of an attitude concerning what activity you are doing. Wu-wei means that you are not placing your activity into any category. Rather, you just find contentment in the activity itself, and you just do it without really thinking about it.

When I think of wu-wei, I think of two individuals. The first is Winnie the Pooh. I never thought of Pooh Bear much until I borrowed the book "The Tao of Pooh" from a close friend. Pooh is entirely content being the uncarved block and doing everything he does naturally, without categorizing his activities. The other individual I think of is a friend of mine who plays football with me. Even though we always joke about wu-wei or being the Confucian “great man,” I notice in the way he plays football that he enjoys what he is doing for its own sake. He doesn’t seem to worry about how he is playing because he is just having fun and “playing” like a little kid would play.

Besides enjoying a jar of honey or playing better football, practicing wu-wei can help in so many other areas of our life. Just imagine a world in which everyone practiced wu-wei. We would have no more Caucasians, African Americans, Hispanics, or Orientals. Everyone would just be people. People would no longer constantly strive for that one extra dollar. Everyone would be virtuous and treat others with dignity without being prideful. It might seem like a pipe dream, but just imagine...