THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1993

Sunday in the Park with George entertains and challenges
By Jacob Abraham

Sunday in the Park with George is by no means an easy show to perform: the music is too complicated to be memorable, the storyline is fragmented and often surreal, and the theme of the show is hard to grasp. James Lapine’s complicated story examines the lives of George Seurat and his great-great-grandson, as they struggle with various forces which would pull them away from their work and restrict their artistic vision. Although comedic elements are present throughout the show, Sunday in the Park does not set out merely to entertain, but to challenge its viewers to consider the price of making great art.

The spectacular orchestra pulls off Stephen Sondheim’s carefully crafted score with brilliance, and several outstanding performances from cast members make the musical work. The show opens in the late nineteenth century, as young George Seurat is struggling to breathe life into his fledgling career as a painter. Seurat is a visionary who refuses to be bound by conventional techniques, and consequently never finds much success during his life. Nevertheless, George’s brutally obsessive personality arouses strong emotional responses from everyone around him. His peers both envy his ability and despise his refusal to use established painting approaches; meanwhile, his curious drive and good looks attract the attention of women all around him.

The first act focuses on the relationship between George and Dot, his mistress. George’s obsession with finding the intrinsic harmony in his surroundings, and translating that harmony into art, make him a neglectful and irresponsible lover. Dot, who is drawn in by George’s unique talent and personality, must nevertheless abandon him to seek a husband with a more stable, sensible way of life. George’s conflicting emotions are portrayed masterfully by Adam Karsten, who displays the passionate intensity which simultaneously destroys his relationship with Dot while birthing his pointillist masterpiece, “A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte.” The other characters, each taken from the “La Grande Jatte” painting, rarely interact with George beyond serving as models for his paintings. Several of the actors, particularly the Southern tourist couple, provide comedic relief and depth to the narrative.Played by Ty Stover and Tari Fitch, provide hilarious comic relief. Wendy Brown, however, steals the show as Dot. Her pristine voice and emoting make the audience sympathize with her frustrated attraction to George. “We should have belonged together,” she wistfully sings, before running off to America with her new husband, Louis the baker. Dot carries with her an accidental token of her relationship with George, their unborn daughter Marie. Marie forms the bridge between the two acts, as the story jumps to America in the 1980s. Many of the actors return in parallel roles for the second act. Karsten gets more of the spotlight as Seurat’s distant grandson, also named George. Like the first George, he is obsessed with innovation, creating bizarre laser art with a device known as a “chromulume.” Brown’s witty performance as the elderly Marie again outshines the other characters. Attempting to create an artistic memorial to “La Grande Jatte,” young George must also struggle with the expectations of others. On one hand, the curators and critics who put pressure on George to make conventional, marketable art; on the other hand, Marie, who urges him to marry and have children while pursuing his art. In the final scene, George is eerily revisited by Dot and the characters from the first act, who inspire his work by introducing him to the central harmony and idealism of Seurat’s painting. The musical illustrates the various contending forces which can pull an artist away from his art, while underlining the sacrifices an artist must make to preserve his vision. The production succeeds in making the audience consider these themes, while providing enough comedy and interesting music to keep the audience amused. The stage is an exact replica of the background of “La Grande Jatte,” and the props, including a huge transparent reproduction of the painting, are effective without encroaching on the actors’ performances. Sunday in the Park is hardly light entertainment, but this unusual musical succeeds in spite of the difficulty of its subject matter.

Calendar

ON THE SCENE
Compiled by Rachel Newcomb

ARTS
THEATER/DANCE/MOVIES
MUSIC
Room.

MISCELLANEOUS/SPEAKERS

1993 Summer Residency in Seoul. Jennifer Stasack will talk about the Korean Traditional Performing Arts Center in Seoul. Mon, Oct. 4. 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Coffeehouse. Tues, Oct. 5. 8:30 - 11:00 a.m. 900 Room.

Tim McLaurin. Novelist to speak in the 900 Room, Tues, Oct. 5. 7:30 p.m. See article.

Dean Rusk Study Break. Study Abroad students will show pictures and talk with interested students. FREE FOOD. Tues, Oct. 5 at 10:00 p.m. Big Screen Room.

21 Year Olds Night. Tues, Oct. 5. 10:30 p.m. 900 Room.

Chemistry Colloquium. Dr. Stuart Fleming of the Museum of Applied Science Center for Archaeology (MASCA) at Univ Museum, Philadelphia. Wed, Oct. 6. 7:30 p.m. in the Multipurpose Room.

Speech by Trustee Lowell Bryan. “The Changing Nature of the Work Place. Implications for Higher Education?” Thurs, Oct. 7. 11:00 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. Morrison Room.

CROP Walk. Sun, Oct. 10, 1993. 8:00 a.m.-11:00 p.m. Village Green.

Discover Davidson Day. Admissions. Sun, Oct. 10. All Day.

DC Studio Faculty Exhibition. William H. Van Every Gallery and Edward M. Smith Gallery. Exhibit of work by Cort Savage, Russ Warren, and Herb Jackson.

Visual Arts Center Dedication. On Campus. 12:00 p.m. Fri, Oct. 8.

Pope’s Gallery. Opening Oct. 1, “Turned, Torn & Twisted” with work by Pat Dethiefs, Dan Triece, Tom Gray, Bobby Hughes, Yvonne Hegney. Call 339-0450 for more info. Charlotte.

Ursa Major Gallery. Charlotte. “With These Hands: Carolina Artists & Artisans,” recent drawings by Bob Crum. Call 567-1578 for more details.

Jesus Christ Superstar/Godspell. Movie. Wed, Oct. 6 at 8:00 p.m. Fri, Oct. 8 at 8:00 p.m. 900 Room.

New York City Ballet will perform Oct. 11, 8 p.m. at the Blumenthal Performing Arts Center, as part of the Charlotte Community Concert Assn’s Crown Jewel Series. Call 527-6680 for more info.

Side By Side: A Sondheim Celebration will be presented Sep. 30-Oct. 2, Oct. 7-9 at 9 p.m. Spirit Square, Charlotte. Cabaret setting, cash bar, desserts, coffee. Call 372-SHOW for more info.

Cole will be presented by The Abbey Players and Belmont Community Theater this week in Haid Theatre, Belmont Abbey College. Revue features the music of Cole Porter. Call 825-6787 for more details.

Manic Moodswings. Sponsored by Intimate Performance Committee. Mon, Oct. 4 at 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Rod Stewart with Patty Smyth. Blockbuster Pavilion. Tues, Oct. 5. Charlotte.

Lenny Kravitz with Blind Melon. Wed, Oct. 6. Everyone go check Lenny out. I’ll be there. Independence Arena, Charlotte.

Street City Doubting Thomas w/ Month of Sundays. Wed, Oct. 6 at the Double Door. Charlotte.

Carolina Pro Musica opens its 16th season with a concert on Oct. 8, 8:15 p.m. at St. Mary’s Chapel. Featuring music from Thomas Jefferson’s Library. Call 334-3468 for more information.

If you prefer, call 617/353-9888.