“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY”
VOLUME LXXXIV MONDAY, APRIL 5, 1993 NUMBER 21

Patterson Court Council Proposes Alcohol Policy Changes
Monitoring, Times of Parties, and Weekday Parties Emphasized by Court Committee
By Mandy Curtis

In a meeting of the CCRL on Thursday, April 1, revisions of the current alcohol policy presented by the SGA,
Patterson Court Council, Residence Life office, and the Dean of Students office were reviewed. Among the revisions, the Patterson Court
Council has provided three main amendments to the policy that would reassert the responsibility of the houses on the court.
Since January, the PCC, made up of the presidents and treasurers of the fraternities and eating houses, has been working
to provide revisions of the alcohol policy. Their final assessment of the policy as observed since the start of the
year was submitted to the CCRL two weeks ago along with additional provisions which, if approved, would be implemented next
year.

The proposal from the PCC states that the alcohol policy was “designed to encourage responsible drinking and a more positive
Patterson Court atmosphere.” However, the PCC feels that instead, the policy has created a resentment of the administration among the
students. The council wants a policy that the students have helped to create rather than the current policy which they
feel has been imposed upon the students and enforced from the outside. As stated in the proposal, the council would
like to see a policy that is based primarily on “risk management.” This would provide for the protection of the
students and for a self-regulating system.

According to PCC advisor Kurt Holmes, there are three main aspects of the PCC proposal that the council has emphasized.
They include alcohol monitoring, times of parties, and weekday parties. Alcohol monitoring is felt to be the biggest of the
three concerns. The council stated that presently the monitor system is not well-respected. The PCC recommended a monitor policy that
is “partially internal, encouraging better communication between all monitors and providing support among Patterson Court members for a risk-free social
environment.” According to Holmes, the PCC proposed that there be a single college-hired alcohol monitor, two Patterson Courthouse “risk” monitors
provided by the sponsoring houses, and one Davidson College monitor.

See Alcohol on page 3

Sexual Assault Victims "Take Back the Night"
By Leigh Rawdon

On Tuesday, March 30, Davidson students "took back the night" as the third annual ceremony, held in the 900 Room,
focused on individual experiences of sexual assault to promote awareness among the student body. The program intended to allow emotional
responses rather than mere intellectual discussion about the consequences of rape and molestation. Senior Sara Carlson organized the Davidson event
for the third year based on the national Take Back the Night programs. She notes that, “Every year we see
an increasing awareness in the student body and in the faculty that makes Take Back the Night more necessary and
effective.” She emphasized that each of the speakers commented on the importance of active programs like the Rape Awareness hall
meetings.

Approximately 150 students sat on the floor of the 900 Room to participate by supporting and learning about those in
the program as well as those victims who did not speak. Audience members were asked to wear blue string bracelets
out of respect for victims as well as to tie blue ribbons to a tree to recognize any friend or
acquaintance who has been assaulted. Statistics reveal that one of every four college women are victims of rape or attempted
rape, making sexual assault more common than left-handedness. The majority of victims are between the ages of 15 and 24,
while rapists usually fall between the ages of 16 and 25.

The program included performances by talented Davidson students in support of their peers. Sophomore B.J. Rudell, who read a poem,
explained that he recognized the importance of the event when he heard about a friend who had been assaulted. Freshman
Laura Leibfreid sang an a capella song recounting a woman’s rape and her recovery.

See March on page 2

Maya Angelou Delights Audience in Enrichment Week
By Mary McCrory

Flyers posted all over the campus last week heralded the arrival of Maya Angelou, the celebrated poet who read her
poetry at President Clinton’s inauguration. Her beaming face hung on every bulletin...Board and around every corner of Chambers and the
Union, drawing attention and crowds to the 1992-1993 Reynolds Lecture. But what Maya Angelou gave us in Love Auditorium on
Wednesday, March 31 at 8 p.m. was less lecture than song. After being introduced by President Kuykendall, Angelou took the
podium and lifted her voice to sing in several different languages. When she finished with foreign languages, she picked up
with English and continued to sing and enlighten the audience for the next hour and a half. She started by
speaking of love: filial, erotic, romantic, and self-love. Angelou first used African-American poetry to discuss these different kinds of love.
“The woman I love is fat and chocolate to the bone, and every time she shakes, some skinny woman loses
her home,” Angelou recited from a 19th-century folk song.

Maya Angelou spoke in Love Auditorium the evening of March 31. Swatches of her fascinating life came through in her
talk as she described what it was like to be a cast member in a touring version of “Porgy and
Bess.” While the company was in Morocco, Angelou was asked to sing a cappella. “When I finished, 4,500 Arabs jumped
up and started to shout it with me. I stood there, my knees locked up. I didn’t know what to
do.” Before taking on Europe and Morocco, however, she first had to live through a childhood in Stamps, Arkansas. At
12 years of age, she decided to recite some poetry for her church. After memorizing whole scenes of Shakespeare, she
selected Portia’s speech in The Merchant of Venice. There was one small problem, however — a six and a half
foot grandmother who wasn’t so sure about this Shakespeare character. According to Angelou,

See Maya on page 4

Photography Not Included in New Visual Arts Center
By Mary McCrory

When students enter the completed visual arts center next fall, they will find painting, drawing, and sculpture studios, etching and
lithography classrooms, gallery space, and a lecture hall at their disposal. They will not, however, find a photography program or
a darkroom facility awaiting them. If Davidson had a workable darkroom facility already, this would not be a large concern.
The conditions of the only darkroom on campus, which is located in the basement of the Union, are far from
ideal. According to Kristina Nevius, “It’s incredibly hot because it’s next to the boiler room, and there is only one
enlarger, so you can’t ever develop prints and film at the same time.”

Finding such conditions frustrating, and disappointed that the art department offers no photography classes, freshman Kristina Nevius decided to do
something about it. In hopes of demonstrating student interest in a photography program at Davidson, she addressed a petition to
Dean Terry calling for a darkroom facility in the Visual Arts Center. Altogether, 156 people signed it, but eventually Nevius
stopped petitioning, finding that the problem was not lack of interest but lack of money. There is enough interest that
space already has been set aside in the Visual Arts Center, but so far no one has stepped forward to
endow a photography professorship or to equip the 500 square feet of allotted darkroom space. According to Herb Jackson, Professor
of Art, such a project would cost approximately $2 million. “Right now there is only a cinderblock wall. To finish
out the space into a darkroom facility with the right equipment is expensive.”

Although a darkroom in the Visual Arts Center will have to wait, there are other possibilities for photography at Davidson.
Nevius is optimistic about improvement, since she has been told that the existing facility may be improved if she will
submit a proposal to the Activities Tax Council. Money for such a renovation would go through the Davidsonian and Quips
and Cranks budgets. Also, William Brown, Director of the Union, has expressed interest in creating darkroom space in a new
College Union.

NEWS: Senior Reinertsen to appear on "The Price is Right." Page 3.
OPINIONS: Nathan's mad about censorship. Page 6.
SPORTS: Men's Tennis takes W. Carolina, but loses to Furman. Page 11.
ARTS: Rachel explores the Daufuskie Island Gullah culture. Page 8. Residew does Spring Frolics. Page 8.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
