6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1993

'Conservative' Davidson not concerned with Equus nudity

By Lexy Devane

The Davidson College Theater and Speech Department’s production of Equus, a modern drama by Peter Shaffer, concluded yesterday with unprecedented success. Although controversy over the play’s nude scene seemed unavoidable due to the production's dates, October 26 to 31, occurring on Parents' Weekend, the vast majority of students viewed Equus as a triumph for the drama department and for the school as a whole.

Equus was aimed at mature audiences dealing with themes of ‘plastic’ normality, confused sexuality, and religious turmoil. The cast of Equus maintained the original integrity of the play including full male and female nudity. Director Alex Pinkston chose Equus because “the show carries the audience on a tremendous journey. It forces students to question all they ever assumed about life and reality and to come to grips with what is meaningful to them individually. In life, there are dilemmas, like Alan and Dysart’s, that have no concrete answers. People must learn to trust their gut instincts and decide if normality is better. Equus makes people think and this is liable to spark a more diverse society.”

Pinkston has wanted to direct Equus since playing the main character Dysart in a U.C.L.A. production. Last spring, the idea of directing this challenging drama became more tangible after taking inventory of the talent present in the department. Pinkston approached the Dean of Students regarding the controversial nature of the play and both agreed that the nudity was essential to the play. He received no negative feedback from any faculty members.

“The nudity is necessary to demonstrate the character’s complete vulnerability. It is essential in showing the absolute pain Alan (played by Adam Knapp) is suffering and aids in the audience experiencing these emotions with him. The nudity is also tentative and frightening and these emotions are expressed by (Knapp) and (Jennifer Don). It is much more than a nude scene,” explained Pinkston.

The scene actually was modified from the original script by the use of naturalistic and back lighting under the direction of Ronnie Higdon. During the actual nude scene, no frontal lighting was used. The script recommends using harsh white light to further emphasize the complete mental and physical vulnerability of Alan. However, because of various factors including the age of the actors, the production staff chose more discrete lighting.

“Equus is an important, painful production. It disturbs people as it should because it is a tragedy,” stated Jennifer Don, who plays Jill the co-star in the controversial nude scene. “Equus is about a lot of things; one thing it's not about is people taking off their clothes. My only apprehension was the audience's ability to recognize this.”

Many students agreed the nude scene was an absolutely essential part of the drama. “To perform Equus any other way is offensive,” stated Stacey Carter.

Bone marrow transplants fight leukemia.

By Stephen Keller

In the fall of my sophomore year in high school, around September of 1987, I visited my family doctor for a routine sports physical. He thought there was something strange going on with my heartbeat, and sent me to a cardiologist “just as a precaution.” To make a long story short, after a month of tests and about 20 different doctors, I was diagnosed as having chronic myelogenous leukemia. For a high school sophomore who had no symptoms of such a deadly disease, the news was hard to swallow. The doctors went on to tell me that without a relatively new procedure called a bone marrow transplant, there was a good chance that I would not survive more than four or five more years.

Immediately we started the search for a suitable bone marrow donor, which is not an easy process. Matching bone marrow types is not like matching blood types; there are many more factors which have to match perfectly to find a suitable donor. Fortunately, the chances are very high to find a good match among siblings, so my older brother and sister were each typed. Unfortunately, my brother and sister matched each other, but not me. Where could I look? Then the doctors told me about the National Bone Marrow Registry. The Bone Marrow Registry collects names and bone marrow types to find matches for those who need a transplant, as I did. One major problem is that the chances are only about 1 in 20,000 of finding a match among non-related patients, which was my case. At that time, there were fewer than 100,000 people on the registry, so my chances were not very good of finding a match. The search for my donor continued to the International Registry, which contains names and types from all over the world. After two years and my high school graduation, a suitable donor was finally found: a Canadian lumberjack in western Canada.

Life Saving

This was August of 1989, and I was ready to start my freshman year at Davidson. I put off my enrollment until the fall of 1990, and entered Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore the first week of August. As it turned out, I was to receive the first non-related bone marrow transplant attempted at Johns Hopkins. My case received special attention from every doctor in the unit. I was very fortunate that I was able to be at Hopkins because I live in Aberdeen, less than an hour from the hospital, and my family and friends could easily visit me. If I had not had the transplant in Baltimore, I would have had to travel to a special center in either Milwaukee or Seattle for the procedure.

Ten days of a chemotherapy protocol killed all of my diseased bone marrow, essentially leaving me without an immune system. I then received my new bone marrow from my donor. He donated his marrow in Canada, and a nurse from Hopkins flew with it immediately to Baltimore, rushing into my room with theMarrow in a little Igloo cooler. The bone marrow looked like a regular pint of blood, and I received it directly through my IV line. The whole process was kind of anti-climactic, but that little bag saved my life. During the next few weeks in the hospital, my new bone marrow began to grow in my bones, and my body fought off infection as best it could. I was very ill most of this time, receiving around one million different drugs (just kidding, but it seemed like that many). Even now I cannot remember some of the days I was in the hospital while I was sick. My parents kept a journal and my friends came to visit; they tell me what happened. After seven weeks in the hospital, I was strong enough to go home. This did not mean, however, that I was fully recovered. I was restricted to my house for the first couple of weeks, having to wear a mask to keep out germs any time I stepped outside. I had to go to the hospital every morning for about a month and a half for check-ups and therapy. Eventually, sometime after Christmas, my visits to the hospital tapered off, and I was able to stop taking the medication I had been on since I left the hospital. Finally, I was given permission to leave the house, and even to find a part-time job nearby. My condition improved, and I was very lucky not to have any serious complications. At that time, the chances of survival for a non-related bone marrow transplant patient were only about 40-50 percent. I still have to go back to Hopkins every August for a follow-up visit, but I have had no problems. My check-up this past August determined that I was in better shape than the doctors had expected. I was able to go to Germany last year, and will graduate from Davidson on time next May (OH BOY). I am able to do all this with tremendous thanks to the National Bone Marrow Registry. For three years now, Davidson’s student-run Project Life Committee has organized a drive to place students, staff, faculty, and community members on the registry. To date, over 1,100 people have been typed at Davidson. To be typed as a donor, all you have to do is allow the Red Cross to take two small vials of your blood and fill out a form. It takes about 10 minutes, and if you are a match, you could save someone’s life. The procedure for donating bone marrow is very simple, and is sometimes an outpatient procedure, meaning you can go home the same day. Two Davidson students have already been bone marrow donors since joining the registry within the last three years. Back then, they were in the same position most of you are in now: sitting in your room, reading this article, wondering if you really need to do this. Well, those two people have made a big difference in the lives of two other people who desperately needed a bone marrow transplant, and thanks to the registry, have received this lifesaving procedure. Even more Davidson students who joined the registry have been called back for further testing. They are waiting to hear whether or not they can be marrow donors as well.

The play was excellent in all respects. It is a troubling drama, and to lessen the raw emotion and honest anguish of the play by altering any of the controversial scenes would have been a travesty. It is refreshing to me that in a school usually labeled as being very conservative, a production such as Equus can be accepted so well. Part of Equus' controversy regarded the fact it coincided with Parents' Weekend. Will Cowan said, “Equus unquestionably was well done. I was not offended by the nudity because it was done in a mature manner; but the play could have been just as powerful if it had been left out. However, the timing of this play was inappropriate being on Parents’ Weekend. The majority of parents are most likely more conservative than their children and viewing this play together may be uncomfortable and form an awkward situation.” Pinkston emphasized the nudity was not done for the “shock value.” The scene was actually not performed nude until the Sunday night before the Tuesday opening. Prior to that, it had been pantomimed and then acted out in swimsuits for lighting purposes. Pinkston feels this added to the tender uncertainty the characters maintained throughout the play’s running. The cast of Equus was truly an ensemble who worked together. “Equus forced the cast to expose themselves emotionally and literally and dig down into themselves and find a darker place. The cast went through the ultimate vulnerability. [Knapp and Don] truly gave themselves to the scene.”

Crime Report

On October 23 at 4:27 a.m. an officer arrested a man who was vandalizing the SAE house. The man reportedly pulled a piece of a gutter off the building. The offender, a former Davidson student, was seen by an officer who approached and attempted to identify him. The offender began running. After a chase, the officer wrestled him to the ground while the offender began to lie about his identity. The offender declared he was willing to pay for the gutter valued at $25.

On October 23 at 9:45 a.m. an officer reported that an unknown person made a forcible entry into one of the north side double doors at Cunningham. There were no signs of an intruder, and the building was undisturbed. The bottom lock of the door was broken and small fragments of wood were shattered from the door. The cost of the damage was valued at $200.

On October 23 at 7:00 p.m. an unknown person entered a vehicle in a satellite parking lot by breaking the driver’s side vent window and removed a vehicle repair kit. The repair kit consisted of assorted items valued at $50. No suspects were found.

- Compiled by Jeff Fuller