**The Davidsonian**

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXV MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1993 NUMBER 5

Philip Morris Co. gives $100,000 for diversity programs

Courtesy of College Relations

WASHINGTON, D.C.-- Representatives of Philip Morris Companies, Inc. honored Davidson with a grant of $100,000 for campus diversity on September
22. The company-sponsored program, “Tolerance on Campus: Establishing Common Ground,” presented honors to 11 colleges and universities chosen to participate.
The $100,000 grant for each school is to be used at the colleges and universities in implementing programs to promote
a climate of understanding and respect for diversity on campuses nationwide.

In attendance at the luncheon for the presentation of honors on Capitol Hill in Washington were officers of the 11
colleges, members of Congress, and representatives of a number of civil rights organizations. Davidson was selected with 10 other schools
by a panel of national educators, civil rights leaders, and philanthropists. The application pool included over 60 colleges and universities.
Selection was based on the innovative and thoughtful approaches to the problems of campus diversity. Davidson’s efforts to promote diversity
through the educational environment was the basis for selection.

Conscious of the value of a community with diverse racial and cultural heritages, the school will advance an institutional goal
of creating a campus environment receptive to an increasingly diverse student population. Specifically, Davidson promotes diversity and inclusiveness through the
Summer Bridge Program for minority students to become acquainted with the Davidson campus; and a new Minority Counselor to address
the concerns of minority students. A minority cultural series to highlight the accomplishments of minority artists and integrate their work
into the cultural life of the college; Diversity Seminars to orient the campus with multicultural activities; and Leadership Interns to
provide minority students with an opportunity to work in an academic environment are other Davidson programs that encourage diversity.

Duke University was the only other recipient of the grant from Philip Morris in North Carolina. The grant will be
distributed over three years as Davidson works to incorporate more diversity-oriented programs. President Kuykendall stated, “This grant signals a truly
unique opportunity for Davidson as we continue to work for mutual appreciation and understanding within a diverse community. As we
work to establish our own ‘common ground,’ it is reaffirming to know that we have such a generous show of
support from Philip Morris."

Forum looks at Patterson Court future

By Jenny Schroeter

On Monday, September 27, the Campus Forum Committee sponsored a forum discussing the future of Patterson Court. The forum consisted
of four senior panelists from various groups. About fifty students turned out for the meeting. These panelists included independent Brett
Marston, BSC member Phiderika Foust, Phi Delt president Myles Louria, and Patterson Court and Conner House president Julie Petty. The
moderator of the event was Jason Bertsch, chairman of the Campus Forum Committee.

Each of the panelists began with an opening statement defining what Patterson Court means to them. Following the opening statements,
panelists discussed specific aspects of Patterson Court. The idea of expanding Patterson Court to include other activities besides those usually
associated with the court was an important topic. More involvement of independents in court activities was another issue that was
discussed.

After the discussion among the panelists, the forum was opened to questions and comments from the audience. The event provided
a platform for students to voice their opinions and concerns about the future direction of Patterson Court.

Hugo's fourth birthday

Students rest between duties immediately following 1989's Hurricane Hugo. Last week marked the four-year anniversary of the natural disaster which
forced school to shut down while the community worked to clean up the mess left in its wake. See page
4.

Photo by Bill Cid College Relations

Students examine Baker's limited hours

By Wendy Lee

Baker Sports Complex is open...83 hours a week, however, some students do not think that is enough. A meeting to
discuss whether Baker Sports Complex is satisfying students’ needs was held Thursday, September 30 in the Conference Room at Baker.
The SGA was represented by B.J. Rudell, Sarah Beth Hamlin, Gautam Srinivasan, and Christy Block. Dean of Students Will Terry
and Baker administrators Terry Holland, Sterling Martin, and Ron Morrow completed the group.

DC Fougeman or Terminator X? You decide
Courtesy of Officer Moore
Officer Moore strikes a scary pose as Terminator X.
By Susan Warren

Police Officer Stanley Thomas Moore, known around campus for his towering presence at parties (he’s 6’8" 1/2 and 250 pounds),
is more than just a Davidson Police Officer. When not enforcing the law at Davidson, Officer Moore is a professional
wrestler in Mooresville. Known as “Terminator X” in the independent wrestling circuit, Moore wrestles all over the East Coast. He
has been professionally wrestling for the past two years and wrestles whenever he can fit it into his schedule.

To become a professional wrestler, Moore says one must really have a great interest. Moore went through a four-month school
for three hours a day, four days a week at the Ivan Koloff School of Wrestling in Indian Trail, North
Carolina. Moore wrestles independently, with his next big match in Winston Salem, North Carolina on October 23. This match is
especially exciting because it will be televised in the Winston Salem area. In addition to wrestling, Moore coordinates and promotes
the tournament held in Mooresville. This means hiring wrestlers and setting up ring time. Moore would love to go "big
time," but for now he's happy to be a policeman by day and Terminator X by night.

Current Baker hours are 9 a.m.-10 p.m., Monday through Friday and 1-10 p.m., Saturday and Sunday. The pool is open
11:30-6 p.m., Monday through Friday, 7-9 p.m., Monday through Thursday, and 2-5 p.m., Saturday and Sunday. The weight room is
open 11:30 a.m.-9 p.m., Monday through Friday and 2-5 p.m., Saturday and Sunday. Rudell noted that Baker is very valuable,
but that it may not be getting maximum usage because...

See Baker on page 4

THIS WEEK

ROTC Blood drive falls short of goals
By Court McBryde

The ROTC Blood Drive was held Wednesday, September 29, in the Morrison Room of the Union. This year’s goal was
125 units of blood, but only 107 units were donated. ROTC Junior Matt McKinney chaired the Blood Drive. ROTC service
society called the Sabre and Blade. Sabre and Blade took over the Blood Drive five years ago as a service
project. Previously, ROTC did sponsor Blood Drives, but not on a regular basis. ROTC sponsors two blood drives a year:
fall and spring. This fall’s drive welcomed Davidson students, faculty, and community. “Even retired faculty gave blood,” said McKinney.

In preparation for the drive, flyers and posters were hung around campus and at the post office. McKinney contacted five
area churches to make an announcement about the drive. However, despite the preparations made, the turnout was less than expected.
McKinney feels this particular blood drive was rushed due to short notice from the Red Cross which might have precipitated
the “O.K. turnout.” Major Hawkins explained that Red Cross’s calendar filled up fast and this was the only time when
their staff could come. He added, “It was almost too short of notice.”

See Blood on page 4

NEWS: DC alumnus studies testosterone levels in fraternity men. Page 3.
OPINIONS: Faller discusses creationist and evolutionary theories. Page 9.
SPORTS: Goalie Deegan injured at Yale. Page 14.
ARTS: The great meat debate. To eat or not to eat. Page 11. "The Good Son" isn't. Page 12.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
