2 __ THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1993

Storyteller
By Court McBryde

Sociology professor Nancy Fairley gave the Davidson College community a taste of her storytelling talent Sunday afternoon at the BSC. Co-sponsored by the Anthropology/Sociology Department and the BSC, the storytelling series is new to the college.

Fairley began telling stories as a parent in New York. When one of her friends, a poet, heard Fairley’s stories, she invited her to present them to a group of poets in Brooklyn. Since then, Fairley has performed her stories at outside festivals, public schools, brunches at restaurants, birthdays, family gatherings, and “about any other setting you can imagine,” Fairley commented. Over the last two years, storytelling has become a profession for Fairley.

Spins her tale at BSC

She explains that storytelling is a human community of art forms which allows people to bond. “It opens up a world of fantasy and enables all to enter other people’s lives, other societies, and other cultures,” Fairley remarked. She added that storytelling unleashes the imagination’s creativity for both the performer and spectator. Some of the stories Fairley presents are self-composed while others have been passed down through many generations. Fairley’s interest in stories lies in anthropology's folklore.

Fairley now performs under the stage name "Nani," her grandmother’s name which she did not previously use because of her grandmother’s wishes. After her grandmother’s death, she picked up Nani as her storyteller performing name. Born in Maxton, N.C., Fairley is currently investigating an attempted Ku Klux Klan march stopped by the Lumbee Indians when she was only eight years old. Fairley is collecting personal studies to weave into this historical event in order to formulate another story.

A first-year professor at Davidson and new to the area, Fairley was anxious to get herself back into public storytelling and was thrilled to perform at the BSC, which was looking for an act to encourage students to come to the house. Fairley attended Clark College in Atlanta and went to graduate school in anthropology at State University of New York at Stony Brook. She continued graduate work in Ghana, Africa.

The BSC will also be hosting storytellers Sonny Wood, “Sauni,” and E. J. Stewart on Sunday as well.

Committee uses student input for apartments

Beds continued from page 1

cuts down on the total number of toilets and sinks. Having 5 people in an apartment does create other problems. Since the Martin Court apartments only have 4 bedrooms, the lottery for apartments will have to be revised. “We know we need to work on that part of the system,” says Facilities and Housing Operations Coordinator Debby Sink. “It could get really complicated and lottery is not the time to get complicated.” No revisions have been made yet, but students will be notified of the changes in the Lottery Handbook which is distributed in the Spring. This leaves juniors who are abroad next semester in a mess as far as housing is concerned.

Aside from the Lottery quandary, the committee hopes these apartments will add a few features that students may have missed in the Martin Court apartments. To determine what was missing, they distributed a questionnaire to the occupants of Martin Court. Although most residents were very satisfied with their living arrangements, several did cite problems with parking and thin walls. As a result, it is very likely that more parking will be added.Inclusion of students on the housing committee is a big step for student voice in campus decision-making. No students helped make these kinds of decisions in 1988, when the first apartments were constructed. Student response is positive. “The initial reaction I get is, ‘Does this mean we're going to get a senior apartment?’ and I nod, and they are ecstatic,” says Heitzenroder.

> WE'RE NOT YOUR TYPICAL BUTTON-DOWN, PIN-STRIPE BANK.

NationsBank: PROGRAMS Commercial, Services

In these fickle financial times, banks that think in the past often get left there. Today, the financial organizations that thrive are those with the foresight to anticipate change and the ability to act rapidly. As the fourth-largest and one of the most financially aggressive banks in the country, NationsBank is just such a financial organization. And you can play a highly visible leading role. With our proven history of keeping our fingers on the industry’s pulse, you'll be working in a very dynamic environment with other hands-on, street-smart professionals. Although some may look like bankers, they definitely don't think like bankers, which is the way it should be. If you're about to graduate, here’s how to learn more about us:

DROP DATE: Wednesday, October 13, 1993
INTERVIEWS: Wednesday, October 27, 1993

NationsBank ©NationsBank Corporation 1993

Photo by Lisa Watson

SCIENCE OR FRAUD?

The Chemistry department featured Dr. Stuart Fleming in Chambers Gallery Wednesday. Fleming spoke on forgery in art, focusing on ceramics, coinage, and painting. Several "famous" forgeries were mentioned, including the Shroud of Turin, thought to be the burial covering of Christ, but actually carbon-dated to the 14th century. He added, "counterfeiting is one of the most sophisticated sciences." He spoke with Dr. Ralph Gable of the Chemistry department after the lecture. - Meg Wolff.

Call Us! 896-8007
Shops on the Green - Cornelius
HOURS: 4pm-12 midnight

NEW ADDITIONS: Twisty Bread, Salad, Cheddar Cheese

Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Cash value 1/20¢. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. ©1993 Domino's Pizza Inc.

LATE NITE SPECIAL

MEAL DEAL $6.99
LARGE CHEESE PIZZA

MEAL DEAL $8.99
MEDIUM 1-TOPPING PIZZA
* All the Coke you can drink only 35¢
* 2 QT. PKG. OF KOOL-AID

No coupon necessary
Order 10 - Close
Sunday-Thursday only
Expires 10-24-93

MONDAY ONLY

2 FOR 1 MONDAY SPECIAL
LARGE PIZZA FOR THE PRICE OF A MEDIUM
Expires 10-24-93

2 MEDIUM PIZZAS FOR THE PRICE OF A LARGE
Expires 10-24-93

NEW DEEP DISH

TWISTY BREAD $5.99

SOMETHIN’ FOR NOTHIN’
FREE TWISTY BREAD WITH ANY LARGE PIZZA
Expires 10-24-93

THURSDAY ONLY

2 FOR 1 LARGE PIZZAS $10.99
Expires 10-24-93

LARGE 2-TOPPING PIZZA PLUS 2 LITER COKE $14.99
Additional toppings $1.00
Expires 10-24-93

DELIVERY AREA LIMITED TO ENSURE SAFE DRIVING. LIMITED TIME ONLY. ©1993 DOMINO'S PIZZA INC. PARTICIPATING STORES ONLY.