DAVIDPHONIANT - The South's Sexiest Editors!
VOLUME LXIX MONDAY, APRIL 26, 1993 NUMBER 69

Dean of Students Puts Frat on Double Secret Probation
SPEs Shoot and Mortally Wound Pledge During Annual Shootout

By Harvey Dimple

On Thursday, April 26, a brother of the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity was shot and killed during the Second Annual
“SPE Shoot.” In the incident, freshman Alfredo Urbino, an international student from Venezuela, was blown to bits. The Dean of
Students has suspended all social activities at SPE until further notice and placed the fraternity on double secret probation. Dean
of Students Will Terry said that the Dean’s Office has also set up a Review Committee to determine “the culpability
of the fraternity as an organization in this event.”

According to a police report, at approximately 5:30 pm on Thursday, all SPE brothers gathered at their Patterson Court house
for the “Shoot Out.” A SPE brother, who asked to remain anonymous, explained the activity: “Once a year, we SPEs
think it’s neat and cool to get together and shoot paint pellets at one another. It’s kind of like that
carnival game... Each brother takes a turn running back and forth while five others shoot at him at close range.
It’s fun.”

This year, the fun backfired. The police report continues: Urbino was the first to volunteer as a target. He donned
his protective helmet and pads and went to the back of the house, where he waited to be pelted. Apparently,
some SPE brothers who are ROTC cadets (there seem to be quite a lot) had run straight from maneuvers to
the house, so as not to be late for the fun. The first-round marksmen mistakenly grabbed the loaded M-16s which
the cadets had set next to the harmless paint guns. They aimed point-blank at the unsuspecting Urbino and shot.

An ambulance was summoned, but Urbino was pronounced dead on the scene of multiple, close-range gunshot wounds. As one SPE
present at the incident aptly summed up, “Oops.”

Services for Urbino were held at DCPC on Sunday. He is survived by his father, mother, and two sisters. The
tragedy occurred just two weeks after Urbino, affectionately known as “Roadkill” by friends, was dropped on his head in the
laundry parking lot during an attempted road trip.

Patterson Court Advisor Kurt Holmes said that as of yet the Dean of Students Office is dealing with the problem,
pending evidence that could lead to CCRL or Honor Council involvement. The students involved in the shooting have been issued
a summons by the Dean of Students Office which reads, in part, “... students See Frat Death on page 3.”

By Someone

In a somewhat bizarre, but progressive move, Davidson College admitted its first alien students this past week. The four students,
Garkmel Schmeilinheimer, Matt Bumstead, Laura Dennis, and Sarah Gayle, all hail from P486III, a small, hydrogen-based planet in the Andromeda
Galaxy.

Bumstead said the following of his acceptance, “I’m pretty excited because I hear the school paper might just be stupid
enough to let me write a very long, very boring column extolling the virtues of Country music. We’ve grown light
years ahead of this dribble that these no talents call music, but hey, you haven’t.”

As for the other three aliens, they all share a primary goal. “We want to stop the offensive stereotyping of
Alien-Americans and help the college learn to tolerate peoples of different cultures,” says Schmeilinheimer. “We're tired of being called ugly
just because we don’t look like humans.”

When asked about how these chosen few were accepted, Admissions head...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning
and punctuation:

---

Nancy Cable Wells commented, “Basically we see this as an excellent opportunity. We were able to do the same thing
with women and African-Americans decades ago. Basically, we just want to make sure that the white boys know who they're
going to have to deal with in the real world. If they don’t know how these people act, how are
they going to know how to control them? Hey, isn’t that what a liberal arts education is all about, anyway?”

Davidson Accepts First Alien Students
Continued Efforts to Increase Diversity on Campus Cause It

Pictured above are (l-r) Garkmell Schmelenheimer, Laura Dennis, Sarah Gayle, and Matt Bumstead, who will be arriving at Davidson a
few days before orientation for potty training.
Photo by Ansel Adams

The students will be living in Richardson, but they are all going to room together. As for that move, head
of Residence Life, Dick Terry pointed out that “we don’t know anything about these people. For all we know, they
may just crap on the floor.”

For those interested, the students will be arriving on campus three days prior to the beginning of next year's classes.
If you want, you can line up along the path to Rich and stare and gawk at them until your
faces fall off. And, yes fellows, the breasts on the girl on the left are evidently real.

Editor Surprised With Academy Awards
By Bells Wack

Editor-in-chief, Harrison Roberts, formerly of the Davidsonian, was surprised to win both best supporting actor, best director, and best animal
trainer, for his movie Back Door Barney. The film, which stars Roberts as himself and a large German Shepherd as
Barney, was the first independent winner of the best picture award ever!

When asked what he thought of his surprise recognition, Roberts slammed a PBR and puked. Then he added, "What?" But
despite his complete lack of knowledge of what was going on, telegrams have been flooding into the country asking, "Who
the hell is Harrison Roberts?" The Academy insists that they know and have been quoted saying, "We're right! We're right!
He won the damn things!"

At a recognition party this morning, Roberts announced that he will be producing a new film based on his donkey,
Odie. The movie is currently titled, Donkey Odie.

SAE Back on Campus; Tree to be New House

After months of torture living in their rat-infested Thompson Street home, the SAEs are back on campus. Unfortunately, they have
no house. Said Anthony Foxx, head of the Committee to Decide Whether SAE is a Bunch of Sinners, "Well, they've
been doing a lot. I mean the seven books they donated are really making the library a lot better, and
I use their stupid calendar every day."

So the SAEs will be returning to campus next fall. They won't, however, be allowed to rush, walk through the
front doors of Chambers, or eat anywhere besides in the bathrooms of the Commons. Said President Norwood, "Hey, it's a
step!" (Actually, he may not be president, but nobody knows who is anyway.)

THIS WEEK
NEWS!: Nothing, absolutely nothing. Page 1, 2, 3.
OPINIONS!: Ghost writers examine the joys of masturbation. Page 5.
SPORTS!: Kuykendall!
ARTS!: The worst joke in this thing. Page 6.
"Bye Bacon & Eggs" from another foregone conclusion. Page 6.

You think we would let anyone else see this crap? You must be kidding, you idiot. How'd you get in
this school?

---
