6 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1993

The Week in Washington

Angry voters reject incumbents

States reject Democratic platform and send a message to the president.

By Brett Marston

On November 3rd, several incumbent Democratic governors and mayors lost their bids for re-election to their rivals in the Republican
party. Republicans were quick to claim this as a sign that Americans are dissatisfied with Clinton’s policies. Most analysts assert,
however, that the results from the recent elections reflect more a distrust for incumbents in general than a rejection of
either party.

In one of the most spectacular races, New York City voters chose Republican Rudolph Giuliani over the Democrat David Dinkins,
who is now the first incumbent mayor to lose a bid for re-election in the Big Apple since 1933. In
New Jersey, amid charges of shady vote-buying deals, Christine Todd Whitman, a Republican, defeated incumbent Democratic governor Jim Florio, whose
$2.8 billion tax increase angered many voters. With massive support from the religious right, Republican George Allen trounced the Democrat
Mary Sue Terry, who was not an incumbent, but whom Allen portrayed as the heir of the previous Democratic governors.

In New York and New Jersey, where Clinton strongly supported the Democratic incumbents, the margin of victory for the Republican
candidates was as thin as a hair. Whitman won by a mere 1 percent of the votes, Giuliani by less
than 2 percent.

Seen in the context of other issues which are gaining in popularity, however, such as term limits for elected officials,
these results show an increasing impatience among American voters, and an unwillingness to give incumbents “the benefit of the doubt—or
second terms,” writes Elizabeth Kolbert in the New York Times. “Some analysts say that incumbents will have a hard time
for as long as there are hard times,” she continues. “With government resources scarce, candidates are bound to make promises
that, once in office, they cannot keep.”

Whitman, using the same tactics that helped George Bush in 1988 (“read my lips...”), has promised to cut New Jersey
state taxes by 30 percent over the next three years. Fiscal difficulties, including an enormous deficit, will probably prevent such
a move.

In a climate in which all responsible political action is likely to be unpopular, populist politicians gain influence by blaming
the “established parties” for being incapable of solving pressing problems. Indeed, politicians like Whitman give more support to these parties
and increase voters’ cynicism by making such ridiculous campaign promises.

“The real danger [for the Democrats],” writes Steve Daley in the Chicago Tribune, “is that the depths of voter anger
and impatience with incumbent politicians has yet to be plumbed, and that the 1994 midterm elections are bearing down on
them with the ferocity of Ross Perot at an anti-NAFTA rally.”

The recent election results have many Democratic members of Congress worried about their prospects for re-election next year. The discontent
which helped give Perot 19 percent of the votes in the presidential election in 1992 and which helped Clinton into
the White House may defeat the Democrats themselves.

Sources: The New York Times and the Chicago Tribune.

Congress set to vote on controversial NAFTA

House vote will be decided by lobbyists, Clinton included

By Christopher Hood

“The Number One sign you know you’re dealing with American politics: Vice President debates major policy with old, rich, pissed
off guy on nightly talk show.” No, it wasn’t another Letterman Top 10 list. Vice President Al Gore debated (argued?)
the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) with Ross Perot, probably the most widely recognized agreement opponent, Tuesday evening on
“Larry King Live.” The event symbolized what many consider to be wrong with the current state of American politics: their
media-driven nature, special interest mania, and the lofty status attributed to someone who has never been elected to political office,
just to name three.

Congress to vote this week

The Gore-Perot accuse-a-thon’s true effects won’t be felt until Wednesday, when the House is scheduled to vote on NAFTA. Should
it pass, the Senate is likely to accept the agreement by Friday. As of this past weekend, the Administration needed
to persuade roughly 40 representatives to switch from their undecided or opposing viewpoints in order to have the 218 votes
necessary for a majority. Many of these target representatives returned home this weekend, as Congress recessed for the Veterans’ Day
weekend. Their votes were likely decided by opinions and concerns raised by their constituents and interest groups.

More than NAFTA at stake

Though the Administration is raising the stakes on NAFTA, it recognizes the wide-reaching impact of the debate. The agreement is
not about Al Gore versus Ross Perot, or even the United States against Mexico. For an Administration struggling to prove
its foreign policy competence in an environment in which domestic and foreign policies are becoming more closely linked, NAFTA represents
the beginning of what should be top priorities: the opening of trade markets and the spread of democracy and market
economies.

President Clinton meets with Far East leaders at the Pacific Rim summit in Seattle this weekend, a seven-year-long trade negotiation
marathon which seeks to lower trade barriers among the over 100 participants.

Momentum essential

Despite strong organized protests by labor and environmental groups, the Administration contends that NAFTA is a job producer which will
open markets through the reduction of tariffs. Mexican tariffs average two and a half times their U.S. counterparts. Should the
Congress fail to pass NAFTA, Japan may lead a Far East rush into...Mexico, cutting sharply into the U.S. trade surplus
with Mexico. This surplus has grown sharply since Mexico began to liberalize trade practices in the middle 1980s. Leverage at
the Pacific Rim Summit is important, but more crucial is momentum for the Uruguay Round of GATT talks. The biggest
obstacle to completion is a quarrel between the United States and the European Community over farm subsidies. With GATT passage,
the United States will gain access to many more markets than with NAFTA; as is the case with Mexico, American
tariffs tend to be lower than those of other nations. From a global perspective, numerous Asian, Eastern European, Latin American,
and African third-world countries attempting democratic and market economy reforms desperately need open markets and less government intervention for these
reforms to succeed. The Clinton Administration surely took a great risk by pitting Gore against Perot, whose popularity has dropped
as his role in the anti-NAFTA crusade has grown. Given the ramifications of the upcoming Congressional NAFTA votes on wider-ranging
global concerns for an administration desperately in need of a foreign policy momentum boost, the Administration deemed the risk a
necessary one.

Sources: Economist, New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Washington Post National Weekly Edition

The Dean Rusk Program

Nigeria: Goodbye, Ibrahim
Tensions high and government unlawful
By Zik Joseph

One cannot speak of notorious leaders in Africa without mentioning the name Ibrahim Babangida. Well known by many Nigerians as
“IBB,” many have come to refer to him as the “Maradona of Africa.” It is a pity that the re-awakening
and realization by many Nigerians that he was a bad leader has come at such a time when it is
too late to “save the goal.” Because of this, the West African nation has had to pay such a dear
price for trusting a leader like him.

Despite the fact that Nigeria was one of the first African countries to acquire autonomy from colonial masters in October
1960, Nigeria has undergone a series of political anarchy, leaving much of the political scene in the hands of the
military. It is amidst this shady background that Babangida seized the presidency via the military coup of August 27, 1985.
Like many opportunists, he captured widespread support all over the country by promising the people that he would not only
rehabilitate the economy, but he also would eventually hand over power to the civilians in the year 1990. Hardly at
the time did anyone know that this was the beginning of a reign filled with all sorts of political dirty
games with IBB as the key player. His eight years in office were marked by high levels of corruption in
the government. The economy dwindled as state funds were mainly channeled to ambitious defense programs. He did not hesitate to
call off negotiations with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which further smeared his image abroad. Political activity was banned, several
people were detained without trial. All these actions did not go without any rebellion. Two military coups to oust him
out of power were futile and proved that diplomacy was the only way out. In July 1987, the ruling body
at the time, the Armed Forces Ruling Council (AFRC) postponed the presidential elections to 1992, contrary to what had earlier
been envisaged. Babangida, using “delaying tactics,” further pushed ahead the date for elections and it was not until the 12th
of June this year, under immense pressure, that Nigerians were allowed to go to the polls, an election which was
declared by IBB as null and void due to fraud. Fearing condemnation from the West, as was the case with
Jonas Savimbi of Angola, IBB quit the state house on the 27th of August leaving behind Chief Ernest Shonekan as
the leader of the 32-member interim government that is expected to rule Nigeria until 31st March 1994 when fresh elections
are to take place. Last Wednesday, a Nigerian court declared the new interim government illegitimate, leaving the political future of
the country in jeopardy. This is because Chief Shonekan is seen by many as a ‘puppet’ of Babangida after all
the other members of the interim government are “IBB’s men.” One Justice Minister, Akpamgbo, in a bid to silence Chief
M.K.O. Abiola, winner of last June’s elections, indicated that any mention of the past canceled elections would lead to the
latter being kept out of the coming elections.

Giving Norplant to teens
Chicago Tribune

"As for AIDS, it would be tragic indeed if babies across America were born because girls were denied Norplant with
the hope that fear of pregnancy might encourage greater use of condoms. Girls whose self-esteem often contributes to casual sexual
contact should not be put at risk of motherhood with the hope that their insistence on condoms will carry the
day. Too many of them are not strong, and they will not insist. We need to expand AIDS education and
the practice of ‘safe sex’ and condom use. But that should be separate from a serious attempt to avert teenage
pregnancy. Each is a terrible problem with a different solution."

-from November 8, Observer, Catherine O'Neill, co-founder of the Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children.

Annexing Canada
Chicago Tribune

"...we would get new territory, territory which is exciting, sparsely populated and best of all, North. As the Canadian historian
Barry Gough put it, Canada has 'a Northern way of life. It has a Northern destiny.'

"How wonderful! Nothing has more ailed American life these 20 years or so than the infernal growth of Southern influence
in politics, culture, and the economy. So pervasive has it grown that millions believe they have to be warm all
the time. What this country needs is several million more square miles of beautiful, frozen North."

-from November 8, Observer, Jon Margolis, columnist for The Observer
