THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1993

Survey: Greeks Drink More

(CPS) — Residents of campus fraternity houses drink nearly three times as much booze as other college men, while residents of on-campus sorority houses consume twice as much alcohol as other women, a recent study said.

Results of the study, conducted by the Core Institute for Alcohol and Other Drug Studies at Southern Illinois University at Carbondale, were reported in the October issue of Campus Crime.

“This is significant new information that campus officials and prevention specialists need to have,” Cheryl Presley, director of the institute, told the newsletter.

Overall, fraternity men average 20 drinks a week compared with eight for other college men, while sorority women average six drinks a week, compared with three for non-sorority women. The study was based on the responses of 58,000 students at 78 institutions of higher education from 1989 to 1991.

The study also noted that fraternity members reported being involved in more episodes of binge drinking (defined as having more than five drinks at one sitting), fights or other violent behavior at fraternity parties, hangovers, poor test scores, and missed classes.

Stanford OKs Harassment Policy

STANFORD, Calif. (CPS) — After three years of debate and rewriting, Stanford University officials enacted a new policy in early October that deals with sexual harassment on campus.

Unlike policies at some other institutions, Stanford’s does not prohibit consensual relationships between students and professors, but does warn that there are risks involved when the relationship is between individuals in “inherently unequal positions.”

The policy “comes down squarely on the side of confidentiality,” said University President Gerhard Casper, regarding the conflict between the desire “to establish records of transgressions that can be reviewed later” and the assurance of confidentiality that would encourage people to come forward.

Harassment is defined as unwanted sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other visual, verbal or physical conduct.

‘Gettysburg’ to Aid College

BRUNSWICK, Maine (CPS) — A Civil War movie starring Jeff Daniels will help fund the restoration of the Bowdoin College home where a college graduate and president who fought for the Union in the Civil War lived.

Gettysburg was screened in Portland, Maine in early October, and money from the premiere will go to the restoration of Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain house.

Chamberlain, who graduated from Bowdoin College in 1852, took part in 24 engagements during the Civil War and won the Congressional Medal of Honor for his part in the battle of Gettysburg.

COMMUNITY DINNER
6:00 P.M., WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, AT THE ADA JENKINS CENTER
Everyone from town and campus is invited to attend.

IF YOU WANT TO GET FROM STUDENT PARKING TO FACULTY PARKING START HERE

We will be visiting Davidson College November 18-19

Want to teach? Consider independent (private) schools! Over 450 independent schools have job openings every year and many seek the energy and diversity of recent graduates to fill their positions. IES is the only non-profit teacher placement organization, and there is no charge to students! For more information contact your career office or call (800) 257-5102

INDEPENDENT EDUCATIONAL SERVICES
353 NASSAU ST. - PRINCETON, NJ 08540
(800) 257-5102
Email at TEACHIES@AOL.COM

Crawl Charlotte art galleries.
By Jenny Schroeter

Those students interested in art or wanting to gain a greater appreciation for art were able to participate in the gallery crawl held last Friday. The Student Union sponsored the event, which marked the third one of the school year. Students met at the Student Union at 5:15 p.m. for a departure to Spirits Square in Charlotte. The actual gallery crawl was from 6-8 that night. Students were able to see a variety of different artistic works featuring many artists. The new works included “The Weight of the World,” which is a sculpture by Jeffrey Goll; “Rumors,” a visual and audio exhibit; and a collection of Bunraku puppets. Other galleries that participated in the gallery crawl included The Pope’s Galleries, The Light Factory, and The Wentworth Gallery.

The Pope’s Gallery contained works from many local North Carolina artists. There were oil painting landscapes by Kate Worm and mixed media still life paintings by Mary Dobbin.

The Light Factory concentrated on art through photography. All of the art in the building was in the form of photographs. Nancy Stanfield, an employee at the gallery, expressed her delight in having the gallery crawls each month. She said that “people in the surrounding areas are able to get a greater appreciation of the art in this area. They are also able to get the chance to possibly see the works of artists that they are not familiar with.”familiar with.” For those students who were thinking of purchasing some artwork, The Wentworth Gallery at Southpark Mall was open to them. This gallery contained works from not only local artists, but also from some international artists. The gallery crawl was enjoyed by those who were able to attend. For those who did not have the opportunity to go, there will be another gallery crawl on the first Friday of next month.

Skeleton parts discovered
Skull continued from page 1

a proper burial ground without markers. It is likely that the bones were tossed aside when a new grave was dug. Haslam does not believe there was any “wrongdoing;” someone must have unknowingly dug them up. The campus police and the Davidson town police arrived on the scene after Haslam and Vitaglione reported their findings. The question came up as to who had jurisdiction over the case. The town police took over the investigation. The bones were sent to a lab where they will be tested to find background information on the age and origin of the skull and thigh bone as well as the possible cause of death. Results will be back in a few weeks.

This, however, is not the first time a human skull has been found on campus. Years back, a few PiKA guys found a skull somewhere in Chambers. The skull was given to the house and is a part of the PiKA archives in the glass case near the foosball table.

SGA President Alden Smith and Honor Council chairman Ward Davis gave an address regarding the Honor Code at the faculty meeting on Tuesday, November 2. Some faculty members expressed concern about students' respect for the code. The Honor Council educates students about the code in a variety of ways, Davis told faculty. The Honor Council visits freshman halls and gives presentations. Davis noted that faculty can help make students more aware of the code by stressing it in their classes, such as requiring students to write out the entire Honor pledge on all assignments.

-Wendy Lee

Buy a large pizza at regular price, get a small pizza with one item for $2.00!!!
PIZZA SPECIAL!
892-4112 • 892-4114
FREE DELIVERY after 6 pm of entire menu: PIZZA, SUBS, SALADS
Fri-Sat 10:30am-11pm
Sunday 2-8pm
Mon-Thur 10:30am-10pm
Located in Sadler Square I-77 Exit 30, Near Davidson College

Eventually, Panthers will impact Wildcats
By Court McBryde

After a seven-year battle, the Carolinas won on October 26 when the Richardsons announced Charlotte was unanimously voted to receive an NFL franchise. This NFL team will precipitate dramatic effects on the Carolinas, but Davidson will also feel an impact from their presence. Member of the Panthers ownership group and Charlotte native, John Harris, President of the Harris Group, a commercial real estate services firm, provided his insight on the impact the Panthers will have on Davidson.

Harris felt that on the surface there should be no short-term effects on Davidson due to the Panthers' presence. However, “on the other side of the coin the Panthers have the potential to affect Davidson in the long-term view,” Harris explained. Most importantly, “the Panthers will serve as an economic developmental catalyst.” The Panthers will attract people to the area; people like to live and visit an area of popularity: an NBA basketball team and now an NFL football team. In turn, “this area of Davidson and Lake Norman will grow and develop a little more,” Harris remarked. Davidson will encounter some new neighbors. Harris explained there will probably be 40-50 NFL Panther football players who will live in the Davidson area during their off-season, “Lake Norman is an attractive place to live.”

Harris continued in commenting that fans will come to the Charlotte area to spend a weekend which will generate as much as $30 million of commerce to the city that wasn’t there before. There will be 12-14 games linked with an estimated $42 million in sales: restaurants, hotel rooms, car rentals, and other huge economic benefits to the area. Davidson will house fans and they will use these same facilities offered in Davidson, Harris remarked.

From an athletic standpoint, Harris explained that the Panthers’ games will be on Sunday and therefore the attendance at Davidson’s football games should not change. Harris believes that the NFL team will draw the county closer together. Similar to their reaction to the NBA's Hornets, fans from the Carolinas will join to support another dream team that has become a reality.

Wearn lecture
McGeorge Bundy
8:00 p.m., Monday, November 8
Chambers Multipurpose Room