2

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 1993

Fraternity Receives Probation for Post-Soccer Celebration

By Sally Stone
The weekend of December 4-6 will go down in Davidson soccer, athletic, and school history. The men’s soccer team’s performance
produced a jubilant student body and alumni population. These fans continued their revelry Saturday night, December 5 at the Kappa
Alpha Order; but it produced less than positive results. The disorder of that party resulted in a social probation sentence
for KA.

According to Dean Terry and chief of campus police, Rick Moore, when the two a.m. hour arrived and all alcohol
was to be removed from the premises, the attending police officers and alcohol monitors received no cooperation from the fraternity
members to follow suit. Consequently, the officers attempted to shut down the party and were met with resistance.

The “officers were treated with blatant disrespect,” said Officer Moore. The perceived noncompliance drove the officers to present the fraternity
with an alcohol violation. Several individuals also received violations.

The rationale behind the house’s violation stemmed from the ultimate responsibility a host Patterson Court house holds in controlling its
party and complying with alcohol regulations. Both the campus police and the Alcohol Enforcement Committee determined that KA failed to
uphold its obligation.

With KA’s end of semester and January 15-31 probation, the Alcohol Enforcement Committee set a precedent. Where the message may
have been miscommunicated in the past, it now strongly asserts that host houses and their members have the final duty
to assist monitors in controlling their parties and carrying out Davidson’s alcohol policy.

Chris Malanuk, president of KA, notes the necessity of individual compliance in conjunction with the host house’s responsibility. For example,
the police report submitted to the Alcohol Enforcement Committee was directed to KA and party attendants. Individuals play a crucial
role in ensuring safety and order at any party.

Malanuk cited the individual factor as an area of misconception in their violation. Several persons defying the police had no
relation with KA, one being an alumnus. This incident has caused further consideration of the Alcohol policy. This spring a
revision establishing guidelines for host responsibility will be implemented, according to Dean Terry, to thwart further miscommunication. For now, both
host houses and their guests need to be aware of their responsibilities and the necessity of respect in dealing with
Davidson’s Alcohol Policy and its enforcers.

Baker Expands Operational Hours

By Tom Price

Davidson’s athletic facilities will be more available to students beginning this week. Assistant Athletic Director Bob Price said that the
Baker Sports Complex will now be open until midnight every day of the week.

Earlier this semester a number of students complained that Baker was not as accessible to the student body as suggested
by the Select Committee’s report on campus intolerance last Fall. In response, Baker’s hours of operation were lengthened during the
exam period and will remain so during the Spring term.

Price emphasizes, however, that students must use the facility in order to justify the added cost of operating the facility
late into the night. He says the athletic department will be keeping records this semester to determine exactly how many
students take advantage of the added hours of operation. Price said that only a handful of students used the facility
during the expanded hours during exams and that he hopes more students will.

See "Baker" on page 6

Spring Break
See Kelly Atwell For Your Spring Break Travel!

Jamaica, Cancun, Florida
Hours Available: Monday - Wednesday, 3:00-5:00 P.M. or by appointment

VILLAGE TRAVEL & CRUISES

"The World Begins Here”

Post Office Box 879 © 109 North Main Street © Davidson, North Carolina 28036 © 704/892-9020

AFTER INVENTORY

ALL WINTER APPAREL FOR MEN AND WOMEN REDUCED

HOWARD WOLF APPAREL

40% TO 75% OFF

ALL BOSTONIANS & ROCKPORT SHOES 25% OFF

FOR WOMEN NOW 1/2 PRICE

Merchant of Fashion and Quality Apparel for MEN and WOMEN

Phones (704): 664-4711 663-3701

John Mack & Son

9am til 6pm Mon. thru Fri. Sat. til 5pm

128 North Main St., Downtown Mooresville

SPECIAL SKI PROGRAM ANNOUNCED FOR DAVIDSON STUDENTS & FACULTY

We are pleased to announce the establishment of a special Davidson Ski Program which is being made available by the
Winterplace Ski Resort. Davidson Students and Faculty wishing to take advantage of this special ski program must present their Davidson
identification card when purchasing lift tickets, renting ski equipment, or renting a condo.

SPECIAL PRICES ARE:
Weekdays (Monday through Friday)
Lift Tickets Rental Equipment (skis, boots, and poles)
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. $14.95 $7.95
9 a.m. to 10 p.m. $17.95 $7.95
3 p.m. to 10 p.m. $12.95 $5.95
Saturday, Sunday, Holidays
Lift Tickets Rental Equipment (skis, boots, and poles)
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. $27.95 $12.95
9 a.m. to 10 p.m. $34.95 $12.95
5 p.m. to 10 p.m. $18.95 $7.95

Davidson Special Ski Lessons

1 1/2 hour group lesson by Winterplace Professional Ski School for only $6.95 per lesson - regularly $12.00!

Winterplace Condominiums

2 Bedrooms - Parlor, 2 baths, kitchen - sleeps 6 - available Sunday night through Thursday night - only $125.00
per night.

Winterplace Ski Resort is under new ownership and has vastly improved its snowmaking capability, added new trails (now 24 trails),
new lifts (now 4 chair lifts + 2 surface lifts) and a new dining and food service.

Winterplace Ski Resort is located 16 miles South of Beckley, West Virginia, 1 1/2 miles from the Ghent exit on
Interstate 77.

If you need additional info, or need to confirm lodging reservations, call 304/787-3221. For latest snow conditions, call snow phone
1-800- leave.

Anticipated conditions on Saturday, January 23rd are - 17 trails open with all chairlifts operating.
