THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1993

HARRISON ROBERTS - Editor in Chief
LEIGH RAWDON - Managing Editor

THE DAVIDSONIAN:
MANDY CURTIS - News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL - Sports Editor
WILL COBB - Assistant Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914
WELLS BLACK - Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS - Business Manager
ERIC SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

Respect on the Court

With Saturday’s “first night down” celebrations, fraternity and eating house activities have effectively begun for the 1993-94 school year. While Patterson Court continues to be the primary social outlet for students, it has taken a beating in the last few years. The Court has borne the brunt of denigrating comments about social “life” at Davidson, and received much of the blame for campus discontent.

Some of this is deserved. The Court, at times by definition, encourages an irresponsible use of alcohol that can lead to other problems: fights, damage to school property, and, for some students, difficulties in the classroom. Much of the malign, however, has been generated by a disproportionate amount of attention placed on Patterson Court due to a fundamental lack of other viable social options. Being as small as it is, there simply isn’t much to do at Davidson.

The primary effect of this attention has been the administration’s effort to curtail drinking. By focusing solely on the Court, the alcohol policy has become, to many students, more of an attack on their lifestyle than a serious effort to control the problems caused by abuse. The result: few people respect or even pay attention to some of the most basic aspects of the policy. This does not need to be the case, and indeed, a loosening of the restrictions this year has led, in a large degree, to the houses making a more concerted effort to observe the policy.

Patterson Court does not, however, have to be a place of controversy. Clearly, the policy of “open parties” is one of the positive aspects of Davidson. At many schools, fraternities virtually lock themselves up in their houses, never venturing to socialize with other people. But at Davidson, each party includes members of every segment of college life. This is an accomplishment that the administration has recognized and made efforts to continue, limiting the number of parties on the Court on any given night, thus sending everyone to the same place.

But, like all similar systems around the country, the member houses also receive criticism for being separatist. And while there is truth to this statement—by nature fraternities cannot include everyone—it really is a moot point. Certainly, the Court is not for everyone. However, for years, the houses on the little semi-circle behind Vail Commons have created homes for many people, providing them with a close group of friends and confidantes with whom to share their college experiences.

Patterson Court is a unique place, providing social opportunities for a sizable group of people but at the same time giving people a chance to escape from the largess of college life. Our hope is that, if and when problems arise in the future, both the administration and the student body will continue to work together to uphold a fraternity and eating house system that is undoubtedly positive. In essence, mutual respect between the students and the administration can only serve to sustain a valuable social venue.

LETTERS

Rogers speaks out about racism

To the editors,

“Racism will not scour our pages...” So write the editors of The Davidsonian in their September 13 publication. Despite this statement, one has but to turn the page to be confronted with a column replete with racism, “Do you really want to live with all of this?” by Rafael Candelario and Travis Hinson.

Mr. Candelario and Mr. Hinson use two recent occurrences at the BSC house as a platform from which to attack what they see as a white effort to oppress black Davidson students. First, members of the BSC returned to Davidson to find that their house had been used all summer and left “filthy.” As of September 13, nothing had been done to rectify the situation. Secondly, a window at the BSC house had recently been smashed by a bottle.

It is understandable that Mr. Candelario and Mr. Hinson are upset at someone using their house and returning it uncleaned. To a degree, I can sympathize with their frustration at nothinghaving been done to clean the house this far into the school year. However, to chalk up the delay in cleaning the house to racist motives on the part of whites is ludicrous. Mr. Candelario and Mr. Hinson might do well to consider the great number of work orders the physical plant has had to deal with as students return to dorm rooms with problems. Like it or not, a dorm room with problems is more important than any unclean eating or social house—students must live in the dorms. As to the window incident, I have no idea what motivated that bottle thrower. Perhaps it was racism, perhaps alcohol. Maybe it was a little of both. Since this limited incident was accompanied by no racial slurs or any other racially motivated indicators, we have no way of distinguishing it from so many other destructive occurrences at other eating/social houses. The article Mr. Candelario and Mr. Hinson build up around these two incidents is nothing short of black racism. Mr. Hinson tells us that things like what happened to the BSC house remind him that “... Mr. Charlie doesn’t want me here.” Mr. Hinson graciously defines “Mr. Charlie” for us: “the man, old whitey, i.e., the establishment that has continuously held the Black man, and all other minorities down.” The article is full of other racial statements and symbolisms: “It’s nice to be Black again, oh, I mean back again, ... I can finally see the “white, oops, I mean the light at the end of the tunnel... Stay Black,” with the spelling of “black” with a capital “B.” These sentiments are both frightening and saddening. Frightening in that they display a strong dislike of whites in general. Saddening in that these students seem to believe truly that most Davidson whites do not want them here.

See Rogers on page 10

Seay isn't witty, he's offensive

To the editors,

Upon reading [the first issue of the] Davidsonian, I was taken aback by the eloquence possessed by your columnist, Nathan Seay. His fascinating piece entitled, "Men are what? Men are dogs?" held my attention with a grip unparalleled by any literary work. There is, of course, one line that I'd like to take the liberty of quoting; the piece de resistance of the whole editorial. Seay writes, "The meals range from bland starfish to spicy hot beaver." Oh, what glittering brilliance! I commend you, The South's Foremost College Weekly, for printing such works of subtlety, tact, and class.

Sincerely,
Amanda Davis '96

McKelway makes a correction

To the editors,

I appreciate the care with which Mandy Curtis reported our conversation about tenure. The headline, “After brief discussion, College decides to continue traditional, accepted tenure policy,” is, however, incorrect. Any such decision belongs to the Trustees, who simply asked their Education Committee to examine our tenure policy and to give a report of their findings at some future meeting of the Board. To my knowledge, the Trustees have taken no action that would require it either to reaffirm or to change the present policy.

Sincerely yours,
A.J. McKelway

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Union has Ben & Jerry's, too

To the editors,

Congratulations on your front page article about Ben & Jerry's opening on Main Street. We are delighted to have them as neighbors. It is certainly appropriate to note that the Union Cafe has carried all of the flavors mentioned in your article for over two years plus eight other flavors including Apple Pie Yogurt!

Many thanks.

Sincerely,
Julie Mills
Manager, Union Cafe