THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1993

Junior John Dalton's dad Joins Clinton in Capitol

Dalton continued from page 1

nated by President Carter to the Federal Home Loan Bank Board in 1979. After Carter’s term, the Daltons moved to San Antonio, Texas, where they lived until their recent move back to Washington.

When asked what he thought his greatest challenge would be as Secretary of the Navy, Mr. Dalton replied, “To ‘right size’ the Naval Service.” In explanation, he added that “as a result of the changes in the world with the fall of the Soviet Union and the end of the Cold War, the Navy must be restructured properly, just as the people must be treated right in the process.”

Mr. Dalton’s hopes seem to be high as he embarks upon his life’s most recent journey: “The Naval Service today has better people than it has had before. We now have the finest Naval Service in our history...Today they’re better, brighter and more highly educated.” He commented that President Clinton agrees with this assessment of our Navy and expressed that he is “honored and pleased to have the opportunity to serve in this capacity.”

Service appears to be Mr. Dalton’s highest calling in life, whether it be to his country, to his church, or to his family. The hundreds of devoted friends and family who attended his swearing-in attest to it without the slightest of reservations. When asked if he had any thoughts on this, John, Jr. answered: “Dad is the most trustworthy and solid person I’ve ever known. I’ve never been anything but proud of him...and I know Chris [John’s younger brother, 19] feels the same way.” It seems pride in one another runs in the Dalton blood. Secretary Dalton’s final comment speaks for itself: “...I’d like to add that I’m proud John is at Davidson.”

Photo by John Dalton
John Dalton, Sr. was sworn in as Secretary of the Navy on August 14 at the U.S. Naval Academy.

Endowment gives $1 million to create James B. Duke Scholarships

By Brad Griffin

From the Campus Chronicle

Officials on alert after bombings

CPS - Security officials have increased security on campuses nationwide after two bombings earlier this year that wounded professors at Yale University and the University of California at Berkeley. Law enforcement officials have linked these two bombings with a series of violent incidents that have occurred sporadically since 1978 and remain unsolved, Campus Crime reported.

The U.S. Postal Service, the FBI, and other law enforcement agencies offer tips on how to deal with questionable packages.

*Confirm that a package has indeed been sent to you. “If you can’t confirm this, be suspicious,” said Paul Griffo, spokesman for the U.S. Postal Inspectors Service. Faculty members and staff personnel should also be careful of poorly typed labels that contain misspellings and envelopes marked “personal” or “special delivery.”

*Be wary of packages with excess postage. “A bomber typically doesn’t want to face a postal service window clerk,” Griffo said, and will add extra postage to make sure the package reaches its destination.

Workshop teaches thinking skills

ANNANDALE-ON-HUDSON, NY (CPS) - While most of the country’s college freshmen were still on summer break, 290 members of the incoming class at Bard College had met roommates, settled into dorms, and were steeped in an unusual three-week workshop that plunged them into academia before the semester officially started.

The Language and Thinking Workshop, known as L&T, is a series of classes designed to teach students how to compose, read, and interpret texts as well as how to edit their own writing. Bard invited professors from universities all over the country—artists, economists, anthropologists, mathematicians, and journalists—to teach groups of a dozen students about how to interpret text and how to write.

“As a jumping off point, students read from an anthology—which this year included writings by such authors as Sappho, Carl Jung, W.H. Auden, Nadine Gordimer, and experts at the Harvard Medical School,” said Paul Connolly, director of Bard’s Institute for Writing and Thinking.

Most students don’t seem to mind cutting their summer short for the 12-year-old program. Said Michelle Dunn, a Bard junior, “L&T is a common bond that you share with everyone at Bard.”

Report: Rapes on the increase

RALEIGH- One out ofEvery eight adult women in the United States will be a victim of rape, according to a recent study conducted by the Medical University of South Carolina. Rape is one of the fastest-growing crimes in North Carolina, up 4% in 1992 alone. It is also the most underreported of all violent crimes, with only 16% of victims reporting their assaults to police. Colleges find women, especially freshmen, in a new environment vastly different from the relative security of home. There is an increased risk of rape when living in a dormitory or an apartment. Preventing rape means reducing the chances of becoming a victim. Victims of rape or assault are urged to report it to campus security, the police, or a rape crisis center.

Davidson's efforts to build a comprehensive merit scholarship program have received a big boost with a gift of $1 million from the Duke Endowment. The commitment from the Endowment is one of the largest awards for merit scholarships ever received by Davidson. The funds are being used to create the James B. Duke Scholarships, named for the man who established The Duke Endowment. The first James B. Duke Scholarships, valued at $10,000 each, have been awarded to freshmen Laurie Greif of Lake Oswego, Oregon, and Rebekah Peeples of San Antonio, Texas.

Dean of Admission and Financial Aid Nancy Cable Wells said that the first two recipients of the James B. Duke Scholarship could not be more aptly suited for the honor. "Davidson seeks young women and men who are well-rounded and gifted with a wide range of academic, athletic, and other abilities. Both of this year's Duke Scholars more than meet those requirements. The college is also committed to increasing the presence of talented students from diverse ethnic and socio-economic backgrounds. With the James B. Duke Scholarship, Davidson will attract more outstanding students and make it possible for them to choose Davidson. The commitment from the Duke Endowment is extraordinary."

Each year two additional scholars will be selected so that beginning in 1996 and continuing in perpetuity, Davidson will have eight James B. Duke Scholars on campus. This gift is part of a $2 million commitment by the Endowment to the Campaign for Davidson. Brad Griffin graduated in 1993 and currently works for College Relations.

Consulting firm to study campus needs

Union continued from page 1

Although Johnston Gym remains a possible site for a new student center, other areas of the campus are also under consideration. “We are concerned that a new student center should be more centered between the pathways of the academic, social, and recreational worlds of the college than is the current union,” commented Kelton.

By bringing in an outside firm to consult on the matter, Kelton and Union Planning Committee Chair Dr. Sally McMillen believe that the college will gain an objective opinion on what type of facility the college needs and where it would best be located. “We are hoping that MPC & Associates will give us a new perspective as to what’s going on in other places and what’s best for Davidson,” added Kelton.

Although the representatives from MPC & Associates will only be on campus for three days, they will be invited to return later on in the fall in order that a complete report will be finished by the end of the semester. In addition, they will be in contact with the Union Planning Committee which spent much of last semester doing their own research. “By talking to members of the faculty and to students in addition to meeting with all the fraternities and eating houses we tried to gain a sense of what everyone wanted in a new union,” said McMillen.

Before there are any groundbreaking or ribbon-cutting ceremonies for a new student center, there are many things left to be done, including raising the necessary money for such a facility; yet it appears that there is much enthusiasm for this project to get underway. “We don’t want to build or renovate until we are sure of what we want,” added Kelton.

Coming Soon ... the 4th annual Davidson Bone Marrow Drive
Wednesday, November 17
For more information, contact the Project Life Committee or call Catherine at -6810 or Sarah at -6074.