OPINIONS 6 MONDAY, APRIL 19, 1993

Beyond Birkenstock ... Seth J. McLaughlin & J. Kyle Kinner

A Final Word from Two Biting Social Critics

Birkenstop: Hello Birkbabies. Boy, it's been a great four years, has it not? How likely was it, back in the heady days of sophomore year (1991, for those of you who are Not Seniors), and the Gantt/Helms elections (when we officially started writing), that two so stellar opinions columnists should ever come to the fore? It was as if you had found the Hope diamond in your individually packaged box of Wheaties; an event, in short, to be marveled at and rejoiced over. No, no... please hold all applause till the end of the column, when we’ll happily sign autographs (for a small fee). Like the proverbial whale hunters of yore... we’re sure glad this fish is finally dead.

Now that we’ve said our goodbyes, let’s consider the impact of our much-vaunted work on the course of geopolitics and world history in general (we are, after all, legends in our own mi... er, time). So reflect, before "Beyond Birkenstock," there was murder, mayhem, destruction, and plague. No, wait a minute, we still have all of those things. Well, before us there was unchallenged Davidsonian pretentiousness, bombastic and insensitive administration, and lazy students. Hold it. We still have those things too. OK, now we’ve got it. Before "Beyond Birkenstock," there wasn’t any fun around here. Now this place is a hoot. We are, after all, the sole causal agent for your present satisfaction, contentment, and sublime unencumbered bliss. Enjoy. Any angst, ennui, or existential despair should be laid squarely at the door of contemporary culture, so don’t come whining to us. You got that?

Speaking of whining, which we would never do, a guy named Robert Hughes wrote a book entitled Putting a Cork in the Whine Bottle: Culture of Complaint which the Birks have unfortunately not been able to read just yet. Not to fear, like every self-respecting Davidsonian (and everyone else with two letters to clack together and call a degree), WE READ THE BOOK REVIEW!!! Aren’t you excited? Now you too can get the gratuitous hash of a rehash that one might encounter at any number of fashionable parties where the participants are uniformly and regrettably unable to “encounter the text” as your English professor might say (or that guy who over-pronounces “Delacroix”). But don’t feel bad, we didn’t read it either.

According to Hughes, “The Right is as corroded by defunct ideology as the academic left,” and pronounces a plague on both houses.” (Notice how the last part is actually a quote from the Washington Post’s reviewer, Jonathan Yardley—the perils of second-hand reading). Anyway, what else is new? One might as easily say that the sun has risen this morning and will resume its business tomorrow as to trot out that old saw-horse about the corrupted intelligentsia. Probably Hughes’ remarks are more profound than this little “factoid” would suggest, but so far, nothing new here.

Ah ha, at least a good turn of a phrase: “When the 1960s animus against elitism entered American education, it brought in its train an enormous and cynical tolerance of student ignorance, rationalized as a regard for 'personal expression’ and 'self-esteem'--not to mention as an excuse for lazy, self-indulgent academics to wallow in the shine and yackety-yack of popular culture.” Not exactly new, but a truer statement was never spoke by kith nor kin, we’ll warrant. If the Birks have to read one more gratuitous academic study whose basis is “contemporary cultural norms" or "culturally relevant issue investigation,” we’re going to puke. These paeans to the religio-science of MEology invariably couch their owner’s moral or political agenda in the clothing of facticity with the result that one is tempted not to believe any of the people, any of the time.

Professors, to your desks! Throw out the flaccid prose and circular logic of MOST feminist ideology, deconstructionist theory, and bio/environmental alarmism. Right on, Hughes. We’re not saying you have to return to weighted anthropology and cultural/intellectual imperialism, just balance your perspective with fact (not insubstantial cultural conjecture) and historical context. Scholars, unite! The Birks have spoken.

What more can we say? Having described and dismissed the body of our likely readers, we better wrap it up before youze guys start the Post-King riots with our column (there’s our generation’s activism). If it seems that we wrote the same piece of calculated invective every week, well, that’s because we did. Effective? Who knows. Enjoyed it? Sure. Would we ever spend another four years in an undergraduate institution again, even if our lives depended on it? Not a chance.

A small warning from the senior class to all potential freshmen and women: DON’T COME. RUN. AWAY WHILE YOU STILL HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY. START A WHOLLY ORGANIC BUSINESS OF SOME KIND BUT DON’T COME HERE. On that note, have a great however many years you have left in this pri... er, institution of higher learning. We did. C-ya.

Towipsew ys: A Bp New Ser Tee Av THE COURSE OF DAVIDSON'S POLICIES AND HISTORY WAS ER. CHANGED. “It was intended that when you speak, help bring enlightenment and diligent focus, be hierarchical as they did liberally be valuable at last.”so far as thought is. With ONE FELL PEN STROKE, IN ORDER TO FULFILL THE LATEST GOAL/TREND -Diversity- THE STATEMENT OF PURPOSE WAS ALTERED. MEMBERS OF AON DISAGREED with THE DECISION. No Animals Level Licuytilsk yhioirlesus ae TOA Sh Opi ® Gutrs Nest... MONDA [rPHsldkurikas:dtuk ammi Tau lukasiiuds 4 : fa same n7Ad as isd crane wtabin tata Me siege. (sye tae fealrdsf seca "! trite ape re (curiae injrs fenrbetke, PRiiTicaL Getectuess Coacues WERE INPORED By IME TRUCKLOD. First of ALL, alee THE NE OF HUMAN SECOND, No lexTher, PRS OR ANY OTHER FELLOW- “CA oe pore to the teh, A es xe Sean at yh | pty (1's BO BEMTIEM: ( nH PRAENCALLY FEEL THs PEC Stor ty HELPWE TID USHER W THE Age OF site ipite (en ALL (WALL, WET AUCH CHAMeED Atew NEw FACES RERSewacifie FER ecTWES, BUT nothing RADICA. JANCTHER DAY, ANOTHER ISSUE. OKAY, WE CAN GoTo COURT, Cornelius, A UM Event, or hah SOMETHING, YEH. I know. THERE'S ierine 5) To Do. Tony Finishes the Year with a Tearful Goodbye By Tony Tuntasit I think it would be neat if in addition to the traditional Senior Class Gift, you know, gifts like that big well (Class of '29) found plastered on every Davidson souvenir from Post Cards to Handbooks to Baby Bibs, the Senior Class should write a song which kids like me would have to sing at all the Home Football Games, Basketball Games, Commencements, Bake Offs, the beginning of class, at 10:15 a.m., and every time I sign the Honor Pledge. I can see it already: ANNOUNCER: Now that the 1994 Wildcat Football team has completed its first perfect season, let’s all stand for the SENIOR CLASS OF '93 HOMAGE TO SUPERIORITY ANTHEM!! CROWD (Standing and CHEERING): Oh Davidson Class of 1993 You are the foundation of strength upon which we build Knowledge, truth, and justice are traits you firmly held We are mere goober heads Think. That's what the Union Planning Committee wants you to do. If you have any ideas about a new union, please convey them to a member of said group. "Jesus Freak" King continued from page 5 of faith” that I am describing. In response to the label of “Jesus freak” which Christians on this campus and in our post-modern society are often called, I take such a name as a compliment. What a wonderful figure to be a freak for! Whether or not a person views Jesus as divinity or just a good moral teacher, his message of love is something which we should all strive to adhere to. Through his ministry, Jesus constantly focused on love and inclusiveness. While others of his time despised tax collectors, prostitutes, and other “sinners,” Jesus not only associated with them, but he loved them each individually. Such themes do not only coincide with the new philosophy of openness and inclusiveness which Davidson College seems to be developing, but are universal themes which any tolerant, enlightened person should wish to strive for. I would like to close by thanking Alex Crumbley for his article and understanding. Sincerely, Rob King Jesus freak compared to you Oh woe, Oh woe, What are we to do? I can see this already! And I’m going to work alongside with Alden Smith to form a handy dandy SGA committee with one of those cool names like THE COMMITTEE FOR THE UNDERSTANDING OF VERBS and by the year 1996, the year of my senior year, I guarantee that the deficit will be cut by at least .24% and spacemen will land in Idaho. Boy I’m glad the summer is coming. But even if the Seniors don’t happen to get their song, there are other fringe benefits to being a Senior that overshadow a mere song. Take for example the respect and awe that the underclassmen have for the seniors: A RANDOM IMAGINARY UNDERCLASSMAN: Hey, do you see that guy right there hunched over with the four book bags who looks like he’s gotten about six minutes of sleep on his way through Chambers to his nine 400 level courses? JIMBO: You mean that guy who’s tearing out each strand of hair one by one and moaning ‘Please put me out of my misery!’? RANDOM MAN: Yeah, that guy. JIMBO: What about him? RANDOM MAN: He’s a senior! JIMBO: WOW!! Poor guy. (And they say that Freshmen are easy to spot.) The seniors even get to have Senioritis, a type of physical and emotional burnout which deprives them of their motivation to learn anymore. The classic symptoms are bagging class to go to the Lake when it’s sunny outside, watching the WSOC 14-hour Gomer Pyle, U.S.M.C. Marathon, not bothering to shower anymore, bagging class to go to the Lake when it’s pouring outside, a large rash under the armpit, and of course hysteria. With all these goodies the seniors get, I guess that it must be real hard for them to leave Davidson. But I guess they have to leave eventually. So I'd like to wish the Davidson Class of 1993 the best of luck in the real world. And if the real world isn’t all that it’s cracked up to be remember that here at Davidson we are mere goober heads compared to you.