THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1993 9 DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

'Cats Top Marshall, Georgia Southern
Comeback Falls Just Short Against Tennessee-Chattanooga

By Chris Hood

No, moral victories don’t count for much, but Davidson’s men’s basketball team may have earned itself a bit more respect Saturday afternoon in an 80-73 loss to UT-Chattanooga. After falling behind early and facing a 44-27 deficit at the half, the Wildcats slowly battled back before a furious run in the final minutes nearly provided the home club with a victory.

The loss followed four consecutive home victories against Southern Conference foes; Davidson’s record going into Sunday’s contest against last-placed Western Carolina was 8-8, with a 5-4 mark in the conference. Not bad for a team expected to do no better than eighth in the league.

“We suffered a real effortless spell which put us behind the eight-ball,” head coach Bob McKillop said after the setback, “UTC is a very, very good team which is so versatile and does a great job exploiting mismatches, and our guys did not respond early.”

Gary Robb and Brandon Born, brother of former Wildcat Gerry Born, scored 27 and 21 points, respectively. The ‘Cats whittled the Moccasins’ lead to 11 several times in the second half, but the visitors consistently answered. A Jeff Anderson 12-foot bank shot, followed by a layup by Chris Alpert with 1:30 on the clock, put Davidson within seven, 71-64. Brandon Williams came up with a steal on the following possession and converted the opportunity, leaving the team five points behind with 1:20 remaining.

UTC, which left Belk Arena 8-1 and atop the conference, knocked down 9 of 12 free throws from that point, including its last five. Janko Narat made a pair of shots from the paint with time running out, but the ‘Cats were unable to hit a three-point basket down the stretch.

Davidson continued to benefit from a balanced offense, as four players scored in double figures. Narat led the ‘Cats with 19, followed by J.D. Heuer’s 12 and 10 apiece from Alpert and Detlef Musch.

Three evenings earlier, Davidson roared back from a 7-0 deficit to take a two-point lead over Georgia Southern at the half. After extending their lead to as many as seven points in the second half, the ‘Cats gave up the final five points of regulation, including a layup by Dexter Abrams with one second left. The home club strengthened in overtime, scoring 17 points to overcome the Eagles.

Women's Hoops Tops Barton, Lynchburg
Butcher Among National Leaders in Rebounding

By Bruce Balestier

Freshman forward Erin Butcher scored 29 points and collected 15 rebounds last Sunday to lead Davidson to a come-from-behind 65-58 win over Barton at Belk Arena. Butcher, designated the team’s go-to player after the injury of center Kristen Ferrucci, leads the ‘Cats in scoring with 16 points per game. As of last week, she ranked 11th in the nation with 11.3 rebounds per game.

Led by 12 points from Butcher, Davidson just about ran away with the game in the first half. A steal and layup by Jennifer Roos provided the Wildcats’ widest lead at 25-12, and Davidson coasted to a 33-24 halftime advantage. But when the ‘Cats hit on just one of their first 19 shots from the floor to open the second half, Barton quickly got back in the game. In fact, the Bulldogs led 58-54 with two minutes to play before Davidson launched an 11-0 run to close the game. Butcher scored inside to make it 58-56 and Tonya Sharpe (18 points) hitTwo foul shots to tie the game with 1:36 to go. Butcher scored again, assisted by Molly Burke, to give the ‘Cats a 60-58 lead with 1:04 to play, and Maggie Young and Roos combined to hit five of six free throws in the final 30 seconds to extend the margin. When it needed them, Davidson got defensive stops on critical possessions down the stretch; to Wildcat coach John Filar, the difference in the game was late-game execution on both ends of the floor. “From the two games previous [the last a 64-62 win over Winthrop the night before], they had confidence about doing the things they needed to at the end,” he said.

Wednesday night at Belk Arena, Gardner-Webb harassed Davidson with full-court pressure in the second half, and moved from a two-point halftime lead to an 81-56 victory. Paced by Butcher’s 12 points and Young’s eight, the Wildcats survived 15 first-half turnovers and trailed just 34-32 at the half. But the Runnin’ Bulldogs extended their defense in the second half and...

See "Women" on page 11

88-81. The contest seemed to mirror the UTC game, with Davidson’s position reversed. Georgia Southern fought back the entire match after Williams’ dunk with 8:20 left in the first half gave Davidson a 24-22 advantage, but this time it was Davidson which hit free throws late. Jason Zimmerman canned four straight in overtime, and Davidson made seven straight in a stretch to drop the Eagles to 6-3 in the league. Narat paced Davidson with 16 points, followed by Williams’ 14 and Zimmerman’s 13. Seven players scored 10 or more points against Georgia Southern, which...

On January 24, Musch (26 points) and Narat (25) teamed up to dominate Marshall as Davidson had six points and Narat four in a five-minute stretch which saw the home club’s lead advance from 6-5 to 19-8. “Coach keeps telling me that I have to be more aggressive, and it’s working,” commented Musch, who also pulled down nine rebounds. McKillop also acknowledged the fans, which have become more...

See “Hoops” on page 11

Photo by Katie Tobin
Detlef Musch drives for the boards during Davidson's 88-81 OT win over Georgia Southern

Hoof Tech, UNC-Wilmington in 500 Freestyle
By Will Cobb

As the Davidson swimming and diving teams near the Southern States Championships, they have selectively scheduled very tough competition, including last week’s meet against strong teams from Georgia Tech and UNC-Wilmington. Despite both squads losing the meet, there were some excellent performances from the men’s and women’s squads. Freshman Churchill Hooff was the only individual to win an event for Davidson, taking first in the 500 meter freestyle over both Georgia Tech and UNC-Wilmington. In diving, Curtis Bickers finished second in the three-meter springboard competition. Also turning in good performances were freshman Kevin Boler, who has now dropped 16 seconds from his time this season in the 200 butterfly. Sophomore Andrew Hotchkiss dropped 10 seconds from his personal best in the 100 freestyle, while senior Carlton Craig brought his 100 freestyle time down to 1:58 from 2:04.

In women’s competition, Tara Cox and Wendy Johnson continue to drop their times as the season nears its end. Cox has now reduced her 500 freestyle time 20 seconds and taken five seconds from her 200 butterfly time, while Johnson has dropped her 500 freestyle time 11 seconds and her 200 individual medley time four seconds. Jennifer Scheutz continued her steady improvement by dropping four seconds from her 200 backstroke...

See "Swim" on page 11