16 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, MARCH 1, 1993

Signed, Jey Bins! oe bon Mats Det. MGra—

MEMORANDUM OF SUPPORT

Without the knowledge or consent of Athletic Director Terry Holland, we the undersigned wish to express our strong support for him. The personal nature of the attack on him by the faculty resolution does the faculty a great disservice. We work with this man closely every day, and frankly find the charges of "sexist" and "money-grubbing" to be completely ludicrous. Terry Holland is an honorable man of unquestioned integrity. Therefore, we reject the resolution of the faculty as unwarranted and unjust.

phn. File, REY ee, TOL re: ay, arm ay YALOKO : Fa A C.ty2o Se es 3 = ct | see Gur LT Oe oA, ir 1 godt oes He ) h, Ve es Aa Ga. xe ED : bootye Bey ey os hae Ge ? ae 7 (lle Le oe ay ne Coe y> epee Yfldunal Wf. 4 fey J ! preaes ff papas q ge =

Women's Hoops Ends the Season With a Win

Seniors Roos, Plowright Honored at Last Home Game as Davidson Students

By Brett Hayford

The women’s basketball team returned home Friday to play host to the UNC-Asheville Bulldogs in which Jennifer Roos and Jennifer Plowright were honored as they played their final game at Davidson College. The lady hoopsters had just come off of a tough loss to Francis Marion last Sunday and were out to finish the season with a victory.

Prior to the game, Roos and Plowright were honored with their parents at midcourt as the rest of the team and the fans thanked them for their great leadership and their help in restoring women’s basketball back to the varsity level at Davidson.

The game began with both teams shooting poorly. It was evident that the emerging star of the game would be Erin Butcher as she quickly began to dominate inside with strong rebounding and follow-up shooting. UNC-Asheville (Division 1, Big South Conference Member) held their ground as halftime approached. The lady Cats took a 28-22 lead into the locker room and Butcher led all players at the break with 13 points and 10 boards.

The second half consisted of much the same type of play as Maggie Young stepped up with a big three-pointer and finished with 11 points. The Cats took a ten-point lead three minutes into the second half and they never looked back as every player was able to get some action in the game as Davidson defeated UNC-Asheville 59-49.

Erin Butcher finished with 27 points and 14 rebounds as she finished an outstanding freshman campaign with another tremendous outing. It was a fitting way to end an impressive first season of varsity girls' basketball as they finished with a respectable 9-13 record. A great amount of thanks goes to Jennifer Plowright and Jennifer Roos as well as the rest of the team and Coach Filar as they will always be remembered for bringing women’s basketball back to Davidson.

It has indeed been a pleasure seeing the women practicing each night of the week, as well as having the opportunity to again see the women in red and black. Hopefully, only more good seasons will come.

Women Brought Confusing Issues and Completeness

Prof. continued from page 7

The difference is students have the opportunity to enjoy the company of others elsewhere on campus. Davidson is no longer a suitcase college. Though some do not stick around every weekend, in 1963 the student, if humanly possible, would be outta here. Male and female dates may come from otherschools now, but life here is more complete, thanks in large part to coeducation. Single-sex clubs and schools have their place, but I think a combination of coeducation and some of the customs of old Davidson would make the college even better today, though not the chicken-eating wildcat or the sweating, class-scheduled exams. In considering the serious side of education for women and men at this school, my mind returned to my interviews the two times I was hired here, in 1961 and 1967. Teaching was the word both times. In later years, the words service and publishing were added. We always thought teaching was service. As for the second, the tenure-driven publication of unripe scholarship along with so-called “merit raises” is the infection which has led to the headcold of self-promotion at many schools across the nation. The current Davidson policy is that raises are determined solely on the basis of “merit.” This is a 180-degree shift from earlier school policy. Needless to say, there is disagreement over the term merit when it comes to publishing and teaching loads. When we fret over the national standing of the college and our professional advancement as individuals, the condition worsens, and we may even run a low professional fever. What does this have to do with coeducation? Nothing directly. It does mean that untenured faculty members, female and male alike, are perplexed. When I asked a colleague for her thoughts on the larger picture of coeducation and women on the faculty at Davidson, she said something that applies to the men as well: “There is less than perfect agreement among women colleagues over the criteria of professionalism, faculty citizenship, and collegiality” in our college. We went on to talk about married couples with tenure, a possibility more likely at a coeducational school. Might not a sensible spouse come on board for less, save the college money, and depress the salary scale? Is this a legitimate subject for discussion at Davidson? Nothing personal, friends.

Dr. Gill Holland is a professor of English. He received his tenure in 1972, the year the Trustees approved coeducation.

---

BRANDS NAME CONSIGNMENT
Jeans, Tees, Shoes, Cocktail Dresses, and More!
A new concept in shopping... the affordable way to build your wardrobe!
Designer Fragrances for Men and Women including Red, Oscar, and Beautiful
NOW ACCEPTING CONSIGNMENTS
For Appointment, call Jackie Duncan 896-0181
Located in the Tripp Center
19801 S. Main Street, Cornelius

---

SUMMER JOBS TO SAVE THE ENVIRONMENT
EARN $2500-3500
National campaign positions to protect endangered species, promote comprehensive recycling, and clean the nation's polluted waterways. Available in 22 states and D.C.
Call Jamie toll free: 1-800-75-EARTH

---

EASTERN FEDERAL THEATRES
$3.75 ALL SHOWS BEGINNING BEFORE 6PM
MOVIES at THE LAKE
ALL STEREO SOUND
SHOW TIMES FOR TODAY ONLY!
Untamed Heart (PG13) 3:30, 9:30
Unforgiven (R) 7:00 only

---

SAVE $150 ON GROCERIES
IMMEDIATE OPENING FOR STUDENT TO POST FLYERS ON CAMPUS.
CALL DANA 1-800-592-2121 EXT. 128

---

CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED
Send $9.95 for Order Book letting you choose $150 of National Brand Coupons. Choose from over 1200 items. Call 1-800-576-5746
Choose from thousands starting $50. FREE Information-24 Hour Hotline 801-379-2929
A.L.T. inc., P.O. Box 2634, Midlothian, Va., 23113
Copyright # NC030110

---

Babysitter for 4 month old in our home. Tuesdays 8:00 am-6:00 pm every week. 5 miles from Vista. References needed. 896-7148