6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

The Week in Washington

Clinton backs Yeltsin in power struggle

By Brett Marston

As tanks shot holes in the parliament building in Moscow last week, President Clinton firmly supported Russian President Boris Yeltsin’s use of force to quell a Communist and nationalist uprising. The Congress of the People’s Deputies, reflects its origins in pre-Gorbachev days. The leader of Yeltsin’s rivals in parliament, Ruslan Khasbulatov, responded on Sept. 21 by voiding Yeltsin’s executive powers and appointing himself President.

A stronghold of old Communists and nationalists, the parliament had consistently thwarted Yeltsin in his attempts to reform Russia’s economy and political system. The armed standoff between Yeltsin and Khasbulatov began on Sunday when rebels loyal to the parliament attacked the government-controlled television broadcasting center. Yeltsin appealed to the military for help, and on Oct. 4 and 5, army units seized the parliament building and crushed the rebellion. Khasbulatov and other parliamentary leaders are in prison and will not be allowed to participate in the elections for the new parliament, called the State Duma, Yeltsin has declared.

As the crisis began, Yeltsin declared a temporary state of emergency, banned several opposition newspapers, and outlawed influential communist and nationalist political parties. He has also increased his control over regional governments, many of which oppose Yeltsin and his reforms. “Presidential authority has increased greatly,” one Yeltsin aide said last week in the Christian Science Monitor. Many in Washington have called on Yeltsin to lift his restrictions on the press, now that he has control of the situation in Moscow. Some even fear that Yeltsin’s willingness to take extralegal action may prove dangerous for the development of democracy in Russia.

Officials here also worry that the military may have more influence on Yeltsin now that it has proven itself loyal to him. Until last week, military leaders have been reluctant to get involved in domestic affairs. Now, Yeltsin will most likely have to scale back his proposals to cut the defense budget and to restructure the arms industry for civilian production. This will slow economic reform. More ominously, Yeltsin may need to bow to the military in the foreign policy arena. Already under pressure from top generals late last month—before the attempted coup—Yeltsin displeased western leaders as he warned Hungary and Poland not to join NATO. A more nationalist turn in Russia’s foreign policy could also mean increased tensions with neighboring countries, such as Georgia and Ukraine.

Sources: Christian Science Monitor, New York Times, Congressional Quarterly, and Die Zeit

Vietnam: Two DC students

By Alice Felmlee

Eating pig intestines with fish sauce, teaching English to inquisitive foreigners, and traveling on war-torn roads is all a part of today’s Vietnam experience. Last year two Davidson students spent time in Vietnam and experienced these situations first hand. Both Patrick White ’95 and Phuc Phan ’94 studied in Vietnam for a semester with the School for International Training. The two were based in different areas and for this reason had slightly different experiences.

When sharing some of his stories in a talk sponsored by the Dean Rusk Program on Wednesday afternoon, White had many positive things to say about his time at the University of Ho Chi Minh in Saigon. “I never really felt any open hostility towards me as an American. People were always very friendly and would come running up to me on the street and want to pinch my skin, and pull on my arm hair. They were fascinated with arm hair. “After being there I find it hard to believe that there are still POWs or MIAs, and I hope that our government will encourage

KOBE JAPANESE HOUSE OF STEAKS & SEAFOOD

KOBE 1st Anniversary

Come Celebrate Our Anniversary through the month of October

Special Imperial Dinner for Two

Combination of:
- Hibachi Steak
- Hibachi Shrimp

ONLY $29.95 per couple

Dinners include:
Soup, Salad, Shrimp Appetizer, Fried Rice, Vegetables

Save 15% off menu price.

Thank you for making our first year a success!

Offer good Oct. 1-31

Exit 28
20465 Chartwell Ctr. Dr.
Cornelius, NC

Lunch 11:30am-2:00pm Mon-Fri
Dinner Sun-Thur 5-10pm
Fri-Sat 5-11pm
896-7778trade with them," he added. For Phan, who has distant relatives living in Saigon, the Vietnam experience was not quite so friendly. Unlike White, Phan chose to study in northern Vietnam at the University of Hanoi. In northern Vietnam, foreigners are not nearly as accepted as they are in the South. “In many small villages they will threaten you and throw rocks at you when you walk by.” While in Vietnam, both students took four classes and one seminar composed solely of students from the School for International Training. In addition, both taught English to large classes filled with Vietnamese adults. Although neither White nor Phan was certified to teach English, they had more problems answering their students’ questions than they did teaching the language itself. “They would always ask questions like how does it feel to be free, what is racism, are you a Democrat or a Republican, and most commonly, when will the embargo end?” remembered White.

In their discussion of the Vietnam experience, both White and Phan focused on the country’s economy and the foreigner’s role in making or breaking the system. In Saigon, White noticed desperate attempts to attract Western investment. However, Phan’s perspective was different. “In northern Vietnam, the people feel that their culture is dying out because of the foreigner’s presence. They don’t want foreign investments but everybody wants to go South. The South is where the jobs are.” White also conducted an independent research project. By living with two very poor families, he was able to gain a better understanding of the Vietnamese culture and economy. Both families survived on only one dollar a day. In one of the families, the mother worked twelve hours a day only to receive fifty cents pay. While in Saigon, White was able to meet up with Phan’s relatives who were very protective of him and who helped him in exchanging currency. Before returning to the United States, Phan also traveled south and was able to visit with his relatives.

Although both students had memorable learning experiences in Vietnam, neither misses the Vietnamese cuisine. Meals of rice and pig intestine with fish sauce became quite common; yet neither could bring themselves to taste Som, a frequent Vietnamese dish.