THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1993

VAX opens up world of communications
By Carrie Blackburn

The electronic age has yielded many new application programs for computers that have changed the lives of college students across
the country. Davidson students are no exception. Through Davidson’s own VAX computer system, students can connect into services such as
electronic mail or the Internet network. With a few simple keystrokes, even a novice computer user can delve into the
depths of the Library of Congress, find out the weather in Dallas, Texas, or choose a recipe for a delicious
meal from a menu of cuisines. Internet also offers the chance to read the President’s speeches and press releases or
to write a personal note to Clinton himself. A wealth of information lies waiting to be explored, but first students
must simply pick up their VAX password at the computer center on Main Street. They can also register for workshops
on how to use the program. Once connected to the system, VAX terminals can be accessed at the main computer
center, the labs in Chambers and the library, or from a dorm room via a modem.

Davidson has employed the services of VAX since 1987, but recent years have shown an ever-increasing rise in its popularity.
Electronic mail (E-mail) provides the opportunity for students and faculty to communicate through a computer terminal. Conversations can be carried
on simultaneously or messages may be left for people to read at a future time. Individuals may also send mail
to colleges around the globe free of charge in a matter of minutes. John Casey, Executive Director for Information Technology
for the college, sees E-mail as “a great opportunity because the future is going to have electronic communication as a
part of everybody’s lives. People short-change themselves if they don’t try it because it’s simple enough to use.” Since the
typical college student has a tight budget and many long-distance friendships, E-mail offers a chance to keep in touch without
spending a dime. Senior David White uses the VAX because “I can send mail to people at other campuses and
save a phone call." Other services, such as Internet, provide a myriad of sources for students to gain useful knowledge
or senseless trivia. In the dawn of a computer-oriented society, the electronically challenged must overcome their fears and explore the
vast resources available at their fingertips.

Student frustrated with Visual Arts Center restrictions
By Court McBryde

Since the opening of the Visual Arts Center, some students have been disappointed that they cannot use particular facilities of
the Center because they are not currently enrolled in an art class. However, the art department established these restrictions for
students, faculty, and the community in their use of the building at the start of the year. One feature of
the Visual Arts Center is the various galleries. The galleries are open to students, faculty, and the community Monday through
Friday from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. and Saturday and Sunday from 2-5 p.m. The Visual Arts Center closes at
5 p.m. However, students taking any type of art history or art studio class have 24-hour entry to the Visual
Arts. Their identification cards have been coded to give them access to the art facilities at any time they want
access, such as to studio, seminar, slide, or other available rooms. Sophomore Caroline Collie wishes to use the facilities of
the Visual Arts Center; but because she is not taking any type of art class, she is not permitted. Collie
has been “throwing,” or working with a pottery wheel.

Land a job with Career Services’ help
By Scott Windham

Carol Jordan has a new home. She and her crew at the Office of Career Services have moved—for good this
time—to the Julia Johnston House on Main Street. After years in the cramped basement of the Union, followed by a
semester in Jackson Court, Career Services is now permanently located at 431 North Main, the house with the white picket
fence, across from the infirmary. To accompany her new quarters, Carol has increased the number of staff members to seven,
up from four at the end of last year. In addition, Carol reports that she has expanded the range and
quality of services available at Career Services. The Office of Career Services publishes a calendar of graduate school- and career-related
events on campus and in the area, a newsletter entitled Pathways, and a weekly bulletin for minority students. In addition,
the office offers frequent resume workshops, mock interviews, interview workshops, and seminars on career planning and graduate study. The staff
at Career Services stresses that the office can provide services for all sectors of the student community: underclassmen, upperclassmen, and
graduates. Freshmen and sophomores might take advantage of internship and summer job opportunities.

WDAV NEEDS YOU
WDAV needs volunteers to answer phones or help with paperwork at the Classical 89.9 15th Anniversary Membership Drive.
October 22-November 1
6:00 a.m.-10:00 p.m.
Call Sylvia Caldwell 892-8900or use a self-evaluation test to explore what line of study or employment interests them. Upperclassmen might
enjoy the chance to spend a day “on the job” with a Davidson parent or alum, or interview with on-campus
recruiters. Staff members add that Careers is committed to helping the “smaller” populations at Davidson: minorities, international students, and the
disabled. An extensive library is one of Career Services’ most valuable resources, states Carol. She continues, “If you have a
particular interest, from instructing sailing in the Caymans to finding a graduate program in Chinese Literature, Ann Melton in the
Career Services Library can help you find information on it.” The library includes the following: graduate school and financial aid
information; printouts of alumni by occupation and city; information on travel and work abroad; interviewing and resume-writing guides; and service
and volunteer opportunities. The staff encourages you to stop by or call for information or an appointment at -2132.

For four years and has obtained a knowledgeable background in pottery. She thought with the new Visual Arts Center that
she would be able to continue “throwing.” Collie talked to Professor Cort Savage in the middle of August about using
the pottery equipment in the Visual Arts Center. Savage said that if she wanted to work on the pottery wheel
she would have to take an independent study. However, this independent study has two prerequisites: Sculpture I and Sculpture II.
Collie commented that she wanted to pursue her pottery “as an extra-curricular activity not as an academic. I want access,
not training.” Savage told Collie that if all the Visual Arts Center’s facilities were opened to everyone then there would
be no way to manage or control the facilities. Savage commented that a ceramics class is not offered through Davidson’s
Visual Arts Center. Collie expressed her frustration, “Throwing is something I love to do and Davidson has the facilities, but
they will not allow me to use the pottery wheel.” Savage explained that it is the same idea as a
science laboratory: labs are not open to any random student for experiments and neither are the art studios.

NEWS STAFF
News Editor: Mandy Curtis
Ass't News Editor: Court McBryde
News Writers: Rachel Dunifon, Sally Stone, Brett Marston, Mary McCrory, Alice Felmlee, Katherine Hash, Jay Jennings, Krisy Ford, Ashlyn Dannelly,
Martha Knight, Meg Wolff, Susan Warren, Wendy Lee, Carrie Blackburn, Mary Clare Jalonick, Christy Block, Shea Benton, Jenny Schroeter, Lexy
Devane, Ross Sloop, Towner Blackstock

Freshmen witness mock Honor Council trials
By Krisy Ford

For the past two weeks, freshmen, transfers, and faculty members have filed into the old gallery or multi-purpose room at
their designated times to witness a mock honor trial. Members of the Honor Council demonstrated this trial during two one-hour
Monday night sessions and one Sunday night session. This session was required for all freshmen, recommended to transfers, and optional
to faculty. The purpose of this session was not to go over the do's and don'ts of the Honor System.
Administrators explained all of the rules and violations of the System during orientation. The purpose of the mock trial was
to go over trial procedures. After orientation many freshmen were confused and scared because the whole system of an Honor
Council and student-conducted trials were new. “Many students had questions about the trial and the role of student members in
the whole process,” stated junior council member John Philpott. Although this council session was shortened, members attempted to give a
real-life scenario. The offense was plagiarism. A student obviously copied another student’s paper. The council tried to make the offense
obvious so that the viewers would not get caught up in details; thus allowing them to pay close attention to
procedure. The defendant testified first, and then the professor. Ward Davis presided over the trial and periodically would stand up
to explain something if it was not clear to everyone. Then the council went into executive session and came back
with a verdict. If the council arrived at a verdict of guilty, they returned to decide sanctions. After the trial,
each council member sat in on a group of students and answered any questions they posed. One major misconception people
seemed to have was the number of trials a council member would have to sit in on. Thirty members reside
on the Honor Council. In his last three years on the council, Ward Davis has only deliberated in four trials.
Many cases do not go to trial. If a defendant pleads not guilty, he can either go before Dean Terry
or the Honor Council. Even if the defendant pleads guilty, he can still opt to go before the Honor Council
for sanctions. Overall, the mock trials were short and concise, yet informative. “This year our procedure was a lot more
laid back than previous years,” said senior Ward Davis. “We tried to make the procedures enjoyable, but we also wanted
to make sure we addressed all questions or concerns.”
