THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1993 15

Cat Nips: Jason Byassee

On the eighth day, God created Basketball, and it was good

By Jason Byassee

Now, it's hard to notice, but if you pay attention you can pick up on it. It's easy to lose
it amidst all the November excitement over football, what with the birth of the Carolina Panthers and with the Tar
Heels kicking butt on the gridiron for the second straight season. Right now the sound is merely a hum, one
that’ll grow to a buzz by December, a low roar after the New Year and a veritable explosion come March.
It’s the sound of dribbling-- basketball, that is.

The NBA began regular season play this past weekend, and area college teams have just recently begun practicing. Now, football
has its place and all and I enjoy following it, but only as a way to pass the time till
roundball. Now I’m excited, the sport that God made is fixin’ to kick in.

The first indicator was when the weather began to grow cold as fall arrived. When I was a kid that
meant it was time to get out and practice the jumpshot, for hoops was on its way. It didn’t matter
that it got dark early; we’d find a streetlight and play until forever. My dad wasn’t about to call us
in, since he was out there with us. You see, basketball has this unifying aspect to it, as exemplified by
my family. A holiday just wasn’t celebrated properly if it didn’t involve several hours of hoops between me and my
dad and my brothers. We all played the same way: we shot too much, talked too much junk and thought
we were better players than we were. The family grudge matches would last for hours, and they were great.

We were fans, too. During the season when Duke or Carolina were on television the Byassee family living room would
be filled with friends, popcorn and lots of yelling. You see, our family consisted of one Carolina grad, one former
Duke employee and three kids that wavered in loyalty between the two shades of blue. I personally ended up a
Blue Devil fan, which of course meant I enjoyed watching Carolina-Duke games more often than not. And as soon as
halftime hit we were off, using those precious twenty minutes to play ball and dissect the first half.

For our family, basketball was one of those crucial things that glues individuals together. My dad and I could have
a huge fight, and then get over it by beating each other up on the basketball court. An hour later
we’d emerge, laughing, with father-son relationship healed and even strengthened. Hoops provided a means of measuring growth as well. I
remember when I first beat my dad in one-on-one, when my younger brother learned how to score on me without
my letting him, and when the youngest could stick a jumpshot from further than ten feet away. As we grew
older, the level ofBasketball intensified, of course. A bunch of buddies and I got a recreation team together and, as
upper-middle-class sons of WASPs, Chapel Hill kids went and signed up to play in what was essentially an urban, ghetto
basketball league in downtown Durham. My dad, ever faithful, paced the sidelines as our head coach, and my friends and
I scratched and clawed to pull out a handful of victories in our four years of play.

What strikes me about that league is one of the most impressive things about basketball: its universal appeal. I don’t
know when else I would have had real contact with African-Americans, other than on the basketball court. Even now, if
we’re honest, most of us do not take the time to build friendships with people of other races. But after
two hours of all-out warfare on the court, you walk away with real respect for the guy that played opposite
you, no matter what color his face is. In a society in which churches, institutions, and even schools are still
very segregated, basketball brings folks together.

Then there were the times when basketball helped me relate to folks in entirely different cultures. One summer I spent
a few weeks in Guatemala, and once found an inner-city basketball game there. I talked a little Spanish smack with
the locals, knocked down a few jumpers, and basically had my ego pampered, since compared to Guatemalan school kids I
look like Larry Johnson. Another bridge provided by the game.

I also spent the past few summers in Boston, and discovered that even Yankees play basketball. They foul too much
and talk even more than I do, but they still play. Now that’s cross-cultural.

See Jason continued on page 16

*Based on the combined Suggested Retail Prices (SRP) of the products in The Campus. An integrated package from Apple. ©1993
Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved.

You're supposed to get a lot out of college yet Macintosh LC 475 4/80, Apple Color Plus 14" Display, Apple
Keyboard II, and mouse. Select a Macintosh or PowerBook computer, and you'll also receive seven software programs. It’s all included
in one low price. And the software alone has a combined SRP value of $596. It was designed to give
you the kinds of programs you need most. Programs to organize your time and money. And some programs just for
fun. So, why buy a computer? It does more. It costs less. It's that simple.

Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal. Now, when you buy any Macintosh Quadra 610 8/160, Apple Color Plus 14" Display,
Apple Keyboard II, and mouse, or Apple PowerBook Duo 230 4/80 (with Macintosh External Floppy Disk Drive and PowerBook Duo
Floppy Adapter not shown), you will receive these same software programs in the original product packaging.

For more information, visit your Apple Campus Reseller today! For further information visit Computer Services Center. Contact Kim Kenyon at
x2432.

Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, and PowerBook are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.
