THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1993; 15

August in Italy: Men's basketball challenges the best of Europe

By Ed White

The Davidson men’s basketball team got an early start to the 1993-1994 season when they took a trip to Italy during August. The team played seven games against some of Europe’s best professional teams.

Although the team finished the tour with a record of 1-6, the coaches felt that the trip was a success. The European teams were of a higher caliber than most of the teams on this season's schedule, so the trip gave the team some experience that will be beneficial once their season starts.

Most of the team returned to Davidson on August 4, for a week of practice. NCAA rules prohibited freshmen from going on this trip, so freshmen Mark Donnelly and Ken May were not allowed to participate. The team left for Milan, Italy on August 12. Janko Narat and Frantisek Babka, who were both at home in Europe for the summer, met the team in Italy. The trip went at a frantic pace. For ten days, the team traveled by bus from the Adriatic Coast to the Italian Alps.

The first game of the tour was played in Morrovalle against the Italian team Fabriano. The Wildcats lost the game by a score of 93-76. Other teams they played included some former NBA players. Against Reggio Emilia, Davidson played against ex-Houston Rocket Mike Mitchell and ex-Seattle Supersonic Tony Brown. The Cats fell to Reggio Emilia by a score of 94-85, but sophomore Chris Alpert played superbly with 19 points. The highlight of the trip was Davidson’s 87-86 win over Aris, the second-ranked professional team in Greece. Narat scored with two seconds left to seal the Wildcats’ victory.

The trip was also a great cultural experience for the team. All the games were played at night, so the team had most days for sightseeing. Many days, however, included long bus rides. While traveling, the team was able to take in the scenery of central and northern Italy. The team spent four days in Bormio in the Italian Alps. Many players enjoyed this city and its scenery.

Jason Zimmerman and Ron Horton, two of Davidson’s veterans, made the trip but did not play due to injuries.

Zimmerman had a stress fracture and Horton is undergoing rehabilitation for a knee injury. Although these two team leaders could not play, Coach McKillop felt that the trip was a fantastic experience for the entire team. He said the trip was not only a good opportunity by playing against top-rated professional teams, but that it was a good cultural experience.

McKillop added that, “the trip was especially valuable for players like Mark McGuire, Quinn Harwood, and Frantisek Babka, all of whom had limited playing time last year but might have key roles this season.”

This year the team will have a familiar face added to its coaching staff. Recent graduate Matt Matheny, a former football and basketball player, will replace Coach Simonds. Simonds returned to St. Joseph’s in Maine where he had coached previously. Coach Shurina will move into Simonds’ position on the staff and Matheny will take over at Shurina’s old position.

Now that classes have started, the team continues to prepare for this year’s season. The team started physical conditioning practices this past Monday. Following NCAA regulations, their first day of formal practice will be November 1. The team opens the season on November 23.

---

Join others with an urge to explore. Come to Austin Seminary's Fall PROSPECTUS Weekend October 1-3, 1993.

Continue the journey of faith.

Get to know the beauty, culture, and friendliness of Austin and Austin Seminary. If your personal road map calls for exploring entry into a church vocation—continue your journey with us.

We offer Master of Arts and Master of Divinity degrees.

Come journey with us. Contact Eleanor C. Cherryholmes, Director of Vocations and Admissions

AUSTIN PRESBYTERIAN THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY 100 E. 27th Street, Austin, TX 78705-5797; 512-472-6736, 800-777-6127

---

First 175 students

1993 HOME OPENER

SEPTEMBER 18 DAVIDSON vs. RHODES

receive Limited Edition “Be The Hammer” T-Shirts

Photo by Mark McGuire

The basketball team enjoys the view of the Italian Alps during their August European tour.

---

RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING CORPS

PREREQUISITE: ADRENALINE

Drive. Intensity. Those aren't words you're likely to see in many course requirements. Then again, Army ROTC is unlike any other elective. It's hands-on excitement.

ROTC will challenge you mentally and physically through intense leadership training. Training that builds character, self-confidence and decision-making skills.

Again, words other courses seldom use. But they're the credits you need to succeed in life. ROTC is open to freshmen and sophomores without obligation and requires about 4 hours per week. Register this term for Army ROTC.

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE.

MIL 101 - The U.S. Army Today MIL 201 - Leadership Issues and Applications