12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1993

Russ Warren brings unique new exhibit to the VAC
By Josh Larned

It’s here to stay. Davidson’s new Visual Arts Center has rapidly proven itself an essential focal point for expression within
the community. Davidson Professor Russ Warren’s current exhibit, now on display at the V.A.C. gallery, clearly demonstrates the tremendous value
of our quaint new edifice. Warren’s display (taken from a broad spectrum of his career) is intense—it provokes thought without
sacrificing an initial optical appeal. This reaction is largely due to his unique conglomeration of Naive Folk Art, abstract techniques,
and a vibrant palette. This eclectic style, coupled with a narrative (almost archetypal) choice of subject and a typically Southwestern
rural setting, results in creating what critic Richard Shiff describes as, “forms which the artist feels, as much as sees,
through the process of creating them by hand.”

Indeed, Russ Warren’s paintings do convey deep emotional sentiments. “Don’t Be Lazy,” which depicts primitively abstracted persons farming the land,
presents a clear message about the importance of community and man’s perpetually evolving coexistence with his natural surroundings. “Images From
Heaven and Hell,” explores man’s inner struggle to understand events after death. Critiques aside, probably the best thing about this
exhibit is that it is something for everyone to appreciate. To quote the man himself, “Aesthetically, there’s enough caffeine in
this show to wake people up!” You need not be a scholarly authority on art or a Sotheby’s appraiser to
enjoy this one. Go check it out.

Photo by Casey Rogers

Flip Side

Nothing intoxicating about the Gin Blossoms' "Experience"

With the hit single “Hey Jealousy,” the Arizona rock group Gin Blossoms have grabbed a foothold in the fickle American
airways. And whether or not they want to admit it, they have groups like the Spin Doctors and 10,000 Maniacs
to thank for their success. Their major label debut album, New Miserable Experience, came out a year ago with almost
no promotion and modest sales. As that album floundered, the Spin Doctors and other addictive guitar pop groups began to
sell like mad. In this environment, A & M records decided that the Gin Blossoms deserved a fighting chance. New
Miserable Experience got, in the record company’s words, a “New Miserable Cover” to replace the already-tacky original one, and the
radio-friendly “Hey Jealousy” was released with an MTV-ready video. Thus the Gin Blossoms got their big chance and it was
time for American listeners to pass judgment.

To find out how this story ends, just listen to any pop or rock station this week for about 30
minutes. By then you will have certainly heard “Hey Jealousy” and its sing-along chorus “Tomorrow we could drive around this
town and let the cops chase us around...”

People who buy New Miserable Experience based on the sound of “Hey Jealousy” probably won’t be too disappointed. Unfortunately, New
Miserable Experience relies upon, and rarely breaks free of, the song’s medium tempo, two-guitar, watered-down R.E.M. approach that has catapulted
them to star status. Two songs manage to break the mold. The first, “Cajun Song,” is self-explanatory: a guest accordion
player injects some soulful cajun solos that keep the song exciting. The other oddity is “Cheatin,’” a pop-country ditty that
would do well between Garth and Wynonna on the Country station. It even has one of those classic country lines:
“You can’t call it cheatin’, ‘cause she reminded me of you.” Cute, if you’re not the girlfriend.

Beyond that, the Gin Blossoms debut is a catchy but redundant and cliched string of angst-ridden guitar rock songs. The
Spin Doctors without a groove, if you will. “The lost horizons I can see are filled with bars and factories,
and in them all we fight to stay awake.” Indeed.

Calendar

ON THE SCENE

More look to piercing

Piercing continued from page 11

It’s important to make sure that the procedure is done by a professional. Propst herself works at a Charlotte clothing
store.called Superior Feet. In the article, she says that tongues and nipples are the most difficult areas to pierce. With
the tongue, it is important to be careful to avoid poking the needle through a vein or the web of
the tongue. This is all a few steps away from anything I imagined in the sixth grade. At the time,
I felt completely elated at the idea that I could put jewelry through my ear. In a country where a
large majority of women have their ears pierced, I wasn’t doing anything particularly special or uncommon. A lot of people
react strongly to piercing body parts other than the ears, as if somehow the ears are okay but other parts
aren’t. It is important to remember, however, that there is no difference between having one’s ears pierced and having any
other part pierced. It is all part of the body, whether it is the ear or the navel. Because having
pierced ears is a common tradition in American society, we think nothing of it. It is a cultural phenomenon. Having
one’s body pierced shouldn’t be a curiosity, it is a personal choice.

BIKE SALE
October 6, 1993
Bikes that have been picked up by the campus police and stored over the last six months will be sold
on a sealed bid basis. All sales will be final. Bids can be placed from 9:00 am-4:00 pm at the
DCPD. Compiled by Rachel Newcomb

MOVIES/THEATER/DANCE
Pump Boys and Dinettes.
Dangerous Liaisons. Wednesday, Sep. 22 at 9:30 p.m. Fri, Sep. 24 at 8:00 p.m. 900 Room. Sponsored by Vance Theatrical
Organization.
Sep. 24-26 at Pease Auditorium CPCC. Call 545-3581 for more info.
Theatre Kaitaisha. An avant-garde theater troupe from Tokyo, presented by Innovative Theatre. Sep. 19-20. Park Elevator Club, Charlotte. Call 372-7469.
42nd Street. Touring production of the Broadway musical. Sep. 21-26. 8 p.m. Belk Theater, North Carolina Blumenthal Performing Arts Center.
Call 522-6500 to charge by phone.

MISCELLANEOUS/SPEAKERS/MEETINGS
Habitat for Humanity. Mon, Sep. 20. 7:00 p.m. Big Screen Room.
The Rev. Dr. Dan Via Staley Lecturer. “What can we know and how can we know about the historical Jesus?”
Mon, Sep. 20. 900 Room. 7:30 p.m.
Coffeehouse. Tues, Sep. 21. 900 Room. 8:30 a.m. - 11:00 a.m.
Discussion with Reverend Margaret Via. Meeting with women informally in a group setting to discuss opportunities for ministry. Tues, Sep.
21. 3:00 p.m. Big Screen Room.
21 Year Olds Night. 10:30 p.m. 900 Room.
UNIV. OF GLASGOW, SCOTLAND. Information meeting with representative from Glasgow University, Scotland. 2:30 p.m. Thurs, Sep. 23. Morrison Room.
FAC for Senior Class. Senior Apartments. Fri, 9/24/93. Sponsored by SGA and Residence Life.
Women’s Forum for Patterson Court. Three 20-minute skits introducing freshmen to Connor, Rusk & Warner Hall. 4:30 p.m. Saturday, Sept.
25. Love Auditorium.
Vesper Service. Sun, Sep. 26. 10:00 p.m. 900 Room.

MUSEUMS/EXHIBITS/ART
The Nature Museum. Charlotte. Hands-on exhibits, live animals, nature trail & puppet theater. Call 337-2660 for more info.
Reedy Creek Environmental Center. Reedy Creek Park, Charlotte. Hands-on exhibits, one-mile nature trail, naturalist lab. Environmental programs and Saturday science
workshops, guided nature walks. Call 598-8857 for more details.
23 Studio. Charlotte. 3205 N. Davidson St. “Only in the Walk Thru Areas,” new works by Frank Haas, Bob Robertson,
Mike the Tryke and Lepton Neutrino; plus “Icons of the Modern World,” works by Jerry Kirk, through Sep. 29. Call
347-0723 for more info.
Davidson College Art Galleries. Visual Arts Center. Works by studio art professors Herb Jackson, Cort Savage and Russ Warren, through
Oct. 31. Call 892-2185 for more details.
UNC Charlotte Galleries. Cone Center Gallery, Cone University Center; “Energies, Auras, Elements,” black and white photography by Joan May, plus
works in clay by Geri Camarda. Call 547-2521 for more.

MUSIC
They Might Be Giants. Appearing at the Pterodactyl Club, Mon. Sep. 20. Charlotte. This is a quirky, slightly nerdy innovative
band that I used to like in high school. I bet it would be a fun show to go to.
Aerosmith. Appearing with 4 Non Blondes. 8 p.m. Sept. 24. Charlotte Coliseum. Call 522-6500 to charge by phone.
Mighty Rhythm Kings. At the Double Door Inn. Charlotte. Mon, Sep. 20.
