4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1993

The Anniversary

Hugo's 87mph winds and torrential rain destroyed cars, trees, and study plans

By Towner Blackstock

September 20, 1989, came like any other Wednesday. The Davidsonian came out on Wednesdays back then, so students read articles
about the new college plan and the possibility of a black fraternity on campus. Everything seemed perfectly normal. It was
the last Davidsonian they would see until three weeks later.

At five in the morning on Friday, September 22, the chaos of Hurricane Hugo swept through Charlotte, decimating everything in
its path. Winds reportedly reached 87 miles per hour. It was like a freight train, those who remember say, except
it was right outside your window. Davidson students awoke to driving rains and literally hundreds of downed trees and branches.
231 out of a total of 2000 trees on the campus suffered damage or fell. Many had stood for over
100 years and could never be replaced, especially at an estimated value of $2000 a tree.

With electricity out, the college called off classes that Friday. Students emerged from their dorms to survey the damage. Watts
dorm lost a part of its roof, while Johnston Gym and the three sophomore apartments suffered roof leakage. A tree
also hit Rusk House. Another took off roofing shingles and damaged a chimney at the President’s House. Some students had
cars crushed, like one senior whose Honda suffered $3000 of damage. For the most part, however, Davidson got off easy.
Everywhere the trees fell in just the right direction, like the huge oak across the President’s House lawn, or the
several trees outside the large Commons windows.

In the midst of disaster, the entire community showed a remarkable sense of altruism. As President Kuykendall summarized in a
letter printed in the Davidsonian, students and staff “took the weekend’s adversity as an opportunity for service rather than an
occasion for dissatisfaction or despair.” PiKA members cleaned up Main Street residents’ backyards, while SAEs served refreshments to the Duke
Power workers. Everywhere students and college employees threw in a helping hand. Many of these Duke Power employees had come
from other states, even as far as Ohio. Thanks to their dedicated work, electricity was restored quickly. In Charlotte, some
neighborhoods waited weeks for theirs to come back on.

The Commons opened up with free meals for all students and workers. Electricity there returned on Saturday, so spoilage took
only $500 worth of food. Employees worked overtime all weekend to handle the crowds. Today, one can hardly imagine the
extent of destruction on the campus. Even when the class of ‘94 came as prospectives two weeks later, crews continued
to work removing massive tree trunks. Charlotte looked like someone had dropped a small atom bomb, with piles of wood
stacked as tall as a person all along the sidewalks. Several interstate signs were missing, including the northbound Davidson exit
sign. Not surprisingly, someone had dragged it to Akers Dorm where it remained for a week.

Even now we continue to live with the legacy of Hugo. Walk through the old quadrangle between Oak and Elm
Row, just in front of Cunningham Fine Arts building. Notice that not one of the trees has a top anymore.
Or take a walk through the woods around campus and notice the sheer number of downed trees. You can barely
get through the woods because of all the rotting tree trunks.

Perhaps one of the most interesting legacies of Hugo involved the new Visual Arts Building. The Art Department had planned
to reveal the preliminary Graham Gund Architects' design at a luncheon that Friday, but for obvious reasons, the event was
canceled and rescheduled for November 1, 1989. Funny enough, the design looks very little like what our new building does.

Information from this article came from the October 11 and November 8, 1989 issues of the Davidsonian as well as
recollections of various Davidson students and staff.

Athletic Department will not extend Baker hours before use increases

Baker continued from page 1

its hours do not match students’ schedules. Rudell commented that students become frustrated when facilities such as the weight room
and pool are shut down because work-study students, upon which Baker heavily depends, do not show up for work. Athletic
Director Terry Holland contended that it is not feasible to extend hours of operation because of staff size constraints and
budget concerns. Dean of Students Will Terry explained that the

Lower totals didn't discourage ROTC blood drive volunteers or organizers

Blood continued from page 11. Both Hawkins and McKinney agreed that the spring drive should have a better donor turnout
because there will be more notice. Therefore, publicity will begin earlier and there will be more time to recruit donors.
Compared to last year’s drive goal, this year’s goal was less. However, the drive came closer to the goal number
this year. Last year’s goal was higher and there were significantly more donors. This fall, ROTC members were not allowed
to volunteer to help the Red Cross with the blood drive. The Red Cross has a new policy that involves
training in order to be a volunteer. There was not enough time for training, so Red Cross brought their own
volunteers. Although McKinney commented that the Red Cross was great. Senior Jennifer Whittington donated blood for the first time and
she remarked that she gave blood because, “somebody else might need it more than I do.” Four-time freshman donor Zac
Lacey said he is a donor because, “my sister was in a car accident and had to have a transfusion.
I think it is an important thing all people should do.” In addition to the Blood Drive, ROTC sponsored the
Davidson Lions Club. They asked many people, “Want to donate your eyes?” urging students to become eye and organ donors.

Crime Report
On September 26 at 6:10 p.m., a three-wheel “EZ-GO” golf cart belonging to the Sports Medicine Department was reported to
the police as stolen. A work-study employee for Sports Medicine reported the theft; no suspects were found. Valued at about
$600, the golf cart had been left unlocked and was last seen behind Baker at 5:30 p.m. The next day,
the cart was found undamaged in the woods behind Baker.

The athletic budget has been frozen at 9.2% of the total college budget. Assistant Athletic Director Ron Morrow noted that
during January, February, and March of 1993, Baker was open until midnight on weekends. For those months, an average of
2.4, 1.48, and 2.38 people, respectively, entered Baker between the hours of 10-midnight. Currently, Baker closes at 10 each night.
Rudell commented that the 8-10 timeslot is very popular for meetings and other campus activities; therefore, the building should be
opened later when students would be able to utilize the facilities. Holland remarked that for Baker to be opened extra
hours, resources would have to be procured from areas outside of the athletic budget. He argued that it would not
make sense to take money away from other areas if there is not a demonstrated need for Baker to be
open later. Both Morrow and Holland stressed that students are their number one priority. “This building is far more available
to students than any other multi-purpose building in the country,” declared Holland. If a need to keep Baker open later
than 10 p.m. can be demonstrated, then administrators will reallocate funds to meet students’ demands. It was also agreed that
there should be some means for students to register complaints, such as through a suggestion or comment box. The student
group vows to continue to lobby for alternative late-night athletic activities. Following the meeting, Srinivasan expressed that both sides realized
that they have to work together to get student involvement. Rudell said that it was good to focus on students.

Court forum discusses possible changes
Court continued from page 1
As the panelists drew to a close, questions from the audience were addressed. According to many of the students that
were present, they were well informed about the changes that need to be made in order for Patterson Court to
attain a better image. The two administrators that were in attendance were the Assistant Director of the Union and Patterson
Court Adviser Kurt Holmes. No faculty members were present. Julie Petty said, “This is frustrating because faculty members tend to
be the most critical of Patterson Court.” The forum was another way to allow those members of the Davidson College
community to see the progress and changes that both have been made and need to be made on Patterson Court.
The newly formed Patterson Court Council has had a large impact on the college over the last six months. The
major changes that have occurred have been the alcohol issue and the flexibility in the social activities on the court.
The forum was thought to be a positive as well as successful experience for those who were involved. “The majority
of those who attended had a willingness to change things on the court and at the same time understand the
efforts of the Patterson Court Council,” said Julie Petty. The forum is considered to be an optimistic outlook on the
future of Patterson Court. As Kurt Holmes stated, “Forums cause very little change but tend to raise awareness.”

The Davidsonian
Write for it. Call Mandy at 6252.
The coolest source for news on the Davidson campus.
