ARTS MONDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1993

Hodson Hall showcases three student composers

On Monday, December 6, three musically-inclined Davidson students got a chance to show off their compositional prowess before a mostly student audience in Hodson Hall. The hour-long recital featured works by senior Garnett Smith and juniors Linn Allison and Steve Krause; also on display were performances by many Davidson students and professors.

Garnett Smith’s two pieces opened the concert. With the oboe and piano piece “Elegy,” Smith sought, in his own words, “...to explore the registral extremities of both instruments as well as harmonies that grew away from and challenged functional tonality.” The result was a sparse arrangement that pushed the gentle oboe-playing of senior Jennifer Guise to the fore. Surprises came frequently in both the playing of Guise and pianist Cynthia Lawing, with frequent switches from calm to discord and back again. The second piece, entitled “Paradise,” was notable for its beautiful lyrics, sung by music professor Prior.

The works of Linn Allison—all solo instrumentals—followed Smith’s two pieces. The first, “Study for Trumpet,” was performed contemplatively by Music Department head William Lawing, who placed a mute on his trumpet at the beginning and end of the piece to create the impression of gentle, distant playing. “Echoes of Solitude,” played on piano by Richard Prior, and “The Sound of Trees,” played on violin by Jane Snyder, were much like “Study for Trumpet” in their attitude. All three were ethereal and slow, creating an atmosphere instead of telling a story. Allison’s compositions simultaneously called to mind early 20th-century composer Arnold Schoenberg and new age goddess Enya. The music was both experimental and elegant.

The final Davidson student to be featured, Steve Krause, took an approach to both his writing and performance that was distant from the “classical” styles of Smith and Allison. For starters, he was an important performer, playing piano and singing. He also commanded a larger ensemble, with sophomores Karl Ruch and Jonathan Pieslak playing drums and bass, respectively, and a choir that included solo singing by sophomore Beth Lindsay. Krause’s pieces had a jazz flavor, with bits of blues, rock, gospel, and opera thrown into the mix. His last song, “Barak’s Blues” was taken from his opera “Deborah.” Set against a spunky blues/gospel backdrop, Krause hollered, “Lord, I’m going to listen to you, just take away my anxious blues.” In an evening brimming with strong, consistent pieces by all three young composers, “Barak’s Blues” provided a perfect finale.

Still Whistlin' Dixie
George Ducas: a star on the rise
By Geoff Graham

Four hundred miles away, over rivers, pastures, and the Great Smoky Mountains, lies Nashville, Tennessee—the home of country music. Last weekend, through rain and darkness, I made the trek. I didn’t go to see Music Row or even the Grand Ole Opry, though we drove by. And I didn’t go to party at Vanderbilt, for we do it quite well enough here in Davidson. I was looking for Amie’s, a tiny hole-in-the-wall beer hall, to sit back, put our feet up, and listen to some good ol’ country music.

Now, I know Charlotte lies just down the road. And yes, even Cornelius is home to a few bars. But I was looking for Amie’s in particular. Last year, Caleb Clarke, a student at Vanderbilt, brought home a demo tape he insisted I hear. It was George Ducas, he said, the writer who gave Radney Foster his first single, “Just Call Me Lonesome.” Now, I’d been to the bars and I’d heard the hopefuls play. I knew (or had a vague notion, at least) of what constituted an exceptional performer. I myself, from time to time, entertained thoughts of someday breaking into the music industry. Those thoughts turned to dreams the day I heard that demo.

George seemed to me already a polished artist, a young Willie Nelson of sorts (in degree more than kind). He had his own sound and style. It was like a Delta Blues rhythm fused with country and brought out back on the porch. I couldn’t help but grin as I listened. And I don’t mean anything was humorous. I grinned from sheer delight and maybe a little awe. Here was a man whose words, voice, and music matched so perfectly he achieved a kind of unity of effect, or even a purity of...

See Ducas on page 13

Picture Perfect

The Union Gallery currently features the artwork of Elynn Bernstein. The show, entitled "The World in Between," exhibits her unusual use of ceramics and multilayered oil paints. Bernstein is a senior art major whose work has been on display for the last two weeks. This painting is called "The Party that Never Happened." Photo by Casey Rogers

Drinking small amounts of the blues on a musical journey through the genre
By Jacob Abraham

Last Monday night, the 900 Room in the Union underwent a geographical transformation. Tables and chairs were set up throughout the room, beer ran freely from the bar in the...Corner, and 40 or 50 Davidson students assembled for a medical lesson unlike any other. A shortish, grizzled black man, with a speckled gray beard and a careworn smile, took a seat on stage and nestled his guitar (affectionately named Geraldine) in his lap. For the next two hours, the self-proclaimed “Blues Doctor” walked his audience across the country, demonstrating his mastery of blues styles birthed in New York, New Orleans, and Texas, while sharing his ripe wit and stories culled from sixty years of living the blues.

Drink Small has been playing guitar and performing for audiences all his life. A native of rural South Carolina, he grew up singing in church choirs and playing weekend parties. Drawing on the blues masters, from Lightnin’ Hopkins to B.B. King, he incorporated gospel and rhythm and blues elements into his shows. Drink made a name for himself with a popular gospel group of the fifties, and he earned the distinction of top gospel guitarist from Metronome magazine in 1959. Since then, his blues band has toured in colleges throughout the South and played major shows including the New Orleans Jazz Festival and the Smithsonian American Folk Festival in Washington, D.C.

Yet, fame and age have only sharpened Drink’s edge. Although he seemed a little out of his element in the mellow atmosphere of the 900 Room, he made the most out of his captive audience, and the absence of his band only highlighted his entertaining charm and the magic of his guitar playing. Sharing stories and small talk in between songs, his hands never stopped strumming and picking. Drink revealed his fondness for passing on his knowledge of the blues by explaining the sundry styles he employed, from ragtime to finger-picking Piedmont blues to the sweet slide guitar of Delta blues. It was obvious that Drink was there to have a good time, improvising lyrics and cracking jokes even during the songs.

“I got a natural Ph.D.,” Drink quipped. “Poor, harassed, and depressed.” Perhaps the beauty of the blues is its ability to rise above life’s hardships through the healing of the music, and Drink’s warm sense of humor exemplified the passion underlying his blues. With a “Jesus child please” and a deep chuckle, the Blues Doctor left everyone in the house “feelin’ good.”

---

Screen Scene

Addams Values: sunny, silly, and all-around stupid

We all know that it is sometimes better to leave well enough alone. As a matter of fact, one of my favorite mottos is, “if it ain’t broken, don’t fix it.” Unfortunately, Hollywood seems to ignore this advice nine times out of ten by turning out horrible sequels to our favorite films (does Beverly Hills Cop II ring a bell here?).

Such is the case with the sequel to The Addams Family, creatively entitled Addams Family Values. Yes, ’tis true the original was stupid, silly, and without a plot, but by golly, I thought that it was pretty funny. The same cannot be said for the sequel, which at best is a rip-off of a really bad “Simpsons” episode and at worst, well, words don’t begin to describe. The exorbitant amount that Paramount Pictures paid to reunite the cast and crew (rumor has it that it was around $50 million) was definitely a waste of money; the talent of the actors was wasted as well, which really is a shame considering the experience and ability of the cast. Those are the breaks, I guess.

Like the last time around, the story centers around the likable Uncle Fester (Christopher Lloyd). Fester is madly in love with the nanny (Joan Cusack) hired to take care of the newest addition to the family, Pubert. What Fester doesn’t know is that his would-be girlfriend has a habit of marrying wealthy men who mysteriously die on their wedding night. What follows is the same old tired storyline where Fester has family, Fester loses family, Fester regains family. In fact, I venture to say his story is so old that when God said, “Let there be light,” he flicked the switch and found the Addams Family Values script laying there.

I won’t bore y’all to death with describing in detail how bad the film is, but suffice it to say that not even Christina Ricci (Wednesday Addams), who stole the show in the first picture, could resuscitate this lifeless flick. However, even a dying dog has his day and the minute that this one had was all thanks to Anjelica Huston (Morticia). Nevertheless, one minute of good doesn’t make up for the other hundred of bad, and this holiday season I’d suggest avoiding this stinker like the plague. Let’s hope that the other soon-to-come sequels don’t go the way of Addams Family Values (Wayne’s World II and Sister Act II, for example). If so, my rifle is still warm from putting this lame horse out of its misery and rest assured that I won’t hesitate to do the same to any others that may come along. Merry Christmas!