6 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1993

The Week in Washington: High noon time: Gore vs. Perot
By Brett Marston

Load up your six-shooter, Mr. PEE-row, ‘cause it’s time for the showdown. On a visit to New York last week,
President Clinton announced Vice President Gore’s challenge to Ross Perot to debate NAFTA on Larry King Live in two weeks,
days before the crucial House vote which will determine the fate of the accord.

“The Vice President has challenged [Perot] to a debate on Larry King,” Clinton announced to reporters in New York, according
to the New York Times. “Let’s see if he takes it.” Perot immediately accepted and countered with an offer to
debate on three separate occasions. The Clinton administration replied by insisting on just one meeting in Larry King’s television studio.

With just a few days to go before the House vote on Nov. 17th, NAFTA’s proponents look worried. The House
Majority Whip David E. Bonoir (D-Mich.), has gathered nearly enough votes to defeat the agreement, and the President needs 50
new votes for the agreement if it is going to pass.

Where does Ross Perot fit in? First of all, it is this paranoiac billionaire with a history of messianic fantasies
who has spearheaded a major offensive against the accord in rallies and meetings across the country and with his recent
book, Save Your Job, Save Our Country: Why NAFTA Must Be Stopped—Now!, co-authored with Pat Choate. The essence of Perot’s
argument against NAFTA is contained in the following excerpt, printed in the Congressional Quarterly: “Buried in the fine print [of
the agreement] are provisions that will give away American jobs and radically reduce the sovereignty of the United States.” Critics,
most notably U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor, whose office recently published a detailed refutation of Perot’s arguments, have charged Perot
with falsifying figures in order to bolster his claims.

Secondly, in the 1992 presidential elections, Perot received as much as one-third of the votes in some districts, and most
of his followers still support him. Many lawmakers who face re-election next year may wish to be cautious about alienating
this large block of voters, especially in light of recent election results in some states, where voters have shown disapproval
of incumbents and the Democratic Party. Much of Perot’s support in the presidential race came from areas which support NAFTA,
however, and some people in Perot’s organization favor the agreement.

Why, then, the debate? Some commentators claim that the Administration’s goal for the proposed debate is to discredit Perot, who,
when recently asked a question about his specific plans to reduce government spending, complained that he “would have brought his
note cards” if he had known about that question. Noting Perot’s skill at speaking in emotional phrases tailored to the
size of a sound-bite, however, many commentators fear that Vice President Gore will be no match for Perot. “The very
first danger is a live audience,” wrote William F. Buckley in his syndicated column this weekend, “for the simple reason
that Gore is not funny, and he is not a polemical swordsman whose slashes and whirls can bring down the
house.”

One thing is certain, however. Regardless of the outcome of this latest round in our talk-show democracy, the big winners
of the debate will be neither Gore nor Perot, but Larry King, who can expect ratings that are even higher
than usual, and the advertisers, whose commercials will reach an even larger audience. The unwritten headline on the day after
the shootout will be: NAFTA debate scathing, sales of Aquafresh up by one third.

Additional Sources: The New Republic and the Charlotte Observer.

Puerto Rican referendum to determine island's future
By Jay Jennings

Puerto Ricans all over the world are looking to November 14, because there will be a plebiscite, or referendum, to
decide the fate of the country. The people will decide whether they want Puerto Rico to become a state, an
independent country, or remain a Free State Association. Jorge Pardo, the only Davidson student who still lives in Puerto Rico,
hopes that the referendum will keep things the same. He feels that Puerto Rico will “lose its identity” if it
becomes a state. Puerto Rico would lose its unique status of Free State Association. Some fear that it would lose
not only its identity, but also Spanish as its official language. When other states, such as Louisiana, Oklahoma, Arizona, and
New Mexico, joined the United States, they were forced to adopt English as their official language. Puerto Ricans want desperately
to retain their culture and the Spanish language and retain the “best of both worlds” in between independence and statehood.

The Dean Rusk Program

Serbian hold on Kosovo
By Peter Varney

Six hundred and four years ago, on the battlefield of Kosovo Polje, the Serbian army was vanquished by the Turks,
putting an end to the medieval Serbian Empire. Six centuries later in June 1989, before a crowd of about one
million Serbs, President Slobodan Milosevic announced that the revered soil had returned to its rightful owners. Despite official Serbian control,
the province of Kosovo, with its 90% majority of ethnic Albanians, still remains a potential hot spot in a region
riddled with violence and bloodshed.

After the 1389 war, Kosovo came under the control of the Ottoman Empire. Over the next 500 years, most Serbs
left Kosovo, moving north. Replacing the departing Serbs, a large number of Albanians settled in the area, converting to Islam.
In the 1912-1913 Balkan Wars, Serbia once again gained control of Kosovo, with its largely Albanian population. A number of
these Albanians had fled to Turkey by the 1940s. After the Second World War, Kosovo entered the Yugoslav Federation as
a province of the Socialist Republic of Serbia. In 1974, a new Yugoslav Constitution gave new rights to Kosovo, making
it an autonomous part of the Serbian Republic. As a result, the Albanian population once again expanded, with Serbs and
Montenegrins exiting the region. The election of Milosevic in 1987 began to spell trouble forthe Kosovo Milosevic’s Bevo Cats PALI?
stressed the tightening of Serbia’s hold on the province. By 1989, the Serbian National Assembly had passed constitutional amendments revoking
Kosovo’s autonomy. A year later, in July 1990, the Serbian government suspended Kosovo’s parliament and imposed direct rule through the
police force. The Albanian institutions were forced underground but remained active. The parliament declared independence from Serbia in October 1991
and elected a president, Dr. Ibrahim Rugova, in secret elections in May 1992. Rugova maintains a policy of nonviolence toward
the Serbs, hoping to gain support from the United States and Europe. He calls for the creation of an independent
neutral state in Kosovo, which eventually could merge with Albania. Although Kosovo’s ethnic Albanian population of 2 million outnumbers its
Serbian population 9 to 1, the Serbs outgun the Kosovars “ten to zero.” As a result, the Milosevic government participates
in a subtle form of “ethnic cleansing,” using a combination of economic coercion and terrorism to force Albanians out of
the region. Since 1989, more than 130,000 Kosovars have been dismissed from jobs in government, media, schools, and hospitals. Many
Kosovars have also chosen to resign positions in opposition to Serbian oppression. The unemployment rate among ethnic Albanians has reached
almost 80%, with few being given jobs meant for Serbs. Rather than signing pacts with Serbia, Kosovars have established their
own schools and health facilities, financed through donations from ethnic Albanians outside of Kosovo. The Albanian population must face physical
threats from the Serbs as well. Beatings of Kosovars by police have become regular since the tightening of Serbian control.
The Albanian Human Rights Council reports that an average of 190 beatings took place each month since 1991. The military
occupation of Kosovo, however, is the clearest indication of its potential instability. Tanks, armored personnel carriers, helicopters, and artillery pieces
are present alongside Albanian farmers in traditional Muslim garb. Pristina, the capital of Kosovo, is an occupied city. The streets
are patrolled by submachine gun-toting police officers, often conducting ID checks of passers-by. Yugoslav Air Force jets scream at low
altitudes. Serbia’s primary stated goal is to force the Albanians out of their homes and land. Serbia would like to
relocate its 140,000 refugees from Croatia and Bosnia in Kosovo. President Clinton has explicitly warned Serbia against provoking trouble in
Kosovo. Since American interest in direct involvement in the Balkans appears less strong, the Milosevic government regards Clinton’s words mildly.
Analysts suggest, however, that Milosevic is much more likely to wait until he has secured diplomatic recognition of his Bosnia
claims before any further action is taken in Kosovo. If the conflict breaks out between Kosovo’s Albanian and Serbian populations,
the war could quickly become a regional entanglement. Macedonia, with its 20 to 40% Muslim population, has an interest in
the defense of the Kosovars. Macedonia’s entrance could drag in Greece, Bulgaria, and Turkey. Kosovo has the unique potential to
become the site of the worst bloodshed to date in the Balkans. Sources: The Economist, History Today, The Nation, The
New Republic, New Statesman & Society, The New York Times, Newsweek, Time, U.S. News and World Report, and The Washington
Post.

The referendum has become so important because the last election was won by politicians who support Statehood. Thus, the governor
of Puerto Rico is trying to influence Puerto Ricans to vote for Statehood. The Governor has been implementing new plans
to deal with criminals, which has led to much debate. The status of Puerto Rico will decide how issues such
as crime are answered. The people who want Puerto Rico to become a full state hope that it will put
it on the same level with the rest of the United States. However, Puerto Rico already gets most of the
benefits of being a state and at the same time keeps its identity. Many people do not realize that Puerto
Ricans are full United States citizens. Thus they already have the rights of Americans. Puerto Rico takes a lot of
pride in its sports and it would have to give up its National teams if it became a state. Jorge
Pardo takes pride in the fact that the Puerto Rican National basketball team finished fourth in the last World competition.
Jorge thinks that the referendum will keep Puerto Rico’s status the same. Puerto Ricans in the United States have already
voted. According to Jorge, three-fourths of the Puerto Ricans living in New York City voted to keep Puerto Rico’s status
the same. This is very important for the referendum because there are almost as many Puerto Ricans in New York
City as in Puerto Rico. The referendum on November 14 has widespread ramifications. Many worry that the annexation of Puerto
Rico could financially burden the other fifty states. The economic situation in Puerto Rico is similar to that in southern
California. According to government figures, if southern California was not included when economists gauge the U.S. economic situation, indicators would
show that the economy is actually growing.

NOTE: Swimming in the main laws. The right strategy.” The New York Times. “We [the gay and lesbian rights movement]
suffered a bitter defeat in the White House and on Capitol Hill over the military ban on homosexuals; just this
week, in a painful and ironic twist, the Administration asked the Supreme Court to block a lower-court order lifting the
ban. The far right continues to step up local attacks: three cities face anti-gay ballot measures next week and as
many as 10 states are gearing up for Colorado-style referendums next year to ban local gay rights. “But these widely
publicized storm clouds conceal a much brighter outlook. Lesbian and gay Americans have never had a better chance to become
a mainstream political movement—if we can come up with the right strategy.” - from “America Without Closets” in the October
29 Op-Ed page of The New York Times.
