THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 12, 1993

Phi Beta Kappa Inducts New Members from the Class of '93
By Sally Stone

The foremost academic achievers of Davidson’s senior class were inducted to the foremost honor society, Phi Beta Kappa, Wednesday, April 7. Thirty-nine men and women from the class of 1993 were honored for their top academic performance in a dinner banquet following a private installation ceremony in Phi Hall.

Phi Beta Kappa is the premier national collegiate honor society, founded on December 5, 1776. Davidson’s chapter, the gamma order, was established on March 1, 1923. Following tradition, this year’s members were elected on the anniversary of Davidson’s founding. Davidson faculty members who are members of their respective colleges’ Phi Beta Kappa chapters also participated in the night’s ceremonies.

Closing the evening’s banquet was a view on life presented by Professor Ward Churchill, a Native American teacher, writer, and critic. He currently serves on the faculty of the University of Colorado at Boulder. Churchill spoke on the year 501, the period of time between Columbus’s arrival and today. Drawing from a 1973 commencement address delivered at Stanford University by Kurt Vonnegut, Churchill reflected on American sentiment. While Vonnegut pessimistically predicted a destructive future, the past three years have turned Dr. Churchill’s attitude toward optimism. After suffering through the destructive mindset prevalent in the 1970s and 1980s, the 1990s bring an “openness to new ideas” with a “willingness to challenge, discuss, and think.” This means, Churchill theorized, that “there’s been a fundamental shift... in consciousness” carrying potential, hope, and possibility with it. In closing, Dr. Churchill noted the symbolic entry into 1993 as the “new cycle” following 500 years of predatory natures and confused mindsets.

1993 Phi Beta Kappa Inductees:
Carla Badget
Clay Bowers
Catherine Milligan
David O'Brien
James Bear
Harin de Silva
Frances Morton
Michael Orta
Maja Berlin
Julie Ferguson
Jane Mount
Laura Preuss
Craig Bohart
Chris Greiling
Zama Neff
Julia Roos
Stuart Hardy
Allison Jones
Gordon LeGrand
Sarah Sadowski
Steven Tregay
Ben Wiley
Davina Hayes
Louise Lackey
Sean Lind
Leila Salisbury
Sam Tutterow
Scott Windham
Gang Hu
Glen Laird
Susan McDonald
Lindsey Shoemaker
Alan Verm
Stephen Wogen
Rob Hughes
Julia Lake
Woodie Miller
Lara Teal
Ross Wallin

Campus Prepares for "Day at the Lake"
By Mandy Curtis

A “Day at the Lake,” sponsored by the houses of Patterson Court, the SGA, the Union Board, and the Environmental Action Committee, is scheduled for Friday, April 16. This all-campus party, centered around the theme of environmental awareness, will start at 12:30 p.m. directly after Convocation. Free lunches, activities, music, and celebration will all be a part of the occasion. The “Day at the Lake” is an event designed by the different organizations on campus to bring...

Recreating the Crucifixion...
Photo by Kristina Nevius

On Thursday, April 8, several students independently organized a re-enactment of the crucifixion to help participants relate to Jesus’ predicament. The wooden cross remained tied to the tree in front of Chambers until Easter.

Patterson Court Stinks
Smell continued from page 1

“are bound to get stopped up sooner or later.” He further said that it is normal for pipes to get backed up and that the only way to stop this from happening would be for “people to stop using the bathroom.” To deter this situation, maintenance cleans out the pipes with a rod-sewer machine every summer. The machine cuts through the solidified grease that is blocking passage through the pipes. In regard to the smell, Archer...and Grounds Superintendent George Morris explained that it is a result of the excess of rain we have received this spring. The stagnant water from the rain causes “sour soil.” Due to over-saturation, the organic material in the soil gives off a “not so pleasant smell.” Morris stated, “This may be what we’re smelling.”

WE ARE NOT STRICTLY A MEXICAN RESTAURANT!!!

Although we do have the most extensive and most authentic Mexican menu in the area, we also feature items such as:
- Fresh Seafood
- Hand Cut Steaks
- Rotisserie Chicken & Ribs
- Imported Beers
- Wine by the Glass or Bottle
- Fresh Homemade Dessert
- Pasta

Davidson Alumni: 75¢ Draft and 15% Discount for Students with ID

Wendell's Cafe can also handle your catering needs. Wendell’s will cater anything from a backyard BBQ to an indoor black tie party or wedding receptions! Wendell’s can cater parties from 5 to 500 people.

Hours:
Lunch: Tues.-Fri. 11:30 am - 2:00 pm
Dinner: Tues.-Thurs. 5:30-9:00 pm
Fri-Sat. 5:30-10:00 pm
Sun. & Mon. Closed

Located in Shops on the Green
896-0078
Take-Out Available!

the school together. PCC president Julie Petty and Union Board president Merrill Earnest came up with the idea for the all-campus party and organized much of the planning. According to Petty, she and Earnest wanted to plan something for the entire campus so that everyone could come together in a positive social atmosphere. Because Friday classes after 9:30 a.m. have been canceled for Convocation, it is a perfect time, according to Petty. As part of the agreement with the College to have the event, the PCC, the SGA, and the Union Board encourage everyone to attend Convocation first.

According to Patterson Court Advisor Kurt Holmes, the lake campus party will be a day for everyone to interact together, much like the Lunar Luau of the fall and Saturday of Spring Frolics. By pooling resources together from many different organizations on campus, the event will be able to provide a social opportunity for everyone, according to Holmes. Petty explained that the motive behind this activity is to focus on the positive aspects of Davidson as a college and community. “We focus on the negative so much; now we want to do something positive and together for all of the groups on campus,” stated Petty.

SGA president Alden Smith hopes that the lake campus party will provide a good time for everyone on campus. Most importantly, he would like this event to “bring back a feeling of togetherness to the Davidson College social life.” Smith said, “Often we are criticized for not providing a common experience where everyone feels welcome.” Smith hopes that the event will help bring a sense of solidarity back to the campus. Faculty are also invited to the “Day at the Lake.” Petty explained that there are few opportunities for the faculty to interact with the students in environments other than the classroom. Petty said that it will be “a good opportunity for [the faculty] to come out” and see one of the positive sides of the Davidson social atmosphere. In discussing plans with President Kuykendall, Petty commented that

See Lake on page 5

Welcome & Welcome Back

Cals parents and alumni for 27 years! We offer a tremendous range of gifts, bath products, and decorative accessories. We gladly provide free gift wrapping, shipping service, and accept phone orders. Stop by for a visit!

704-892-3242
1(800)841-9490