THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1993

No one has

By Christy Block

The flu may no longer be a fact of life. As defined by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDCP), influenza (or “flu”) is a viral infection of the nose, throat, bronchial tubes, and lungs that can infect anyone. The United States is typically attacked by the virus from approximately November to April. The infection consists of the basic discomforts of illness—fever, chills, cough, soreness and aching of muscles—and for most people only lasts a few days, at which time their bodies have developed an immunity to the virus.

Although most of us tend to acknowledge the flu as a fact of life and move on from there, this year the issue calls for some action. Flu season is already on its merry way into our immune systems here at Davidson, and this Fall it’s gonna be a doozy. The harsh Beijing flu is expected to hit the United States in an until now unknown strain... i.e., we’re going to get sick. Dr. Lone Simonsen of the CDCP says that “...even though you were exposed to similar strains in the past, you might not be able to defend yourself against this new one.”

According to the CDCP, the new virus emerged late in last year’s flu season, infecting and killing the elderly through May—two months after influenza usually disappears. The virus mutated late last Spring, and as a result even those who had gotten vaccinations were infected. The good news in all this is that the virus hit early enough last year to have been incorporated in this year’s vaccination. So, all it takes is a quick stop by the Student Health Center, and hopefully our friend the flu virus will decide to take its mission elsewhere.

Although the majority of students on campus fall into the category of generally healthy bodies, taking a little precaution is an advisable measure before we enter exam week. It is “strongly advised” that anyone that is HIV positive, 65 years of age or older, health care workers and hospital personnel (that includes those who are interning), people with kidney disease, cystic fibrosis, chronic metabolic disease (diabetes, anemia) or asthma. The CDCP asks that those who provide “essential community functions” get the shot as well; I believe we all fall under that category. Flu shots are available at the Student Health Center until November 12th, 1:30-3:30 pm.

Information taken from: "Centerlines," Florida Hospital Newsletter and the CDC HRS Form 1198, Aug, ’93. For more info., call 1-800-869-1616.

Temo Tarrago '86 sheds light on NAFTA

By Elizabeth Whitehead

Temo Tarrago, a 1986 graduate of Davidson, returned the night of Monday, October 11th, to speak about NAFTA. Tarrago was introduced by Professor Appleyard. The lecture was followed with questions by both faculty and students. Tarrago gave a “Mexican” view of NAFTA, the North American Free Trade Agreement. He explained that although the topic was a “sensitive one,” in the long run it could mean more jobs for everyone. He admitted that although free trade between Canada, the United States, and Mexico might solve some problems, it would not guarantee an end to all economic or political problems. He claimed NAFTA “means change, re-looking.”

According to Tarrago, it involves convincing companies and individuals in the United States that although some jobs may be lost temporarily, the future benefits will far outweigh the immediate costs. One of the key issues brought up during the session was that of change. Tarrago stressed that although Mexico and Latin America did face some economic turmoil in the 1980s, it is time to reexamine the situation in light of democracy and “economic pick-up.” “NAFTA is about trade,” according to Tarrago, and could take up to 15 years to evolve fully. Tariffs, which would be removed by the agreement, could be reinstated in an emergency situation in order to protect a country.

“There are millions of people down there who think highly of the U.S. but also fear the U.S.” Many Mexicans, especially those who are not educated, do not read the papers and therefore fear that NAFTA might cause them to lose the jobs they rely on for survival. Each country seems to have its own misconceptions and fears. “Changes are going to occur with or without NAFTA, but NAFTA will stabilize changes, make them more predictable,” said Tarrago. He went on to say that most Mexicans who immigrate to the U.S. come only because they need employment, and that NAFTA could mean opportunity for people within their own homeland. According to Tarrago, NAFTA could be the answer to the current immigrant crisis in the U.S.

When asked about how the other Latin American countries might respond tobeing included in the NAFTA agreement, Tarrago concluded that they would want to belong since the plan “makes sense.” Tarrago, who was born in Monterrey, Mexico, and in 1985, was invited to attend Davidson, and spent his remaining two years of school studying International Relations and the Economy. After graduation, Tarrago chose to open an import/export business in Cornelius. After a year, Tarrago decided to exit the world of small business, and now serves as Vice President of Bancomer in New York City. Following the lecture, members of the audience gathered around Tarrago to ask more questions. A number of faculty members reminisced about his Davidson days and about his shop in Cornelius.

CT WIRE | Defacing, propaganda upset students

CLEVELAND (CPS) - Anti-Semitic fliers stuffed in textbooks about Nazi war criminals and the defacing of a black theology textbook temporarily put students and professors on edge at Cleveland State University. Both incidents took place in late September at the university bookstore. Someone slipped fliers containing “anti-Holocaust propaganda” into copies of “Prosecuting Nazi War Criminals,” which was written by a faculty member, Alan Rosenbaum, and used in a philosophy course, reported the Campus Marketplace, a newsletter of the National Association of College Stores. Keith McCann, manager of the bookstore, said store employees immediately pulled fliers from the remaining books, sent copies to Rosenbaum and destroyed the rest. Similar incidents have occurred several times in the past 10 years, he said. “We generally try to keep it quiet because if we draw attention to it, it’s just going to happen more often. We correct the situation and just move on,” McCann told the newsletter. In the other incident, the only copy of “For All My People,” a textbook for a black theology class, had three chapters cut out and a dark liquid stained the top edges of the pages. The liquid reportedly looked like blood, although it was not officially identified as such.

Blacks not filling faculty pipeline

ITHACA, NY (CPS) - Doctoral graduates from historically black institutions are not filling the pipeline to teaching and research positions at the nation’s leading research universities and liberal arts colleges, a study by Cornell University researchers shows. Economics and industrial and labor relations professor Ronald Ehrenberg and graduate student Donna Rothstein found that among the new set of Ph.D.s who entered academic careers between 1987 to 1991, only 4 percent of those from historically black institutions gained positions at research institutions or liberal arts colleges. Conversely, 31 percent of their peers who obtained their doctoral degrees from major research universities received positions, the study found. The differences, the researchers found, “may reflect ignorance about historically black institutions (HBIs), discriminatory attitudes toward the graduates of HBIs, or the failure of faculty in the elite graduate programs to aggressively recruit potential graduate students from HBIs.” Ehrenberg and Rothstein suggest that universities and liberal arts colleges initiate programs to recruit high-achieving bachelor-degree graduates from historically black colleges and from predominantly black Northern urban universities into doctoral programs at major research universities.

Service provides experience

By Randal Lee

Difficult courses, impossible reviews, or parties down on Patterson Court may be some of the meaningful experiences at Davidson, but learning to work with people and understanding those who are unfortunate in our society may also be invaluable lessons. Davidson has a variety of community services available through the Service Coordinator, Gigi Cook or Reach-Out. Students are encouraged to pay heed to their surrounding community and contribute to its well-being by getting involved. All sorts of services are at hand for students of different concerns ranging from handling social problems like teen-pregnancy to other activities such as helping elementary kids. After school activities within the Davidson community consist of helping children at school and taking care of elderly citizens. Students interested in teaching as a future profession can start tutoring sessions with elementary kids. Also, special classes outside of school learning for these children are possible choices. For example, students may start language classes or swimming instructions through the coordination of Cook. Other programs to help children are the Lunch Buddy, Big Brother/Sister, and Reading Buddy programs which are all designed as a one-on-one basis with the student and the child. Such important programs are recommended, and Cook urged students to participate. Many students have adopted grandparents from nursing homes, committing their time to helping other people.

Other areas outside of Davidson also provide many opportunities. According to Gigi Cook, Charlotte has the most diverse opportunities for students. For those who have questions or any suggestions, Cook is always welcome. She is very proud of the active involvement of Davidson students, but also says, “We can always be looking for more help!”

As part of Parent's Weekend, the Chaplain's Office is sponsoring a WORSHIP SERVICE on Sunday, October 31 (Halloween). Chaplain Rob Spach, assisted by several students, will lead the service which will be held in Love Auditorium at 9:30 a.m. All are invited and encouraged to attend.