ARTS MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1993

Blind Melon, Lenny Kravitz take the Queen City by storm

By Rachel Newcomb

Independence Arena, the site of the recent Blind Melon/Lenny Kravitz concert, used to be the Charlotte Coliseum. I haven’t been
there in years; I can remember going to the circus there, and Ice Capades. It seemed so much bigger then.
But it was an appropriate venue for Lenny Kravitz, small enough to be intimate and large enough to hold the
approximately 12,000 people who showed up. It’s a good middle-sized arena for events like these.

After seeing a succession of rock dinosaurs in recent months, it was refreshing to hear a relatively new artist. Kravitz
is undoubtedly talented, having performed with the California Boys’ Choir as well as with the Metropolitan Opera in the past.
His songs stress personal freedom and diversity, a diversity that is evidenced in his background. Half Bahamian, half Jewish, Kravitz
is the son of an NBC producer and Roxie Roker, an actress best known for her role as “Helen” on
"The Jeffersons."

Lenny Kravitz’s music has its roots in the rock music of the 60s and 70s, but he adds an innovative
twist to it that is appealing to people of the younger generation. The audience at the concert was primarily teenagers
and people in their early 20s, a strange mix of rednecks and thrift store bargain hunters. These Kravitz fans seemed
to be mimicking Lenny’s 1970s wardrobe—I’ve never seen so many bellbottoms, velour shirts, and flowered polyester mini dresses in one
place. It was more Brady Bunch than hippie, a true sign that the many members of the crowd were paying
homage to their birth decade.

Blind Melon opened with a spirited set that included the widely popular “No Rain.” After they played for approximately forty-five
minutes, there was a short intermission before Lenny took the stage. Clad in sunglasses, a white vest, and black leather
pants, Lenny strutted onto the stage, his guitar firmly in hand. A born entertainer, he swung his long dreadlocks and
began the first notes of “Is there any love in your heart?” He followed this with an amazing “Fields of
Joy,” beginning with the slow guitar notes at the beginning and building up the climax of the song: a strong
blend of guitar, drums, horn, keyboards, and Lenny’s powerful wailing. During “Fields of Joy,” a collage of green, yellow, and
purple lights was scattered in all directions to satisfy all the psychedelic longings of the audience.

With its Led Zeppelin-esque drum rhythms, “Come On and Love Me” was next. For these previous songs, Lenny moved quickly
from one song to the other, giving the crowd no rest. After playing “Stop Draggin’ Around” from the Mama Said
album, Lenny paused, then asked the audience, “Are y’all ready to take a ride on the Freedom Train?” What followed
was an intense rendition of two of my favorite songs, “Freedom Train” and “Mama Said.” The heavy bass was punctuated
by howls of “Get on the Freedom Train!”

See Lenny on page 12

McLaurin advises young to live fully, write later.

By Alex Crumbley

“I’m about as formal as a six-pack of Budweiser,” remarked novelist Tim McLaurin as he took the podium Tuesday night
in front of a 900 Room crowd. McLaurin proved himself correct as he spoke casually for an hour about his
life and writing, never removing the six-dollar drugstore sunglasses which hung from a button on his golf shirt. A talented
storyteller and true Southerner, McLaurin paid less attention to the formalities of speaking and more to the truth of what
he had to say. His message was simple and clear. He addressed the issue of what it is to be
a writer. “In order to write a novel or a short story,” he said, “you have to know something to
be true or to be false. You can’t be ambivalent about it.”

According to McLaurin, there are true writers who have a story to tell and a “sense of place” in which
to tell them, and there are those who call themselves writers who really aren’t. McLaurin advised aspiring writers to live
fully and write about it later, for “there’s plenty of time for that.” He shared his film “The Rough South:
The Stories of Tim McLaurin” with Dr. Abbott’s and Dr. Kuzmanovich’s classes on Tuesday afternoon. The film, in which he
reads some of his short fiction and talks about his life and his uncanny obsession with snakes, appeared on North
Carolina Public Television and won the Haney Award presented by the Public Broadcasting System.

McLaurin writes unusually quickly. He wrote his first novel in six weeks, and his latest, which he claims to have
been his slowest, took him only a few months. When asked if he uses an outline or does any prewriting,
he replied, “No, I just pretty much write down the story that’s already in my head.”

Evening of an author

Noting the importance of a writer having a sense of place, North Carolina native Tim McLaurin speaks to the packed
900 Room Tuesday night.

Photo by Casey Rogers

He continued, “Writing is low-paying work, hard work, and lonely work. It’s not something I recommend, really.” Despite his deceptively
pessimistic advice about writing, McLaurin has achieved considerable success in the field.profession. His first novel, The Acorn Plan, and his
second, Woodrow’s Trumpet, both published by W.W. Norton, came out in 1988 and 1989, and his third book, his memoir,
Keeper of the Moon, brought him national acclaim. A New York Times reviewer wrote of him, “McLaurin has real talent.
He is a moving writer—never cute, nor overly colloquial—and his prose has a lyrical clarity that conveys with unusual dignity
the integrity of his own experience.” Keeper of the Moon won for him The Mayflower Award of the North Carolina
Literary and Historical Societies for the best non-fiction work of 1991. His writing is rich with the colloquialisms and color
of the rural, blue-collar South, where he was raised. He grew up in Fayetteville, North Carolina in a working-class family
of eight, and after graduating from Cape Fear High, he joined the Marines. In 1983 he married Katie Oliver Early,
a Davidson alumna with whom he served in the Peace Corps in Tunisia. They later returned to Chapel Hill, where
they now reside, and McLaurin completed a B.A. in journalism. At age 36, McLaurin was diagnosed with multiple myeloma, a
rare form of bone cancer. He writes in Keeper of the Moon about his arduous battle with the disease, which
took him to Seattle where he received a successful bone marrow transplant. On Tuesday night he advocated participation in Davidson’s
Bone Marrow Drive, which will take place November 17 sponsored by Project Life. In addition to writing, McLaurin teaches and
conducts a traveling snake show. He recently completed his third novel, “Cured by Fire,” which is set for publication next
year.

The mood swings at Blues Night
By Ross Sloop

This past Monday evening the 900 Room of the College Union was filled with the blues rhythms of the Manic
Moodswings from Charlotte. The Moodswings came to Davidson as the second performance in the Union’s monthly series of Monday night
blues gigs. This blues group jammed it out for a group of about sixty students from 10:00 p.m. to 12:30.
Everyone seemed to be enjoying the band and having a good time. The five-member Manic Moodswings consist of Irwin Bostian
on lead guitar, the lovely Donna Duncan as lead vocalist, Steve Parrott on rhythm/slide guitar, Bill Scott hammering out the
drums, and Mark Schroeder playing bass guitar. About two years ago Bostian and Duncan teamed up with Parrott, who is
from Colorado. The trio got their start playing sets at the Foundry in Charlotte. Not much later Scott came along
and Schroeder has been a Moodswing for about three months. The band has an authentic blues sound and is not
afraid to delve into some heated improvisation. Bostian admits to strong influences from such artists as Ry Cooder and Little
Feat. The band’s energy seems to funnel through Donna Duncan who bounced around stage and sang with a captivating voice.
For the most part, the Moodswings played covers of

See Manic on page 13

Scorsese's "Age of Innocence" restores faith in the cinema
By Scott McLean

After many long weeks of drudgery in the theaters, my prayers have finally been answered and a movie has come
out that is worth the price of admission and then some. Perhaps someone heard my torturous cries and decided to
have pity on me, or maybe Hollywood sensed that y’all were tired of me complaining week after week. Whatever the
reason, it just goes to show that miracles never cease. So now you all probably want to know what is
this film that has restored my faith in the movie industry, do you not? Well, my children, I shall tell
you. It is Martin Scorsese’s masterfully crafted film, “The Age of Innocence.” I’m sure all of you have heard things
about this film already, but for me seeing was believing. I was a little skeptical because I am not one
for romance flicks and I wondered whether the film would hold my attention for two hours, not to mention the
fact that period pieces are often not done very well. As it turns out I was not disappointed in any
sense. Co-writing the screenplay as well as directing, Scorsese has wonderfully adapted Edith Wharton’s novel of social politics in nineteenth-century
New York high society. This film confirms his status as one of the greatest directors of all time.

The story focuses on Newland Archer (Daniel Day-Lewis), a prominent attorney from one of the best families in New York.
Newland is engaged to May Welland (Winona Ryder), a naive New York socialite who at the moment is busy playing
hostess to an out-of-town guest: her cousin Countess Ellen Olenska (Michelle Pfeiffer). The Countess has recently returned to New York
after having fled a crumbling marriage. However, her “scandal” has followed her to America and this coupled with her independent
and straightforward manner makes it difficult for her to fit into the social hierarchy which exists in New York. Things
become more complicated when Newland realizes that he is in love with the Countess. Forced to hide their passion by
the enormous social pressures of the world

See Age continued on page 12
