THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1993 ~~ 5

B&E gone: where to go for midnight munchies?

Student night-owls have to be creative if they don't want to go hungry.

By Court McBryde

Last spring one of Davidson College students’ favorites, Bacon and Eggs, closed, leaving students’ options for a midnight munchies meal
fewer and farther away. Bacon and Eggs shut down when their lease ran out on McDonald’s property. Because McDonald’s does
not like to share property with restaurants due to the threat of competition for business, B & E’s lease was
not renewed.

Waffle House employee in Mooresville, Clarence Mayo, claims that Waffle House’s business has increased significantly since the closing of B
& E. Like Bacon and Eggs, The Waffle House is open 24 hours, 7 days a week. Mayo says there
are a lot of Davidson students that make the drive to the Waffle House “mostly during the week from 11
p.m.-2 a.m.” However, he encourages all students to come up and eat at any time.

Mayo, who worked for B & E before it closed, says, “The students were not hard to serve; they were
great!” However, he claims that “although the Waffle House doesn’t have the variety of Bacon and Eggs, the quality of
food is better.”

Denny’s, Mooresville, is another substitute. The restaurant is open 24 hours, 7 days a week as well. However, they said
their business has not been affected one way or another from the closing of B & E and they do
not see a lot of students.

For those students not wanting to travel to Mooresville, there is the Buttery and Beanery, which opened in 1977, located
on the way to the Lake Campus. They are open every day except Tuesday for breakfast and lunch. However, they
close at 3 p.m. Saturday to Tuesday and at 5 p.m. Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday. Linda Holthouser, employee of B
& B, said they see some students and faculty. During Homecoming and Parents’ Weekend a lot of alumni and families
dined at the B & B. Holthouser claims that the closing of Bacon and Eggs has not made a difference
in their business, but “we would always like to see more Davidson students.”

Many students feel that the Union Outpost is the best option of them all for the late night munchies, especially
after a night of “partying.” The most popular orders are the nachos and pizza.

Dean Rusk speaker McNeill Smith discusses Estonia on Wednesday in the 900 Room. He predicted that all Russian troops would
depart the former Soviet Republic by the end of the year.

Attorney McNeill Smith "reinvents" Estonia.

By Leigh Rawdon

Wandering empty banquet halls for leftover sweets, attorney McNeill Smith made an impression in post-communist Estonia. “I went around eating
those desserts because I didn’t want to waste,” said a grinning Smith Wednesday in the 900 Room in response to
the introduction.

Smith did make an impression on the independent Baltic state, though his influence extended far beyond the dessert table. The
North Carolina lawyer and ex-state legislator recounted his experience in Estonia when the American Bar Association sent him to “reinvent
the government” for a free society. His tales were personal and accessible to a diverse audience of a few students
and a majority of community adults, including trustees, lawyers, and the college president.

Smith had heard that his time in Estonia would be like “taking law to the lawless,” but he found the
rumor was “absolutely not true.” The Estonians had their own style of government—“unless it is permitted, it is forbidden.” All
but one of the legislators Smith worked with were schooled in the Soviet Union, at a university that had no
pencil sharpeners. The priceless nature of the electronic pencil sharpener he donated indicates only one of the unusual tendencies he
discovered.

Before he left, Smith called AAA to ask for maps of “Estonia.” Though it was a free state, the AAA
agent said, “We don’t have city maps. Is that in Missouri?” Estonia is smaller than North Carolina, and about 40%
woodlands.

Why has Estonia survived? The language, said Smith. He attributes the survival of the language in part to music, which
was never outlawed. “A new constitution, written in 1992, requires that anyone applying for citizenship must speak Estonian,” he explained.Applying
for citizenship must learn 800 words of the language, a number lowered from 1,500. Some Estonians, though, insist on speaking
Russian, a loyalty born out of the 1940 treaty which granted the Baltic states to Russia. The treaty led to
an existing problem—the occupation of Russian troops. When Smith arrived in Estonia, 800,000 troops occupied the area. He announced with
a glimmer of excitement that by 1994, Estonia will not be occupied. With the most stable currency of former Russian
states, Estonia has a potentially bright future. Despite the many showers without hot water and the meat, potatoes, and carrots
for every meal, Smith found his time in Estonia valuable. “I think the effort has been worth it,” he said.
Smith is a 75-year-old partner in the Greensboro law firm of Smith, Helms, Mulliss & Moore. He graduated from UNC-Chapel
Hill and Columbia Law School. During World War II, he served in the U.S. Navy. He later served in the
N.C. state house for one term in '70 and was a state senator from '72 to '78. Jeff Fuller contributed
to this article.

Fast foods, similar to those sold at Waffle House, Denny’s, B & B, and the late B & E, are
available at the Outpost. Says one sophomore: “I was sad to see the B & E close, but I’d rather
go to the Outpost because you can get the same type of food and you don’t have to risk getting
in a car after a party.” B & E may be gone and with it a Davidson tradition; but there
are still many other late-night options for students in need of a study break, bored, wired, wasted, or just hungry.

Planning Aids College Career

UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. (CPS)—How you prepare for college before strolling through the ivy-covered gates and during the first year is
as important to your future success as the academic work you do, an administrator says. “We have found that high
school students who make informed decisions when they choose a college major are more likely to persist, succeed, and graduate
from college,” said James Levin, co-author of a study about how high school and college counselors can best advise students
in career planning. The same holds true for first-year college students who have undeclared majors or may be thinking of
switching to a different field of study. Levin, an assistant professor of education, also helps coordinate the Division of Undergraduate
Studies at Penn State University.

“When some students make these decisions they seem to become more informed on the importance of salary ranges than on
other areas such as matching personal skills and interests with certain majors,” Levin said. The study focused on the characteristics
of 1,044 college students in order to determine what prompted them to persist in their studies, achieve higher grades, and
graduate from college, and which factors put students at risk. Students who major in fields that are believed to pay
high salaries, such as engineering, base their choices of majors solely on the prospect of employment opportunities, high salaries, and
status. However, such motives, coupled with lack of ability and real interest in the subject, may contribute significantly to the
attrition rate of up to 50 percent for students who currently pursue engineering degrees, the study said. Students should choose
a major based on their own talents, interests, and aptitude, the study recommended. Students should also be honest about their
own abilities and interests to learn more about the reality of their chosen professions before they spend years studying for
a degree that they can’t or don’t want to use.

“Virtually all students are at risk if they don’t involve themselves in making informed educational planning decisions before entering college
years,” Levin said. “Any student can become frustrated or overwhelmed by taking courses they aren’t interested or talented in, or
don’t have an aptitude for.”

Anti-Bigotry Conference Held

HANOVER, N.J. (CPS)—Students, faculty, and staff from the Ivy League schools gathered Nov. 7-10 at Dartmouth College for a conference
on how to alleviate bigotry on college campuses. “We’re looking for a ripple effect,” said George Demko, director of Dartmouth’s
Nelson A. Rockefeller Center for Social Sciences, which is hosting the meeting. About 50 students, staff, and faculty representatives from
various Ivy League schools attended. The conference focused on the roots of bigotry and plans for combating it on campuses
around the nation.
