THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

After brief discussion, College decides to continue traditional, accepted tenure policy

By Mandy Curtis

After the Civil War, a professor was fired from Davidson because he said he was going to vote for Ulysses S. Grant in the next election. At that time, tenure was not a formal arrangement between the college and the faculty as it is today. Tenure is a system that was institutionalized in the late '50s and early ‘60s. It is a system within colleges and universities that protects the employment of professors after an interim period at the school. After that time, a professor can only be dismissed based on scholarly incompetence or immoral conduct.

Across the nation, tenure has been up for examination and reassessment in recent years. According to Dr. Alexander McKelway, Davidson’s faculty representatives, including Dr. Randy Nelson, Dr. Ben Klein, and McKelway, took part in discussing the concept of tenure with the Educational Committee of the Trustees on September 7. The committee is interested in the details regarding promotion and tenure. McKelway says that there is nothing unusual about the interest; discussion did not arise due to any movement to change the tenure policy at the college.

According to McKelway, tenure is a “legal, contractual agreement between the faculty and the institution” that still serves an important purpose at the college. The system forces the school to undertake “intensive and extensive investigations of the professors” on the faculty. At Davidson, the probationary period is six years before a professor is brought up for tenure. Previous to the sixth year, the professor is reviewed and evaluated; however, after that, the administration makes a decision whether or not a professor will receive tenure.

The Faculty Tenure Review Committee is in charge of the thorough evaluation of the professor at that time. The investigation assesses the value of the professor’s teaching and research, as well as one’s willingness to assist students and interest in the community and college. “Any perception of professional weakness” can cause a professor to be denied tenure, according to McKelway.

After a professor receives tenure, he or she is protected from unjust dismissal. The system was started in the United States because at the time there was a tendency for professionals to be dismissed due to political or moral discrimination. There are two major theoretical concerns about tenure, according to McKelway. The first is whether anyone should be guaranteed employment to the time of retirement. The second question is why only this one profession be guaranteed employment when no other is.

At Davidson, professors have various incentives throughout their career to continue working, researching, and teaching to the best of their abilities, says McKelway. The salary scale and the promotional system keep the professors going; no one is ever “home free” after receiving tenure. According to McKelway, it would be very difficult for an institution to secure a good faculty without the tenure policy. To McKelway’s knowledge, there is no school with a good reputation without a tenure system.that has not adopted or that has abandoned the tenure system in the United States. "There will always be the few instances where a faculty member is no longer fulfilling the expectations of the institution prior to being tenured. But, according to McKelway, there is always a price to be paid for having any system, even a valuable system like tenure.

News Staff meeting at 8:00 Monday in the Wilson Room. During the meeting, members of the editorial board will be giving tips on writing news, arts, and sports stories. All of those interested in writing for The Davidsonian are encouraged to attend.

Union-sponsored aerate open at nether Rn a ON MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1993

Freshmen Brian Boyd, Kristen Kidd, and James McCullum on Photo by Lillian Maltgeiiny the Chattooga River for the summer Odyssey program.

Davidson Outdoors dives into action
By Court McBryde

Hang gliding, kayaking, rafting, backpacking, cycling, and rock climbing are some of the activities Davidson Outdoors offers to Davidson students, faculty, and staff. Davidson Outdoors exists as a program. Davidson graduates Ed and Marlys Daugherty are the directors of this program. Ed Daugherty founded Davidson Outdoors as a senior at Davidson in 1986 and this is the couple’s second year as program directors.

Davidson Outdoors’ fall schedule consists of a variety of ten trips during weekends of September, October, and November. The trips range from white water backpacking at Mount Rogers, mountain biking in the Pisgah National Forest, to rock climbing at Crowder’s Mountain. Davidson Outdoors provides equipment, transportation, and meals for all trips and the average cost of a trip is $13.

In addition to the regular weekend excursions, Davidson Outdoors offers three fall break trips and two Christmas vacation trips for reasonable prices. During fall break, October 15-19, Davidson Outdoors sponsors a trip to hang gliding flight school on the Outer Banks of North Carolina. The Daughertys will be teaching a kayaking clinic in the Great Smokey Mountains on Lake Fontana and the Tuckaseegee and Nantahala rivers. A white water rafting trip on the New and Gauley Rivers is available. These trips are open to anyone and cost $150.00 each, including transportation, training and instruction, meals, camping, and equipment. All trips are led by Davidson students who have undergone training in wilderness and leadership skills through Davidson Outdoors.

The Christmas vacation trips run about ten days. One trip is canoeing in the Everglades, January 7-16, which costs $160.00. The other Christmas journey is January 6-16, sailing on a 37-foot sailboat on Florida’s Gulf Coast for $320.00.

Senior Alexia Gregory is the student head of Davidson Outdoors. She planned the fall schedule and wants students to become exposed to the trips available. Gregory says, “If people will try the trips once they will love the experience.” The Daughertys feel this program provides the opportunity for people to spend time with friends in a different setting. But most importantly, their goal is to make sure Davidson Outdoors trips feel like a student program. The Daughertys want the trips this year to run with a higher number of people. If students do not like the trips available they should make suggestions.

In addition to the wide range of trips, Davidson Outdoors has a climbing wall located in Johnston Gym open Sunday to Thursday from 7-9 p.m., and Wednesday rolling clinics are offered in Baker Sports Complex every Thursday from 7-9 p.m. Both activities welcome anyone from the beginner to the expert. Davidson Outdoors also provides people with maps, trail information, and rents camping equipment for those people adventuring off into the wilderness on their own.

If anyone is interested in becoming a trip leader for Davidson Outdoors, a Trip Leader Training Course will be available to any student during the spring semester this year as a physical education course which will count for a lifetime credit. From these trainees, the Daughertys will select student leaders based on a particular criterion.

Two faculty members, 66 freshmen, and 20 upperclassmen trip leaders have already taken the opportunity to venture on a Davidson Outdoors experience by participating in the Odyssey from August 19-25. The 78 participants were split into twelve crews and spent five days paddling and hiking either the Chattooga, French Broad, or Nolichucky river trails. They ended their expedition working on service projects such as Habitat for Humanity. Freshman Chloe Bracis says the best thing about the Odyssey was being in the middle of nowhere away from school. Freshman Odyssey participant Adam Ziegler sums up his experience in a journal entry, “If this preview is any indication of the general Davidson experience then I am definitely in the right place.”