THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, APRIL 12, 1993 5 __NEWS

Watson Scholars to Receive $15,000 in Grants

By Mary McCrory

After graduation, most students look for some form of employment or continue their education in graduate school, law school, or
medical school. This year, three Davidson graduates will have the opportunity to continue their education in classrooms of their own
design and supervision. Each of the three seniors, Sara Carlson, Reid French, and Heather Tarpley, have been awarded Watson Fellowships
which will enable them to spend a year investigating their special interests. The Thomas J. Watson Foundation awards 65 such
fellowships at 52 participating colleges and universities, in support of independent study and travel abroad.

After reviewing 24 short proposals in October, and after conducting brief interviews with applicants, the Graduate Fellowship Committee selected four
proposals to be sent to the national foundation. Before submittal, the proposals had to be revised and expanded to eight
pages. Also, the applicants then faced hour-long interviews with a representative of the foundation (in this case, a Davidson alum).

Sara Carlson plans to research the evolutionary relationship between breeds of ponies and the ties between ponies and humans. Her
study will take her to the Shetland Islands and the Hebrides in Scotland, Iceland, Gotland, Sweden, and England. She hopes
to keep her travel costs reasonable by staying in rural areas and by staying in the homes of members of
Rotary International, a civic organization which her family is involved in. While researching for her proposal, “I went through the
old travel catalogues of Boswell and Johnson to figure out where I wanted to go,” Carlson explained. These catalogues, written
in the 18th century, give accounts of the lifestyles of the Scottish people, and include all of the different kinds
of ponies they saw.

After her year abroad, Carlson hopes to attend graduate school in English and eventually write children’s stories about ponies. Ponies
have been a long-term interest for her, as she grew up with them, and was able to learn more about
their importance to the Scottish people when she studied at the University of Edinburgh during the fall of her junior
year.

Heather Tarpley will spend her time in Kenya, Uganda, and Australia focusing on comparative owl studies. This will involve banding
the owls to monitor behavior, and getting in a Land Rover at night to “spotlight” owls. When animals are being
spotlighted at night, they remain stationary, which will allow Tarpley to determine specifically where each species of owl lives in
a given area. Such data will help her to correlate where species live in relation to different terrains.

According to Tarpley, her biggest expenses will be airfare and living in Australia, though most of her time will be
spent in Africa in national parks. While in Kenya, she will use the School for Field Studies, where she studied
during the fall of her junior year, as a home base. In Uganda, she will be staying with relatives of
junior Anthony Mubiro. When her study is complete, Tarpley will go on to medical school at the University of Georgia,
where she has already been accepted. She hopes to pursue a veterinary career with a focus on wildlife instead of
domesticated animals. Tarpley’s research is important because it will examine biodiversity. “Biodiversity is how diverse a certain biosphere is. Owls
are one indicator of that,” Tarpley remarked.

Reid French intends to study the effects of global recession on the financing of each nation’s national and regional theater.
Theater companies in those nations have relied upon state funding, but are finding their budgets cut by governments seeking to
curb deficits. His study will take him to the Netherlands and Great Britain. During his time at Davidson, French has
conducted economic analysis of social problems, and has become involved in theatrical productions. During the fall of this year, he
took on complete responsibility for the production of Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat as an independent study project.Possible career
for French, and he hopes that his Watson Fellowship will help him make that decision. During their year abroad, the
Watson Fellows are studying independently for the most part, but they are responsible for sending 4 quarterly reports of progress
on their research and for financial reports to document their expenses. The application process for a Watson Fellowship is somewhat
lengthy, but those with the initiative for drafting a proposal have a chance at success. According to Sara Carlson, “Innovation
in your French field is critical,” for those interested in winning a Watson Fellowship.

By Chris Hood

On Saturday, May 1, most students will probably be debating whether to begin studying for final exams or to continue
procrastinating one more day. Fortunately, a plethora of events will be waiting on the Town Green to entice them into
doing the latter as Davidson celebrates Town Day. Bands, booths, exhibits, and other forms of entertainment begin at 10:00 a.m.
and last throughout the afternoon. At 5:00 p.m., members of the town and college communities are invited to stay for
a picnic on the Green. Parks and Recreation Director Karen Leonard reports that the famous Four Coursemen, the Gethsemane Gospel
Singers, and the juggling of News and Photography Director Bill Giduz will be among the acts scheduled to perform. “Town
Day is about bringing the town and college communities together,” Leonard explained. A dinner without the preliminary activities was held
at the Ada Jenkins Center in the fall and attracted approximately 600 people. Given the added number of events this
spring, she hopes that number to increase dramatically.

Students Invited to Attend Town Day

College organizations helping organize the picnic are Reach Out's Davidson Together program, chaired by John Rowe and Kirby Shealy, and
the SGA Solidarity Committee, headed by Tene Moore. “This is a really nice opportunity for the students to take a
break before exams,” Rowe said. He also noted that this year’s Town Day differs from that of years past because
it occurs the week before exams, thus offering students an added incentive to participate. Moore pointed out the benefits of
increased interaction between the student body and the town population. “We want to have a dinner that will incorporate Town
Day with the students,” she stated. In addition to the numerous activities, “the students have to eat anyway. Town Day
would be a great place for that.”

Unity the Aim in "Day at the Lake"

Lake continued from page 3

He was very receptive to the idea. The theme of the lake campus party is environmental awareness. The Environmental Action
Committee would like to see this event promote awareness of environmental issues “on campus and in the larger picture,” according
to committee member Sally Atlas. The committee would also like to get everyone interested and “excited” about next week’s Earth
Day. In accordance with the theme, each of the houses on the court will be providing a booth based on
environmental awareness. In design, these booths will promote environmental ideals such as recycling, decreasing pollution, and conserving energy. In addition
to the booths, there will be catered food for lunch from the Commons and outside venues, water activities such as
canoeing, sailing, and swimming, games of volleyball and frisbee, and music. There will be a DJ there to satisfy the
tastes of everyone on campus. Free printed frisbees and cup-holders will be given away. “The point is for everyone to
feel comfortable and welcome...I just hope it doesn’t rain.” If all works out, Petty hopes that the campus organizations will
plan something like this every spring. Buses from the Belk parking lot will be available for transportation. In the event
of rain, all activities will be held in Johnston Gym.
