8 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, MARCH 1, 1993

HARRISON ROBERTS - Editor in Chief
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Executive Editor
LEIGH RAWDON - Managing Editor
ALICE FELMLEE - News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL - Sports Editor
YVETTE PITA - Special Section Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor
MANDY CURTIS - Copy Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist

The Davidsonian
Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

LAURA DENNIS - Production Manager
BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS - Business Manager
ERIC SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

Eliminating Clusters Not the Key to Achieving Diversity

“The code of responsibility is based upon the belief that Davidson’s educational purpose can best be advanced in a context which emphasizes the responsible use of freedom, as opposed to license.” 
-Preamble to the Code of Responsibility

Freedom. Responsibility. License. A continuum of ideals that has perplexed American thinkers since the time of the framing of the Constitution. Where, in the world’s most complex society, does the government draw a line between the freedoms of its individual citizens and the laws it must impose to bring about the kind of order it desires? Davidson faces a similar dilemma. The founders of the college felt that the best environment in which the students would learn and mature was one in which they were free to make decisions for themselves while being held accountable for all their actions. Many times, administrations have found that the pursuit of the college’s goals and the students’ individual liberties are opposed to one another. Compromises must be made to reconcile the two.

This year, the College has picked diversity as the benchmark goal to pursue. The Residence Life Office’s announcement that clustering would be discontinued next year demonstrates that, in this case, student liberty is the clear loser. While RLO’s goals are obviously well-intentioned, the policy is misguided. Most students see diversity as a desirable goal; they elected the SGA Presidential candidate who ran on the diversity platform. However, students want to be assured that they can live with friends. RLO claims that students will still be able to live on the same halls with their friends. On paper, maybe. In reality, no one really knows if this will be possible. Students already feel that they have been left out of too many decisions that primarily affect them: shortening the exam period and implementing the Bonus Bucks system are just two examples. Many feel that the College is not responding to their needs and desires. Is it worth risking further student alienation in implementing a policy with questionable probability for success?

If the college is truly serious about achieving diversity, they might find that there are more effective means to do so while retaining the acceptance of the students. Building the new Union would be a way to bring students from all sections of the campus together for social and intellectual reasons. Of course, this is an expensive solution to the problem, but diversity itself need not be a problem. If, as it appears to be, the students do want diversity, they will find it on their own. How much sweeter would a discovered diversity be than one that is forced upon the College? In this case, the administration should not have to compromise student liberty in order to bring about their goals. There are many acceptable means to achieve diversity, but eliminating clusters is not one of them.

Congratulations

Special congratulations to the rugby team for beating Duke. It looks like yet another Davidson team is moving into the big-time. Keep up the good work.

Folks, I've decided being Opkst would be a waste of all of our time, but maybe a few of us in the last of the class disparaged and marveled at the discovery of our own unity. Maybe this beer will...

LETTERS

Curran Comments on Flag Issue

To the Editors,

Alex Crumbley’s thoughtful piece, “Should the Stars and Bars Fly on Davidson Campus?” raises some important questions for the Davidson community to consider at a time when many people on campus are talking about ways for Davidson to achieve a culturally diverse, but not divided, intellectual and social community. Even if the displaying of the Confederate battle flag is an act protected by the First Amendment, should a member of the Davidson community continue to do this when there are others here who see the flag as a symbol of a racist and divided past that is best laid to rest? What should a person do when her or his act of “self-expression” is offensive to other people in the community?

If the individuals did remove their Confederate flags from their dorm room windows as a result of Alex’s article, would they merely be kowtowing to the dictates of political correctness or showing genuine respect and concern for those people who see the flag as a symbol of racism that has no place at Davidson? Alex was right that what is at stake here is not political correctness or First Amendment rights. (Flying the Confederate flag is, of course, protected by the First Amendment.) Maintaining the right to...express our ideas and our values is vital to our flourishing as an academic and social community. But, as Alex notes, our individual acts of self-expression—including racist and segregationist ones—are to be upheld and esteemed. I have not been in doubt that, no matter how innocent the intentions are, symbols of a divided past are put on display at a time when it is most important that the values they represent remain long dead and buried.

Sincerely,
Angela Curran
Philosophy Department

Burt Responds to Kerns

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. We reserve the right to edit any letter we receive. Please limit letters to 300 words or less. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editors,

“Tim Kerns Disgusted by Fans” was one of the worst letters that I have ever read in The Davidsonian. That letter infuriated me so much I decided to take time out of my busy schedule to reply. First, I was not present at the UNCC game Wednesday. Jeff Hearle and I went to the women’s game at Western Carolina. Although the guys had a game that night, we had decided earlier that we were going to attend the women’s game, although it was away, to show true Davidson support.

Kerns asks why some students, including myself, constantly harass the officials. My answer is that if you ever paid attention in any type of sporting event, you would notice that hindsight is twenty-twenty. At the men’s Western Carolina game, while sitting on the bench, I sat back and listened to the fans for a change. I thought that the fans did a great job. Even one of the officials felt the same way. In Davidson’s game against Eastern Tennessee State, when one of the officials made a call that infuriated one of the fans, he looked into the stands and saw one of our fans chewing the other official’s head off and just laughed. He and many other officials realize that it is just a fun game and that there is no way you are going to please everyone.

The point is, although we do sometimes harass the officials, we all realize that it is just a game; one winner and one loser. Everywhere else I go, I guess those fans feel exactly as I do about school spirit. I guess that you have never gone to an ACC or NBA game. These players can’t shoot a free throw without a crowd of fans behind the basket either yelling “Brick!” or waving their arms. See, the problem with this school is that many of these dormant people, or so-called fans, who do get up the energy to go to the basketball games just sit there and don’t verbally cheer for our team at all. I know for a fact that the members of the basketball teams, male and female, would rather have those few fans that get off of their asses and cheer than to have those other fans that just sit there with no emotion.

One time during one of our crucial moments when we were in overtime with Georgia Southern, some of our so-called fans had the audacity to just sit there and ask me to sit down because they could not see. I’m not asking that every person yell at the top of their lungs. At least stand up and clap for the team. Here we are on a winning streak, and we're threatened in overtime. People, when the team is in overtime, they need all of the support that they can get; from the bench, the coach, and most important of all the fans. What most of you don’t know is that a powerful fan club can intimidate an opposing team.

Kerns says that we embarrass him when we are yelling out things. Well, these so-called fans, and when I say “so-called fans,” I am not talking about fans who don’t stand, or don’t yell, but the fans who had rather I sit down during a fast break so that they can see, is a total embarrassment when prospectives come onto this campus and see just how stuck up we act. It embarrassed me when a prospective asked, “Where are the other students?” Remember, it’s not the stupidity of the fans, but the courage of the fans to stand up and cheer for a team, even if they feel as if they were the only ones cheering. And I will always keep on cheering.

Sincerely,
Jason “Burt” Burt '95