9. THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS

For the past several years, the issue of the environment has leapt to the forefront of national and international news.
We elected a presidential ticket last year which included one of the country’s foremost environmentalist spokesmen, Al Gore. No one
is anti-environment, so the debates which surround such issues usually concern the specific measures we should take to preserve the
environment rather than the question of whether we should. Of course we should; we will not survive unless we do,
and what more basic objective is there than survival?

One facet of the great environmentalist awakening has bothered me, though, and raised ethical questions which create hot debates around
the world. Our responsibility to preserve the atmosphere and the water supply is clear, but what is our responsibility as
human beings to the other animals on the earth? People express their concern for animals in many ways, each revealing
a different philosophy on animal rights. Some refuse to eat meat; some just refuse to eat veal; some throw paint
on people’s fur coats; some even refuse to swat flies. What many of these people don’t realize is that by
throwing paint on furs, they actually help the business of the fur dealers by forcing the rich people to buy
new ones to replace the old ones some nut ruined. They also don’t realize that while they don’t eat meat,
the Birkenstocks that cushion their feet have leather straps on them.

I’m not trying to cut on people who believe in respecting animals’ lives, or on people who wear Birkenstocks. Though
some people are inconsistent in their support of animal rights, i.e. vegetarians who wear leather, they have every right to
eat and to wear what they want, and they don’t have to kill flies if it weighs heavy on their
consciences. What I do have a problem with is a person who tries to force his own conscience onto me,
i.e. by throwing paint on my fur coat, or just plain making me feel guilty for eating a piece of
meat. I understand wanting to preserve endangered species. But what about the other ones that aren’t endangered at all, like
cows or rabbits? We kill them for food, for their hides, for fun. Do humans have more right to life
than cows or rabbits? Of course, my answer is yes, because I am a human.

A major point of debate is the issue of animal research. I do not understand people who disapprove of doing
tests on rats and other animals to help save human lives later on. Testing them for trivial things such as
lipstick or mouthwash is questionable, but as for medical research, I think there is no doubt that we should. As
humans, we should look out for ourselves first. We care about other animals because our consciences stir when we see
animals who remind us of ourselves being harmed. It’s not that most people particularly respect their right for life; this
is obvious when we fumigate our homes and slaughter hundreds of innocent insects. We think an animal like a bear
is cute because it displays some sort of human quality, such as having a family or having chubby cheeks or
looking cuddly. They strike a note in our human minds, and we feel that we should protect them. Worms don’t
look cuddly, so most people don’t care about them.

From a Darwinian standpoint, no animal has a right to do anything. We just exist here, and we survive if
we are strong enough or smart enough to do it. It seems harsh, and it is. Rights are just something
we invented to make life easier for ourselves, to give other humans reason not to kill us in this game
of survival of the fittest. We project those rights onto other animals, but no other animals have a concept of
rights, so they do not really exist for them. By arguing for animal rights, we are not doing it for
the sake of the animals, but for the sake of our own consciences which promise to plague us if we
do not.

I read a story the other day about an animal rights activist who made a big name for herself politically
by advocating the rights of an endangered species of bears. During a photo opportunity at a park, one of the
bears broke through a fence and tore off her head. This simple story illustrates an important point; if you’re a
big animal rights activist, you’d better be doing it for your own reasons, because nature just doesn’t care.

Our self-centered view of nature is also evident in the slogan, “Save the Earth!” Let’s get one thing straight. If
the environment changes enough to kill off humanity, the earth will still be here, and other species of animals and
plants will adapt to the new situation fine. If you want to keep the environment the way it is, and
you should, then get off the “Save the Earth” and the “Save the Whales” idea, and say what needs to
be said more and more these days, “Save the Humans.”

Robert Ramsay

Perspectives on Christmas

This is the last Davidsonian for a while, so I thought I would cram my article full of varied ideas
and opinions so the readers would not face a provocative thought deficit over Christmas break. Kind of an opinions tree
hung with many ornaments. Or a journalistic gift filled with an assortment of thoughtful treasures. Or a nativity scene set
with numerous characters.

Hanging from...The strut of a Cessna at 6,000 feet is like transcending this world. I can see all of them
and believe me, there are plenty. Now that I think about it, height impresses me more. I suppose that is
why I enjoy skydiving so much. Hanging for what seems like millennia. Imagine the best feeling you have ever had
in your entire life, and it is undebatably surpassed by a perfect skydive. If you don’t believe me, come with
me sometime. It will make you a believer.

Sex impresses me. Not casual, forced, or codified sex that is so prevalent today, but the ideal sex that poets
write about, the kind of sex the Greek gods were supposed to have. The kind that may be better than
skydiving. Does anyone know what I am talking about? This reminds me of a poem that impresses me. It is
by Robert Herrick, and guys, if you memorize this for special occasions, you may learn what I am talking about.

Have ye beheld (with much delight)
A red rose peeping through a white?
Or else a cherry (double graced)
Within a lily center-placed?
Or ever marked the pretty beam
A strawberry shows half drowned in cream?
Or seen rich rubies blushing through
A pure smooth pearl, and orient too?
So like to this, nay all the rest,
Is each neat nipple of her breast.

Wow. Christmas impresses me. Now, I know that the “what Christmas means to me” theme is overdone. It really is
no one’s...

Etymologies reveal Paul's meaning
Classics continued from page 7

Males exchanged the natural function of intercourse for one contrary to nature.” 1:27 continues: “Similarly, males, putting aside the natural
function of intercourse with females, became inflamed in their lustful passion for one another, males accomplishing inappropriate behavior [aschemosune] among
males, and receiving wages which were necessary for their error [plane] among themselves.” As one can see from this translation,
the two words aschemosune and plane have meanings quite different from Grubb’s apparent paraphrase. Aschemosune is related to the word
aschemonein, which means “to behave improperly” or “to behave not according to the norm,” and also has the connotations of
nakedness. Our word “scheme,” meaning plan, comes from this word. Plane is commonly translated as “error, deception, or lie,” and
in the verb form means “to lead or go astray, to mislead, to be mistaken” or “to wander.” Here we
find the origin of our word “planet,” as the Greeks said that the planets “wandered” through the heavens. The common
translation “perversion” for this word in this verse, as in the Oxford Study Bible, seems to imply more than Paul
intended, and is another example of a moral projection which is not supported by the text.

Sincerely,
Classics 316: Brooke McRae ‘96
Chad Martin ‘96
Brett Marston ‘94
Amy Morrison ‘96
Drew Van Culin ‘95
Anne Zirkle ‘94

The meal plan is highway robbery
Food continued from page 7

If Vail truly is all you can eat, why can’t I eat my apple in Belk? Why can’t I fill
my Davidson Recycling cup with some Mello-Yello before I go to class? I’m not wasting it, I am consuming it.
The rule is, take all that you can eat; and I can eat the apple in question, so why the
controversy? From what I have heard around campus, the reason for this stingy policy is because students have taken advantage
of it. What does “taken advantage of” entail? Filling up a gallon of milk is taking advantage of the system.
Bringing in a cooler so you can take a box of ice cream bars is taking advantage of the system.
But is a 32-oz. cup of Mello-Yello and an apple going to bankrupt the school? I don’t think so. And
even if it was a problem of economics, take the eight to ten meals I miss a week and create
a special fund so students like me can have an extra apple or two.

Sincerely,
Patrick Montoya ‘97
