12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1993

Southern man
Young's music suits his image

Neil continued from page 10

Blind Melon and the Connells were the two opening acts. Unfortunately, I missed Blind Melon although I heard they only played for thirty minutes. The Connells played second, but I just caught the tail end of their performance. Never mind that. I came to see Neil Young, and I caught every note.

Neil strode confidently onto the stage, clad in a black t-shirt with an eagle design, Levi’s, and work-boots. He was backed up by Booker T and the M.G.’s, and although I had read in Rolling Stone that their presence gave the evening a soulful feel, I didn’t think anything really detracted from Neil’s characteristic style. The back-up band was very good; they reproduced his songs with great accuracy. I was glad that the music was harder than his most recent acoustic efforts, Harvest Moon and Unplugged. He opened with the hard-hitting classic “Mr. Soul” and went straight into an intense rendition of “The Loner.”

The North Carolina crowd went wild at the opening strains of “Southern Man,” as Neil carefully enunciated the lyrics: “Southern man better keep your head/ Don’t forget what your good book said/ Southern change gonna come at last/ Now your crosses are burnin’ fast.” He then moved over to the keyboard where he quietly played a staple from his Crosby, Stills & Nash days, the emotive “Helpless.” A disturbing “Like A Hurricane” was next, then “Motorcycle Mama,” a somewhat amusing track from the Comes A Time album. The next song was a depressing tune about lost love that nobody around me seemed to know. “Love to Burn” from the Ragged Glory CD followed this.

At this point, my friends and I were yelling for Neil to play “Powderfinger,” one of my favorite songs. Apparently, he was taking requests, because he strummed a powerful chord on his guitar and began the first lines: “Look out mama, there’s a white boat comin’ up the river.” We were in heaven. He fairly galloped across the stage as he pounded out the melody on his guitar. There seemed no end to Neil’s boundless energy but the audience needed a rest. The next few songs were softer and more subdued. “Only Love Can Break Your Heart,” a peaceful “Harvest Moon” and “Unknown Legend” from the most recent CD were his next offerings.

I was very impressed by “The Needle and the Damage Done,” his ironic account of a battle with drugs. But by far the highlight of the evening was the last song before the encore, the dark and upsetting “Down By the River,” another favorite of mine. “Be on my side, or be on your side,” the back-up singers sang over and over as Neil struck furious notes on his guitar.

For the encore, Young played “Sittin’ On the Dock Of the Bay,” backed up expertly by Booker T. and the M.G.’s. He finished with a forceful version of Bob Dylan’s “All Along the Watchtower,” which was very impressive. After the two-song encore, he left the stage for the last time. I can’t even describe how happy I was with the whole performance. I definitely enjoyed being in the 7th row, and felt like seeing him up close was so much better than watching him on a screen from the lawn. His lyrics are so sensitive and direct and he is quite a skillful guitarist. I was also amazed by his boundless energy.

THEATER/DANCE/MOVIES

Guys and Dolls. Former Broadway musical about the irrationality of love. Sep. 9-11, 16-18 at 8:15 p.m. and Sep. 19 at 2:30 p.m. Theatre Charlotte, 501 Queens Rd. Call 334-9128 for more information.

Strange Brew. Movie. Wed, Sept. 8 at 9:30 p.m. in 900 Room. Fri, Sep. 10 at 8 p.m. in 900 Room.

MUSEUMS/GALLERIES

Museum of the New South. Exhibits from “museum without walls” explore Piedmont history from 1877 to present. “Charlotte and the New South: A Region at Work,” an interactive exhibition about the area’s history of textiles, banking, and transportation. Call 333-1887 for more information.

Davidson College Art Galleries: North Main Street at Griffith Street, Davidson. Works by studio art professors Herb Jackson, Cort Savage, and Russ Warren, Sept. 10 through Oct. 31, 10-4 weekdays, 2-5 p.m. Saturdays-Sundays. Call 892-2185 for more info.

LECTURES/MEETINGS

Scott Thompson. Foreign Service Officer. “U.S. Policy in the Balkans.” 900 Room. Sponsored by Dean Rusk Program. Sep. 7, 7:30 p.m.

Project Life Meeting. Wed, Sep. 8 at 9 p.m. Big Screen Room.

En Route. Sponsored by Chaplains office. Nurturing of spirituality by meditating and reflecting on music, art, poetry & spiritual writings/traditions. Phi Hall upstairs. Thurs, Sep. 9 at 2 p.m.

MUSIC

Bob Margolin. Blues Monday. 900 Room, Sept. 6. 9:30 p.m.

Def Leppard with Ugly Kid Joe. Yuck. 7:30 p.m. Sep. 8 at Blockbuster Pavilion. Tickets $16 to $22.

Bob Dylan & Santana. Yes! 7:30 p.m. Sep. 17, Blockbuster Pavilion. Tickets $17-$24. Let’s see if Bob can still rock as hard as Neil.

Electrolux. Excellent local band that is receiving critics’ praise. Sep. 11. Milestone Club. 3400 Tuckaseegee Rd. Call 398-0472 for more information.

FESTIVALS/MISCELLANEOUS

Yiasou Greek Festival ’93. 11 a.m.-10 p.m. Sep. 9-11, noon-8 p.m. Sept. 12, Holy Trinity Greek Orthodox Cathedral, 600 East Blvd. Greek food including entrees and pastries, tours of cathedral, cultural displays and films, live music and dancing and more. Call 334-4771 for more info.

Garden Club Sale. Village Green. 9 a.m.-1 p.m. Sat, Sep. 11.

Vesper Service. 10 p.m. Sun, Sep. 12. in the 900 Room.

Coffeehouse. Tues, 8:30 a.m.-11:00 a.m. in 900 Room.

21 Year Old Night. Sep. 7 at 10:30 p.m. in 900 Room.He didn’t seem to tire but continued to stomp around the stage like a young man of twenty. I can’t think of any concrete reasons why Neil Young should be cast in The Bridges of Madison County. It’s just a feeling. Like Robert Kincaid, “his silver-grey hair hung well below his ears and nearly always looked disheveled, as if he had just come in from a long sea voyage through a stiff wind and had tried to brush it into place with his hands.” Appearances are insignificant to Neil, who has more important things to think about than his looks. Something about his careless, weather-beaten appearance suggests that Neil has seen a lot and could tell you plenty of stories. You can see yourself sitting on a porch with Neil as he skillfully whittles a birch bark canoe with his Swiss Army Knife and shares some pearls of wisdom. Unlike a lot of his contemporaries, he made it through a near devastating spiral into drug addiction. But he survived, and is still writing innovative music and delivering during performances. It wasn’t a has-been concert full of old, recycled hits. Young’s performance was full of intensity and creativity, and a fierce independence that comes through in every song. I feel lucky to have seen him live. And maybe he won’t get the role as Robert Kincaid, but that’s alright. The real Robert Kincaid wouldn’t have been in a movie either.

Rodin sculpture hits the visual arts center

Rodin continued from page 10

completing a clothed version. It is for this reason that Jean d’Aire has such an unusual stance. His outstretched fists are clenched to hold the bonds he carried in surrendering himself to the English army. These and other elements not directly related to the body itself, including sackcloth clothing, were added in the later six-figure monument. While the piece is a study, it should by no means be considered a mere sketch. It is a complete work in and of itself. Rodin’s Burghers of Calais represents a major innovation in the history of sculpture. Previously, monuments had been placed on high pedestals as a way of enhancing the importance and status of the subject matter. Rodin eliminated this high pedestal and asked that his work appear in the common marketplace rather than in the center of town, thus destroying the physical and psychological distance between the viewer and the men who saved the town of Calais. Also of interest is the “7/8” symbol found on the base of the sculpture between the figure’s feet. This mark tells us that the piece is the seventh in a series of eight exactly like the one here in Davidson. Rodin made his sculptures from molds, from which he then authorized a certain number of originals to be made. This fact explains why one might see the same sculpture in more than one place. For example, another Jean d’Aire piece stands in the Rodin Museum in Paris. Albert Elsen, a prominent art historian and authority on the work of Rodin, will be giving a public lecture here at Davidson on Thursday, November 4 for those who would like to know more about Rodin. Those who are art majors will be given the opportunity to attend a seminar with Elsen which will focus on the Jean d’Aire piece in particular.

Collegiate Crossword

ACROSS
1 Where one might study Andy Warhol's works (3 wds.)
10 Traveled on a Flexible Flyer
12 Enrollment into the Star
14 "Calculus Made Simple," e.g. (2 wds.)
16 Evaluate
17 Extremely small
18 Follows a recipe direction
19 Belonging to Mr.
22 Of land measure
23 Meets a poker bet
24 —— Gay (WW II plane)
28 Well-known government agency
29 American league team (abbr.)
30 Fictional hypnotist
32 Style exemplified by Picasso
35 Visible receiver
36 Think
37 Woman's undergarment
38 Commit ——-kiri
39 College in Greenville, Pa.
40 The Venerable ——
42 BS
43 Return on investment (abbr.)
44 Pondered
45 Belonging to Mr.
46 African antelope
47 Well-known TV bandleader
48 Possible place to study abroad (2 wds)
49 pince-—— (eyeglass type)
50 1968 film, "—— Station Zebra"
51 1965 film, "—— Ryan's Express"
52 Small school in Canton, Ohio (2 wds.)
53 Orson Welles film classic (2 wds.)

DOWN
1 Those who are wiped out
2 "Do unto ——..."
3 Fourth estate
4 Goals
5 Well-known record label
6 Well-known king
7 151 to Caesar (LI)
8 Prefix meaning milk
9 Confused (2 wds.)
11 Most immediate
12 Like a sailboat
13 Appeal
14 En — (as a whole)
15 Auto racing son of Richard Petty
19 Political disorder
20 —— cit. (footnote abbreviation)
21 Traveled on a Flexible Flyer
24 Glorify
25 Prospero's servant in "The Tempest"
26 Capri, e.g.
27 Belonging to Mayor Koch
28 Irritate or embitter
30 Train for a boxing match
31 —— and the Belmonts
32 Processions
33 "She's ——..." (from "Flashdance")
34 Be unwell
35 Diet supplement (abbr.)
36 Think
37 Woman's undergarment
38 Scottish historian and philosopher
40 —— burner
42 BS
43 Return on investment (abbr.)
44 Actress Gibbs
46 African antelope
47 Well-known TV bandleader
49 pince-—— (eyeglass type)
50 1968 film, "—— Station Zebra"
51 1965 film, "—— Ryan's Express"