12 THE DAVIDSONIAN _OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1993

Despite rumors to the contrary, some of your parents were once young. Over forty years ago and 400 miles to
the north, I inflicted on my unsuspecting classmates the first “Gull’s Nest” (as tacky a title then as it is
today). As its inheritor, Bill has been good enough to let me fill in for him from time to time
(a sort of “Family Circus” in reverse), even though I sometimes quote Democrats and, long ago, outgrew my craving for
tobacco. I’m obliged to the editors of The Davidsonian for going along with this. Parents Weekend seems an appropriate time.

Alas, Davidson does not yet enjoy quite the recognition in our environs that it has held for so long in
the South. My wife Betsy and I are still bemused by friends who ask how Bill likes “Denison” or “Dickinson”
or whatever. That’s fine. As things are going, by the end of this century, Davidson will be harder to get
into than Harvard. Success presents its own challenges. A lot of us may have made it just in time. And
yet as this college becomes more truly national, and indeed international, each year, I still strongly suspect that it has
changed remarkably little in terms of anything that really matters—that old grads would recognize the outlines of the same verities.

Any clergyman will tell you that the newly converted can be more visibly devout than birthright believers. To me, as
the oldest (dare we say “chronologically challenged?”) member of a new Davidson family, perhaps the most significant thing about Davidson
is the deceptively simple conclusion that it really is what it purports to be. In the Watergate hearings, John Erlichman,
debating some document, asked of the venerable chairman, Senator Sam Ervin, “How did you come to that conclusion?” Ervin replied
in a level voice I can still hear, “Because it was written in English, and English is my native tongue.”
Unadorned English is not the native tongue of much of academia today. I believe it still is at Davidson.

Honor is not subject to qualification. Of course, we all share a common imperfectibility, but one can no more be
selectively honorable than partially pregnant. It seems to me that is why, for example, it is peculiarly challenging here to
evolve a new alcohol policy that merges common sense with the limits of the law. At other colleges, this is
difficult enough; at Davidson, it requires a Solomon-like resolution with honor.

While no one comes to Davidson with the expectation that it will be easy, there are surely other rewards. Just
before driving down to “Discover Davidson” in the spring of 1992, I happened to glance at the national magazine of
my own fraternity, Sigma Chi. Its theme was on the unlikely subject of “diversity.” I don’t remember much diversity in
any dimension when I was an undergraduate at my own college. In any case, among the pivotal dates cited was
1967. In that year, our Davidson chapter decided to go local, at least in part because they intended to pledge
a black student. It’s pretty clear that the sense of inclusion is not a recent development at Davidson.

When you’re next at the Carnegie

Pop art cover intended to inspire laughter & thought

Jerry continued from page 9

We stopped short, however, of actually explaining the punchline about “Sam.” Of course, there are many other contexts in which
to view this image or any other image, including personal context, our own interior history that each of us brings
to any image that we look at. Allow me to illustrate my point with a personal example. My only other
direct reaction to the cover came from Sherburne Laughlin '83, current President of the Alumni Association and one of the
organizers of the recent campus celebration of 20 Years of Coeducation. Every year we hand out the new directories at
the October trustee meeting. I personally handed a copy to Sherburne, who had no prior explanation or discussion about the
cover. Sherburne took one look at it, burst out laughing, and said, “Great cover! Thanks for doing this.” You’re welcome,
Sherburne. Thanks for having a sense of humor.

But as I think back on Sherburne’s reaction in light of this question of personal context, it makes a lot
of sense. First, I have known Sherburne since she was a student and have worked with her on several projects
through the years. I like her and I think she likes me. She knows me well enough to know how
I feel about coeducation and women’s issues. Second, I think Sherburne understood the visual reference to Pop Art and third,
I know she immediately understood the reference to Sam Spencer. Put that all together, and her spontaneous reaction of laughter
and appreciation makes sense.

As to Professor Kaylor’s reaction to the cover, I simply do not understand it no matter how hard I try.
I have looked at the cover every which way including upside down and I can’t see what he sees in
the image. If it were a Beatles album I would put it on a turntable and play it backwards to
hear if it whispered “Paul is dead” or “Girls are yucky” or “We don’t want them here” but that can’t
be done. I have tried to imagine the personal context in which he views the cover, but I can’t do
that either. The whole thing remains a mystery to me.

The Davidson Context

As for negative reactions from students, I can understand that more readily. In terms of personal context, very few students
know who I am or who Mike is, so they can’t use that as a contextual clue. And how many
are aware of the Pop Art phenomenon of the late sixties? Probably very few, for the style came and went
before they were even born. And how many would understand the line about “Sam”? Admittedly, very few again. So I
can understand if some students were initially confused or upset by the cover. But I hope they will not be
carried away by their emotions, but can instead turn this into a learning experience. We live and work and play
in this laboratory for the liberal arts we call Davidson. And we often describe ourselves as a community, and we
are, but at times it is a contentious one. Ample evidence for this can be found on the pages of
the Davidsonian week after week, where the level of civil discourse is not always so civil. In fact, I understand
that there has been considerable campus discussion of the cover this pastweek. Nina Serebrennikov tells me that she used it
as an example in a lecture on “Images of Women in Art and Advertising” and that it generated considerable debate.
I believe this is good, so long as these discussions generate more light than heat, for that represents the very
best spirit of intellectual and spiritual inquiry which is essential to this liberal arts community. I wish we could take
credit for doing the telephone directory cover in order to stimulate a high-level campus debate on images of women in
American culture, but again I can’t. Our goal really was more simple — we were just trying to have some
fun. Some may now say, Okay, I still don’t think it’s funny. Fine. I don’t ask that you share our
sense of humor. I do ask that you not jump to conclusions and assume that we must be malicious or
incredibly naive, or heaven help us, politically incorrect. In other words, please lighten up. It’s only humor; it won’t hurt
you.

Had it even in make it think: Guest House (is there a more agreeable place to stay on campus?), take
a look at the 1970 yearbook on the second floor hall table. Not all those fraternities are still at Davidson,
but hopefully Saturday night at Patterson Court will always have the aspect of a neighborhood block party open to all.
It seems to me I read somewhere last spring that there is more that unites than divides you. A new
College Union will only enhance all this, not replace it. Bear in mind that the architect of the Visual Arts
Center is noted for his renovations. Anyone energetic enough to attempt Davidson shouldn’t find any place on this spacious campus
all that inconvenient.

One can learn a great deal by reading letters to The Davidsonian. At the height of this “apathy” business last
year, a student wrote that, after swimming and studying, he simply didn’t have time for very much else. It’s sad
it’s so. Anyone smart enough to be admitted to Davidson has the capacity to organize his or her own time
so that a great many activities can be accommodated. However, if you’ll permit a modicum of pontification, I think it
is worth stressing that life is infinitely more than a series of tasks to be performed. A lot of the
fun in attending even the most selective of colleges should be spontaneous. If life were fully explicable, all the cool
freshmen wouldn’t be in Watts Hall every year. Moreover, I believe it was Socrates who suggested that the unexamined life
isn’t worth living. (Bear with me; I didn’t have the advantage of Humes.) No one arrives at so advanced a
chronology as mine without affirming that the most enduring experiences of college were outside the classroom—and with a faculty so
accessible as yours, some of the best teaching, as well.

Perhaps my most vivid memory of our family’s first year as members of the Davidson community derives from last fall’s
Convocation. Seated up on the balcony steps with Ross Lenhart, we heard the words of a Southern writer and poet
named Reynolds Price. No one who was there will likely forget it. Price delivered not so much an address as
a recitation of poetry—everything from his remote kinsman John Milton to some of his own. I am embarrassed to say
I knew nothing of Price. Subsequently, my wife, who is both more literate and more erudite than I am, was
good enough to bring me some of his work. Even more than the fiction, I was impressed by Price’s reminiscences
of his childhood, in a book called Clear Pictures. While ailing, Price notes that he has already lived longer than
had his own father, Will, and concludes in this way: “So I sit at this desk most days still, older
than Will managed to be, in more or less steady thanks to them and a small clutch of others for
basic training in independence, dependence, hunger, feeding, fireworks, and damage control, alive at creation and its hid guardian. Maybe I
see that the aim of their schooling was something as nearly impossible as courtesy. Courtesy in the broad continuous sense,
not the merely polite.”

Courtesy. Civility. Cooperation. Community. When you finally enter that “real world” outside, I hope it doesn’t sound excessively naive to
suggest that you might brighten some corner of it with what you brought to Davidson, and what Davidson gave to
you.

The library is a microcosm Rick continued from page 10 the core of Davidson. What you see here is what
really lies beneath those social first floor exteriors and the playing-at-studying but really doing other things under layer of the
second floor. Down here there are barely any windows to what’s going on “out there.” Even the newspapers are old.
All the carrels are full of people who are actually studying. They even have that look on their face. Very
few walkmans. Should that be walkmen? Very little conversation. This is what Davidson is all about; a bunch of individuals
studying their khaki-clad butts off so they can get a good job. If you go down there and really look,
you can actually see a few butts, wrapped in swaddling J. Crew cloth, just rolling around. For all their big
talk about taking a test cold or writing a paper the morning of, this is what people at Davidson do.
They descend into their own little world, cram their heads with soon-to-be-forgotten facts and notions, then they get out before
that crazy siren goes off.

Directories are far from "travesty" Phone continued from page 8 this good-natured parody is so funny—or indeed works at all.
“Pop Art is liking things,” Andy Warhol is reported to have said; “The things that I have apparently parodied I
actually admire,” Lichtenstein insisted. And surely Errol Gibson, like the pop artist Roy Lichtenstein his design so cleverly invokes, intends
what any artist intends—to present a subject in an unforeseen way that allows the viewer to engage with the subject
and perceive it anew. The gulfs of gender between human beings like all other gulfs between selves are real and
Professor Kaylor is right to remind us of the way our language and images can subvert our best efforts to
bridge them. The images we see of ourselves do matter, but laughter does too. To this viewer, at least, the
cover of the new telephone directory is funny, engaging, more than a little reminiscent of the Lichtenstein poster on my
own dorm room wall 25 years ago—and bright enough to find amid the debris on my desk. I like it.

Sincerely,
Gail M. Gibson
Kenan Professor of English and Humanities
