THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1993

NEWS

Alcohol

Continued from page 1

women, house members, independents, and minorities. Mary Katherine Gregory, a member of the committee, said that the restricted number of weekday parties is “putting a barrier on our freedom.” Alice Spivey, also a member of the committee, agreed that students “should be able to have that flexibility.”

The positive results reported by the SGA Ad-Hoc committee, which included Patterson Court Advisor, Kurt Holmes, mentioned the elimination of hard liquor from “open” court parties. According to Spivey, Holmes serves as a “nice liaison between Dean Terry and the houses on the court.” The committee agreed that the hard liquor ban has stopped students from unintentionally becoming over-intoxicated by grain alcohol punch.

Having addressed the positive and negative results of the alcohol policy, the SGA Ad-Hoc committee made recommendations to make changes. They suggested new formats of the alcohol policy and for alcohol education, student monitors for safety purposes, consistent police enforcement, a two-cup rule for legal drinkers to be able to exit with two beverages, and the elimination of weekday party restrictions.

The committee hopes that the amendments to the alcohol policy will stop drunk driving that has been a result of students going off campus to “party.” Catherine Turner, member of the committee, said, “We’re not in Boston where we can walk back from a bar.” The committee also hopes that changes will stop students from “slamming” hard liquor in their rooms due to the lack of opportunity to drink socially on the court.

The full report by the SGA Ad-Hoc committee will be reviewed by Dean Terry and the Council for Campus and Religious Life who will then make recommendations to the Trustees of the college. The Trustees will then approve or reject the changes in April. According to Edmonston, changes, if approved, will be implemented in the fall of ‘93.

Edmonston said, “I feel that this [the report] represents what the students want. No matter what happens, this represents a lot of work- if nothing else, the policy will be clearer next year.” Gregory said, “We worked really hard on the report and we hope something will come out of it.”

Anthony Foxx made his final Trustee address. He discussed inclusiveness on campus and the need for a new college union. He introduced his successor, Alden Smith.

Smith said, “Anthony has paved the way for increased communication between students and the Trustees."

JEWELRY

Southlake Center (Harris Teeter Shopping Center)

Valentine's Special Sterling Silver Charms From $3.99

15% OFF for any student with Davidson College I.D. PLUS an additional 15% off with this ad in addition to any other advertised discounts! Open Sunday Valentine's Day: 12:00 till 5:00 TOTAL DIAMOND ACCESS

Customer Satisfaction #1 Store Hours Mon.-Fri. 10-8 Sat. 10-5 Sun. 1-5 All forms of jewelry repair performed by a NC licensed jeweler. 704/896-7708

DAVIDSON OUTDOORS

Register for any scheduled trip at the Union Information Desk. Full payment is required to hold your space. Call -2623 for details.

LEARN TO ROLL A KAYAK Interested in kayaking? Learning to roll is an important first step, and we'll make it easy for you. Davidson Outdoors is running free kayak rolling sessions at Baker from 7 to 8:30pm every Thursday. Beginners please come at 7:00, if you already have a basic roll please come at 7:45. If you bring a boat, please clean it thoroughly beforehand.

1993 SPRING SEMESTER TRIP CALENDAR

FEBRUARY
Friday 5th Afternoon Mountain Biking at Beech Spring. $5
Saturday 6th Caving trip to southern Virginia. $20
Saturday 13th Overnight Winter Backpacking trip to western NC. Sunday 14th $25
Friday 19th Afternoon Mountain Biking at South Mountains State Park. $10
Saturday 20th Afternoon Bouldering trip to Egg Rock Woods. $3
Friday 26th Afternoon Mountain Biking at Beech Spring. $5

MARCH
Friday 5th Afternoon Mountain Biking at York Road Park. $2
Saturday 6th Caving trip to southern Virginia. $20
Sunday 7th Rock Climbing at Crowder's Mountain. $13
Sunday 28th Rock Climbing at Crowder's Mountain. $13
Sunday 28th Whitewater Rafting on the Nolichucky River. $40

SPRING BREAK TRIPS MARCH 12TH - 21ST
Everglades Canoe Expedition price TBA
Cumberland Island Backpacking price TBA
Snorkeling in the Florida Keys price TBA
Whitewater Kayaking Course price TBA

APRIL
Friday 9th Afternoon Mountain Biking at South Mountains State Park. $10
Sunday 11th Whitewater Rafting on the Nolichucky River. $40
Sunday 11th Rock Climbing at Crowder's Mountain. $13

No prior experience is required to participate in any Davidson Outdoors trip. Any questions? Want to set up your own trip? Call -2623!

CLIMBING WALL HOURS
Monday 7pm to 10pm
Tuesday 7pm to 10pm
Wednesday 7pm to 10pm*
Thursday 7pm to 10pm
Friday Closed
Saturday Closed
Sunday 2pm to 5pm

*Orientation for first time visitors. Call -2623 for more information.