12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1993

Santana and Dylan bring back the glory days without the glory

By Rachel Newcomb

It’s nice to attend an outdoor concert on a clear summer night. Enjoying the sunset and the warm weather from
the parking lot before the concert really puts you in a great mood for the upcoming show. Unfortunately, this was
not the case with the September 17th Bob Dylan/Santana concert at Blockbuster Pavilion. You could feel the beginnings of fall
creeping in, and the sky had been an ominous, depressing shade of gray all day. Finally, a torrential downpour followed
us all the way to the Pavilion. I had seats underneath the roof, but that didn’t stop me from getting
completely drenched.

All weather complaints aside, I was ready for a great show to pull me out of a bad mood. In
the end, I had mixed feelings. Bob Dylan has been touring incessantly for the past few years. He has a
reputation for being very unpredictable in concert, and I’ve heard people complain of going to see him and not getting
their money’s worth. I feel lucky to have been able to hear him live; but I must say I wasn’t
floored like I was at the Neil Young concert a month ago.

Dylan opened the set with a song from his new album that I enjoyed. He stood nearly motionless on stage,
looking up from time to time from his guitar. I don’t remember the exact order of the songs, but his
next few selections were definitely some of his more popular hits. One thing Dylan seems fond of is changing the
arrangements of his music so that the songs aren’t easily identifiable at first. “Stuck Inside of Mobile With the Memphis
Blues Again” opened with a different arrangement and it wasn’t until he began to sing that I recognized it. He
then played “Just Like A Woman” and the classic “All Along the Watchtower.”

Dylan next played “She Belongs to Me” and “Tangled Up in Blue,” two of my all-time favorite songs. I was
pleased that Dylan clearly enunciated the poignant lyrics of “She Belongs To Me:” “She’s got everything she needs, she’s an
artist, she don’t look back/ She can take the dark out of the nighttime, and paint the daytime black.” “Tangled
Up in Blue” was barely recognizable at first, and almost sounded like a high-speed version of the song once Dylan
started singing. I liked it, though. For his last song, Dylan sang “Boots of Spanish Leather,” and for the encore,
“Ballad of a Thin Man.”

The back-up band was very good, and they knew the material very well. They were obviously able to follow any
twists and turns Dylan took during the course of his performance. Although I’ve heard people say that Dylan mumbles his
lyrics, I was able to understand most of what he had to say. I don’t have a copy of his
new album yet, but the songs he played from it were both creative and musically fresh. His voice surprised me
at how raw it was. Granted, Dylan has a very distinct voice, but it sounded rougher and more strangled than
it does on his albums. The main problem I had was that I felt Dylan’s set lacked energy. Everything seemed
very routine, and although his guitar and harmonica playing was good, it didn’t have the spark I was hoping for.were
excellent, he didn’t seem very excited to be playing. I guess from a man who plays 120 concert dates a
year, this is to be expected. Maybe a vacation is in order. Carlos Santana learned “mariachi” violin and guitar at
a very young age while living in Mexico. In the early 1960s, he moved with his family to San Francisco,
where he honed his musical skills and formed the Santana Blues Band. Since then, he has been an innovative and
prolific artist. It is hard to describe Santana’s music; it draws from a strange combination of influences ranging from the
blues to Latin music. Without question, he is an amazing guitarist. I’ve never been a huge Santana fan but I
enjoyed the concert immensely. The set design was the most interesting I’ve ever seen. A huge mural, filled with folk-art
paintings of colorful people, covered the back wall of the stage. Little paintings were everywhere—in front of the many drum
kits, the keyboards, etc. The Santana band was big and cheerful. They made up for some of the energy that
Bob lacked. I won’t say much about them except that I was extremely impressed. Santana’s music is very distinct—a unique
mix of skillful guitar playing, Latin music, jazz, and blues. I plan to start listening a little closer to his
music from now on. For the most part, I enjoyed the concert. I felt very grateful to have had the
opportunity to see Bob Dylan live. There is no doubt that he is one of the most influential songwriters and
performers of the past thirty years. With his eclectic lyrics and enigmatic persona, he is definitely a living legend. I
wasn’t overly satisfied by his performance, but it was a decent show. Santana, on the other hand, succeeded in bringing
me out of the bad mood that the rain had put me in. With the exception of a few rambling
songs, it was a very well put together set. All in all, it was a once in a lifetime opportunity
to see two musical legends in the same concert. I can’t say I was disappointed.

---

Ensure safe driving. Our drivers are [Call Us! 896-8007]

---

On the Green - Cornelius

STORE HOURS: 4pm-12 midnight

NEW ADDITIONS: Twisty Bread, Salad, Cheddar Cheese

Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable.
Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Penalized for late deliveries. ©1993 Domino's Pizza Inc.

---

LATE NITE SPECIAL

MEAL DEAL

$9.99

Order 10 - Close

Sunday-Thursday only

LARGE CHEESE PIZZA

* Additional Toppings 50¢ each

* ORDER OF TWISTY BREAD

* 2 QT. PKG. OF KOOL-AID

Coupon expires 10/3/93

---

2 FOR 1 MONDAY ONLY

2 MEDIUM PIZZAS FOR THE PRICE OF 1 LARGE

Coupon expires 10/3/93

---

$8.99 DEEP DISH

FREE TWISTY BREAD

WITH PURCHASE OF ANY LARGE PIZZA

Coupon expires 10/3/93

---

LARGE PIZZA FOR THE PRICE OF A MEDIUM

Coupon expires 10/3/93

---

FREE TWISTY BREAD

WITH ANY MEDIUM PIZZA WITH TWO OR MORE TOPPINGS

$10.99

Coupon expires 10/3/93

---

THURSDAY ONLY

2 LARGE 1 TOPPING PIZZAS

$14.99

Additional toppings $1.50 each

DELIVERY AREA LIMITED TO INSURE SAFE DRIVING. LIMITED TIME ONLY ©1993 DOMINO'S PIZZA INC. PARTICIPATING STORES ONLY

---

2 FOR 1

Coupon expires 10/3/93
