THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1993

PiKA ready to get back to basics
By Mandy Curtis

The Pi Kappa Alpha house at Davidson reopens this week after having been closed due to repairs. The PiKA house was closed by the physical plant at the college for the first three weeks of school. According to Patterson Court Advisor Kurt Holmes, the PiKA house was shut down due to a series of repairs that needed to be done after an “accumulative effect of damages over the last year.” Because PiKA tends to have many parties throughout the year, there are more damages that require regular maintenance. The house was not on social probation, as many people mistakenly assumed. According to Holmes, closing the house was a way the administration felt would deter the situation from happening again.

Dean Terry notified PiKA president Ryan Harper and treasurer Jason Bradley that the house would be closed at the beginning of school in the first week of August. However, Terry did give the PiKAs the chance to remedy many of the problems themselves. Before classes began, brothers of the house worked summer nights and weekends doing various work on the house. Among the members helping the physical plant was coordinator Braulio Lopez who did much of the work. According to Holmes, the PiKA guys have been very responsible in their response to the problems; they have been prompt in paying for much of the repairs, as well as pitching in to do a lot of the work.

Among the repairs that needed to be done to the house were repainting the walls and putting down new tiling. The brothers painted the lower portion of the walls in a combination of garnet and gold coloring, giving the house a more personal touch, according to Holmes. “The building means something now,” says Holmes.

Harper says that a lot of positive energy has come out of the situation. “It was good for the house; we needed to wake some of us up and change our general attitude towards the house and the campus,” says Harper. Since the PiKAs have been out of their house, they have been eating in the Commons and, just in the last week, at Warner Hall. According to Harper, this proves that there is a lot of cohesiveness on the court between the fraternities and eating houses.

Photo by Laura Dennis
The PiKA house has been closed, but with a lot of work and money, the brothers will begin eating there again soon.

PiKA’s national charter recently reviewed the house, and gave the organization better ratings than have been given to Davidson’s PiKA house in the past 25 years, according to Harper. The guys have set up committees and will be doing more community service this year. Harper says that they are very “enthusiastic.” The PiKAs will be eating in their house this week and plan to have a party this weekend.

Thomas Schoenbaum aims to clear up popular misconceptions
Speaker discusses Japanese-U.S. economic, political relations

Photo by Brook McRae for College Relations
Thomas Schoenbaum, Executive Director of the University of Georgia Law School's Dean Rusk Center, spoke in the 900 Room Tuesday night. He emphasized the need for cooperation and a healthy competitive spirit between the U.S. and Japan.

By Jay Jennings

On September 14, the Dean Rusk program sponsored a talk on Japan-United States relations by Thomas Schoenbaum. The intent of the talk was to educate the audience and clear up some of the general misconceptions about political and economic relations that exist in the minds of many people. Schoenbaum is the executive director of the Rusk Center at the School of Law at the University of Georgia. This center is the only other Rusk program in the U.S. besides Davidson College. He hasspent time in Japan and through his work in the legal field has been kept informed on United States-Japan economic relations. Schoenbaum emphasized that the United States and Japan must work together on a permanent joint commission to resolve disputes to improve the economic relations between the two countries. Ever since the early 1980s, the United States’ trade deficit has grown significantly with Japan. Most people see Japan as the U.S.’s biggest enemy in the world today, according to Schoenbaum. He described a “Mercantile Predator State” to express the feelings of these people. These same people feel that Japan is very different in the way they conduct their business. Japan is the United States’ largest overseas business partner and is important for the economic structure of the United States. Thus, viewing Japan as an enemy is inaccurate, according to Schoenbaum. The joint commission will serve the purpose of dealing with problems as they arise and not allowing the two countries to become polarized. Schoenbaum hopes that Americans will realize that the trade deficit does not mean as much as we think in the scale of world economics. The United States should husband and cherish the Japanese relationship, according to Schoenbaum. The competition that the Japanese provide is essential to keep American manufacturers honest. In the early eighties, the U.S. government limited the number of Japanese imports. The United States and Japan have met often in the last decade to try to correct the problems between the countries. Each time, an agreement is reached, but the effects have been very limited. The agreements resolve the small problems and do not touch on the big ones, according to Schoenbaum.

First Night Down symbolizes the beginning of rush. Court continued from page 1. Court symbolizes “the official kick-off to rush,” explains Petty. Dean Terry feels that the excitement of the freshmen’s presence on the Court will not encompass any problems because “the court is so boring... There is the same format for every party and play has become work,” Terry explains. He expresses that there has been no momentum build-up for this particular weekend and therefore there is really nothing to worry about. However, hall counselors and freshmen take a different stand. Hall counselor, Christy Rikard, says that, “this past week my girls have been bored and they are ready and excited to see what Patterson Court is all about.” She and hall counselor John Philpott agree that the three weeks the freshmen have had to wait have been helpful. “This policy has allowed my guys to get to know their hall and form a common community where everybody is experiencing the same thing,” Philpott remarks. Rikard comments that this policy allowed the girls to realize there are other activities on campus besides Patterson Court. Freshman Geoff Eloge expresses his excitement for first night down: “I am tired of the dorm room social situation and ready to meet and socialize with upperclassmen.” Freshman Jay Parkinson agrees with Eloge, “This freshmen scene has just gotten old.” Before the freshmen plunged onto Patterson Court at 9:00 p.m., the Union’s Freshmen-crew and Intimate Performances sponsored a Reggae Fest featuring “Swan-the-ology” behind Vail Commons. Freshmen gathered to hear the reggae band and eat free food before venturing into “the mystic unknown,” as John Philpott described the freshmen perspective of Patterson Court.

LAKE NORMAN OYSTER BAR AND PUB
"A New Dining Experience"
Fresh Oysters
We Shuck ‘Em, You Suck 'Em
Full Menu includes sandwiches, steaks, and salads
Daily Drink Specials
Live Entertainment Friday and Saturday in the pub
Friday, Sept. 24 - Part Time Blues Band
Saturday, Sept. 25 - Michael Riley and Friends
Watch all your favorite sports on our Big Screen TVs
892-4811
HWY 73, Cornelius - Magnolia Shopping Center

The Davidsonian | Campus News that can't be beat! Call Mandy -6252.