4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1993

ROTC field training exercises held at Ft. Jackson
By Eythan Sontag

While most students spent their fall break relaxing and studying, Davidson’s ROTC cadets completed their most intensive training event of
the fall semester. Davidson joined UNC Charlotte and Catawba College for the annual Field Training Exercise (FTX) in Fort Jackson,
South Carolina, where cadets were given the opportunity to hone military skills such as land navigation, rifle marksmanship, and rappelling.

In addition to enhancing military tasks proficiency, the training was designed to acquaint cadets with Army living and decorum and
develop the leadership skills of juniors who will be going off to Advanced Camp next summer. “Staying in the barracks
and eating at the mess halls gave us all good insight into how the real Army operates,” said junior David
Rozelle. He added, “Being in a position of leadership while under the stress of constant evaluation from the seniors and
cadre really teaches you discipline, time management, and problem analysis. I loved it.”

The weekend’s itinerary was divided into competitions between the eight squads of cadets. The activities included a barracks inspection which
required vigorous cleaning Friday night and Saturday morning, rifle marksmanship, obstacle courses that involved rappelling, climbing, and rope swings and
bridges; a 10-kilometer timed road march, and finally a Drill and Ceremony competition which tested third-year ROTC cadets’ ability to
correctly give commands and march troops. Though competition was fierce, every event was intended to build confidence and teamwork.

Several Davidson cadets were given awards at the end of the weekend for their exceptional demonstration of leadership, motivation, and
enthusiasm. They included freshman Tom Vanderbloemen, sophomore Mark Wittschen, and junior G.A. “Red Rooster” McClung. “All in all the FTX
was both very tiring and exciting,” said junior Pat Malcor. “We learned a lot about different aspects of military life
and how to plan and organize under time constraints. Most important, though, we were all able to get away from
the books for a weekend and just have some fun.”

By Rachel Dunifon

The "Little Emperor," an escaped convict, and an opera singer were all guests of honor at a Davidson gourmet dinner.
One hundred and fifty students, faculty, and staff mingled in Vail Commons Wednesday night for the fall meeting of the
Gourmet Society dinner. Titled “An Evening With Napoleon,” the evening featured French cuisine, as well as music, some history, and
a special guest appearance.

The purpose of the society, which meets each fall and spring, is to “develop an awareness and appreciation of fine
dining,” among any member of the college community wishing to participate. After enjoying an appetizer of champagne and pâté, guests
found their seats. Gourmet Society Committee member Brian Tarr then introduced Dan Boye of the physics department, who honored Napoleon’s
love for the opera by singing selections from two pieces.

Members of the society turned their attention again to food, enjoying a first course of scallops in phyllo. This was
followed by tortellini soup, served with white wine, for those of age. After guests cleansed their palate with sorbet, Tarr
returned to the podium to give the audience a little biographical information about Napoleon. He was joined by “the Little
Emperor” himself, and the two revealed a little-known story about Napoleon’s connection to Davidson College. It is suspected that Davidson’s
own Peter Stuart Ney, donor of the chandelier found in Phi Hall, was actually Napoleon aide Marshall Ney, who eluded
his executioners in France and escaped to the United States, ending up in Davidson. Tarr proposed a toast to Ney.Davidson’s
only connection to the man who once brought nearly all of Europe under his control. Guests then partook of the
meal’s main course, consisting of grilled swordfish, green beans, and polenta, along with French rolls and a salad. The feast
was concluded with a pear custard tart. Throughout the meal, dinner music was provided by members of Davidson’s string ensemble.

By Krisy Ford

Currently, the SGA is considering several new policies concerning the academic aspects of Davidson life. “All of these proposals are
still in the embryonic stages,” says Senior Class President Jennifer Humphrey, “Nothing has been finalized.”

Retaking Failed Classes - The first proposal concerns the option of retaking a class that a student has failed. Currently,
if students fail a class, they can retake it at Davidson and both grades—the passing and failing grades—will count towards
their GPA. The policy being considered by the Council on Academic Affairs, chaired by Humphrey, would allow students to retake
classes and count only the passing grades on their GPAs. Although failed courses would appear on students' transcripts, it would
not average in the final GPAs. “By doing this we hope to encourage students to retake classes here if need
be, instead of taking them in summer school,” said Humphrey. According to Humphrey, the proposed plan would record classes retaken
in summer school as a pass or fail course. Students would get credit for passed classes. Failed classes would average
as regularly failed courses. This would reward students taking classes at Davidson.

Standards of Progress - Another proposal being reviewed by the council concerns “standards of progress.” Currently, there is a standard
number of courses that students must pass in order to advance to the next class. The council is considering incorporating
a GPA requirement into the standards of progress. There would not be a required GPA for graduation, but there would
be one for advancement into the sophomore, junior, and senior years. “The requirement would not be something that is unreasonable,”
says Humphrey, “It would just be used to keep people from coming into their senior year and having to struggle.”
There is not a high chance that this policy will put anyone at a disadvantage. The average graduating GPA is
around a 3.0. The number of students graduating with under a 2.0 is usually in the single digits. Another component
of this policy would be that only classes taken at Davidson would count in the standards of progress. Students could
still take classes in summer school, but only those classes taken at Davidson would count in their GPA required to
meet the standard of progress. The goal of this policy would be to prepare students and to make them more
viable candidates for the job market.

Questions - As previously stated, these policies are still in the planning stages. The committee has many questions that need
solutions before the policies could be put into effect. Some of the questions include where to draw the line for
the required GPA. Should the requirement be the same each year or should it get harder? If it is not
met, should there be academic probation? For how long? How many times can a student be put on probation before
being suspended? How long should the probation last? A semester? A year? As soon as these problems are worked out,
the SGA will decide whether or not to suggest to the administration to change the current policy.

SIHEREE MONT D.J. SERVICE
(704) 563-7914
