4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 5, 1993

Learning Resource Center Provides Study Tips for Students
By Alice Felmlee

In the fall of 1992, Davidson faculty members designed a new program aimed at helping students in all areas of
academic life. The Learning Resource Center, headed by Barbara Hess, offers Monday night workshops led by professors and other faculty
members, ranging from “Increasing Your Power of Concentration” to “Tips for Writing a Better Paper.”

Former SGA President, Angres Foxx, had the original idea for the program and teamed with John Eaves of the Dean
of Students’ Office in presenting his idea to the rest of the faculty. Because of many professors’ support for the
program, Dean Eaves was able to obtain funding to start the program from the Office of the Vice President for
Academic Affairs.

Barbara Hess, who was selected to spearhead the effort, began by organizing a small network of professors and faculty members
who were interested in leading a Monday night workshop on a skill with which they felt students might need tips
for improvement. Dean Eaves, who has been monitoring the program since its origins last fall, commented, “It’s wonderful to see
the faculty involvement. Those who volunteered have been very enthusiastic, energetic, and available, thus showing their willingness to help the
students.”

The Learning Resource Center began the new year with a workshop on February 8 led by faculty members Nantz and
Longworth entitled “Time Management.” Later workshops included “How to Read a Textbook,” “Improving Your Memory,” “Choosing and Researching a Topic,”
and “Writing a Better Paper” led by Drs. Thornberry, Staton, Serebrennikov, and Holland, respectively. Tonight in Chambers room 235 at
7 p.m., the Learning Resource Center is holding a workshop designed to instruct students in “Stress Management.” Monday night workshops
coming up include “Strategies for...

Georgia Students React to Lull in Flag Battle
ATLANTA (CPS) - Even though Georgia Gov. Zell Miller recently abandoned the fight to remove a Confederate symbol from the
state flag, some students say the battle has just begun. The governor, who withdrew his proposal in early March, was
unable to garner enough support from the Legislature to alter the flag, said the governor’s deputy press secretary Peggy Moody.

The battle has raged since May, when the governor attempted to introduce legislation to have the Confederate stars and bars,
which were added in 1956, removed from the flag before Atlanta hosts the 1994 Super Bowl and the 1996 Olympics.
The skirmish, however, shows no signs of ending, and officials predict a state referendum next year to resolve the matter.

Some objected to the governor’s plan, saying that banning the battle symbol is not enough, and they want to go
back to the original 1799 Georgia flag design, or to have an entirely new one designed. Hundreds of college students
marched, protested, and at one point, burned the flag in demonstrations throughout Atlanta.

“People don’t realize the pre-1956 flag is an adaptation of the Confederate national flag. Why go from the Confederate battle
flag to the Confederate national flag? It’s six of one, half dozen of another,” said Lawrence Philpott, a junior at
Georgia State University and a member of Descendants of Enslaved Africans. Philpott described himself as a “major instigator” in February’s
flag burning incident. “We did not burn it to be radical. We burned it to show how fed up we
were. We didn’t want the march to be just another watered-down march,” Philpott said.

Philpott said a growing number of students are becoming involved in the flag controversy, and next year will encourage even
more demonstrations.

Group Sponsors Anxiety Month
MAPLEWOOD, NJ (CPS) - As if you didn’t have enough to worry about, the National Anxiety Center has declared April
to be National Anxiety Month and has announced the winners of its third annual “Chicken Little Awards” taken from media
reports. Killer meteors, a $40 billion space station, and margarine were among those named.

“If I tried to dream this stuff up, I couldn’t,” said Alan Caruba, founder of the tongue-in-cheek contest. Winners included
a report on an asteroid that was reported to have been a “close call” when it was 2.2 million miles
away from Earth, and a study that concluded margarine may be worse for people than butter.Test Taking” on April 12.
The Learning Resource Center program, which has received wonderful reviews from both students and faculty, is meant to be “a
supplementary program for any students, A or marginal, who want to improve upon the skills they have,” said Dean Eaves.
“It is a given here that students are bright and intelligent but not all have the good study skills needed
to improve,” he added. Looking to the future, it is hoped that the Learning Resource Center will become a more
permanent type resource on the Davidson campus. According to Dean Eaves, “We hope students will learn to consider it as
an option when they need academic relief.”

Student Government Election Results Posted for 1993-1994 School Year
By Shaye Benton

Results of last week’s elections were announced Friday, April 2 after votes were counted from the last round of run-offs.
Each class elected next year’s President as well as two Senators. In addition, rising Sophomore and Senior classes elected new
members for the Honor Council. Next year’s Sophomore class elected Bo Bartholomew as President and Kelly Cunningham and Nick Troiano
as Class Senators. Junior Class President for next year is B.J. Rudell. Leigh Rawdon and Gautam Srivinasan will serve as
next year’s Junior Class Senators. 1993-94 Senior Class President is Jennifer Humphrey, and Senior Class Senators are Chris Edmonston and
Karen Marshall. Seven new representatives to the Honor Council were also elected. Sophomore Representatives are J.D. DuPuy, Philip Ewing, and
Lilian Montgomery. Senior Representatives are Suma Desai, Bill Pomeroy, Keri Slater, and Duncan Spears. The elected students are looking forward
to some big events and exciting challenges for the 1993-94 school year. Senior Class President Jenn Humphrey commented: “It’s going
to be a busy year next year, Seniors.”

Angelou Poetry Aims to Inspire
Maya continued from page 1

“I had to tell her Shakespeare was white. It was gonna get out.” There were more than just anecdotes, though,
as Angelou also reminded us of our responsibilities, big and small. “The charge upon you is so serious that I
try to make you laugh so I can tell you how serious it is. The charge upon you is to
try to make this country more than it is today, more than what James Baldwin called, ‘These yet to be
United States.’” Like any good professor, though, she could not leave without demanding that we make ample use of the
library and the librarians in it. Directing us to “literature as deliverance from ignorance,” she warned that if you miss
the literature of the world (African, French, Russian, Scandinavian, and more), “You'll leave this place saying you’ve been educated when
in fact you will only have been trained.” After answering several questions from the audience, and after being serenaded by
one inspired member of the audience (Maria Howell), an evening with Maya Angelou was over. She received a standing ovation,
and the audience filed out of Love, better nourished than when they had filed in only an hour and a
half before.

Students who attended were favorably impressed with Maya Angelou. Senior Matt Bumstead reflected later, “I thought it was totally uplifting.
She expressed a greater joy in the human experience than anyone I’ve seen in years.”

KOBE JAPANESE HOUSE OF STEAKS & SEAFOOD
Sushi Bar Open Tuesday-Sunday Evenings
Early Bird (Sunday-Thursday)
$2.00 off Chicken
$2.00 off Shrimp
$3.00 off Chicken & Shrimp Special
Lunch Wed., Thurs. & Fri. 11:30am - 2:00pm
Sun - Thurs. 5 - 10pm
Fri - Sat 5 - 11pm
I-77 Exit 28
Next to Movies at the Lake
20465 Chartwell Ctr. Dr.
Cornelius, NC
704-896-7778
