10 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1993

HARRISON ROBERTS - Editor in Chief
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Executive Editor
LEIGH RAWDON - Managing Editor
ALICE FELMLEE - News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL - Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
LAURA DENNIS - Production Manager
JOSH ROGERS - Business Manager
KATRICE SHULER - Circulation Manager
ERIC SJOSTROM - Ass't Circulation Manager

Honor and the Court

“An elaborate system of rules strictly enforced might promote a surface conformity to the standards of behavior desired, but would
not effectively serve to develop the maturity of character which is the aim of the college.”
-Preamble to the Davidson College Code of Responsibility

Last spring, the trustees of the college at last confronted the problem of reconciling the official alcohol policy with the
laws of North Carolina. Most of the results are obvious. A smattering of student discontent, reduced social options for some,
and infinite inconsistencies in the way the policy is defined and enforced. Overall, a small price to pay for an
insurance policy against liability suits that the college luckily managed to avoid.

One effect of the policy that has gone largely unmentioned, but one whose implications reach deep into the social fabric
of the school, is that the policy ignores the basic premise of academic life at Davidson, the Honor Code. The
freedom of individuals is one of the greatest strengths of the college. This freedom is made possible by the success
of the Honor Code. College policy, as defined by the Code of Responsibility, is to state simple rules and have
the students’ sense of honor define how far each rule reaches. The alcohol policy, however, is so strict and minutely
defined, that honor has been removed. Indeed, the most damaging result of the policy is that it has effectively removed
the Honor Code from the court.

In years past, an individual house hosting a party was clearly responsible for any violations that occurred. The houses policed
themselves. In hiring monitors, the school has created the appearance that houses are no longer responsible for non-members’ violations. The
result is that many rules are broken. Flagrant and public violations of official school policy that go largely unpunished degrade
both respect for the rules and the authority of the College to make any rules. In addition, when prospective students
visit the college and watch legal age drinkers “sneak” five beers under the eyes of the monitor up the stairs,
do they really get a sense of the honor that pervades life outside the court? Does a freshman?

The court cannot remain, even if in appearance only, an island free from the code of honor that has defined
Davidson life for so many years. The social life of the students and the Honor Code cannot be so diametrically
opposed. Eventually, one will break, and that would be tragic.

Walter & Sarah

It takes many, many people to put a newspaper together. This edition itself includes the contributions of over forty students
and one faculty member, not to mention technical support provided by the publisher, comptroller, and others. The recent history of
The Davidsonian shows that it has been less than “The South’s Foremost College Weekly,” but more “Davidson’s Only When It’s
Convenient Paper.” In Walter Price and Sarah Gayle, however, Volume 84 found two leaders to bring this jumble of people
and material into a timely, well-planned, and attractive weekly format. Walter’s dedication to excellence and Sarah’s seemingly infinite knowledge of
every aspect of the paper made it possible to create a medium through which the entire community would be informed
of the topics that affect the College. The 1993-1994 Editorial Board would like to thank these two for their sacrifice
and assure them that their contributions to the College have not gone unnoticed. Besides, they’re a cute couple.

Letters

McCrory Criticizes Amboise

To the Editor:

In her first article, “Let’s Talk,” Marilyn Ambroise informed Davidsonian readers of her intent to write about racial issues. Her
second article addressed the reasons that the word “black” is no longer an acceptable way to refer to African-Americans. I
had no problems with either of those. Her third piece, “Guilty Before Proven Innocent” is a completely different matter. In
this article, Ambroise uses the Rodney King verdict to attack the way African-Americans are mistreated by the justice system in
the U.S., but also to attack Caucasians in general. She concludes that the reason the Rodney King verdict went the
way it did is that “America is a racist society where, for the most part, unless you are a white,
Anglo-Saxon, Protestant male, you are not worth anything.” Funny how she neglects to mention some of the FACTS of the
case, and of theWhole situation, isn’t it? (Also, it is interesting that she chooses as her example a case where
Caucasians, not African-Americans, were on trial.) She never addresses the fact that the jurors came from a neighborhood which was
full of retired police officers. She never mentions that Rodney King was involved in a high-speed chase driving while under
the influence of drugs. She also never considers in her article that the defense attorneys showed those jurors the videotape
literally thousands of times to the point that Rodney King was dehumanized in their eyes. Instead of determining where blame
might lie based on what actually occurred in the courtroom, she judges the whole American society as “racist” based on
the opinions of twelve jurors. Surely, Marilyn Ambroise would like to characterize me as just another Caucasian trying to justify
the verdict, but that really is not the case. The fact that I am Caucasian does not mean I am
incapable of recognizing police brutality against an African-American. Being Caucasian does not render me blind to injustice. I agree with
Marilyn Ambroise that Rodney King was not given a fair turn in the judicial system. However, this is not the
same as assuming a complete lack of justice for African-Americans in this country. In her article, Ambroise assumes that Caucasians
supported the verdict, and assumes that Caucasians are racist. By assuming this, she is guilty of the same prejudices she
vehemently attacks. Marilyn Ambroise wants African-Americans to be considered innocent until proven guilty, but she refuses to grant Caucasians the
same luxury because she can only see them as guilty of racism first. Isn’t this more than a little hypocritical?

Sincerely,
Mary McCrory, ’95

Kerns Disgusted by Fans

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices
are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or
commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Why do some students at Davidson College insist on constantly making themselves look foolish during athletic events, especially basketball games,
by constantly haranguing officials? At last Wednesday’s UNCC game, I had the misfortune of sitting in the front row of
the Davidson student section. What I saw was a number of students, both men and women, who acted in such
a boorish and uncivilized manner that if they took the time to look at themselves in the mirror they would
most likely see the symbol for the Democratic Party. (For those of you who don’t follow politics, that would be
an ass.)

Wednesday’s game was very physical, a natural result of a fierce rivalry. There were many close calls, and some very
questionable no-calls. But it is necessary to understand that no one is perfect. The referees aren’t infallible, a fact they
would surely admit. They give one hundred percent effort, just as the players and coaches do. If this is true,
which it is, then why would someone scream demeaning slurs at another person, or jump up and down like a
court jester, hurling a barrage of insults? I can envision the UNCC fans who were there with...

See "Kerns" on page 12

Livings Urges Men to be Sensitive

Late Self-Selection Night, one of my best friends, a woman, was crumpled on my floor, sobbing. “I feel like a
whore. I feel so cheap,” she managed to get out between tears. My friend felt cheap not because she had
slept with a stranger or done a striptease in front of an entire fraternity, but because she had been dancing.
She had danced with three men, all of whom she knew, all of whom were drunk to varying degrees, and
all of whom never once looked at her face. Between high fives with her friends, maybe their eyes did drag
across her face once or twice, but only on the way to her breasts. Subsequently, she felt cheap, like a
whore.

Once in a while, something like that happens, and I am forced to realize the state of our culture. That
night I decided that I didn’t like much being a male. Our society (that, by the way, means us here
at Davidson) is dominated by males, and always has been. Consider the English language. Words such as “history,” “human,” even...

See "Livings” on page 12
