2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 8, 1993

District Attorney Addresses Rape in North Carolina
By Alice Felmlee

Rape, a sexual assault committed without willing consent, is a crime common to all areas of the world. Amidst recent
rumors of an attempted rape on campus, Davidson too addressed this concern.

Speaking to a predominantly female audience on the night of Tuesday, March 2, Richard Gordon spoke on rape and how
it is treated under North Carolina law. Gordon, a district attorney in Charlotte, spoke not only for the law but
also as a father. His daughter, Kathleen, is a junior at Davidson.

Initially, Gordon sought to shed light on the differences between first and second degree rape. While first degree rape involves
forced consent by use of a deadly weapon and carries a mandatory sentence of life in prison, those convicted of
second degree rape in North Carolina may face anywhere from twenty to forty years in prison. These punishments are not
common to North Carolina alone, however. “Everywhere from Michigan to North Carolina has similar laws concerning rape,” Gordon commented.

“Unfortunately, for those involved, rape is often only one of several crimes present within the same transaction,” Gordon continued. It
is not uncommon for rape to be preceded by a kidnapping or a first degree burglary. In such situations, the
penalty becomes more severe and in the case that the victim is killed it may eventually lead to death row.

As a district attorney, Gordon commented on rape as it is seen in the courtroom as well. “Most rape defendants
do not plead guilty because they cannot bring themselves to admit that they did it.” Once in the courtroom, it
seems that “consent cases,” ones in which the defendant claims the victim consented, are the most difficult to obtain a
conviction for.

In all rape cases, there are definite ways in which to prove guilt or innocence, however. “DNA testing is our
most powerful tool,” said Gordon. This irrefutable proof combined with fingerprint samples and eye-witness identification often make their way into
the courtroom.

When creating a hypothetical rape on the Davidson campus, Gordon instructed his audience on what steps should be taken to
help the victim in the long run. “It would be best to call the Mecklenburg Police in addition to the
Davidson police in the event of a rape,” he commented. “While Davidson has trained investigators, they can’t do it all.”

In his closing, Gordon abandoned his role as district attorney and assumed a more fatherly role. “Most people talk of
violent crime like they talk of the other side of the moon but you must remember that crime is out
there,” he said. “There are some bad, bad people in this world and I pray that you don’t meet some
of the ones I’ve met.”

Davidson Alum Speaks on Identity Politics
By Jeff Oller

In analyzing the present state of democracy worldwide, Elizabeth Kiss examined the role of fragmentation. She considered whether or not
movements such as the civil rights or women's movements are a detriment to democracy.

1983 was a year of firsts for Elizabeth Kiss. In that year she became the only female Rhodes Scholar in
the history of Davidson, an achievement which remains unmatched even today. While at Davidson, Kiss was instrumental in starting the
Davidson branches of Amnesty International and the Women’s Issues Committee. Today she has

Facilities Planning Committee Says New Track, Soccer Venues Very Likely
Track continued from page 1

other purposes such as the endowment and professorships. The importance of the track program at Davidson goes beyond the students
who are members of the track team, however. The track program here is very important to the entire school not
only because it is a traditional part of Davidson athletics, but also because of NCAA requirements for Division I athletics.

“In order to be a Division I athletic program, we have to have seven sanctioned sports for men and for
women. If we lost any one sport for women right now we would not qualify. Two of ours right now
are cross country and outdoor track,” said Lee Sargent.

If Davidson lost Division I status in athletics, none of what happened in December for the soccer team would be
possible. With the loss of Division I status, would come the loss of athletic scholarships, a vastly reduced budget, and
limited post-season tournament play.

Thus far, the only firm decision that has been made is that a new facility is necessary. No site has
been decided on; though two are being considered. One possibility is locating the trackand soccer field on the upper IMAC
fields. It would make a good site because it is a very compact, level surface, and also would be a
good location for the youth soccer camps which come here in the summer. Another possibility would be to renovate Richardson
Field. This is not as easy as it might seem, because to build the kind of track facility which would
really improve the track program, an eight-lane track is necessary. To build an eight-lane track around a soccer field would
mean that the entire east stadium would have to be removed. Also, since the maintenance departments are housed underneath, it
would have to be moved also. Clearly, there are benefits to having the complex at Richardson Field, however. For sentimental
reasons, it is the best site since it is the A.H. Whittle track, named after Coach Whittle, who was the
Davidson track coach for 42 years. Also, keeping it there would tie Baker Sports Complex in with the rest of
the campus better than the upper IMAC fields. One problem with putting the complex on Richardson Field is that ground
could not be broken until the NCAA soccer tournaments were no longer at Davidson. In other words, there would be
no new track for at least two to four years. Because the athletics department does not wish to see its
track program dwindle as a result of the tournament, some are proposing a temporary track be built. According to Director
of Athletics Terry Holland, “There is the possibility of a $50,000-$60,000 temporary track, but if we do that it will
be 7 or 8 years before a new track and soccer facility is built.” A final decision will be made
by the Facilities Planning Committee, which advises the President. The track complex is only one of their responsibilities, however, as
they attempt to plan how the college is set up for decades to come. Part of the reason this decision
has been delayed is that originally it was thought that Richardson Field might be used for academic space in the
future, and therefore the new track and soccer field would have to be located on the IMAC fields. Only very
recently has it been decided that academic space will not be extended in that direction.

NOW AVAILABLE: APPLICATIONS FOR 1993-94 FINANCIAL AID

Students who have not previously received financial aid may be eligible for grants, work-study jobs, federal loans and/or merit scholarships.
Application forms are available at the Financial Aid Office, #1 Jackson Court. Office hours are 9-12 and 2-4:30, Monday -
Friday, and the phone number is 892-2232. The deadline for applying is May 1, 1992.

taken these and other concerns to Princeton as a Professor of Political Philosophy. As one of only seven in a
Harvard Fellowship Program, Kiss is studying "Ethics and the Professions." With standing room only in the 900 Room on Thursday,
March 4, Dr. Kiss lectured on "Identity Politics: Democracy's Friend or Foe?" as a part of the Union Alumni Lecture
Series. In opening, she voiced her concerns for America, the tossed salad as opposed to America, the melting pot. “At
this time there is an increasing sense of fragmentation and disunity in America and the world at large. I can
only hope that we will soon reach a point when people will concentrate on fights that will benefit the world
as a whole rather than their own identities.” Citing historical artifacts as examples, Kiss went on to address identity politics
in symbolic terms. She questioned the audience, “Should the United States flag have the Confederate stars and bars in it?”
When considering the question in terms of political identity, she answered, the presence of the Confederate motif within the U.S.
flag is symbolic only of “group survival” and not the pain and suffering of a past era. After tracing identity
politics from the beginnings of immigration to the present, Dr. Kiss offered these words, “Our culture is not that simple
and we need to be in the practice of getting together to discover and construct needs and values. In this
way, we can broaden our conceptions of who we are and what our needs are.” Looking to the future, Kiss
closed her address with some advice on how to minimize the effects of identity politics. “We must all recognize that
we are not the norm and we must all better understand how a group operates under identity politics: learning to
deal with group dissent, change in goals, and relationships.”

Write for News... Call Alice -6010

Too... Just arrived for spring

Great Campus Sportswear

Come See!

Merchant of Fashion and Quality Apparel for MEN and WOMEN

John Mack & Son 128 North Main St., Downtown Mooresville
