ARTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1993 11

Movie Magic
By Scott McLean

Hey y’all! I’m baaaack! After a week of much-needed R & R, I have returned to give you the scoop on what’s new at the movies this week. First, I would like to extend thanks to Mr. Crumbley for filling in last week—I was creatively zapped and couldn’t even write my own name, much less an article worthy of your perusal. Kudos, Alex!

Anyway, this week’s featured flick is *A Nightmare Before Christmas*, director Tim Burton’s animated opus. Though Burton didn’t direct, he does share producer credit with long-time collaborator Denise Dinovi, and his personality is all over the film. From the weird creatures and puppets (some of whom you’ll recognize from *Beetlejuice*) to the music (by Danny Elfman, who has done all Burton’s films and wrote the theme to *The Simpsons* as well), this movie reeks of Burton. That is by no means a bad thing, as this one turns out to be yet another jewel in his crown.

The story centers around Jack Skellington, the Pumpkin King of Halloweentown. Bored with scaring children year after year, Jack is looking for something new and exciting, and he finds it when he stumbles on the door to Christmastown. Having discovered the cure for his mid-life crisis, Jack decides to give Christmas a try this year and he recruits the citizens of Halloweentown to help. He kidnaps Santa and sets about delivering Christmas to the children of the world—Halloween style. What ensues is a bellyful of laughs as we watch the inept Jack doing the best he can to make this Christmas an unforgettable one, and he succeeds with flying colors.

A mostly opera-style production, the music/lyrics rival the animation as being the movie’s best feature. Director Henry Selick combines these two elements beautifully, creating an artistic masterpiece. Of course, he gets some help from the voices of Danny Elfman, Catherine O’Hara (*Beetlejuice*, *Home Alone*), and Paul Reubens (none other than Pee Wee Herman himself). Even if you’re not big on the music or the puppets, just looking at the elaborate sets is nearly entertainment enough. This is a film that you definitely won’t forget anytime soon, so check it out. I’m sure you won’t be disappointed.

Still Whistlin' Dixie
Waxin' Metaphysical
By Geoff Graham

When I started writing a couple of months ago, I don’t think I really had any direction with this article. I simply planned to write about Country music. Whatever I felt like saying, I’d say. Before long, however, reason stepped in and suggested I write something people might be interested in reading. Therefore, I’ve restricted myself to reviewing albums, concerts, and such with my own personal flair (or whatever you want to call it). I gained direction, so to speak.

It’s silly, I think, to try to convert the world to Country music. I don’t want anyone stuffing Dave Neiland rave crap down my throat. Why would anyone want me force-feeding them Geoff Graham country crap? Besides, the world has enough Country fans as it is. There’s just enough to annoy the hell out of everybody, but just too few to make ‘em so mad they’d do something about it.

“Well, Geoff,” you say, “What are you getting at? Didn’t you mention something about direction a minute ago?” Well, I’ll tell you. Someone asked me, being the oracle I am, if I’d write something about what Country means to me. I don’t know that I can answer them. I have even stronger doubts that anyone cares. Nevertheless, I’ll give it a try. It’s not like Rachel is going to cut my article. The Arts section needs filler. So, if you’re expecting some sort of review, sorry to disappoint you.Confused, here. I know my opinion carries a lot of weight, but don’t take it as gospel. Country, to me, is a tropological symbol. It means something different to everyone. Likewise, through that unique meaning, we can interpret something about the individual. For instance, if you think Country lacks any redeeming qualities, if you think it’s dumb, or simple and unoriginal, if you think Country fans lack intelligence, and so on, that says something about you. Keep in mind, this is only my opinion. Maybe you lack compassion, or an ability to empathize. Maybe you’re hostile. Or, most likely, your vindictive nature, your need to put down the things and people around you, is an attempt to cover up your own inadequacies. It’s a sign of insecurity, a cry for help. If you see Country in a different light, like

See Dixie on page 12

Poet Shapiro illuminates prosaic style to 900 Room audience Tuesday

By Alex Crumbley

Alan Shapiro, accomplished poet and Professor of English at UNC-Greensboro, spoke and read his poetry to an enthusiastic 900 Room crowd on Tuesday night. He read mostly from Covenant, his latest book of poems published in 1991, and from In Praise of the Impure, his new book, soon to be published. Poet C.K. Williams called Covenant “a marvelous work, one of the best I’ve come across in years, and one which grows richer and richer on every reading.”

His enthralling presentation Tuesday night appealed to all kinds of people, from lovers of mythology to civil rights activists, basketball enthusiasts to aspiring writers. Shapiro’s poetic style, often in complete sentences, sounded prosaic. Technically speaking, what makes his work poetry rather than prose is his ability to make line breaks add meaning to his sentences. Shapiro makes the reader consciously aware of turns of phrase and the perhaps multiple meanings of words in his arrangement of poetic lines. Unfortunately, this effect is more apparent to the reader than to the listener, and hearing him read makes his pieces sound more like prose than poetry.

A flavorful combination of the old and the new, the classical and the contemporary, and the separate and the whole, make the subjects of Shapiro’s poetry innovative and thought-provoking. His poems are often rooted in the classics or historical events, but also are relevant to contemporary issues. He read “Mud Dancing,” from Covenant, which compares the surrendering of cultural identity which took place from the Holocaust to Woodstock. About the poem he remarked, “The things that one loves best are the things that are taken from one, and taken irrevocably.” The difference between the two, obviously, was the means and the willingness by which each group lost its identity, but his comparisons between them are fresh and powerful.

He composed “The Visitation,” also in Covenant, while sitting in traffic one day. In it, he simply wonders what Old Testament angels who visit the earth in disguise would think of us if they saw how we acted toward one another in traffic. “The Visitation” also takes old ideas and projects them onto new conditions, making them both more vivid and meaningful because of the unique combination of the two.

Several of his poems concern his favorite sport—basketball. Before reading “Between Assassinations,” which he called his “Tintern Abbey,” he remarked, “My spots of time all take place on basketball courts in cities.” Many of these poems address the problems of race relations in America, a problem which Shapiro feels has only gotten worse since integration. Interestingly, Shapiro went to Brandeis on a basketball scholarship to play point guard.

Shapiro’s work springs from an insatiably well-read mind, as is apparent from his multitude of literary and classical allusions. When he met with Dr. Abbott’s creative writing class Tuesday afternoon, he named incessant reading as an essential ingredient for becoming a successful writer, along with, of course, constant practice in writing. He also advocated a healthy balance of arrogance and humility for the aspiring writer: arrogant enough to believe in one’s own ability and humble enough to accept criticism. Shapiro is a native of Boston and taught at Stanford University before coming to North Carolina.