4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1993

Eating disorders seek out their prey over the holiday

By Mandy Curtis

Family problems may not be the only fear of students over the holidays. For some, the fear of food and
body image is a problem for many, particularly women. Eating disorders, especially bulimia, find their prey over the holiday season—those
who fall to the bittersweet tortures and temptations of yuletide parties complete with all the holiday trappings. Christmas cookies, everlasting
candy canes, tempting turkey and stuffing, chocolate Santas, and, of course, the figgy pudding—what to do after eating all this?
Many fall victim to compulsive overeating, others will head to the bathroom, and still others will simply starve themselves.

Purging after a binge is the most common course of action. It is what many people think is the answer
to that stuffed and uncomfortable feeling after gorging on the amazing home-cooked dinner that they haven’t tasted in so long
after subsisting on two salads a day in the Commons for a semester. But “binging and purging” is not the
answer for the holiday season, nor any season, according to counselors DeWitt Crosby and Georgia Ringle of the student health
service. Say Crosby and Ringle, bulimia is not a way to keep off the pounds, not over Christmas, not over
New Years, not ever.

Crosby and Ringle believe that 20% of Davidson females are bulimic. It is an eating disorder they see more and
more in overachieving, high-stressed, perfectionist women. Says Ringle, “Davidson draws a high-risk group” for eating disorders. Ringle defined two kinds
of eating disorders: those that are the result of deep-rooted problems and those that are situational or “infectious.” DeWitt says
that “the deep-rooted eating disorder is very difficult to overcome.” The latter, however, is something that can be more easily
stopped when one is taken out of the situation.

Ringle and DeWitt concur that most often, women are more concerned with how other women view them than how the
opposite sex sees them. Pressure from peers and the media are two strong forces aiding in eating disorder inflation. What
many women do not understand is that their bodies are maturing to the maternal stage, according to Ringle. Women are
not going to look the same as they did when they were girls.

Although rampant among women throughout the year, eating disorders inflate over the holidays. Body image tends to become more of
a problem when sitting down to eat a five-course Christmas dinner. Food is the focus of the holiday season; it
is a social symbol. As a means of changing the focus to help, DeWitt and Ringle suggest getting away from
the house, limiting alcohol intake, exercising normally, and meeting with friends. However, it is not necessary to deny oneself of
the holiday pleasures, there is always time to work off a few extra pounds once January comes around.

The outdoor contest was won

Basement and First Rich battle it out in Christmas hall decorating contest

Photo by Casey Rogers

First Rich tied for first place in the Residence Life hall Christmas decorating contest.

Seattle University acquires law school

SEATTLE (CPS) - The University of Puget Sound Law School was acquired by Seattle University in November in a move
to strengthen each university’s programs and direction, officials said. The law school, the largest in Washington with an enrollment of
800 students, will be assumed by Seattle University beginning September 1, 1994, officials at both institutions said. The law school,
located in Tacoma, Washington, will be relocated to Seattle University within five years, said the Rev. William Sullivan, president of
the Jesuit school. “The academic program will not change and financial arrangements for students will be comparable,” he said. Seattle
University, which offers 19Graduate programs, a doctoral program, and 49 undergraduate degrees, want to strengthen their professional and graduate programs,
while the University of Puget Sound wants to focus on its liberal arts program. The Board of Trustees at both
institutions decided not to publicize how much the transaction cost, a University of Puget Sound spokesman said.

Woman to attend The Citadel

CHARLESTON, S.C. (CPS) - A woman who gained admission to The Citadel by altering references to her gender on her
application will attend classes, an appeals court ruled November 17. An appeals court upheld a ruling to allow the woman,
Shannon Faulkner, to attend classes while a discrimination lawsuit is pending. The lawsuit charges that the male-only admission policy is
unconstitutional and violates the 14th Amendment by denying equal access. The Citadel is claiming that the institution should remain male-only
because that’s what makes the college unique. A spokesman for the college said admitting women would eliminate the uniqueness and
decrease the value of the college’s single-sex education.

“We’re trying to maintain a successful program that has been supported by the state for 151 years,” said Rick Mill,
a spokesman for The Citadel. “We’re arguing the issue of single-sex education.”

Faulkner has gained the right to attend classes with corps members, but she will not be a cadet. She will
live off-campus. Faulkner, of Powdersville, S.C., applied to The Citadel earlier this year and had officials at her high school
delete all references to her gender. She was provisionally accepted pending final transcripts, and then Citadel officials realized Faulkner’s transcripts
had been tampered with.

By Mary Clare Jalonick

For the second year in a row, Residence Life held their hall decorating contest for freshmen. Twenty of the halls
on campus participated, adorning their living spaces with everything from Christmas wish lists to homemade hearths. Two freshman halls, basement
Rich and first Rich, tied for first place. Second place was a three-way tie between second Watts, fourth Richardson, and
second Little.

Basement Richardson stunned the judges with a live nativity scene, while fourth Richardson sang Christmas carols. Second Watts held “Christmas
Under the Sea.” Lingle Manor, whose Luminaries continue to shine outside the dorm, took second place with a “cat burglar”
Santa Claus climbing up the side of the building. Third East Belk won third place with its excessive use of
colorful lights hanging from different windows.

Each hall that placed in the contest won a sum of money. The two 1st place winners in the indoor
contest will receive $40 each, and each of the 2nd place winners will receive $30. For the outdoor contest, Lingle
Manor won $50, Ryburn won $25, and Third East Belk has won $10.

The judges, secretaries from the Residence Life office, rated the halls according to three categories. They looked for originality and
creativity, participation and involvement, and theme and style. Kurt Holmes, assistant director of Residence Life, accompanied the judges around the
campus. “Theme and style really set the indoor winners apart,” he says. According to Holmes, twice as many halls participated
this year as last year, and there was much more effort on each individual hall. “I think that everyone did
great work. It’s a shame we couldn’t give prizes to everybody.”

Dream Weaver can help. They offer a complete range of affordable handcrafted jewelry and accessories perfect for your mom, sister,
or girlfriend. And there's even some hand-dyed silk ties for dad. So end your holiday worries and visit Dream Weaver
today. Monday through Saturday 10 am - 5 pm and by appointment.

Wearable Art by Judith
DREAM WEAVER
106 South Main Street, Davidson, NC
