SPORTS 14 MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1993

Cats take wrestling titles at VMI, Pensacola
By Matt Pitzer

After seven years with nobody winning a tournament, wrestling coach Tom Oddo saw freshman Miles Miller win in the VMI tournament on Nov. 13. That win was impressive enough, as were the three wrestlers that won the following week in Pensacola, Fla., but more important is what those wins symbolize: the strengthening of the entire wrestling program.

With the whole team back from last season, plus three seniors who spent last year abroad and a talented freshman class, Oddo feels that the program is close to becoming consistently competitive on the Division I level. One of the signs of that is that not all of the returning starters are guaranteed their positions this season, as freshmen and other upperclassmen fight for those spots.

“It’s a good problem to have,” Oddo said, “but it’s a stepping stone to building a good program.”

Sam Knowles, Jimmy Stewart, and Robbie Fierro all returned from a year abroad for their final season. Oddo expects the three, Knowles in the 158-pound weight class, Stewart at 190, and Fierro at 126 and 134, to assume leadership roles on the team.

In Pensacola, Knowles won his first tournament ever at the college level, after reaching several finals and falling just short. Along with Miller at 167, the other winner in Florida was freshman Aaron Kenner at 126, showing unexpected success from two first-year wrestlers.

“Although they are still young and relatively inexperienced, they’ve performed really well out of the blocks,” Oddo said.

Other top wrestlers should include: Jason Deaton at 118, Sean Harvey and Steve Duncan at 134, Francis Mitchell at 142, Miller Carey at 142 and 150 (when he returns from a broken hand suffered the week before the first tournament), Jared Glick at 158, Derek Spencer at 177, Tom Greene at 190, and Osric Prioleau as heavyweight.

Oddo feels he needs another season of growth and another strong recruiting year before the program will be at the level he desires.

“We’re still relatively young compared to most Division I schools,” Oddo said, “but we have more depth and experience than we’ve ever had.”

The team jumped out to a fast start with its better-than-expected results in the first two tournaments of the season.

“We are starting this season with confidence,” Oddo said, “instead of trying to catch up during the season like we did last year. It has already shown in the tournaments and it will start to show in the dual matches.”

Virginia threepeats
By Will Cobb

The University of Virginia arrived in Davidson for the second year in a row with only one thing in mind—to leave with the school’s fourth national soccer championship. They got what they came for by defeating Princeton 3-1 on Friday and South Carolina 2-0 in Sunday’s championship game before a record-setting crowd at Richardson Field.

The victory gave Virginia its third title in a row, an accomplishment never achieved in college soccer.

The first game on Friday featured the #3 Cavaliers and #22 Princeton University. Princeton’s inexperience showed early as Virginia struck quick with its first goal only 3:14 into the game as tournament hero Nate Friends got a perfect pass from A.J. Woods on a breakaway, finishing from 12 yards out to take an early 1-0 lead. Thirty minutes later, the two would team up again when Friends gathered a rebound off a Woods shot for an easy goal. Virginia would strike once more before the half as Friends completed the hat trick off an assist from Damian Silvera. The 3-0 halftime lead would be all Virginia needed, but the Tigers would not quit. Despite a poorly played first half, Princeton showed a lot of character and pride, getting on the board 12 minutes into the 2nd half when Jacob Dowden headed the ball past goalie Jeff Causey off a cross from Mike Busch. Despite a few more scoring threats, Princeton was unable to pull any closer.

“I am very proud of the way our team played in the second half,” said Princeton coach Bob Bradley, “When you are nervous and not playing well, a great team like UVa can really punish you.” Virginia tightened their play to hold on for a 3-1 victory and a trip to the championship game.

The second game featured a physical match-up between South Carolina and Cal State-Fullerton that ended with 36 fouls. The Titans were making their first-ever appearance in the Final Four while South Carolina was making only their second trip, the last in 1988. The game proved to be a defensive battle. Of the 16 shots, only 4 were saved. The teams remained scoreless until only 8 minutes remained, when junior Greg King took a throw-in from the sideline that midfielder Billy Baumhoff flicked to reserve Jamie Posnanski, who placed the ball past a helpless Fullerton keeper. The Gamecocks held on for the 1-0 victory, sending them to the NCAA finals for the first time ever. This victory gave South Carolina their third opportunity to win a national championship in school history.history; their last opportunity was in 1977, when the baseball team finished 2nd in the College World Series. After a rain-filled Saturday, the skies cleared for the championship game featuring two contrasting styles in South Carolina and Virginia. The game appeared to be a defensive battle as the first half

See Soccer on page 16

Landis looks back on his first season as head football coach
By Matt Pitzer

When a shoe company coined the slogan “Just Do It,” it must have had in mind people like head football coach Tim Landis. The first-year coach doesn’t want anybody to make excuses for anything; instead, he just asks his players to hit the field and prove themselves.

“At the beginning of the season,” Landis said, “we stopped complaining about what we didn’t have on the team and built on what we do have... We said to stop talking about what we could do and said let’s go do it. There would be no excuses, which in a way became our motto for the season.” And what a season it was. The Wildcats finished the year 6-4, marking the first time since 1979 Davidson has won six games. The team was this close to winning seven or even eight games. But speculating on what might have been is exactly what Landis, who deserves a good deal of credit for this season, doesn’t want.

“We were in a lot of games and you can say that if we had just gotten a couple more breaks we would have been 8-2,” Landis said. “Well, you can also say that if a couple breaks go the other way we could lose a few more games.”

Landis, an assistant for two years under Dave Fagg, got into position to take over the head coaching position this season by winning. After being an all-conference quarterback and pitcher at Randolph-Macon, he went to Morrisville, Pa. where he was the town’s high school football coach. In 1989, he was named the county coach of the year by the local newspaper when his team went 8-2. Four years later, and at the young age of 29, Landis now holds the job he dreamed of for many years after growing up in Princeton, N.J., where his father was head of the physical education department.

“This is a dream come true for me,” he said. “I always thought that I’d have to go somewhere else to become a head coach. At 29, many people will say he’s awfully lucky. Well, I guess I am.” He also said that his age was a source of extra pressure, the theory being that if he faltered early, he might be shown the door more quickly than an older, more experienced coach. If that pressure was there, Landis handled it calmly, even if the week leading up to the first game, a 7-3 loss at Sewanee, was a little nerve-wracking.

“I usually don’t get too nervous about a game, but I didn’t eat or sleep too much that week,” Landis said. “That was a real exciting week. It was a relief to get the game underway. To play so hard and lose was too bad, but it was good to see that we could play that way because I knew that if we played that way every week we would win some games.”

And the Wildcats kept on winning even through injuries to key players such as Alden Smith and Andy Stevenson. Whenever a player went down with an injury, Landis was particularly impressed with the way the rest of the team increased their level of play.

“The kids responded,” he said.

See Landis on page 15

Waymouth, swimmers on roll
By Staff Writer

This season’s diving teams are flourishing under the leadership of new coach Marsha Waymouth. Waymouth is a graduate of Indiana University and a former qualifier for the Olympic trials on the ten-meter platform. She has coached at Division I Utah State and is currently a gymnastics instructor at the Lake Norman YMCA in addition to her position as Davidson’s head diving coach.

Diving captain Thad Reece describes the team’s response to Waymouth as extremely enthusiastic. Reece, Henry Neale, Michael Hart, and Andy Borleski all have excellent records this year. They’ve racked up six “sweeps”—taking first, second, and third place on both the one-meter and three-meter boards—against Howard, William & Mary, Mary Washington, Radford, College of Charleston, and VMI. Reece and Hart have taken to calling themselves “the one-two punch” representative of their tendency to place first and second.

Meg Bently and Tiffany Sauls, both sophomores, have been scoring points for the women’s team. Down from six divers last year, the two are working hard under Waymouth’s leadership. Bently considers her second place in the Chapel Hill meet as her strongest accomplishment.

Diving is scored as one of the individual events in a swim meet. The performance of the divers is integral to the overall record of the Swimming and Diving Team. Reece described the meet against College of Charleston as the most rewarding of the year. In last year’s meet, Charleston scored twice as many points as the Wildcats. This year Davidson gave them a run for their money, losing by only four points. The points contributed by the divers’ sweep in that meet were vital to the team’s overall score.