Che Babidsonian

“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY”

VOLUME LXXXIV MONDAY, MARCH 29, 1993 NUMBER 20

Innocent Black Students Stopped by Campus Police
Some Question Officers' Motives; Do Racial Biases Cause Harassment of African-Americans?
By Mandy Curtis

Two black students, Cedric West and Chris Leak, were stopped by the Davidson police on Monday, March 22. West and
Leak were walking back from Baker at night between 10:00 and 11:00 and were stopped in front of the Sig
Ep house on their way to their dorm. The police questioned who they were and asked to see their Davidson
identification.

Leak explained that he saw the policeman in his Cushman twice before he stopped them: once as they came out
of Baker and the second time when he passed them in front of the Pika house. According to West and
Leak, they were not doing anything wrong, causing any trouble, or bothering anyone that would warrant reason for the police
to stop them.

West said that this was not the first time this has happened to him or Leak. West has been stopped
by the campus police and asked to identify himself five times since he arrived at Davidson as a freshman last
year. Leak added that he has also been stopped by the police on campus twice this school year.

According to West, he and Leak were stopped first semester upon leaving a KA party. He explained that they arrived
at the party in a car, parked, went in for about five minutes, left the party, and drove to Irwin.
The same police they had seen outside of the KA house followed them to the dorm. When they parked their
car the officer asked who they were and to show him their Davidson identification.

On both of the two occasions this year West and Leak said that they did not say anything to the
officers but simply showed them their IDs. “I just bit my tongue and left it at that because I didn’t
want to start any trouble that might lead to something else,” explained West.

West said, “I don’t like it and I don’t understand why they continue to do it.” Leak added, “There aren’t
but a handful of us; it’s not hard to know our faces."

Rick Moore of the campus police explained that it is “procedure for an officer to question the identity” of a
person whom they do not recognize on campus. He says that there is “nothing to take offense to” but that
students should appreciate the fact that the officers are out on campus looking after the safety of the student body.

Moore stated that he does not know why these two students looked suspicious when the police...

See Police on page 4

Forum Discusses Sexual Orientation
By Leigh Rawdon

Students have not always felt comfortable being gay or lesbian at Davidson. Students may still not feel comfortable, but they
have had an opportunity to relate their feelings of discomfort and difficulty in a campus-wide forum which drew an audience
of over 300.

The forum held the evening of March 7 in the 900 Room featured three college students and two professionals. The
students included a current Davidson senior and a former Davidson student who transferred last year. The panel discussed, “Being Gay
and Lesbian in the Real World,” specifying personal examples.

“I’ve wanted to do this forum for four years,” started senior panelist Meg Jones, “and until this moment I’ve always
thought nothing made me more nervous than talking in class!” Union committees Campus Forum and Women’s Issues, as well as
FLAG, sponsored the forum in conjunction with Women’s History month.

Beth Willard, past Chair of the Campus Forum committee, moderated the forum. She first asked the panel how they realized
their sexual orientation. Most pan...

See Panel on page 4

Please Come Back
"strongest profile ever" will choose Davidson next fall.
Photo by Casey Rogers

Prospective students enjoy a "picnic" lunch in the Gallery of Chambers when rain forced them inside Saturday.invited all accepted applicants
to campus for the weekend for "Decision Davidson" and more than 200 attended. Hopes are high that what is being
called the school's

By Sally Stone

Amidst mud and under sprinkling skies, over 200 admitted members of the class of 1997 arrived Saturday, March 27 for
Decision Davidson, the second annual admission program which replaced SGA weekend. The day began at 8:45 a.m. with registration in
Baker Sports Complex and campus tours. Dean Cable Wells, senior Honor Council Chairman Matt Bumstead, and freshman student LaTosha Jenkins
then welcomed the prospectives - and their parents. Following this opening session and slide show, multiple academic sessions were offered
by students and professors. The parents and students then separated to talk about Davidson life. Sessions on athletics, service, the
Union and publications, music

Prospectives "Discover Davidson"

and theater, social life, and religious life gave these possible Davidsonians a taste of life beyond the classroom. Current Davidson
students gave them a personal glimpse at a “picnic” lunch in Chambers Gallery, complete with humor and music by Miles
Mowry ’96. Barbara Harvey, an early decision applicant from Columbus, Georgia, explained that she returned for Decision Davidson be-

Davidson Notes Co-Author Eco Textbook

By Chris Frampton

Seeing little on the current textbook market that served their students well, professors Peter Hess and Clark Ross decided to
write a “thinking student’s” introductory economics textbook. The result, Principles of Economics: An Analytical Approach, was published this month by
West Publishing Company of St. Paul, Minnesota. Instead of following the popular graphics-laden format, the book focuses on economic reasoning
and the relevance of economic theories. At 650 pages, the book is about one third shorter than most economic textbooks.
Hess and Ross explained the reasoning behind these changes in the book's preface, “The current attention to excellence in education,
the renewed interest in math and science in the curriculum, and the challenge to compete in the international marketplace all
suggest that the time is right for a streamlined, analytical text in economic principles.” Because their primary activity for more
than ten years has been classroom teaching, they have strong beliefs about what students require in a textbook. “I don’t
know how anyone who’s isolated from undergraduate teaching can write an effective text,” said Ross. “I’ve learned as much over
the years from what students have gotten wrong as what they’ve gotten

See Eco on page 2

Davidson Accepts Strongest Class Ever

By Rachel Dunifon

Hours of diligent work by Davidson’s Admissions staff paid off this year in the acceptance of what Deborah Hogg, Assistant
Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid, calls “the strongest profile we have ever accepted at Davidson.” The accepted students, numbering
about 900, have an average rank in the top third percentile of their high schools, and a mean SAT score
of 1300. “We are really skimming off of the top with this class,” says Hogg. 162 of the accepted students
received early acceptance notification, while the other decision letters were issued on March 15. The deadline for the students to
commit to Davidson is May 1, and the Admissions office hopes to yield a minimum of 420 students out of
this group by then. The accepted profile consists of a roughly even split between males and females, from 44 states
and 22 foreign countries. The ethnic groups represented include 31 African-Americans, 2 Africans, 39 Asian-Americans, 3 Native-Americans, and 19 Hispanic-Americans.
According to Hogg, the high quality of this year’s acceptance

See Class on page 4

NEWS: Maya Angelou to read poetry at Davidson. Page 2.
OPINIONS: Bill Gullan sees more unity than divisiveness. Page 6.
SPORTS: Tennis teams keep rolling on past opponents. Page 12.
ARTS: Widespread Panic album tickles Chip's fancy. Page 9.
Rice Lacey was lucky enough to see the Marleys. Page 8.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
