| $8” THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1993

Photo by Casey Rogers
The onslaught of freshmen frustrated both the RLO and upperclassmen who were denied rooms.

Call Us! 896-8007
Shops on the Green - Cornelius
HOURS: 4pm-12 midnight
NEW ADDITIONS: Twisty Bread, Salad, Cheddar Cheese
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with other offers. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safety. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 20¢ penalized for late deliveries. ©1993 Domino's Pizza Inc.

Additional toppings 50¢
MEDIUM PIZZA $5.99
No coupon necessary

PKG. OF KOOL-AID
Order 10 - Close
Sunday - Thursday

MONDAY SPECIAL
LARGE PIZZA $7.99
2 FOR 1 MEDIUM PIZZAS
2 MEDIUM PIZZAS FOR THE PRICE OF A LARGE
Coupon expires 10/3/93

DEEP DISH
FREE TWISTY BREAD
WITH PURCHASE OF ANY MEDIUM PIZZA WITH TWO OR MORE TOPPINGS
OR ANY LARGE PIZZA
Coupon expires 10/3/93

THURSDAY ONLY
2 FOR 1 LARGE PIZZAS
$10.99
LARGE 2 TOPPING PIZZA $14.99
Additional toppings 50¢
Coupon expires 10/3/93

DELIVERY AREA LIMITED TO INSURE SAFE DRIVING. LIMITED TIME ONLY ©1993 DOMINO'S PIZZA INC PARTICIPATING STORES ONLY

Davidson hires twenty-four new professors
By Sally Stone

Davidson’s enormous freshmen class do not represent the only new faces to be seen on campus. Twenty-four new professors have joined Davidson’s faculty, filling posts in nearly every department. Hailing from various corners of the United States and beyond, eleven professors have accepted full-time positions, while the other thirteen are considered “visiting” professors for either a semester or for one year.

Some of these faces are newer than others. For example, Sylvia Newman, this semester’s Visiting Professor of French, was hired just last Monday; but many students may recognize Jonathon Berkey, Assistant Professor of History and Humanities, from his appearance on campus last semester and as the spouse of history professor Vivian Dietz.

The English department added the largest number of professors. They are: Sara Beasley, Shireen Carroll, Rosalyn Jones, Anne McClintock, Amy Pawl, and Stephen Sandy, as the McGee Professor of Writing. Joining the history faculty are Berkey, Garrett Fagan, and Jon Wertheimer. Murray Simpson joins the economics department; and Shelley Rigger became part of the political science department and Susan Roberts will join her in the spring. Daniel Cerutti and Stephen Williams are the two new psychology professors; and Nancy Fairley is the lone newcomer in the anthropology department. In the foreign languages, Kaori Hatayama became Davidson’s Japanese instructor; Burkhard Henke joins the German department; and Sylvia Newman recently became a French professor. Two new professors were added to the music faculty. They are Hugh Floyd and Richard Prior. The biology department also gained two members with the addition of John Schmidt and Ronald Ostrowski. Lastly, Todd Will became the latest member of the mathematics faculty.

Limited housing frustrates upperclassmen
By Court McBryde

Ever since last year’s lottery there has been much controversy among students concerning the present housing situation of the 1993-94 school year. This year there are sophomores, juniors, and seniors living in the Duke dorm. However, there were twenty senior women who were unable to receive housing in either the senior apartments or Duke. As for men, there are many juniors who remain in Belk, some for the third year, while sophomore women are in Cannon, Watts, and Sentelle.

Junior Tommy Sutor and his roommate Mark Hemby are living in Belk for the third year and are not happy about the situation, according to Sutor. Although the number of junior men living in Belk for the third year is not high, it is still a point of contention.Year is unknown, Sutor said there are a lot of them and Belk was one of their last choices to live. Sutor thinks providing rooms for women in Belk would give junior men the opportunity to live in other dorms. He says the problem they are having with housing can be attributed to “RLO’s poor planning and unpredictability of the size of the freshman class.” Belk dorm has not always been a male dorm and Richard Terry of the Residence Life Office commented that the RLO is discussing co-ed options. According to Terry, the RLO is aware of the disappointment and anger of the senior women unable to get a room in Duke. Terry explains one reason for this problem is the “offspring of the retention policy.” In the 1993 Lottery Handbook, the room retention policy states that anyone, except rising sophomores, can request by April 2 to retain their room. However, this request can be denied if the sex of the hall changes. Two women retained their rooms in Duke which limits the number of rooms in Duke that are available to seniors. “This policy is not set in stone and can be reviewed. It is an older policy that not many people have complained about,” Terry explained. Terry also commented that it is not possible to make every new room available to everyone once the lottery ends.

Senior Karen Marshall was one of the women who did not get a senior apartment or a room in Duke and is now living in Pax. She said that, to her, Duke has been known as a dorm for those seniors that do not get an apartment. There were only four men that wanted a senior apartment and did not receive one, but were able to obtain housing in Duke. There are two floors of men and one floor of women in Duke. “It seems unfair and weird to have two floors of men when only four senior men did not get an apartment,” said Marshall. Terry expressed his concern about both issues and would appreciate and welcome any suggestions students have to resolve these problems, “I hope students will come to me with suggestions.”

Housing for upperclassmen this year was 100% filled, even with the addition of Lingle Manor as a new residence hall. The house across from Richardson dorm, originally erected as a dining hall, houses transfer students and upperclassmen off the wait list.

Davidson Village Inn
By Mary McCrory

When Rebecca Clark attended Davidson eleven years ago, the Guest House filled up just as quickly as it does now. Seeing the number of visitors in town for Parent’s Weekend, Homecoming, and Alumni Weekend convinced her that the community had a real need for more accommodations. Even after moving to California, when she heard that local businessman Ed Harris was considering opening an inn, Rebecca Clark was still interested. She and her husband are now the innkeepers of the Davidson Village Inn, currently under construction on Depot Street. Construction on the brick building is nearing completion, and they hope to open for business by November 15. The Inn also plans to have an open house on December 1, when the town begins its Christmas celebration.

The inn will offer different amenities than the hotels and motels in Cornelius. The Clarks and managing partner Ed Harris hope to create a more cozy atmosphere by serving afternoon tea and coffee by the fire in the lobby. The 18 rooms will have four-poster beds and will be decorated in rich colors. Besides standard rooms for $85 per night, the inn will offer suites with queen-size beds and kitchenettes including microwaves and small refrigerators for $94. Also, for those staying in town for Thanksgiving or Christmas, the rates go down to $50 per night. For anyone looking for a unique gift, the inn will make gift certificates available and will also have special “Romantic Weekend” packages which could include anything from a bottle of champagne in the room to fresh flowers, fruit, and candles to a dinner at Le Trois Faisans next door. Primarily, the innkeepers want to cater to whatever their clientele might require and are open to requests.

Already the inn has a few advance bookings, and the Clarks are optimistic about the business. “A few freshman parents have even called to make reservations for graduation four years from now,” she said, surprised. The innkeepers expect to be very busy on weekends, but also wish to attract corporate business during the week.