ARTS MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1993 11

New Charlotte club opens with Belly and Radiohead on stage
By J. Larned & Tom Mew

Last Tuesday night marked the debut of the Capri, a somewhat retro-looking venue which at one time housed a Country
and Western dance hall and at another a B-movie theater. Musical guests Belly and Radiohead provided a worthy bill for
the birth of this new locale, which hopefully will fill the void left by the demise of the 13-13 club.

Radiohead began the show with a barrage of blaring melodies, designed to awaken even the most complacent in the crowd.
Lead vocalist Thom Yorke was indeed a forlorn individual as he wailed selections from the group’s debut LP, Pablo Honey,
and admonished the inattentive and overzealous in the crowd. At one point he even stopped the show until some violent
members of the audience were removed. Musically, the band was in top form, no doubt a testament to their adept
touring skills. Lead guitarist Jon Greenwood was a shoe-gazer in the truest sense of the phrase as he stood hunched
over his Telecaster, releasing a potent blend of melody and feedback. Highlights included “Creep,” which Yorke delivered lounge-act style and
introduced to the audience as “the reason you all came.” The bassist meanwhile amused the throng with a display of
heavy-metal-esque antics, which included handstands, cooing at Tanya, and wearing her instrument around her ankles. Pulling in the slack, lead
guitarist Thomas Gorman provided enough noise to leave many of the group’s fans feeling more than satisfied after the show.

As if things could not have gotten any better, Belly took the stage to work the crowd into a veritable
frenzy. Tanya Donelly, Belly’s lead vocalist and rhythm guitarist, was clearly the darling of the evening with her siren-like voice
and a friendly come-as-you-are stage presence. “Feed the Tree,” the initial hit off their debut album, Star, also received a
huge response. To top things off, Tanya Donelly invited none other than Thom Yorke to sing a stunning duet of
“Untogether.” It was a fitting ending to a perfect evening.

Keep an eye out for upcoming shows at the Capri. The way things went Tuesday night, this venue should prove
to be a promising one indeed. Also, if you have not heard selections from any of these bands, do not
hesitate to take a listen. You will be pleasantly surprised.

Still Whistlin' Dixie
Country doesn't need CMA awards
By Geoff Graham

The Country Music Association hosted their big awards celebration Wednesday night. If you forgot about it, don’t fret. You didn’t
miss much. If you do care, here’s what happened: Vince Gill won everything worth winning. Everybody else that deserved to
didn’t.

Now, I love the United States. This democratic thing we’ve got going seems to do the trick. Occasionally, however, the
system breaks down. We might fight a war over coffee beans off in Peru. We might pass a law making
it illegal for everyone to drink beer. We might even elect a moron or two to office somewhere in Washington.
How do these things happen? Ignorance, plain and simple.

This is what I’m talking about. How does a joker like Vince Gill win all these awards when there are
kings and queens out there worthy of recognition? What about Steve Wariner, Marla Bee Shoemaker, and Suzy Bogguss? What about
Alan Jackson? As far as I can tell, a knowledgeable group votes on it. Why, then, do people like Vince
win? How can songs like “Achy Breaky Heart” and “Money in the Bank” remain number one for weeks, when guys
like ole Radney are singing “Easier Said Than Done” to half-filled auditoriums? How? Ignorance, plain and simple.

I don’t even know why I let it bother me. It’s not as if we can pick a “best” artist.
They all have their merits. Besides, a competition does nothing but single out one winner. And naming one winner only
creates a bunch of losers. Who wants that?

Ballots, votes, and elections—These are all good and well for governments. We need a president. So what if there’s a
little corruption here and there? As long as I don’t have to listen to them sing, they can have their
occasional trips to the Grand Caymans. Country music, however, is a

See Dixie on page 12

The Meat Debate
It's simple. Meat is good and vegetables aren't.
By Wells Black

Well, I am supposed to be writing about why people eat meat. I don’t know about other people, but I
can tell you why I eat it. It’s simple; it tastes good. There is nothing better than sitting down at
the table at home to eat a steak that I just cooked on the grill on the back porch. I
am not talking about those disgusting little steaks that we used to get in the Commons when we were freshmen
(freshpeople; sorry, I forgot it is necessary to be politically correct at Davidson). I mean a steak that is about
an inch thick, preferably a ribeye, that has been sprinkled with a little garlic salt and cooked so that it
is a little pink on the inside. With it there mustbe a big baked potato piping hot, just out of
the oven, and smothered in melted butter. Now that’s a meal. Some people think that it is wrong to eat
meat. That makes about as much sense as a football bat. Still, if you are a vegetarian, more power to
you. There is nothing wrong with that. You just happen to be missing out on one of life’s simple pleasures.
Oh well, your loss. Vegetables are something I just do not eat. Why don’t I eat vegetables? That’s simple, too.
Vegetables taste bad. I have tried to eat salads, but they make me gag. When you were a little kid,
did you ever chew on a piece of grass? Maybe not, but I did, and it’s not that great. That’s
what lettuce tastes like to me—grass. Cows eat grass, people don’t. My parents tried to make me sit at the
table until I finished my vegies, but it simply did not work. Basically, they had to give up. I avoid
eating vegetables at all costs. At lunch at my fraternity house, we occasionally have these little, round pizzas that have
all kinds of vegetables on them. I scrape off every single one of them before taking a bite. It seems
like every time we eat those things, I sit next to someone who can’t believe what I am doing. If
I don’t, I can count on Rod Carter to question my eating habits. By the way, squash is a vegetable
that I simply don’t understand. It looks like a diseased cucumber. Still, it is undeniable that vegetables are healthy. I
realize that if I don’t start eating them I may die young. I’ve begun trying to force myself to eat
salads, but I am not doing a good job. Salads still remind me of grass. At any rate, you militant
vegetarians should try to understand all of us meat-lovers. (Can vegetarians be militant?) Meat is good. Well, I gotta go.
The grill is heated up, and I have a big, juicy ribeye waiting for me. Meat, it's what's for dinner
some say. Others disagree, and the debate rages on. Vegetarians reap the rewards of their eating habits.

By Lillian Roe

I realize that many of you who know me are probably shaking your heads right now as you learn that
I am writing an article on being a vegetarian. But wait! This is not a sermon on the evils of
eating animal flesh in an attempt to convert the Davidson student body to a vegetarian society; it is simply an
explanation of the reasons why many people choose not to eat meat and an effort to clear any misconceptions people
might have about vegetarians. Vegetarianism has gone from being almost unheard of in our country ten or twenty years ago,
to being almost trendy in our society today. In 1992, the number of vegetarians on the Davidson campus was 7.5%,
and I would not be surprised if that number were much larger today. But why are people making this decision
not to eat meat? The practice of not eating meat is not a new one in the world. In fact,
most of the people in our world have a vegetarian diet. Third-world countries do not eat meat on a regular
basis because they do not have the economic resources or amount of land space needed to raise livestock. Ninety percent
of India is vegetarian for these reasons and for religious reasons as well. Most Indians are Hindu, and Hindus not
only hold the cow to be a sacred animal, but also believe that at death you are reborn into another
life form. This new life form could be anything from a blade of grass to a chicken, and who would
want to make the mistake of accidentally eating great uncle John who was just reincarnated as that chicken? By examining
these other cultures that do not eat meat, we have been able to analyze the practice of eating meat in
our own culture. As a result, a number of arguments about the benefits of a meatless diet have developed, and
a number of vegetarians have popped up in America.

One reason many people choose a vegetarian diet is for health purposes. After World War II, scientists began to do
serious research on vegetarian diets. In a study on diet and culture, researchers found that the Vilcambas of Ecuador, the
Abkhasians of Pakistan, and the Hunzas of the USSR have the longest life expectancies in the world. The diets of
these groups consist of only 1.5% meat and dairy products, and these people have very full and active lives, showing
no signs of degenerative diseases. This study is just one that provoked a closer study on the health benefits of
not eating meat. It has now been discovered that the causes of atherosclerosis can be attributed to the consumption of
meat. This disease causes the arteries to become blocked by the fatty and waxy deposits of meat and meat products
building up on the inner walls. This makes the arteries become narrower, therefore constricting the blood flow to the heart
and brain, resulting in many cases of heart attacks or strokes. Consequently, fifty percent of all deaths in the U.S.
are caused by heart attacks and strokes. Dean Ornish, a cardiovascular surgeon in California, has developed a program for patients
with heart trouble in which he actually reverses the disease. He places the patients on strict vegetarian diets and puts
them on an exercise program, using no medicine or drugs. This program has had a remarkable success rate, curing almost
95% of its patients.

See Vegies on page 12
