The Davidsonian

“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXIV MONDAY, MARCH 8, 1993 NUMBER 19

Administration Reduces Faculty Course Load
System Designed to Increase Time for Research and Attention to Students
By Shaye Benton

In the completion of a long process begun seven years ago, Davidson College has officially reduced the faculty course load
to ten courses taught over a two-year time period. The recent action will complete Davidson’s gradual transition to the semester
system from the former system based on three quarters. Immediately after the change in systems several years ago, faculty temporarily
accommodated their course loads from teaching nine courses per year (three each quarter) to five and a half per year.

The recent step finalizes the adjustment by now requiring faculty to teach five courses each school year instead of the
former five and a half courses. A larger faculty increased by fifteen since 1988 now allows professors to teach the
originally intended five courses per year. Dean Robert C. Williams, Dean of Faculty and Vice-President for Academic Affairs, talks about
the new teaching load in a recently released faculty handout: “This is desirable for the College, consistent with the teaching
situation at our peer institutions, and possible in large measure because of the success to date of the Campaign for
Davidson.”

The change is designed to give professors more time to dedicate to their fields while continuing to apportion quality time
to students. Faculty members should now have greater opportunity to keep up in their respective areas while not feeling time
constraints in preparing classes. Always committed to giving students first priority, professors can continue to work with students individually, keep
long office hours, and spend quality time with their advisees. In addition, the administration hopes to be able to more
easily recruit faculty because of the more appealing reduced course load.

To fulfill this transition, Davidson must make some adjustments. For instance, the Registrar will slightly raise course ceilings wherever necessary.
Department chairs will reduce the number of team-taught courses. Chairs will decide which courses in their department can be taught
less frequently or dropped from the curriculum. Faculty members will generally schedule their sabbaticals.

See "Load" on page 3

RLO Reneges on No-Cluster Policy
By Sally Stone

For the past two weeks, The Residence Life Office’s clustering policy has been the center of campus discussion. Following an
SGA proposal and CCRL meeting, the Residence Life Office has revised the policy. This week, Richard Terry, the Director of
Residence Life, announced that two-room clusters will be allowed. This decision followed much campus concern for the lack of consultation
involved in changing a policy affecting only students.

The Student Government Association agreed and endorsed a letter to Richard Terry at their meeting Tuesday, March 2. The letter,
written by B.J. Rudell, sophomore senator, proposed “limiting the number of cluster groups to two or three sets of roommates.”
Alice Spivey, SGA Vice President, noted that the SGA "supports inclusiveness,” but does not feel that eliminating clusters is the
way to achieve it.

The issue was again debated at Thursday’s Council on Campus and Religious Life meeting. With Richard Terry present, the committee
presented several reasons in support of clustering, like compatibility of hallmates; the environment of friendship and relaxation; and the difficulty
which would arise in choosing a single roommate, rather than a group. They agreed with the SGA’s concern about forced
interaction and its negative reception. In the meeting, Terry agreed to review the policy and respond.

See Richard Terry's response to the school. Page 3.

On Track to Spring...
Sophomore Joanna Boyd takes advantage of the sunny afternoon by exercising at Richardson Field. Because the Athletic Department reduced the
track to three lanes for the Soccer Final Four, the Facilities Planning Committee is studying the possibility of building aNew
Complex. Photo by Casey Rogers

Soccer/Track Complex Considered by Facilities Planning Committee

By Mary McCrory

The NCAA soccer tournament, while bringing tremendous benefits to Davidson and the soccer program, was not without sacrifice. In order
to accommodate the dimensions of a soccer field, it was necessary to widen Richardson field. As a result, the track
was reduced from six lanes to three.

The present track is in poor condition and has been for several years. According to Sterling Martin, the Assistant Director
of Athletics and former track coach, “The surface was put down in 1974. It is a Uniroyal surface, which is
rubberized asphalt. Over a period of time, the rubber works itself out of the asphalt.” Not only that, tree roots
have worked their way into the track on the southeast side, along with a lot of standing water.

Such conditions have been hard on the track program. Men’s track coach Gary Andrew commented, “When recruits come to Baker,
it makes an impact. Presently, our track does not have a positive impact on recruits.” Apparently, it does not have
a positive impact on Davidson track team members either. According to women’s track coach Beth Manson, “I think it leads
to some of the injuries we have.”

If the track program at Davidson is to continue, a new facility is required. Obviously, the track team needs an
improved practice facility, but it also needs a place to hold home meets. Even before the track was reduced to
three lanes, only 2 or 3 meets a year were held at home because of the hard surface.

Like any other major undertaking, building a new facility will be very expensive. There has been concern that money spent
on a track and soccer complex will drain money out of other projects like the Union or a new science
building. According to Lee Sargent, Assistant to the Athletic Director for Special Projects, “Money is not going to come out
of any other project for this project. Period.” The money required to build the track will have to be raised
by the Athletics Department. Funds from the Campaign for Davidson are not available for this, because most of it is
already designated for -

See "Track" on page 2

---

Inside This Week

Man Flashes Student in Chambers

By Mandy Curtis

Indecent exposure is not what a student expects to see in Chambers at 11:00 a.m. on a Friday morning. However,
Freshman Katy Moore was the victim of this incident on February 26. While on the pay phone by the south
end of Chambers she was “flashed” by a man who appeared to be 30 years old.

According to Moore, it happened while classes were in session and no one else was in the hall. A Caucasian
male weighing about 160 pounds and standing six feet tall with dark hair and a full beard walked in the
back entrance of the first floor near the elevator. Moore described the “shady guy” as wearing grey sweat pants and
a dark trench coat. The man passed Moore while she was on the phone with her mother. He then passed
her a second time and exited the same back door. After only a few minutes, the man returned. He walked
back into the building and stopped in front of the elevators. According to Moore, it was then that he opened
his trench coat and exposed himself to her. He was wearing a black garter belt. Moore said that he stood
five feet in front of her for about five seconds. Without a word or expression -

See "Flasher" page 3

---

NEWS: Two students support Co-ed eating house. Page 4.

OPINIONS: Scott & Deidra talk about double standards. Page 6.

SPORTS: Men's Hoops finishes season in Asheville. Page 10.

ARTS: Rachel recommends Lancaster's Bar-b-que. Page 8. Scott McLean reviews Groundhog Day. Page 8.

First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC 28036
