THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1993 15

Field hockey looks forward to another successful season

By Mandy Curtis

The field hockey team won their first official game of the season on Sunday, September 5 against Appalachian State University.
The Wildcats traveled to Boone, North Carolina to defeat Appalachian with a score of 2-0. The Cats dominated the game
35-7 in shots.

Senior Jill Bennett, a defensive player, scored the first goal of the game in the first half. Sophomore Holly Kledis,
an offensive player, doubled the score with another goal in the second half. Goalies Emily Coleman, a senior, and Mary
Ferguson, a junior, both saw time in the game and had two saves each.

The game against Appalachian was the first of several turf games that the Wildcats will play this season. According to
Captain and senior Suzanne Hardesty, the team had a “really shaky start because of the turf” on Sunday. However, with
some adjustments, the team started “playing their game” using many small passes.

According to some of the players on the Davidson team, Appalachian was very “cocky” about the game on Sunday because
they thought Davidson had lost their entire team with last year’s senior class. However, Davidson proved to be the better
team with much experience.

The Appalachian players were not the only people who did not know what to expect of the Davidson hockey team
this year, according to Hardesty. With the loss of five starting seniors last year, Hardesty thought the year would be
a “rebuilding year” for a younger, less experienced team. However, Hardesty reassessed that the starting line-up is very strong. “We
work well together; we’re an experienced team.”

According to Hardesty, the hockey team, including the newest nine additions, has many things to work on for the many
turf games. Hardesty said, “We need to take it one game at a time.”

This weekend the Cats will go to Washington, D.C. where they will play Georgetown University and Towson State University. These
two turf games will give the hockey team three games experience before they play Duke away on September 15.

The hockey team began the season with three sessions a day during pre-season. Then on Saturday, September 4 the Wildcats
played an Alumni game. Four of the graduated senior players returned to Davidson to be defeated by the varsity team
with a score of 3-0. Despite the rain, the game prepared the Cats for Sunday’s game against Appalachian.

Men's soccer enters season with high hopes

Soccer continued from page 13

than junior Neal Andrews. Slagle comments that “nobody works harder at his craft than Neal Andrews... He is ready to
play and the players are ready to play for him.”

Other set starters will be seniors Ed Denning at sweeper and Andy Haile in the midfield along with sophomores Ryan
Northington at left midfield and Ian O’Brien, who does not have a set position yet, but will start. This leaves
three starting slots open for grabs.

Two other players to note are junior Zack Eastman and senior Bryce Smith. Both are recovering from injuries, but should
see a lot of playing time once they are healthy. Those competing for these spots include a strong freshman class,
that has five players on the Varsity roster. Slagle believes that this may be the best class ever at Davidson,
but this cannot be determined until 1997.

Junior John Hudson lines up to hit a penalty kick while fellow junior John Olin looks on during a pre-season
practice.

The freshmen include last year’s leading high school scorer in Florida, Robert Clarke from Pensacola. Other freshmen from Florida are
Fernando Campos from Miami and Coley Dominiak from Ponte Vedra Beach. The remaining freshmen are Keith Kleeman from Cincinnati and
Chad Lagerway from Elmhurst, IL. From impressive results in practice, Campos and Kleeman have strong cases for starting positions.

Anchored by junior Mills Ariail, the football team's defense should remain solid

Football continued from page 13

there are some very capable wide receivers in Kelly Shirley, Ward Davis, Del Turner, and Ike Bailey. Junior running backs
Bruce Bannister and Shane Mills will carry the ball for the Cats this year. Last year, Bannister was second on
the team with 353 rushing yards.

Reserve quarterback Kevin Holzworth will play a lot this season; many timesIn the same backfield as Howell, Landis commented, “We
want to get the maximum out of their talent and could use both of them in the backfield at the
same time. Our basic offense will be the same as last year. We’ll continue to throw the football a lot,
but we want to get the option going a little more.”

With eight returning starters, Davidson’s defense remains solid. Senior safety Frank Houghton, who led the team with four sacks last
year, will join Smith in the defensive backfield. Junior Jason Branch will man the same corner spot as he did
a year ago when he racked up 43 tackles and three interceptions. Davidson also expects help from junior Andre Ferree.

Davidson’s linebackers this year include John Dalton, Bill Evans, Mark Hemby, and Chris Leak. Dalton leads the team with 195
career tackles and Evans led the team the past two seasons with 84 tackles each. Leak makes the big plays
for the Cats. Last year his statistics included 78 tackles, two caused fumbles, and three interceptions.

Davidson’s front four will create havoc on their opponents this season. They are led by Mills Ariail, who at 6-4,
285 pounds, is hard for any offensive line to contain. Coach Landis described this year’s defense: “Defensively, we have a
great small college player in Mills Ariail. He’ll anchor our defensive line. Mix in Chris Leak and Alden Smith and
you’ve got the makings of an effective defense. Chris and Alden are both outstanding athletes.”

Curtis Burns, Bo Bartholomew, and James Cassidy will join Ariail on the defensive line. Seniors Chris Freer and Tim Carrigan
contributed in the past and their experience will come in handy. All in all, 1993 should turn out to be
an exciting year for Davidson football. With the fresh ideas of a new coach and the experience of a team
loaded with seniors, the Wildcats expect to improve on last year’s record of 5-5.

The Davidsonian—We don’t take Labor Day off

As usual, the Wildcats have one of the toughest schedules in the nation, facing 7 of the top 20 teams
in the nation. This stiff competition should help the young players mature quickly. The home schedule is excellent for soccer
fans, featuring matches against UNCC, Duke, Furman, Wake Forest, NC State, Appalachian State, and Marshall. The Southern Conference should be
more balanced this year as the top three teams all lost seven or eight starters. Also new is the guarantee
of an automatic bid to the NCAA Tournament for the Southern Conference tournament champion. This honor makes the conference tournament
all the more important.

With the loss of star Rob Ukrop in the middle of the front line, fans should expect more play from
the sidelines to exploit Ben Hayes’ talents at finishing crossed balls. Slagle expects a very offensive team with a pressure
zone defense.

There are two new rules this year that affect play. The first prohibits the keeper from picking up a ball
passed back to him by the feet (no passes from midfield for punts). The second gives the keeper only five
seconds to release the ball once he gains full control (no stalling). Both should make the game faster and more
offensive.

There is a great deal of optimism surrounding the 1993 season. The team is primed and strong enough to defend
their Southern Conference title and make an appearance in the NCAA tournament for the second year in a row. A
big factor in the success of last year’s team was the outstanding fan support at every meet. This fan support
is essential for the team’s success and will be needed for the 7 home games this season.

While it will be very difficult to outdo last year’s sensational performance, the ‘Cats are excited about the year’s prospects.

Suite A - 104
5010 E. Shea Blvd., Scottsdale, AZ 85254 USA
or Call: (602) 951-1700

AIRFARES EUROPE
Special Student and Faculty Airfares
Scheduled Major Airlines - No Charters
50 U.S. Departure Cities
75 Foreign Destinations
International Student Exchange ID Cards
International Faculty ID Cards
International Youth Hostel Handbooks
Eurail and Britrail Passes
Let's Go Europe Guides
American Express Travelers Cheques
Groups or Individuals
ASK ABOUT OUR EXPRESS ID CARD SERVICE
"SERVING STUDENTS SINCE 1958"

Name:
Street:
State:
