THE DAVIDSONIAN ELECTION '93

MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 1993

1993 SGA ELECTIONS

SGA VICE-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES

Editor's Note: The Davidsonian asked the candidates for Student Government Vice-President to respond to four questions regarding their candidacy. 
(1) What are your qualifications for the job of SGA Vice-President? 
(2) If elected, what will be your primary interests/goals as SGA Vice-President? 
(3) As SGA Vice-President, how do you plan to work with the SGA President and the SGA body as a whole to get things done? 
(4) Why do you want to be SGA Vice-President?

Steven Brackbill

I admit it: I was apathetic. That seems to be the biggest political buzzword on campus lately, and I believe there is good reason for that. It is certainly a word that describes my state of mind as a freshman. You see, in high school I served as class president for four years on a fairly active Student Council that made several significant changes in life at our school. When I arrived at Davidson, I decided that I had put in my time already, that I wasn’t needed, and that I would be happier just taking a passive role. In reality, I had become apathetic. Gradually, however, I began to notice problems around campus, things that affected all of us. More and more often I found myself wanting to make changes in life at Davidson. This is why I decided to run. I know how to serve, how to work with committees, and how to get things done. I have experience and ability. More importantly, I have a strong desire to be a part of SGA. I am willing to work hard to make improvements in life on this campus. I feel that this desire is my greatest qualification.

One of the problems that I strongly feel needs to be addressed is that of the ever-shortening exam period. I feel that the exam period has slowly become too short to allow any semblance of schedule autonomy. The tradition of self-scheduled exams is one that sets Davidson apart from other schools. I consider it a privilege granted to us by the Honor Code, and I hate to see it gradually taken away. One option that I would like to pursue which might alleviate some of the pressure, for the short term at least, is to offer a nighttime exam period. This, I think, would give people some much-needed flexibility in their exam schedules.

Another problem that deserves a lot of attention is the role of the College Union in the social life at Davidson. Davidson has a somewhat limited number of entertainment options simply by virtue of its rural location. On weekends, the Court parties cannot keep everyone entertained all the time. Weekdays are even more of a problem this year, because of the new limits placed on the number of weekday parties. A school like Davidson has an acute need for an active, dynamic, and entertaining Student Union.

Another concern of mine is that the new Alcohol Policy comes up for re-evaluation this spring, and I feel that several improvements can realistically be made that would greatly improve the situation on the Court. One point that I feel needs attention is the regulation on the number of weekday parties which has left most weeknights without any options for refuge from dorm life. Even if Patterson Court cannot offer a great deal of variety of activities to students, it can give people a much-needed break from work and a chance to socialize. Another point that needs reconsideration is that parties are shut down earlier this year despite the fact that people’s bedtimes have not changed. On a few occasions...

See "Brackbill" on page 6

B.J. Rudell

(1) Having been continually involved in the SGA since September of my freshman year, I now seek the Vice Presidency of the Student Government Association. As a senator, I have concentrated my efforts behind a number of tasks. On the request of a faculty member and several students, I worked one-on-one with the Chairman of the English Department and successfully lobbied for journalism to be incorporated into a writing class. In response to the library’s former weekend closing times—midnight on Fridays and 6 p.m. on Saturdays—I coordinated a new schedule with the Library Director that, according to students’ reactions, better suits our needs. I have continually met with the Dean of Students to push for extending the hours of the Baker Sports Complex. Our persistent pressure on Baker’s administrators has resulted in the gym closing at 7 p.m. on weekend evenings rather than 6 p.m., but there is much more work to be done. As the appointed head of the Trustee Contact Committee, I have sought to strengthen communication between students...and the most powerful group of Davidson policy-makers. Remarks I and other students in the program have received from our Trustee liaisons support the notion that they value and heed our opinions, and that this program is continually growing stronger. I will use the relationships I’ve established with several of the school’s influential leaders, as well as the invaluable experience I’ve obtained through working with them, to strengthen my role as Vice President.

(2) Communication: Student apathy is of great concern to me; an organization representing an indifferent body is merely representing itself. The weekly “SGA Minutes” alone are not the answer to the problem, for most students never get to see them. If elected, every student who wishes to remain informed on SGA doings will have the opportunity to do so. As an initial step, we will let each student know at the outset of the term what we hope to accomplish over the course of the year. Everyone will know when and where the Student Government Association meets, who their representatives are, and how their opinions can be heard. Also, we will familiarize you on a regular basis with the issues currently being discussed by our body. This can be done through extensive articles in the Davidsonian, or through flyers under each person’s door. By this token, no policy will be passed without your informed input. I have discussed these ideas with the presidential candidates, and they have both agreed to pursue this course of action. It is my hope that you will eventually use the SGA for its primary purpose—to serve your needs.

Harmony: I will not serve a student body that is not tolerant towards its fellow students. If you are prejudiced in any way, I do not want your vote. It’s just that simple. We must push for greater diversity on campus. Out of over 2100

See "Rudell” on page 6

Spivey

1. I believe anyone in the position of VP should have a strong knowledge of the workings behind the SGA in order to know what he/she can accomplish. I have actively served as Freshman Class President and Junior Class Senator, both of which have given me insight into the workings and responsibilities of the SGA. I served on the Student Executive Committee which advises the SGA President and plans agendas. The Vice President is responsible for the SGA standing committees and appoints the chairperson for these committees. I have served twice as a chairperson for the Phonathon Committee and have been a member of the Trustee Contact Committee where I keep my trustee informed about the issues around campus so that he can make decisions based on student feeling. I have also served on the CCRL which is a Student/Faculty committee the Vice President helps organize. Currently, I serve as Co-Chair on the Council on Academic Affairs which has enabled me to work with faculty on issues such as drop/add, minus grades, the school calendar, and optional class days. I also serve on the Alcohol Policy ad hoc committee which has analyzed the alcohol policy and is writing a report recommending changes. This year I have also been in charge of the Student/Faculty Roundtables which enable students and faculty to gather and focus on a certain issue around the dinner table in a non-academic setting. As a hall counselor this year, I have also witnessed firsthand the viewpoints of the freshmen who will be here for three more years and know I could represent them. I feel it is important that I am the only Junior running for this position because I have witnessed the major changes Davidson has undergone in the past three years and can understand students’ dissatisfaction with aspects of Davidson life. I have been working towards this position since Freshman year and believe my qualifications will make the VP role one that will work for the students and not just be a figurehead.

2. I believe apathy is a huge problem on campus and feel that this problem is linked to a lack of communication and student input in school policy. One of the VP’s main duties is to find from the student population effective committee heads for the standing committees of the SGA. These committees are a vital part of the SGA but they are so often forgotten. By now, committees such as the Security Committee and Campus Services and Facilities Committee should have pushed through better lighting on campus and the building of kiosks that could be placed in the center of campus as an information source. The SGA needs to make these committees a viable part of the SGA so that they are not

See "Spivey" on page 6