THE DAVIDSONIAN. NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1993

F-Crew plays major role in planning a Friday evening of fun

By Laura Seib

To show spirit for all student athletes and the last football game of the season against the Bridgewater Eagles, the
Student Union and the Athletic Department sponsored the "Earth, Wind, and Fire" event. The Union Outpost, Concert and Social committees,
F-Crew, planned a pep rally and bonfire Friday night on Patterson Court. On Saturday after the game, there was a
post-party celebration for the football players.

Earth, Wind, and Fire, manned by F-Crew members, began with a hayride through the town at 7:00 p.m. and ended
with the sounds of the cover band Root Doctors at midnight. Leaving from the Outpost from 7-9, a horse-drawn carriage
filled with hay and wool blankets pulled students through the town in fifteen-minute intervals. “We circled around the campus, down
Main Street, and then returned to the Outpost,” said freshman Martin Young.

At 8:15 p.m., the Root Doctors played their first set until the pep rally started. As part of the pep
rally, all Patterson Court Houses were asked to participate in the Bridgewater Eagle Burn by submitting an eagle to be
burned in the bonfire. For showing the most creativity, Figi was awarded $50 from the Athletic Department. With hot dogs
roasting and the band finishing its second set, the fire continued until midnight. “The bonfire was huge and really warm.
All the football players came out for the pep rally,” said freshman Shelley Elifson.

The committees had been planning for this event for three and a half weeks, according to sophomore Rosie Molinary, F-Crew
advisor. Young, who also helped with the festivities, said, “A lot of people came out, especially for the hay rides
and the pep rally.”

Originally planned to be a pre-game tailgate party, Saturday’s support changed to post-game activities. “F-Crew handled a post-game party to
congratulate the players for an improved and successful season,” said Molinary.

About the F-Crew

By Carrie Blackburn

For the past four years, F-Crew, a Union Committee composed of representatives from each freshmen hall, has tried to introduce
freshmen to the activities of the Union. Meeting regularly, this “Freshmen Crew” of 51 members plans various activities of their
own as well as assisting with other Union-sponsored functions. This year they have already hosted two study breaks including one
on November 9th at the Union Outpost which featured the acoustic tunes of Miles Mowry. F-Crew was also an integral
part of last Friday’s "Earth, Wind, and Fire" hayride, bonfire, and pep rally. Members ran the hayride and served as
fire monitors for the blaze.

Co-Chairperson Kristy Kops comments on their purpose: “Our goal this year is to make F-Crew known. It is the job
of the people on F-Crew to get freshmen involved with the Union so they know there is an alternative choice
for what to do.” Since students are constantly bombarded with flyers about the activities of Patterson Court, the Union activities
are often harder to publicize. “It is by no means a competi-

SGA debates makeup of social group senators

By Rachel Dunifon

While many Davidson students watched Perot and Gore fight it out on Larry King Live last Tuesday, Davidson’s Student Senate
engaged in a milder debate of their own. At issue was senatorial representation of various campus groups: Currently, one representative
of the international students sits on the Senate, but doesn’t have a vote. Earlier this semester, when a charter wasgranted
to the International Student Association (ISA), the question of whether or not their new representative would now have a vote
arose. However, this would mean that international students would be unable to vote in Independent senatorial elections. The ISA decided
to keep things the way they are, continuing to make their voices heard through their Independent senators. This brought the
issue of the Black Student Coalition to the surface, as their representative does have a vote. However, this is because
BSC members do not vote in elections for Independent senators. Additionally, BSC members who also belong to other houses can
only vote for one senator. Efforts to clarify these voting procedures will begin with the next round of SGA elections
in the spring.

To add to the debate, junior Leigh Rawdon proposed changing the way that women’s eating houses are represented. She suggested
that houses that are over twice as large as most houses be allowed two senators to better represent Patterson Court
women. Currently, each eating house and fraternity elects one senator, despite their size. The technicalities and validity of this issue
will be discussed at the next SGA meeting.

News...write for it. Call Mandy at 6252

To add to the court, if anything just to complement it,” cautions Rosie Molinary who serves as F-Crew’s representative on
the Union Board. She continues that “there are some freshmen who come in with some new ideas. This is a
good way to keep their hall involved, and it's the only real body that lets freshmen have a voice.” Fourth
Cannon’s Representative, Katherine Ross, feels F-Crew “provides a way for freshmen who are not sure if they want to be
involved with student government to get exposed to it.”

Third annual community dinner sees SUCCESS
By Meg Wolff

Davidson Together and Davidson/Cornelius Parks and Recreation Department hosted what has become a Davidson tradition, the community dinner. On Wednesday,
November 10 beginning at 6 p.m. at the Ada Jenkins Center, the dinner featured the Gethsemane Gospel Singers. Members from
Project Life, a campus group that sponsors the Bone Marrow Drive on campus, also spoke briefly to encourage more community
members to participate in the marrow drive.

The community dinner began three years ago through the initiative of Davidson Together, a Reach Out program which aims to
unify the community and cross racial, age, and other boundaries to tie the college closely to the community. The program
has been beneficial in alleviating tension between the college and the community and also in creating closer ties between students
and community members. Casey Hawthorne, Jarrell Palmer, and Meg Wolff, the coordinators of Davidson Together, were excited about the event
and received many positive responses from students, faculty, and community members. All students were invited.

WE WELCOME DAVIDSON STUDENTS AND PARENTS
We're ready to serve you with all your favorite fresh seafood, steaks, pasta, pizza from our deli, fresh bread and
desserts, and fresh roasted coffees. Spacious bar, TVs, live entertainment, patio dining. You'll feel comfortable at KP’s. Call for reservations...
896-0085... or just drop by. LOCATED IN Shops On The Green, Exit 25 (Adjacent to Comfort Inn)

The Davidsonian
News Editor: Mandy Curtis
Towner Blackstock
Staff Writers: Court McBryde, Rachel Dunifon, Sally Stone, Brett Marston, Katherine Hash, Jay Jennings, Krisy Ford, Ashlyn Dannelly, Martha Knight,
Meg Wolff, Susan Warren, Wendy Lee, Carrie Blackburn, Mary Clare Jalonick, Christy Block, Jenny Schroeter, Lexy Devane.
