6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS - MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1993

The Week in Washington

Senate passes Clinton's Service Plan
By Brett Marston

Even as NAFTA and health care develop into political nightmares for him, President Clinton did see a dream fulfilled recently as the Senate approved the $1.6 billion National Service Trust program, which will provide scholarships of up to $4,725 for about 100,000 students who choose to perform local community service for a year. Under this new plan, which will become law on October 1st, individuals aged 17 or older will also receive federally funded stipends from local service programs, as well as health and child care. Students will be eligible to receive the money for work in various state and non-profit organizations, such as local hospitals, police departments, and local Red Cross chapters. Groups such as Teach for America and Habitat for Humanity will also benefit from this package.

Mr. Eli Segal, who heads the Office of National Service, hopes that the new federal programs will be ready by next June, and that participants will start work in September, according to the Christian Science Monitor. In addition, as of the 1994-95 school year, students who borrow from the government will be able to repay new college loans according to a percentage of their level of income after graduation, instead of in pre-determined monthly payments. Supporters of the plan hope that this will encourage more graduates to work in service-oriented jobs, which usually pay less money than jobs in business and industry.

The final version of the package is much smaller than Clinton’s original proposal, which would have cost more than twice as much and provided up to $10,000 in scholarship money for a year of service. Newsweek reports that as the Administration tries to slim down the budget, some educators feared that Clinton’s plan would reduce the number of Pell grants, which enable over four million needy students to attend college.

Photo courtesy of the White House
President Bill Clinton at a rally for his National Service program this summer. The program is designed to give students an opportunity to pay off college loans by serving the public.

Perspectives

A rising tide that lifts all boats?
“In an anemic economy, growth is a perfectly understandable objective. Only the very envious would find comfort in an economy in which everyone was getting poorer--but the rich at the fastest rate. But growth is not always a rising tide that lifts all boats. After all, the 1980s saw a spurt in inequality notwithstanding the longest peacetime economic expansion since the Second World War. The one mitigating factor--the factor that perhaps keeps a lid on public discontent over the increasingly unequal division of earnings--is mobility. Americans seem willing to tolerate wide gaps between rich and poor so long as they view the door of opportunity as open.”
-From the September 11 edition of The National Journal.

The demand for drugs
“Ultimately...we only fool ourselves if we think this nation’s drug problems can be solved in foreign lands. Americans want illicit drugs--and so far too many people have so little to lose that they’re willing to risk arrest and imprisonment in order to peddle those drugs or to get high. Unless we figure out how to curtail demand in this country, we’re guaranteed to fail everywhere else.”
-From the editorial in the September 17 edition of the Raleigh News and Observer

Attaching strings to money
“Republicans may be devoted, as they say they are, to the cause of decentralization and increased power for the states. But in the Reagan era, they all too often used ‘federalism’ as a cover for simply cutting federal funds and letting states fend for themselves. Mr. Clinton is obviously no enemy of federal spending, yet he also believes in giving more authority to the states. This gives him a chance to get Congress and the nation’s governors talking plainly to each other about how many strings Washington needs to attach to its money.”
-From the editorial in the September 17 edition of The Washington Post

Disproving oppression and murder
“The end of the Cold War has liberated us in more ways than we might have thought, liberated us from the tyranny of Communism and liberated us to reexamine the liberalism that is now triumphant. For more than half a century, confronted with the double threat of Nazism and Communism, the urgent problem facing us was: How can liberalism defend itself against totalitarianism? How can a society that is individualistic, pluralistic, pacific, devoted to private pleasures and domestic tranquility, prevail against an enemy that is collectivist, authoritarian, militaristic, and mobilized for power and conquest? The defeat of Nazism and the collapse of the Soviet empire have conclusively proved that totalitarianism is not only oppressive and murderous; it is inefficient and fatally vulnerable.”
-From an article by Gertrude Himmelfarb entitled “Liberty: One very simple principle?” and appearing in the Autumn edition of The American Scholardents to attend college. Senate Republicans complained that the leaner version of the bill is still too expensive, at a cost of about $16,000 a year per student. Pell grants cost the government $1,300 a year per student. Senator Slade Gorton, R-Wash., attacked the bill as “another almost open-ended new spending program,” as quoted in the Congressional Quarterly. The bill which the Senate approved does cap spending at $300 million for fiscal 1994, $500 million for 1995, and $700 million for 1996.

Although he supports the idea of the plan, Gordon Peck, Associate Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid here at Davidson, has some reservations about providing monetary rewards for service work. Indeed, this was one of the main criticisms of the plan since its beginning. “It may push students who are borderline into considering service options,” says Peck. According to Peck, a consortium of schools has pledged to match federal service money with money of their own.

All but four Democrats in the Senate supported the bill, and all but six Republicans opposed it. Senators Helms, Faircloth, Hollings, Thurmond, and Coverdell all voted against the bill. Senator Nunn from Georgia voted for it.

ELSEWHERE

Dean Rusk Program

Somalia: time to rethink Operation Restore Hope?
By Gautam Srinivasan

In December of 1992, the United States sent troops into Somalia. Their goal was to help alleviate the famine that gripped the country and threatened much of the population. The mission, ambitiously entitled Operation Restore Hope, was also supposed to calm the anarchy loosed upon the country by the many warring factions. The troops landed with no resistance and soon controlled the major cities in Somalia. Food distribution lines were opened and the goodwill mission seemed to be a success. President Bush even indicated that our troops may come home before the new year.

Nearly ten months later, however, U.S. troops are still in Somalia along with other members of a United Nations peacekeeping force. Violence is again commonplace as members of the peacekeeping force are subject to attack by Somali gunmen. What has happened to so drastically change the situation? The answer is, of course, complex, but we may look at one key factor.

One reason has to do with the mission itself. While relieving the famine was an obvious goal, the aim as far as the political situation was more ambiguous. From the outset, no definite strategy was devised to deal with the roving bands of gunmen controlled by Somalia’s warlords. The U.S. seemed to play the situation by ear, not quite sure what to expect. The situation took a dramatic turn early this summer when 23 Pakistani peacekeepers were killed in an ambush. The attackers were purportedly followers of General Mohammad Farah Aidid, one of the most powerful Somali warlords. The U.N. painted Aidid as the chief obstacle to resolving the political crisis and consequently focused its efforts on getting him out of the way. The peacekeepers attacked Aidid’s headquarters in attempts to capture or kill him. These efforts not only failed but served to turn the Somali people against the peacekeepers. The situation has become increasingly murkier with the passage of time.

Many in Congress have now begun to question U.S. involvement in Somalia. The lack of a clear policy has hurt the American effort. In the minds of many, it is uncertain when, and under what conditions, U.S. troops may return home. The possibility of a drawn-out U.S. presence leaves many in Congress with cold feet. Indeed, the critical question may now be ‘why are U.S. troops in Somalia?’ One could argue that the United States has completed its goal. The famine and starvation that brought the U.S. to Somalia is, for all practical purposes, over. The malnutrition rate among children under five years old has dropped from 60% to 10%. The mission has lost focus and appears to be going nowhere fast. The peacekeepers have lost the support of the Somali people and are now the subject of frequent attacks. Even armed with the best intentions, is it possible to help a nation that apparently wants no help? With no end in sight, it may be time to rethink the United States’ commitment in Somalia.

HS Hwy 21 South, Cornelius

’S Seafood, BBQ & Catering

Save $3 on two Adult Dinner Entrees
Not redeemable at lunch
Dine-In or Take-Out Only
Only one coupon per couple per visit
As a courtesy to guests dining alone this coupon is redeemable for $1.50.
This coupon is not redeemable with any other coupon.
Must bring in this coupon for offer to be valid.
Offer expires: 11-24-93
892-3362
HOURS: Tuesday-Saturday 5pm-9pm

The Davidsonian
Your source for news.