THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1993 7

Short Story Continued from page 5

But Mr. and Mrs. Vanderland, they’s gone to work, too. I guess everybody’s got to have a job. I does the dustin’, washin’ and waxin’. I’m here to polish up and shine. And that’s how I knows Elizabeth Vanderland. Elizabeth, she ain’t at Paradise no more. Her maw dun sent her off to learn stuff and left her there. I knows ‘bout bein’ left, and it sure makes ya learn stuff alright. ‘Lizbeth’s a boarder. Ain’t nothin’ gonna come ‘tween me and her. But today’s differen’ I thinks, today Lizzy’s gonna come back for a break. And I knows how we’ll be best friends ‘cause I knows how much she needs me. I knows her so well already that I’s so excited to meet her.

Nothin’ in Lizzy’s room ever changes, ‘cept dust settles down everywhere. I thought ‘bout settlin’ down myself once, but with who? Nobody never loved me. Mamas don’t leave the children they loves. Lizzy knows. She got sent off, like you sends back a dress that’s the wrong size or color. Lizzy’s returned. I’s thinkin’ on the bus, I’s thinkin’ how I want to see her wear them clothes in her closet, them lacey white dresses with the matchin’ shoes. They looks like flowers, so clean and white, like angel dresses. I knows Lizzy’s an angel, too, ‘cause she’s got such pretty clothes. Maybe she’d even let me borrow them. I’m her same size. I knows ‘cause I tried ‘em on in fronta the dresser mirror, an’ Lizzy justa smiled up at me from her picture, as if to say how it was fittin’. That’s how come I knows she’s such a nice girl, too, ‘cause she’s always smilin’ in every picture I sees. She’s smilin’ really friendly-like, but always alone. I knows what it’s like to be alone, and not have no friends.

“I’s your friend.” I says to Lizzy’s pictures every day. “I’s your real friend.” Lizzy’s friends, they’s made up in her mind. I knows ‘cause I reads it in her diary. She makes up people and then makes up things to happen to them, and Lizzy’s always smack dab in the middle of the story. I thinks that’s so sad, that she pretends friends ‘cause she don’t have none. Lizzy don’t have no dolls neither. I guess that’s why she plays in her mind. I didn’t have no toys, but I couldn’t use none no how, didn’t have time. I had to grow up fast, and now I’s too old for my age. But I’s not too old for a friend, one to play house with.

I wishes I had me a present, a real present I could share with Liz. (The bus stops by the gate.) Present or not, I thinks, I’s here. When I gets off I sees them white queen’s lace flowers grow’n up on the other side of fence. I reaches out a hand and pulls. I picks them for Liz. I’ll give them to her presently, I’s nearly runnin’ up the drive. I’s so dizzy with thinkin’ ‘bout Liz, my head’s swimmin’, my heart’s poundin’, and my hands, they’s sweatin’ so’s I can hardly hold to them flowers without gettin’ them bent outa shape. These is Liz’s presence after all, so I gotta be careful. What’ll she say when she sees me?

I goes in the back door and straight up the stairs. When I reaches her room I sees her. She’s big as life, and it takes me a time ‘fore I recognizes her ‘cause she ain’t smilin’ like in her picture. Her face is flushed all red. She’s gotta be excited ‘bout me, too, I thinks. I steps toward her and I sees tears in her eyes—how miserable her life’s been!

“Liz—” I says but she cuts me off.

“To you I am Miss Elizabeth Shoreham Vanderland, and these are my belongings. I do notknow what you were looking for; however, you greatly misjudged me if you thought I would take no notice. Well, have you anything to say for yourself?”

I’m stunned. My tongue’s swelled up so even if I knew what to say I couldn’t say anything. Face down, I turn back, and behind me I see the dirt trail that had followed me from the time I’d picked the present in the garden. Well, I think, there’s another mess I’ve got to clean up, but really I’m what needs to be swept out... They’re right. I’m messed in the head.

“I see,” says Miss Elizabeth real short and stern, but she doesn’t. And I don’t either.

Sarah Zirkle is a Freshman.

The Industrial Sound of the Grunge Band The Ministry
by Peter Arnold

While I personally have nothing against country music (actually I do, it makes me violently ill), it is time that The Davidsonian present an ALTERNATIVE MUSIC COLUMN. This column will attempt to shine some light on music that you would not ordinarily hear on the John-Boy and Billy show. No singular musical style will dominate. O.K. Here is this week’s drivel.

Instead of the normal “Parental Advisory: Explicit Lyrics” label that this band was forced to put on the cover of their albums, the label should read, “Attention: Guaranteed To Scare The Hell Out Of Your Parents.” The band is Ministry, headed by the enigmatic Al Jourgensen. This guy is truly bizarre. The music is INDUSTRIAL, a mutated form of speed metal popularized in the summer of ‘91 by Nine Inch Nails at the first Lollapalooza concert. Basically, it is inhumanly fast and loud, with drum machines and synthesizers making up the bulk of the noise. Using a thousand different effects, Jourgensen screams his lyrics in a way that makes him sound like the anti-Christ. In addition to Jourgensen’s yelling, the band throws in a few samples utilizing everything from movies to other band’s lyrics.

If you do not have any Ministry albums, go out right now and buy the old live one entitled, In Case You Didn't Feel Like Showing Up. The cover depicts a guy putting his head through a car windshield and eating the dashboard. This album comes as close as possible to a live Ministry show and includes their hits (if you can call them that): “Deity,” “So What,” “Thieves,” and “Stigmata.” Every time I listen to these guys I find myself gritting my teeth and punching things. This seems to be a fairly universal reaction because when I went to see Ministry, I witnessed many people gritting their teeth and punching each other.

Their shows are another story. Before Perry Farrell signed them onto the new Lollapalooza tour last summer, Ministry was confined to dingy hardcore clubs that make 13-13 look like the Atlanta Symphony Hall. My brother said that in Milwaukee, the promoter had constructed a double thick chain-link fence from floor to ceiling to keep the fans from killing the band. In a club like this, the loudness must have passed the pain threshold because I saw them outside and couldn’t hear for a week afterwards.

This band is good. Buy their albums and listen to them as loud as you can stand. The new album, Psalm 69: The Way To Succeed and The Way To Suck Eggs, is good too, but I can’t tell you too much about it because someone came over to my house and stole it. I hope you are enjoying it, person!

So there is a taste of Ministry. Look forward to next week’s article on some other band, possibly Pantera.

Residence Life Wants You!
To Become a Resident Advisor

Feb. 11: Applications Due at RLO
Feb. 12: Interview Sign-Up
Feb. 17 & 24: Group Interviews
Mar. 10: Decisions Announced

Money-Status-Input-Experience
Apply Now