THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 5, 1993

Jessica Reinertsen Come on Down, You're the Next Contestant

By Ceci Combs

A Davidson senior was both shocked and excited to hear the familiar call of “Come on down! You are the next contestant on 'The Price Is Right!” Jessica Reinertsen, accompanied by seniors Anne Sjostrom and Elaine Bell, drove several hours and spent the duration of the morning standing in line at a Los Angeles studio in hopes of being chosen as contestants on the popular game show. Jessica obviously impressed the "Price Is Right" producers with her charm during her interview for the show because she was one of the few members of the audience chosen to participate in the first round of bidding.

Jessica had recently discussed the cost of bikes with fellow Warner Hall member Lindsay Boozer and was thus able to estimate the exact price of the bicycle up for bids. She won $100 in addition to the bike for this move and got to kiss Bob Barker in the process. Jessica played a pricing game in which she had to estimate the total price of five grocery items within five cents of the actual total. She overestimated the price of a bottle of bath oil by too much, but was not overly dismayed to lose her prize, a bedroom set. She made up for her slight overestimation by spinning well in the spin-off.

Profs. Holland, Jones Receive Grants NEH and NSF Sponsor Studies of Other Cultures

By College Relations

Dr. Gill Holland of the English department will spend next summer studying the causes of the 1989 student protests in Beijing’s Tiananmen Square. The National Endowment for the Humanities gave Holland a $3000 grant for the study which will begin with six weeks of reading at Davidson. Holland maintains that attributing the demonstrations to a call for American democracy and Western ideas ignores deep-seated Chinese traditions. Instead, Holland believes that the students' motivation involved anger about government corruption and a love for China.

"People say that the students were stirred up by Western ideas and were seeking to impose a US-style democracy, but I don’t think that’s true. I believe there were indigenous motives for their actions. They were looking for reform, fighting corruption in the system as Chinese have always tried to do. In that sense, what they did was nothing new, though the Western spotlight made it seem new to us,” says Holland.

Dr. Grant Jones, an anthropology professor, will participate in a recently funded archaeological project to reconstruct the political organization of the last unconquered Maya kingdom. Jones and his colleagues from Southern Illinois received a $194,000 grant from the National Science Foundation. The project evolved from Jones’ ethnohistorical work about the Spanish conquest in 1697 of the Itza Mayas of northern Guatemala. For nearly two centuries after the Spanish landed in Central America, the Itzas remained free from Spanish rule, maintaining their political and social systems long after other Mayan groups had been conquered. His research has garnered enough information to make possible an archaeological search this summer for several capital and provincial towns around Lake Peten Itza. Jones and his collaborators believe they can locate the ruins of other Itza habitations around the lake and in surrounding areas.

WARD CHURCHILL DISTINGUISHED NATIVE AMERICAN TEACHER, WRITER & CRITIC will speak on: "When Predator Came: An Indigenist View of Native North America Since 1492." TUESDAY, APRIL 6, 8:15 P.M., 900 ROOM

Continue the journey of faith. The destination is worth the effort. Join others with a hunger for God's service, and an urge to explore. Meet the people and feel the warmth of Austin Seminary. If your personal road map calls for insights in Bible, church history, pastoral care, theology, Christian education, world religions, worship, ethics, and ministry — continue your journey with us. We offer Master of Arts and Master of Divinity degrees. Registration deadline for fall: July 15. Come journey with us. Contact Eleanor Cozad Cherryholmes, Director of Vocations and Admissions AUSTIN PRESBYTERIAN THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY 100 East 27th Street, Austin, Texas 78705-5797; 800-777-6127jungles even though Noh Peten is the site of the modern city of Flores. Though the wheel is apparently very heavy, Jessica made us all proud by avoiding the traditional booing given to those who do not spin the wheel all the way around on their first try. She spun an amazing 90 cents and (yes, it’s true) made it to the Showcase Showdown. Though Jessica overbid by $700 and lost her showcase, including a ranch vacation in Arizona, her bid was certainly impressive. She would have had to pay a steep 30% tax on the prizes, anyway, so perhaps it is best that she just got a great story out of the whole event. Being on "The Price Is Right" is literally a once in a lifetime experience, because contestants are not allowed to return. For those who would like to see Jessica’s adventures in T.V. land, the show airs April 15.

Spring Frolics

Junior Chris Shields steadies an earth ball for Ulysses Jackson Saturday afternoon outside the Commons. For the first time in many years, Davidson's Spring Frolics weekend actually experienced spring weather. The weekend's activities included a 5K fun run (see page 12) and a performance by Residew on the court (see page 8). Fraternities contributed to the seasonal affair with pig roasts and parties which were well attended by current students and alums.

Photo by Casey Rogers

Proposal to Put Responsibility on Court

Alcohol continued from page 1

police officer stationed outside the house. The two “risk” monitors would be similar to the former “sober monitors” of years past. They would be at the parties to ensure safety, deal with intoxicated persons, and call upon the police in the event of an emergency. The hired alcohol monitor would be there to enforce the one-cup rule and to make sure that people show proper identification before going downstairs. The police officer would be called upon to handle emergencies or disturbances and would have the official capacity to give citations for alcohol violations. Holmes stated that the “risk” monitors would allow “students to take care of themselves.” He added that people would be more cooperative with house monitors, as guests are to their hosts. Holmes described this as a “shift in responsibility” back into the hands of the students. PCC president Julie Petty explained that “more responsibility would fall upon the houses.” She stressed the importance of the “risk” monitors and hired monitors working together to support each other.

The second aspect of the alcohol policy that the PCC would like to see change is the necessity to close down a party as soon as the flow of alcohol has stopped. In keeping with the encouragement of a responsible atmosphere, the PCC feels that this is a contradiction. Instead of sobering up in a “contained, monitored social environment” this policy forces students out of the houses only to flee off campus or to cause other disturbances on campus. Petty feels that “as soon as the monitor problem is solved this problem [the closing of parties] will be also.”

The third proposal of the PCC allows for more weekday parties. Currently, the policy provides for only two weekday parties per semester per house. This amounts to a possibility of 18 weekday events for the semester. This small number, Holmes says, creates the “feast and famine” cycle which includes many parties in one week and none in others. The PCC would like to see the policy change to allow for two weekday activities per week for the entire semester. According to the PCC proposal, this would discourage students from drinking and driving to and from off-campus activities and would allow them to go down to the court at their leisure rather than planning entire evening outings. According to Petty, everyone on the PCC has been working together in a positive manner to help benefit the entire student body. She said, “We really want this to work out for the good of everyone.”