12 THE DAVIDSONIAN _ARTS _ MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1993

Flip Side

Bob Margolin brings true blues and his band to the 900 room

Before watching Bob Margolin play, it’s important to understand that, despite his relatively unfamiliar name, he is a genuine bluesman. The people he has played with since joining the Muddy Waters band 20 years ago reads like a who’s who of Blues music and the rock n’ roll that it helped inspire: B.B. King, John Lee Hooker, the Rolling Stones, and Eric Clapton are among the heavyweights splashed across his resumé.

Like a true bluesman, Bob Margolin stamped out on his own over a decade ago to lead his own, highly transient band. And like a true bluesman, he has made the road and its unglamorous, smoky dives his home for most of his solo career. In truth, the 900 Room was almost too pure a venue for Bob to bring his gritty brand of blues. The middle-aged guitarist and his two-man backing band seemed quite aware during their September 6 debut of Blues Monday that their audience of about 100 bright-eyed college kids came from a completely different neighborhood. After playing a song with the chorus “The better you treat ‘em, the worse they treat you,” he looked to the crowd for a moment and laughed, “Philosophy 101.”

For the most part though, he did not speak. He was more at ease letting his music, with its improvised solos, rock-steady rhythms, and words of infinite wisdom, entertain. The bassist grooved unerringly and preferred to go unnoticed, while the drummer hid his age by flailing his arms about his sparse drum kit. But Margolin, despite his drummer’s flamboyance, was the one who held the eyes of the audience. Hidden by shades and a scruffy beard, he tore through each song with the professionalism of a concert pianist and the wisdom usually reserved for people twenty years his senior. His rugged wails of “I feel so down, like a ball game on a rainy day,” like his occasional quips with band mates, drew chuckles from the student audience. Everyone present got his dollar’s worth, having seen a true blues guitarist strut his stuff. Which is all Bob Margolin wanted anyway. Before the show he said, “I don’t want people to come and watch it just to have some sort of ‘ethno-cultural experience.’ I just want them to come and hear some good music and like it and have some fun.”

Lenny Kravitz leaves Lisa Bonet and his troubles behind

Kravitz continued from page 11

The radio definitely overplayed this one, so it’s hard for me to look at it objectively. It’s like Lenny wants to establish right away that he knows how to write rock music and wants you to know it. “Are You Gonna Go My Way,” with its strong guitar line, sets the tone for the rest of the album, showing that he plans to take you on a musical rollercoaster ride, on his terms.

The next song, “Believe,” is my favorite on the whole album. It begins with the faint, hymn-like sound of a Wurlitzer organ, some eerie sitar playing, then a deep bass. There is a profound sadness to this song that I can’t explain. Although the lyrics are somewhat optimistic, “If you want it you’ve got to believe/ Believe in yourself,” there is also something lonely about it, something powerful and forlorn.

“Come On and Love Me” is the next track, and with its driving drum beat is reminiscent of a Led Zeppelin song, perhaps “D’yer Maker” or “Poor Tom.” Lenny plays almost all the instruments on this one. “Heaven Help” is a quiet, steady piece that showcases Lenny’s distinct voice. The slow, slightly plodding “Just Be a Woman,” is not one of the stronger cuts. But then Lenny bursts out with “Is There Any Love In Your Heart?” another rocker. “Baby, all you care about/ Is Gucci and Mercedes Benz,” Lenny wails, as he spins a tale of a woman who chases after his money and sleeps with all his friends.

The lyrics to “Black Girl,” the next cut, are simplistic and slightly annoying, although the music is inoffensive. Lenny Kravitz has made disparaging comments about the Beatles before, but on the song“My Love,” it seems painfully obvious that the Beatles were a big influence. The music is reminiscent of the Beatles song “Tomorrow Never Knows” and has a futuristic, Eastern sound to it. “Sugar” is a classic Lenny Kravitz song, at once ballroom dancing and rock ballad. On “Sister,” a slow, acoustic number, Lenny’s voice is almost raw with stark emotion. The album ends with the obviously reggae-influenced piece, “Eleutheria,” an optimistic tune of utopia and heightened consciousness. “Got to keep on/ keep on keeping on” Lenny says in the last line, borrowing a phrase most often attributed to Bob Dylan. You get the feeling that Lenny’s moving on, rising to some other plane of consciousness and leaving his troubles, and Bonet, behind him. It’s easy to detect influences in Lenny Kravitz’s music, but he uses those influences to create something entirely original. In these days where a lot of modern music is filled with desperation, bitterness and noise, it’s refreshing to hear someone who still writes tuneful music. This whole CD is strong and skillfully executed, and if Kravitz can continue to grow musically as he has on this one, there’s no telling how far he’ll go. Catch him on Wednesday, Oct. 6 at Independence Arena, with special guest Blind Melon.

Dr. John livens up JazzCharlotte festival with a mix of styles
By Ross Sloop

This past weekend the sounds of jazz, blues, and gospel filled Marshall Park and uptown Charlotte. Break magazine, a Charlotte entertainment weekly, billed the event as one of the biggest annual music festivals for the city. This year JazzCharlotte featured over 30 different performances from local artists as well as musicians from around the country. The music festival, which is now in its eighth year, featured New Orleans pianist Dr. John as the headline attraction. Dr. John’s Mardi Gras rhythms got the crowd into a festive spirit. His music blends various Louisiana styles including funk, R & B, and jazz. While Dr. John worked his magic on the Lakeside Stage, other performances continued on the Jamboree, Plaza, and Fountain Stages. Throughout Saturday and Sunday, artists such as Guitar Gabriel, Snake Lady Willa Mae Burkner, Tattoo Joe, The Persuasions, and Eddie Palmieri entertained the crowd. Some of the most pleasant surprises of the festival were not even on the program’s schedule. As I strolled down one of the streets enjoying a veggie burrito, I was drawn towards a bohemian percussionist delighting a crowd by smacking an assortment of trash. The street musician jammed out rhythms by tapping on hubcaps, flower pots, ice cube trays, and tin cans.

JazzCharlotte attracted a very large and very mixed array of music fans. Old and young, white and black, families as well as individuals all came out to take part in the festival. Many people brought picnics, and those who did not were able to choose from a variety of food offerings. Different tents and pavilions sold Cajun, Greek, Mexican, Creole, Oriental, Egyptian, and American foods. Beverage offerings included a gourmet coffee vendor as well as numerous beer trucks. Although this music-lover was only able to attend on Saturday, the good times continued on Sunday afternoon and evening.

Editors' note: Break Magazine contributed to this article.

Classifieds

Help Wanted
Reliable, energetic, part-time employees for local coffee house and ice cream shop opening in October. Please call Lois Chandler at 892-6686 for more information.

Earn $500-$1000 weekly stuffing envelopes. For details - RUSH $1.00 with SASE to: Group Five 57 Greentree Dr., Suite 307 Dover, DE 19901

Arts in The Davidsonian