4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 29, 1993

Active Recruiting Raises Acceptance Levels

Class continued from page 1

The improved profile is attributable to several sources. Davidson’s offering of an increased number of Merit Scholarships, such as the Cornwell Scholarship, attracted several applicants. Additionally, the travels of Eleanor Payne of the Admissions staff, who “literally went around the world,” introducing people to Davidson also resulted in an increased quality of applicants and acceptances.

Another major factor in bringing quality students to Davidson is its Division I athletic status, Hogg says. A prime example of the influence of athletics is the national recognition received by Davidson’s soccer team this year. Hogg says about students from other regions of the country, “If they know nothing else about Davidson, they know our soccer team.”

Finally, Hogg cites increased recruiting help from Davidson’s faculty this year. Several faculty members traveled with members of the Admissions staff, presenting information about Davidson at high schools throughout the country, while others made personal phone calls to interested students.

Although all of the acceptance letters have been sent, Hogg insists that the work of the Admissions staff is far from finished. For the first time ever, a rigorous timeline of efforts aimed at recruiting the best class possible has been established, and began the day that the letters were mailed. These efforts include giving accepted students an “enormous personal contact” with Davidson students, alumni, faculty, parents of current students, and Admissions officers. A faculty phonathon was held last Wednesday night, where high-caliber students were contacted by professors from the departments in which they had expressed an interest. The push to yield high-quality students culminated on Saturday in Decision Davidson Day. 

214 of the accepted students, or 25% of the entire group, attended this opportunity to explore life at Davidson. Some of these students arrived early to attend an Honors Scholars Banquet on Friday.

Snowbound...

Photo courtesy of the Davidson College Choir

During spring break, the Choir spent the night in the Main Street Pentecostal Holiness Church in Hillsville, VA when the weather closed the roads they were traveling. Sophomores Mary Beth Crawford, Joanna Boyd, and Linn Allison wait in front of the church in Winston-Salem.

Panel Aims to Increase Tolerance of Gays

Sex continued from page 1

Panelists described feelings that differed from the majority of their peers’ as early as kindergarten or elementary school. But they did not verbally express their feelings before late high school for the most part.

One of the professional women described her conservative background with a Jewish father and Catholic mother. She attended an all-girls Catholic boarding school where she confided in a Catholic priest who encouraged her to follow her inner feelings. The support from an authority figure helped lead to her acceptance of her orientation. She says she, “came out in a big way and I haven’t stopped talking!”

Every panelist expressed the early difficulties accepting being gay or lesbian. One woman said she had a “horrible time being lesbian and fought it very hard.” Eventually, though, each person seemed to realize the value of honesty and integrity as they became confident about who they are. The same woman said she finally “learned diversity was exhilarating.” Davidson students described the difficulties;The student who transferred said that, “after Davidson, I can deal with anything,” but that the experience helped him “grow a lot more.” He told about repeated incidences in the Commons when peers threw food at him and about actual verbal threats. On an individual basis, the senior panelist appreciated her friends' never-ending support at Davidson. Sharing with her friends “created a whole new level of trust and honesty, realizing who you are and what your feelings are.” She did, though, experience negative reactions from a friend from home similar to those experiences of the other panelists. 

One audience member asked how friends and family members should approach someone who might be gay or lesbian. The panel disagreed about the appropriate response. They agreed concerned friends should “make it clear you are open-minded.” One panelist suggested that asking openly and honestly if a friend or relative is gay or lesbian reveals so much comfort with the situation that there is no need to be secretive.

Moore Says Actions Were Not Racially Biased

Police continued from page 1

stopped them. “There are times that for some reason a person just doesn’t look right and you feel like you have to check things out. Some people you can tell are not students. They [the officers] have to use their judgment,” said Moore.

According to Moore, he is confident that this was not a racist incident. “I wouldn’t hire anyone who I think would go out and harass students because of their race or sex,” he explained, “I’m absolutely confident that our officers are not racist.” Moore further explained that if the officers were afraid to check the identification of suspicious persons on campus, they would not be doing their job in protecting the students. “They wouldn’t be of any good to anybody if they were afraid to do their job.”

However, Leak and West want to know why they look suspicious. According to West, it is not just them but other black male students have been stopped by police on campus. “I’ve never heard it happen to a white guy; I think the bottom line is that we’re black guys,” said West. Leak stated, “The police get suspicious when they see a black face.” West does not think the police are trying to harass him, but he feels that the actions taken were a result of biased judgment. West thinks that this is an example of the underlying racism on this campus. He said, “If you look at the circumstances, what other reason do they have?”

“It’s an example of the stereotype that many people have about black people: that we steal, fight, and commit any type of street crime,” said Leak. He continued, “It’s about racism and prejudices.”

VISTA VOLUNTEERS...

- Serve full-time for one year in low-income communities
- Help people mobilize to overcome poverty in their neighborhoods
- Are assigned to local projects in the 50 states, Puerto Rico, and Washington, D.C.
- Set up projects to reduce hunger and homelessness, organize people to rebuild urban housing, create employment and literacy projects, and much more
- Are U.S. citizens or permanent residents, age 18 or older

VISTA VOLUNTEERS RECEIVE...

- A modest living allowance plus a $95 monthly stipend paid upon completion of service
- Training before and during service
- Unique experience and new skills which enhance career development
- Possible deferment or partial cancellation of student loans
- Easier access to federal employment after service

Recruit Volunteers in Service on Campus

PRESENTATION: MARCH 29, 7 PM, CONFERENCE RM, GREY UNION
INTERVIEWS: MARCH 30, 9 AM - 5 PM, CAREER OFFICE

THE FEDERAL DOMESTIC VOLUNTEER AGENCY