THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 8, 1993 =) 7

Beyond Birkenstock . . . Seth J. McLaughlin & Kyle S. Kinner

Davidson and the Arts: Taking a Sentimental View

Cease and desist. All ye whose pretension exceeds their intellectual quotient, say no to flaccid, uninformed, half-baked opinions. We’ve had
enough. We've even had enough of our own. We quit. Psyche!!!! No getting rid of us that easily. You'll have
to graduate us first. Oh, yeah, we need a column topic. But, of course, thinking up award-winning ideas is no
easy feat. And our column has to be at least as interesting as the unnamed polemicist across the page (whoa,
hard task indeed). With stream of consciousness, we'll just put in whatever the hell we think up. OK? Good.

Now, about this senior gift thing. Has anyone out there seen a good piece of sculpture selected by the committee?
We rest our case. That hideous monstrosity out there in front of the NC State Science building (in Raleigh, stupid)
is just about the ugliest thing the Birks have ever seen. And that cost something like 300,000 dollars. What do
y'all think we’ll get for a piddling $50,000 or so? Not much, probably. Just some half-formed bronze phallus with an
outrageous price-tag. Does anybody want that? Of course not. Why not divert this pile o’ cash to another, more worthwhile
venture, and ask the arts department to cook something up for outdoor sculpture purposes. A nice representational figure—two arms, a
head, ample breasts—something nice.

Speaking of the “artistic community” (formerly known as the cultural elite), how ‘bout that Tower of Babel we’re raising for
‘em. You'd think that’d be enough. We could have used that money for a particle accelerator for the physics department
or a couple of monkeys for the biology department or maybe we could have even gone out and hired a
Talmudic scholar away from Hebrew University in Jerusalem (a Jesuit would be good too). All of this for a couple
more freshmen a year who wear black, listen to Bauhaus, and “create” a lot of crap that represents the inner
torment they feel because of Jesse Helms and the BMW their parents bought them for graduation. Who needs it?

As far as we’re concerned, Cunningham was damn good. And proportional to the number of students the arts department graduates
every year, we ought to be building them a broom closet. Ah hahahaha. Just kidding, folks. Of course your inner
torment and aesthetic convictions are as important to us as they are to the rest of this campus’ liberal coterie.

That’s right. You didn’t hear. The Birks are liberals now. Oh, yeah . . . our parents voted for McGovern.
Why shouldn’t we join the great unwashed? Actually, we’ve only been inducted into the academy as “honorary liberals.” When last
week’s diminutive column elicited a storm of congratulations (actually two or three) from the campus’ leftist contingent, we were shocked
and amazed. What, you really like us? Next thing you know, Jane Fonda will want to date us (yeah, she
didn’t sell out). Anyway, as today’s col-

Lay Off, Faculty By Tom Norwood

On Feb. 20, 1993 a story entitled “Professors denounce switch at Davidson” appeared on the front page of The Charlotte
Observer's sports section. This article reported on a two-page resolution written by Davidson professors David Martin and Mary Anne Moore.
The resolution charged Davidson athletic director Terry Holland with sexism for changing the women’s basketball game against Radford. Holland made
the move in order to rent the Belk Arena for the UNCC-Furman men’s basketball game. UNCC paid Davidson $4,500 for
the use of the arena. Liz Clarke of The Charlotte Observer wrote, “The professors want a public apology to the
Davidson and Radford teams, and the $4,500 to be spent 'as a miserable bit of compensation,’ on academics.” This resolution
is scheduled to be voted on at the March faculty meeting.

The purpose of this article is not to defend Holland’s actions, although I feel that his record concerning women’s athletics
is extraordinary and that the charge of sexism is unfounded. No, the reason I’m writing this article is to discuss
a much more serious matter. I want to talk about a troubling trend I’ve noted in faculty. Lately, the faculty
seems to think that they run this place. They have passed resolutions on issues that do not have anything to
do with academic life. One such case is the women’s basketball controversy. As I heard it, the resolution written by
Martin and Moore was on the VAX system, popular with the faculty.

Davidson is for Teachers Windham continued from page 5

widely acclaimed because of their teaching ability, not because of their publishing. Any professors who want to publish do so
in their spare time, and do it well because they like it, not because Davidson forces them to. This is
what attracts the best students, not nationally “prominent” professors who are well-known because of their green stamps. Davidson’s curriculum is
good for a school this size, though sometimes it has its shortcomings. Any reductions in the number of courses offered
would be counter-productive. I will scream loud and long if Davidson goes through with this plan. I will personally kick
the shins and bite the kneecaps of the brainless piece of rectal debris who thought this up. And though they
may be silent, you can bet that many students past and present will agree with me. If any professors are
reading who support the new idea, kiss my patoot. We pay your salary for you to teach us, not to
increase your personal grandeur. Do the research in your spare time instead ofTaking time away from us. Are any TRUSTEES
listening? We need you. — Scott Windham '93

Distributed by Tribune Media Services

Apparently, someone on the faculty read this resolution and faxed a copy to The Charlotte Observer. This action broke college
policy. The faculty handbook is quite clear: “Matters of official college policy or issues of college-wide import are to be
handled by or coordinated through the Office of College Relations.” This press release didn't go through College Relations. Someone on
the faculty does not feel that this rule applies to him. Over the past year or so, the faculty has
told students how to organize their social lives, Dean Terry and Richard Terry how to do their jobs, and Holland
how to run the athletic department. Would the professors want Holland telling the history department which courses they should teach
or Dean Terry deciding that minus grades should be eliminated? I suggest that faculty members take a hard look at
their own behavior before they criticize others. People in glass houses shouldn’t throw stones.

As this column will amply demonstrate, we’re on board for good. Which brings us (since this column has NO NARRATIVE
CONTINUITY) to Director of Residence Life Terry and his ever-changing housing policy. Thanks, Richard. Your decision to suspend dorm clusters
will further endear you to the school’s loving rabble. Take away lofts, toilet paper delivery, and recycling cans and what
have you got...domestic eunuchs. Sorry girls, but the metaphor is appropriate to describe the creeping and invidious withdrawal of basic
services that will eventually emasculate us all. Down with Residence Life!

Now, we'll end this puppy with a snappy rejoinder. Let’s reflect on Robert Frost and his snowy woods (the flakes
are falling as we write the article):

Whose dorms these are I think I know
His house is in Cornelius though
He will not see me stopping here
To watch his dorms fill up with freshmen.

My little horse must think it queer
To stop without a recycling bucket near
Between the comptrollers’ and frozen registrars’
The most expensive evening of the year (tuition’s due).

He gives his harness bells a shake
To ask if there is some mistake.
The only other sound’s the sweep
Of low-paid hourly workers cleaning Chambers.

The dorms are fetid, dark and deep,
But I have paper deadlines to keep
And reams to write before I sleep
And reams to write before I sleep.

By Chris Hood

An Alabama court recently ruled that the Confederate Battle Flag may not be flown above the state Capitol in Montgomery.
Georgia Governor Zell Miller is heading a movement to change his state’s flag, which contains the Battle Flag. Each case
has generated conflict and intensified feelings; one must look at historical precedents to understand the true significance.

In 1963, one of the great controversies in America dealt with desegregation of public schools. George C. Wallace, governor of
Alabama at the time, was strongly against desegregation. In order to flaunt his position in the presence of Attorney General
Robert Kennedy, who was coming to Alabama, Wallace raised the Battle Flag over the Capitol.

When the court decided that current Governor Guy Hunt could no longer fly the flag, the basis was an obscure
1895 law which stated that only the official state flag could be flown in Montgomery. Hunt had publicly been in
favor of raising the Battle Flag and has suggested that he may push for a public vote to attempt to
overturn the court ruling.

Georgia’s legislature altered its state flag, which did not previously have the Battle Flag, in 1956. This gesture was made
as a result of the Supreme Court’s 1954 ruling that segregation of public schools was unconstitutional. As it would be
in the case of its neighbor to the west in seven years, the Confederate Battle Flag was used by the
legislature in Georgia as a symbol of racial segregation.

Completely banning the Confederate Battle Flag is certainly a breach of the First Amendment. In viewing the situations in Alabama
and Georgia, however, history supports the removal of the symbol from the Alabama Capitol and the Georgia state flag. Each
state began using the Flag in direct response to national attempts at desegregation. When asked if he would have flown
the Flag had Wallace not done so in 1963, Hunt replied, “Probably not.”

Alabama and Georgia have used the Confederate Battle Flag in the past to symbolize their commitments to segregation. Regardless of
the Flag’s meaning today, the precedents have been set. “We need to lay the days of segregation to rest,” claims
Miller. Keeping such a symbol of segregation off of the Alabama Capitol and off of the Georgia state flag seems
to be opportunities to remove reminders of such separation.

Background taken from Mobile Press Register and “Time” magazine.

Problem Lies in Social Alienation

Greiling continued his page 5

Public Defender’s office in Charlotte, the vast majority of defendants I see are African-American men. I realize that my experience
is limited to only one segment of society, but it is with the most violent segment. The problem seems to
lie more in social alienation and economics than race, and these are assuredly issues which need to be more fully
explored. In making society the “heavy,” are you saying that people aren’t responsible for their actions? In seeing so many
things as examples of overt racism by the “Establishment,” aren’t you, in effect, robbing people of self-determination and self-realization? A
sense of victimization only leads to frustration and powerlessness.

Respectfully,
Christiana Greiling '93
