THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS. MONDAY, MARCH 1, 1993 15

Holland Responds to Critics and Explains Decision
By Robert Lloyd-Still

Last week, two Davidson professors accused the Davidson Athletic Department of sexism in the cancellation of a women’s basketball game
scheduled for February 22 against Radford. David Martin (Economics) and Mary Anne Moore (Physics) argued that the schedule change “humiliated
the women’s team.” These professors ended their faculty resolution by stating, “Davidson College should not be a money-grubbing institution.”

Davidson Athletic Director, Terry Holland, and Senior Women’s Administrator, Caroline Price, strongly disagreed with the accusations made by the professors.
Both Holland and Price felt that not all of the facts came out on this case. The Charlotte Observer article
that uncovered the story last week left the perception that Holland had decided to cancel the women’s game only a
day or two before. However, the decision was actually made back in December. Between December and the release of the
article on February 22, there was ample time for Martin and others to present their concern about the cancellation of
the game.

In December, when Davidson played UNCC in the NCAA Tournament, a representative of UNCC, Judy Rose, told Holland that the
UNCC men’s basketball team had been forced out of the Coliseum for their scheduled match against Furman on February 15.
Holland checked with Bob Price to see if February 15 was an open date in Belk Arena. Unaware that there
was a women’s game scheduled for that same night, Holland told UNCC that they could play at Davidson. Sometime later
in December at a scheduling meeting, women’s basketball coach, John Filar, pointed out that there was a women’s game scheduled
for the same night as UNCC versus Furman. Price had thought that the women’s game was scheduled for that afternoon.
Filar checked possible options with the Radford team and Holland called UNCC to see if they could reschedule their game.
After looking at some options (doubleheader, early afternoon, different date) Filar decided that the best thing to do was cancel
the game. Holland made sure that this was what Filar wanted to do. Holland argued that “there was no undue
pressure put on Coach Filar.”

There were over two months between the cancellation of the game and the release of the article on February 22
when Martin and Moore could have presented their opinions on the issue. Instead of attending athletic council meetings, the professors
decided to present a faculty resolution and to discuss the issue with the Observer.

Holland took much offense to the segment of the resolution that attacked his decision as money-grubbing. “The money itself is
obviously not a major factor with a budget of our size.” Holland continued, “We did not want to make this
a bribe, but we did make it clear that the money was going back into the women’s program. That was
not a critical issue. The issue was that we had two games scheduled for the same time.”

While Holland did not regard the money as an issue, he exemplified Davidson’s commitment to women’s athletics, “the only budgets
we are increasing in the athletic department at this time are the budgets of our women’s programs as we try
and bring them up to speed with our men’s programs.”

Price vehemently defended the decision of Holland and she felt the charge of sexism was ludicrous. If there were any
concerns they could have been voiced, they did not need to go to the Observer. “Before setting up a resolution,
there is a system in place, a tremendous climate to provide for the best communication. I would have loved it
if David Martin had said that he disagreed with the cancellation.” Holland stated, “this was strictly supposed to be a
good samaritan effort.”

Leadership In Unlikely Place
Alpert continued from page 14

NCAA is a realistic goal. This he hopes would reward all the hard work the team has put in, as
well as increase support for the team by students and alumni in the coming years, which he feels has room
for improvement.

Alpert describes his role on this team as running the offense, making sure everyone is in the correct spots on
the floor, distributing the ball, and shutting down the opposition’s point guard on defense. Any points that Alpert scores are
an added bonus, as is the extraordinary number of rebounds he has been able to pull down lately.Alpert had nine
rebounds in the tough Hornet’s Nest Classic home game versus UNCC. Chris, the student, is unsure of what he wants
to major in, but he hopes to continue playing basketball after school and then enter the field of communications or
law. Alpert will finish the season with a torn lateral meniscus in his right knee; this seems to be characteristic
of his commitment to the game, to his teammates, and to his coaches. I wish Chris Alpert and the rest
of the Wildcats luck as the season winds down and tournament time gears up.

OPEN 7 DAYS | NOW IN NEW LOCATION! RINEHART RD. OFF HWY. 150, MOORESVILLE

Southern Conference Men's B-ball Standings
Tn. Chatt. 15-2 (22-6)
Ga. South. 12-5 (18-7)
E. Tenn. St. 12-6 (17-9)
Marshall 10-7 (15-10)
DAVIDSON 9-8 (12-13)
Furman 8-9 (10-15)
App. State 8-10 (12-14)
Citadel 7-10 (9-16)
VMI 3-14 (5-20)
W. Carolina 2-15 (6-19)

HEY LENARD! Do an extra push-up for Davidson.

Baseball Takes North Carolina A&T; Then Falls to Wake
By Will Cobb

The Davidson baseball team opened its home play with a 9-1 win over the North Carolina A&T Aggies. Because the
Aggies arrived to the game an hour late, the game had to be called after 6 1/2 innings. The weather
was extremely cold and windy, not preferred baseball weather, but Davidson managed to pull out an easy win. Randy Spaw
pitched for the Wildcats, giving up only one run, three hits, and one walk in seven innings. Davidson beat up
the Aggies with ten hits to help push their record to 2-1. Davidson started the rout with five runs in
the second inning and they collected four more in the fourth. Leading the way was senior Rick Bender, who was
three for four with one run scored and one RBI. Also hitting well was junior Paul Brannan who went 2
for 4 with one run scored, one RBI, and one stolen base. Another major contributor was Jazz Frietas, who scored
a run, batted in a run, and stole two bases. The team played good defense and Spaw pitched an excellent
game, keeping most balls in the infield.

On Saturday, with much better weather, the team faced a talented Wake Forest squad. Davidson fell 6-2, but played quite
well. Davidson was held to four hits. The ‘Cats jumped out to a 2-0 lead in the bottom of the
first. The rally began when Freitas reached first on a walk. Freitas advanced to second when Bender reached first base
on an error. Two batters later, junior Clay Hall lined a shot up the right field line that scored both
runners. Chris Carrigan pitched seven innings, giving up four runs (three earned) on ten hits with one strikeout and three
walks. Carrigan did a solid job on the mound while facing a good hitting Deacon squad. He gave up no
runs in the fourth after the Deacons loaded the bases with only one out, and surrendered only two runs in
the sixth when the Deacs loaded the bases with no outs. The Deacons were able to gather up two more
runs in the last two innings to put the game out of reach. The ‘Cats fought back and they loaded
the bases in the eighth inning. Unfortunately for Davidson, a check swing sent the ball straight to the pitcher and
Wake Forest made the double play. The crowd was small but enthusiastic. On Tuesday, Davidson will face the North Carolina
Tarheels at 2:00 PM.

COLLEGE GRADUATES
Put your education to work--become a Lawyer's Assistant
"The Career for the 90's" at The National Center for Paralegal Training
- Oldest and largest graduate-level American Bar Association-approved program in the Southeast.
- Employment assistance--over 1,000 employers in 38 states have hired our graduates.
- 3 month day program with housing available.
- 8 month evening program.
- Diversified Curriculum--specialize in Litigation, Corporations, or Real Estate & Probate; all courses include “Computers in the Law.”

Meet with our representative Wednesday, March 31, 9:00-5:00
Contact College Placement Office for an appointment.
Call or write for a free brochure and more information.

The National Center for Paralegal Training
3414 Peachtree Road
Atlanta, GA 30326
(800) 275-7842
(404) 266-1060

Please send me information about becoming a Lawyer's Assistant.
Name
Address
City
Zip
College
Yr. Grad
Phone (day) ( )
