THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1993 15

'Tis the season to go bowling & FSU can start celebrating

By Will Cobb

Over Christmas break, the unpredictable 1993 college football season will come to a tearful end. Seventeen Division I-A schools will end with a victory, the others with a defeat. Despite the critics, the bowl system is the best post-season structure for the sport. Besides, every college football fan would be bored silly during the holiday season if they watched just one game on the final day of the season.

Every New Year’s Day, sports fanatics have been able to christen the new year with at least eight well-matched college football games from 11 a.m. till 11 p.m., at which times guys and their friends eat and drink whatever they prefer. Unfortunately, the games this year do not appear very well matched, and there exists major potential for some pretty serious blowouts. Let’s hope, for the viewer’s sake, I am proven wrong. Just the same, for all 17 games, here are my predictions, and for a different twist, I’ll pick the losers:

*John Hancock Bowl: Oklahoma vs. Texas Tech
The Sooners will take care of business and will be home for Christmas. Though the Big 8 is no powerhouse, there’s only one Texas team that belongs in a bowl, and guess what? - it isn’t Texas Tech.
Will’s Loser: Tech by 16.

*Aloha Bowl: Colorado vs. Fresno St.
The Buffaloes have had their frustrations this year and are better than their record shows. Fresno State should find that out the hard way.
Will’s Loser: Fresno by 10.

Copper Bowl: Kansas St. vs. Wyoming
As far as this bowl goes on the East Coast, who cares? But for those enthusiastic football fans in Wyoming and Kansas, here is what I think. Lady luck shouldn’t need to pull strings for this one, Kansas State should come home with a nice big trophy.
Will’s Loser: Wyoming by 18.

*Holiday Bowl: Ohio State vs. BYU
This one is going to be tough to watch. Hopefully, for the Mormons, the game won’t get as ugly as the 62-14 beating BYU took by Texas A&M four years ago. What Ohio State, a 9-1-1 team, is doing playing a 6-5 team is beyond me. This will be the first sure thing blowout.
Will’s Loser: BYU (at the least) by 24.

*Freedom Bowl: Southern Cal vs. Utah
Back to back blowouts on the same day. John Robinson should get a bowl victory in his first year back at USC. I’ll be kind.
Will’s Loser: Utah by 15.

*Independence Bowl: Va. Tech vs. Indiana
Of all the bowls so far, this has the potential for a good game to watch. Though the two teams have different styles, this game should be tight. The game will be decided in the final two minutes. Indiana’s experience should prevail.
Will’s Loser: Va. Tech by 3.

*Peach Bowl: Kentucky vs. Clemson
This game will be close mainly because neither team can score.

WB Pan OE ae FAN OF THE WEEK Jason Burt (12/04/93)

DAVIDSON SCREEN PRINTERS’ Patterson Court Top-5
1. Fannie and Mable
2. Emanon

WILL'S NEW YEAR'S BOWL LOSER WINNER SPREAD
John Hancock Texas Tech Oklahoma 16
Aloha Fresno St. Colorado 10
Copper Wyoming Kansas St. 18
Holiday BYU Ohio St. 24
Freedom Utah Southern Cal 15
Independence Va. Tech Indiana 3
Peach Kentucky Clemson 6
Gator Alabama UNC 3
Alamo California Iowa 4
Hall of Fame NCSU Michigan 21
Cotton Texas A&M Notre Dame 20
Citrus Penn. St. Tennessee 13
Car-Quest UVa BC 18
Fiesta Arizona Miami 10
Rose UCLA Wisconsin 6
Sugar WVU Florida 17
Orange Nebraska FSU 24

Will Cobb

Kentucky ended their season with a 56-3 loss to Tennessee, and Clemson pulled out a yawner versus a futile South Carolina. Still, Clemson has a new coach everyone who cares seems to like and that should be the difference.
Will’s Loser: Kentucky by 6.

*Gator Bowl: North Carolina vs. Alabama
Doesn’t look like there is light at the end of the tunnel for the Tide. Too many injuries and too little offense. UNC and Mack Brown will be pleased with an 11-2 record after enduring two 1-10 seasons a mere five years ago.
Will’s Loser: Bama by 5.

*Alamo Bowl: California vs. Iowa
Give Iowa some credit and not so much to California. About halfway through the season, the Golden Bears faded and will keep slip sliding away, but the Hawkeyes will keep it close.
Will’s Loser: Cal by 4.

*Hall of Fame Bowl: Michigan vs. NCSU
Look out State, here comes a bunch of angry Wolverines looking for respect. They will get some at the expense of the Wolfpack. This one could get ugly.
Will’s Loser: N.C. State by 21.

*Cotton Bowl: Texas A&M vs. Notre Dame
Sports Illustrated was right. A&M will get to a bowl and POOF - for the second year in a row, Notre Dame will manhandle the Aggies. Besides, it is hard to figure why Notre Dame isn’t in the picture for the National Championship any more than they are. This bowl has really lost its luster the last 5 years.
Will’s Loser: Texas A&M by 20.

Citrus Bowl: Tennessee vs. Penn State
Tennessee is certainly one of the five best teams in collegefootball right now, maybe higher. They belong in a better bowl, but they’ll settle for a victory over Penn State. This could be Heath Shuler’s last game, probably not. Will’s Loser: Penn St. by 13.

*Car-Quest Bowl: Boston College vs. Virginia
BC beat Notre Dame and should have beaten West Virginia. This one won’t slip away, it’ll be over by the third quarter. Will’s Loser: UVa by 18.

Fiesta Bowl: Miami vs. Arizona
The Hurricane’s season could have been different if they had not gotten bitten by the “Fluke” bug in West Virginia. Miami will put points on the board and Arizona’s hurting offense will go nowhere. Will’s Loser: Arizona by 10.

*Rose Bowl: Wisconsin vs. UCLA
Let the dream season come to a rosy end for the Badgers. Why not? UCLA will keep it close with the explosive receiver J.J. Stokes in his last collegiate game. Wisconsin’s fans deserve the win and so does the school for the spirit and guts that have been poured out all season long, especially after serving as the doormat of the Big 10 for so many years. Will’s Loser: UCLA by 6.

*Sugar Bowl: West Virginia vs. Florida
The hillbillies from Morgantown won’t be able to wrastle this gator. The 11-0 dream season will come to a painful end, the second time since 1988 National Champion hopes will be squashed. Go get ‘em Gatas! Will’s Loser: WVU by 17.

*Orange Bowl: Florida State vs. Nebraska
Well, all the other schools prior to this game will tell the cameras how they are #1 when they win. All that can be thrown out the window. The winner of this game will be the 1993 National Collegiate Football Champions. Don’t misunderstand the hype—there won’t be too much drama here, and Bobby Bowden will finally get what he’s wanted for so many years: a ring. Will’s Loser: Nebraska by 24.

There they are, my bowl predictions. Understand, they are strictly opinions. Have a fun holiday and good luck on exams. Remember, bowl season starts the day after exams, so we’ll all be home just in time, barely.

Lefty Dreisell inducted into Davidson Hall of Fame
The former basketball coach was honored for his 176 victories and two trips to the NCAA final eight in 1968 and 1969. He was inducted during halftime of the UNCC game and he stated to the crowd, “This means a lot... It was an exciting time for me, because I was able to recruit good players, good students who worked hard and believed.” Dreisell coached Davidson during the college’s basketball glory and they honored him Saturday night.

Claudia Lombard selected to Division I All-South Region soccer team
Sophomore Lombard led the team with 14 goals and 9 assists. The 9 assists set a Davidson school record. She has 20 career goals and has started every game at Davidson. Lombard is the first Davidson women’s soccer player to be so recognized.

Men’s Wrestling competes, loses to Gardner-Webb and Newport News in home meet
Davidson wrestling lost 27-15 to Gardner-Webb and to Newport News, a team of shipmen. Sam Knowles was a bright spot for the Cats, going 2-0 in the 158 weight class. Jimmy Stewart and Robbie Fiero also have been integral to noticeable improvement this season. Sean Harvey and Francis Mitchell also wrestled well on Saturday. Captain Fiero commented, “With the Gardner-Webb loss, we showed a lot of promise. We looked a lot better against them than many of our matches in the past. There is a new attitude on the team this year.”

Basketball commentators return to DCTV
Davidson seniors Peter Amidon, David Moore, and Robert Lloyd-Still returned to action Saturday night for the men’s basketball game against UNCC. The trio plans to broadcast all home games, which can be seen on DCTV. Moore commented, “It’s great to be in the limelight again. We love connecting the students with Davidson basketball. Most importantly, it’s great to see the basketball team playing so well. I expect them to make the NCAA tournament for the first time since 1986.”

-Will Cobb