6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

The Week in Washington

U.S. freezes Haitian assets as situation worsens

By Brett Marston

Reimposing a freeze on Haitian assets in the U.S. last week, the Clinton Administration increased its efforts to force the
military regime of General Raoul Cédras to relinquish power in Haiti. The U.S. is Haiti’s leading trading partner, as well
as the main foreign banking center for Haitians. In June, after the U.N. imposed a ban on the importation of
oil products to Haiti, the Treasury Department froze the assets of the Haitian government and central bank.

A few weeks later, the military government and ex-President Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, who was ousted by the military after he
won a landslide victory in Haiti’s first democratic elections in 1991, signed an agreement, according to which the military leaders
were to resign and reinstate Aristide on October 30th. The U.N. lifted its embargo, and the U.S. suspended the freeze
on Haitian assets.

In the past few weeks, however, the situation in Haiti has worsened. Cédras refused to step down, and military forces
assassinated President Aristide’s Justice Minister Guy Malary. Another prominent Aristide supporter has been reported missing. The violence which has defined
Haitian politics for decades threatens to continue. Brutal dictators have terrorized the small, impoverished country since French colonial days.

The U.N. reimposed its embargo on Oct. 18th. Last week, the U.S. Coast Guard Cutter Vigilant fired warning shots at
the Don José, a merchant ship which was headed for Haitian shores. U.S. officials then boarded the ship, which is
based in Turkey and the Caicos Islands, and forced it to reverse course after ship officers refused to show them
the entire cargo.

World leaders have continually asserted their intentions to restore the democratically elected Aristide to power and to try to bring
stability to Haiti. Until the U.N. sanctions this year, however, the only concrete step taken in this direction was a
half-hearted embargo by the Organization of American States (OAS).

One significant factor for U.S. policy to Haiti has been the prospect of mass immigration from the island to the
Florida shores. Early in 1992, as tens of thousands of Haitians boarded rickety boats to escape political persecution and economic
hardship, President Bush ordered U.S. ships to intercept them in international waters and send them back to Haiti, no questions
asked. Bush argued that international immigration accords, which prohibit countries from refusing entry to those who are in significant danger
in their own country, only apply once those people leave international waters and enter the waters of the country they
wish to reach. U.S. courts upheld this claim.

President Clinton has considered using U.S. military force to restore Aristide to power. Coupled with the exodus of U.S. troops
from a difficult mission in Somalia and the prospect of military intervention in Bosnia, Clinton’s stance on Haiti has sparked
congressional debate on the powers of the President to send troops into areas of conflict.

Sources: The New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Christian Science Monitor, Washington Post, and “Dateline Haiti: Caribbean Stalemate,” Pamela Constable,
in the winter 1992-93 issue of Foreign Policy.

The Dean Rusk Program

Pakistan faces change after elections

By Saad Gul

An air of dread hung over Pakistan on October 6, 1993 as Pakistanis went to the polls for the fourth
time since 1985. When the day passed without any untoward incident, the country heaved a sigh of relief. Because of
the intricacies of the electoral system, the exact tally will not be known until after the weekend, but the basic
scenario that has emerged has been clear.

As expected, the liberal Pakistan Peoples' Party under former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto has done well, winning above 80 seats
in a House of 217. More surprisingly, however, her chief rival, the conservative Pakistan Muslim League led by former Prime
Minister Nawaz Sharif came in virtually neck and neck, taking in about 75 seats.

A number of interesting trends have been revealed. The successive General Elections swept the former plethora of “paper parties” off
the political landscape, leaving a two-party system. The evolution towards a genuine two-party system seems to point towards the maturation
of democracy in the country.

Another interesting fact seems to have been the crushing defeat of the fundamentalists. The first-past-the-post system has become the bane
of life for the religious parties; while doing very well in terms of the number of votes cast, their representation
in parliament seems destined to remain token.

The basic issue remained, as in the United States, the economy. Both parties invoked

20465 Chartwell Ctr. Dr. Cornelius, NC
Lunch 11:30am-2:00pm Mon-Fri
Dinner Sun-Thur 5-10pm
Fri-Sat 5-11pm
896-7778

KOBE JAPANESE HOUSE OF STEAKS SEAFOOD

KOBE 1st Anniversary

Come Celebrate Our Anniversary through the month of October

Special Imperial Dinner for Two
Combination of:
- Habachi Steak
- Habachi Shrimp
- Sesame Chicken

ONLY $29.95 per couple

All Dinners Include:
Soup • Salad • Shrimp Appetizer
Fried Rice • Vegetables

Save 15% off menu price

Thank you for making our first year a success!
Offer good Oct. 1-31

I-77 Exit 28
Behind Norman Crossing
Highway 73
Norman Crossing

The former plethora of “paper parties” off the political landscape, leaving a two-party system. The evolution towards a genuine two-party
system seems to point towards the maturation of democracy in the country.

Another interesting fact seems to have been the crushing defeat of the fundamentalists. The first-past-the-post system has become the bane
of life for the religious parties; while doing very well in terms of the number of votes cast, their representation
in parliament seems destined to remain token.

The basic issue remained, as in the United States, the economy. Both parties invokedHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving
the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Historical images; Sharif’s conservatives pointed to their successful rule in the sixties, “decade of Development,” which saw astronomical growth rates
and the best economic performance of Pakistan to date. Their detractors pointed to the massive inequality of wealth that had
developed during the decade, and point to the PPP’s own successful workers’ rights legislation in the seventies. The conservatives, in
their turn, were quick to cite the economic stagnation of the seventies. The PML basically let their record speak for
themselves: tax cuts, easy credit arrangements, attraction of foreign investment, and Sharif’s personal trips to far-flung remote areas to “meet
the people.” The PPP countered by leveling charges of “cronyism” and “sell-outs” to capitalists, claiming they could attract the same
investment on more favorable terms. For all practical purposes, however, there are almost no differences between the manifestoes of both
parties: in fact, both parties frequently appoint the same people to their cabinets. The only thing they differ on is
the extent of privatization or the sale of state-owned units to the private sector. The PML would like to divest
all current state holdings, while the PPP would like to retain a few. However, on the one issue that places
Pakistan on the world map, the nuclear program, all parties are unanimous. Nawaz Sharif summed up the view of all
parties when he told Time in April: “There can be no sellout, unilateral signing of the NPT, on the nuclear
issue. The government that does that cannot face the people of Pakistan.” All political parties subscribe to the view that
Pakistan will only sign the NPT if India does the same. There is a last observation concerning the Pakistani election
which could affect the entire region. The Nawaz government, with its impeccable conservative credentials, went ahead and improved relations with
neighboring India, relations which are vital not only to the economic well-being of the Indo-Pakistani economies, but the stability and
prosperity of the entire South Asian region.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1993

417 SEWHERI NOTES

“The need to pass a law to disarm children is a reminder of how prevalent violence has become in America.
Often young people aren’t merely its perpetrators; they’re also its victims. Homicide is a leading cause of death among America’s
children, and the leading cause among young black males. As with other childhood scourges, the best solution is prevention. So
if lawmakers are looking for a symbolic inspirational model for the juvenile-justice reforms to come later, they should focus less
on the frontier marshal forcibly disarming youthful gunslingers—and more on a Jonas Salk figure whose mission is to prevent, to
cure, to heal.” - from the October 17, 1993 editorial pages of The Miami Herald

A greenhouse government

“It’s been said that no scientific theory gains public acceptance until it has been thoroughly discredited. Nowhere is that notion
better illustrated than in the debate over so-called greenhouse gas emissions, which was given new life on Tuesday by the
Clinton administration’s announcement of its plan to reduce these emissions. While the plan has been treated to uncritical press coverage,
few have questioned its foundation and the massive costs it will impose on the American public... Why is the administration
submitting this plan when many higher priority issues remain unaddressed? To give them the benefit of the doubt, the predictions
of global warming have been pretty scary and, if true, warrant some sort of reaction. But are they true?... Interestingly,
in the mid-1970s, there was a similar debate raging over climate. At that time, the fear was of an impending
ice age, rather than an inferno. This might be an amusing footnote of little historical interest but for one thing.
The policies proposed to save us from ice were identical to those now being proposed to save us from fire.
The predictions have changed but the prescriptions have not: Government must grow so that energy consumption will shrink.” - from
“More Hot Air on Greenhouse Gases” by Kent Jeffries in the October 22, 1993 editorial pages of The Wall Street
Journal

Red Mountain doesn’t want your money

“When the federal government comes calling with a handout, most cities and towns are glad to take it. But not
Red Mountain, a small village just north of North Carolina’s Research Triangle. Seems Durham County has been trying to give
the town of Red Mountain $613,000 in federal housing grants and interest-free loans to spruce up its deteriorating homes and
improve the image of the Research Triangle environs. But the folks in Red Mountain say they don’t trust the government
and don’t want charity. Billy Parrish, who still has an outhouse, asked, ‘Why not give that money to someone who
needs it more?’ Good question. Better yet, why not apply it to the national debt?” - from the October 17,
1993 editorial pages of The State.

On the Cuban embargo

“Even the Castro regime is ambivalent about what might happen if [the U.S. trade embargo] were lifted. 'It would solve
our problems of food and medicines,' Cuban Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina noted recently. 'But it would create a huge problem
with culture, with the discussion of ideas and values. We would have to contend with that.' Hmm. One wonders how
Castro, Robaina & Co. could possibly compete.” - from the October 17, 1993 editorial pages of The Atlanta Journal &
Constitution
