ARTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1993 11

Still Whistlin' Dixie: Geoff Graham

Country stars sing the Eagles in Common CD

For those of us still blindly hoping for an Eagles reunion, Don Henley and his crew at the Walden Woods
Project have tossed out a teasing morsel. Common Thread: The Songs of the Eagles just hit the record stores last
week. Thirteen leading country artists joined hands to pay tribute to the greatest band of the 1970s while helping to
preserve “environmentally sensitive and historically significant forestland near Henry David Thoreau’s famed retreat at Walden Pond.”

I know what a lot of you are thinking. “Oh, great. A bunch of yahoos out there butchering my favorite
tunes. That’s just what I need.” I’ll be the first to admit a few of these songs don’t quite hit
the mark, but for the most part they are refreshing interpretations tinged with just enough originality to remain loyal to
their progenitors.

Before you scoff, keep in mind that the Eagles are rumored to have begun their career, not with a lead
guitar, but with a lead banjo. They got their start, supposedly, as a Bluegrass band. If you don’t believe me,
slip in “Seven Bridges Road” or “Take it Easy.” Can you hear that rolling flatpicking and the echo of a
banjo in the background? You’ll hear it again on Common Thread. You won’t like it all, but you’ll hear it
again.

Travis Tritt opens the album with his creative version of “Take It Easy.” Surprisingly, Travis sounds pretty good. However, the
tasteless arrangement lacks elegance. An insane guitar refuses to stay quiet and ruins the song. Little Texas, on the other
hand, does justice to my all-time favorite guitar solo on “Peaceful Easy Feeling.” If Dwayne O’Brien had only kept his
mouth shut it would have been a great tune. I have only one thing to say about “Heartache Tonight:” John
Anderson can’t sing. Tanya Tucker makes the last mistake on the album with “Already Gone.” I had hoped for something
of the calibre of “Two Sparrows in a Hurricane” and ended up with another Delbert McClinton duet.

With those out of the way, I’ll move on. The rest of the album would make Henry himself proud. Clint
Black doesn’t change a thing for “Desperado,” and I’m not sure I’ve ever heard him sing with more heart. Alan
Jackson, the greatest voice in Country today, can do no wrong. “Tequila Sunrise” was originally a country song, but with
that voice and that steel guitar it becomes pure Country. “Saturday Night,” Billy Dean style, made my heart melt. There’s
nothing more heart-wrenching than lost love heralded with a crying fiddle.

The final six songs were pleasant surprises. Vince Gill’s “I Can’t Tell You Why” is one of the album’s best.
Brooks & Dunn sing with startling ability on “Best Of My Love.” The boys from Diamond Rio, being the incredible
musicians they are, do wondrous things with “Lying Eyes.” Somehow, they manage to show off without making it obvious. With
the exception of Tanya Tucker, the women on the album are fantastic. Suzy Bogguss sings “Take it to the Limit,”
(she twists a word or two to keep it from sounding kinda funky) with her patented enthusiasm. Trisha Yearwood (who
enlisted Don Henley’s aid last summer for “Walkaway Joe”) performs “New Kid in Town” faithfully and superbly. Common Thread ends
with Lorrie Morgan singing “The Sad Cafe.” I couldn’t help but think of her late husband, Keith Whitley, and his
suicide. I couldn’t pick a better Country artist, man or woman, to sing this one.

We may rant and rave about one genre being better than another, but in the end, it’s all music. Albums
like Common Thread and bands like the Eagles make that point stronger than I ever could in words. Country, Rock,
Blues, everything—they all have their ties to one another. I think that’s what Don Henley tried to say with the
title. We all have our common threads.

Photo by Casey Rogers
The Brentano String Quartet practices Thursday night before their Friday night performance in which they premiered Milton Babbitt's String Quartet
No. 6.

Babbitt "wows" Davidson audience
By Carrie Blackburn

Milton Babbitt, the world-renowned composer, offered a Davidson audience a special treat Friday night when the Brentano String Quartet performed
the world debut of Babbitt's String Quartet No. 6. The piece represents Babbitt’s 12-tone system which he revolutionized in America.
Part of the special nature of this technique involves its technical aspect which can best be explained arithmetically.

In an interview in the November 14th issue of The Charlotte Observer, Babbitt cautions, however, “that to assert that you
could begin with some mathematical tautology and end up with music is absurd.” In his lecture in which he discussed
“Music in Our Time,” Babbitt emphasized how misrepresented the 12-tone system continues to be. He cautioned that it does not
entail having to use each tone once until one is repeated, but within it...“The ordering is constantly, vividly present.” Babbitt
alluded to the musical revolution which he witnessed firsthand in New York when composers such as Schoenberg and Berg escaped
the Nazi wrath in Germany. He said that the “materials were always there; the organization of music changed.”

Babbitt’s heavy involvement with the schooling side of music has influenced his opinion of public education in music. He “worries
about the disappearance of formal conditioning in our schools...[because] there is no discipline for music...in most public schools.”

To truly appreciate great music, a listener must be discerning enough to relate current pieces with ones previously heard, Babbitt
believes. Another concern of Babbitt’s involves the lack of performers willing to play new music today. Most performers simply want
to gain fame by re-creating older music rather than risking new styles. Fortunately, through the help of universities, musicians like
the Brentano String Quartet and Robert Taub are still willing to perform Babbitt’s innovative style.

Taub, an old friend of Babbitt’s, truly understands the complexity of the 12-tone method which was apparent in his dramatic
performance. A press release cites Taub as “an internationally acclaimed leader in the new generation of virtuoso pianists.”

A festival headlined by Milton Babbitt, featuring the Brentano String Quartet and Robert Taub is an impressive assemblage anywhere, but
especially when it occurs right in our own backyard. The festival began Thursday evening with a public lecture by Babbitt
entitled “A Composer of a Certain Age” and continued on Friday morning with another lecture for music majors on “My
Life with Twelve Pitch Classes.” Also on Friday, Babbitt and pianist Robert Taub participated in a lecture/rehearsal in the afternoon
and a pre-concert roundtable with Claudio Spies that evening. Friday night featured the Brentano String Quartet comprised of Mark Steinberg
and Serena Canin (violins), Misha Amory (viola), and Michael Kannen (cello). The final event of the weekend on Saturday evening
witnessed Robert Taub in concert as part of the Artist Series.

Music professor Dr. Mauro Botelho summed up the event: "Getting this is a major coup for Davidson." (Note: Due to
Babbitt’s pressing time schedule, he was unavailable for an interview.)

Screen Scene

Don't spend the Remains of your day at this bombshell

This week, in search of culture I suppose, I ventured into the theater to see The Remains of the Day.
This is the latest collaboration from the same team that brought us Howard’s End and A Room With a View—director
James Ivory working with his longtime colleagues Ismail Merchant (producer) and Ruth Jabvala (writer). Again they adapt from a novel
(this time by Kazuo Ishiguro and not E.M. Forster) which serves to reunite Howard’s End stars Anthony Hopkins and Emma
Thompson.

Now, I saw Howard’s End for the first time a couple of weeks ago, and I must say that I
was less than impressed with it. I was then a little skeptical about seeing The Remains of the Day because
of my disastrous experience with Howard’s End, but having read such good things about it, I decided to give it
a chance. Child, I should have left giving stuff a chance to John Lennon because this was one lemon I
could have done without seeing. It also goes to show what passes for “culture” these days, but that’s a discussion
for another day.

Anyway, the story centers on Mr. Stevens (Hopkins), the head butler at Darlington Hall. Stevens is dedicated to serving his
master, Lord Darlington, to the best of his ability and then some. Helping him to run the estate is Miss
Kenton (Thompson), head of housekeeping and his would-be love interest. Their lives at Darlington Hall are recounted in a series
of flashbacks as Stevens drives to the English coast to visit Miss Kenton, whom he has not seen in twenty
years. Intermingled with the tale of their thwarted romance as a backdrop is the story of Lord Darlington, a Nazi
sympathizer whose political involvement attracts great diplomats to Darlington Hall.

As for the actors in this film, they really did a great job. Both Hopkins and Thompson were convincing in
their roles and to watch the romantic tension between them in their scenes together was magical. Unfortunately for both of
them, they were in a story that went absolutely nowhere. For the five minutes of intense passion and great acting,
there was an extremely dull two and a half hours of so-called political intrigue and preparing for dinner parties. In
addition to this, the story is told so inconsistently that I did not know if I was watching a love
story or receiving a history lesson.

If you’re brave enough to actually see this one, remember to bring your pillow because I guarantee you’ll be asleep
after the first hour. The final word: The Remains of the Day should have remained a novel.

This movie has been rated PG by the Motion Picture Association of America. Although it contains no nudity or violence,
the subject matter is for mature audiences.
