THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1993

The IMAC Beat: Flickerball gears up for championships
By Rick Thurmond

It’s tourney time for IMAC. After a successful flickerball season, marked by its share of rain, both the Men’s A
and B leagues as well as the Women’s league are deep into their respective tournaments. After what may seem a
marathon tournament, championships for all three leagues will be held on Sunday, November 7th.

Of the three, the Women’s league has been the most competitive this year. Despite the fact that there were several
competent freshmen teams, the four teams remaining in the tournament are all holdovers from last season. Among the four, there
is no clear-cut favorite to take the crown. This week, Duncan’s Revenge, clad in tie-dyes, squares off against the Stairmasters,
the feared squad clad in all black, in the winner’s bracket. The Stairmasters, captained and quarterbacked by Susanna Young, squeaked
by the Connor Jesters, captained by Laurie Self, in overtime 12-6 to stay in the winner’s bracket. The Jesters, coached
by brilliant strategist Scott Vermillion, now must play the BBB’s in the loser bracket. The winner earns the right to
try and beat the winner of Duncan’s Revenge-Stairmasters twice for the championship.

The Men’s B league features four high-powered freshman halls: The Smileyheads & Basement Belk in the winner’s bracket; the Pest
and Go Getcha Some in the loser’s. The Men’s A league season has been a rather one-sided one. No one
has come close to beating Tool Times, an independent team captained by Chris Shields. Tool Times defeated Just Average Guys
handily in the first round to advance into the winner’s bracket. The other winner’s bracket team is the Mad Dawgs,
a freshman hall that has stuck together.

C-C competes in Southern Conference meet
By Jean DeMoss

Tapering, carbohydrate loading, plenty of sleep, and positive mental attitudes—all the proper steps for a successful showing at the Southern
Conference Cross-Country Championships. Eight women's teams converged on Saturday, October 30 at Charles Towne Landing, the Citadel’s home course. Every
aspect of the race could be controlled, except for the weather. The rain started Friday evening, a slow steady drizzle.
On Saturday morning a downpour woke nervous runners from a sound slumber. The men competed first, and tore up the
course. Eric McMichael led the men’s team, finishing fifteenth place in the Conference. By the time the gun went off
for the women’s race at 11 a.m., the course was a rain-sloshed mud pit. On the first straightaway, runners struggled
through the mud trying not to lose their spikes. The weather conditions slowed down the pace of the race, but
it was still intense. While sophomore Phoung Nguyen was sidelined at the start because of injury, freshmen Erin Roach and
Stephanie Moses took an early lead for the Wildcats. At the first mile mark, the top five were within fifteen
seconds of one another. The course twisted and turned around lagoons and scenic homesteads. Alligators stayed in the ponds; the
cold rain kept them underwater. Second mile splits were slower, but the harriers picked it up for the third mile.
Carolyn Meadows crossed the finish line first for the Wildcats (20:27) and Erin Roach (20:31) and Stephanie Moses (20:36) finished
right behind. Katie McKelvie and Jean DeMoss rounded out the top five. Despite not having a runner in the top
ten, the team finished a respectable sixth, better than expected before the season started. The team wraps up the season
in two weeks at the region meet at Furman. There they hope for continued improvement in what has been a
positive season.

Men's Soccer
FRI Nov. 5 SC Tourney in Greensboro

Football
SAT Nov. 6 at Centre

Volleyball
THU Nov. 4 UNCGREENSBORO
SAT Nov. 6 at UTC
SUN Nov. 7 at Georgia Southern

Swimming
FRI Nov. 5 at College of Charleston

INSTITUTE FOR STUDY ABROAD
BUTLER UNIVERSITY
UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES IN GREAT BRITAIN AUSTRALIA IRELAND NEW ZEALAND

Fully integrated study at British, Irish, New Zealand and Australian universities
FALL OR SPRING SEMESTER ° FULL YEAR INSTEP * SUMMER PROGRAM ° INTERNSHIPS

Study Abroad Information Session
Representative: Mike Roberts
Date: Thurs. Nov. 4, 1993
Time: 10:30 - 11:15
Location: Morrison Rm. of College Union
Table in Union Lobby

For further information please contact:
Your Study Abroad Office on campus or the Institute for Study Abroad, Butler University, 4600 Sunset Avenue, Indianapolis, IN 46208,
Tel: 317/283-9336 or 1/800-368-6852 Ext. 9336.together for three years. The IMAC board wants to thank all the teams and especially
the referees for their cooperation in yet another outstanding season. We also want to remind everyone that five-on-five basketball rosters
are due November 9th.

Volleyball restructures

Ball continued from page 17

built large leads, but had to hold off fierce comebacks. In the second game, the Wildcats jumped to leads of
10-3 and 14-5 before Furman fought back to within one point. Michele Augustin then put the game away with a
nice hit. In the final game, the Paladins had leads of 12-3 and 14-5. But the Wildcats didn’t throw the
match away, instead pulling to 14-13. Furman, however, put the game and match away with a block of a spike.

Despite losing, Blake was pleased with the team’s ability to institute the changes. “We shifted the pressure from our younger
players to older players who can handle the pressure better,” she said. “We tried to simplify things.”

“They did exactly what I wanted of them,” she added. “With time, everyone’s going to get more comfortable with it.”

On Friday the volleyball team played strong versus Western Carolina. Davidson defeated the Catamounts 15-7, 15-12, and 15-5. Their record
now stands at 11-15, 1-1 in the conference. On Thursday, the Cats will face UNC-Greensboro at home. The rest of
the season looks undeniably positive.

Losing streak ends at six for Cats

Slagle continued from page 17

fensive total for the six games prior to the victory. The second half of the season has been frustrating, going
2-6-1 in the final nine games. “We let some bad breaks take us out of our game,” said Slagle. Along
with several injuries and lost players, the tough competition at the beginning of the season seems to have caused more
harm than help. The six-game road trip sticks out as the season’s key stretch, where the Cats went 1-5, never
seeming to recover from the tough tie against NC State.

“We’re not being aggressive enough in the final 20 yards of both ends, we’re doing too much spectating, we’re not
making things happen, and we’re watching things happen to us or waiting for things to happen to us, and in
soccer, it’s very difficult to score with that kind of play,” said Slagle.

The 7-11-2 record consisted of a 5-8 record on the road and a 2-3-2 record at home. The home games
were highlighted with a victory over Wake Forest, a tie versus NC State, and the overtime loss to Duke. Slagle
notes that, “This team is one that when things are going well, they can play very well.” Hopefully, the team
can peak this weekend.

Invite your friends and family to

NCAA SOCCER CHAMPIONSHIP
DECEMBER 3 AND 5

Tickets to all three games
Hotel (2 nights) - breakfast and dinner
FROM $149.00 per person double occupancy
AIRLINE TICKETS AND CAR RENTALS ALSO AVAILABLE
TRAVEL NETWORK 896-7480
South Lake Center - Between Roses' and Harris Teeter

Now all the wins, losses, and ties can be thrown out of the window, it’s the post season now. Davidson
has just as strong of a chance to win the tournament as any other team in the conference. Anyone who
saw the Furman or Appalachian or Marshall games knows that the tournament championship can be defended. The little things are
what’s important now in order to win three games in a row this weekend. Right now is the last time
to become overconfident or look past teams. Slagle heeds, “The first thing we have to do is concentrate on Marshall,
and do the things we have to do to win.”

With the late season emergence of freshman Robert Clarke as a more reliable source for offense, and the increasingly impressive
play of the other freshmen, a week of rest may be all Davidson needs to return to the NCAA tournament.
Still, players that have been there the past two to three years will be the most important factor in the
team’s performance this weekend. Make the trip to Greensboro to support the Wildcats in post-season play this Friday.

Directions to Southern Conference Soccer Tournament
November 5-7

Take I-77 North to Statesville. Then I-40 to Winston Salem. Then I-85 North to Raleigh. Take U.S. 29 North Exit.
Turn left on Hicone Rd. (3rd Light) Turn right on Summit Avenue. Then left on Bryan Park Road.
6275 Bryan Park Road
Tel. (919) 375-2222
