THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1993 9

Nathan Seay

After three weeks, TV, Nastiness, and me

I’m sure that all of you have noticed the hype building up to the showing of ABC’s NYPD Blue. For
those of you living under rocks, let me fill you in. A network has finally decided to run some realistic
programming, which happened to include some questionable language and a butt cheek or two. A bunch of right-wing organizations got
together and raised a clamor, which only served to pique my interest. I’ll try anything that upsets Jerry Falwell and
Jimmy Swaggart.

Here’s my point: I can understand if you are offended by the “s” word or the “f” word and don’t
want them said on television. I can live with that. The thing that upsets me is the hypocrisy of it
all. There are so many words that are so much more offensive to me that are said about four thousand
times a day. I like to think that I’m strong. I don’t cringe at much. I can handle any word
in the English language until one of those feminine hygiene commercials comes on. How do the powers that be decide
that people can’t say the “f” word, but when the commercial breaks roll around, you have to plug up your
ears?

If I were in charge of a television station (and it will become very apparent why I’m not within two
sentences), I would launch my own nonviolent protest. Instead of saying that someone is a “gosh-darned son of a bean
eater,” why not have a character turn around and say, “You constipated fool! What’s wrong with you? Do you have
a yeast infection or something? Go take your hemorrhoids someplace else! And while you’re at it, douche away that not-so-fresh
feeling! No, I’m not in a good mood. I have diarrhea.” The censors wouldn’t be able to touch it. The
exact same thing will be said moments later by an attractive woman letting the world know things about her that
I wouldn’t want to know about anyone.

And what’s up with all the people who aren’t satisfied with their movements? (I’m not talking about Beethoven.) People are
constantly griping on television about not moving enough. This rarely comes up in my daily conversation. Let me rephrase that.
I think that it rarely comes up in normal people’s conversations. I just can’t see a petite little girl leaning
over to one of her friends and saying, “It’s such a beautiful day. It’s a shame I can’t enjoy it
more. I can’t go to the bathroom, you see.”

And what about the nudity? I am a firm believer that clothes are silly and frivolous (except when it’s really
cold out). I don’t see a problem with nudity, but I respect the opinions of others, and can see their
point about not wanting butts on TV. But the networks, again, are being inconsistent in their censorship policies. Practically every
diaper and soap commercial manages to squeeze a rear end into their commercials. “Oh, but it’s just a little baby’s
bottom. It’s just so cute. What could possibly be wrong with that?” I have no argument with you. But I
happen to think that Sharon Stone has a cute little tush, too. Why can’t she show hers on television?

Here’s something I’d like to discuss: how old does a butt have to be before it is no longer allowed
to be shown on TV? If you show someone’s bottom on television, what’s wrong with showing the exact same bottom
twenty years later? It’s the same flesh, only a tad bigger. I don’t think that the networks should be so
concerned with censoring words known by every five-year-old in America. They are learning much more offensive language every time a
commercial comes on.

I hope that NYPD Blue is a success. But you can count on it failing if it goes the way
of every other quality television series to come along. The religious right will claim it a victory of their morality,
and stations will probably shy away from intelligent, realistic shows and still churn out politically correct schlock like Full House.
But maybe, just maybe, NYPD Blue will stay on the air, “s” words, nudity, and all. If the ratings stay
good, the networks may catch on to what the people really want: Andrew Shue mooning us every week on Melrose
Place.

"They weren't naked, it was nudity!"

Ney continued from page 7

impact? I found your arguments for nudity at the very best to be hopelessly weak. Was the weak reasoning due
to a turtleneck that was too tight or the third cup of cappuccino in a smoke-filled room? (Please do not
inhale—you may want to run for President someday.)

Now in response, one might say that I am a very narrow-minded person and I would agree. That is, however,
not to mean that being broad-minded is a virtue or that being narrow-minded is a sign of ignorance or lacking
reason. It has always been my belief that the way to truth, honor, and virtue is a narrow way for
focused minds. Maybe they are just dumb goals in life. Is Davidson on this narrow path? I fear not. I
fear it has given up too much and has not the courage, the will, nor the desire to be an
institution of higher learning in a world of low living.

“Captain Kirk to Enterprise. Beam me up, Scotty. There is no intelligent life down here.”

“Quis custodiet ipsos custodes?” Abeunt studia in mores,

Peter Stuart Ney

"Li do not Neal Yad: we, shod SARS MUIR 5 grits) (Cnn Cake ) Horeser do you cealize Hut we
: speed Villian of, toxpuers dollars on deSemse whan we easily beeHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original
meaning and punctuation:

---

Her capacity to overwhelm any child with status is; sibbe OGRE rere WHAT 22 Do you know, would it become
Cond Kid some H& Ha manage Yat we Spad m dense +d ped Am sonating the health care that would
take care of our people oh how logical it is we So, does anybody like voice Semester in Exile: Chris
Frampton or boy mail. I have to be honest, I hated it at first, but I am coming around: It
They only gave me the cartoon | just takes patience. Besides, without voice mail, I never would have a measly
10 inches learned what "Eres una buena coje" means. So, like I said, there is very little room in this
week's issue. My grades at UNCC are slipping because it turns out that chemistry and calculus are hard courses no
matter where you take them. My rent has been due for entirely too long for me not to have paid
it, sorry Spear. I owe the state of North Carolina for an ugly series of speeding tickets. My back hurts
from falling asleep on the couch entirely too often. And, to top it all off, I only have like ten
inches of space to fill in this week's edition which allows for very little exploration in the realm of well-developed
and intelligent crap. All of this would be fine, however, if I could just figure out where I put that
bottle of bourbon. Anyway, with rush winding down I thought that I would give everyone an accurate picture of the
world down on Patterson Court, but I think I already did that. Actually, the last time I did that I
really pissed off a house, so never mind. Dear Jeff George, Telling everyone that you are a potential rapist is
not a good way to pick up chicks. Sincerely, Chris Frampton which means I am done. Next week, after taking
yet another test in one of those ever-important core requirement courses I am taking, I will write something long and
drawn out and very uninteresting. (Does anyone else think that it is ironic that Davidson has these certain requirements but
then allows students to earn them at another school. Me, too.) To drink or not to drink, it is a
simple problem. This last sentence is being written for the simple reason that I needed to fill another three lines
of copy.

Open Letter

The difference you can make

To the community,

This Wednesday, November 17, is the annual bone marrow drive, during which everyone has the opportunity to add their names
to the Bone Marrow Registry. I signed up my freshman year during the drive, and I was lucky enough to
match with a 44-year-old man with chronic leukemia. I donated my bone marrow last April to try and cure his
leukemia. The procedure itself was not very painful, about the same as getting your wisdom teeth out. The only danger
is the small risk associated with the anesthesia. The doctors took the marrow from my pelvic bone, so my backside
was a little sore for a couple of days, and I was playing in a lacrosse tournament by the next
weekend. My recipient’s name is Rich, and he has a wife Barbara, and two sons, Rich Jr. (21 yrs.) and
Michael (16 yrs.). We have been able to communicate with each other through the Red Cross, and I call the
Charlotte Red Cross every so often to check on him. The last I heard he was doing really well. He
has made it through the hard part so things are looking good for his future. The best part has been
the letters that I have gotten from Rich and his family, for they have given me the chance to get
to know more about him and his life. I want to share some of them with you so you can
realize what a difference you can make if you match with someone:

To my dear sweet donor,

During the last ten days, we destroyed all of my cancer. You are the link that makes me whole again.
The moment your marrow is fed into me, the emotion that I will have will overtake any words that I
could write down on paper. But I promise that I will not let you down and that your marrow will
grow in me. There are always negatives with positives, even though I don’t dwell on them. For some reason if
this doesn’t work out, please don’t think your effort was for nothing. Try again for someone else someday.

Love, Rich

P.S. See You Soon!

Someday we’ll have a full bone marrow registry thanks to people like yourself, your family, and your friends. No one
should be denied a bone marrow transplant because there isn’t a match available.

Dear Megan,

First of all, I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart for what you’ve done for Rich.
It takes a special person to do what you’ve done. Rich is doing well, he’s had a few bad days,
but all in all, he is doing well. He’s now making his own blood and platelets. He is a very
energetic person, he plays golf and softball, so being cooped up in the hospital is starting to get to him.
As he said, “I can only read so many golf magazines.” Megan, thank you again for everything. Keep in touch
as I will, and hope to meet you when we can.

Love, Barbara

This experience was the best thing that I have ever done and I encourage everyone to sign up on Wednesday,
for as Rich said, “No one should be denied a bone marrow transplant because there isn’t a match available.”

Sincerely, Megan Snyder
