10 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1993

In Black & White: Tene' Moore & Chris Edmonston

Beauty is in the eye of the beholder. Images of beauty: rainbows; sunsets over ocean vistas; snowy mountain peaks; freshly cut roses; bright stars on clear nights. If we all agree that these are universal images of beauty, then why do we differentiate along cultural and racial lines when evaluating physical beauty? We understand that everyone has personal “beauty standards.” However, stereotypes often steer our perceptions away from honest feelings of attraction. Stereotypes push everyone towards a beauty “norm.” This “norm” is the false belief that only women who are thin, have long straight hair, slender faces, or light-colored eyes are beautiful. We (particularly Americans) are constantly bombarded with these public images. Even though definitions are constantly changing, the “norm” has remained constant. We are confronted on our televisions, in our magazines, and in our malls. Marilyn Monroe remains the archetype. A recent article in Essence magazine states, “Oh yes, sometimes the look changes as those who are styled arbiters decree brunettes, exotics or ethnics the latest ‘in’ look. But no matter that they may sing the praises of voluptuous this year or dark sultry the next, the objects of beauty are always overwhelmingly white. And as the ambitious so-so singer Madonna knew when she reached for the bleach and peroxide, blonde is still considered the apogee.”

Here at Davidson, we fall victim as well. While no exact figures are known, eating disorders appear to be prevalent at our college. How many times have we gone to the weight room, aerobics, or running due to guilty feelings about appearances or because “everyone else is doing it?” Likewise, have you ever found yourself thinking “She sure is pretty for a black girl” or, “He has a cute butt for a white guy?” Will there ever be a universal image of beauty? As you make your own beauty judgments keep this in mind,

Beauty am I, Spirit am I. I am the infinite within my soul. I can find no beginning, I can find no end, All this I am!

The Princeton of the South continued from page 7

school. Others can’t believe such a bright guy as myself would go to a redneck, no-name school in North Carolina. “Ignorance is bliss,” the old line says. I’d like to add that ignorance is bliss, but it is still ignorance, and uninformed folks are missing out. Fine, we all know that. Davidson is the best school in the country, bar none, and my oh-so-Ivy high school classmates who go to the Tea Room instead of The Pub, who take arrogance 101 instead of Humes, who are in classes with more people than there are living in the town of Davidson, and who use pickup lines like, “PBS turns me on,” are missing out. This chubby Davidson man takes that as an insult. I’ll gladly exchange nobody knowing where I go to school for the education I’m getting and the friends I have here. Besides, do I need another self-congratulatory ego boost anyway?

People tell me Davidson is going national. Why? I was diligent enough in my college search to locate a hidden gem. Hooray for me, and for others like me. I don’t want people from my high school to come down here and think they own the place, they’re so sophisticated, so “cutting-edge,” with such a can’t-miss future. Students work hard here, even me. Students play hard here. Just ask Yale soccer. Does anything advertised on TV work? Selsun Blue? Bufferin? Hair Club for Men (I’m not only a columnist, but soon to be a customer)? Well, I’m not one to say, but I know that Davidson is what it says it is. I’m just wondering if, because of some people’s urge to attract Ivy leaguers here, Davidson will start misrepresenting itself, or worse yet, change into a self-styled Princeton of the South. We will always attract the Davidson type—honorable, well-rounded, and intelligent—if we tell the truth. Davidson is not for everyone. Pardon me if by this I bug any reform-minded non-traditionalists, but thank God.

The Davidsonian

As cool as it gets

Resident Cynic

You go, Yeltsin! But, does that justify his crackdown on the...

I have this book, A Guide for the Advanced Soul, that I often read when troubled. The editor, Susan Hayward, put together a bunch of insightful quotations, designed to help with any dilemma. I’ve been dwelling too much on the past. I’ve wasted a lot of time harboring anger at someone that did me a wrong turn not too long ago. So I again turned to the book. The message I got was this: “Dwell not on the past. Use it to illustrate a point, then leave it behind. Nothing really matters except what...you do now in this instant of time.” Dwelling on the past has always been a big problem for me. My inability to separate experience from emotion has kept me from many realizations and has ensured my learning a few lessons the hard way. But what the quotation says is true. The only instant of time that really matters to us is right now. Regretting the past or dreading the future accomplishes only one thing: making a mess of the present. This morning I walked around campus preoccupied, totally lost in my anger towards this person. “What she did was wrong. I have a right to be angry with her,” I thought to myself. But what is that anger accomplishing? The experience I had is over. I went through it. I’m not going through it anymore. Yet emotionally I feel like I am. Sound familiar? The emotions we associate with the past can prevent us from experiencing the present as we should. Indeed, the emotions often get in the way of the lesson we should have learned, the lesson we should be applying to life right now. What did my anger do for me today? It kept me from studying, from enjoying the conversations I had, and from appreciating the beautiful morning surrounding me. Learn from experience. Don’t regret it, or feel pain for it now. It’s difficult to say what the past is, whether it’s good or bad. The only thing we know for sure about the past is that it’s gone. So start fresh every morning, leaving yesterday’s emotions behind so you can feel today’s fully, as you should. Don’t waste the present. It’s all you’ve got.

Semester in Exile: Chris Frampton

Why so much country music? Idiocy. The scourge of our society. The plague that runs rampant among those of higher stature. The disease that has set our once illustrious college on a crash course with ruin. And in no place is idiocy more prevalent than the pages of the Davidsonian. I am not talking about the opinions of most of our columnists. I am not talking about the editorials provided by our distinguished editorial staff. I am not talking about the news stories or Cat Nips or the cartoons. I am talking about one simple, hideously disgusting aspect of the paper that cannot be avoided. Folks, there are two country music columns. Without a doubt, country music is the most idiotic, pointless form of music in the history of the world, civilized or uncivilized. Disco has more rhythm. Classical has more class. Rock and roll has more soul. Country music is just stupid, stupid music. Actually, that is not true. Country music’s culture does involve intelligence. Take for example the dance steps. To dance to country you have to practice, practice, practice. You have to memorize those complicated steps. You have to learn to lead or learn to follow. But most importantly, you have to learn to count to four. To play country guitar is even more complicated. Not only do you have to be able to count to four, but you also have to learn to play three chords: G, C, D. If you want to be one of the all-time greatest, you might learn an F or even, now this is a little crazy, an A. But perhaps the most wonderful example of the intelligence involved with the country culture comes in the form of sport. Actually, calling car racing a sport is a bit of a stretch, but I’ll give it the benefit of the doubt for the sake of argument. Consider NASCAR on TV: “Here goes Rusty, he’s going to make a left turn. Now he’s going to make another left turn. Uh, oh, it’s left again.” Wow, what excitement. But for an even greater sign of idiocy, I mean intelligence, consider NASCAR on the radio, though thinking about it may be a sign of a sub-40 IQ, so you might not be able to. Now, I am not talking about the intelligence of our country columnists. Well, maybe I am. But I am sure there must be a smart country fan out there. Although I would also bet that person was a little psychologically disturbed. (i.e. Crazy as a drunken wombat.) But here is the topper problem with country: I think Bill Gullan likes it. I will give the country music fans on campus a bit of credit. They did manage to take and pass their core requirements, and they still go to school here, which is something your illustrious columnist (me) does not do. However, I wanted to congratulate myself for writing a whole column about one topic. Of course, I want to end it by reminding you to take (and pass) your core courses.