12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1993

Flip Side

Big Star's not just a supermarket and Columbia proves it

By Tom Bavis

Imagine you are at a party attended by members of some of the coolest bands of the last decade — including R.E.M., the Replacements, the Gin Blossoms, Teenage Fanclub, the Bangles (when they were still decent), and even Davidson’s own Electro-luxe — and they ask you to crank up some music. With all their diverse tastes and touchy egos, how could you possibly pick something with enough universal appeal to keep them all from smashing an electric mandolin on your head? Hopefully, you would have a copy of the newly-released recording of the reunion concert from the one group cited by all of them as a favorite and influence — Big Star.

“Big Star,” you ask, “Isn’t that a grocery store?” To their small legion of ardent fans, Big Star the group has long since meant more than the supermarket after which they named themselves. The group never reunited since their final split in 1974, but their tragic history has made itself a place in rock n’ roll legend. The group’s record label could not properly manage the group or distribute its records. They became frustrated and disintegrated almost as soon as it formed. As a result, their three albums, #1 Record (1972), Radio City (1974), and Sister Lovers (also 1974) are filled with an interesting mix of restraint and chaos that soars over musical trends. The albums are among the best-kept secrets in rock music, conveying emotion with soulful playing that has been simultaneously compared to the Beatles and R & B.

After almost twenty years and the loss of two original members (a guitarist died and the bassist dropped out of music), I didn’t think singer/guitarist Alex Chilton and drummer Jody Stephens could get together and show any connection to their distant past. Yet Columbia, a 50-minute recording of their first and only reunion show earlier this year at Missouri University, is far from the nostalgia trip I feared. Quite the contrary, Chilton and Stephens, with the help of Ken Stringfellow and Jon Auer of the Posies, tear through the Big Star catalogue with as much soul and more guts than the original recordings. The show hits an early climax with “Don’t Lie to Me,” an angry rocker about, to put things simply, standing up to people. With the guitars screaming like a derailing train, the band barely holds together as Alex screams, “I told my dad and now I’m telling you — don’t push me ‘round!” It’s rabid, it’s illiterate, and it rocks as hard as anything I’ve ever heard.

Beyond that, Big Star proves with Columbia that they can do more than just tear their vocal cords apart. The soulful version of “The Ballad of El Goodo,” already one of the most beautiful songs of the past 50 years, beats the likes of seasoned romantic songwriters Marc Cohn and James Taylor at their own game.own game. Chilton still sounds like the philosophical 21-year-old he was when he wrote the song: “It gets so hard at times like now to hold on; but I know I’ve got to stand or fall and I believe I’m going to stand tall.” Among the eleven stunning originals are three covers. The first two, “Baby Strange” and “Slut,” are rollicking classics from the Seventies intended to keep the band from getting overly emotional. The third cover was “I am the Cosmos,” played in memory of its writer, the late Big Star guitarist Chris Bell. Every song, original or otherwise, makes up in soul and determination what it loses from sloppy playing and reunion jitters. Ken Stringfellow and Jon Auer of the Posies play stunningly. Their perfection is not surprising; The Posies have made a career out of reworking the Big Star sound. Their starry-eyed enthusiasm complements the maturity of Chilton and Stephens. With this beautiful chemistry, the young guys are somehow able to relax among their idols and the old veterans regain their youthful vigor. All together the performance was, as Chilton is quoted in the liner notes, “loose as a goose, and it rocked more than the first time around.” Columbia has made me a Big Star fan all over again.

Davidson weeps for teen idol
By Susan Warren

The death of teen idol River Phoenix shocked and surprised many Davidson students. Phoenix collapsed early last Sunday morning in Los Angeles outside a nightclub. Though the cause of death has yet to be determined, his brother who was with him said he had been using drugs. Phoenix was 23 years old. He was best known for his role in Stand By Me and his Academy Award nomination for Running on Empty.

“I didn’t feel much grief. It’s too bad that a young person has to die before living a full life,” said junior Ashley Atkins.

Sophomore Mary Laura Moretz said, “It has such a big impact not because he’s one of the greatest actors that ever lived, but because he’s close to our age and we identified with him, especially in Stand By Me.”

Sophomore Meredith Hayden spoke about his death saying, “It made me mad that everyone assumed it was a drug overdose.”

Sophomore Eliza Edgar was a big fan of River Phoenix when she was younger and spoke of his death saying, “I was so surprised I did not believe he was dead. He was my idol in seventh grade because of Stand By Me. His death is a rude awakening.”

Sophomore Sarah Webster spoke about his death as a “large dose of reality that movie stars are not invincible.”

What country means to me
Dixie continued from page 11

a simple music for simple, honest people, we might say something else. Maybe you’re a self-actualized, stable individual, content and unassuming. Maybe you’re satisfied to read the book without dwelling on the whiteness of the whale or the breadth of the compass. Remember, I really don’t know what I’m talking about. I see Country music as something else entirely. To me, it is life itself. All the sorrow, all the joy, all the simplicity, all the complexity, all the religion, everything—it’s all there. Pain and Happiness encompass everything in one long sine curve with no beginning and no end, and, thank God, there’s a Country song to match every point along the way. I don’t know. Maybe that’s trying to make too much out of it. I listen to it and I enjoy it. Honestly, nothing else really matters. I don’t care what you’re listening to as long as you’re happy. Knock yourself out with your rave, rap, and metal. Have a ball. As for me, I’ll be “down at Ernie’s ice house, liftin’ longnecks to that good old Country sound.”

OXFAM FAST

All students are asked to fast to acknowledge world hunger.
Monday, November 16

A symbolic rice and beans dinner will be served for all participants in the Commons at 6:30 p.m. Meals will not be served at Patterson Court houses.