4 THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1993

Library adopts new technology and automates check-out system

By Jeff Oller

Have you seen what is going on in the E. H. Little Library? Hint: The next time you go to the library, don’t forget your CAT card. You’ll need it to check out books.

Under the direction of Kelly Wood, Assistant Head of Public Services, Circulation and Interlibrary Loan, and Jean Coates, Circulation Manager, and the work of about 30 people, the library has completed the automated research and checking system. This process started seventeen years ago when computers were first used as catalogs. The barcoding of all 396,000 books in the library and the eventual distribution of barcoded stickers to be affixed to the back of every student’s CAT card will totally modernize the campus library.

The barcodes and the CHAL computer system have been designed to eliminate the cumbersome and time-wasting card catalogs and the necessity for the check-out desk to keep due date cards in the back of every book. With a few keystrokes, you can now find out whether or not a book you want is checked out, and if so, when it will be due back. The computer will say “charge” and another key punch will give you the due date. The computer will also tell whether a book is on reserve.

When you want to check a book out, simply bring it to the check-out desk and it will be scanned into the computer. You will receive a due date card. The computer will keep track of due dates and will assess a 25 cents a day overdue fine for regular books and a 25 cents an hour fine for reserve books.

The E.H. Little Library employs six reference librarians and 70 students throughout the school year. The staff includes Director Leland Park and Archivist Chalmers Davidson. There will also be a night supervisor from Sunday to Thursday who will be hired within the next few weeks.

General response has been good with most students saying that they think it is a fine idea that should help speed things up behind the desk. According to Junior Will Lazenby, “The system sounds good.”

Photo courtesy of College Relations
Junior Brian Bentley takes a lesson in CHAL trivia.

Sophomores Miller Cary and Marianna Whitehurst agreed that while it is a bother to remember your CAT card every time, the new system should help the workers behind the desk. “We’ll have to see if this system helps the students,” said Cary.

Junior Carolyn Meadows commented, “At first I thought that they didn’t trust us anymore because we have to give them our ID card, but then I thought about it and realized that they were just making things easier.”

So drop by, get your CAT card barcoded, use CHAL, check out a book and experience the new automated research and checking system at the E.H. Little Library.

College hires alum Rob Spach to serve as campus chaplain

By Letitia Campbell

Ten years ago, as Rob Spach began his senior year at Davidson, he would never have predicted that he would be back as the campus chaplain. Involved in Amnesty International, the Davidson Christian Fellowship, several drama productions, the Y-Student Service Corps, and PAX, an eating house, he graduated with Honors in Religion and Literature (a Center major) writing his senior thesis on Frederick Buechner. “I wanted to be a professor of Religion and Literature,” says Rob. “I had no sense of calling to the ministry at the time.”

After graduation, Rob returned to Brazil, where he had spent the first fourteen years of his life. He worked with children in the Amazon River Basin, an area which was, with...its gold rush and boomtowns, not unlike the American Old West. After a year in Brazil, Rob headed to the University of Virginia for graduate school in Literature and Religious Studies. The son of Presbyterian missionaries, Rob worshipped in many types of congregations during his educational career: American Baptist, African-American Baptist, Episcopal, Charismatic Independent, Mennonite, and Presbyterian. After receiving a master's degree from UVa, Rob Spach in 1982 taught English in Portugal, where he met his wife. In 1990 he entered Princeton Theological Seminary with the intention of becoming ordained. "It was a call to campus ministry from the beginning,” says Rob. “I never really felt called to the parish.” In May Rob graduated from Princeton with a concentration in church history, and is excited to be back at his alma mater. “This position is appealing because I’m still interested in academia, research, and the life of the mind, but I’m also interested in the life of the spirit. I think it’s rich when the two can be brought together.” One way Rob plans to help students integrate their spiritual and intellectual lives is by sponsoring a new program called En Route, which will meet on Thursdays from 2:00 to 2:30 p.m. in Phi Hall. The group will discuss and meditate on music, art, poetry, and spiritual writings of many traditions. Some of the topics Rob hopes to explore are the music of Van Morrison, Daniel Lanois, and Tracy Chapman, Japanese art, the writings of the Christian mystics, and the Zen tradition. “It’s really different to be back!” says Rob. “Davidson has houses, and Baker wasn’t built. I’ve changed a lot, too.” Rob has returned with energy and a sense of purpose. “I want to help members of the college community reflect on the spiritual dimensions of their lives and deepen their intimacy with God.” Rob will be ordained Sunday, September 19 at the 11:00 a.m. service at DCPC.

VOLUNTEER WITH TIME TO READ

Time To Read, a reading improvement program sponsored nationally by Time Warner Inc., provides literacy training for adults and adolescents in Charlotte. In conjunction with Cities In Schools and Cablevision, Davidson College students tutor children in four Charlotte-Mecklenburg Middle or Junior-High Schools. Time To Read boosts reading skills through magazine readings, activity sheets, and music videos. Tutors receive a 1-year subscription to Time Magazine and either People or Sports Illustrated. Learners receive Time Magazine and Sports Illustrated for Kids. Time To Read emphasizes the relationship formed between tutor and learner. Each Davidson Tutor will be matched with a student. Tutor and student meet weekly at the school site for one hour. Including transportation time, a Davidson Tutor must be able to commit 2 hours each week during the academic year. Transportation is not necessary for participation. Time To Read requires volunteer training. Each volunteer must attend one Monday and one Wednesday night session. If you have been a Time To Read Tutor, you must attend a Wednesday night session only.

Training Dates:
Monday, Sept. 13 / Wednesday, Sept. 15
Monday, Sept. 27 / Wednesday, Sept. 29

All Training Sessions will be in Chambers 125 from 7-9 p.m.

RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS

GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD.

Your Uncle Sam. Every year Army ROTC awards scholarships to hundreds of talented students. If you qualify, these merit-based scholarships can help you pay tuition and educational fees. They even pay a flat rate for textbooks and supplies. You can also receive an allowance of up to $1000 each school year the scholarship is in effect. Find out today if you qualify.

For more information contact Major Hawkins at 892-2165.