7 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1993

The Davidsonian

HARRISON ROBERTS - Editor in Chief
LEIGH RAWDON - Managing Editor
MANDY CURTIS - News Editor
COURT McBRYDE - Assistant News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL - Sports Editor
WILL COBB - Assistant Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

WELLS BLACK - Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS - Business Manager
ERIC SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

Quit labeling us

In the past year, attempts to place a catch-phrase name onto our generation have flourished. “The MTV Generation,” the “Lost Generation,” and “Generation X” have all been touted as phrases which identify and define a generation that has consistently eluded definitive labeling. The attempts fail because they rest on the faulty assumption that previous generations have been successfully labelled. “Baby-boomers” and the lost generation of the early 20th century have become household terms. Accuracy, however, does not necessarily follow popularity.

The media has all but transformed the sixties into a sort of flower-toting, chemically enhanced free-love-a-thon whose participants were as united by their common love for humanity as their spirit of activism in fighting the Vietnam war and racial and gender barriers. In an almost arrogant manner, the Baby-boomers have now sought to define us as lazy and apathetic in contrast to their activist past. “The Lost Generation” and “Generation X” both imply that our generation is one without ideals, beliefs, or even care for the events unfolding around us in the world. The MTV reference cynically indicates a belief that we are defined by our common appreciation for Michael Jackson’s “Thriller” video. Any definition, however, that describes us as a group uncertain of our purpose and our direction is misguided. To be uncertain is a part of being a young adult--not part of a generation.

Perhaps the most definitive characteristic of our generation is that no set of events have yet united us. Baby-boomers went to bed worried about the Communist threat and watched Neil Armstrong set foot on the moon. "Twentysomethings" biggest battle with the Communists came in the 1980 Winter Olympics' hockey semi-finals, and the most important outer-space event was an explosion over Florida. Memorable, but not defining, moments. The only common bond the “twentysomethings” share may be having grown up watching the same television shows--beginning with Beaver Cleaver and the Brady Bunch and ending with Bart Simpson and Beavis and Butthead. At times it seems we have entered a world of fantasy and sarcasm on the border of tastelessness. But similar tastes in TV shows do not a generation make.

So we suggest that we not be judged until there is something to judge. Before any names are called or stereotypes established, let us see our Martin Luther Kings and Jane Fondas, our Vietnams and racial battles, and our Woodstocks and bellbottoms. Maybe then, we will fit nicely into a comfortably constricting category. Maybe not.

LETTERS

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year.

On drunk driving

To the editors:

George Kruse. My Uncle George. Uncle George loved life as much as anyone I have ever known. He married my Dad's sister Barb about fourteen months ago. They had dated in college, but had gone their separate ways. By a chance of luck or an act of God, they had met again many years later. They married. They were beginning to plan a family.

Men's lacrosse was Uncle George's passion. He was an All-American in college. Recently, he had officiated some of the biggest games in Division I. He travelled hundreds of miles to see the Final Four. Uncle George was one of those people who would ask how I was doing...and care about the answer. He was truly young in spirit. He could swap stories of college escapades with me, even though he had graduated many years ago. Uncle George found me a job last summer just because he wanted to help. Uncle George was killed in an automobile accident on September 11, 1993. He was wearing his seatbelt, but seatbelts don't perform miracles when you are hit head-on by a drunk driver. That driver was nineteen years old and out for a good time. I imagine he wasn't much different than a lot of students. I know that a vast majority of students will drink. But, please, walk to the Court; walk to Backstreet; or have a designated driver take you to and from the Korner Pub or Charlotte. I know that everyone has heard the drinking and driving lecture a thousand times. Unfortunately, the driver that night had not heard it enough. Now he faces vehicular homicide charges. My family faces life without Uncle George. 

Regretfully, 
Brian Francis '96

Davidsonian soccer coverage is weak

Dear soccer fans,

You are doing a stellar job of supporting the Women's team; the stands were packed for the first three home matches. Understandably you couldn't make the next three games. Only a dedicated few trekked to Catawba to witness an emotional overtime tie. So, you missed Jen Beebe's upper-90 goal and you were not there when Claudia Lombard stumbled upon a hat trick deep in Elon territory. (You even missed Ellen Sprinkle, sans ponytail, in a shirt and tie.) Perhaps you planned to peruse an article about the Cats’ 2-0-1 road record in the last issue of The Davidsonian. Too bad. Not a peep, not a snippet, not even a measly Cat Nip concerning the upset victory over perennial power UNC-Greensboro. Susan Taylor's break-away breath-taking-do-or-die barely-in-there game-winning goal... Pardon me, I digress. This is the editorial section, not the sports section. The south's foremost college weekly is weak all right-- weak in sports coverage. Giggy Maxwell, how about a new promotion: instead of Unfinished Business hype the recent coverage of women's soccer as Undone Business. "Ladies and gentlemen, sports information will be kicking an adidas soccer ball into the stands. Catch the ball, lucky fan, and you win...the assignment of writing an article about today's game." Fans, too bad you could not read about last week's exciting three hundred minutes of soccer. Just in case the women's next home games are not mentioned on a later page of this edition, the team plays Radford on the 28th and then Liberty the following Saturday. Both matches are at 4:00 p.m. Come out and support Davidson women's soccer, and don't forget your pencil and paper. You could be the next Davidsonian sports reporter.

Go Cats,
Lisa A. Lyons '95

Committee invites you to sleep outside

To the editors:

Are you comfortable? The safest wager would be that you are. If you aren’t bumming in a contoured chair or a convenient bed whose origin you’ve probably never contemplated, I’d bet you’re at least inside where the temperature has been directed to within 10 degrees of what you consider ideal. Even if you’ve labored to disprove me by reading outdoors, Davidson’s campus is far from the world’s most discomforting locale. So I think rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College. I’ve caught you—you’re comfortable. I know. “Any more great revelations?” you’re asking. Well no. Odds are, though, that if Davidson students are chatting about a week of intense suffering, they’ve had four reviews and a major paper. If they’re “starving,” they skipped breakfast. If they’re “tired,” they were up until three-ish cursing procrastinatory tendencies. If they’re “sick,” they’ve been court-martialed—Patterson Court-martialed, that is. I don’t mean to belittle your problems, because I know very real concerns plague students here. I do, however, intend to emphasize our blessings. Many of us are so accustomed to ease that we’ve lost focus on its source. The High-tech Age boils down to spoiling and discontent and plateaus called paradigms. Yet comforts aren’t omnipresent. Our world still houses a majority who have internalized a true understanding of 

See Inverse on page 10