THE DAVIDPHONIAN!

NEWS!

MONDAY, APRIL 26, 1993

President Smith Says Campus Problems are Petty

By Jane Activist

At Friday’s Trustee meeting, SGA President Alden Smith made his address to the student body as is tradition for the
student body president. But instead of his regular diversity and inclusiveness talk, Smith announced a new agenda.

“I will no longer allow myself to be suckered by you, the trustees, to push for more diversity and tolerance
on campus. So don’t even think about using me for your politically correct purposes!” said Smith at the Plenary session.

Sources say that Smith probably did not intend to burst into hysterics; he actually lost control and spontaneously began his
disparagement. For once, Alden Smith lost his cool.

But the news extends past Smith’s anger. Supposedly since he was elected vice president of the SGA in the spring
of 1992, Smith has been in cahoots with other student leaders in an underground ring which plans to create a
homogeneous environment, an ethnic cleansing of sorts.

The group has been lobbying support under the acronym: “Calling Homophobes Against Little” people. Leaders use their propaganda in common
campus locations in efforts to brainwash students to follow their cause. It is possible there are those in the administration
uniting with the group by printing signs with subliminal messages and hanging them from conspicuous locations on frequented buildings. Some
deny this:

“As secretary of the organization, I will step out of my submissive role to say that no old, white, conservative
men are to blame. Want some coffee?” says Sara Carlson who hides under the disguise of an assertive feminist from
California.

“We're coming out of the closet. We are tired and true homophobes, racists, evangelical Bible beaters and CHAL will no
longer take the quiet or passive role to persuade fellow students to become apathetic and reluctant to change,” Smith follows
with a call for Davidson students to drink, to go to football games, to wear sexist T-shirts, to drink more,
to go to all Patterson Court parties, to hook up, and to pass out. He then says to play Nintendo
and watch TV until your hangover is gone so you can do it all again on Saturday night.

He says all the forums, student-faculty roundtables, and meetings were only ways to get free food and to get elected.
All Smith really cares about is the alcohol policy.

Last spring, Smith dropped out of KA to join SAE so he could be a part of all of their
activities. He said KA just didn’t represent what he represented. Smith has also been known to send letters to the
editors of this publication under the pseudonym, Phil Atchison. But the group will now go public since Smith’s outburst at
the Trustee meeting. They will no longer depend on subtle messages on the library’s CHAL system which lures even the
most unsuspecting VAXers. “I never thought I’d do it but something drew me to it,” says freshman Bill Gullan who
VAXed and has since been inducted to the CHAL network. Now he spreads the conservative propaganda through last-minute columns in
this newspaper.

Some are in an uproar about this. Seniors Laura Cunningham and Catherine Milligan have been trying to join the CHAL
passivists ever since Smith started it. But to no avail. The group does not allow women members. “Girls are for
posters and parties,” says one member via VAX.

What changes can you expect to see next fall? “Messages will no longer be as subtle as T-shirts and signs
and VAX machines,” says Smith. CHAL plans to make the current COMA (Council on Minority Affairs), the Chauvinists Organizing Men’s
Affairs. They hope to issue Confederate flags out at orientation to hang in every room, to eliminate FLAG, the Women’s
Issues Committee, the BSC and any other non-male, heterosexual WASP groups, as well as to install a “good ol’ boy”
dress code and require Levi’s and Duckheads with oxford shirts. They hope that eventually the most diversity you'll see at
Davidson is that some people wear white oxfords and some people wear blue.

The Terry Connection: How the Studs on This Campus Keep Up With It!

They're all related and they run a house of prostitution out of Dean's house.

They're all related and they run a house of prostitution out of Dean's house.

They're all related and they run a house of prostitution out of Dean's house.

They're all related and they run a house of prostitution out of Dean's house.

Doesn't this girl look like Rachel Newcomb!?

They're all related and they run a house of prostitution out of Dean's house.

They're all related and they run a house of prostitution out of Dean's house.

They're all related and they run a house of prostitution out of Dean's house.

They're all related and they run a house of prostitution out of Dean's house.

They're all related and they run a house of prostitution out of Dean's house.

They're all related and they run a house of prostitution out of Dean's house.

Bring this by Phi Delt for:

Phi Delta Theta
One Free Bid
"Quantity before quality!"

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

Brotherhood With An Attitude!

"Hey, baby, I'm an SAE. Come on over to our tree (see page 1)! We always treat women good! And
I know you're just the type of lay, er, I mean, woman, the guys are looking for. Besides, I luuuv
you."
-John "Mr. Smooth" Brownlee never said anything like this.
