su THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1993. 

WIRE Archives Donated To Brandeis

WALTHAM, Mass. (CPS) - The archives of the late Andrei Sakharov, the man the 1975 Nobel Peace Prize committee called the “conscience of mankind,” will be donated to Brandeis University, officials said. The archives, which will be housed both at Brandeis and in Moscow, were donated by Elena Bonner, his widow. The archives include his scientific research, human rights work, and his personal papers.

“These archives are a living treasure from one of the greatest heroes of the 20th century, a man whose life lifted the spirit of the world and whose vision and determination literally changed the course of history,” said Brandeis President Samuel Thier.

Sakharov, who was the Soviet Union’s top nuclear scientist, was the father of the Soviet hydrogen bomb. He waged a 30-year battle against the Soviet system and its human rights violations. The Sakharov Archives contain documents that were carried out of the former Soviet Union between 1978 and 1984, including the original manuscript of his memoirs, his diaries, letters, and personal and family documents.

Practice Zen For Your Tests

INDIANA, Pa. (CPS) - Repeat this phrase several times: “Grades do not matter,” reports J.J. Gibbs, a professor of criminology at Indiana University of Pennsylvania. Gibbs, author of “Dancing with Your Books: The Zen Way of Studying,” suggests that students practice Zen and find "the zone" to learn how to score high grades. Zen emphasizes the task at hand, Gibbs writes, and is centered in the present moment. Using this tool can remove “impediments” to study, and when students fully concentrate on their work, they will discover satisfaction with study.

He offers these tips to get in the Zen mode:
- Clear your mind through meditation and deep breathing.
- Let go of other tasks and make a commitment to study for a set amount of time.
- Settle into studying and absorb the material.
- Dismiss thoughts that are straying from the task.
- Study as if it’s the only reason you were put on this earth.

“To live fully you have to pay full attention to what you’re doing,” he said.

Student has no home to return to

GAINESVILLE, Fla. (CPS) - Unlike most college students, Milica Stojinic won’t be going home for the holidays this year. Her home no longer exists. Stojinic said the war in Bosnia had destroyed her hometown of Sarajevo and had made refugees of her family.

Speaking before an honors student forum recently at the University of Florida, Stojinic said the war had nearly destroyed her generation of Slavs, separating them from their families and tearing apart their homeland.

“It seemed like the war was happening somewhere else,” she said. "When they told me, my eyes filled up with tears. I thought soldiers fought just outside their house."

But troops destroyed the phone lines to Stojinic’s neighborhood a week later, cutting her off from her family. Stojinic later learned her mother and grandfather escaped Sarajevo and settled in the safer city of Belgrade before shelling destroyed their old apartment. But her father may have not been as lucky.

“I haven’t heard from him in a year and a half,” she said. “I have no idea where he is, or if he’s alive.”

Stojinic said she missed her home city every day and would like to go back to help the refugees, but concedes the war has destroyed her country.

Jesse Jackson Talks to Youth

INDIANA, Pa. (CPS) - “Young America, you have the capacity, you have the will. Don’t let this moment pass. Keep this moment alive,” said the Rev. Jesse Jackson, telling the youth of America that they have to “move forward to hope, not backward by fear.”

The nationally known orator and civil rights activist was speaking at Indiana University of Pennsylvania, addressing issues of concern for today’s youth. Students, Jackson said, are the source of change in America, so much more so than the courts, the president, and other elected officials. There is much that the twentysomething generation has to accomplish, Jackson said, but they must overcome obstacles first in order to fight for change. If the youth are scared of guns and murder, they don’t have the energy to fight for health care, Jackson said.

The young of this country have two sets of problems facing them, said Jackson. The first quagmire is the erosion of the tax base and the loss of jobs. The second problem involves the “moral degeneracy” that youth have come to live with.

What can we do now? The youth must take the forefront. When the youth of America find the impetus and courage to change, the rest of the world will follow, said Jackson.

Generation X

RHINEBECK, NY (CPS) - The Trends Institute finds that the 47 million Americans between 18 and 29 defy the molds advertisers assume. Instead of savvy and free-spirited, this group is "insecure", "conforming", and jealous of baby-boomers. Advertisers study the group because they control $125 billion in disposable income.

Community Day goes Into the Streets

By Mary Clare Jalonick

As Davidson students ventured downtown last Friday afternoon with their parents, they were met with a Halloween parade.of several hundred of the town’s children. In coordination for the first time ever with Davidson’s Reach Out program, Davidson Parks and Recreation sponsored the event. The carnival was also a part of Reach Out’s “Into the Streets” week. Friday was “Community Day.” For the carnival, the children dressed up in their Halloween costumes and passed by the doors of several of the town’s shops. There, local merchants gave them candy and wished them a happy Halloween. Carol Reid, of Allen Mortgage, enjoyed the event. “This is a lot of fun. It’s just another example of the college holding the town together.” From the stores, the children ventured on to the field where Davidson students manned different activity booths. The booths included cookie decorating, ring toss, fortune telling, and hot apple cider. The students seemed to feel that the carnival was for a good cause. “This is a good opportunity for Davidson students to integrate with the community. Hopefully, this will help to make us more unified,” said Frances Bailey, a sophomore who was working at the event. The townspeople were enjoying themselves also. Some people even journeyed a little to be there. Julie Parton, a mother from Huntersville, comes up every year for the carnival. “This is wonderful for the little kids. They have done an excellent job.”

Parents invade campus for Parents' Weekend

By Jenny Schroeter

Parents came from across the country for the annual parents' weekend. The weekend has been a tradition at Davidson College for approximately twenty-five years. Originally, around 850 parents were expected to attend. This estimation was surpassed with about a total of 1,000 parents, the largest number of parents ever to attend the weekend. Events for parents and their students began Friday and continued until Sunday afternoon. Many of the activities for Friday had an academic focus. Parents were invited to visit classes with their son or daughter. They were also able to meet with members of the faculty during the day. Sports events as well as the production of Equus were some available options for entertainment. One of the most popular events of the weekend was the open house at the Visual Arts Center on Saturday afternoon. Parents were able to see the new building and heard Dr. Herb Jackson speak. Many home sporting events continued on Saturday. Sunday was the close of the weekend. Worship services were available for those who were interested. Equus was performed one final time for those who did not get a chance to see it during the rest of the weekend. A soccer game was held at Richardson Field. Altogether, parents' weekend was successful. Parents were able to get a true sense of Davidson while spending time with their sons and daughters. Dean Terry said parents' weekend “enables parents to visit their sons and daughters and gain a new appreciation for Davidson.”

Rosenbach speaks on strife in Bulgaria

By Jay Jennings

Most people do not think of going to Bulgaria on their summer vacation, but at least one, Eric Rosenbach, did last summer. He got a grant from the Dean Rusk Program to study how the economic and political reforms were progressing since their conception in 1989. Eric spoke about his studies on behalf of the Dean Rusk program on Thursday. After spending the spring semester in Spain and traveling in Western Europe for one month, Eric arrived in Bulgaria. Once he stepped off the train, he saw a beleaguered country. He witnessed a protest on his first day against the political situation. Hunger strikes and tent cities are commonplace in Bulgaria because of the unstable situation. Although the Communists have lost some power since 1990, they still are very much involved in the society. The legacy of the Bulgarian dictators is still great, according to Rosenbach. The economy of Bulgaria has some instances of capitalism, but it has not helped the slow economy improve to a great extent. Eric dealt with the black market wherever he went. This is probably the closest thing to capitalism that there is in Bulgaria. Eric saw the environmental problems that have not been dealt with in the Valley of the Roses. There are nuclear and chemical waste dumps that are literally killing the environment, but the government does not have the capital to correct the problem. The government could correct some of its problems, but without the capital to do it, the country will remain in its place as one of the poorest countries of Europe. The political and economic situation of the country did not hinder Eric from having a great time there. He was able to travel around for relatively little money because of the economic situation. So he has many stories to tell about the people he met in Bulgaria.

Listeners & Viewers of Rush Limbaugh please call Wendy Lee at -6830