SPORTS 14 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1993

By Will Cobb

While Davidson College is best known for the doctors, lawyers, and businessmen it has produced, the school has also fielded
student-athletes that have gone on to play their respective sports on the professional level. There are currently eight athletes that
proudly represent Davidson in the professional sports world. Of the eight players, there are five in baseball, two in basketball,
and one in soccer. The baseball players can be found spread out on different levels of the farm system, with
one major leaguer. The basketball standouts play in other countries, while the lone soccer player competes as a rookie in
the professional indoor league.

BASEBALL
* Robert Eenhorn (’90) plays for the AA Albany Yankees. He was drafted by the New York Yankees in the
second round of the 1990 amateur draft after playing one season for Davidson. After completing his first year in AA
in the Eastern League at shortstop, Eenhorn put up excellent numbers and is being considered for a promotion to AAA
Columbus next fall. He was named to the Eastern League All-Star team and was voted the best defensive infielder. To
add to his resume, Eenhorn was selected as one of 20 players invited to the organization’s winter instructional league.
1993 stats: .280 Avg 82 G 314 AB 48 R 88 Hits 24 Dbl 3 Trpl 6 HR 46 RBI
3 SB

* Alan Lewis (’88) spent his 1992 season with the AA El Paso Diablos of the Milwaukee Brewers. The 27-year-old
Lewis played 3rd base and DH for the Diablos in the Texas League. Unfortunately, he was released at the end
of the season but will most likely be picked up by another organization in the spring. Interestingly, Lewis was married
this past year at the ballpark in a home plate ceremony to a secretary he met while in the L.A.
Dodger organization.
1993 stats: .258 Avg 113 G 380 AB 98 Hits 22 Dbl 4 HR 48 RBI

* Billy Masse (’88) had an outstanding 1992 season for the AAA Columbus Clippers of the Yankee organization. Playing in
the tough International League, featuring new arrival Charlotte, Masse finished the year with the second-best batting average in the league.
Playing in the outfield, Masse had his best year in the pros. He was unanimously selected as an International League
All-Star. Surprisingly, Masse was not promoted to “the Big Show” last fall, and as a result, he has given the
impression he may decide to compete in Japan come spring.
1993 stats: .316 Avg 117 G 402 AB 127 Hits 81 R 35 Dbl 3 Trpl 19 HR 91 RBI
17-21 SB

* Andy Paul (’93) made a big impression in his first year with the Brewers. After starting in the Instructional
Arizona League with the Chandler Brewers, Paul was quickly promoted to A Beloit in the Midwest League. The right-handed pitcher
signed with Milwaukee as a free agent following his junior season at Davidson and was allowed to graduate before competing.
At Beloit, Paul posted a career-best 2.96 ERA. Through the season, he had three scoreless streaks of 8.67, 10, and
13 innings, and racked up 12 strikeouts in a start versus Ft. Wayne in August. The Brewers were impressed enough
to select Paul as one of 3 players to compete in the Australian Winter League. The organization has set him
up with housing, food, a car, and $1,500 a month in spending money. If his numbers stay low, Davidson should
see Paul at AA Stockton in the California League in 1994.
1993 Stats: W-L 1-3 2.96 ERA 8 G 54.6 INN 53 Hits 22 R 18 ER 30 BB 52 K

* Dan Simonds (’88) serves as the only current major-leaguer from Davidson. After progressing through the minor leagues steadily, Simonds
has earned a spot as the bullpen

See Pros on page 16

Football legend Howell goes out with a bang

By Neil Marks

A celebrated Davidson football career came to a close last Saturday as senior quarterback Richard Howell led the Wildcats to
a 55-14 trouncing of Bridgewater on Richardson Field. Determined to go out with a bang, Howell scored a school record
26 points off of four touchdown runs and a two-point conversion. He also set seasonal marks with 18 touchdowns and
110 total points while finishing with 5,256 career yards, making him Davidson’s all-time offensive leader.

At one point Howell wasn’t even considering playing for Davidson; he had decided to play baseball for Wake Forest. “I
had a couple of offers from other schools but I was set on Wake Forest. I wasn’t even going to
look here but a friend of mine was coming down and convinced me to look at it,” said Howell. “The
thing that impressed methe most was that the coaches seemed to really care about what I wanted—not like at the
other places I looked. The atmosphere and friendliness of the entire campus helped me decide, also,” he explained. Howell became
an immediate asset to the team, starting five games as a freshman; he has been the team’s regular starter ever
since. When asked the reasons for such a remarkable career, Howell was quick to spread the credit. “My linemen, who
don’t get the credit they deserve, did a good job blocking for me all year, and the defense always gave
us great field position,” he explained.

Howell is excited about the newfound enthusiasm the campus has shown for the team and Davidson football in general. “When
I first got here I was disappointed in the lack of support for athletics—there really wasn’t any—but the attitude on
campus and in the community is improving. It was great this year to have people come out to pep rallies
and support us,” he said.

Not only a phenomenal athlete, Howell is involved in other campus activities such as the BSC and the pre-med society.
The most rewarding to him, however, is the big-buddy program with the local elementary school. “Even though I’m not a
superstar like Charlie Ward, the kids look up to me since I’m an athlete. Some of them don’t do that
well in school but I’ve seen them improve. To be able to touch their lives like that is a very
rewarding experience,” he said.

Howell believes that football is more than just a game and is an important character builder. “It makes you believe
in yourself. It creates a huge bond with the team since you push each other so hard. It teaches you
that you have to work hard in your life because nothing is going to come easy,” Howell explained.

Wake Forest’s loss was definitely Davidson’s gain, and Howell himself couldn’t have been happier with the outcome. “I’ve made the
best friends I’ll ever have. It’s been an incredible four years—I have no regrets.” The senior from Bladenboro, North Carolina
will be missed as the Cats attempt to better this year's 6-4 mark. Howell now plans to take a year
off to explore the possibilities of playing professionally and if not, go to graduate or med school.

Chess finds college's champions
By Staff Writers

On November 13, the chess club sponsored the First Annual Davidson College Chess Championship, and John Ballard came away as
the 1993 Davidson College Chess Champion. Eight competitors participated in the four-round event. Ballard, a former U.S. Junior Champion, and
Doitch Kraser, the 1993 North Carolina Class D Champion, were the top two seeds in the event. The third round
provided the deciding game of the tournament as Ballard defeated Kraser in a hard-fought match. While Ballard finished with an
undefeated 4-0 record, Kraser and freshman Stephen Eckman tied for second with identical 3-1 marks. However, Kraser received the second
place plaque on tiebreaks due to his first-round victory over Eckman. Rounding out the top four was senior Stephen Hill.
Hill, who finished the tournament at 2-2, played impressively, losing only to Ballard and Kraser.

The top four finishers of Ballard, Kraser, Eckman, and Hill will represent Davidson College at the Pan American Intercollegiate Chess
Championships in Deland, Florida this December. Ballard believes that Davidson has a very strong team that should be competitive. The
Pan American is a prestigious tournament which has been in existence for almost fifty years and is the pinnacle of
intercollegiate chess.

Also competing in the Davidson Championship were Stephen Feeley, and freshmen Thomas Wang, Daniel Ruggiero, and Bill Slusser. Feeley placed
fifth overall and received the top faculty plaque since no faculty members competed in the event. According to Ballard, the
tournament was a success. Since the club is still in its first semester of existence, eight competitors was a fine
turnout. Half of the competitors were freshmen, which speaks well for the future of Davidson chess. The club has also
set up a chess ladder to rank Davidson chess players. Anyone who would like to be included in the chess
ladder needs only to send the results of games played to John Ballard at x6242. Regular chess club meetings are
every Thursday night at 9:30.

CURRENT CHESS CLUB LADDER RANKING
1. John Ballard 1547
2. Doitch Kraser 1431
3. Stephen Eckman 1429
4. Stephen Hill 1416
4. Corey Bean 1416
4. Clay Lenhart 1416
7. Sam Jones 1374
8. Michelle VanderVieren 1370
9. Daniel Ruggiero 1353
10. Bill Slusser 1347
11. Thomas Wang 1347
12. Stephen Feeley 1346
