6 : THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1993

The week in Washington | Lines drawn on health care issue

By Brett Marston

Health care reform is on the horizon. Clinton delivered his health care reform proposal to a joint session of Congress
Wednesday night, September 22, and the Republicans on Capitol Hill had already drawn their battle lines—not only for the fight
with Clinton, but over disagreements in their own party. The fact that the Republican party is divided on the issue
of health care leads many analysts to believe that some compromise on the issue is imminent, and that Congress will
take some final action within a year.

“We think a coalition will come together of moderate Republicans, liberal Democrats and moderate Democrats that will pass the bill,”
said Ira Magaziner in the Congressional Quarterly. Magaziner is Clinton’s chief White House adviser for health policy.

Clinton said nothing new in his speech Wednesday night. Documents detailing his health plan surfaced in Washington two weeks ago.
Here are the major points of his plan:

Universal coverage: By 1997, Clinton wants every U.S. citizen, permanent resident, or long-term non-resident covered by health insurance, which must
meet or exceed the standards of a basic benefits package.

“Health alliances”: The new plan would bond together individuals and most all companies into huge buying pools which would bargain
with insurance companies and keep their prices down.

Mandates: Employers would be required to pay for at least 80% of the average cost of their employees’ insurance package.

Subsidies: The federal government would help small businesses which cannot afford to pay for their workers’ policies.

Regulation: A new, presidentially appointed National Health Board would limit the amount insurance companies can increase their premiums.

Taxes: Aside from cuts in Medicare and Medicaid, Clinton would impose taxes on tobacco to help pay for his plan.

The Republican party has drafted two separate health care reform plans of their own. One, which most House Republicans endorse,
would make few changes to the present health care system. The other, signed by 23 of 44 Senate Republicans, coincides
with Clinton’s plan in many points, but differs on a few major issues.

The House Republican plan does not seek universal coverage and would not force businesses to provide insurance policies for their
workers. It would place some minor restrictions on insurance companies, especially on their

The Dean Rusk Program

Tensions rise in Sudan

By Andy Barwig

The fact is that Sudan gains about as much international attention as “Wing Wednesday” does at the Union Outpost. Occasionally
mentioned somewhere in between a famine and a civil war, Sudan’s internal problems are for the most part unknown.

The images of starving children in Ethiopia about a decade ago galvanized American support with a massive aid project to
the poor African nation. The situation in Sudan is very similar to what happened in Ethiopia except for the problem
that aid to Sudan does not reach the people that need it the most. Sudan’s official support of Saddam Hussein
during the Gulf Crisis has served only to further isolate the sub-Saharan African nation as a massive famine looms on
the horizon.

Since a military regime seized power in 1985, the domestic situation in Sudan has rapidly deteriorated. Civil war in southern
Sudan has been a major obstacle to stability and development in the entire region. The root of the conflict lies
within Sudan’s distinctive social composition. The general division in Sudan is between the Muslim Arabs in the North and the
African Christians in the South.

Since the military dictatorship took power it has begun a campaign to unite Sudan under Islamic law. This policy has
been quite unpopular to say the least. Imagine trying to unite Delaware with Utah to understand what the government of
Sudan has embarked on.

Recent reports have linked Sudan with the growing accounts of terrorism around the world. It is unfortunate that Sudan has
become one of the renegade nations because the people of Sudan are truly paying the price as Sudan’s standard of
living and its human rights record are among the very worst in the world. It was rumored that during the
Gulf crisis, Iraq had moved Scud missiles into Sudan to possibly be used against forces opposed to Saddam Hussein.

The problems in Sudan have only served to destabilize the region further. Sudan has been at the brink of war
with several countries including Ethiopia and Chad for their support of the rebels in Sudan. The future of Sudan is
ominous. Tensions in Sudan could very well evolve into the next fiasco in U.S. foreign policy.ability to refuse coverage to
high-risk individuals or businesses. Cuts in Medicare subsidies for wealthy individuals and a later federal retirement age would finance this
proposal. The Senate GOP plan, proposed by Sen. John Chafee from Rhode Island, would make changes nearly as sweeping as
the Clinton plan. Chafee’s opponents in his party have dubbed his proposal “Hillary II.” Chafee’s plan, like Clinton’s, has universal
coverage as a main goal, but sets the year 2000 as a target date. Clinton sees this common goal as
highly significant. “[This] is a magic moment,” he said on Wednesday, “and we must seize it.” Clinton and Chafee are
at odds on several points, however. Under Chafee’s plan, the health alliances would be smaller, and no one would be
required to join them. As one might expect, Chafee also balks at employer mandates, government regulation, and new taxes. If
Clinton and Chafee can iron out their differences, which seems likely under the intense public pressure on Washington to act
on this issue, this "Big Deal" may indeed become reality.

Sources: The Congressional Quarterly, The Wall Street Journal, Time, and The Charlotte Observer.

R.O.T.C. BLOOD DRIVE
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29
10:00 a.m.-3:30 p.m.
downstairs in the Union

ELSEWHERE

September 6, for the week ending Sunday,

NOTES

Taking steps past Gephardt
“But labor, scarred by plant closings and declining memberships, is leaning hard on all of its old friends and allies
for help. One of those old friends, Rep. Richard Gephardt, the House majority leader, has now declared that he will
vote against [NAFTA]. Protectionism can’t create jobs, however, and this country needs a million additional jobs every year merely to
keep up with its growing population. Secretary Robert Reich correctly described NAFTA as only another step, like all the others
that this country has taken over the past generation, to build a trade regime that strengthens American economic growth.”
-from the September 25, Washington Post editorial entitled “Labor and NAFTA”

Inside the Arab-Israeli tent
“The truth is that Arafat’s separate peace does weaken Syrian leader Assad’s bargaining position. Assad has reason to fear that
he will be offered less favorable terms for peace now that the PLO has recognized Israel and other Arab states
have accepted Arafat’s deal with Rabin. He has also glimpsed the possibility of a new regional configuration, one in which
Palestinians, Israelis and Jordanians could form a cooperative triangle in the manner of the Benelux countries. Assad, however, will not
allow himself to be treated like a weak supplicant. He will use his domination of Lebanon, his control of Palestinian
hardliners and his tactical alliance with Iran to undo the work of the peacemakers unless they bring him inside their
tent.”
-from the Boston Globe editorial “The Road to Damascus” on September 22

Guns for health care: TWA
“The cost of any radical new health program will be the determining factor in whether it succeeds or fails. The
American people will not go for any additional broad taxes to fund anything. The money for a new health care
program has to be obtained by selective pickpocketing. And the people who buy guns and ammunition, as well as those
who sell those weapons, are endangering our well-being just as much as smokers are, if not more.”
-from the editorial pages of the September 26 edition of The Charlotte Observer. The piece was written by Howard Kleinberg
of the Cox News Service and advocated the taxation of weapons to pay for the new health care program.

Would Hillary hurry up, already?
“‘Why?’ they inquired, ‘does Mrs. Clinton think she can decide how to organize a health care system by having 500
people work for three months?’ After all, they explained, thousands of people in many countries had struggled for decades without
finding the perfect system. ‘But she doesn’t have to find the perfect system,’ I replied. ‘She just has to come
up with something better than what the United States has now.’ In that case, I was asked, what was taking
her so long?"
-from the summer edition of The Brookings Review. The author, Joseph White, is describing a meeting he had with Canadian
health care experts.

Seafood, BBQ & Catering

Save $3.00 on two Adult Dinner Entrees
*not redeemable at lunch
*Dine-In or Take-Out Only
*Only one coupon per couple per visit
As a courtesy to guests dining alone this coupon is redeemable for $1.50. This coupon is not redeemable with any
other coupon. Must bring in this coupon for offer to be valid.
Offer expires: 11-24-93
Hwy 21 South, Cornelius 892-3362
5pm-9pm
