18 THE DAVIDSONIAN PREVIEW MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1993

"We have very, very good shooters, as good as, I think, anyone in the country. And of course a strength
would be our depth. We are two deep and sometimes three deep [at each position]."
- Head Coach Bob McKillop

The Season Ahead
The Basketball Preview
Narat, Zimmerman, and experience keys to this season's success.
By Rick Thurmond

Last season, the Wildcats were picked to finish ninth in the Southern Conference. They shocked everyone but themselves by coming
in fifth, posting a 10-8 conference mark to go along with an overall 14-14 record. This year, they were picked
fifth at the Southern Conference Media Day. However, two national publications have ranked them fourth. With two 1,000 point scorers
in Jason Zimmerman and Janko Narat returning plus a talented and experienced group of sophomores, the Cats look to match
last year’s improvement.

Zimmerman and Narat lead a crew of talented perimeter players that Head Coach Bob McKillop cites as one of the
main strengths of this year’s team. Zimmerman, a 6’2” senior from Warsaw, Indiana, led the conference in three-point shooting percentage
(42%) last season, scored 13.0 ppg, and tied for the team lead in assists with 4.8 apg. Narat is the
leading returning scorer with 13.4 ppg, pulled down 5.0 rpg, and led the conference in free-throw shooting with a .867
mark. Both Zimmerman and Narat have started together for three years, over 75 games, and have developed a chemistry that
will be essential to the team’s success.

Up front, Sophomore point guard Chris Alpert, a member of the Southern Conference All-Freshman Team, rounds out the starting backcourt.
A former walk-on who earned a scholarship for his play last year, Alpert tied with Zimmerman for the team lead
in assists and provided a needed spark on the floor with his hustle and defensive intensity. Zimmerman and 6’5” sophomore
Frantisek Babka will back up Alpert at the point. Bringing explosive scoring and tenacious defense off the bench at the
off-guard position will be 6’4” sophomore Jeff Anderson. Anderson contributed 4.9 ppg in relatively limited playing time his freshman season.
Mark Donnelly, a 6’5” freshman from Shrewsbury, New Jersey also plays in the backcourt and from all reports has been
very impressive in the preseason.

In the paint, questions, however, remain down low. Graduation fairly decimated this area, leaving one experienced player in junior George
Spain. 7’0” Detlef Musch, last year’s leading scorer and rebounder, is playing professionally in Germany. 6’8” J.D. Heuer, an excellent
post defender and consummate role player, also graduated. Left behind is a big hole in the middle. Spain will try
to stuff his 6’8”, 250 lb. frame in that hole, with ample help from 6’10” Sophomore Mark McGwire. McKillop calls
it “a tossup” between those two for the starting center job. He could also go with a big lineup and
play them both. Horton, in the midst of rehabilitation from his third major knee surgery, is another option.

Janko Narat drives during a game last season. Photo courtesy Sports Tafa

1993-1994 Schedule
Date Opponent Arena Tip-Off
Nov. 27 University of South Belk Arena 7:30
Dec. 4 Samford Belk Arena 7:30
Dec. 6 at Wake Forest Joel Coliseum 7:30
Dec. 11 UNC Charlotte Belk Arena 7:30
Dec. 13 Oglethorpe Belk Arena 7:30
Dec. 19 Clemson Charlotte Coliseum 2:00
Dec. 30 at Marshall Henderson Center 7:30
Jan. 2 at N.C. State Reynolds Coliseum 2:00
Jan. 5 Western Carolina Belk Arena 7:30
Jan. 8 Furman Belk Arena 7:30
Jan. 13 at UTC UTC Arena 7:30
Jan. 15 at ETSU Memorial Center 7:30
Jan. 17 App. St. Belk Arena 7:30
Jan. 19 at The Citadel McAlister Field House 7:00
Jan. 22 at VMI Cameron Hall 1:00
Jan. 26 at Georgia Southern Hanner Fieldhouse 7:30
Jan. 29 UTC Belk Arena 7:30
Jan. 31 at Western Carolina Ramsey Center 7:00
Feb. 5 Georgia Southern Belk Arena 1:00
Feb. 7 The Citadel Belk Arena 7:30
Feb. 12 at Furman Memorial Auditorium 7:30
Feb. 15 at UNCC Charlotte Coliseum 7:30
Feb. 19 at App. St. Varsity Gymnasium 1:30
Feb. 21 East Tenn. St. Belk Arena 7:30
Feb. 26 Marshall Belk Arena 7:30
Feb. 28 VMI Belk Arena 7:30
Mar. 3-6 SC Tournament Asheville Civic Center TBAwill also be counted on for leadership down low if his recovery is
successful.

Versatility
Sophomore swingman Brandon Williams and Quinn Harwood should provide quality minutes in the paint as well. Tim Caldwell, a 6’8”
junior, adds depth. Williams and Harwood are a part of a group of talented, athletic, experienced, and versatile sophomores that
will see a lot of playing time this year. Both can play three positions, inside or outside. Williams is an
above-average shooter and rebounder who also owns the team’s highest vertical leap. He electrified the crowd several times last year
with his spectacular open-court dunks. Harwood is a 6’9” banger who also possesses a good outside game. Anderson and Babka
round out the group. Anderson will be counted on to score as well as stop others from doing so from
both the off-guard and small forward positions while Babka brings his ball-handling and shooting to any position except center. This
versatility will figure greatly in any success the Cats could have this season.

When asked about the team strengths, McKillop said, “No question about it, number one has to be our versatility.” The
fact that McKillop can go with a variety of lineups, big, small, offensive, or defensive and have confidence in each
will make the team extremely difficult to defend.

Preview in Europe
The team had a chance to demonstrate this versatility as well as add valuable experience this summer with a trip
to Italy. The Wildcats played six games in six days against foreign league professional teams, with players that McKillop called
“very physical, very competitive, basically men.” The experience was especially valuable in the backcourt. Due to the fact that Zimmerman
was unable to play due to a stress fracture, (he is fully recovered now) McKillop was forced to try other
players at the guard spots. McKillop mentioned Babka as perhaps the most pleasant surprise with his play at point guard.
On a more general level, the European trip was an invaluable opportunity for the team because it helped to develop
“the sense of team chemistry” that McKillop calls the number two team strength. Finally, the coaches got a chance to
do something that no other Southern Conference team could do. They were able to preview this year’s version of the
Cats before the official beginning of practice on Saturday, October 30. This should prove to be an edge over other
teams who have not had a chance to play together under coach’s supervision until this past weekend, due to NCAA
regulations.

Rough schedule
This head start and experience will be needed to survive a tough early schedule. Three of the first eight games
are against ACC teams Wake Forest, Clemson, and North Carolina State. Wake Forest and North Carolina State are away games
and the Clemson game will be played in Charlotte Coliseum. In addition, the Wildcats host UNC-Charlotte and travel to Huntington,
WV to play the Thundering Herd of Marshall, picked to contend for the Southern Conference crown. January should also prove
to be a challenging month, with a stretch of five out of six conference games on the road. The Cats,
though, should be able to finish strong with three straight home conference games before the tournament in the Asheville Civic
Center. A tournament championship, then, would mean an automatic bid to the big dance, the NCAA Tournament. McKillop’s group nearly
made it to the finals of the tournament, and a possible NCAA bid, last year. With Zimmerman and Narat leading
the versatile group of sophomores, this year’s Cats seem capable of even more. If either McGwire or Spain can step
up down low and the perimeter shooting becomes as damaging a weapon as it can be, look for the Davidson
Wildcats to make some noise this year in their second year in the Southern Conference.

Classifieds
FREE SPRING BREAK!!! Sell only eight trips and you go on Spring Break Free!! 1-800-678-6386

SPRING BREAK '94
SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH AND GO FREE!!! Student Travel Services is now hiring campus reps. Call 1-800-648-4849

FREE TRIPS AND MONEY!!! Individuals and Student Organizations wanted to promote the Hottest Spring Break Destinations, call the nation's leader.
Inter-Campus Programs at 1-800-327-6013
