10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

Freshman Wrestlers Excel at Washington and Lee Tournament

By Robert Lloyd-Still

As the Davidson wrestlers reached the midpoint of their season, the team continued to improve and more importantly, gain valuable experience. Last weekend, the ‘Cats traveled to the Washington & Lee Invitational, and they faced stiff competition from host W&L and teams including VMI, Washington and Jefferson, and Longwood.

The ‘Cats are young with seven freshmen on the starting lineup. They make up for their inexperience, though, with effort and determination. Coach Tom Oddo described the team’s performance in this manner: “We lost a lot of matches by one or two points which you learn to accept when you are starting so many freshmen. It’s basically a lack of experience.”

Many of the younger wrestlers have stepped into leadership roles for the ‘Cats. Oddo pointed out the performances of Tom Greene, Jared Glick, and Jason Deaton. Greene, a freshman, defeated the wrestler who had pinned him a week earlier. Greene went 3-1 for the weekend and lost to the eventual champion in the semi-finals. Glick wrestled a “strong, physical match,” according to Oddo, until an injury in the consolation semi-finals forced him to withdraw. Glick still managed a fourth-place finish. In the 118-pound weight class, Deaton took third place and lost in his final match by one point.

Oddo summed up the team’s progress so far by saying that “the team’s attitude is fabulous. Everybody is having a great time, enjoying the sport of wrestling. We are serious about getting better. We need some experience and the only way we can get it is by paying attention and wrestling.”

The ‘Cats’ next match is the Mid South Tourney at Jefferson City, Tennessee.

Men's Tennis Opens Spring Season

By Brannon Buck

This past weekend Davidson’s tennis team began the quest for its 22nd straight winning season under the guidance of coach Jeff Frank. The Wildcats faced tough competition at a tournament hosted by UNC-Chapel Hill which included teams from Wake Forest, Purdue, and Campbell in addition to the Wildcats and the Tar Heels.

Davidson’s performance provided some bright spots, but it also proved that the team has a great deal of work left to do before it delves further into its tough schedule. Frank was pleased with the doubles play, but noted that the team was not as sharp in singles. He also said there were no real standouts at the tournament. After going 8-0 in the fall, the ‘Cats will face an extremely tough schedule in the spring, complete with a full slate of Southern Conference opponents as well as Virginia and South Carolina. But with the entire singles line-up returning from last year’s squad (which finished second in the Big South) there is reason for optimism.

Captains Albie Varoski and Dave Tonidandel are confident about the season and their chances of winning the conference. Russell Briggs displayed his usual dose of arrogance when asked about this year’s team. “The way I look at it, we are definitely the team to beat.” Maybe Briggs went a bit too far, but this squad does have a chance to become one of the best tennis teams in Davidson’s history.

THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

To the Class of 1995

Reminder: Applications for Edward Crosland Stuart Scholarships are due no later than Friday, February 5, 1993. Note that completed applications must include letters of recommendation.

Selection of Stuart Scholars is based on qualities that characterized Ed Stuart for whom the program is named: Christian commitment, leadership potential, academic achievement, and vigorous outlook.

Application materials and additional information may be obtained from Ms. Brenda King, Chambers 111.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1993

Southern Conference Celebrates 10 Years of Women's Sports

By Holt Hathaway

When do you think women first attended Davidson College? If you guessed the fall of 1973, you are wrong. If you guessed 1972, you are wrong. If you guessed the 1970-1971 school year, you are still wrong. But if you guessed 1930, you are right.

Women first attended classes at Davidson during the Great Depression. At the time, families could not afford to send their daughters to women’s colleges, so local women were allowed to attend classes at Davidson. These local women were allowed only to attend, and could not speak out in class. Among them was Giddy Dyer, who was later a sponsor of the Equal Rights Amendment in the Illinois state legislature. In a Davidsonian article from January 14, 1983, Dyer commented that since then her consciousness has been raised, but at the time she felt it was an honor to be permitted in the classes.

Forty years later, Davidson participated in the Eight College Exchange Program, a program set up between Davidson and other colleges to let their students experience other college campuses. Mary Baldwin, Queens, Randolph-Macon, Hollins, and Sweet Briar also participated in the program. During the 1970-1971 school year, ten women attended Davidson on the Exchange Program. These female students were only attending Davidson temporarily; they were not allowed to receive degrees.

The following year twelve women came to Davidson on the program. These women participated in many campus activities, including the formation of an all-female IMAC swim team (probably the very first women’s athletic team).

In May of 1972, two years after the Exchange Program was started, the trustees of Davidson College unanimously voted to admit women as degree-seeking students. Davidson became officially coed in the fall of 1972. Although Davidson had aimed at admitting 100 female students, only twenty-nine degree candidates attended in 1972-1973, most of whom were transfers. Twenty-eight other female students also attended Davidson through the Exchange Program. In the fall of 1973, the first full class of freshmen women was admitted.

The rest of the story is about growth. This year, the Southern Conference is celebrating that growth. 1992-93 marks the 10th anniversary of women’s athletics in the Southern Conference. 

See “Southern” on page 11