_ SPORTS! MONDAY, APRIL 26, 1993

"Mad Dog" Sobon Saves the Day

By John Holmes

Following Saturday’s devastating 15-inning loss to the Miami Hurricanes under the hot Florida sun in the regional finals of the college baseball tournament, Coach Dick Cooke found himself in a problem. The Cats were one game away from their first-ever trip to the College World Series but had been dealt a crushing loss, 6-5, to the Hurricanes which left Cooke with no remaining pitchers.

As he stepped out of the dugout, he gazed into the crowd, fending off the glaring sun, realizing he was getting ready to coach possibly the biggest game of his career. He had a searching look for something to possibly fall from the sky and save him, then he saw his ticket to ride. The most loyal fan throughout the season was in the stands, a former pitcher whose recurring shoulder problem had kept him off the mound was there again, Tim “Mad Dog” Sobon. Cooke asked him if he had enough strength to go nine innings. Sobon, who got his nickname from his favorite beverage, figured he could do anything after 15 innings and three bottles, and said simply, “Sure.”

Mad Dog took a few warm-up pitches and headed to the mound. He was a sight to watch as he stumbled to the mound, insisting on wearing his Mickey Mouse hat, with a pink tank top, his favorite cut-off slacks from freshman year’s 70’s party, along with his worn-out docksiders. His eyes were bloodshot with a thin glaze and his lips were bright orange from an early afternoon Orange Jubilee.

Before he even got to throw his first pitch, he had his first argument with the umpire. The umpire said that Sobon would not be allowed to carry his Florida Marlin’s thermos to the mound, but Sobon put it simply, “If it goes, I go.” So he started to pitch, baffling the Hurricane batters by mixing up not only pitches but form as well. Sobon mastered the standard form by mixing fastballs with sliders and change-ups along with the side-armed form mastered by the great Dennis Eckersley. After each strikeout, the K-Korner would stand up another empty bottle on top of the dugout. Sobon would amass an amazing 10 strikeouts on the day.

“I’ve never seen a pitcher with so many different talents,” said the Hurricane Manager. The game stood at 0-0 after 5 innings as Sobon scattered only 6 hits. In the 6th inning, the game’s first possible bench clearer occurred, but all action was over before anyone could reach the mound. First baseman Clay Hall went up to bat and was hit by a pitch. Hall proceeded to charge the mound, knocking out the pitcher and placing the catcher on his butt. There were no other challengers. Unfortunately, the pitcher was rushed to the hospital, and it was later determined he will be a vegetable for the rest of his life. When asked about the incident after the game, Hall simply said, “The cutie pie stranger hit me with the baseball, so I hit him with my fist. I guess I should send him a card, I love baseball.”

The game would then enter the 8th inning, still a 0-0 ballgame, with Davidson dodging some huge bullets but only amassing 2 hits for the offensive cause. In the bottom of the 8th, Sobon was still in the game, despite close calls in between innings when it appeared he might pass out. But he would face his closest call of the afternoon. With men on first and second and only one out, the umpire called time and went to the mound to speak with “Mad Dog.” The ump asked to see Sobon’s hat as he noticed a shine on its bill, and the ump quickly identified the substance as Vaseline. Sobon explained that the Vaseline was not...used to aid his pitching, but was there for personal reasons. Due to a confused umpire, Sobon was forced to demonstrate to the umpire and all spectators that wished to view as he followed in the footsteps of his idol, David Cone. Once he was done he requested a short nap. The umpire simply said, “Get your ass back on the mound.” Sobon, as a result of sudden fatigue and anger, allowed 1 run to score and the Cats entered the 9th down 1-0 with 3 outs left. Finally, the bats woke up for Davidson as Rick Bender hit a 2-run homer that traveled over 450 yards, driving in pinch hitter Will, the bat boy, who reached on an error. The Cats were up 2-1 going into the bottom of the 9th. The game rested on the shoulders of Sobon, who obviously had no idea of what was going on and probably wouldn’t until the next day, as he strutted to the mound for the last three outs. The first batter flied out to left, the second struck out, falling for the old submarine style pitch, leaving the Cats one out from the College World Series. Sobon committed three intentional walks, despite what Coach Cooke had to say, just to add to the drama. The final batter came up to the plate, a Baseball to College World Series All-American right fielder. Sobon took a swig from his thermos, cringing as it gushed down his throat, and set up to pitch, shaking off all catcher Brett Boretti’s signs until Boretti signaled for the “Thunderbird” pitch. He took one more swig, and lined up delivering the pitch as the batter set to swing, drilling the ball straight back to Sobon. With no time to duck, and his reactions slightly impaired, Sobon stood in shock as the ball got nearer and nearer, ultimately hitting him directly in the stomach as his whole body folded inward and hit the ground. After impact, his body sprung out like a spring as the ball went straight up, and came straight down, landing in his lap. Out three. Sobon complained of shortness of breath for several hours and teammates complained of his vomit, consisting of different bright colors, which sprayed over everyone during the pile-up celebration. Mad Dog Sobon, the new Davidson hero, give him a bottle the next time you see him.

PiKA Krop Watch

8:10 Ukrop runs out to the soccer field and jogs. Look at those thighs!
9:00 He eats Wheaties—He's not on the cover... yet—with a glass of orange juice. Look at those cute little lips!
10:00 First class—it's a Tuesday—and he takes great classics notes. Look at his adorable little hands.
12:30 He heads down to KA for a little lunch. Drops his food. What a precious little pouty face.
1:15 Back to class. He answers a question. Boy was Dr. Tomazoo (sic.) impressed.
1:30 Falls asleep in class. His eyelids just look great with the light shining on them.
6:00 Dinner at KA after watching TV. He looks great just sitting there.
10:00 Party at KA. What great musical choices. What a dancer.

Lee You Can Be A KA, Too!

The brothers of Kappa Alpha Order thought we'd let the rest of the campus in on a little secret. This is the photo we use to decide who's good enough to join our house. If you're a guy and you dress like the stunning looking fellow in the photo above, then you, too, can be a "knight" of the Kappa Alpha Order. This is no joke. It may not be much of a standard to judge by, but who cares? The soccer team is in our frat. (Note the ball and shoes the young man in the middle is holding and wearing, respectively!)