THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1993 11

Jeff George

Enough is enough. With all due respect, enough is enough. When I first visited Davidson College in the spring of
1991, the campus had recovered from Hurricane Hugo, the dogwood trees were all in bloom, and there was a full
track around Richardson Field. Really takes you back, eh? I fell in love with the campus then. When I arrived
as a freshman that fall, there was only one major difference: no track. Well, there was a track, but only
the outer three lanes were left after the widening of the soccer field. Nevertheless, I decided to continue running track—as
any athlete will tell you, a sport becomes part of your life, and after four years of successful competition it
was difficult to think about quitting. Besides, as the Athletic Department promised, a new facility (or maybe even a renovation
of the old one) was coming soon.

Now, two full years later, the track is down to one lane, unless you want to dodge potholes on your
way through the first turn (not easy to do at high speed, I might add). As my third track season
approaches, there is still no site for a new track, and no action is expected anytime soon. What happened to
all the promises? I doubt that my own situation is really that much different from anyone else’s, because disillusionment seems
to be the norm here. Davidson is not the shining Mecca that many of us thought it would be, but
then that’s likely to happen many more times in our lives. It is a person’s response to situations like this,
not the situations themselves, that will ultimately define him or her. When your plans for the future just flat don’t
pan out, will you sit back and hope for change to come on its own, and talk about the way
things ought to be? That’s how most people handle problems in their lives, just like I have all too often.
The alternative, of course, is to get off your butt and do something about it.

For me, the whole track issue is largely bitter, rhetorical, and moot. Next year will find me pursuing my engineering
degree at NC State, where the intramural program runs on an 8-lane, high-tech, pothole-free synthetic surface. This means that I
won’t be here when the new track and field facility is finally completed. There is more to the issue than
my own involvement, though. Somehow, despite the poor quality of our track, despite the relatively mediocre quality of our team,
coaches Beth Manson and Gary Andrew have managed to recruit a talented group of young runners, including more than ten
freshmen and women on the cross country team this fall. These athletes represent the future of Davidson track and field,
and they have the talent to take the program to a level above any it has ever achieved. These young
athletes deserve to train and compete in an environment that will allow them to realize their enormous potential; the hard-working
and dedicated

Depressed should seek help

Prozac continued from page 8

At the same time, I was not enjoying the things that I usually loved, and my concentration was shot. In
short, I became an expert at plaster-staring. I woke up every morning asking, “Why am I alive?” and going to
bed every night thinking, “Why am I still alive?” My point is that this is not the state of mind
to be in when trying to problem-solve. To Stephen Faller, I couldn’t have successful therapy or figure things out for
myself because I was so depressed. I know this isn’t always an easy concept to grasp, but consider what it
would be like to be a statue made of cement, your mind only working at one-fourth speed and psychologically unable
to talk about anything more personal than the weather.

This story does have a good ending. I had a friend who cared enough and persevered enough to make me
talk. The hardest thing for a suicidal person to do is ask for help. He made me do it, and
he saved my life. Even so, my parents months later finally realized what was happening to me, that I was
clinically depressed, and decided to seek medical advice. It was not an easy decision for me and my parents, but
I have been on Zoloft (a drug very similar to Prozac) since January. We know we made the right choice.
That’s not to say I don’t have problems any more or don’t get down once in a while. The difference
is that I can think clearly and deal with my problems like a normal human being. I cannot overemphasize the
fact that I would not have been able to do it without Zoloft.

I’d like to leave you with one more message. Depression can be very hard to identify; it took me years.
Also, the more depressed a person is, the less likely they are to be able to help themselves. Please, if
you or someone you know is depressed, do something. Asking for help takes enormous amounts of courage, but it has
to be done. There are people all around who can help. For starters, try the Student Counseling Center, or just
talk to someone you trust. I'd be more than glad to talk to people about my experiences or just offer
an open ear and a comfortable shoulder. Just please talk to someone.

Sincerely,
Adriana Arcia '97Coaches deserve some reward for the time and effort that they have invested in the Davidson Athletic Department.
In short, the track team deserves the same respect that is given to all varsity athletes here. They deserve adequate
training facilities. They deserve a track. Now, lobbying for a new track won’t affect me directly, ‘cause I’ll be outta
here after this year. But it will make a difference in the lives of my teammates, both present and future,
and for that reason, I have decided to get off my butt and do something, if only to raise a
good old-fashioned ruckus. I challenge everyone at Davidson to do the same for something that they care deeply about. Maybe
you can’t make things better for you while you’re here—at least you can make things better for those who will
come after you. Whether it is something tangible, like a new facility, or something more ephemeral, like an improvement in
the harmony and togetherness of the Davidson community, each and every person here has the power to make a lasting
contribution to this college. If we don’t change things, who will? If we don’t start now, when will we? With
the track, as with most of the problems that we face here as students, words are no longer a sufficient
medium for improvement—definitive steps must be taken to improve our situation. The time for promises has passed; now is the
time for action.

Blame it on Texas: Susanna Young

I can't believe they saw two Garth Brooks shows. I have to admit that earlier this week I was a
little nervous that I wouldn’t have anything to write about this week. I mean, there weren’t any more awards shows,
and nobody slammed my column last week, so I really was plumb out of ideas as to what I might
write about. But then I saw it. Tucked back into the Arts section was an article about him. I knew
I was going to be sick. Brooks. Ouch. Folks, Garth Brooks (dirty thief) didn’t write “Shameless,” Billy Joel did. He
recorded it first. Is Billy Joel THE man of country music? It’s his song that has elevated Mr. Brooks (sell-out)
to the multi-media megastar status he now enjoys. Sorry, Garth (loser). I realize that the world is becoming more liberal
and tolerant about a lot of things, but I myself still cannot completely accept somebody who goes both ways (bisexual).
And the illustrious weekly that I call home had actually published an article about that man. That guitar-smashing, song-stealing, self-centered,
barbarian-disguised-as-a-country-singer. And they were complimenting him!

Now, I’m not trying to perpetuate intra-newspaper warfare. The fact is that I simply cannot leave this subject untouched any
longer. This week I would like to present to you the testimony of a Garth Brooks-hater in a world where
half of all country music listeners think he invented it. I am not ashamed of my problem, but the aversion
I feel towards Garth is, indeed, chemical. I shall not be moved. The most painful words I ever hear are
these: “No, I don’t listen to country. But I like Garth.” I can’t believe they went to both concerts. I
am shocked and offended. I also resent your insulting Stephanie Davis in such a manner. She was on my freshman
hall last year and could school Garth (off-key) any day. And he was wearing “second-skin Wranglers”? Kids, Garth Brooks (over-inflated
walrus) is fat. I’d rather not have such a superb view. And they went to both concerts? I’m still not
over it. Once upon a time (cold day in hell) I was a Garth Brooks (not even) fan. Looking back,
all I can say is: blame it all on my roots, I hate him. I can’t believe you went to
both shows.

SIGNE PHILADELPHIA DAILY NEWS USA

Don't make something out of nothing

Kaylor continued from page 8

College’s matriculants (yes, that’s us), this time with happy faces, flowers, or something like that. Well, the covers are kind
of stupid, but can anyone remember when the directories actually said something funny, or important on the cover (those from
the Union, Dean of Students office, or wherever do not need to write back next week to bitch about that—there’s
no offense meant. They are dumb, I’ll give you that. However, whoever does print these things up surely did not
mean to offend women or men, for that matter) with “Sam, I can’t believe it’s been twenty years!” Why, in
fact, is there a problem with the infamous cover? Is it because the woman does not look like the typical
Davidson woman? (This is not my opinion, by the way; many Davidson women have actually said this). So, if a
portly woman on the cover were wearing a business suit and glasses and she said, “You bet it’s been twenty
years, Sam,” would that have made you a little more comfortable? I really do not have time to write professors
every week, mostly because they keep me busy with all of the homework they assign. But this last letter needed
to be addressed. People are people, white, black, red, green, orange, yellow, who cares? Women and minorities have gotten shafted
throughout history, but as the not-so-great Rodney King once said, “Can’t we all just get along?” It is time to
start living as a species, not as races and sexes. When people complain about stuff like this, they amplify my
discontent with PC. These are telephone books, for Christ’s sake; stop making problems out of nothing, and stop doing nothing
about the problems.

Disappointed,
Michael Savona ’94
