THE DAVIDPHONIAN! SPECIAL MONDAY, APRIL 26, 1993

Does it Matter?

Recently, the Davidson Infirmary has attempted to come up with a solution to the rapid increase of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) on campus. The alarming facts are that 78% of the student body has now contracted syphilis, 52% has gonorrhea, and one soccer player has passed on genital warts to at least 62 females and 3 males. The infirmary attributes these large figures to the size of the campus. One infirmary worker, Vinny Rheal, states, “This school is so small that everyone hooks up with everyone else. I wouldn’t be surprised if every person on this campus has had sex with every other person at least once. I mean, everyone’s so horny here. I’ve never seen such a pack of rabbits!”

Visiting infirmary physician, B. Lou Ballsmeyer, agrees. “This horny thing is putting every student at risk—especially those loose InterVarsity members. All I know is that we had to come up with a solution fast! We also wanted our proposal to be something that the students would adhere to. That’s why we made it into sort of a ‘bandwagon’ club with a cool name and acronym.”

The infirmary has proposed a new group on campus that would be funded by the Activities Tax Council, called FLOTT (Friends Leaving on Their Trousers). Members of this group will agree to only having dry sex (also called “dry humping”) when they hook up, and will leave posters and fliers around campus reminding all students of the benefits of leaving on their clothes. Ballsmeyer explains, “We got the idea one day when we were walking outside and saw two dogs engaging in foreplay. At first we thought, ‘Maybe we could ask the students to only smell each other’s butts,’ but then we realized that dry sex was the real answer. This way, students won’t run the risk of ex-”

Wholeheartedly backed by SHOC and CCRL, the proposal has only found opposition in the laundry service. One laundry worker was overheard saying, “I thought cleaning those dirty sheets was bad enough. I used to be able to pretend that the students were blowing their noses in the sheets. I won’t be able to convince myself that’s what they’re doing in the crotches of their pants! This group must be stopped.”

Despite these complaints, it seems almost inevitable that FLOTT will receive a charter from the SGA. Alden Smith, president of the SGA, has already been quoted as saying, “When I first heard about this dry humping thing, I thought it was pretty sick. But then I tried it, and it really works. Both my partner and I were completely satisfied after we were done, and we only made a mess on ourselves.” With a big smile, he concluded, “Most importantly, I really enjoyed myself!!”

After the FLOTT charter passes through the SGA, the group will have elections for its leaders, and will enact its five-point proposal to endorse sex with clothes on: 1) to engage in dry sex, 2) to put up fliers and reminders of its benefits, 3) to have special speakers and lecturers concerning humping, 4) to have incoming freshmen read the best seller “Imaginary Sex,” and 5) to have Davidson Plus retreats that include “Dry Sex: Hands-On Training” seminars to ensure that students are doing it right.

When asked what he thinks about the formation of a dry sex group on campus, Dean Terry said, “I think it’s about time Davidson students had this type of group to turn to. I’ve always felt kind of lonely, like I’m the only one who engages in dry humping. Now I know I’m not, and I’m sure there are a lot of students out there that will be as relieved as I am. We’re definitely not alone. I truly hope FLOTT becomes a permanent establishment on this campus, and I dream of the day when all students and faculty will join. I envision a campus of humping harmony, and that makes me smile.”

Filling the space at the end of an article sucks.

Vax Sex Splurge Covers Campus
By Gross

A new outbreak on campus has caught the attention of the administration and trustees. Several students, feeling that phone sex 900 numbers are too expensive, began a new type of alternative sex—Vax Sex. This phenomenon started around the beginning of this fiscal year and has many elders and cool people in an outrage. When I heard about this Vax Sex,” one prominent trustee is quoted as saying, “I thought it might be a good alternative to those large phone bills, so I tried it. However, whenI found out it was run by a bunch of computer nerds, it was completely ruined for me. I mean, how can you imagine you're conversing with a hot, buxom babe when you know it’s just some fat guy getting off on the other end of the line? Besides, anyone on the Vax is obviously not in a private place, and I think getting off in the computer center is pretty sick.

The fact that most students do not own a modem (a device needed to access the Vax system) has the faculty in an uproar. Because they don’t own modems, students using the system are obviously using it either in the library or in the computer center. “We must be very careful to keep these people out of the library,” said library coordinator Dr. Leland Park. “I’ve already had several students complain that the keyboards on the CHAL computers are sticky and difficult to operate.”

Another difficulty that concerns students and faculty alike is that there is no way of finding out who the actual sex perpetrators are. An addition to the computer system will be installed by the fall of next year that will enable the administration to trace the original sex Vax. However, as of now, these perpetrators, also called “Wooker Hookers,” will be able to get away with their crude computer conversations.

“I think it’s disgusting,” said one cool SAE. “Think about it. I could be innocently writing a paper in the computer center, and there could be some sicko next to me ‘getting off’ because of some stupid writing on a computer screen. I wish I could just turn to these people and say, ‘Hey, you, get a freaking life! Go find yourself some real action, trekky!’ They really piss me off.” (The SAE then proceeded to gargle gasoline, spit it on the ground, and light a stolen modem on fire in a demonstration of his anger because SAEs are always violent).

Despite this open opposition, it has become obvious that the In Crowd is not the only group determined to stop the Wooker Hookers. The director of the Residence Life Office, Dick Terry, is trying to come up with a solution to the problem, as well. “Many faculty members have come to me to complain about these disgusting people, and I now see that I need to get off my ass and try to stop them.

“One solution we are looking at is to provide modems in every room so that they can clean up their own mess in private. We’re also thinking of working with the Admissions Office to keep these freaks out of this school. But we’ll still have to deal with at least four more years of these honkin’ dorks.”

PERSONALS!

Symbols:
S - Single
M - Married
W - White
B - Black
E - Eskimo
P - Professor
G - Gay
T - Transvestite
D - Desperate
M - Male
F - Female

Yeah, there are two M's—just figure it out for yourself.

SWF seeks fun-loving mate with a taste for animals and sodomy. Anyone interested please call 6969.

SWP is looking for a senior girl with a flair for poetry. Please contact Shorty at 4539.

Do you like whips? Call me at the RLO Office and I'll show you my collection. DICK T.

MW - Looking for fun-loving person who loves to rob the campus of all their money. Call Carlton at 3452.

M/E/P - Hunting for whale-sized member (That means you Rusk) who will help me make more Eskimo type people. Call 3421.

STDF - There are few of us so join the rest of us in the 900 room on Saturdays. Please.

SBF looking for a young fellow who really likes to eat a lot. I may be a little heavy but I'm still really fun. Please call me, pretty please, with sugar on top.

HEY girls! Call someone and get some play. Any guy is willing!

A caring SWM is looking for companionship in a platonic relationship. I can help you with all of your problems. JOHN P. 7654

Do you play soccer? Are you in KA? Are you cocky as hell? Call almost any good-looking girl on campus? Any number.

Mother seeking college student to have an affair with. Call me any time day or night and I'll be right over. 7865.

Are you desperate? Call 1-800-XXX-LICK and I'll fulfill your wildest desires. No Phi Delts.

A caring, SWM thinks you look like a beautiful movie star. Call PS. at 4353.

Great dancer with a flair for lying. Please call Rogers at 4536. I swear that girl was lying!!!!!

Short, dark-skinned fellow with a love of Burger King is looking for a small little piece of Heaven. Please call me at 4534. Anyone? Anyone?

The staff of the Davidsonian is looking for anyone with more taste than this. Please, save us from ourselves.