THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1993

Guruge Speaks on Buddhism & Its Role

Guruge Continued from page 1

gence and mortification. He preached that life is impermanent, permeated with suffering, and uncontrollable due to the unpredictable nature of
things. Dr. Guruge explained the training of the mind or “mind culture” as the crux of Buddhist teaching. A follower
of Buddha should exercise spiritual involvement: value, morality, Sila. Buddhism promotes behavior guided by such principles as kindness, compassion, sympathetic
joy, and the sense of equanimity.

According to Dr. Guruge, Sri Lanka is tolerant to all religions and philosophies, serving as a model for other nations
to emulate. “This is a nation that cares for the rebels during its civil war by keeping them fed and
tending to their wounded,” Dr. Guruge responded to a question from the audience.

The lecture was sponsored by the Culpepper Foundation, AT&T, Nationsbank, Southern Bell, Union Board Committees, the South Asia Department, the
economics department, and the SGA as a part of South Asia week.

Road to Brown Celebrates Activist Houston

Movie Shown as Part of Black History Month Activities

South Asia Week ... Dancers perform for audience in Vail Commons. South Asia Week festivities and speakers continued throughout the
week. Photo by Casey Rogers

By CeCi Combs

As part of an informative series celebrating February as Black History Month, a film entitled “The Road To Brown” was
shown in the College Union last Thursday evening. The film was introduced by History Professor, Dr. Barbara Ballard. “The Road
to Brown” documented the achievements of black lawyer and crusader for equality Charles Hamilton Houston. Houston’s life of dedication to
his cause culminated in the 1954 U.S. Supreme Court decision proclaiming segregation unconstitutional in the landmark case Brown v. the
Board of Education.

In 1896 the U.S. Supreme Court ruled “separate but equal” facilities constitutional in the Plessy v. Ferguson case. Thus began
the era of Jim Crow laws at the turn of the century. However, the rights of African-Americans were largely ignored.
Houston, a graduate of Amherst College and son of affluent parents, was not originally interested in a life of activism.
After volunteering for duty in World War I and experiencing conditions such as sub-standard housing and white lynch mobs, Houston
changed his mind.

Charles Houston became the first black member of the Harvard Law Review and was named Dean of Howard University Law
School in 1929. He claimed that a lawyer was either “a social engineer or a parasite on society," and Houston
strove to be the former. He became a special counselor for the NAACP in 1934. Houston’s ambition was to attack
the “separate but equal” clause by concentrating on segregation in education.

A black man denied admission to the only law school in Maryland on the basis of his color was the
subject of Houston’s first noted victory. From there he moved to equalizing the salaries of teachers in Maryland and eventually
saw the doubling of these African-American teachers’ wages. Later, Houston won a case in the Supreme Court which involved a
student’s rejection to law school on the basis of his color. This pushed him onto the national stage.

In 1940 Houston left the NAACP and Thurgood Marshall was named his successor. Houston widened his areas of concentration, leading
demonstrations and serving on Roosevelt’s Fair Practices Committee. Houston once stated that he “would give his life fighting day and
night,” and this is just what he did. So dedicated to fighting for justice, Houston didnot heeding his doctors’ warnings
and died of heart failure in 1950. Houston got his wish, though, for he said he “would rather die on
his feet than live on his knees."

Study Abroad Applications Near Deadline
By Shaye Benton

For the adventurous and the prudent... for the laid-back and the high-strung... wonderful opportunities exist here at Davidson for students
to experience cultures and study at international universities in almost any country worldwide. The Office of Study Abroad has a
library of information for any curious individual; for those who are considering studying internationally, now is the time to stop
by the office, ask questions, and fill out applications.

Davidson students in the past have studied in countries from Western Europe to Asia and have returned to Davidson with
great experiences, new knowledge, and good advice. Students serve as valuable resources; they have recently traveled, gone through the application
processes, and made the decisions. When asked to describe memorable aspects of their travels, students respond with enthusiasm.

While participating in Davidson’s Montpelier program, Julia Lake enjoyed her literature courses. She noted that the location of Montpelier, ten
minutes from the Mediterranean, provides a bright and sunny climate and gorgeous vineyards. During his semester in Kenya, Dan Bahmiller
took three safaris of ten days each, traveling across Kenya to national parks and different areas to study wildlife and
native cultures. Mary Katherine Gregory spent a semester in Edinburgh, Scotland with the Davidson Program and remembers both the city
of Edinburgh and the Scottish countryside as absolutely beautiful. She noted that the friendliness of the Scots made her feel
at home as well. Mike Grant remarked that during his stay in Brisbane, Australia, he felt comfortable because English is
spoken there. He remarked that it is worth visiting Australia’s national parks to see the koalas and kangaroos. Peter Hurtado
studied in Hungary and recommends his experience in a homestay with a native family in order to “see the culture
from the inside.” He noted that studying in an Eastern European country is especially interesting because of the social and
economic changes currently taking place. Amanda Grim noted the well-organized public transportation system of the Netherlands and the popular concern
individuals have for the environment. She said that in order to decrease the use of cars, “everyone rides bikes... if
someone comes by to give you a ride, you will ride on the back of their bike or on the
handlebars.”

Dr. Homer Sutton is the present Coordinator of Davidson’s Study Abroad Program and Ms. Carolyn Ortmayer is Associate Coordinator. The
office hours are from 9:30 - 3:00, M-F, and students are encouraged to stop by the office, located on the
second floor of Chambers, anytime. Financial aid for study abroad is offered through the Financial Aid Office and a foreign
study scholarship fund is also available for interested students through the Dean Rusk Office. Currently, applications are available for the
Oeland Scholarship for Summer Language Study, and are due by Friday, April 2.

Davidson’s study abroad office introduces students to once-in-a-lifetime adventures. If you are interested in sampling thought and culture from around
the world, study abroad is for you.

Davidson students experience a taste of India last semester. Photo by Phoebe Dean

Washington's Birthday Sale!
Our Annual DOORBUSTER Event Starts Thurs. Feb. 18th
Merchant of Fashion and Quality Apparel for MEN and WOMEN
John Mack & Son
123 North Main St., Downtown Mooresville
