12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1993

Rachel's going abroad but she's taking her favorite 10 CDs.
By Rachel Newcomb

Recently I asked myself, if I were stranded on a desert island, what ten CDs would I want to have with me? Of course, nobody can predict when a catastrophe like this is going to occur, so I probably wouldn’t have advance notice to grab my favorite albums. But I can predict that I’m going abroad next semester, which means that I’ll have to take along a few cassettes. What would a semester in Morocco be without Neil Young? In no particular order, here are the ten best records according to me. If I omit some of your favorites, please forgive me. These choices reflect my own biases.

10. Lenny Kravitz - Let Love Rule. Although Kravitz’ most recent albums are stylistically more accomplished than this first release, Let Love Rule has energy and enthusiasm. At this stage of his career, Kravitz had not yet perfected his swaggering 1970’s persona and was nothing more than an eager young musician. Some of the songs are hits and some complete misses, but cuts like “Sittin’ on Top of the World,” “Freedom Train,” and “Rosemary” land right on the mark.

9. R.E.M. - Murmur. Another first effort (if you don’t count Chronic Town), Murmur has jangly guitars, a quick beat and practically unintelligible lyrics by Michael Stipe. Even though I bought this record in 1986, I have never gotten tired of it. It became the soundtrack to my junior high years. The members of R.E.M. are in their thirties now and producing serious music for the masses. But in 1981, they were nothing more than a bunch of college kids from Athens. “Perfect Circle” is a haunting ballad, while “Sitting Still” has a small town feel to it. Every song on this record is good, especially the confusing “Moral Kiosk” and “Shaking Through.”

8. Van Morrison - Astral Weeks. This album came out in 1968, and is my favorite Van Morrison album. There’s something very Irish about this album, right down to the Dylan Thomas-like lyrics of some of the songs. Most of the songs are very soft, and if records can evoke a mood, this one makes me think of spring rain, especially cuts like “Astral Weeks” and “Sweet Thing.” It’s good to listen to as you go to sleep, a peaceful record.

Rachel's Top Ten Must-TAKE CDs:
1. NEIL YOUNG - Everybody Knows This is Nowhere
2. THE DOORS - The Best of The Doors
3. BOB DYLAN - Blood on the Tracks
4. SONNY BOY WILLIAMSON - His Best
5. PHISH - Rift
6. GRATEFUL DEAD - From the Mars Hotel
7. PEARL JAM - Vs.
8. VAN MORRISON - Astral Weeks
9. R.E.M. - Murmur
10. LENNY KRAVITZ - Let Love Rule

Garnett Smith: promising musician
By Josh Larned

According to Garnett Smith, a passion for music “is an interest that I’ve pretty much been brought up on.” This love originates from childhood piano lessons and having participated in his church choir from the age of five. However, while many people gradually abandon their musical talents to pursue other interests, Smith’s bond with classical music has inflated over time. This may not seem that out of the ordinary for a music major. Nonetheless, what makes Smith unique from other senior majors in the department is that his focus of study is upon conducting. He cites Mary Nell Saunders, a former professor of music and resident conductor at Davidson, as a tremendous influence in his decision to study this particular area. Smith’s enormous talent is evident in his thriving career since arriving at Davidson. His activities and awards read like a professional resume.a perfect resume for one about to pursue a musical career. He has won the Zachary Long Music Award: an academic recognition for “an undergraduate with promise.” For his senior thesis and project analysis, Smith has chosen to concentrate upon Vivaldi and Francis Poulenc’s Glorius. In addition, he is a member of the American Choral Directors Association and a student conductor for the Davidson Concert Choir. As if this wasn’t enough, Smith is a member of the Oratorio Singers of Charlotte when he isn’t engaging in academic pursuits. Smith’s pet project, however, seems to be with First Presbyterian Church in Statesville. There, he currently serves as head music director. This job involves overseeing an adult choir, three children’s choirs, a youth choir, and a handbell choir. It is his intention to continue this job for a year after college before attending a graduate program in sacred music. At a time when many aren’t sure of what they want to accomplish in terms of career opportunities, Smith is living proof of elementary advice: happiness is simply doing what you love. Keep it up, Garnett.

With classics like “Scarlet Begonias,” “Unbroken Chain,” and “Ship of Fools,” this is an essential Grateful Dead album for anybody’s collection. The songs are loose and folksy, with an easy rhythm and characteristic Dead vocals.

5. Phish - Rift. No desert island would be complete without some Phish on hand. All four of their CDs are excellent, but Rift is my favorite. It shows a band strengthening their music in form and complexity, and Rift is extremely innovative as well. Intricate chord progressions and weird lyrics can be found throughout the record. And what other band would have lyrics like “I’d like to cut your head off/ So I can weigh it/ Whaddya say?” I’ve found that it’s great driving music as well.

4. Sonny Boy Williamson - Down and Out Blues. Sonny Boy Williamson may not be as high profile a blues artist as Robert Johnson or Muddy Waters, but this was the first blues album I ever had and it’s still my favorite. Sonny Boy is dissatisfied, and there’s no doubt that he’s down and out. “Don’t start me to talkin’/ I’ll tell you everything I know,” he admonishes on the first cut. Good, gritty Delta blues at its best.

3. Bob Dylan - Blood on the Tracks. This album, released in 1974, is not similar to Dylan’s earlier music. But with the all-time classic “Tangled Up in Blue” and songs like “Simple Twist of Fate” and the raging “Idiot Wind,” Dylan created a classic album. All of the cuts on here are excellent, and don’t have the raw sound of his first releases. The lyrics are beautiful. Those who find Dylan’s music grating might enjoy Blood on the Tracks—his voice is softer and the music is toned down.

2. The Doors - L.A. Woman. The Doors’ last release before the untimely death of Jim Morrison, L.A. Woman is a dark album that finds the band in top form. The music is strong, and Jim Morrison’s voice is gravelly and raw with emotion. Cuts like “L.A. Woman” and “Hyacinth House” have a slightly foreboding feel to them, and the entire album is fraught with danger. L.A. Woman proves that the band never lost their edge, even at the end.

1. Neil Young - Everybody Knows This is Nowhere. This was a tough call. Any desert island should have several Neil Young CDs, but this one has to be my favorite. It has some of his best songs on it, including “Cinnamon Girl,” “Cowgirl In the Sand,” and “Down By the River.” Neil’s lyrics are simple but direct, his guitar playing expert, and his voice distinct. “People always seem to wonder/ What it’s like down here/ I gotta get away from this day to day running around/ Everybody knows this is nowhere.” I cannot say it any better than that.

See y’all next year. I'm off to Morocco.

SENIORS

Study Break
* Tuesday
Morrison Room
* 9:30

The Senior Class Gift Committee is sponsoring a study break to discuss this year's gift. Suggestions can also be placed in a box in either the Union or the Library.

The Davidsonian

Anyone interested in editing or writing should contact The Davidsonian office at -2148. Several positions are available for next semester.