16

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1993

Women's soccer looks strong

By Will Cobb

Davidson's women's soccer team opened its season with two victories and a tough, hard-fought loss to Maryland. These two victories
over the College of Charleston and Charleston Southern helped the team see what to work on, recognizing weaknesses and strengths.

Now that the program is in its fifth year, team depth has grown and roles for players off the bench
have also changed. This has added to the competitiveness which could be seen Friday night against the Maryland Terrapins. Davidson
lost 3-0, but they played a very rough, physical match.

This was a four-goal reduction from last year’s game and Maryland only lost two starters. Although the Cats were unable
to score, they had several excellent opportunities. The new-found depth in the team could be seen as the Cats hung
tough from the beginning to the end.

With the loss of only two starters, the team still has the offensive power it had last year. The coach
plans to use a rotating line-up to exploit the team’s depth, by exchanging halfbacks and serving balls through to the
two forwards, Jenn Beebe and Heather Wineburg. The schedule features tough competition at home versus teams such as Duke, NC
State, Vanderbilt, and Kentucky.

SPORTS

Photo by Mike Weber
Senior veteran Colleen Camaione will lead the lady Cats in the team's fifth season. They are currently 2-1.

Lake Norman Driving Range

NEW GRASS TEES
PRIVATE & GROUP LESSONS
18520 Hwy 73 W
Huntersville, NC 28078
2 Miles West from I-77 Exit 28
896-8446

PGA PRO PAT STILLISANO AND STAFF present:
Swing Training

PST Clinics - Sept. 18 & Oct. 2
SIGN UP NOW!

$1.00 off one large bucket of range balls with this ad -- limit one per customer

The Davidsonian sports section is still looking for sports writers. If you are interested please contact Robert Lloyd-Still at 892-5241.

“If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost. That is where they should be.
Now put the foundations under them.” —Henry David Thoreau

Field trips

Program Costs:

@ In Seville, Spain

Application deadlines:

1-800-342-1725

University of Wisconsin-Platteville

Learn Your Way Around The World

@ Study abroad in London, England or Seville, Spain, for a summer, for a semester or for a full academic
year
Courses in liberal arts and international business
Fluency in a foreign language not required
Home-stays with meals
Financial aid applies (except for summer session)

@ For tuition, room, board and field trips per semester
@ In London, England
$4,225 for Wisconsin residents/$4,475 for non-residents
@ In Seville, Spain
$4,725 for Wisconsin residents/$4,925 for non-residents
@ April 1 for summer session
@ April 30 for fall semester
@ October 20 for spring semester

For a program description and an application, call toll free:

Soccer excitement builds on TV

Package continued from page 14

broadcast of the semifinals wasn’t enough of a product to sell to national sponsors,” Millen said. The biggest complication to
creating an attractive package was that CBS held broadcast rights to the final match. CBS intended, just as they did
with last year’s match, not to broadcast the finals live, but to delay broadcast for a month. Millen explained, “Neither
CBS nor the NCAA wanted to discuss that situation because the soccer rights were just a small part of their
overall billion-dollar contract, most of which concerns basketball games.

"I'm fully convinced Terry Holland is the only man in the U.S. who could have broken that deadlock, and he
did. He sat down with representatives from both and convinced CBS they didn’t want the finals because it was a
money loser for them, and he convinced the NCAA that the finals needed to be broadcast live. We reached an
agreement over the July 4 holiday for the NCAA to sell us the rights to the finals for one year,
with a one-year option.”

With live broadcasts of both the semifinals and the finals now in Davidson’s control, the marketing possibilities of the package
were looking brighter. But Davidson wanted to add one more element in a move to try to build audience excitement
toward the finals weekend.

With help from Ken Neal ’87 of Jefferson Pilot Productions and Ken Chartier, worldwide soccer promotions director for Adidas, the
college created “College Soccer Weekly,” a ten-segment hour-long weekly show with a format that includes highlights of games, rules discussions,
skill clinics and player interviews. It will be hosted by Mike Hogwood, debuts on The Prime Sports Network September 22,
and continues until the championships on December 3 and 5.

The Prime Sports Network reaches over 40 million households nationwide, so the potential audience for the shows is tremendous. Millen
said that since Davidson is one of the top soccer programs in the country, some of its games will surely
be included in the highlights segments. He also hopes that Davidson’s soccer coach, Charlie Slagle, will become a regular presenter
on the show.

Because of the strength of the ACC soccer market, some of the ACC championship games were added to the package.

The entire package was sold to Soccer USA Partners, a New York marketing firm, which is lining up sponsors for
all the broadcast elements. The NCAA is guaranteed $100,000 for the deal, and Davidson will earn a small share.

Millen said, "With the package we hope to develop such a significant TV audience that the championships will never leave
us."

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

SLAGLE vs KOHLENSTEIN

DAVIDSON vs UNCC
SEPT. 16, 7:00 pm

LIVE AT RICHARDSON FIELD
