TH E DAVIDSONIAN _NEWS | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1993

Ace Offers Insight — for Young Teachers
By Shaye Benton

Did you hug your Economics teacher in the stands when the Davidson soccer team made it to the Final Four?
Have you read alongside your English professor in the library, or ordered a coke at the Soda Shop for both
yourself and your cellular biology professor? The advantages of attending a liberal arts institution benefit us as students; yet these
same experiences are special in the eyes of our teachers as well. The “Davidson Experience” for the professor is unique
when compared, for example, to the “University of Florida Experience” in that a liberal arts environment provides the teacher with
an opportunity to know the students on a first-name basis, to listen to their ideas, and to sit with them
at a soccer game.

Dr. Tony Abbott, Professor of English, reflects on the small college teaching environment in two chapters he contributed to a
recent book entitled The Arts and Politics of Teaching: A Practical Guide for the Beginning Professor. The book is one
of a series of three edited by a group from the University of Nebraska department of education. The purpose of
the books is to describe different aspects of the teaching profession and to serve as guides for new teachers or
those interested in this career. Abbott knows one of the editors, Keith W. Prichard, from graduate school at Harvard and
was asked to contribute to this first book as well as the second.

In his chapter “Teaching in a Small Liberal Arts College,” Abbott compares the expectations of the small college with those
of the large university and describes necessary skills needed by a young teacher. The priorities of the two types of
schools are different, as liberal arts colleges tend to minimize pressure to research and publish (which is necessary for success
at a university), and to stress that the student comes first. Abbott’s second chapter provides useful information for a new
teacher in organizing a thorough, realistic, and interesting course. Abbott asked several other Davidson faculty members to review his chapter
and remarked that it “represents the thinking of many wise heads here at Davidson.”

Abbott believes that the high teaching standards of Davidson are reflected in his chapters, and that Davidson serves as a
kind of “national symbol.” Abbott said, “At Davidson teaching is so important... the best teachers are there because they are
interested particularly in the students and not scholarship.” Abbott writes that teachers in a liberal arts college “instruct students not
only in academic skills but in qualities of mind and heart and humane values.” In order to accomplish these goals,
the teacher must concentrate on the student foremost.

So the next time you’re having class in your psychology teacher’s den, or sitting by your Roman architecture professor at
a Spring baseball game, think about the experience as being memorable for both parties; our teachers are getting as much
out of their “Davidson Experience” as we are.

Student Legislature Gearing Up for 56th Annual Session
By Anni Kirkland

The North Carolina Student Legislature has met every year for the last fifty-five years in the Old State Capital Building
in Raleigh to debate legislation written by its members. The completely student-run organization seeks to educate college students in the
legislative process through a hands-on experience of writing and debating legislation. Over the years, NCSL has passed legislation privatizing the
prisons of N.C., reformed the health care system, abolished the electoral college, passed the motor-voter bill, and most recently, granted
civil rights to homosexuals. All measures passed by the students are then sent on to state and national representatives to
inform them of students’ views.

Throughout the rich history of the oldest student legislature in the country, the Annual Session has been the pivotal and
most anticipated event. Delegations from about twenty colleges state-wide will convene from March 24-28 as the House of Representatives and
the Senate, complete with bill committees, Executive Officers, clerks, and sergeants-at-arms. During their stay in Raleigh, delegates will meet the
members of the North Carolina State Legislature in a Legislative Reception in the Capital Building, as well as hear addresses
from prominent politicians in the state. Any undergraduate in the state may participate - in fact, the organization is actively
recruiting new members and schools all the time.

This year, the Davidson Delegation is preparing for what promises to beAn unforgettable session... Davidson will be represented by Anni
Kirkland ’95 as Speaker Pro See "NCSL" on page 3.

Thursday: Mug Nite $1.50 Shooter Specials Asheville 10% Faculty and Extra Exam Periods and a Future Easter Break.

By Jennifer Humphrey

Beginning this semester, students now have six days (eleven periods) instead of the previous five days (ten periods) to take
their self-scheduled exams. This addition came after the SGA Council on Academic Affairs sent a letter to the Faculty Executive
Committee (FEC) expressing the general sentiment that five days was too brief a period that not only caused more stress
but also overcrowding in Chambers. The FEC finalized the 1994-95 schedule over the break and also included another day with
one more exam period to the already approved calendars for this Spring and next year. The faculty then approved this
change.

An additional exam day means that the last day of exams this spring will be on Wednesday, May 12. Next
year, the last day of exams will be Thursday, December 23 in the Fall and Wednesday, May 18 in the
Spring. Part of the reason that next year’s semesters end later than this year is due to the fact that
the FEC and faculty wish to start later in August.

The faculty also approved the calendar for the 1994-95 school year. Classes begin on August 29 and the last day
of exams is December 22. There are also two breaks in the Spring. The faculty approved a long weekend coinciding
with Easter (Easter Monday and the following Tuesday are holidays) as well as the regular week-long spring break. This new
Easter break will not go into effect until the Spring of 1995.

Davidson Ambassadors Name Volunteers, Need Help in March

By Sally Stone

Davidson Ambassadors needs your help. On Saturday, March 27, Davidson College and the Office of Admissions are hosting Decision Davidson.
All accepted applicants for the Class of ‘97 will be invited to visit Davidson on this date. Be prepared to
hear more on how you can help organize this day of activities and introduction to the Davidson community.

Last week, Davidson Ambassadors welcomed twenty-four new student volunteers to its roster. These students were selected as new tour guides
beginning this semester and for the fall of 1993. Those chosen were: Bo Bartholomew, Cynthia Castle, Amy Hawfield, Roberta Stolpen,
Meg Miller, Isaac Squyers, Anna Kemp, Shannon Lowrance, Allison Wright, Peter Varney, Courtney Cooper, Julie Khalikov, Tara Pyne, Heather Crouse,
and Chris Knox. Also selected were: Missy Graves, Whitney Simpson, Christine Roberts, Kristina Nesney, Jennifer Tracy, Jenny Rettoch, Margaret Ann
Sheu, and Margaret McCleod.

Davidson Ambassadors is the student volunteer organization of Davidson admissions. Under its auspices are fall tour guides, letter writing to
applicants, hosting prospective students, high school visitations, Discover Davidson (fall), and Decision Davidson (spring). Students interested in volunteering are welcome
and should contact the Office of Admissions.

Seniors Choose Class Gift

This past Monday and Tuesday, the seniors chose as their class gift a sculpture for the new Visual Arts Center.
Seniors voted for the sculpture in a run-off election with the gift of a Community Service Endowment. The tentative plan
for the project includes raising $50,000 (the monetary goal of past Senior gifts) and holding a national competition for the
commission of the sculpture. The piece and the artist will be chosen by a committee composed of faculty and Class
of 1993 representatives. The 1993 Senior Class Gift Committee hopes to have the sculpture installed on the grounds of the
new Visual Arts Center at the Class of 1993's fifth-year reunion.

Duvibeoniah Fever...Catch It!!!

AFTER INVENTORY ALL WINTER APPAREL FOR MEN AND WOMEN REDUCED

HOWARD WOLF APPAREL SALE 40% TO 75% OFF

ALL BOSTONIANS & ROCKPORT SHOES FOR WOMEN NOW 1/2 PRICE 25% OFF

Merchant of Fashion and Quality Apparel for MEN and WOMEN

Phones (704): 664-4711, 663-3701

John Mack & Son 9am til 6pm Mon. thru Fri. Sat. til 5pm 128 North Main St., Downtown Mooresville

RAINBOW DELI

Take off with Rainbow Deli, your home base for Fresh Fish and Steaks. Lunch, Dinner, and drink specials daily. Weekend
live entertainment.

10% OFF ENTIRE TICKET (excluding alcohol) DINE IN ONLY - FOUR CONVENIENT LOCATIONS

Daily Drink Specials

Lake Norman 8301 Magnolia Estates Dr. Cornelius, NC (704) 896-0091

Arboretum Shopping Center and Town Center Plaza Charlotte

Friday & Saturday: Live Entertainment
