10 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS . MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1993

Stressed? Bored? Road trips may be the solution to your problems

What did I do last weekend? I piled into a van with seven other people and drove about nine hours to Baltimore to see my first Major League Baseball game. Why? Because it was fun.

When I was in Wurzburg, Germany last spring, I remember discussing with several students from Davidson what we missed about America and what we would immediately see, do, and eat upon arrival. Several of my friends envisioned how much fun it would be to take a road trip once we were back in America. Since two of the guys involved in the conversation were from Baltimore, they suggested that we pilgrimage to Camden Yards to see an Orioles game.

Since that sunny day in May, I had never really given that conversation much thought...until two weeks ago, when they reminded me they had bought eight tickets, and I was expected to accompany them. I suddenly realized how different my “Davidson mentality” is in comparison to my “Europe travel mentality.” Since we had initiated the plans while I was still very accustomed to traveling, it seemed very logical and natural to travel on the weekends. I have to admit, though, that last week I felt hesitant and apprehensive about the trip. Several thoughts started bouncing around in my brain: I have a paper due Monday, 300 pages of reading, and I know I'll be literally attacking my alarm clock next week when I hear that annoying morning greeting. Despite my anxieties, my curiosity and interest in the new and exciting conquered my feelings that I should stay at Davidson.

I won’t bore you and write a travel log of my trip, but I would like to share a few amusing anecdotes. To begin with, the oversized white Ford beauty of a van was not exactly overloaded with modern technology. In fact, it came off the line as I was being delivered in the hospital — 1972! Two interesting tidbits about the van: (1) though we left all the windows open during the entire trip, the gas leak in the floor created a small amount of tension and fear for the passengers that we might asphyxiate, and (2) since there were no seats in this vehicle, we had to improvise and recline on sofa cushions.

So far, I bet a lot of you are cringing at our travel conditions. In reality, it was hilarious. I felt like I was participating in a nine-hour mobile party. Have you ever seen people trying to dance when they can only stand halfway up? (Come find me if you’d like to see the proof on film).

Unfortunately, our trip was delayed due to a very innocent blunder our driver made. You see, though Steve is from Baltimore and has driven on this interstate many times, somehow, after we stopped for a break, he entered the highway going southbound, and didn’t realize his mistake until he saw a sign welcoming us back to N.C.!!!! A couple of hours later I had dozed off and was awakened by the screams of little kids chasing us and trying to tear our Orioles decorations off the van. I’m still not exactly sure what we were doing in this random neighborhood in Virginia, but my deduction is that, yet again, someone made a wrong turn. When we finally arrived in Baltimore, Tim Sobon decided to hop out at a red light and dance in the street to display his pleasure that we had arrived safely.

That night we had an incredible feast: “All You Can Eat” Maryland steamed crabs, which like D.J. had claimed, are worth the road trip alone. One thing I learned last year in Europe is how many interesting people I could meet if I would just make a little effort to initiate a conversation. Everyone seems to have a story worth hearing. For instance, we met 60-year-old Bill, at our outside restaurant, who showed me how he can rip off the legs and strip open a crab in 30 seconds. (It took me at least 2 hours to accomplish what he could in 12 minutes)!

At Camden Yards, I ended up literally bumping into a friend from home who I hadn’t seen in 2 years. He was going to a special party, where one needed a ticket to enter and partake in the free food and drink. I then proceeded to sweet talk Karl (the ticket taker) into letting us sneak in, so that I could visit with my friend. After finding out that I was from Kentucky, Karl...

Don't settle for comfortably numb

Faller continued from page 8

my very soul. At least psychiatrist Peter D. Kramer, a staunch defender of Prozac, wouldn’t seem to mind. I stole the following quote from Newsweek: “When one pill at breakfast makes you a new person,” writes Kramer, “it’s difficult to resist the...visceral certainty that who people are is largely biologically determined.” To this, I answer with a hearty flatulency of, “So what?” I don’t see the idea that I’m “biologically determined” by my parts (which is a strange paradox) as a valid reason to nuke my neurocortex. Never mind that I have learned so much from my struggles, or never mind that there is so much reason to feel bad about our modern world. It has been decided by our heroes and gods that in our contemporary society the purpose of life is to be happy. As far as I can tell, that excludes love, remorse, melancholy, and many other of our muses.

I owe an old friend who committed suicide, a Leon Solomon, many thanks for the following adage: “Life is not a joke.”

College is the time for exploring your faith

Faith continued from page 8

belief hold up to some scrutiny? If what we hear in the classroom makes us doubt, what will happen when we leave Davidson and life shoves those contradictions at us without explanation? How will we fare then? An open mind and an open heart are the best avenues to a strong spirit. I can recall so many conversations I’ve had, standing with folded arms and closed ears, not even willing to acknowledge even the possibility of my opponent’s beliefs having any truth. But in a...Time of real despair, I began to listen hard to what people, professors, and students alike, had to say about other religions, or the lack thereof. Instead of diving deeper into the turmoil of faithless floundering, I emerged with direction and conviction, centered on what I know is the right path for me. That was my first two years. With my time left, I intend to adhere to that path and to help others stay on theirs. Moulding my faith has, I’ve discovered, been the essence of my education. I’ll go about my studies and complete my major (hopefully) like everyone else, but I’ll leave here with something much more important than just knowledge. What I’ll leave here with will sustain me forever, will help me when my four years of facts leave me stranded. Davidson provides us with many opportunities, but the most important, I think, is the chance to find out who we really are, and where we stand in the universal scheme of things. Once we know that, the rest is easy.

Told of a friend of his who is serving 15 years in the Lexington Federal Penitentiary for robbing a bank. Anyway, the game was really enjoyable, and Larry, the very elderly, helpful ticket man for our section was tickled when we were displayed waving our cheesy ESPN banner on the tremendous fifty-foot-wide scoreboard screen. I think our enthusiastic behavior during the game made his evening. Except for the fact that I was pretty tired, the ride home Sunday night was also a lot of fun. Throughout the night, I tried to block out the music and catch a few hours of sleep. I remember the driver questioning in alarm whether large amounts of steam should be escaping from the engine. We exited, and somehow I stumbled out of the van at 4:00 a.m. at a gas station while the engine cooled down. I remember hearing a very rough-looking woman police officer yell, “Is dat a ‘flamen?” At around 8:30 a.m. I awoke and saw people bouncing and grooving to the great sounds of Phish. I knew why the adrenaline had already started to flow quickly through their veins—we were almost home and we all had Monday morning classes to attend. Boy, have I been tired today; but I still think it was worth it. What I’m trying to say is that Davidson can be a lot of fun, but it is also very refreshing to get away. My first two years of Davidson seem to blur together. All I can seem to remember are classes and lots of beer at Patterson Court. I know the court is a great place to see people and socialize, but when that begins to lose some appeal, hop in a car, and explore something interesting in the area. Last weekend I visited a city I had never been to before, bonded with my friends, met many interesting people, and enjoyed myself as much as any trip I took last year in Europe. If you’re discontent or bored, you really don’t have an excuse. Get out and do something, and discover the wealth and interesting sights our country has to offer.

"Mr. Charlie" is an old term

Racism continued from page 8

per outwitted the rich landowner, boss, or husband. The essence of the story rests on the fact that the overlord does not even know that he has been made a fool of. "One important result of this indirect mode of operation is that members of the dominant group are denied an essential part of life—the opportunity to acquire self-understanding through knowing their impact on others. "They are thus deprived of ‘consensual validation,’ feedback, and a chance to correct their actions and expressions. "Put simply, subordinates won’t tell. For the same reasons, the dominant group is deprived also of valid knowledge about the subordinates.” The above explains our last article a little better. The term Mr. Charlie has been in existence for Goddess knows how long, whites just have not heard it. But everyone has heard the word nigger. And as for experience, until the Davidson postmaster, certain students, and staff call you a nigger to your face, you will never know our experience.

Living in the Inverse continued from page 7

the words “tired” and “starving.” Our ascension to new paradigms leaves others with less than a pair o’ dimes. We whine about parking spaces while they’re struggling for sleeping spaces. We rest on padded couches as they’re cowering in awkward crouches. They have spent significant portions of their lives (for what portion is insignificant) in pursuit of items and concepts we consider trivial. Oops, I hope I’m not disturbing your comfort! Even if we do manage to pry our eyelids open, we are generally incapable of empathy. We may get a knot in our stomach, but we wake up the next morning fully recovered. This is why the Inverse Committee invites you to join us November 7 for a very good (if not always pleasant) night. We will be spending the night acknowledging the plight of the homeless and globally impoverished. We will be sleeping in front of Chambers, not in an alley. We will be surrounded by friends, not strangers. We’ll be safe and clothed, too, but more importantly, we will be much closer comfort zone to the denial of luxuries experienced by impoverished persons, and thereby, though we can’t understand, we’ll be forced to recognize their struggles. The homeless aren’t just lazy bums, but rather the unfortunate by-products of an impersonal societal machine. If every action has an equal and opposite reaction, then perhaps we can consider that the same force which has propelled us toward ease has knocked these families and individuals gloomward. On November 7 we will initiate discussions and bring presentations and introduce individuals who don’t have the option of returning to pre-arranged housing on November 8. We don’t pretend to solve problems by spending the night on a well-kept lawn, but we hope we are provoking thought, compassion, and ultimately active solutions. I’m guessing you’re still pretty cozy, though, right? If you are the slightest bit grateful for your comfort, meet behind the steps of Chambers.

Sincerely,
Ethan McCutcheon '97

Write for Opinions. Call -6178