THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1993

Story of Rape Unconfirmed
Ass’t. Dean of Students Writes Letter to End Rumors
By Alice Felmlee

For the past few weeks, stories of an attempted rape on campus have been the talk of students and faculty. These discussions have occurred just as the school began to honor student requests for more campus lighting. This rape, thought to have occurred either between the Chambers Building and Sentelle Residence Hall or behind Little Library, is now believed to be an unfounded rumor.

After lengthy discussions with campus police, grounds personnel, community members, and students, the Dean of Students Office has been unable to locate any evidence confirming or supporting the assault. In a letter addressed to the Davidson community, Assistant Dean of Students, Dr. Leslie Marsicano, stated, “As of now we have no specific information as to day, time, location, victim, or possible witnesses.” She urges, however, that there is still great concern over the rumors and that the case is not considered closed.

Any victims of a recent assault or individuals with information regarding this case are asked to speak with someone in the Dean of Student’s Office. In no way will they be forced to press charges; yet immediate medical care, emotional support, and academic relief are available.

"Women at Davidson are subject to a double bind. No one wants to violate confidentiality on these issues but we need to know when these things happen so more women can protect themselves," said senior Adriana Tavernise, who is an active member of Women's Issues committees.

All members of the Davidson family are reminded to take precautions in protecting themselves and their property. While the campus is safe compared to larger, more metropolitan universities, it is not foreign to crime. Locking cars and bedroom doors, calling the escort service, walking with friends, and remaining in well-lit areas may protect you in the future.

New Buildings
Continued from page 1

They are looking at this area in order to “keep the sciences close to each other.” The construction of a new Life Sciences building would enable the college to upgrade the Dana Science Building for Physics. Kelton said that he hopes Mathematics would then be able to move into Dana.

Kelton said that his committee is also carefully watching the gradual student population growth of the college. Davidson currently plans to have 1,600 students enrolled by 2000. Kelton said that “perhaps as early as 1994-’95, we might need one new dormitory.” He added that such a new dorm is “certainly likely” to be an apartment-style building.

There are also several proposals for a new track to replace the Heath Whittle Track, which was removed from Richardson Field a few years ago to make room for an expanded area for soccer. Kelton said that his committee has yet to...

Photo courtesy of the Union Board
Merrill Earnest, president of the Union Board, hopes to redefine the role of the Union to appeal to...a broader group of students.

- Board Continued from page 1 -

dent to write in any suggestions or concerns so that students can be best represented. The PCC, the SGA, and the Union are planning to work in conjunction to sponsor a campus-wide event this spring. Earnest suggested a possible concert at the lake campus but no definite plans have been made. The combined efforts could potentially increase the sense of community on campus by creating an event which involves the entire student body as well as faculty and administrators.

“The Union has quality programming demonstrated by the overcrowded 900 room for the Tibetan monks,” said Earnest. “An audience of one third students, one third faculty, and one third community is ideal.”

The newly selected Union Board should be more effective because some committees were combined or eliminated. By co-sponsoring events, committees can make better use of funds to increase the quality of programming. Also, the Outpost offers a new location to provide supplementary social options to Patterson Court.

“I hope to see the Union expand to meet the needs of more students. This is definitely an exciting time to be involved with the Union,” said Phoebe Dean, Union Board Publicity Artist and Member at Large.

Other new board position appointments include the following: Stacey Carter-Secretary/Historian, Jimmy Jackson-Artists Series, Jason Bertsch-Campus Forum, Kelly Cunningham-Concerts, Suneya Gupta-Cultural Events, Alexia Gregory-Davidson Outdoors, Rosie Molinary-F-Crew/Member at Large, Molly Johnson-Gallery, Katrina O’Neal-International, Nat May-Intimate Performances, Bailey Foster-Literary Arts, Joanna Boyd-Publicity, Jennifer Humphrey-Speakers, Andy Cole-Video/DCTV, Kristin Garris and Mary Randolph-Women’s Issues, Shaye Benton-900 Room, Jenny Scarborough and Morgan Perry-Members at Large.

Kelton said that his committee is concerned about the quality of performance spaces on campus. He said, “Love Auditorium does not meet all the [performance] needs of Davidson. We are looking to what we can do to improve that.” Kelton said that when all of these buildings might be built depends on when the college can get the money needed for such undertakings.

Kelton’s committee is also designing a Campus Master Plan which will provide basic principles to operate on in the future. This plan is in the drafting stages, but should be in document form by next fall. It will establish guidelines and standards about building locations for the future of the college. It will therefore provide only basic principles and ideas from which the college should operate, but will not be a concrete or specific map of what the college will look like in the next decade.

RAINBOW DELI Wilson Room. Take off with Rainbow Deli, your home base for Fresh Fish and Steaks. Lunch, Dinner and drink specials daily. Weekend live entertainment. Thursday: Mug Nite $1.50. Friday & Saturday: 10% OFF ENTIRE TICKET (excluding alcohol) DINE IN ONLY - FOUR CONVENIENT LOCATIONS - Daily Drink Specials Charlotte: 1 Magnolia Estates Dr. Cornelius, NC. Arboretum Shopping Center Town Center Plaza (704) 896-0091