6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The week in Washington

Clinton expresses American fears at U.N.
By Brett Marston

President Clinton addressed the United Nations General Assembly for the first time and made it clear that while he does not wish to pursue isolationist policies, his primary concern lies with the U.S. economy. Clinton touched on many issues during his 45-minute speech, including the nonproliferation of biological, chemical, and nuclear weapons, reform of the U.N., trade controls, and global environmental protection policies. He also sent a clear warning to the U.N. that the U.S. is becoming increasingly cautious about the U.N.’s role in the post-Cold War world. “If the American people are to say yes to U.N. peacekeeping,” he declared, “the United Nations must know when to say no.”

In a news conference after his speech, Clinton also expressed U.S. reserve about an imminent peacekeeping mission in Bosnia, according to the New York Times. The U.S. agreed earlier this year to provide half of the 50,000 troops which NATO plans to send to the Balkans within the next few months. Top NATO officials have emphasized that a NATO mission in Bosnia must be kept separate from the current U.N. mission there. One of the conditions which Clinton says must be met before the U.S. will commit troops to a mission to Bosnia is a “clear timetable for the first review and ultimately for the right to terminate American involvement.” Critics say that such a stipulation is unrealistic and will only strengthen the determination of the warring factions in the region and doom the mission from the start.

Further, Clinton pledged that the U.S. would pay its $400 million in overdue bills to the U.N., but also expressed his concern that the U.S. is paying more than its fair share. “The assessment system has not been changed since 1973,” he said, “and everyone in our country knows that our percentage of the world’s economic pie is not as great as it was then.”

U.S. Secretary of State War-

The Dean Rusk Program

Uganda: Crowning questions future of Kampala Regime
By Zik Joseph

To the surprise of many Ugandans, Prince Ronald Mutebi was crowned as the 43rd king of the Baganda at the coronation site in Budo, 10 miles west of Kampala. Uganda, a small, landlocked country in the eastern part of Africa, is undergoing recovery following 20 years of political strife and economic dilapidation.

Like many countries in Africa, Uganda did not escape the consequences of the hastily and untimely manner in which independence from colonial masters was attained. Events post the October 9th, 1962 independence date took a very unexpected and sour course. It began a turbulent political crisis in Uganda. Chiefly responsible for this was the Baganda, a tribe with the largest percentage of the 17 million populace of Uganda. Other major tribes in Uganda include the Basoga, Banyankole, Karamojong, Iteso, Acholi, Langi, Banyoro, and other small ones, each with their own language.

After the British declaration of Uganda as an autonomous nation, the Kabaka (king) Mutesa II of Buganda, the largest kingdom in Uganda, was elevated to the position of president of the country. However, conflicts between the Kabaka and the then Prime Minister of the country in 1966, Milton Obote, led to the ousting of the former, who went into exile in Britain where he died later. The abolition of the monarchy paved the way for an era of anarchy, as shown in the military coup of January 1971, led by General Idi Amin. He toppled President Obote, then on a presidential trip abroad.

1980 saw the return of Obote as the elected president until January 1986 when the government, led by Yoweri K. Museveni, took control of Kampala, the capital. The Museveni regime, being military, has continually faced opposition from all corners since its takeover. The latest blow came on July 31st, when the Baganda, after demands to the government, crowned ‘Ronnie’ as the successor of King Mutesa II. Although President Museveni says he “saw no harm” in the coronation and that Mutebi would only be a cultural leader, many fears have surfaced and left many concerned citizens wondering what fate could befall the nation that Winston Churchill once called “the pearl of Africa.”

On the other side, Museveni, in pursuit of popularity from the majority tribe, had no alternative other than to give in to the demands of the Baganda people who desperately wanted to see the return of the old monarchical system. Many questions remain. Will the new king have a share in the political arena of the country? If so, how much influence would he have in the military regime? Worse still, it cannot be forgotten that Uganda once consisted of other different kingdoms such asBusoga, Ankole, Bunyoro, and Toro. Would these, not wanting to be left out, also demand to be restored? Although there is divided opinion on the restoration of the Buganda monarchy among the civilian community, much of the pressure has been targeted toward the Kampala regime, which is at the verge of disintegrating. With the upcoming elections next year, which would for the first time in two decades see Uganda return to civilian rule, it can only be hoped that the latest coronation events would not be another stumbling block to the recovery process.

Christopher described the three “pillars” of U.S. foreign policy in a speech earlier this year: “First, building American prosperity. Second, modernizing American armed forces. And third, promoting democracy abroad.” Clinton’s remarks on Monday remained mostly consistent with this avowed policy. The U.N. needs to modernize and increase its peacekeeping ability, but the U.S. is going to be more cost-conscious in the future. Later last week, leaders from other major nations echoed Clinton’s concerns. These doubts about the U.N.’s role in the world come at a time of increasing economic difficulty for the U.N. itself. Speakers at the United Nations building in New York need to finish their presentations promptly at six o’clock, because the U.N. cannot afford to keep its lights on after that hour, the New York Times reports.

Also last week, Congress passed a non-binding resolution urging Clinton to ask Congress for approval of continued American military presence in Somalia. U.N. Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali has repeatedly claimed that the U.N. mission in Somalia will fall apart if the U.S. decides to withdraw its troops. The Administration has assured Mr. Ghali that U.S. troops will remain in Somalia, although in debates in Congress over the aforementioned resolution many lawmakers appealed to President Clinton to “bring our troops home.”

MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1993

ELSEWHERE

Perspective NOTES

Surviving in the face of war

“Croatia is not to be compared with Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor Zagreb with Sarajevo, but it is still a twilight zone where anything might happen, and one survives only by developing a specific kind of ambivalent attitude to the atmosphere, not wholly reflective of war but not reflective of peace either. In spite of the nice European face of this city, people have disappeared during the night... If you leave your apartment empty for a couple of weeks, you might find refugees there upon your return... All kinds of black market activities flourish, as well as arms- and drug-smuggling... People are getting poorer and poorer, but still red, yellow, and green traffic lights change regularly at the crossroads. The Dior and Benetton shops are open, street cars are running, and there is fresh bread to buy every morning. Perhaps all this sounds a bit like life in New York, except that here one cannot choose to live on an Upper East Side, ignoring the war. There is no Upper East Side, and the war is happening to everyone in one way or another, changing everyone’s view of life, values, morale, emotions... breaking them in two.” 
-from “Letter from Croatia” by Slavenka Drakulic in the Summer, 1993 edition of Partisan Review.

Miracles and Baseball

“If baseball does not get its act together, Congress may try to ‘help.’ And that will be bad for almost everyone. In the long run, baseball deserves its immunity from the anti-trust laws... The best way for owners to show Congress they can clean up their act is to reinstate a strong, independent commissioner. They’ve had 384 days in which to do so. I have been told many times that peace and prosperity in baseball were about as likely as seeing the Prime Minister of Israel and the leader of the P.L.O. shake hands. Could we all not hope for another miracle? Remember the ’51 Giants.” 
-from “Baseball without me” by former Commissioner Fay Vincent in the September 26th editorial pages of the New York Times.

WE'RE NOT YOUR TYPICAL BUTTON-DOWN, PIN-STRIPE BANK.

In these fickle financial times, banks that think in the past often get left there. Today, the financial organizations that thrive are those with the foresight to anticipate change and the ability to act rapidly. As the fourth-largest and one of the most financially aggressive banks in the country, NationsBank is just such a financial organization. And you can play a highly visible leading role. With our proven history of keeping our fingers on the industry's pulse, you'll be working in a very dynamic environment with other hands-on, street-smart professionals. Although some may look like bankers, they definitely don’t think like bankers, which is the way it should be. If you're about to graduate, here's how to learn more about NationsBank:

Commercial Services

DROP DATE
Wednesday, October 13, 1993

INTERVIEWS
Wednesday, October 27, 1993

NationsBank ©NationsBank Corporation 1993