Up a Davidsonian

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXV MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1993 NUMBER 12

Photo courtesy of College Relations
Ryburn in front of New Building

D. Sr. apartment named in honor of Ryburn '38

By Brad Griffin from The Campus Chronicle

Sam Ryburn ’38 enrolled at Davidson in the middle of the Great Depression. “I only knew on Sunday that I
was going to be able to enroll on Monday,” Ryburn recalls. “My mother just gritted her teeth and decided to
send me anyway—which was a good thing. I had to work to put myself through school—which was a good thing,
too, I expect. Although it didn’t seem so at the time.”

Fifty-five years later, Ryburn reflects on the years he spent at Davidson with pleasant memories. He and his wife, Frances,
have recently made a very generous, undesignated gift to the school through a charitable gift annuity.

After graduating from Davidson, Ryburn went to work for The Herald Press, a commercial printing company in Charlotte. In 1946
he became one of the founders of Package Products, an outgrowth of The Herald Press, which later became Engraph, Inc.
He stayed with Engraph for over 40 years and retired as the vice president of the company.

When Engraph was purchased by Sonoco, Inc. in October, the Ryburns found themselves the recipients of a significant windfall. They
entirely avoided hefty capital gains taxes by funding a charitable gift annuity, arranged through Davidson’s Office of Planned Giving. “With
the sell-out of Engraph to Sonoco, I had to move quickly or be stuck with a terrific tax burden. I
had originally planned to avoid capital gains taxes altogether by dying and leaving the money in my will,” quips Ryburn,
“but this seemed like a better idea.”

Under the terms of the annuity agreement, the college will manage the annuity principal. “In my estimation, Davidson has a
better track record at managing money than the federal government has,” adds Ryburn with a wry smile. The Ryburns will
receive guaranteed annuity payments from the college for the rest of their lives; the college will receive the charitable remainder.

See Ryburn on page 2

20,854 attend as Final Four mania hits Davidson

Virginia takes third straight

By Katherine Hash

Davidson’s overwhelmingly successful second effort as the host of the NCAA Division I Men’s Soccer Championship should confirm its claim
as America’s college soccer capital. A record 20,854 visitors flooded into Davidson for the weekend to see the Virginia Cavaliers
defend their title against Princeton, Cal State Fullerton, and South Carolina in soccer’s final four.

Last year Davidson hosted 8,250 spectators for the first NCAA soccer championship sell-out. This year extra bleachers were added to
raise the seating capacity to accommodate the 10,442 ticket holders in the sell-out crowds expected at each of the three
final games. The hard-to-come-by tickets were distributed on a first-come, first-serve basis. Most of the 1,000 tickets sold to Davidson
students, who showed great support for the event even though the Wildcats were not represented this year, were sold before
the school year even started. 375 tickets were reserved for each of the schools whose teams qualified with some additional
tickets made available to those schools, especially South Carolina, who wanted them.

This surprising sell-out ability has led to Davidson’s selection as next year’s Championship host and to her position as a
top contender for the 1995 and 1996 games. Davidson’s greatest attractions are its small size and avid soccer fans. The
campus of 1,500 and town of 4,000 have proven themselves willing and able to devote their full attention to the
championship which is the biggest event in the community all year. There is hope and speculation that Davidson may become
the permanent site of the Championships, but there are questions about Davidson’s ability to accommodate the growing event. Davidson will
stretch its seating to the maximum capacity of 12,000 next year—some believe that asAs many as 25,000 tickets could be
sold for the 1996 finals. The small town may also have problems finding parking for its numerous visitors. Shuttle buses
ran between the campus and distant parking sites both this year and last in efforts to ease the park-

See NCAA on page 3

An extended campus family
By Towner Blackstock

In the past few months, I’ve grown disenchanted with my fellow students and their knowledge of seemingly vital Davidson trivia.
It all started with the controversy over the new directory. Many people admitted ignorance about the identity of Sam Spencer,
the man our directory-cover co-ed speaks to. Then the Davidsonian printed a letter, ostensibly from an alumnus, signed “Peter Stuart
Ney.” The lack of an editor’s note explaining the departure from Davidsonian policy of not printing anonymous letters suggested that
our editors did not realize that Ney, who’s been dead nearly 150 years, obviously didn’t write the letter.

While I might cite other examples, I understand that Spencer and Ney aren’t the most important people on your minds
with finals approaching. But in the inevitable bursts of procrastination we all stand guilty of, take a moment to become
a bit more aware of our Davidson Family, starting with Sam Spencer.

In this twentieth year of coeducation at Davidson, the college recognizes Dr. Samuel Reid Spencer, Jr. ‘40 as the central
harbinger of coeducation. As an undergraduate, he served as student body president, and from the year following his graduation until
1943, served the campus ROTC program as a lieutenant. For a period of four

Photo by Mike Wang
Virginia forward Nate Friends takes the ball to the goal in the semifinal match Friday at Richardson Field. Friends scored
all five of Virginia's goals in the Final Four, including a hat trick against Princeton. His efforts led the Wahoos
to their third straight national title. See pages 14 & 15.

Town celebrates Christmas a little early
By Court McBryde

The Downtown Davidson Organization sponsored Christmas in Davidson for the fifth year. Every night, 6:30-9 p.m., from December 1-3, Santa
and carolers strolled the streets of Davidson. The festivities began with opening ceremonies on the Village Green. Davidson College’s Brass
Ensemble harmonized followed by the lighting of the town Christmas tree and the arrival of Santa by fire truck. Horse
and carriage rides were available each night. Davidson College basketball players could be found sipping hot chocolate and signing autographs
at the Soda Shop.

The stores, museums, restaurants, and businesses hosted a variety of Christmas activities ranging from free cappuccino at Ben and Jerry’s
to tree decorating and apple cider at Backstreet Cafe. Friday concluded Christmas in Davidson. A bluegrass band played at Anna’s
Antiques. Dance Davidson presented a preview of the Nutcracker Christmas ballet. Free apple cider, cookies, and hot chocolate could be
found at most of the stores.

Event Chair Irene Blackwell commented that the events this year were great. “There has been a great deal of community
involvement and students have come out to participate too,” Blackwell said. “There is a unique feeling of Christmas in Davidson.
It is such a small town, a lot of people are in the streets, and there is so much to
do.” Blackwell explained how this year’s Christmas celebration fell at the perfect time and was well coordinated with other events.
Students were not in exams and the NCAA Soccer Tournament brought fans from all over the region to the celebration.
Blackwell said the Christmas in Davidson festivities are a special time for everyone and will continue to be a tradition.

THIS WEEK
NEWS: Dave Stewart thinks mountain biking is fun! Page 4.
OPINIONS: Trials and tribulations of Nathan's apartment inspections. Page 13.
SPORTS: Men's hoops gets off to a big start. Page 14.
ARTS: Rachel loves exploring the origins of the blues. Page 14. Portrait of an artist: senior Josh Harris. Page 14.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
