4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1993

Health and fitness

Marathon distance adds motivation and meaning to running

By Christy Block

To run a marathon is, through the eyes of the average onlooker, an act of sheer lunacy. Ask those running what they think, and they’ll tend to agree, “but that’s the fun of it.” When asked why she’d even consider trying to run 26.2 miles, Senior Bailey Foster, who is training for the Savannah Marathon in February, replied, “It gives me something to work toward during my runs, and it has nothing to do with school.” Besides being a great stress release, “the challenge of it” gives it a certain glamour, as Heather Crouse explains.

The attraction of the marathon appears to be a strange and mysterious thing to those who don’t run at all, and perhaps the marathon cannot even be appreciated by those who have not attempted such a feat. The challenge of the marathon is not merely a question of strength, nor is it a question of speed. The marathon’s challenge lies in its demand for a certain lifestyle and a perfected form of training; if the runner does not train properly for a race of this caliber, he or she will hit what runners refer to as “The Wall” and not successfully get past it without stopping the race.

After running 15-20 miles the body runs out of carbohydrates to burn for energy, and so must take from its stored energy: fat. As a result of this change, the runner’s energy level decreases because fat does not burn as quickly as glucose/carbohydrates. The body does its own version of a downshift, and the runner, if not trained to mentally conquer the lower energy output of “The Wall,” will not finish the race despite how good his or her physical form.

In Bob Glover and Pete Schuder’s Competitive Runner’s Handbook, they explain the draw of the marathon: “It symbolizes the peak of physical and mental performance. Once you finish a marathon, you are a real runner.”

Senior Jenny Satterfield is a veteran of the marathon run, and is presently training for the Charlotte Marathon in January, which happens to be the fourth most difficult in the nation. When asked if her involvement with marathon running has changed her, Jenny answered: “It shapes your life. It changes the way you look at things: you look at

Smoke clears: Union survey results in

By Susan Warren

Friday, September 17, 352 Davidson students, faculty, and employees filled out a questionnaire concerning smoking sections in the Union Cafe and in the Commons. Though the majority of the 1,000 surveys issued were not returned, those that were show insight into students’ feelings toward smoking and smokers. These surveys were distributed by the Dining Service due to complaints from non-smokers and President Kuykendall’s suggestion “that those who smoke make rea-

Record enrollment expected

Washington, D.C. (CPS)—The number of college students enrolled in public and private institutions is expected to reach a new high of 15 million this fall, Secretary of Education Richard Riley said in the annual “Back-to-School” forecast. The number of earned degrees that will be awarded this academic year is also expected to set records. According to the Department of Education estimates, 504,000 associate degrees will be awarded; 1.1 million bachelor’s degrees; 378,000 master’s degrees; 41,000 doctorates; and 75,000 professional degrees in medicine, theology, and law.

It is estimated that colleges and universities will spend about $198.1 billion in 1993-94, up 3 percent since 1992. In the past 10 years, higher education spending has climbed 53 percent. Average spending per full-time equivalent college student is forecast to reach $15,900, up 23 percent since 1983-84. Public college spending averages $13,400 per student; for private colleges spending averages $24,000.

Women dancing with women a no-no?

The University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, N.M. (CPS)—A country and western dance class instructor created a brouhaha by telling a University of New Mexico student that the school had a policy that women cannot dance with other women in the class. The class, which attracted many women, was offered by the physical education department for one credit with the intent to teach students how to dance in social situations, according to the Daily Lobo, the school newspaper.

The instructor, Jim Calvert, made the comment to graduate student Jill Cornell. He later said he did not intend to discriminate, but wanted to keep the ratio of men and women even so traditional roles could be practiced in the classroom. “I have no problem with ladies dancing with ladies,” Calvert told the newspaper. “But to avoid confusion, I’d rather have a leader stay a leader through the whole class. Leading is a job and following is a job. It gets confusing to switch backand forth.” Mandela offered honorary doctorate Gainesville, FL (CPS)—African National Congress founder Nelson Mandela may be offered an honorary doctoral degree by the University of Florida for his work in human rights in South Africa. There are some behind-the-scenes discussions on the matter, said Peter Schmidt, director of the “It’s in delicate negotiations right now. We haven’t heard yet,” Schmidt said. A formal invitation will be sent to Mandela if he is interested in accepting. Mandela was nominated by Schmidt and Distinguished Service Professor Carlton Davis a year ago, and negotiations began shortly thereafter. Mandela spent 27 years in prison. 

Reasonable efforts to minimize the annoyance caused to others.” The surveys grouped the participants into regular smokers, occasional smokers, and non-smokers. Each group was asked the following four questions:
* Do you feel you should be allowed the privilege of smoking in the dining facilities?
* Would you agree to a policy that does not allow smoking in any part of the dining area?
* Would you agree to a policy allowing smoking in designated areas only?
* Would you agree to a policy allowing smoking only outside the building?

In the Union Cafe and the Commons, most students who responded to the survey were non-smokers. They felt that smoking should be prohibited inside but allowed outside the building. The Cafe differed from the Commons in that the non-smokers would consent to designated non-smoking and smoking areas, while the Commons’ eaters were against smoking anywhere but outdoors. Of the respondents who do smoke, the majority felt they should be allowed to smoke indoors, in both the Cafe and the Commons. Carleton Pritchard, Director of Auxiliary Services, was in charge of this survey and describes the Commons’ results: “The survey strongly indicates that students, faculty, and staff concur in the notion that the Commons public areas be smoke-free areas.” Though the diners at the Cafe had a much more liberal view toward smokers, the majority felt that smokers should not be allowed the privilege of smoking in the facilities. A more detailed version of this survey’s results will be available later this week at both the Commons and the Union Cafe.

Fill this box! Write for news. Call Mandy. -6252

Food as energy, you take care of yourself and listen to your body like never before.” The challenge of the marathon is alluring for some, repulsive for others, but universally worthy of respect. Marathon training is full of possibilities for injury due to overtraining, not stretching properly, or in some cases not getting enough water or food for this type of physical stress. But apart from the dangers of uneducated training, marathon training gives the daily jog a distinguished flair. One needn’t be a talented athlete nor in superb physical form to train. All it takes is a time commitment and the desire to claim the status of “real running-hood,” and the long run becomes your own road less traveled.

Photo courtesy of Lauren Turner
Sophomore Lauren Turner finishes strong at last summer's Peachtree Road Race in Atlanta.

Ortmayer wins the CASE
CASE continued from page 1
He started his work with the case teaching method four years ago, after he received a fellowship from the Pew Foundation for Faculty Fellowship for Foreign Affairs based in Harvard. The fellows were supposed to look at case studies as a means of teaching. They were encouraged to write new case studies for use with undergraduates in order to keep courses fresh. The fellows share their case studies with the other teachers for use in the classroom. Ortmayer and his colleagues can see the direct application of their research, while other people’s research goes unnoticed. Ortmayer learned about the award two weeks ago at a faculty meeting, but the teachers were told not to say anything publicly until last Monday. CASE wanted to announce the award winners simultaneously in the other 46 states in which the award is given. From the state winners, CASE picks a national teacher of the year. Dr. Rosemary Tong, a philosophy professor, is the only Davidson College professor to have won the national award. Each year the campus nominates someone for the award. Then, the nominated professor and Robert Williams, the Dean of the Faculty, get letters of recommendation from students and alumni. Thus, Ortmayer was able to win the award because of the respect his students have for him.

Pitchers of Beer
WE DELIVER!!!
STUDENTS - Call us for all your party and food needs.
AVINO'S
We have beer, pizza, dinners, and sandwiches.
Our Prices Can't Be Beat!
Monday Special
Buy any item from our menu, get the 2nd one 1/2 price. (Excluding drinks & appetizers)
Wednesday Special
All U Can Eat Pizza
All ABC Permits -- TV in Bar
892-4794
I-77 Exit 30, Davidson • Sadler Square • M-F 11:30-10:00 • Sat 4:00-10:00
$4.50 $3.00