THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1993

Col. Bruce in Johnston Gym: eccentrics doomed

By Chris Hoveland ’93

There is probably no rock-and-roll band in America today with instrumental virtuosity like the Aquarium Rescue Unit. Their performance at
Johnston Gym on Thursday, fronted by the legendary yet obscure Col. Bruce Hampton, confirmed this suspicion. But a question kept
nagging at me: why can’t everybody like a band with this level of talent and musical creativity? Perhaps one only
needs a proper introduction.

An introduction to the eclecticism of Col. Bruce should begin with this advice: expect the unexpected. Right when you’re settling
into the blues, here comes some lightning bluegrass, a soulful jazz ballad, and then a you-can’t-really-categorize-it piece. But things you
can count on: a fired-up, skat-singing bassist who takes leads, a guitarist with licks from hell, a drummer who promises
to throw your dance step, and the goofiest bulldog of a singer to pull off a “Crazoid” solo he can’t
play.

When I first experienced the Colonel and friends, I was a sophomore at Davidson and had just assumed the responsibilities
of the Union’s Intimate Performance Committee with Peter Jackson. I walked away from that show frightened and quite sure that
as a guitarist I would never be able to play at that musical level even if I buried myself in
a closet to practice for a decade or so. But that night when I, with the sparkle of musical naivete
in my eye, asked the bassist how the band got their start, I was taken aback. The musicians of the
band had maintained successful careers in studio work, but bassist Oteil Burbridge recalled to me that, well, he hated music—he
had been playing radio advertisements and the like and at that point was about ready to put an end to
his bass. The drummer “Apt. Q258” told the bassist he needed to come check out Bruce Hampton because “he hates
music, too.” So the Aquarium Rescue Unit was born.

What kind of music, you ask? Jimmy Herring, the Fayetteville-native guitarist (who filled in for the jailed Dickey Betts of
the Allman Bros. Band one night this summer) told me about it after the show Thursday. He described it as
performance art: “[Apt. Q258] used to put his drums in a row with the bass or kick drum on one
end and toms on the other and in between he set up all kinds of bongos and congas and whatever
he had. He played them all running back and forth to each drum without ever losing the tempo. He and
Oteil would wear dresses and stuff, too. Man, they were out there.” Where they still are.

The Colonel’s history is a performance in itself. After a stint in the army, he entered the music business and
later cut a record with his group the Hampton Grease Band. This infamous album held the record of “least-selling” for
that label. The band eventually broke up and later the Col. found himself a job as a barking manager in
the World Wrestling Federation. That wasn’t for him either, so back to the acoustic drawing board. Hampton began the Unit
project with Burbridge and Apt. Q258, two guitarists, and a banjo player when the guitarist Herring sat in with the
band. Herring recalls, “The first night I sat in with them I really began to levitate.” When asked if they
played standards or music that they commonly knew, Herring replied, “No, it was completely boundless music, nothing pre-set. We were
just starting out, so when we hit something, it was really coincidental. But it was out of that [spirit] that
the first album [self-titled] came out.”

Matt Mundy, widely acclaimed as one of the greatest mandolin players, joined the band the day after Herring did. Mundy
left the band just recently (following the H.O.R.D.E. tour) for other pursuits. Herring explains, “Matt left to pursue acoustic music...
he was afraid that the music he loved was dying. Now he’s playing around Richmond and will move to Boone
soon. It was cool, but I miss him.” So did we. You can hear Mundy’s playing on Widespread Panic’s latest
release Everyday on “Pickin’ Up the Pieces.” Also absent from the Davidson set was Count Mbutu, a percussionist who teaches
at a music conservatory in Atlanta.

From this brief biography and without even hearing the band, I think readers would agree this band is no ordinary
one. Anyone who heard the show knows it. Let me make clear that while the Unit is certainly an oddity,
their music is sincere—rarely have I seen a band that tours as heavily as the Unit perform with so much
enthusiasm, energy, and taste. The Aquarium Rescue Unit is a band with the potential for legendary status while similarly doomed
for (as they undoubtedly know and perhaps thrive upon) obscurity.

The Colonel’s latest release Mirrors of Embarrassment, which I highly recommend, features several of the songs heard in the Davidson
set including “Shoeless Joe” and the ballad “Trondossa.” The album also features special guests John Popper of Blues Traveler and
banjoist Bela Fleck. Pick up a copy and keep it alive.

Editors' Note: Upon request of the editor, Chris Hoveland, ’93, agreed to contribute this article. The editors appreciate his contribution.

1992-93 Report on Disciplinary Action sanctions.

SUMMARY OF CHARGES: Section VI: AlcoholicHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Beverages Section VII: Drugs Section X: Residence Hall Life

-Judicial Committee-

The Judicial Committee, composed of three student members, a faculty member, and a member from the Dean's staff, heard 55
cases during the academic year 1992-93. In each case, the defendant admitted to violating one or more sections of the
Code of Responsibility. Defendants were invited to appear before the committee or to submit a written statement presenting mitigating circumstances.
The committee considered these circumstances, previous citizenship record, and the nature and severity of the offense before levying sanctions. Sanctions
included one or more of the following: required counseling, service hours, probation, fines, restitution, the addition of points to the
randomly assigned housing lottery number, and eviction from campus housing. Two students were evicted from the residence halls for the
academic year 1993-94 for failing to complete their assigned sanctions. Six students appeared before the committee two or more times.

Section I: Academic Responsibility (Includes the use of false ID)
Section IV: Misconduct which affects the rights of others (Includes hazing, harassment, and assault)
Section V: Misconduct which affects the property of others (Includes damage, joyrides, throwing cans, etc.)
(In addition to other Code of Responsibility violations)
Section IX: Response to campus security officers (Includes excessive noise in dormitory)

-Alcohol Enforcement Committee-

The AEC dealt with 78 citations for alcohol violations by individuals. They threw out eight and imposed sanctions on seventy.
These sanctions involved fines and community service. Five people had more than one violation. Three people were cited by campus
police with a state citation. The AEC levied fines or imposed social probation on Patterson Court houses six times.

-Honor Council-

The Honor Council heard cases involving Code of Responsibility violations by nine students. Sanctions included warnings, social probations, fines, and
restitution. The Honor Council dealt with four students charged with honor violations. All were found not guilty. One student was
sent to the Dean of Students for an admitted honor violation.

Love of Learning program educational opportunities

Love continued from page 1

black high school students for college. The bank’s involvement will extend beyond their financial contribution and include pairing students with
Nationsbank employees as a mentoring program. Love of Learning aims to provide its students an environment which fosters the development
of the whole person and a foundation that encourages future personal growth. Students attend college preparation classes beginning at 7:45
a.m. and ending at 8:30 p.m. with minimal breaks for meals. Classes include African American history courses, advanced lab sciences,
as well as spiritual development. The nationally syndicated urban affairs columnist William Raspberry spoke at the graduation ceremony. His encouraging
words were a part of an Afrocentric service which acknowledged the “coming of age” of the twenty-seven students. Participants wore
African dress and danced to traditional African drums. Each graduate received a kente cloth stole and a new, symbolic name,
paralleling the African ceremonies of the passage from childhood to adulthood.

Woman rejected by The Citadel

A woman who sued The Citadel after rejecting her admission based on her gender was blocked by a federal appeals
court that said it wants to hear more about whether or not women should attend. The Citadel, a state-run, all-male
military institution, found out Shannon Richey Faulkner, of South Carolina, was a female after accepting her to the school. The
Citadel then rejected her. Faulkner had won an earlier injunction in district court in Charleston. A judge had ruled that
she may attend day classes at The Citadel, but not belong to the corps until the issue is settled. The
Citadel appealed to the federal court, which supported the institution. An appeal is scheduled to be heard September 27.

Harvard tests male contraceptive

Cambridge, MA (CPS) - A male contraceptive that blocks the production of sperm while preserving the libido has been tested
and found successful by Harvard medical researchers. The contraceptive, which is given by injection, suppressed sperm production in over a
dozen volunteers who reported no loss in sexual desire. When the injections were terminated, sperm counts returned to normal within
approximately 90 days. At this point in the testing, volunteers had to submit to a daily injection, which chief researcher
Syros Pavlou termed “not practical.” He said, however, that several laboratories were attempting to create a longer-lived injection, a birth-control
nasal spray, or an under-skin implant. According to the Gazette, the contraceptive, which consists of an ingredient that blocks sperm
production combined with the hormone testosterone, is the first of its kind that was effective in all males tested.

Employment Outlook brightens

Milwaukee, WI (CPS) - The hiring outlook is improving for the fourth quarter and should exceed hiring patterns from a
year ago, according to the Employment Outlook Survey conducted by Manpower. In a survey of nearly 15,000 U.S. firms, Manpower
found that 22 percent of the businesses surveyed are planning to hire, compared to 21 percent last year. Employers in
the Northeast and West will be hiring below the national level, the Midwest at about 22 percent, and the South
above the average. Among the industries, wholesale and retail sales hiring trends are strong, while public administration continues to be
slow. Finance, insurance, and real estate firms are hiring more, the survey found.

---
