THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 29, 1993

Emergency Medical Technicians Face Life and Death Decisions Daily
By Tara Pyne

4 a.m. - Sleep permeates the air but a few are still awake. They are not studying for reviews, writing
papers, or conjugating verbs but saving lives. David Nieland, John Harper, Allison Dorbandt, Whit Pepper, and Chris Willingham all participate
in the Emergency Medical Technician program in Mecklenburg County. Presently, the program is serving 25,000 citizens with approximately 1,000 calls
each year.

Allison Dorbandt enjoys volunteering for the E.M.T. program because she believes, “It is a chance to see the real world
and be a part of the community outside of Davidson activities.” The students must assess and stabilize a patient’s condition
until they can be transported to a hospital. Allison admits that the job can be tedious at times because, in
some cases, people do not want to be helped. In one case, she tried to help a man, but he
violently threw his bloody shirt at her. Allison says, “It only takes one time before you learn not to go
in by yourself.”

The rewarding part, says David Nieland, “is being able to help and knowing that a college student can make a
difference.” Dave had the opportunity to make a difference when the regular staff was away on a retreat one weekend.
One staff member and four Davidson students were called to an accident scene to dislodge two people from an overturned
car. “In that case, Davidson students made the difference between life and death for those people.”

The road to becoming an E.M.T. demands dedication and time. Each of Davidson’s E.M.T.s spent 135 hours learning proper procedures
and care for emergency medical situations ranging from basic C.P.R. to complex childbirths. In addition to classroom time, the students
also had to participate in clinical rotations in the emergency room for eight hours. What most people do not realize
is the complexity of an E.M.T.’s training. They are not only instructed in basic procedures like C.P.R. but also in
complicated techniques such as cutting people out of mangled cars without causing further injury to the patient.

Many of our E.M.T.s were certified at Davidson last year between October and February in a three-hour class every Tuesday
and Thursday. Understandably, E.M.T.s see more than their fair share of sad situations. Whit Pepper says, “It’s scary when you
see people our age, dead. Think about it... When that guy went out he wasn’t thinking, ‘I’m going to get
killed tonight’ - he was just like the rest of us.” Whit admits that witnessing so many tragic accidents has
really changed his way of thinking and instilled a sense of responsibility.

Responsibility is a large part of being an E.M.T. Davidson students are responsible for saving people’s lives on a daily
basis, and that kind of task cannot be taken lightly. As Whit sums it up, “If you screw up -
It’s real!” There is no next time or makeups.Obviously, E.M.T.s are involved in many tense situations and have to find
some outlet for release. Whit Pepper explains, “While you are on the scene you don’t think about what you are
doing. You just do your job. It’s not until you get back to the station that you think about what
has just happened.” The easiest way for the E.M.T.s to relieve some of their stress is to talk about what
has just happened with other members of their crew. It is through these talks that a strong bond is formed
between not only Davidson student E.M.T.s but the whole staff. Listeners may think they are being crass, but for them,
it is a means of release and even relaxation. In the words of Deborah Bacchus, the paramedic crew chief, “Davidson
E.M.T.s are our extra hands. They are trained individuals who can help us reach more of the community.”

A wonderful example of this would be in the case of Alfredo Urbino, who was injured on campus a couple
of months ago in a fraternity accident. Allison Dorbandt and Whit Pepper were able to respond immediately to the situation
because they were on campus. Another incident that expands beyond the bounds of Davidson occurred during Allison’s spring break. She
and her friends were on the way to Florida when they noticed an overturned car on the highway. Allison was
able to offer immediate care to the girls trapped in the car. In both situations, Davidson students' medical knowledge helped
secure the situations until further medical care could be obtained.

Certification for a student is an honorable feat considering the balance they have to find between the demands of Davidson’s
course load and medical rescue instruction. Though being an E.M.T. can be tedious at four in the morning, there are
definite rewards. The feeling of being an altruist is something that cannot be described by words but must be felt
to truly be appreciated.

Angelou Career Controversial

Maya continued from page 2

Lordly & Dame, Inc., Angelou is one of the greatest female lecturers of our time and “believes in social change
for the betterment of those who have yet to share fully in the American dream.” In her lectures that she
has given throughout the country and abroad, Angelou shares the black experience and educates her audience on the human condition.
Through songs, poems, and stories she “leaves every audience visibly moved by each performance.” Dr. Kimmel, on the Public Lectures
Committee, said, “She can be electrifying; I expect she will give an appearance like that in Love Auditorium. She is
a performer. She is going to give a performance over there.” He continued to say that Angelou will “generate response
through the power of her words and the power of her performance.” T.K. Tibby, a member of the Committee, said,
“She is a dynamic person.” In regard to the controversy at Wake Forest, Tibby commented that, “A lot of people
look for flaws in public figures... Maya has other duties outside her responsibilities at Wake Forest.” Directly preceding Angelou's lecture
on Wednesday, there will be an open reception in the Chambers Gallery.

Decision Weekend a Success Despite Weather

1997 continued from page 1

“I try to come here every chance I get.” Meeting fellow members of the class of 1997 ensured Andrea Anderson
from Savannah, Georgia that Davidson looks promising. It also looked “impressive” to Ryan Allen of Winston-Salem, yet he admitted that
tuition costs intimidated him. The Admissions Office and Davidson Ambassadors agreed on the day’s success. Wookie Payne, Sally Gantt, Associate
Dean of Admissions, commented that the number in attendance allowed the prospectives to interact, a crucial factor in a student’s
decision to enroll. She was also pleased with the wealth of information parents received. "The day was successful thanks to
the support from the faculty, staff, and students,” stated Davidson Ambassadors President. Once again, the Davidson community shined through.

Why Don't You Recycle This Paper?
