THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 1993

WALTER PRICE - Editor in Chief
SARAH GAYLE - Managing Editor
TOM KOONCE - Associate Editor
TOM PRICE - Assistant Editor
SEAN LIND - News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Opinions Editor
CHRIS HOVELAND - Davidson Arts Editor
STANCEL RILEY - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
CHRIS HOOD - Ass’t Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor
ALEX DANIEL - Production Manager
LAURA DENNIS - Ass’t Production Manager

The Davidsonian
Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

HARRISON ROBERTS - Advertising Manager
BILL BRYAN - Ass’t Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS - Business Manager
KATRICE SHULER - Circulation Manager

Printed by Tribune Media Services

Letters

Ballard Defies "Cowardly Acts"

Hang in There Dr. Kuykendall

It is rare for students at any level of schooling to admire, even revere, administrators. Even rarer is an administrator
who can be equally respected by faculty, students, and alumni. But John Kuykendall is such a man. As he enters
the ninth year of his presidency at Davidson, Kuykendall has led our charge from a school of regional recognition to
one that shines nationally. He has overseen a decade of unprecedented change and growth. From major physical improvements, such as
the Visual Arts Center and Baker Sports Complex, to significant campus environmental changes, like the alcohol policy; Kuykendall has directed
a period of tremendous transformation at Davidson.

In a recent interview with The Davidsonian, Kuykendall hints at his future here. He mentions his concerns of becoming “stale”
in his position and worries about the maintenance of fresh leadership for the college’s best interests. Rumors of Kuykendall’s eventual
departure and potential replacements have been commonplace over the past few years. It is our wish to encourage President Kuykendall
to “hang in there.” His leadership has been the major impetus for the positive moves at Davidson and he is
the ideal individual to continue the school’s developmental course. Kuykendall states that “If excellence is good enough for today it
is not good enough for tomorrow.” Well, Kuykendall’s brand of excellence has been good enough and we would like to
see it continue for many more tomorrows.

To the Editor,

On Monday, January 18th, I arrived at my office and found that the small poster on my door had been
defaced with a racial slur. The poster, designed to cheer passers-by, depicts three Zimbabwean women dancing and singing above a
caption that reads: “If you can walk you can dance; if you can talk you can sing.” The person or
persons responsible wrote: “If you can bounce a ball, you can play basketball,” and consciously or unconsciously they had chosen
Martin Luther King’s birthday to express their animosity.

Some may suggest that this was a meaningless incident, or that the intentions of the person who did this cannot
be inferred. Ugliness, like beauty, is in the eye of the beholder or in that of the recipient of the
deed. To me it is a reflection of the ongoing assault to the spirit with which students, faculty, and staff
of color must contend every day. No news is not good news. Silence on the part of those who have
been wounded may only be an indication that they have given up. There are many standards for measuring excellence. Moral
excellence is the most important of all, and cowardly acts of spiritual violence can pollute a whole community. As a
community, we must continue to work for positive changes in attitudes toward people who are different from ourselves.

Barbara J. Ballard
Asst. Professor of History

McLaurin: Come Get Your Bike

To the Editor,

During the summer break as well as...Christmas picked up many non-registered bicycles around campus for safekeeping. Unfortunately, very few students
have come by our office to claim their bikes. If you are missing a bicycle, please come by our office
and look at the bicycles that we have in storage; one of them may be yours. Please be aware of
the fact that any property left in storage longer than six months is subject to be sold at auction. Please
come by and claim your bicycle before this happens to you. Thank you,
Sgt. D.E. McLaurin
Campus Police

Spivey, Humphrey Write On Exams

To the Editor,

Students, check your syllabi now! The rule at Davidson is that no papers or tests may be assigned the week
before optional class days if a final exam is required in that class. If you find that your professor has
scheduled a test or paper during this time, you have the right to point out this rule to them. When
students are completing work for a professor down to the last minute, their time to study for exams is reduced.
Some exams count for a large percentage of the final grade in a class, and it is not fair to
have 15 weeks' worth of work compromised because of inadequate time to prepare for the exam. Students, be aware that
you don’t have to be writing papers or taking tests the week before optional class days, and you can do
something about it if you catch it now.

Alice Spivey
Jennifer Humphrey
Co-Chairs of Council for Academic Affairs

Scire Says, "Thanks, Thanks, Thanks"

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondence to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices
are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or
commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editor,

THANK YOU! THANK YOU! THANK YOU! I knew there was “Spirit” here. It just needed to be unearthed and our
men’s soccer team has certainly done just that! THANK YOU! THANK YOU! THANK YOU! To the “Paw Posse,” whoever you
might be. The red and white paws leading to Davidson from the interstate “make my day” coming to and going
from work each day. (I thought about doing it myself many mornings about 3 a.m.) THANK YOU! THANK YOU! THANK
YOU! to the Davidson community for the warm response during the Christmas Parade. Our mascots were made to feel welcome,
wanted, and proud to be WILDCATS! THANK YOU! THANK YOU! THANK YOU! to ALL WILDCAT STUDENT ATHLETES for all of
your hard work! We are so very proud of you for wanting to represent our school. Your hard work and
perseverance are appreciated more than you will ever know. Now that the Final Four is over, I truly hope the
Wildcat Fever that was awakened by our men’s soccer team will continue to flourish as we support all of our
other winter sports. Let’s get out and support the men’s and women’s basketball teams as they struggle to their FINAL
FOUR!

Cheers,
Jeanett Scire
Spirit Team Advisor
