SPORTS MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1994

Slagle Captures Victory #150 with win over Ga.
Photo by Rob Kosicki
Senior John Doe beats Georgia Southern to the ball in coach Charlie Slagle’s 150th victory on Thursday's "Senior" game.

Football falls to Randolph-Macon at the hands of quarterback Bush
By Will Cobb

After an inspiring victory on the road at Methodist, the football team hoped traveling once again would provide another victory. Unfortunately, the Wildcats had difficulty moving the ball in the first half and fell to Randolph-Macon, 28-14. After falling behind 21-0 in the middle of the second quarter, Davidson made some adjustments, but the team was never able to get any closer than two touchdowns.

“Early in the game we couldn’t get things going offensively. Our defense spent a lot of time on the field in the first half,” said Head Coach Tim Landis.

At the end of the first half, senior tailback Chris Leak got the Wildcats on the board with a 3-yard touchdown run. Leak missed the first quarter due to an injury on the first play of the game but came back to lead the team in rushing with 84 yards on 21 carries.

Randolph-Macon’s quarterback damaged the Wildcats for the second season in a row by scoring four touchdowns on the ground on James Cassidy runs of 18, 57, 1, and 3 yards. Last year, Bush threw two touchdowns in the final four minutes to spoil Davidson’s victory party, 21-17.

“You have to give Randolph-Macon some credit, their quarterback played really well and beat us,” said Landis.

The Wildcats fell behind 28-7 in the third quarter, but countered with several drives that died in the Yellow Jackets' territory, including a loss on downs at the 28-yard line. Freshman Hamilton Hill relieved starting quarterback Kevin Holzworth in the fourth quarter and completed the longest pass of the season with a 71-yard touchdown pass to Ike Bailey. Hill finished 5 of 7 with one touchdown pass and 117 yards.

“Our kids kept on fighting, and we got some offense going, but they kept that two-touchdown cushion. We have to execute on offense better,” said Landis.

Davidson continues to use several players on both sides of the ball. Sophomore John Cowan has made the biggest commitment as...

See Foot continued on page 16

Rugby finishes 2nd in East-West tourney
By Warren Buford

The Davidson College rugby club has been working hard to uphold their excellent tradition. They have taken their show on the road for the past two weekends and played excellent rugby. The Wildcats, 3-1, walked over their arch-rival Wake Forest two weekends ago to claim a 14-5 victory. The first half was witness to slow rugby, but after a motivational speech by rugby team captain Simon Priestley at halftime, Davidson came out ready to play. Priestley dodged five tackles and ran about 40 yards to score the first try. His kick after put the Wildcats up 7-0. Shortly thereafter, sophomores Warren Buford and David Derrick used intimidating tactics to force a loose ball, which they dove on for a try. A Wake scrum half scored in the last seconds, putting a damper on the hope for a shutout.

The win against Wake Forest gave Davidson the chance to participate in the East-West All-star competition at UNC-Wilmington this past weekend. Marking the first time Davidson has been invited, this match brings together top teams from both the East and West regions of the state. A win propels them as the best in N.C.

In the final game, Davidson played young, but skillful UNC-Wilmington. UNC-Wilmington took advantage of Davidson tiredness in the first half and came out atop 10-0. In usual fashion, the Wildcats didn’t give up and made a valiant effort to come back. In the end, Davidson’s hard work came up short, and UNC-W claimed victory 13-12. Freshman Ben Kinneman and senior co-captain Tom Shelburne scored a try each, and Priestley added two points to the Davidson score.

“Coming in second place in the East-West competition gave us a good indication that we play competent rugby and that we can be the best in the state,” stated rugby president Mike Kessler. With this successful two weeks, Davidson is excited about their next home game against Western Carolina on November 5.

Game of the Week
N.C. State vs. San Diego
7:00 p.m., Wednesday------ Richardson Field

By Will Cobb

When the horn sounded signaling the end of the men’s soccer game against Georgia Southern last Thursday, head coach Charlie Slagle captured his...150th career victory. The match was the final home game of the season for the Wildcats as six seniors played their last game on Richardson Field. Neal Andrews, John Hudson, Jon Olin, John Sampers, Erik Sjostrom, and Tommy Suter played their last home game as a Wildcat. The Wildcats fell behind early when a Georgia Southern striker made a nice trap and placed the shot past keeper Neal Andrews. The Eagles held on to their lead until seven minutes remained in the half. Sophomore Robert Clarke got his tenth goal of the season to even the match. Clarke answered again for the Wildcats with another goal just two minutes later. The goal proved to be the game-winner for Davidson. Clarke leads the team with 11 goals on the season. Georgia Southern had few threats for the remainder of the game, and John Eckman added an insurance goal in the second half. The victory wrapped up Southern Conference action as the Wildcats ended with a strong 5-1 record. Most likely Davidson will finish second in the regular season standings behind Furman, unless the Paladins lose their final two conference matches. With the victory, Davidson headed into the UNCC Invitational this past weekend looking to build on the victory. On Saturday, the Wildcats faced a traditional soccer power in Philadelphia Textile, a former Final Four participant. Davidson silenced their opponent with a 2-0 shutout as keeper Neal Andrews had to make just three saves the whole afternoon. Ryan Northington and Tommy Suter each scored in the first half as the team held on for their fifth shutout of the season. The Wildcats then faced #19 Florida International yesterday to finish out the tournament. Davidson suffered a 3-0 loss as their opponent scored twice in the final 15 minutes to put the game out of reach. Though the Wildcats had their opportunities, they could not capitalize. “We had some good chances in the second half, but we just couldn’t put the ball in the back of the net,” said Hudson. The loss dropped the overall record to 10-7-1 on the season. Five of the seven losses have come against teams that are currently ranked in the top 20 nationally. Davidson wraps up the regular season this weekend at the South Alabama Invitational, where the Wildcats will face Alabama A&M and Vanderbilt. Post-season action will begin over the first weekend in November at the Southern Conference Tournament in Greensboro.

Field hockey (9-5-1) stays strong despite tough weekend
By Traci Cliett

As their season approaches its close, the Davidson field hockey team is extremely pleased with their progress thus far. With a record of 9-5-1, Coach Betsy Pryor anxiously awaits the team’s challenging upcoming matches. Last Wednesday, Davidson defeated Deep South foe Appalachian State. Even without starter Meredith Rachinsky, the Wildcats maintained control of a physical game. Saturday, Davidson faced Virginia Commonwealth at home. After a tough, uphill battle, Davidson lost 2-1 in sudden death overtime. Kelly Yoder of VCU scored the game-winner to end the game. Sunday, the University of Richmond came to Davidson to finish up what has been the toughest home weekend Davidson has or will have to face this season. However, the weekend ended on a lukewarm note when Davidson tied the Spiders in double overtime. Overall, this season has been a positive one for the field hockey program. Most notably, Davidson defeated Duke for the first time with a 3-2 overtime victory. Pryor is a bit frustrated, though, with some of the team’s losses this season. Regarding the losses to Davidson Elkins and Southwest Missouri, Pryor feels “we outplayed them but just didn’t outscore them. We definitely had better skills.” She believed the losses to Miami-Ohio and Wake Forest were more justified due to the level of competition. Besides their record, Davidson boasts incredibly strong, young talent. Junior Holly Kledis leads the team with seven goals, but freshman Erin Smith follows close behind with six on the season. Smith scored two goals in the victory over Duke and, according to Pryor, “has phenomenal speed.” Two midfielders which stand out in Pryor’s mind are freshman Chase Keith and junior Nicky Ficeto. Keith has tabbed six goals this season and receives praise for her stick skills. Ficeto takes all of the team’s corner shots and “has great shots on goal, as well as being a marvelous player overall.” The team is led by captains Nancy Hilles and Robin Pepper.

See Game continued on page 16