THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1994

Forget the fruitcake. For the person who has everything, shop at Alternative Gift Markets, Inc. for presents that could save the world.

By Laura Jones

On Sunday, December 4, from 2:00 to 4:00 p.m., the Union is sponsoring a community-wide event to celebrate the holidays. There will be Christmas music, decorations, cookies, cider, and donkeys from Haiti. Along with the donkeys will be a multitude of unique gifts available for purchase for those special people in your life.

The Chaplain’s office, the Chapel Committee, and a host of other student organizations, including Patterson Court Houses and religious groups, are sponsoring the second annual Alternative Gift Market with the theme “Give the World a Christmas Present.” It is the perfect opportunity to cover all your Christmas shopping in one stop. It is also a great way to celebrate the act of gift-giving in a fresh and meaningful way.

Goats and donkeys in Haiti, which provide a source of food and transportation, health care in Laos, job training for homeless people in the United States, or acres of Atlantic rain forest in Brazil are among some of the gifts available for sale. Some of you may remember the water buffaloes from last year’s Market. As shoppers purchase these gifts, they receive Christmas cards with their gifts inscribed, ready to mail or deliver as alternative gifts for family or friends. Donors, card recipients, and people in need all around the world receive joy at Christmas as a result of these purchases. Simple gifts, like food, medical assistance, and clean water, are a means of survival for many.

Harriet C. Prichard is the founder and president of Alternative Gift Markets, Inc. Started in 1980 in Pasadena, California, Alternative Gift Markets now extend across the United States. Hundreds of churches, organizations, and schools will hold markets this year. Prichard says, “The international projects are life-giving, life-saving, and life-extending, for all races and religious groups. The Markets offer shoppers the opportunity to preserve our endangered planet as well as help hungry, sick, and homeless people - the world around - help themselves.”

So forget the fruitcake. Come to the Alternative Gift Market on Sunday, December 4, in the Student Union, as we challenge one another to celebrate Christmas in a new way. Give the world a Christmas present in honor of a friend or family member this holiday season.

Sophomores battle second-year slump

By Randy Hartwell

Under the ironic acronym of SLAC (Sophomore Life Action Committee), Warren Buford, Nicola Hartery, David Wick, and other sophomore members of the SGA are forming a committee to take on various problems and issues that second-year students invariably face. By taking action now, says Buford, sophomores will be able to learn about more immediate interests as well as long-range concerns that will confront the Class of '97 closer to its graduation date.

The committee sees three objectives as its main responsibilities. First, there would be a sophomore-led self-study to evaluate problems the class wants addressed before becoming seniors. Second, a series of talks given by juniors and seniors, covering such issues as major declaration, study abroad, and hall counseling would be held to better educate second-year students on important choices that will affect the rest of their time at Davidson. Third, round table discussions would take place for sophomores to talk about SGA issues. Buford sees these discussions as “a way for sophomore SGA members and non-SGA sophomores to get together.” The committee is open to all sophomores. Those interested should contact Buford at -6026.

SGA sends letters to trustees, not a vote

Pres. continued from page 2

In favor of keeping the present requirement intact states that, “The presidential tie with the Presbyterian Church is part of Davidson’s foundation; if taken away, the Davidson we know, the Davidson we have come to cherish, will begin to crumble.” The lettermentions that many non-Presbyterian Davidson students feel that the current by-law makes sense for the sake of tradition. The opposition presents statistical evidence to suggest that the requirement that the president be an active Presbyterian creates unnecessary exclusion of otherwise qualified candidates, especially among African-Americans. The letter also states that “a rule regarding Presidential qualifications is not necessary to preserve the tradition, and the trustees can and will choose a Presbyterian president if they wish.” At the end of the letter, Rosenbach requests that the trustees contact him with any questions about the SGA’s work.

SGA still debates the topic

The SGA opened discussion after every senator had read the letter. Requests for grammatical corrections were set aside and the senators worked on correcting imbalances between each side of the issue. There were also differences of opinion regarding the validity of some of the statistics, particularly about the number of Presbyterians in the United States. The SGA agreed to double-check the figures before sending the letter.

The largest controversy centers around whether or not to include in the letter a tally of the SGA’s opinions. Some senators believe that a vote is an essential indicator of whether or not the students want the by-laws changed and that without the inclusion of a vote, the trustees will have no reason to respond to the discussion at hand. Arguments against a vote include the assertion that on this type of issue, the senators could not effectively represent their constituents, that voting would undermine the purpose of presenting both sides of the issue, and that the representatives’ opinions may change by the time the trustees get back to the SGA.

Matthew Hobbie, a member of the Chapel Committee, says, “I will be glad this was brought up if, as a result, we come to realize the importance of the Presbyterian Church in the history and life of Davidson and that the president, as a Presbyterian, preserves this.”

The Davidsonian is looking for a new staff to take over for the spring semester. Call Leigh or Alex if you are interested (-2148). There are several positions available: business manager, news editor, arts & living editor, and others.

A PLACE FOR DISCOVERY

Photo courtesy of Chemistry Society
Chemistry Society at the Discovery Place

Kids continued from page 1

Mich Rhea. Most of their activities involve community service. For example, they have given a demonstration to the Parkview Elementary in Mooresville in addition to the demonstration at Discovery Place.

After giving the demonstrations, the society has realized other benefits. Steven Aldridge said that the society allows “an excellent opportunity for contact with professors outside of the classrooms.” Also, Currey enjoys watching the “children’s faces light up” when the ice cream suddenly appears. Vice President Marcia Payne believes that their demonstrations “show children that they can participate in science and that it is not just an adult activity.”

Beeston, one of the professors involved, says, “I enjoyed being part of a group of volunteers rather than the professor in charge,” and she believes that it is important for children to have “opportunities to do science and to see scientists in action in order to nurture their interest.”

The Davidson chapter took part in the demonstrations at Discovery Place along with other chapters in the area, with UNCC’s chapter being one of them. The Davidson Chapter is currently working on a magic show for children in their attempt to get children involved in science. Also, some of the members are planning to go to California for the national meeting. In addition to these activities, Discovery Place has invited them back anytime.

Thurs, Fri, Sat: 8am - 8pm
Sunday: 8am - 9pm
Mon, Tues, Wed: 9am - 8pm

A Davidson Tradition Since 1951
Breakfast Daily Until 11:30 a.m.
Take-out Orders Welcomed!
NEW HOURS
Now Open Every Evening
104 South Main Street, Davidson • 896-7743