Che 3

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

The Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXVI MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1994 NUMBER 12

Cutting financial aid curbs tuition hikes

By Mary Laura Moretz

When asked why some of this year’s freshmen are not receiving 100 percent financial aid for their demonstrated need, Dean
of Admissions and Financial Aid Nancy Cable Wells says, “It’s a very, very complicated issue.”

In the spring of 1992, Davidson announced that it would soon be unable to meet all need-based financial aid demands.
The class of 1998 is the first class to be affected by the limitations. Trustee policy now limits financial aid
to 13 percent of the overall college budget.

“A very few students are not having their needs met now,” Cable Wells says, and “most students are still getting
the help they need.”

Continuing to provide for every demonstrated financial need posed a dilemma for the college budget. Cable Wells says, “Financial aid
had been the fastest growing part of the budget. We were pouring money into it, and it was encroaching on
other important areas of the budget.”

Cable Wells says the change “makes it hard to do everything we want to do” in the financial aid office,
since there are still about as many needy students as there have been every year for the past decade. Cutting
financial aid, however, means not having to raise tuition as much each year. Slowing the rate of tuition increase “will
hopefully keep more and more people from needing financial aid each year. It helps put the situation in balance,” says
Cable Wells.

Despite recent efforts, Davidson does not meet our needs, say some African American students.

By Jennifer Kerns

The Davidson Class of 1995 still remembers the intense racial tension created by an incident in the 1991-92 school year,
which forced students to confront the issue of racism. In the intermittent years, the campus has made special efforts to
fulfill the needs of minorities, specifically African-Americans.

“I remember having to justify my presence here to myself and others. Now, I think there is much more awareness
of cultural differences,” says senior Nikki Liverman.

Freshmen Orientation graduate Tony Perez, Assistant to the Director of Career Services, organized a weekend orientation for minorities. Perez hopes
that the weekend will expand into a four-week seminar, with incoming freshmen taking classes with professors and talking with speakers
about life as a minority. This program is an augmentation of the two-week program already headed up by Dean John
Eaves.

“One weekend is not enough. The four-week seminar would encourage leadership development, give a support group, and give minorities a
head start.” He plans to submit a detailed request to the president in the fall of 1995.

Perez also scheduled a speaker on the topic “How to Survive on a Predominantly White Campus” for Monday, November 14.
The speaker canceled at the last minute. The forum will be rescheduled for next semester.

Black Student Coalition

The Black Student Coalition gives African-Americans a place to be themselves. In rebuttal, President Charlie Blake states that...“BSC continues to
provide a social outlet for African Americans, and a ‘center for awareness of differences.” They hosted a spaghetti supper at
the beginning of the year to attract a diverse group of new members.

See SERCH continued on 2

Chemistry society plays with kids at Discovery Place

The Chemical Society helps kids. Photo courtesy of Chemistry Society

By Jay Jennings

The Davidson College Chapter of the American Chemical Society celebrated National Chemistry Week by giving demonstrations at Discovery Place. They
demonstrated chemistry for children from November 5 through 12. A group of ten students and four professors participated in the
demonstrations of making GAK, slime, and ice cream for children and adults who attended Discovery Place two weeks ago.

In the Instant Ice Cream demonstration, ice cream mix is stirred together with liquid nitrogen. The cream freezes, a cloud
of nitrogen gas rises from the bowl, and ice cream remains in the bowl. This society started this semester because
their participation will be “beneficial to the careers of its members either in graduate school or medical school,” according to
President Theo Curey. There are about 13 members with two advisors, Dr. Ruth Beeston and Dr.

See Kids continued on page 3

SGA unanimously passes resolution demanding removal of Christian requirement for religion professors

By Meg Wolff

The SGA unanimously voted on Tuesday to submit a resolution to the Board of Trustees which would officially allow non-Christians
to become members of the Religion Department. The SGA raised this issue in response to the discovery of an old
college constitutional by-law which prohibits professed non-Christians from teaching religion at Davidson. The resolution states: “The Christian faith is not
a necessary qualification for professors to teach such diverse courses as Buddhist Traditions, Chinese Popular Belief, and Modern Jewish Literature.”

Rosenbach says, “The idea of being taught Buddhist traditions by a Buddhist monk, for example, is just very exciting to
me.” Rosenbach encouraged the resolution because he feels the college by-law, which requires any professor hired by the Religion Department
to be of the Christian faith, fundamentally contradicts part of the college’s Statement of Purpose: “The loyalty of the college
thus extends beyond the Christian community to the whole human community and necessarily includes an openness and respect for the
world’s various religious traditions.” Junior Latasha Jenkins, who did initial research on the issue, reported to the SGA on November
8 that other departments have eliminated the requirement in the past. The resolution, which passed unanimously in the SGA meeting,
will now be sent to the trustees. SGA resolutions are intended to present the student view on current issues; they
do not directly change school policy.

Presidential Tragedy in S.C. | Night music

Men’s Hoops

David Santschi explores the impact this tragedy has had and will have on all Americans. NEWS 2

SGA resolves to send letter to trustees instead of a vote. OPINIONS 8

successfully on November 17 with an outstanding program of music. ARTS & LIVING 10

title. Is this the year for NCAA? SPORTS 15
