THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1994

The Davidsonian

LEIGH RAWDON - Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Executive Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Managing Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY - News Editor
RUSS TARVER - Ass't News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts & Living Editor
WILL COBB - Sports Editor
BROOKE McCRAE - Photography Editor
WILLIAM ROBERT - Copy Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES - Advertising Manager
SCOTT HILE - Operations Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN - Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD - Circulation Manager
ERIK SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

Purchasing Power & the Ivory Tower

The typical college student, not yet burdened by the slings and arrows of making a living and inspired by great philosophy and literature, develops an aversion to the money-grubbing of the real world. We learn from Hobbes that money, something we can never get enough of, is inherently scarce and, therefore, destined to be an object of greed and a constant source of conflict. In a capitalistic society like the U.S., to gain money is to succeed, and only the great thinkers or the great public servants manage to transcend this pervasive definition of success.

These days, we are constantly faced with the evils that center around money, from thieving evangelists to strip malls to inside traders. We are bombarded with businesses looking out for number one, trying to get whatever the market will bear, and fast-food strips like our lovely Cornelius make suburban America a commercial squalor. But we often forget the good that can involve money, that ever-scarce commodity. We need not look past the grounds of Davidson College to see where money does great good. Generous alumni have helped our endowment campaign achieve phenomenal success, and scholarships enable talented students to partake of Davidson’s growing resources. We can’t study without books, and we can’t get books without money. Don’t be deceived; money is mainly what brought Davidson to its highest U.S. News ranking ever.

So let us not, as idealistic young students, fall prey to the sophism that money is the root of all evil. It is an instrument of evil, as it can be an instrument of good. Whatever course of study we choose, as college students we find ourselves searching constantly for an answer to the questions, “What is the good life?” and “How can I succeed?” To the average Davidson student who, despite periodic delusions of brilliance, will never contribute to the academic world in any great fashion, we address the following answer: Make a lot of money, and get your name on a building.

——-

B.J., stick with us

To the editors,

We are writing in response to B.J. Rudell's letter which appeared in the September 12 issue of The Davidsonian. B.J., your sarcasm and general attitude are out of line. You proposed your idea, those with an interest in the matter discussed it, and the idea was rejected. Period. There is no reason for you to take it personally. Furthermore, and most importantly, there is absolutely no call for you to dismiss out of hand the objections to a new basketball court. These objections are valid ones, and you, as our representative, are supposed to take the views of everyone into account, not just the views of those who share your opinion, no matter what the issue. We hope you will remember that in the future.

Sincerely,
Molly Green, '95
Sarah Patterson, '95
Kelly Dixon, '95

"It is just a basketball court"

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036, Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editors,

In response to B.J. Rudell’s mildly caustic letter in last week’s Davidsonian, all I can really say is, “B.J., please relax. While I’m sure the issue of whereTo put a new basketball court is very important to you and the millions of disenfranchised basketball players spread all over this campus, please try to keep a sense of perspective. IT IS JUST A BASKETBALL COURT! Myself, along with many people who I have spoken with, believe too much time, effort, discussion, and ink have already been devoted to a topic which, to tell the truth, is not that crucial to the campus’s well-being. Mr. Rudell’s letter, while written with the most heartfelt and good intentions, is fighting for this cause in a way that is counterproductive and ineffective. To discuss this fly in the ointment any further is forcing nothing into something, and making it into too much of an issue. As Billy Shakespeare might say, B.J.’s letter is “full of sound and fury, signifying nothing.”

Mr. Rudell prefaces his defense of the new court with a convoluted and incoherent analogy linking basketball with beer drinking and beer-buying. Maybe he sees the logic in this strategy, but I simply do not. I can say from personal experience that if you drink a lot and play basketball at the same time, you will probably vomit (Hint to the freshmen: Do not, I repeat, DO NOT participate in the Basketball Score-a-rama booth during Lunar Luau if you have been drinking).

Now, I understand where B.J. is coming from. The court in its current condition is not the best. In fact, it is sort of like swimming in a dirty pond: it’s swimming, but it’s just not the same. However, it is not inconceivable to repair the court. A new coating of asphalt, a few new goals, and some paint would do that place some good. In fact, it would probably equal playing conditions on the proposed court, but with less inconvenience. The 300-foot “defender” is a problem for only one of the courts, yet the other court could be hassle-free with some help from the school. This obstacle-free court would have an approximately equal area as the proposed court. So what’s the only remaining hassle? Trees, it seems. B.J. tells us, “Overhanging branches hinder outside shooting.” I seem to remember that Davidson has an arborist’s department that might be very happy to trim back these overhanging branches if asked. That hurdle is cleared.

As for the light post on the other court, you could turn it into a shrine, dress it up like a woman, or film a McDonald's commercial there. I can imagine Larry Bird playing out there, saying, “From my chest, to Michael’s ugly bald noggin, off the light post, nothing but net...”

The alternative does not seem really fair. The new court might be free the first year of existence, but what of the cost after that? Rumor has it that the court will cost the school thousands of dollars a year to maintain after the inaugural year. That certainly does not sound free of charge as Mr. Rudell would have us believe.

Furthermore, after looking at the proposed site, it seems as if only about 15 might be able to play in such a space before overcrowding became an issue. Yet B.J. seems to think accommodating 15 average ball players is a more important cause than providing a safe, convenient place to park for Davidson students, many of whom are women who might otherwise be forced to walk from a more distant, less well-lit spot. Trading safety for basketball does not seem to be a viable option.

B.J., you were elected to the S.G.A. to voice our concerns and to represent us, yet you keep beating a dead horse that most of us do not feel ever should have been alive in the first place, and I think last week’s S.G.A. vote proves that. I hope you won’t be bitter, despite the fact that your letter is laced with bitterness. If you really want to pursue a worthwhile issue, however, I will completely support your suggestion to widen all the hallways and doorways so that we could park in our rooms. Maybe then you could use the old parking places to make an enormous basketball complex. Until that happens, though, I will not support your suggestion for the new court.

Most Respectfully,
Alan W. Stump II