IN THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 11, 1994

Giving a rosy perspective to the prospective class of '98
By Jeff Fuller

Last weekend, the Davidson community pulled together to encourage prospective students to accept their places in Davidson’s Class of '98.

The second annual Decision Davidson weekend provided accepted students with an opportunity to take a closer look at Davidson before matriculation on May 1. It also gave the college one last chance to show itself off before the big decisions are made.

On Saturday, 200 students and their families filed through Baker Sports Complex at 8:30 a.m. to register for Decision Davidson. Following registration, they were given tours of the campus. At 10 a.m., Nancy Cable Wells, Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid, welcomed the visiting students and their families to Davidson during an opening session held in Love Auditorium. President Kuykendall described Davidson’s distinguishing characteristics. Finally, Ward Davis, Honor Council chairman, gave his perspective on the student experience at Davidson.

Students and parents then attended two academic interest sessions of their choice in Chambers. A professor and top student from each department addressed academic life at Davidson. Student life interest sessions covering all aspects of campus life were then conducted by representatives from RLO, Patterson Court, SGA, the Union, publicity, religious life, athletics, life after Davidson, service, and the freshman experience. While students attended two interest sessions of their choice, parents heard from panels on financial aid and student life.

Decision Davidson concluded with a closing luncheon held on Chambers Front Lawn. Ambassador Jack Perry, director of the Dean Rusk Program, and Dr. Cynthia Lewis, associate professor of English, spoke on the value of a liberal arts education and the qualities that make Davidson a special place. Decision Davidson coordinator, Cynthia Cassell ’96, was pleased with the amount of help she received with the weekend.

Greek Week brings houses together
By Tamara Kay Tibby

The Greek Weekend '94 marked the return of a tradition absent from Davidson for four years. The weekend, intended to unite the Patterson Court fraternities and eating houses, earned money to benefit the Easter Seals Foundation. Organizers were not pleased with participation in the event, but they believed that the weekend laid a strong foundation for future successful Greek Weekends.

Each fraternity and eating house was asked to sponsor an activity. Friday’s events included frisbee-golf sponsored by KA, kickball sponsored by Warner Hall, and an obstacle course sponsored by Rusk. Saturday was also a sports-filled day, with a volleyball tournament, waterslide at Kappa Sigma and an early morning Fun Run sponsored by Connor and SAE.

Students elect new campus leaders
Elect continued from page 1

dent Government Association that is more responsive to students. Rudell believes that the effectiveness of SGA depends on the attitude of the representatives and, thus, believes next year they will bring many improvements to the campus.

Only three people ran for rising junior class senator. Bartholomew is “sorry that more people were not interested in running, but I hope...That is a sign that we are doing a good job.” Bo hopes that the new Student Government senators will become involved with all aspects of campus. The weekend ended with an awards ceremony and band-and-beer party featuring Vertical Horizons on Sunday afternoon. Coordinator Alan Stump believes that the weekend was an opportunity for the Patterson Court houses, especially the fraternities who are often viewed negatively by some of the administration, to “do something for a common goal” and dispel fraternity stereotypes. Stump was disappointed by the lack of participation on the part of some fraternities and eating houses, but he believes that those houses who contributed to the weekend events had “clean fun that was worthwhile and benefited a good cause.” The money raised by the Patterson Court houses and corporate sponsors will be donated to the Easter Seals Foundation, which provides services for mentally and physically handicapped people and their families. Stump thanks those houses and fraternities that participated as well as Frances Bailey and other individuals who helped to coordinate the event. Stump would like the Greek Weekend to continue to be a yearly tradition at Davidson. “I urge all PCC houses to get involved in next year’s activities in order to guarantee that the weekend will be successful,” said Stump.

The Davidsonian has several positions open for the fall semester. The following positions are paid and do not require any journalism experience: operations manager, advertising salespersons, and circulation staff. Call Leigh, Alex, or Mandy in the Davidsonian office.

The Davidsonian
KATHERINE HASH - NEWS EDITOR
ASHLYN DANNELLY - ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR
CARRIE BLACKBURN - SPECIAL ASSIGNMENTS

Staff Writers: Court McBryde, Brett Marston, Jay Jennings, Martha Knight, Wendy Lee, Mary Clare Jalonick, Christy Block, Lexy Devane, Towner Blackstock, Phoebe Dean, Beth Lindsay, Mary Laura Moretz, Jeff Kent, Jeff Fuller, T.K. Tibby

The Admissions and Davidson Ambassadors, including 75 student helpers, contributed greatly. Cassell says the most rewarding aspect of Decision Davidson is seeing the students in the fall. “If I see just one student here next year, I’ll feel like I made a difference.” Cable Wells commented on the “terrific effort to assist the Admissions Office from all corners of the campus.” She would like to extend her own gratitude to the entire Davidson College community for “helping to select and matriculate the class of 1998.”

Connor and SAE held their annual fun run for Greek.

You have enough to worry about before the summer begins. So let Student StoreHouse take some of the load off! Just call our toll-free number and we'll take care of the rest. We'll pick up your belongings, store them safely over the summer, and deliver them back. Our extra service doesn’t cost you a penny — pick up and delivery is free! After all, we figure college students are smart enough to know what to do with a little extra time and money.

Guaranteed Lowest Prices
Free Pick Up and Delivery
Fully Bonded
Monitored Climate
Safe and Secure Facilities
Computerized Inventory Tracking

CALL NOW
SUMMER STORAGE
FINAL EXAMS...SUMMER JOBS...SUMMER STORAGE...

StoreHouse
800-5-WE STORE
1-800-593-7867

©1994 Student StoreHouse, Inc. SPACES ARE LIMITED!!

NEED SOME EXTRA $$$? CALL US!!