OPINIONS. MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1994

It seems profound thoughts hit you at the oddest times. I took off for Virginia on Friday for four days
of sleep, hanging out with old friends, sports, outdoors, and music. No big plans, no real schedule, nothing to make
me think too hard—or think at all if I could help it. And then it happened, in some bar in
Charlottesville, VA. I was talking to a guy named Ryan from Portland, Oregon who left his punk-type band to join
an acoustic group out of D.C. We were laughing about other things: our first concerts, high school band competitions, rivalries,
bats, roaches, and our horrible inability to express ourselves verbally. It was a typical night at a bar before some
cool band goes up on stage and takes you away with songs that say exactly what you always wanted to
while you stand back and let yourself be absorbed in it all. The moments where you say “This is college”
because it is finally the way you pictured it back in fifth grade.

Rosie Molinary

When a tree falls in the forest, someone should be there to notice.

We were talking about stage fright. I was giving him a complex about being microphone shy to explain why he’s
a bass player. He defended himself quickly. “I spoke at my graduation. I’m not microphone shy.” There was no “Deep
Thoughts Fairy” to keep me from diving in, no one to warn me that I was about to think more
than I had in the last few days, no one to keep my fall break carefree. “What did you speak
on?” “Dropouts. I started with the age-old question: a tree falls in a forest and no one is around. Does
it make a sound?” I stared back for a second, remembering that question from my freshman year philosophy class. I
had pondered it then and decided that the tree did make a sound. Sound is the action, the occurrence—not the
observation of it. Something happens, whether small or massive, and it must have a result, a sound. Nothing goes by
without any real sign; it may go by without notice, but everything has the opportunity for notice at least. “What
was your answer?” “Oh, it makes a sound. That goes without saying. The real question is why wasn’t anyone listening?”

So, in the midst of some dark bar, minutes before Ryan was going to take the stage, I flew into
a mental maelstrom. His question was exactly right. We hear and see what we want; we deal with what we
feel like at the moment. We go with the things that are most convenient for us, what is in our
comfort zone, what is familiar and non-threatening to us. There is nothing wrong with comfort. I, too, love the moments
where I know exactly how to act or how to respond or what to do. I love these times, but
they keep me in the present, they let me be who I am for right now and nothing more. It
is the moments when I hear some great roar and respond that I always remember. I grow and learn the
most when I see a face that holds some deep pain and I respond rather than flee because it is
far more massive than I am. When I stop to realize that this world is not necessarily about what is
most convenient to me, what makes me happiest, or how I can benefit the most is when I do the
greatest good, for myself and others.

This world and all of its problems have a lot to do with trees falling as we walk by and
our decision to listen and hear the roar or to turn away and hear nothing. Granted, we must choose what
we will hear; we cannot fight every battle, come to the rescue in every dark moment. We can, however, choose
to listen and respond to those problems that we may have the talents to assist, no matter how slight an
undercurrent they may seem.

Ryan had a great set while I sat on my stool, wondering about all the falling trees I should have
noticed but didn’t. When I laughed at the ridiculous nature of my thoughts in the midst of this bar where
one of my favorite bands was playing, I realized that running into these profound realizations and taking them for face
value is true learning—a moment where you can still say, “This is college,” even though it’s nothing like the way
you pictured it in fifth grade.

Tony Tuntasit

Cheer like a six-year-old

I was six years old and sitting on the bench in my Clorox fresh Jr. Demons uniform when Joe Wytiaz
caught the winning touchdown against Jr. Raiders, a team that featured Eric Lanctot—a kid who had quickly learned that his
3'9", 68-pound frame (there was speculated steroid use) enabled him to truck through smaller, immobile, screaming kids like myself. But
the combination of coach’s special Lanctot rules (“If you see Eric coming, run!”) and Eric’s unfortunate bout with a bad
bowl of Spaghettios allowed Joe Wytiaz to catch Tommy Cushman’s bomb (7 yards).and run frantically into the endzone only to
be stopped by the opposing goalpost. What I remember most about that day was how we acted like mature little
six-year-olds throughout the entire game, even down to the end: we whined, slapped high-fives, spit water at each other, made
insightful comments like, “Hey Coach! Tommy has his shirt on backwards!” (followed by tumultuous six-year-old laughter), but most of all
we cheered our team on. The basic six-year-old type cheer reaffirmed that a) our team was going to win, and
b) the other team was going to lose. We usually used the infamous Gregorian victory chant to knock the team
into mindless submission. It went: WE’RE GONNA WIN! WE’RE GONNA WIN! NYAH! NYAH! NYAH! NYAH! NYAH! (The tongue sticks out
at this point.) Never mind the fact that we were usually hoping for the “We’re losing by 17 touchdowns—please let
us go home” rule, rain, lightning, or a small tsunami, we still cheered on. And we liked it.

But eventually the great six-year-old cheer becomes a sign of immaturity at age 15. Taunting, poking fun, cheering, and general
emotion have become quite improper. We’re supposed to be mature. And I think that this hyper-maturity has seeped into our
academically minded brains at Davidson. Maturity is good, but as with everything, in moderation. I’m not saying that Davidson students
aren’t spirited. We’re just a bit reserved. At Florida State, people slap high-fives, whine, spit beer at each other, make
insightful comments like, “Hey Coach! Tommy has his shirt on backwards!” (followed by tumultuous six-year-old laughter), and gesticulate wildly when
the cheerleaders pull the lint off their sweaters. At Davidson, the cheerleaders have their organized routines and pre-packaged peppy cheers,
and students respond with a piercingly silent golf clap. (Clap. Clap. Oops, I didn’t mean to clap.) I can picture
it now:

Cheerleaders: One, we are the Wildcats. Two, a little bit louder. Three, we still can’t hear you. Four, MORE! MORE!
MORE! Hello? Is anyone breathing?

I temporarily broke out of the Davidson passive crowd noise syndrome earlier this year at a women’s volleyball game when
six guys and I tried to bang on the seats, perform the seven-man wave, and scream “Olé Olé” after each
point, in a concerted effort to cheer the volleyball team on. We looked kind of stupid, but we had fun.
And the players and coaches appreciated the gesture. And it’s this uninhibited, maniacal cheering, similar to the fanaticism we showed
at last year’s Southern Conference Tournament, that all the Davidson teams need and deserve. Look, the cheerleaders work hard, as
do the athletes, so the least we can do is cheer like the nutty, frenzied, irrational, childish, twisted, English/History majors
we all are. I leave you with a thought from one of the cheerleaders: “People cheer only when the good
plays happen. Maybe if people cheered some more in general, more good plays would happen.” Maybe so. At least we
could try.

before we revise 1994 HURRICANE SEASON RAN TRACK

Gull’s Nest: Bill Gullan

An accompanied summer: Reflections and pontifications

The great Tennessee Williams once wrote, “In memory everything seems to happen to music.” I can just imagine what kind
of music would accompany my memories of the summer (perhaps John Lee Hooker’s “One Bourbon, One Scotch, One Beer”). But,
just as professors advise us to let our rough drafts sit for a while before revising them, it seems far
safer and much more fruitful to reflect on the past after a suitable length of time has passed. I do
not mean the next morning, as many of us, between agonizing trips to the medicine cabinet, are so fond of
doing, but that now might be a good time to remember, say, the summer. I have been doing so recently
as I see my summer roommates around campus or I read about Washington, D.C.

Yes, I was on the Davidson-in-Washington program, but as our professor emphasized, the time outside of class was equally important.
I worked for the Young America’s Foundation, which is sort of an anti-political correctness watchdog group. My principal role was
that of director of their 16th annual summer conference. Fun was had by all, yes, but many of my most
memorable experiences occurred out and about in our nation’s capital, be they in bars, at monuments, or just on Georgetown
street corners. A good song to accompany my memories might also be Buster Poindexter’s irritating “Hot, Hot, Hot,” as D.C.
is very muggy. Our townhouse’s air conditioning worked by and large, but sweating post-shower was a frequent uncomfortable occurrence. Our
little townhouse in Georgetown fit us four very snugly and boasted a killer location, but also an excessive price tag.
Although we economized (my roommates by cooking their own food, and me by ordering extra value meals at McDonald’s), we
still could not do everything we would have liked. Going out was limited (by class, See Muggy on page 9).
