THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1994 7

The Davidsonian

LEIGH RAWDON - Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Executive Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Managing Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY - News Editor
RUSS TARVER - Assistant News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts & Living Editor
WILL COBB - Sports Editor
BROOKE McCRAE - Photography Editor
WILLIAM ROBERT - Copy Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES - Advertising Manager
SCOTT HILE - Operations Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN - Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD - Circulation Manager
ERIK SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

Sexual Healing

What would Davidson be without single-sex freshman dorms? That’s the question the SGA must ask itself tomorrow night as a resolution to make freshman dormitories co-ed by floor comes up for vote. Although the resolution passed the SGA last year, opposition in the CCRL managed to table it until the end of the year, and no action was ever taken on the issue. But with a new dean of students in power and a new group on the CCRL, the SGA can speak again and hope that, this year, its voice will be heard.

The arguments of the resolution’s naysayers are threefold. First, they champion the bonding that takes place in freshman dorms, arguing that the integrity of such institutions as flickerball rivalries will be undermined if dorms are unisex. Second, they say that freshmen might be too immature to handle having the opposite sex live in the same dorm. Third, they say that there is nothing wrong with single-sex dorms. If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it.

It is easy to see the weaknesses of all of these arguments. Bonding. What could be healthier than bonding between men and women in a situation away from court parties and classrooms? If that much bonding really happens in a dorm, it would be a crime not to use dormitories as an arena in which to improve gender relations on campus. Immaturity. A slew of colleges already have co-ed freshman dorms not only by hall but also by room. Their freshmen are the same age as our freshmen, and they seem to handle the situation fine. Maybe we should give our own students a little credit. If we want them to act like adults, we should treat them like adults. If we expect them to misbehave around the opposite sex, we should get them all drunk in a dark room with music so loud you can’t hear to talk. Oh, wait a minute, we already do that.

There’s nothing wrong. Nothing wrong? If there were nothing wrong, flyers encouraging women at Davidson to “put out” wouldn’t have papered the walls of Cannon and Richardson this weekend. If there were nothing wrong, it wouldn’t be called the “walk of shame.” If there were nothing wrong, perhaps we wouldn’t have to defend our dorm policies by saying that our own students are immature.

Of course, those who oppose a new, progressive policy would not say they were against the improvement of relationships between women and men. Something larger looms behind—a staunch dedication to preserving the old Davidson experience. Perhaps without realizing it, people who oppose changes like co-ed freshman dorms are clinging to some mythical “Davidson experience” that everyone who comes here is supposed to have. But not everyone has a blast on their flickerball team, joins a court house, or gets elected to the SGA their freshman year. We’ve heard enough people say, Davidson wouldn’t be Davidson if the guys in Little couldn’t throw back a few and talk about how great Little is. Davidson wouldn’t be Davidson if the gals on first Rich couldn’t gossip about the loose lifestyles of the gals who live upstairs. Davidson wouldn’t be Davidson if women lived in Belk. Yes, it would. Davidson would still be Davidson, and Davidson would be a much better place.

RATED R MOVIES ARE DOWN THE HALL; GET YOUR TOBACCO AT THE BOOTH; VOTING IS NEXT DOOR; AND REMEMBER YOU CAN BE ALL YOU CAN BE! TOBACCO SOLD HERE! UNCLE SAM

LETTERS

Union should not be called “weak”

To the editors,

I found Ken May’s column entitled Whose Homecoming? to be very interesting (The Davidsonian, October 3). May brings up some good ideas about Homecoming weekend and its effect on “campus unity.” I am inclined to disagree, however, with his opinions regarding social options on Homecoming weekend. He felt that there was no place to socialize, despite what he calls the “Union-sponsored dance.” He then called the Union activities “weak” and said that he would rather attend a fraternity party anyway.

I admit I am a little confused at how to take his statements. Davidson students may have a social need that should be addressed by the Union. We are willing to provide programming where needed; we try to do that every week, almost every day. For Homecoming weekend, we planned Lunar Luau for Friday night (which was reported as a success by The Davidsonian) and we planned another all-campus activity for Saturday, which ended up being called off due to weather.The Union Board felt that these events would provide good, fun, social time for the Davidson community, so we did not plan an activity for Saturday evening. As for the “Union Dance” that May refers to, I assume he means a dance sponsored by the Independent Senators, which was not a Union event. It’s too bad that he feels that our activities are “weak.” We have had great successes with the 50’s Dance, our Live Monday events, the International Festival, Hootie and the Blowfish, the films, the Odyssey, and other events too numerous to mention. The Union Board has decided to continue with quality events that we feel we can put a lot of energy into, even if it means that we leave some nights without Union programming. We realize that people do not want only to go to Union Events, but if anyone sees a need that we don’t meet, they should feel free to call us and work with us on that problem. The last thing we want is for people to feel that what we offer is weak.

Sincerely,
Nathaniel May ‘95

Distinction between races unnecessary

To the editors,

Although Ike’s most recent article contains legitimate points concerning the portrayal of historical figures, some of his arguments tend to contradict themselves. How can one make the generalization that an entire nation seems hell-bent on oppressing the African-American race, when blacks are entering the middle class at twice the rate of whites? In addition, Bailey’s critical analysis of the justice system seems solely based on the fact that it is impossible for a minority to make up half a prison population, but that’s a totally separate issue. Why does it seem amazing that “we (African-Americans) are not yet destroyed”? It seems to me that blacks can be successful because success is determined by hard work and determination, something we all have. Furthermore, it disturbs me to see slavery considered a factor in one’s chance of success since none of today’s black Americans have ever been slaves, and most Americans are descendants of people who arrived after the end of slavery (The Economist, Aug. 13-19).

Mr. Bailey also states that “this country seems to thrive on making African-Americans angry.” Such a generalization is dangerous since, assuming Ike is an American citizen, he is a part of this country, and I wouldn’t think he enjoys making himself angry. Admittedly, this country contains haters, but it also contains Americans who are not as racist as Mr. Bailey would lead us to believe. Why, if everyone has the chance and ability to succeed in this great nation of America, does there even need to be a distinction between races? Surely our educated Davidson student body should see that we need to judge each individual based not on a flag (which is, incidentally, only a piece of cloth) or color or origin, but only by the “content of their character” (MLK).

Sincerely,
John Matthews ’97

The degree of violence in video is frightening

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

Looking up from my studying last week, I noticed the direction of electronic entertainment. I am very worried. Computer games have become ruthless. Ruthless and violently warped. Do you remember Pacman and Centipede, those harmless games your mother would give you a quarter to play if you’d been good? No? No matter. The point is that I haven’t got the stomach for this modern stuff. Doom (Part II) left me huddled up on my couch, shivering like a freezing infant too dumb to know that it is cold (disturbing stuff). For 20 minutes I played the game. For 20 minutes I brutally killed the most wretched and godless things that, beneath my fingers, exploded into steaming heaps of blood and gore. And for a few minutes I was utterly taken in by the carnage—fascinated. (Disturbing stuff indeed.)

Walking to my dorm at night, I often hear the shotgun blasts of Doom echoing around the quad. Am I alone? Am I the only person at Davidson who this frightens? How much longer can this sort of thing go on before something very wrong comes of it?

Sincerely,
Geordie Schimmel ’97