16 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1994

Rev. James Forbes, the minister for one of the country's largest multicultural congregations, talks about health care, socialism, and the
Spirit's agenda.

You attended New York City’s Union Theological Seminary before you were ordained as a Pentecostal minister. How were your charismatic
reputation and southern background received in an environment well-known for its liberalism and Biblical criticism?

Interestingly enough, when I went to Union in 1958, it was the same year that the president of the school
had written an article for Life magazine claiming Pentecostalism as the third force in Christendom. This meant that it was
a good time to go there because people were expressing real interest in what this new movement was about. They
experienced me as a person who came out of that tradition and could fill in the blanks in regards to
some of the concerns they had about it. I remember an occasion when Reinhold Niebuhr warned me not to let
seminary training rob me of the fervency of my Pentecostal heritage.

As one of the largest multicultural congregations in the nation, does your church exhibit racial harmony?

Riverside is one of the most integrated contexts that I have seen. I find that there is an inclusion of
people without reference to race, but we are still moving towards qualitative, mature, Christian inclusiveness. There are some inconveniences to
inclusiveness through which we are moving toward that reality.

With your sermons broadcasted weekly throughout New York, you are preaching to a wide variety of listeners. To whom is
your outreach primarily directed?

I want to speak to people who are willing to allow the gospel mandate for justice, equality, and peace to
be a commitment they are willing to struggle with and hopefully to live by. I’m speaking to people who are
progressive in their understanding and who are committed to making the gospel real in terms of social, economic, and political
agendas and to people who are invested in the development of community which transcends race and class as qualified conditions.

What role should the church play in our lives today?

The church should be exposing areas in which we are enemies to the call of God insofar as we do
not embrace the call to love and understanding. I think the church should help people to grow into mature faith
and to mobilize people to put their faith in action in concrete ways. It should be a place that celebrates
the dream of the kingdom of God that the Bible talks about. It should be telling the truth and bearing
prophetic critique against institutions and communities which oppress people. It should help us to become islands of commitment to justice.

The suffering in the world today is overwhelming. Where is God in all of the violence and destruction?

The Christian gospel says God is with us in the struggle. God is especially with the poor who are the
objects of oppression, revealing the grace there—at least in terms of an agonizing hopefulness—that there could be a better quality
of life. God is in heaven calling us to a higher standard of human relatedness. I believe that God as
revealed in Jesus Christ is calling us forth to be able to live beyond the greed and pride which gives
rise to these conditions. So God is all over.

Have you ever been labeled a socialist because of your strong belief in national health care coverage?

I think of myself as a radical relationist with a rectifying and reconciling commitment. I know that there is a
strong anti-socialist sentiment in this nation. I am a Christian and do not need any further labels to be concerned
for a more equitable distribution of resources. I do not need anybody to apply to me any term of derision
or term that is likely to evoke a sense of horror. If we take Jesus’ message seriously, then we don’t
need any Communist or socialist to instruct us further. Jesus has done a good job. The problem is that we
are so captured by greed and pride at the pursuit of pleasure and comfort that the message of Jesus has
become odious to us, and we want to put labels on people that are designed to make us more comfortable
with our non-compliance with the word of God. Don’t try to blame some other ideology if you don’t want to
comply with the work of God.

What is your stance concerning abortion? Pro-life or pro-choice?

What are the values in both of these national labels that honor both the call to life and the recognition
of freedom and responsibility? I call both sides to a recognition that their virtues may be linked in a pro-life
and pro-choice viewpoint. A much more sophisticated approach must be taken to making such moral decisions. So don’t give me
these “either/or” perspectives. Let’s get deeper. And I think the Christian faith gives us resources to respond to these things.

James Forbes "LET'S GET DEEPER" Photo by Kim Kreiling

It is often said that ourGeneration lacks direction because we have no heroes to follow. I wonder if the real
problem is that we are not looking in the right places. This worthy candidate, however, will not pass us by
without ample consideration. The moment Reverend Forbes walked through the door of the Davidson Village Inn, something about him struck
me with surprise. Wide-eyed and speechless, I attempted to approach him for an interview, but he had already beat me
to our introduction. “And welcome to Davidson, Rev. James Forbes, all the way from Riverside Church,” he exclaimed to me
with a smile and an outstretched hand. As we sat down, I noticed that I approached.

REFLECTIONS ON THE INTERVIEW

The ordinary couch with unnecessary delicacy. When he spoke, I found myself hanging on his words like they were drops
of gold. Not until I heard him preach at DCPC Sunday morning did I understand why the word “royalty” had
kept coming to my mind during the interview the night before. In his sermon entitled “Standing on Holy Ground,” Forbes
recalled the story of Moses’ encounter with the burning bush. He proclaimed that as Moses left the mountain anointed by
the Holy Spirit, so can we be dwelling places for God. Listening to his words, I realized that, according to
his teaching, the reverence he elicited from me was more likely my response to the presence of God within him.

“The anointing of the Holy Spirit is the central paradigm for our discussion,” he wrote in his book entitled *The
Holy Spirit and Preaching*, and the way that he answered my questions confirmed the truth of his demanding statement. “Let’s
get deeper,” he kept saying in place of the usual, simplified responses. Forbes believes that if people today are unified
by the presence of God in their lives, they are capable of revitalizing the quality of life that was lost
with the emergence of the industrial revolution. “We must recognize,” he says, “that forces at work in our culture to
limit the spiritual dynamic of life require concerted opposition from all traditions.” I assume from the fact that he has
come to speak tonight and tomorrow night in Love Auditorium that Reverend Forbes is inviting Davidson College to join him
in this fight for truth and for a better quality of life for all individuals.

God the Father and God the Son are familiar concepts to us; why do you emphasize God the Holy Spirit?
The scientific age causes us to lose confidence in the sense of spiritual depth for ourselves. We’ve come to be
surface dwellers. While I am interested in its professional competency, I am also interested in where the new generation of
college students finds nurture for its values and—beyond that—where it finds strength to live with the discipline that accompanies values.
Everybody needs to discover: to whom am I accountable, from whence do I derive my strength in the hard places
of life, and what gives me the moral strength to pursue values when there would be a personal disinclination? What
binds me to community so that I am not locked in an egocentric and narcissistic concentration on my own self
and my own things? What pulls me beyond the self and, at the same time, fulfills the self? What gives
me the alertness to evil and oppression? Now that’s talking about spirit. Where do we get the wind to propel
us into the deep waters of genuine compassion and attention to people? I lament that the price we had to
pay for scientific advance was the loss of faith. I would like for college students to say that a new
maturity begins with a spiritual foundation.

You have countless invitations to preach at churches everywhere. Why have you chosen to come to Davidson, and what message
do you have for the students here? I have a great deal of respect for Davidson as a place that
is cultivating new leadership for the nation. Davidson alumni are found all over. It makes sense to me that if
these are the people who are going to be shaping the new society, I’d like to try to impact them.
I want to give them the sense that life that is lived apart from commitment to God does not reach
the level that God intended. We are living in an advanced stage of secularization, and I want to talk to
people about a faith that can make a difference to them. I wish to talk about the quality of life
that ought to exist on a campus that is preparing people for national leadership. What are the values in this
community? What is the vision these people have? I want to be a part of that conversation. What kind of
world do they want to live in? I want to talk to them about getting involved in helping to uplift
the quality of life in the nation and particularly to talk about health care. Otherwise, I want to see what
the Spirit’s agenda is.

BY KIMBERLY KREILING
