SPORTS. 14 ~ MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1994

Women’s Soccer captures Southern Conference Title
By Kristy Ford

After sealing the regular season title last weekend, the women’s soccer team traveled to the first women’s Southern Conference tournament
in Greensboro as the number one seed. The tournament was held in conjunction with the men’s tournament at Bryan Park
Soccer Complex. The Wildcats held true to their top ranking and won the tournament without surrendering a single goal.

There were only four teams in the tournament, and the Wildcats faced Appalachian State in the opening round on Saturday.
At halftime, the team had only taken four shots on goal, and the game was scoreless. Although the Wildcats dominated
the second half, rarely allowing the ball to cross over into their defensive half, they were unable to convert on
corners or open field shots. At the end of regulation with no score, the game went into overtime, which consists
of two 15-minute periods.

Sophomore Leslie Griener scored her first goal of the season on a pass from Ellen Sprinkle 7:15 into the first
overtime period. For the remainder of the period, Coach Kevin Hundley could be heard on the sideline trying to keep
his players focused, “We need to score as much as we need to keep them from getting an easy goal.”
The Wildcats scored again :40 into the second overtime period on a shot by Lucia Plosser from Heather Wineberg to
seal their advancement to the final game on Sunday. The Mountaineers took only six shots to Davidson's 33.

In the finals, the Wildcats faced Georgia Southern, who advanced by beating Furman 1-0. Davidson beat Georgia Southern in both
regular season matches and completed the sweep with a 2-0 win over the Eagles for the Southern Conference Championship. Freshman
standout Amy Kanoff and Lora Chavis scored for the Wildcats en route to capturing the first women’s soccer Southern Conference
championship.

The Wildcats ended the season winning seven of their last eight games to improve their record to 10-10-1, going .500
for the season. The team was chosen as the preseason favorite. After their slow start this season (3-9-1), no one
expected the team to break the .500 mark, much less win the Southern Conference. However, as the women came on
strong in the scoring department, talk of the team winning the tournament returned and the Wildcats rallied to fulfill the
predictions.

Going into the tournament, midfielder Claudia Lombard, midfielder Amy Kanoff, forward Heather Wineberg, and Ellen Sprinkle combined for 82 of
the team's 129 points. Lombard was second in the conference in scoring with 11 goals and 27 points before the
tournament began. Also on the scoring leaders list was...

See Soccer continued on page 15

Swimming 3 for 4 in weekend of competition
By William Robert

The Davidson men’s and women’s swimming and diving teams ended up with three wins and 10 school records after back-to-back
days of competitions against Emory University and College of Charleston. Both teams earned victories against Emory on Saturday. The men
outscored the Eagles 154 to 87 while the women pulled out a close victory of 115 to 112.

Davidson College records were broken in six events. For the women, freshman Heather Sweeney reset the 100 breaststroke mark with
a 1:11.71 after going a 2:12.87 in the 200 IM for her second record of the meet. Junior diver Meg
Bentley also reset the record she set last weekend with a total of 210.65 points on the 1-meter board. On
the men’s side, freshman Freddy Schnell and Matt Buck each reset one mark — Schnell with 54.78 in the 100
backstroke and Buck with a 59.28 in the 100 breaststroke — before the two combined with sophomore Tim Lim and
junior captain Corey Bean to capture the 400 medley relay record with a 3:37.85.

Individual wins were earned for the women by freshman Allison Beebe in the 1000 freestyle and 100 fly, sophomore Susanne
Herring in the 100 and 200 free, freshman Kelly Bolterstein in the 50 free, and Sweeney in the 200 IM
and 500 free. Other top performers included freshmen Emily Kuhlman and Katie Palmer and junior Jennifer Schuetz.

For the men, victories were earned by freshman Michael Scarbo in the 500 and 1000 free, Schnell in the 200
free and 100 back, Buck in the 200 IM and 100 breast, and sophomore diver Michael Hart on the 3-meter
board. Other excellent performances were turned in by Lim, Bean, freshmen David Maddux and Matt Lake, sophomore Bo Craig, and
junior Mike Rogerson.

On Sunday, the men earned another victory against College of...

See Swim continued on page 15

Photo by Rob Kosicki
Kevin Holsworth passes just before being tackled.

Football comes oh so close, again with 9-7 loss against CentreBy Jonathan Whitcomb

Finally returning home for a game against Centre on Parents’ Weekend, the football team was hoping the friendly confines of
Richardson Field might provide some inspiration. But several offensive mishaps doomed the Wildcats, as they fell 9-7 to the Colonels.
Evan Hjerpe kicked a 22-yard field goal with four minutes 40 seconds remaining to seal the win for Centre. Quarterback
Kevin Holzworth had another strong game, completing 16 of 33 for 162 yards with just one interception. Chris Leak continued
his strong performance after shifting from linebacker to running back, gaining 70 yards on 20 carries. Davidson took an early
7-0 lead on a 5-yard touchdown pass by Holzworth to Mike Cowles. The score was set up by an interception
by Cedric West, who returned the ball to the Centre 5-yard-line. The pickoff was one of three interceptions in the
game, giving Davidson six for the season.

But in the second quarter, the Wildcats, who haven’t scored more than 14 points all season, blew several chances to
break the game open. They had three trips inside the Centre, but couldn’t score. The defense stepped up and shut
down the Colonels, producing some turnovers in the second period. Kevin Graham came up with an interception, and A.R. Barrington
recovered a fumble. In the first half, Davidson outgained Centre 184-60 yards. Davidson (1-7) had a first-and-goal situation at the
Centre 4, and then had fourth down at the 2. But the Colonels managed to block a Sean Callahan field
goal attempt.

Centre (7-2) started to take control in the third quarter. On a fourth down, from their 28, the Colonels faked
a punt and punter David Clark completed a 38-yard pass to Montas Allen, moving the ball to the Davidson 34.
Five plays later, Joey Johnson dove in from the 2, but Hjerpe missed the extra point. In the fourth quarter,
Davidson’s inability to score earlier came back to haunt them as Hjerpe booted through his game-winning kick.

By Matt Pitzer

After three years of coming oh-so-close, the Madawg’ men's flickerball team thought this was their year. And it was. They
overcame a close loss in the playoffs to KA and won five straight games in the losers’ bracket to capture
the IMAC championship with a 36-20 win over SAE. Captain and quarterback Steve Krause was the star, throwing for four
touchdowns and rushing for two others. Madawg’ has maintained the same core of players since their freshman season when they
came together on the Basement Belk team.

“We were all just really relieved to finally win it,” Krause said. “We felt all along that we were the
best team this year, and if we hadn’t won, we would have been really devastated.” After finishing as runners-up in
their freshman and junior years and taking third place in their sophomore year, Madawg’ knew it had to beef up
its defense to capture the title. The team added Casey Otis and Brian Vandersea as part of that effort. “In
guys' flickerball,” Krause said, “defense wins games. Our offense had been there all along, but we knew our defense had
to get better.”

In the final three games, and especially in the championship game, that defense performed very well in the clutch. Madawg’
found itself trailing at halftime in each of the last three games, but the defense stepped up after the break
and allowed just one touchdown in that trio of games. In the title game, Otis and Thad Reece provided a
very powerful rush, and Jay Jennings and Matt Melton came through with big interceptions. Playing together with the same basic
group of men for four years definitely had its advantages for Madawg’.

“It was a thing where all of us had been playing together for so long that everyone had a niche,”
Krause said. “We never really talked strategy, it just all fell into place. Everybody kind of created their own position.”
In their last year, the team racked up a record of 11-1 to finish with an estimated record over the
four years of 30-10. The team had a little intrasquad rivalry going in the girls’ flickerball.

By Andrew Cole

The Sailing team traveled to Florida last weekend looking for another strong showing. The team has been recording excellent finishes.
Unfortunately, they did not meet up to their high expectations, with a sixth place finish out of eight teams. The
result improved on last year’s seventh place finish. The College of Charleston finished ahead of the pack, followed by Florida,
Eckerd, Clemson, South Florida, Davidson, The Citadel, and Rawlins. The team will finish the fall season in two weeks at
the National Intersectional Event in Charleston, S.C.

Statistics

FOOTBALL
D C
First Downs 10 11
Rushes-Yards 39-98 35-93
Passing 183 162
Comp-Att-Int 10-25-1 16-33-1
Punts 8-31 7-36
Fumbles-Lost 1-1 4-0
Penalties-Yards 8-55 8-76
Time of Possession 29:41 30:19
