THE DAVIDSONIAN

Fashion Plate Resurrected
By Cat Grimmell

Another school year well on its way! And thankfully, by the blessed interventions of the gods and goddesses that be,
a new line of fall fashions. A few hints: boots are in, knee-high in any color, worn with shorter hemlines
and tights; punk reigns again; and, alas, the early 80's plasticy pants and Pat Benetar cool will soon be seen
in suburban malls. Always creative, the rulers of the runways of Paris, Rome, and New York have invented many more
ways to fulfill the obsessive consumer’s need to be hip. (Ouch! self-criticism hurts). But since my personal obsession continues, never
fear; I will still try to bring you the best of the best, (and the truly lame) from the world
of high fashion.

But first, as students recover from the trials of moving back to college, I will focus on what is going
on in the world of interiors. Last year, chintz was officially declared back from the dead. As interior designers begin
to pick the floweriest of the chintziest material to decorate rooms, another decorating movement is also being renewed. The movement
toward oriental decorating, at the height of its popularity in the 70's, is being revived by our generation of interior
designers. Vogue recently declared the hottest type of home designs are those with multicultural influences (Sorry, Gullan, it’s everywhere now).
What does that mean? It means that designers have started to look to far-off places for their inspiration, and that
these cultural interpretations of fabric and paper represent a multitude of ethnicities blended into a myriad of color and consonance.

Our generation’s designers represent in their creations the societies in which they live. I hope that, one day, each of
us can find the type of beauty in our relationships across cultural lines that are reflected in these new, hot
interiors. (I had better ask my editor if a fashion column is allowed to have meaning before they print this).
Asian prints and tapestries abound in these new designs, and this move toward cultural interiors has created another interesting phenomenon.
Elite furniture stores which once specialized in only the finest antique reproductions now are carrying only the finest reproductions of
many of the items college dorm rooms have contained since the 60's. Welcome to grunge furniture!

For many years, college students have returned from abroad with strange decorations—treasures, and, of course, the ever-popular tapestry. So, in
an attempt to see how Davidson students are keeping abreast of the latest decorating trends, I began my research braving
the staircases of Chambers. The question I asked was: What is the coolest thing you have in your room? I’ve
found that after extensive interviews Davidson students’ responses could be grouped into three categories:

THE SENTIMENTAL:
Hal Dougherty: My Perry Fu Fu Dog!
Georgia Ringle: A mouse made out of clay that my daughter gave me.
Nick Troiano: A little troll wearing an Irish soccer uniform that someone gave me yesterday.
Senior Bob Feezor: Freshman girls! (What can I say y’all, the guy’s all heart).
Jane Brock: A very cute boy (Hmmmmm... will suffice).

THE MODEST:
Jen Williams: Myself!
Amanda Bryan: Me!

THE TRULY BIZARRE:
Russ Tarver: A big handcrafted ceramic owl with these really

Music Review
Forrest Gump Soundtrack
Almost like a box of chocolates
By Tom Bavis

Almost everything about Forrest Gump is addictive. The images, stories, and music of the summer’s biggest film have grabbed such
a tight hold of viewers’ imaginations that many have dropped $20 to get the only memento anyone can now take
home with them. The Forrest Gump soundtrack describes itself on the cover as “32 American Classics on 2 CDs.” Even
limiting itself to American artists from the 50’s, 60’s, and 70’s, the makers of this collection had an immense catalog
from which to pick the perfect period pieces.

The first disc begins with one of the biggest songs of the film, The King’s “Hound Dog.” From there the
first CD meanders through the first decade and a half of the rock n’ roll era in loose chronological order.
Most of the highlights of the first disc coincide with the end of the 60’s, Forrest’s post-Vietnam years. Buffalo Springfield’s
“For What it’s Worth” waxes ominous of the social unrest to come: “There’s battle lines being drawn/ Nobody’s right if
everybody’s wrong...Everybody stop, hey, what’s that sound/ everybody look what’s going ‘round.” “Fortunate Son” by Creedence Clearwater Revival spits the
venom of full-blown bitterness towards the war and its draft. Most of the rest of disc one, as well as
the first half of disc two, take you through the images of the sixties, from its most ideal moments (The
Byrds’ “Turn! Turn! Turn!”) to its nightmarish fantasies (The Doors’ “Break on Through”).

Forrest Gump begins to lose some musical steam as the 70’s arrive. The standouts from the slim pickings of the
cheesiest decade of Forrest’s life: Three Dog Night’s “Joy to the World” and Lynyrd Skynyrd’s “Sweet Home Alabama.” Disc two’s
redemption comes in the form of the last two popular songs as the eighties appear on the horizon. The first,
“On the Road Again,” suits Forrest’s “jogging” years perfectly. Bob Seger’s “Against the Wind” provides the soundtrack with the perfect
tear-jerking finale.

Like the periods of popular music from which they are pulled, the selections for the Forrest Gump soundtrack miss almost
as often as they hit. In particular, one should flee from Jackie DeShannon’s painful “What the World Needs Now is
Love” and Gladys Knight’s disco diatribe “I’ve Got to Use My Imagination.” But the occasional disappointment should be expected from
the story of a man who believes that “life is just a box of chocolates—you never know what you’re going
to get.”messed up eyes (I didn’t ask). Kurt Holmes: Legos. Alex Purvis: An Animal House poster of John Belushi. Josh
Worsham and Steve LeNard: our blow-up love doll (This item is extremely useful in New Jersey due to the express
lane for cars with more than one passenger, and I’m sure that’s exactly what they were talking about... ummm... yeah...
exactly).

Homecoming
By Beth Lindsey

Where can you find pep rallies, parades, luaus, dancers, gymnasts, cheerleaders, and even sky divers all in one place? The
answer is undisputedly Homecoming weekend at Davidson College. This weekend will be one filled with events for everyone to enjoy:

ON THE SCENE
Rachel takes a new approach with "On the Scene." Let her know what you think about the calendar.

ART
During this week, you might want to go to the Visual Arts Center to check out the two main exhibits—the
Annual Faculty Exhibition and the Patrick Donley Exhibition. Bring your whole family! See George Weld’s review of the Donley exhibition
in this issue. In Davidson, the Christa Faut gallery is featuring paintings, drawings, clay sculptures, and photography. Open 10-5 daily,
10-2 weekends. If you’re sick of the old school, check out this. At the Mint Museum in Charlotte, on Randolph
Road, “Southwestern Native Ceramics,” and “Japan: The Nature of Now,” video art installation, through Nov. 6.

THEATER & MOVIES
On Thursday, September 22 in Hodson Hall at 8:00 p.m., alumna Donna Peters ‘89 will perform her one-woman show. This
woman is theatrical and an alumna to boot. See article in this section. If you want to go to Charlotte,
Baby With the Bathwater is being performed by the Actor’s Theatre of Charlotte at 8 p.m. Sep 23 through October
8. Call (800) 922-6431. Mrs. Doubtfire will be shown on Sunday at 8 p.m. in the 900 Room, then again
at 9:30 on Wednesday. I’m particularly excited about the Charlotte Film Society series at the Manor Theatre & the Mint
Museum this year. Most films will be screened at 5 and 9:15 p.m. at the Manor, but a few will
be shown at the Mint Museum. This is a good chance to see the films that never come to Charlotte,
like the recent “Luna Park,” (Sep. 25), “The Last Days of Chez Nous” (Oct. 2), “Go Fish” (Sep. 27) and
“Spanking the Monkey” (Dec. 18).

MUSIC
On Tuesday, Sep. 20, cellist Alan Black, principal cellist for the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra, will perform in Hodson Hall at
8:00 p.m. In Charlotte, James Taylor will be performing on Sep. 24 at 7:30 p.m. at Blockbuster Pavilion.

MISCELLANEOUS & SPEAKERS
The Dean Rusk Program sponsors a lecture on Faculty/Staff Travels in West Africa this Monday in the 900 Room at
7:30 p.m. Davidson is thinking of starting a study abroad program there, so find out more about it. Another Dean
Rusk event, on Wednesday, September 21 in the 900 Room at 7:30 p.m., will be a panel of students speaking
about their experiences as Medical Volunteers in Developing Countries. There will be a Panel-Making Project for the AIDS quilt sponsored
by Love of Learning in the Chambers Gallery at 7:00 p.m. on Wednesday. On Thursday, Sep. 22 you might want
to check out Robert Devaney, mathematician from Boston University. He will be speaking on “The Fractal Geometry of the Mandelbrot
Set” in Chambers Gallery at 8:30 p.m. If you think the Pink Floyd Berlin Wall concert was good, you should
see this guy rap about fractals. He’ll leave you begging for more...

Have you ever checked out the Coffee House in the Union? It happens every Tuesday morning from 8:30 to 11:00
and for a dime you can eat bagels, donuts, juice, coffee. Meet your friends! Twenty-One Year Old Night - This
happens every Tuesday and although I’m a senior, during my time at Davidson I will be forever denied the privilege
of this activity due to age restrictions. Annually, at Lunar Luau, Davidson students gather at Richardson Field to observe the
complex astronomical phenomenon which occurs in Davidson. Food, games, and entertainment will be provided.

Friday. The Diamond Club, Charlotte’s sophisticated gentleman’s club, offers five-star adult entertainment and a free lunch buffet. 5624 Pineville Rd.
A definite must. For details call 896-7107.

Oktoberfest! In Uptown Charlotte, Sep. 30, Oct. 1 & 2. Come do the chicken dance and see three large German
bands. Bratwursts galore, sauerkraut, German beer. Wear your lederhosen and bring an appetite for large frothy beverages.

HOMECOMING SEP. 23-25!
Compiled by Rachel Newcomb

Students and faculty, parents and alums. With a pep rally and Lunar Luau beginning the festivities on Friday evening, Saturday
brings a lawn party, bands, a parade, and the Homecoming football game. Despite initial concern over the number of activities
taking place this weekend, the Davidson community remains committed to all events taking place. Patterson Court Council, initially discouraged with
Lunar Luau being placed on the same weekend as Homecoming, “as a consensus did not think it would be as
effective.” However, the PCC, according to President Josh Worsham, “still supports (Lunar Luau), but there probably will not be an
individual booth from each house.”

The festivities begin with a pep rally at 8 p.m. Friday evening on Richardson field featuring performances by the Top
Cat dancers, the cheerleaders, the Cats Pajamas gymnastics group, and of course the mascots - Kitty and Wildcat. The performances
have been choreographed by Karen Brown-Sherrill of the Academy of Dance. Lunar Luau will immediately follow the pep rally on
Richardson field. Representatives of Patterson Court will be coordinating booths as well as sponsoring games and refreshments from 8:30 until
10:30. On Saturday the “Lawn Party” will begin at 11:00 and continue until 1:30. A Davidson-style golf course will be
set up thanks to the participation of the freshmen halls in addition to other games. There will also be a
main stage with an acoustical band along with a ham.

See Fun continued on Page 13.
