THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1994

International conference on Hispanic women writers to take place in October

By Kelly M. Dixson

Approximately 160 lecturers from around the United States and other countries including Spain, Australia, Argentina, Mexico, Puerto Rico, and Chile
will arrive on campus Thursday, October 20 to participate in a conference entitled “Modalidades de Representación del sujeto Auto/Bio/Grafico Femenino.”
The conference, sponsored by the AT&T Visiting Scholars Program, marks the 20th anniversary of the Association of Hispanic Women Writers
and is the first conference on the Hispanic auto/biographical female subject to be held in the United States. Davidson’s own
Dr. Magdalena Maiz-Peña is the director of the event, and Dr. Luis Peña is the Conference Co-director. Many other students
and professors at Davidson will participate in various ways.

The themes of the conference include auto/biographical writing from poetic self-portraits to testimonials, including fictional letter-writing and the postmodern subject
in film and fiction and the auto/biographical “I” in diaries and all other genres. Although related to Hispanic, Spanish-American, Luso-Brazilian,
Afro-Latin American, and U.S. Latina writers, the lectures will be interesting to all because their provocative frameworks reach beyond any
language.

Between Thursday and Saturday there will be 40 different sessions, with each session including presentations by three or four different
lecturers. Many of the presentations will be in English, and anyone in the Davidson community is encouraged to attend. Highlights
of the program include:

Thursday: a session on creative writing (invites artists from various countries to share their own autobiographical works);
Friday: a session on eroticism and pornography, a roundtable discussion entitled “The Personal and the Professional: Women in Hispanic Studies,”
a session on literary theoretical frames, and a session on the subversion of the female subject in film;
Saturday: a session on cultural autobiography from the margins and a panel on Yo La Peor De Todas, a video
about Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz directed by the Argentinian filmmaker M. L. Bemberg.

Davidson professors giving presentations include Professor Luis Peña, Professor Barbara Simerka, and Professor Ramón Figueroa. The Keynote Address, sponsored by
the Public Lectures Committee, will be given Friday night at 8:30 in Vail Commons and is open to the Davidson
College community. The speaker is Sylvia Molloy, the Albert Schweitzer Professor in the Humanities at New York University, and her
lecture will be entitled “Troubling Mirrors: Biography/Autobiography in Teresa de la Parra.” Molloy is the author of several books, including
At Face Value: Autobiographical Writing in Spanish America (1991), Women’s Writing in Latin America (1991), and the latest book on
Jorge Luis Borges entitled Signs of Borges (1994). Dr. Maiz-Peña names Molloy as the leading critic on Hispanic autobiography as
well as one of the most outstanding feminist critics. Peña states, “If I pick up a book on Latin American
feminist criticism and Sylvia Molloy is not cited, I know to put it down.”

The conference will also include a book exhibit and the opportunity to order books from several small independent presses, including
one from New York and one from Chile. Students who are interested in volunteering at the conference should contact Dr.
Maiz-Peña.

Group to study art history in England

By Randy Hartwell

When Art History Professor Larry Ligo says “there are all sorts of advantages” to participating in the Spring 1995 Art
History Seminar in England, he means it. Like its sibling programs in France and Italy, the seminar in England emphasizes
the need to study works in their original forms rather than to analyze discolored slides. The 14 students who participate
will have the opportunity to study the Gothic cathedral at Canterbury, see aShakespearean play in Stratford-upon-Avon, and view works by
Monet in Paris. On the same day classes begin at Davidson in January, students in the group will begin work
on three “lengthy” papers covering topics in each of the three classes Ligo will teach: one on the Gothic cathedral,
one on nineteenth-century painting, and another on the history of art in Britain. These papers will then be used to
team-teach the rest of the group at various sites during the course of the program. “When we actually stand there,
you [the student] will tell us about it,” Ligo says. For instance, a student might present a paper on prehistoric
England at Stonehenge or one on early iron development in Birmingham. During jaunts from their hotel in the Bloomsbury district
of London, the group will embark on “study tours” of northern and southern England, where they will stay at country
estates now operated as retreat centers by various church organizations. Three weeks will be spent in Paris studying paintings at
the museums there as well as the origins of Gothicism at St. Denis, Chartres, and Notre Dame. “All three courses
will be as we travel; we’ll have to be a bit schizophrenic,” says Ligo. Students will also have time to
complete work on their fourth course, an independent study, which can be in any approved discipline. Ligo stresses that students
need not be art history majors to apply. The Art History Seminar in England counts for a full semester’s credit
and costs the same as a semester at Davidson. It is open to sophomores, juniors, and seniors. While there is
no set application due date, Ligo says the final decision will be made soon, so that students who are not
selected but want to spend the spring abroad will have time to look into other programs. Interested students should contact
Dr. Ligo at the Visual Arts Center.

Gear Up For Fall At...

Bring in this ad for 15% OFF any fleece or 10% OFF any waterproof, breathable jackets! Sale good through October
10.

Students enjoy the fall weather playing ultimate frisbee. Photo by Brooke McRae

COSEN students make presentations
By Courtauld McBryde

Three Davidson women, Alison Dorbandt, Valerie Whitlock, and Melissa Remes participated in Carolinas-Ohio Science Education Network's summer scholars research program.
Eight colleges from Ohio and North Carolina, including Davidson College, make up the COSEN network. COSEN provides women and minorities
with programs in scientific fields. Three students from each college or university were involved with this particular COSEN summer program.
The students swapped schools with other COSEN affiliates for ten weeks last summer. The participants presented their COSEN summer research
reports last Tuesday. Their presentations were a warm-up for the COSEN conference this weekend at Duke University.

Alison Dorbandt, a senior biology major, spent her summer at Duke University's Department of Cellular Biology. Her research focused on
protein kinesis and chick embryonic heart cells. Valerie Whitlock, a senior chemistry major, conducted her research at Kenyon College. Melissa
Remes researched how temperature and acidity affect feather digestion in Bacillus licheniformis under the Department of Zoology at Ohio Wesleyan
University.

The New Strawberry Shortcake!
Dairy Queen has a cool new treat for you! Introducing the new Strawberry Shortcake. Made with soft-serve or non-fat frozen
yogurt, moist yellow cake, and rich strawberry topping. But hurry to a participating Dairy Queen store because something this good
can't last long.

We Treat You Right
Dairy Queen stores are proud to be part of the COSEN network which is for children.
