RTS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1994 By Jonathan Brooks

Carol Duncan, an art history professor from Ramapo College of New Jersey, was the second of three art lecturers taking part in the art lecture series. Professor Larry Ligo regards the series as “a celebration of the beginnings of a new building.” According to Ligo, each of the three lecturers, Elsen, Duncan, and Tucker, were selected on the basis of two criteria: outstanding scholarship in a particular field and exceptional speaking ability on the undergraduate level.

Carol Duncan surprised Davidson art professors and students Monday evening by focusing not on feminist issues in art (her specialty), but on the elitism present in museums that caters to “well-bred Anglo-Saxon stock.” Ligo feels that Duncan did not present a lecture “inferior to another she might have given,” but a lecture that was different than the expectations of students and professors attending. Duncan’s lecture enabled students to ask new questions about art museums by offering an enlightening lecture on their nature. Her insights focused on the purported function of the museum and its actual role. For Duncan, a museum may be observed “not simply as collections... but as a totality... an order of collections, not just containers for other monuments.” The museum functions as a backdrop for us, as we tend to our responsibility as a “performer within its ritual space.” Duncan further asserted that “an ideal observer will respond to its cues and play its scenario.” In her opinion, such an ideal observer may exist, but the ideal museum is nowhere to be found. Moreover, she maintained that the problem with museums is that they fail to operate as a ritual space. Duncan’s interest, thus, lay in exploring “what they say they do and what they do without saying.”

In the United States, the museum age began in the late-19th century with the founding of the Boston and New York Art Museums in 1890. Established under American democratic ideals, the art museum was supposed to be a place of learning and “uplifting pleasure.” The ideal museum’s aim was to offer the common citizen “palaces with treasures.” Instead, according to Professor Duncan, they have evolved into a parading place for rich sponsors. Of course, as Duncan noted, the American museum is nothing more than a European import; so, although it professes egalitarian ideals, it has not altered that much from its European cousin. Carol Duncan explained that the Louvre in France functioned as a “potential political power” and made “visible Republican ideals of the state.” In America, the museums do not so much express the ideals of the government as they glorify the millionaires that made the museum possible. The museums in the early 20th century claimed to be “of the people, by the people, and for the people” as they professed in handouts and advertisements for the museums. Inside, however, they have evolved into a parading place for rich sponsors.

See Museum on page 11

Museums: Public spaces or glorification of rich?
Photo by Amy Laukkanen
Carol Duncan spoke Monday night in Perkins about the elitism in public museums.

A Fancy Dress at Flowers decorated the Union on Valentine's Day.

Students vent feelings on dating
By Katy Moore

With topics ranging from interracial dating to Davidson’s practice of eating in separate houses, the dating forum held on Wednesday night in the 900 Room was a success. A panel of six students sat behind a curtain and, with disguised voices, discussed and answered questions about dating at Davidson. Don and Meg Kimmel facilitated the discussion and opened the forum with descriptions of their own college dating experiences in the 1950s and 60s. Dr. Kimmel described a dating scene alien to the current college generation: the male initiated the date, picked up the female, and served as the woman’s “caretaker” for the evening. He also claimed that college students often were not sexually active in the 1950s. His wife, Mrs. Kimmel, said that although students in the '60s would often get drunk at parties and maybe even have sex, people attended those parties as couples. The Kimmels could not understand why most Davidson students do not date and instead find the people they want to see at parties on Patterson Court. The couple then turned to the panel for answers.

Photo by Katie Tobin
The first question, posed to men on the panel, asked: “What do Davidson women want in a relationship?” The responses varied.One male said, “someone to marry.” Another disagreed: “Women want someone they can have a good time with... a sensitive guy.” The Kimmels then directed the same question to the female panelists: “What do men want in a relationship?” The three females agreed that men wanted “a good time — sex.” Next, the panelists were asked to pinpoint Davidson’s dating problem. One male said that the problem lies in “the nerd factor.” He

See Sex on page 11

Davidson?
By Carrie Blackburn

Rivalry among the Union and the seven Patterson Court fraternities characterizes parties during Davidson’s three major social weekends: Homecoming, Midwinters, and Spring Frolics. An all-campus dance, sponsored by all student organizations instead of individual fraternities, would enhance the social milieu at Davidson. Independents and Greeks could socialize and women could participate in social weekends without having to wait for an invitation.

Other schools welcome all-campus dances as an addition to the usual fraternity parties and as a means of integrating the entire student body. Washington and Lee, a small Southern university similar in many ways to Davidson, hosts an annual ball called “Fancy Dress.” This collegiate prom has been a tradition for over 50 years and features a four-day entertainment extravaganza beginning Wednesday night with fraternity parties, continuing Thursday with a band performance and concluding Saturday with more parties. What distinguishes "Fancy Dress" from other party weekends, though, is the formal ball held Friday evening, which is open to all students who purchase tickets for around $70-$80. The event is partially funded by alums who remember the event fondly. Often, nostalgic alums even return for the weekend.

Washington and Lee’s “Fancy Dress” is organized by a Student Activities Board chaired by three students. Under each chair is a sub-committee responsible for decorating a portion of the gym where the dance is held. In addition, 60 students are hired as contract workers to help paint and build the decorations. The “Fancy Dress” committee also decides on a theme, mails invitations to all students, and sells T-shirts and other memorabilia. Sub-committee chair Goose Garrigius, a junior at W&L, says, “Fancy Dress has been ranked one of the top social events in Southern colleges and universities.” Since 80% of the men at W&L are Greek, the smashing success of W&L’s “Fancy Dress” weekend dispels the myth that an all-campus dance on a Greek campus is doomed to failure. Dartmouth, another school with an active Greek system, also pulls off successful all-campus functions including a formal dance.

See Party on page 12

Responding to images--fear, misunderstanding, & confusion
By Josh Larned

On Thursday, February 17, Davidson Professor Shaw Smith led an enlightening discussion on art censorship with a small group of students. The talk, sponsored by the Solidarity Committee and the Davidson College Union, proved a fitting culmination to the events of Solidarity Week. Smith began his lecture by posing a question surrounding the problem of censorship: “Why do we respond to certain images the way we do?” He challenged his audience to reevaluate their attitudes and conceptions towards the visual arts. Partially relying upon David Friedburg’s The Power of Images, Smith examined four problem areas which collectively create the framework of art censorship.

First, he commented on the phenomenon of Protestantism as an element of art suppression. As Protestantism tends to be iconoclastic, an ultimate separation exists between word and image. This rift creates a “fear of imagery” which penetrates the fabric of society, particularly in the American South. Smith cited the lack of free-standing sculpture and the unadorned interior of DCPC as examples of how Protestantism limits expression on Davidson’s campus.

Second, Smith acknowledged the problem of recognition and subsequent rejection when approaching a work of art. This tendency toward repulsion often causes the viewer to misunderstand a work and, thus, he feels inclined to suppress it.

The third problem, according to Smith, is a confusion between image and prototype. When a particular version of a work is taken for its prototype, an interpretation can result that is contrary to the artist’s intentions. Such “mental operations” require deconstruction in order to reverse any feelings towards censorship on the part of the viewer. “Slow your perceptions down,” Smith pleaded with the audience in an effort to get them to see certain works of art in a different light.

The final problem outlined by Smith was that of the “Father and Son.” Western Christendom, with

See Censor on page 11