4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 25, 1994

WALT attempts to revive; DCTV re-organizes
By Russ Tarver and Mary Laura Moretz

WALT - For several years, students have been trying to start a radio station that would provide an alternative to
the classical station WDAV. Under the call letters WALT, the station would air music catering to students and might even
act as a forum for student commentary.

In October of the 1992-93 school year, a group of students began holding weekly meetings in order to discuss the
possibilities of such a station. College Union Director William Brown wrote a memo about the student interest to Dean Terry,
suggesting that the matter be further examined. Terry responded by supporting the formation of an official committee involving faculty, staff,
students, and representatives from WDAV. The committee met for the first time on March 29 of this year.

Brown explains the purpose of the committee as being to “define clearly the mission of the station, as to who
we’re trying to reach and what we’re trying to accomplish.”

“When I came here as a freshman, I expected there to be a student alternative station,” says Catherine Rivenbark, student
member of the WALT committee. “Most colleges I knew had them. All we had was a classical one.” Her interest
in the communications field pushed her to pursue projects involving the founding of such a station. She worked at WDAV
as an announcer but “really wanted to work with music other than classical.”

Brown, Rivenbark, and the rest of the committee are weighing the options of airing the station. Methods discussed include FM,
AM, cable, and carrier-current. They are working to “take the best advantage of the energy that people have, at the
most reasonable cost,” said Brown.

“The people who want to have a station want to have it today,” says Brown. “I’m not criticizing that, but
what we need to do is back up a bit and do some homework.” Student representative Brad Hilsmier says that
the committee is a “very positive step in the direction of forming a successful station.” Brown encourages anyone interested in
the development of WALT to direct their ideas to him or any other member of the committee. Committee members include
students Bob Feezor, Churchill Hooff, Alison Woodward, Brian Luskey, and Derek Judson; and Davidson College Technical Services Coordinator Steve Smith
and Rachel Stewart of WDAV.

DCTV - Davidson’s Video Programming Committee gets a fresh start with freshman Martin Young running the show. Young is leading
an effort to increase participation in the committee, to jump-start some old traditions, and to create new ones. Every year,
DCTV films graduation, composes the video yearbook, and does various contract work, including video editing and renting out equipment. The
committee will continue this kind of work because the income which it raises meets DCTV’s annual budget needs.

In addition, Young would like to bring back the enthusiastic student participation of years past. Former chairman, junior Andy Cole,
remembers a time when DCTV events were...frequent, popular, and included broadcasting through a cable station on campus. Programming included creative
films and weekly announcements. “Broadcasting over air is what people keep asking for,” says Cole, “but that takes time and
manpower that a volunteer group of students really doesn’t have.” Young realizes that “broadcasting is really a job for a
professional,” but he has plans to stir up student interest and involvement. He is considering reviving the once popular televised
bingo games. In the past, Bingo games aired live from the Union pit while students played in lounges and senior
apartments on cards provided by DCTV. Winners called in to win prizes.

Other DCTV plans to attract crowds include study breaks featuring student-produced skits, sports news, or other videos. Attendance at the
first of such breaks, held several weeks ago in the Big Screen Room, demonstrated student enthusiasm for the idea. The
committee is planning two more breaks before the semester ends. The call for more programming is one that Young hopes
can be answered in the future. He says, “Although it would take many volunteers to film, edit, and change tapes,
I hope DCTV can work up to about two hours of programming a night.”

Phi Delt plays golf to support ALS
By David Christopherson

On Sunday, April 24, Phi Delta Theta held its inaugural Charity Golf Tournament at the Mallard Head Country Club. $1,800
was raised for the ALS Association of North Carolina. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is more commonly known as Lou Gehrig’s Disease,
named for its most famous victim. The terminal, degenerative, neuromuscular disease affects one in every 100,000 adults. The life expectancy
for its victims is generally two to five years, and there is no known cure for the disease.

June Thompson, President of the North Carolina chapter of the ALS Association, attended the event and said it was “the
first time there’s been such a golf tournament, and we’re really pleased.” Thompson said the money raised will be used
for research, as well as for equipment and services, such as walkers, communication aids, and respite care for ALS patients.
Bob Swann, an ALS patient, was also in attendance. He has defied the odds by living for eleven years with
the disease. He credits his wife, Barbara, for his success.

Tournament director Bob Bailey ‘96 said the day was a success and was happy with the community support of the
project. Numerous local businesses sponsored and participated in the event. Following the tournament, a reception and awards ceremony was held
at the Phi Delt house. The winning team was captained by Brian Wickenden ‘96 who shot a nine-under-par in the
captain’s choice format. Bailey said, “Fraternities have a tendency to get a bad reputation, but on days like today, I’m
proud to be a part of the fraternity system at Davidson.”

VOLUNTEERS NEEDED FOR TOWN DAY
SATURDAY, MAY 7

Students, Faculty, and Staff can participate in various ways: Stage Hands help announce and coordinate events on two separate stages.
Activity Leaders operate individual activities such as Sidewalk Art, Egg Toss, Relay Races (be creative!!). Also need Information Assistants and
an Artist to print signs. Volunteer times are 9:45 a.m.-12:00 p.m., 11:45 a.m.-2:00 p.m., and 1:45 p.m.-4:00 p.m. All Volunteers
receive a Town Day T-Shirt! Informational/training meeting on Friday, May 6 at 4:00 p.m. at the Village Green. Contact Gigi
at x2420 if interested.
