THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS | MONDAY, APRIL 18, 1994

Crammed tightly into a cold, gray prison cage, the thirty or thirty-five women would not be able to sit down if they wanted to. In the corner, lying down on the only cement bench in sight, an apparent veteran displays her power. Penned up for hours as they wait to be driven to the courthouse for their monthly battle with “justice,” these inmates are trapped in a society of their own. Welcome to the world where your shampoo must be alcohol-free and your social worker is your best friend. Plagued with a new set of fears, you cannot decide whether you’d be safer here or back at home.

In spite of the fact that our nation employs more private security guards than police officers, our prisons abound with thievery and violence. To quote the April 10th edition of the New York Times, referring to the second of two recent serious disturbances at one prison in which 22 officers and inmates were injured, “...the system is in shambles” and “...the inmates are out of control.”

For as long as I can remember, I have agonized over the idea of keeping people in prisons. I believe that punishment must be severe, but I will be satisfied with the practice of incarceration no sooner than I would encourage a father to lock his son in the basement for breaking curfew or forgetting to take out the trash.

For many people, imprisonment results from being with the wrong person, in the wrong place, at the wrong time. The majority of women in New York’s Rikers Island prison, for example, are incarcerated because they have been “drug mules,” used by men to bring drugs into the country. For whatever the reason, just or unjust, over 1.25 million people are currently in local, state, and federal U.S. prisons. Another three million are involved in the penal systems through either probation or parole.

For the 80% of incarcerated women who are mothers, and the 75% who are single mothers, going to prison will result in the loss of any bond with their families. Take Sonia, for example, an inmate who has not seen her fourteen-year-old son in over twelve years. Sonia suddenly became interested in locating her son when she found out that she was HIV-positive and was worried that her son had contracted the virus as well. Another true story, Jena was forced to part with her newborn daughter at the hospital and is now only hoping that the foster care agency will grant her parental visits with her child. Consider as well that New York pays $95,000 a year to keep one person in Rikers Island, and $19,000 a year for every child placed in foster care.

Of course, many steps can and must be made to improve the present system. Criminal justice activists must come together to sensitize the public to the increasing impact of criminal justice. The interreligious network must unite to meet the unsatisfied spiritual and psychological needs of inmates. Volunteers can increase the development and use of alternative programs and prevention programs to divert people from incarceration.

A synthesis between effective punishment of criminals and innovative prevention of crime would better the system. Preventative measures must be undertaken to attack crime at its roots. The drug problem could be addressed more directly, and more rehabilitation centers could be created for addicts. Economic options might be created for those to whom crime appears the only road to financial reward.

These solutions, however, still would not satisfy me. The problems associated with criminal justice appear impossible for me to solve. Could it be that what we are missing, dare I suggest, is instead a system of criminal mercy?

This summer I will be working for the Rikers Island prison ministry in New York City. I look forward to being in an office where the staff circles up to pray every morning before they begin to...

---

Not pepper spray!

Love Me continued from page 8

nalist who pretends that girls never talk to him.” I didn’t see a swoon coming on, so I broke out the big guns. “I’d like to call you sometime. What’s your number?” The poor girl was so flustered she couldn’t speak. She reached into her back pocket to get, I presumed, a pen. Instead, she came out with her key chain. “Yes,” I said. “I’m the guy who wrote about the keys in the back pocket. What is that red cylinder you’ve got on your....” My sentence was cut off as a cloud of pepper gas caught me full in the face. It seems the girl never reads the school paper.

My moment of self-confidence was cut short like John Bobbitt. (I couldn’t resist. It’s the last one, I swear.) I thought my Cinderella story was too good to be true. My fifteen minutes of fame apparently started at 11:58. I have turned back into a scullery maid; my flannel shirts have turned into the fashion of 1993; my apartment has turned into a cesspool; my car has turned into a lemon. Just like Beck says, “I’m a loser, baby.”

There is a happy ending to my adventures in studville. For my graduation present, my father got me a fancy-wancy lawyer. I threatened legal action against every girl who sprayed me with pepper gas, and my lawyer has cut a deal with every one of them. Every girl who has ever used violence against me now has to approach me, smile, laugh at my jokes, and touch my arm. I must have run into one such girl at the Commons. So, Ken, rest easy tonight. Your hero is safe and sound.provide their services. A ray of hope comes from the knowledge that the goals of the Women’s Advocate Ministry lie not only in meeting the inmates’ social and physical needs, but in “...setting at liberty those who are broken by life” (Luke 4:18). Regardless of the extent to which my efforts reach, I am aware that crime and punishment will only continue to increase. I have also become aware, however, that by contemplating and considering what is and happens around me, even in the midst of a seemingly hopeless world condition, I might eventually come to a place of powerful and fearless response. Perhaps, then, I will be satisfied.

Distributed by Tribune Media Services

An analysis of the ramifications of seniority

Bus boy continued from page 8

drunk, just desperately confused. And it all starts one Saturday night. At about two in the morning, a congressional mandate suddenly changes the time. It’s three in the morning, (or boy), I better get off my butt and see if I can get some play.” Of course, the answer is yes, they can get some play because the people they haven’t hooked up with are thinking the exact same thing, only reciprocally. (Interesting use of that word, don’t you think.)

Suddenly, however, the professors are seen as people who understand the real world. Somehow, they have experienced more, and spring semester seniors try to get a glimpse of what they really know. (The teachers aren’t really boring, but no one knows who they are because they don’t show up at things like Dean Terry’s farewell roast. And they also hide behind some bull malarkey that they aren’t allowed on the Court. Quick update: yes, they are.)

So look around and you’ll see what I am saying. Seniors hanging off of teachers. Seniors hanging off of the buildings. Seniors hanging off of each other. These are all people who remembered to take their core requirements. How are you doing? Hello, how are you? I know you, I knew you, I think I can remember your name. — Michael Stipe (R.E.M.)

How are you doing? Fine. What’s up? Not much. This past week I have been obsessed with this exchange of words which everyone at Davidson says at least fifty times daily. I have become so compulsive in thinking about this topic that whenever anyone says “How are you doing?” or “What’s up?” I just look at them and laugh. Sometimes I feel like responding to their innocent question by saying something like, “I am presently grappling with the existential loneliness of my human condition.” When I respond in either way, people just give me a strange look and usually call me a freak. (No wonder I have a hard time getting a date at this school!)

So what do these little innocuous questions really mean? Without being too negative, it is safe to say that people are not really asking what is your present intellectual, spiritual, emotional, or physical condition. Whenever I ask someone such a question, I am usually just recognizing the fact that I know the person and am affirming his or her existence. “I affirm your existence as a fellow traveler on the journey of life and as a fellow child of God,” would be a more appropriate thing for me to say or simply “I affirm you,” if we’re in a rush.

Okay, when am I going to get to the point? Having rambled on about the question “How are you doing?” I'll let my thoughts turn to a deeper question, “How are you really doing?” If we are honest with ourselves and truly examine our whole selves which are hidden from others, then the answer suddenly becomes far less simple.

As I thought about this question, the first thing which popped into my mind was the recent suicide of Kurt Cobain, lead singer of Nirvana. Why would a person who had the riches of the world, fame, a wife and a baby daughter decide to kill himself, especially when he was apparently “getting better”? I can only speculate, but I have a suspicion that he viewed the same reality which caused Kurtz in Joseph Conrad’s The Heart of Darkness to exclaim, “The horror. The horror.”

It is easy to gloss over “the horror” of our lives. It is also easy to simply escape life, either through suicide or any activity which has the result of deadening our lives. What takes true courage is when we come face to face with “the horror” and decide to continue our journey in the realm of the living. I hope, if God were to someday say, “Hi Rob, how are you doing?”, I could simply stand naked, look up, smile, and respond, “God, I have seen the horror. By the way, how are you doing?”