THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1994

The Davidsonian

LEIGH RAWDON - Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Executive Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Managing Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY - News Editor
RUSS TARVER - Ass't News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts & Living Editor
WILL COBB - Sports Editor
BROOKE McCRAE - Photography Editor
WILLIAM ROBERT - Copy Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES - Advertising Manager
SCOTT HILE - Operations Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN - Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD - Circulation Manager
ERIK SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

Forgive us our debts

Students are notorious for maintaining close budgets and even bouncing a check now and then. After all, it is difficult to have a job and still have time to attend class, study, and participate in extracurriculars, and spending money earned during the summer just doesn’t seem to last throughout the school year like it should. Davidson is great about giving work-study jobs to students and providing ways to make money through the catering service and concessions at sporting events. Even if our summer money gives out toward the end of the semester, we can sign up for these short-notice jobs and make enough to balance the old First Union account.

But somewhat contradictory to this seeming concern for student incomes are the astronomical fines attached to parking violations on campus. Parking tickets given by the campus police cost from $25 to $100, most of them $50, which is enough to send students reeling when it comes time to pay the bills. Perhaps the fine-setters operate with the mentality that our parents will pay off the fines at the end of the year without even questioning what they are paying for. What’s two hundred dollars if you’ve already shelled out twenty thousand? It’s a lot, especially if you realize that students, not parents, are usually the ones who have to pay off the fines. Even if some students’ parents do have the means to pay outrageous parking fines, that doesn’t necessarily mean the students do. Many students operate on the income they earn here at school. Most students with work-study jobs earn around $4.50 an hour and work 10 to 12 hours a week for a weekly income of around fifty dollars. A fifty dollar ticket, therefore, consumes a full week’s worth of earnings. I doubt police officers, faculty, or staff would pay a parking fine equal to a week’s income without a little protest.

Parking tickets in the town of Davidson cost $10. In Charlotte, they cost $10. In Atlanta, where parking problems really exist, they cost $25. Not to be outdone by city governments, Davidson College charges twice, even four times that much for transgressions such as parking in a faculty/staff spot, leaving cars in the laundry lot past 4:30 in the morning, or parking in front of Patterson Court houses to run inside for a bite to eat. Parking illegally on quiet Davidson campus is simply not a matter of life and death, and we shouldn’t have to pay so gravely for such trivial mistakes.

This argument does not propose that students should be allowed to park wherever they please. We are simply arguing for a more appropriate fine. Students don’t want to pay ten dollars for a parking spot any more than they want to pay fifty dollars. Sometimes we get in a hurry and leave our cars in the wrong place. We know that. But being financially raped for it only makes us annoyed, poor, and resentful. So let’s be good Presbyterians and take it easy on our debtors.

SEXUALLY SPEAKING with Dr. Ruth

Change for the sake of change

To the editors,

Why is Eric Rosenbach again attacking the by-laws of Davidson College? We are not even Christians, yet we still feel that Davidson College, as a Presbyterian school which receives funds from the Presbyterian Church—United States of America, needs to be headed by a Presbyterian president. After all, one of the president’s functions is to maintain strong ties to the Presbyterian community. Rather than being “inherently wrong” as Rosenbach suggests, the by-laws are fitting. Some traditions are traditions for a reason—because they make sense. Eric, your policy seems to be “change for the sake of change.” Do you just want to see your name in the paper?

Sincerely,
Greg Padrick ’95Jeni Hankins ’96

Insulted by some NAMES quilt publicity

To the editors,

As the AIDS awareness weekend approaches, the NAMES project committee has been publicizing the arrival of the AIDS quilt by providing “facts” about AIDS and the HIV virus. You may have seen the bright yellow flyers in dorms or in Chambers—the one that always catches my eye is the one that claims, “Alcohol Leads To HIV—If you can’t walk straight, you can’t put on a condom.” This assumption is outrageous and insulting. Yes, I have been known to consume alcohol in my time here at Davidson, but -gasp!- I have not contracted HIV! The person who produced this misinformation is offending those of us who choose to responsibly partake of alcoholic beverages, as well as the many people who contracted HIV for reasons entirely unrelated to their behavior. Drinking does not automatically lead to sex, just as sex does not always lead to HIV. Although the rest of the publicity surrounding the Quilt has been praiseworthy, this evangelical-sounding claim has no place. With enough false ideas around concerning AIDS, we should be particularly careful not to make misleading and insulting statements such as this.

Sincerely,
Disco Dan Mojonnier

In defense of fraternities

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year.

Advertising

To the editors,

I’m a member of a fraternity and I enjoy Patterson Court’s atmosphere. The nature of fraternities and eating houses at Davidson is far more inclusive than most schools, generally allowing everyone a chance to party. However, I recognize the need and demand for an alternative. The Union lacks the facilities and Charlotte lies too far down the road. The school needs to do something. With that in mind, I would like to express my greatest concern for Davidson’s social scene. Fraternities at Davidson are under attack. For whatever reasons, much of our faculty and administration see fraternities in an extremely negative light. I’ve heard of plans to phase out fraternities within the next five to ten years and I’ve seen proposed maps of a future campus—a campus with many more dorms and no fraternities or women’s eating houses. This worries me. Without this social option, the school will deteriorate. Admittedly, everyone does not want to join a house. Admittedly, everyone does not enjoy the atmosphere on the court. But, at least fifty percent of Davidson does. Nothing can replace the court. Not a new Union. Not more concerts. Not even 21-year-old-night every night. Furthermore, houses contribute to more than just the college’s social environment. We sponsor innumerable service projects—supporting everything from Habitat to MADD. We offer a realistic alternative to Carlton Pritchard’s Commons. We allow many students the opportunity to hold leadership roles they would otherwise never experience. We raise lots of money at the telethon. The positive in Patterson Court far exceeds the negative. Before the board of trustees, or whomever comprises the faceless body that makes all the real decisions at Davidson (behind closed doors), decide to annihilate the court, I’d like them to keep this in mind: I will continue to feel a part of the Davidson family after I graduate, but my fraternity plays a large role in cementing that bond. If it goes, so will much of my future contributions. I am confident that I speak for many members of Davidson’s fraternities.

Respectfully,
Geoffrey D. Graham, Class of 1995

Rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

WRITE LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
P.O. BOX 219, DAVIDSON, NC, 28036 OR DELIVER TO THE UNION OFFICE