4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1994

U.S. News ranks Davidson 5th in value, 12th in financial aid

By Mary Clare Jalonick

Just when you thought it was over, U.S. News and World Report has come out with another college ranking for Davidson. In a follow-up issue to the annual “Best Colleges” list, the magazine has ranked universities and liberal arts colleges according to value and “discounted value.”

Davidson was ranked 5th in the liberal arts category for value, a ranking that is figured by the quality of the school as compared to price. The number is based on “sticker price” — tuition plus room, board, and fees. Davidson was ranked 12th for “discounted value,” a ranking that U.S. News urges readers to look at a little more closely. This ranking is figured by subtracting an average of need-based grants from the sticker price.

Director of College Relations Jerry Stockdale explains his interpretation of the rankings: “We don’t have the financial aid resources available that other colleges do. Our aid is not strong. We need to strengthen it, and that is where our focus is now.”

The Numbers

The 1994 “sticker price” is $22,534. However, some schools have no merit scholarships, while Davidson awards them to 20% of students. Davidson’s average merit award is $3,435. Kelton has confidence in Davidson’s standings. “Our tuition is low for the quality we have.”

Efficiency

U.S. News also ranked college efficiency. The rankings were based on the school’s overall score divided by the amount that they spent per student, or the colleges that ranked highest while spending the least amount of money. Davidson does not appear in the rankings at all. Kelton is not concerned. “If you look at the list, there are not many on there with really high rankings in the other categories. I’m not too concerned that we don’t show up, simply because spending more money per student means more programs and activities and smaller classes. I’m not convinced that spending less money per student is good.”

Moving in the Right Direction

Stockdale says that “as money comes in, we should improve our position.”

Freshmen disappointed with homecoming

By Meg Wolff

With first night down and Homecoming in the not-too-distant past, rumor has it that the number of freshmen who received invitations to fraternities’ homecoming parties this year was significantly less than in years past. While many freshmen, including Jonathan Frost, “had a great time — I think everybody really liked it,” many people say that as many as 50% of the freshmen did not get invited to a house.

KA social chair Howdie Coonley explains that most houses, in order to generate a list of people to invite to homecoming, have the brothers list freshmen that they have met. Those freshmen then almost all receive invitations to the house function. Patterson Court Council President Josh Worsham doesn’t think anything was different this year: “Homecoming is primarily a rush function - we (Patterson Court Council) pretty much leave it up to the houses.” Worsham suggests that the early homecoming date may be at fault: “Maybe because homecoming was so early this year problems came up - guys didn’t really get a chance to get involved in a house.” Coonley agrees: “Since Homecoming was so close to first night down, we just didn’t get a chance to meet a lot of the freshmen.” Sig Ep social chair Chris Mann remarks: “It seems all the houses try and invite as many freshmen as possible - it was not meant to be an exclusive thing, especially this year when there was so little time to meet freshmen.”

PCC president Worsham stresses that there is plenty of time left for freshmen to become involved in a house: “Fraternity rush goes until November, so everyone should have a chance to get to know the house of their choice.”For Davidson, the new Belk scholarships, and individual donors increasing our resources each year, Davidson is becoming more competitive within the ranks of financial aid. Jamie May, Director of Development, says that the Campaign for Davidson has already contributed $38 million for need-based and merit scholarships. The five-year campaign, begun in 1989, has almost reached its goal of $150 million. May says that Davidson's financial giving ability will always be improving. “Without a doubt the college will continue to emphasize money for scholarships. But our needs are so great that I would never foresee a time when we wouldn’t need more grants.”

The Women’s Issues Committee is experiencing record involvement during its regular meetings. Chair of the committee, senior Sarah Orsbon, along with her committee, has planned a variety of activities including a weekend of backpacking with women professors and evenings of dinner and discussion with faculty.

Photo by Brooke McRae

Director of Dean Rusk, Jack Perry, to retire

Perry continued from page 1

awareness to international concerns.” What are some of Perry’s greatest contributions to Davidson? Ortmayer feels that Perry’s personal contacts have been invaluable to the school in many ways, but especially in the development of the Davidson in Washington program. “He has an amazing range of contacts—from people who know him to those who actually worked under him. He has been the key to not only bringing influential speakers to Davidson but to broadening Davidson’s program in Washington, D.C.”

How do students feel about Perry’s contributions and retirement? Perry leaves some big shoes to fill in the eyes of many students at Davidson. Eric Rosenbach, President of the SGA, says, “Perry is the ideal role model—certainly my mentor while I’ve been at Davidson. If my life turns out to be as accomplished and fulfilling as his, that would be all I could hope for.” Rosenbach believes the highlights of Perry’s work here include his success in actually getting students interactively involved in foreign politics, especially through the activities of SAC. “Davidson is one of the very few colleges in the nation that has a program such as Dean Rusk to enhance international studies, and the fact that it is here and has been so successful is due to Perry.”

Senior John Murchison says, “In his class, Perry’s outside perspective—the fact that he has actually lived and done what he is teaching about—is critical for students.” Rosenbach agrees: “He takes his experience into the classroom and provides an invaluable perspective into foreign politics—one that an average professor simply cannot offer.” Sometimes coined “Storytime with Jack,” his lectures are entertaining and informative because “any lecture has a story to accompany it, whether it be of people he has met or experiences he has had,” says sophomore Michael Farley.

On a personal level, Perry is known for always being readily available to students. Whether to discuss class topics, prospects for international studies, or the weather, “Perry’s door is always open, and he is willing to discuss anything,” says Farley.

What will Perry do following his retirement? Though he may be retiring, Perry does not intend to vanish from the Davidson community. He and his wife will probably take a little time off to travel—possibly for a year—and then return to Davidson.

Despite the loss of Perry as director of the Dean Rusk Program, his service to Davidson will not be forgotten. When thinking of Perry, Farley says “only one thing comes to mind. Last summer someone told me, ‘The greatest use of life is to spend it for something that will outlast it.’ While his teaching brings to class his unparalleled experience and dedicated service, his actual service to people as ambassador, professor, and friend fulfills this creed and affords an example we can all look to with appreciation and awe.”

Like to take pictures? Want a little practice? Want to get published? Call Brooke -6270.

All Students and Faculty of Davidson College Receive a 2nd Print Free!

Lake 1 hr. Photo, Inc.
Southlake Shopping Center
P. O. Box 1090, 20619 Torrence Chapel Rd.
Cornelius, NC 28031
704/892-5400