6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

This Week in Washington

Vatican Concert Honors Holocaust Victims

By Brett Marston

April 7th is the day on which Jews remember Shoah. On this April 7th, with a ceremony and concert in
the Vatican, the Roman Catholic Church officially honored the memory of the victims of this catastrophe for the first time.
The Chief Rabbi of Rome, Elio Toaff, was invited as the honored guest for the ceremony. He and Pope John
Paul II, along with the President of Italy, Oscar Luigi Scalfaro, sat together and listened while the London Royal Philharmonic
Orchestra played pieces by Bach and Schubert. The orchestra also accompanied Richard Dreyfuss as he read the Kaddish to the
music of Leonard Bernstein.

After the concert, according to the New York Times, Rabbi Toaff said that the concert “assumes a significance that goes
beyond that of a simple artistic event.” To put this into perspective: Only in the past thirty years, after the
ground-breaking Second Vatican Council in 1962 to 1965, has the Catholic Church stopped officially teaching that Jews, in addition to
being collectively responsible for the death of Jesus, have suffered throughout history because they rejected the “truth of Christ.” Further,
it was only this past January that the Vatican decided to formally recognize the state of Israel. In an interview
in a recent issue of Parade magazine (quoted in the New York Times from April 3rd), Pope John Paul II
echoed earlier statements by saying that the Jewish people had a right “to return to the land of their ancestors.”

This concert, organized by Gilbert Levine, an American Jew and friend of the Pope, comes at an important time. Antisemitism
and right-wing extremism are gaining ground: in Italy, where an alliance of parties on the far right won significant victories
in recent elections; in Russia, where the openly antisemitic Zhirinovsky spouts venom to large crowds; and in Germany, where the
Republikaner, led by the former Waffen-SS officer Franz Schönhuber, might receive enough support in upcoming elections to win seats in
parliament—to name only a few examples. The Pope should be applauded for his efforts to keep the Vatican on the
course towards improving Jewish-Catholic relations at this crucial moment, almost fifty years after the military defeat of the National Socialists,
and a few years shy of the end of this most horrible century in human history.

Roughly 100 Holocaust survivors attended the concert on April 7th. Erwin Herling, who survived Auschwitz and Mauthausen, told reporters, “when
the Pope shook my hand, I had the feeling 2,000 years of Jewish suffering had come to some kind of
turning point.”

Additional Sources: The New York Times (the first and final quotes are from the April 8th edition) and Arthur Gilbert,
The Vatican Council and the Jews, Cleveland: World Publishing, 1968.

The Dean Rusk Program

Who is Vladimir Zhirinovsky?

By Eric Collings

He recently told thousands of cheering supporters that he plans to unseat the Moscow government and help the Serbs resist
the West. He envisions a new Russian empire and a redrawn map of Europe which would eliminate Austria, the Czech
Republic, and the Baltic nations of Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia. He claimed, in a meeting with former president Richard Nixon,
that Russia must defend itself against the 300 million Muslims massed on its southern border that are prepared to overrun
the country. He foresees the return of Alaska into Russian hands, and he, according to his book The Last March
to the South, the “salvation of the nation” through war and conquest.

Is he certifiably insane, this opportunist seizing upon popular displeasure with the Yeltsin government's shaky transition from a command to
a market economy? Is he the “Russian Hitler,” a fount of fascist, anti-Semitic and imperialist views? Or is he an
immense fraud, a puppet bankrolled by Yeltsin’s enemies, former members of the KGB who seek to divide the new democrats
in hopes of a reversion to Soviet-era politics?

In any case, Vladimir Volfovich Zhirinovsky burst upon the Russian political scene in early December; continues to surprise observers with
his popular appeal, and appears likely to challenge Yeltsin for the Russian presidency in 1996. During last week’s party conference,
the ultra-nationalist Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), which is neither liberal nor democratic, declared Zhirinovsky its “absolute leader” for the next
ten years, completing his ascent to the top of Russian politics. In 1991, Zhirinovsky garnered six million votes to place
third in the presidential race won by Yeltsin. In last December's parliamentary elections, the LDP stunned its opponents, who derided
Zhirinovsky as a clown, by receiving 12 million votes (23.5%) more than any other party, including the pro-Yeltsin, pro-reform Russia’s
Choice (15%).and the Communists (12%). As a result of the party’s mandate, Zhirinovsky now has “sole power to appoint party
officials at the national and regional levels and to decide all other matters of importance between [party] conferences held every
three years.” He will also be automatically nominated for Russia’s presidency in the next election. Zhirinovsky’s rapid ascent, however, has
alienated many allies as well as opponents. The former Prosecutor General Alexei Kazannik initiated an investigation into Zhirinovsky’s extremist speech
and accused him of warmongering. Furthermore, two of the top leaders of the LDP quit, citing “ideological differences” with the
power-hungry Zhirinovsky. Viktor Kobelev and Alexander Pronin blasted their leader's “extremism, interference in the external affairs of some countries, and
irresponsible statements unauthorized by the party.” Perhaps the most damaging revelation, though, is the recent discovery of public records in
Alma-Ata, Kazakhstan, Zhirinovsky’s birthplace, which confirm a long-held suspicion: Zhirinovsky, who campaigns on intense anti-Semitism, had a Jewish last name,
Eidelshtein, until age 18. Zhirinovsky and his spokesman brand the documents as forgery perpetrated by Russian security agents, but questions
remain unanswered. Nevertheless, Zhirinovsky survives and continues to frustrate the Yeltsin government. In an hour-long speech to conclude the party
conference, he promised that he would win the Russian presidency by 1996 “at the latest” and restore to Great Russia
“fair borders” and “decent life” for its citizens. As he spoke, the LDP emblem waved in the background: a black
eagle grasping a map of an expanded Russia, complete with Alaska and parts of Finland and Poland.

While President Yeltsin struggles to assert his leadership and control, some American congressmen question our ties to Russia and call
for a reduction in foreign aid because of incidents such as the Ames spy case. Perhaps they should instead be
asking themselves, “Who is Vladimir Zhirinovsky?”

Source: The Charlotte Observer

BICYCLE SALE
There will be a sale of bicycles that have been picked up and stored over the past six months. These
bicycles will be sold on a sealed bid basis. All sales will be final.
April 26
9 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Davidson College Police Department

NOTES
MONDAY, APRIL 11, 1994

Cruel and Unusual
William Safire, “Crime in Singapore,” from the April 7 OP-ED page of The New York Times

The Art of Lying
Here’s how to write recommendations for lousy job candidates. Excerpts from “The Lexicon of Intentionally Ambiguous Recommendations” (LIAR) by Lehigh
University Economist Robert Thornton whiz around the Internet. For a candidate with interpersonal problems, he suggests saying: “I am pleased
to say this person is a former colleague of mine.” For the lazy worker: “In my opinion, you will be
fortunate to get this person to work for you.” The book, published by Meadowlark Press in Deep Haven, Minn., also
suggests recommendations for the criminal: “He’s a man of many convictions” and “I’m sorry we let her get away.” For
the untrustworthy candidate: “Her true ability is deceiving.” And for the inept worker: “I most enthusiastically recommend this person with
no qualifications whatsoever.”

-reprinted from The Wall Street Journal

LARGE BUSINESS ORDERS DISCOUNTED!
One 14" Large One Topping $7.15
Carryout only
Additional toppings 95¢ each
Not valid with any other coupon
Valid only at participating stores

One 14" Large One Topping $7.15
FREE DELIVERY to Davidson students
Additional toppings 95¢ each
Not valid with any other coupon
Valid only at participating stores
896-7272

Family Special
One 14” Large with the “Works” $14.95
Additional toppings 95¢ each
Not valid with any other coupon
Valid only at participating stores
Norman Square Shopping Center
Serving Lake Norman
