THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, OCTOBER 24

Dancing from coast to coast

Artist Series features California dance troupe ODC

By Dave Williard

When it comes to writing reviews on Artist Series events, about all I can say is that if you missed
it, you missed out! According to my sources, last Saturday’s performance by ODC/Dance San Francisco artistically outdid Airband by a
wide margin. So, while many of the culturally impaired were putting down 8-balls, one of the nation’s foremost dance troupes
returned to Love Auditorium for a stunning presentation of ballet, social dance, and athleticism.

The performance consisted of four separate dance pieces. The show centered thematically on women’s issues; the last dance, entitled “Dirt,”
was an excerpt from ODC’s trilogy, “Western Women.” This piece chronicles women’s social progress since the nineteenth century and includes
a striking musical piece by Bobby McFerrin’s vocal group SoVoSo.

ODC founder and artistic director Brenda Way incorporates a fusion style that emphasizes athleticism, the look of “real people” dancing.
Because her interest in physical virtuosity requires a wide range of dance styles, many dancers in ODC are older than
in other companies. While most members of the troupe have formal ballet training, they augment this form with modern jazz
styles as well. The group’s graceful physicality is simply breathtaking, especially in the pieces “River” and “John Somebody.”

ODC’s highly symbolic works are a bit enigmatic, but Way is not concerned that audiences will miss her message. For
her, the beauty of the dance comes before all else. “People can relax and not have to understand the story,”
she said. “Whatever you get is the story.”

And the story I get is that anyone would be a fool to miss out on the Artist Series. The
next Series performance will be on December 3rd, with jazz trumpeter Terence Blanchard. Go and expand your mind.

GALLERY GRAZING

Photo by Brandon Clarke
The Christa Faut Gallery on Main Street features a variety of art—from painting to jewelry.

Do you have any comments, concerns, suggestions for the Honor Council and SGA Ad-Hoc Committee that is studying the Honor
Code at Davidson?

Call Chairs Warren Buford and Arthur Gaston.

JUST RUN IT
By James Berry

How many of us complain about the walk from down the hill, the grueling journey to class, demoralizing simply through
the sheer elevation of the hill itself. And who doesn’t have the right to complain? It’s a good quarter-mile we’re
talking about. Ah, but we should feel small.

On Sunday, October 23 at 9 a.m., Lillian Roe ‘95, Dr. Sally McMillen, and Dr. Susan Roberts will compete in
the 26th Marine Corps Marathon in Washington, D.C.

Preparation for a race such as this is no small matter. McMillen, a member of the history department and a
twenty-year veteran of running, has been training for the race since June of this year. A little wary about undertaking
such a monumental task alone, she asked Roberts of the political science department to join her, and they have been
training ever since. An average workout consists of a long run of 19 or 20 miles.

Lillian Roe’s workouts are no less demanding. Training since August, she runs 75 miles a week, broken down into 12
to 13 miles a day plus a long run of about 22 miles on the weekend. On top of this,
she tries to hold a steady seven to eight minute pace per mile.

Roe says, “I think most people think I’m crazy.” She sees a marathon as the “ultimate challenge,” something that requires
grave commitment and willpower. McMillen says: “I’ve always loved to shoot for big goals.”

Never having taken on a distance this long, the contestants are excited to race. All will be joined by support
groups for the last five miles, when friends and family run alongside to urge the runners on and ensure a
safe finish.

“Sexually Speaking” with Dr. Ruth

Wednesday, November 9, 7:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium

Tickets on sale in the College Union beginning Wed., Oct. 26
$2 faculty, staff & students
$5 general admission (Available only beginning Nov. 2)
