THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Supreme Court Justice Harry A. Blackmun condemns death penalty

By Brett Marston

Announcing his dissent from the Supreme Court’s decision last week to deny a review of a Texas death penalty case,
senior Justice Harry A. Blackmun called capital punishment unconstitutional and expressed his hope that the Supreme Court will eventually abolish
it.

“Twenty years have passed since this Court declared that the death penalty must be imposed fairly, and with reasonable consistency
or not at all,” he wrote on Tuesday, referring to the Court’s 1972 Furman vs. Georgia ruling, which condemned all
previous capital punishment laws as unconstitutional, “and despite the effort of the states and courts to devise legal formulas and
procedural rules to meet this daunting challenge, the death penalty remains fraught with arbitrariness, discrimination, caprice and mistake.”

Blackmun himself dissented in 1972 and voted with the Court in the 1976 Gregg vs. Georgia case, which allowed for
the death penalty and established the principle of “guided discretion” in an attempt to erect guidelines for its fair implementation.
Now, Blackmun contends that the “death penalty endeavor” has failed. “The problem is that the inevitability of factual, legal and
moral error gives us a system that we know must wrongly kill some defendants, a system that fails to deliver
the fair, consistent and reliable sentences of death required by the Constitution.”

After the retirement of Justices Thurgood Marshall and William J. Brennan, Jr., both of whom also contended that the death
penalty is unconstitutional, Blackmun is the only member of the Supreme Court to hold this opinion.

Research by social scientists supports Blackmun’s doubts that death sentences are “fair, consistent and reliable.” Noting that the rich have
a definite advantage over the poor in obtaining good defense lawyers, Raymond Paternoster writes in a recent article in the
Law and Society Review that “[t]here is reason to believe...that there are glaring inadequacies in access to procedural justice.” Also
in the same journal, researchers Beck, Weiss and Boger conclude that the race of the victim in death penalty cases
has a significant effect on sentencing. “In particular the victimization of whites was treated far more seriously than that of
blacks,” they write, “so that individuals convicted of murdering whites were at greater risk of a death sentence than individuals
convicted of murdering blacks, even if the seriousness of the crimes and prior criminal records were compatible.”

Further, researchers have failed to find evidence of the much-hailed deterrent effect of capital punishment.

Dean Rusk Program

South African violence threatens elections

By Zik Joseph

A wave of violence sweeps across South Africa as the April 27 elections approach. Speculators worry that the first post-apartheid,
multi-party elections will send South Africa plunging into chaos once again.

The right-wing Freedom Alliance has threatened to boycott the elections despite recent efforts aimed at a compromise on its demands
for a federal South Africa. Chief Mangosuthu Buthelezi of the Inkatha Freedom Party has joined forces in the Freedom Alliance
with white conservatives, including former army chief Constand Viljoen of the Afrikaner Volksfront, to threaten boycott.

The road to the elections has been dangerous for campaigners Nelson Mandela of the African National Congress and President F.W.
de Klerk of the ruling National Party. Last week, security officials had to rush de Klerk into an armored limousine
after supporters of the ANC struck him with a stone while chanting, “De Klerk go to hell.” The attack occurred
while de Klerk was campaigning in South Africa’s Northern Cape region.

Some speculate that the Freedom Alliance’s Buthelezi, who realizes that his chances in the race against popular ANC candidate Mandela
are slim, ordered the attack. In a speech to 20,000 supporters, Buthelezi vowed not to submit to an ANC government,
asserting that “it isMore noble to resist evil and die if necessary for what you believe in than to live
in chains.” Earlier this month, 15 election campaigners of the African National Congress were murdered. The tragedy cast a dark
cloud over the elections but spurred Nelson Mandela into the campaign swing. Mandela has been busy promising better homes for
those living in ramshackle black townships and education funding for black children currently on the streets. The ANC is favored
to capture eight out of the nine provincial parliaments. If elected, its major task will be to restore peace in
a nation that has suffered more than 10,000 political deaths since 1990. A newly elected ANC would likely face continued
civil strife. Although it is expected that only a small faction of 1500-2000 would actually instigate a guerilla war against
the new regime, their military training and access to weapons would give them a substantial advantage. Buthelezi’s Kwazulu stronghold could
become a base from which to launch an Angolan-style civil war.

The air in South Africa is filled with tension as the threat of civil war looms over the elections.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1994

After examining the homicide rate between 1976 and 1987 and television coverage of executions during the same period, William Bailey
found that “homicide rates were not found to be related to either the amount or the type of execution publicity
over the period.” Bailey admits that his study is not conclusive. Explaining that the ratio of executions to homicide cases
is very small, he writes that “what television coverage may be communicating to the public is that the certainty of
capital punishment for murder is quite low.” “What does seem clear, however,” he continues, “is that the current level of
executions in this country neither discourages nor promotes murder.” But there is hope that this may change in 1994. The
Omnibus Crime Control Bill, passed by the Senate last December and under debate in the House, expands to about fifty
the number of federal crimes to which the death penalty can apply.

Sources: R. Paternoster, “Assessing capriciousness in capital cases,” and R. Beck, R. Weiss, and J. Boger, “Chance and the Death
Penalty,” in Law and Society Review, 27(1), 1993; W. Bailey, “Murder, Capital Punishment, and Television: Execution Publicity and Homicide Rates,”
American Sociological Review, 55, Oct. 1990; and the Dec. 11, 1993 edition of Congressional Quarterly; quotes from Justice Blackmun are
from the New York Times.

$1.50 Wine $1.00 DAVIN

DAVINO'S WEEKLY SPECIALS
- Mon. Night: 8oz Steak Pizzola, Fries, & Soup or Salad $9.95. Domestic beer $1.00
- Tues. Night: Kids 12 and Under Eat 1/2 Price from the Kid's Menu. Import Beer $1.00
- Wed. Night: All You Can Eat Pizza $4.75. Pitcher Beer $3.50. Mug O' Beer $0.75
- Thurs. Night: Jumbo Stuffed Shells, Soup or Salad, & Bread $7.75. Glass of Wine $1.00
- Fri. Night: Chef's Choice

Restaurant & Bar
892-4794
Sadler Square Shopping Center
Davidson, NC
Hours: M-Th 11:30-10:00
Fri. 11:30-10
Sat 4-10
Sunday Closed

That’s what giving plasma is all about. Life saving. Life giving. Life. Earn extra money as a plasma donor, too!
$185.00 this month. When you visit our friendly, modern center you will automatically become eligible to win $400.00 in cash
& prizes awarded weekly.

M-Th 6:30A-9P
Fri 6:30A-8P
Sat 7:30A-6P
Sun 9A-6P

Alliance
(704) 333-0335
1151 Central Ave.
Charlotte, NC 28205
State ID Required

EVERY NIGHT IS COLLEGE NIGHT AT FORD'S SEAFOOD, BBQ, AND CATERING
- Bring in your student I.D. & get $1.50 off any entree
- Enjoy a really delicious meal at a really great price. Our fast, friendly service & atmosphere make dinner an
enjoyable break! Don't forget to save room for our homemade banana pudding, voted "Best Dessert" by Lake Norman Magazine.
- Conveniently located just minutes away from Davidson College
- Must present I.D. to validate offer

Hours: Tues-Sat 5:00-9:00pm
Lunch: Fri 11:30-2:00pm
Highway 21 South
Cornelius, NC
892-3362
