THE DAVIDSONIAN

Bluebird houses, tropical forests & the EAC

By Court McBryde

Tropical deforestation, the plight of African honeybees, and the condition of raptors are issues which will be addressed by Davidson’s
Environmental Action Committee this semester. The committee is composed of students who wish to make a difference in today's global
environment.

Last semester, the EAC completed a variety of projects including an insulated mug sale intended to promote recycling and reduce
styrofoam use on campus.

Bluebird houses, built by members of the committee, are in the process of being installed in woody areas around the
campus. The committee hopes to encourage the nesting of bluebirds on campus and to further the bird population in the
Davidson College area.

One of the most successful EAC projects was a letter-writing campaign in protest of the statute which allows road building
through National Parks and other protected lands. Catherine Rideout, president of the EAC, said that it was “exciting to see
people taking the time to get involved. There were certain people I was surprised to see stop and ask questions
and write letters.”

Rideout emphasizes that “it is important for people to realize that participation is essential in terms of the environmental movement
succeeding.”

A letter-writing campaign scheduled for this semester will address tropical deforestation.

Marrow donors dine together

By Julie Ferguson

On Tuesday, February 15, Davidson hosted the fourth annual Marrow Donor Celebration, which was sponsored by the Red Cross. Over
24 marrow donors and recipients from around the Carolinas gathered at this dinner to celebrate life together.

Davidson was chosen as the site of this gathering because of the success of its own marrow drives. Davidson has
added over 1500 people to the National Registry over the last three years, three of whom have become actual donors.

Also in attendance at the dinner were Dr. Craig Howe, Chief Executive Officer of the National Marrow Donor Program; Dr.
N. Rebecca Haley, Chief Medical Officer of the Red Cross Blood Services Carolinas Region; and Dr. David Hurd, Director of
Bone Marrow Transplantation at NC Baptist Hospital.

After dinner, Lee Albrecht, a recent bone marrow recipient, spoke to the group about his battle with leukemia, his transplant,
and the emotional and spiritual impact of the gift he received. The evening was a special one for Albrecht, who
had met his donor Steve Willis.

Rideout explains, “One of the most important issues we face is tropical deforestation. If the remaining forests are not managed
properly, we face an incredible loss of biodiversity. Many people do not realize the importance of this biodiversity in our
lives.”

Biology professor Linda McNally will make a presentation in early March concerning research she has done on African honeybees and
other environmental issues in Kenya.

The EAC also plans to schedule a presentation with the Raptor Center, a Charlotte facility which houses rehabilitated raptors, large
birds of prey. “Their presentation includes the use of permanently injured or non-releasable raptors for educational programs,” Rideout said.

In the spring of this semester, the EAC is trying to coordinate a plant-a-tree project. “The project hopes to involve
the community kids in the planting process as a part of educating them at an early age,” Rideout explains.

Rideout has been very encouraged by the participation in the EAC this year. “There has been more interest in the
EAC and more people have been coming to the meetings.”

Let The Best Airline Treat You To The Best In College Basketball.

American Airlines.

Come see Davidson vs. Marshall, Saturday, February 26 at 7:30 PM and win a trip to the Final Four® with
American Airlines and American Eagle.®

American also provides nonstop service to Paris, Cancun, Raleigh/Durham, and the Caribbean from Raleigh/Durham. Map not to scale. Schedules and
cities served are subject to change.

American Airlines’ Official Airline for NCAA Championships.

If you want to see the best in college basketball at the NCAA Men’s Basketball Championships, you have to fly
the best airline.

American’s all-star lineup of East Coast destinations makes it easy to catch all the big games.

Be sure to watch for the American Airlines Half-Court Halftime, on February 26th. American will select a few lucky students
to take a 3-point shot during halftime. Make the shot and you'll win two round-trip coach tickets to any destination
city. Plus, you can then shoot from the half-court line. Sink this shot and you’ll win our grand prize: an
all-expenses-paid trip for two to the Final Four.

So, if you’re flying high this season, get airborne with the official airline for the NCAA Championships. American Airlines and
American Eagle.

For reservations or information, contact your Travel Agent or American at 1-800-433-7300.

No purchase necessary. Void where prohibited. ©1994 American Airlines, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in U.S.A. American Eagle is a
registered trademark of American Airlines, Inc., and is American's regional airline associate.
