SPORTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1994

Cats streak to 3-0 in the conference with 2-1 win v. ASU

By Will Cobb

Through the first eight games of the season, the men’s soccer team has found a rhythm. The 6-2 Wildcats streaked
to 3-0 in the Southern Conference with a 2-1 victory over the Appalachian State Mountaineers last Friday night in Boone,
NC.

“That was a big win for us, especially for our conference standing,” said goalkeeper Alex Deegan.

The victory avenged a bitter loss last season and sets up a big match tomorrow against the Furman Paladins in
Greenville, SC. Davidson will take an impressive 4-1 road record for their biggest conference game of the year. The winner
will most likely win the regular season title along with the #1 seed for the conference tournament in November.

The previous Sunday, the Wildcats shut out Marshall 3-0 despite having car trouble due to an attempt to use improper
fuel for the team van. Fortunately, the team survived the scare and stopped laughing in time to face the Thundering
Herd and record the shutout. In the six victories, the Wildcats have recorded four shutouts. Davidson has remained healthy with
the exception of keeper Neal Andrews, who will still be out another couple of weeks. Depth and leadership have helped
the team build a three-game winning streak.

Davidson will travel to Durham on Thursday to face top twenty opponent Duke and then will return home to face
the #10 South Carolina Gamecocks on October 6.

“All of the teams we face are ranked ahead of us in the region. Now is our chance to make
a move up to the top six slots in the south,” said senior Jon Olin.

The next three games will be very important for the Wildcats and the second half of the season. Following Tuesday’s
game against Furman, the Paladins have been a menace to the Wildcats over the past several seasons. Even during the
year Davidson won the conference tournament and reached the Final Four, they lost to Furman in the only meeting of
the teams.

“If we stay as a team we should do fine. They are a tough team,” said senior Jon Olin.

For Thursday’s game against Duke, buses will be provided as transportation and a safe ride for Davidson students. For information,
contact Nick Troiano at -6172 or call the SGA office. These three games will be the toughest trio on the
schedule as the competition features NCAA competitors as well as nationally ranked opponents. How Davidson fares during this stretch will
tell a lot about the team’s strength and standing in the southern region. Still, the matter at hand will be
in the next game against Furman.

See Soccer continued on page 14

Cats succumb to big plays; E&H wins 34-7

By Matt Pitzer

The men’s football team Saturday again fell victim to big plays, much as they did the week before, and lost
to Emory & Henry 34-7 in the Homecoming game. A week ago, the Wildcats fell victim to Maryville, Tenn., because
of three long scoring drives, but basically outplayed their opponent. Saturday, however, the Wasps took advantage of the big plays
to take a 21-7 halftime lead and then grinded out the game in the second half, racking up some big
numbers.

Bruce Bannister was one of the offensive highlights for the Wildcats, picking up 49 yards on 18 carries. Quarterback Kevin
Holzworth looked impressive at times, completing 13 of 24 passes for 161 yards. But Emory & Henry managed to gain
250 yards on the ground and 226 yards through the air. Most of those came on a couple of first-half
big plays and in the second half, when the Wasps were trying to run off time.

The Wasps scored the first touchdown in the first quarter on a third-down, 58-yard pass from quarterback Jason Strange to
Aaron Fuller. Fuller made a medium-length reception, but found himself behind most of the secondary and scampered in for the
score. Davidson, however, bounced right back and drove 69 yards on nine plays to tie the game. Bruce Ban-nister capped
the drive with a 3-yard plunge off to the left side. On the possession, the Cats were able to mix
up both rushing and passing plays to march down the field. In the second quarter, the Wasps scored on a
38-yard drive, of which 34 yards came on a single pass play. Just before halftime, though, Davidson was hurt again
by the big play. Strange found Fuller wide open again, this time down the left sideline. Fuller had made several
shorter receptions on both that and previous drives and made a good fake to get open deep. Fuller scored on
another reception in the second half. Charles Cole rushed for the Wasps’ other two touchdowns.

Sailing takes third in first North Points Regatta at Clemson

This fall’s first North Points regatta was hosted by Clemson University. In a 0-3 knot breeze, Clemson jumped to an
early lead with two first-place finishes in A division. Davidson was a solid third with two third-place finishes. But in
the first set of B division races, Davidson answered with two first places to take the lead as Clemson’s B
division flustered. When racing resumed after a break, the wind was still light, and the committee switched from a two-race
rotation to a one-race rotation. Davidson scored another third, and Clemson won again to pull within one point of Davidson.
When the B division went back out for the third race, Davidson’s B again answered Clemson’s A with another first.
Clemson, still not getting it together in B, fell to five points behind Davidson. In the final race of the
day, both Clemson and Davidson’s A divisions started aggressively, and both were over the starting line early. After returning to
the line to restart, Davidson and Clemson were in seventh and eighth places overall. Fighting back through the fleet, Davidson
ended up fourth, with Clemson third. Each had a commanding lead in one fleet, but when the points were totaled,
Davidson’s consistency paid off as they won by four points. Clemson claimed second place, followed by Citadel, College of Charleston,
Savannah College of Art and Design, UNC Wilmington, NC State, and Duke. Sailing for Davidson this weekend were Lara Onkey,
Andrew Cole, Graham Ernst, and Thu Thieu. The sailing team races at home next weekend for the second North Points
Regatta of the season. The racing will run from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the Lake Campus.

~Sports Staff

Cross Country Invitational: Racing the old guys
By Krisy Ford

This Saturday marked the ninth annual Open Alumni Cross Country Invitational Race. This tradition of bringing back alumni to race
against current cross-country members was started by Head Coach Gary Andrew. “We try to keep in touch with our alumni
through our newsletter,” says Andrew. “This race also allows the alumni to associate with our current team members.” The race
is purposely held on Homecoming weekend in an effort to attract the most participants. The participants started and ended on
the hockey field. The men ran an 8K race consisting of the short as well as the long cross-country loop.
The men started out at 8:45 a.m. Eight team members and thirteen alumni participated. The first runners began coming in
around 9:13. The pack was led by Josh Cookson ‘98 and following him were Erik McMichael ‘95 and John Moss
‘91. Other classes represented by the men were ‘63, ‘67, ‘68, ‘75, ‘84, ‘92, and ‘93. Upon the finish of
the last male runner at approximately 9:35, the women began their 5K race which consisted of the small cross-country loop.
Nine team members and eleven alumni participated. The rain that began to fall as the women started their race didn’t
slow them down. Stephanie Moses, class of ‘97, led the pack with a time of 19:57. She was followed by
Sarah Patterson ‘85 and Elizabeth Bishop ‘95. The women were represented by the classes of ‘84, ‘85, ‘86, ‘88, ‘91,
‘92, and ‘94. “The race is really laid back,” says McMichael. “Everyone jokes around and it’s basically a pride thing.
You get the opportunity to get even with a guy that hasn’t been training, but used to kick your butt
a few years ago.”

Wake Forest vs. Notre Dame---7:00 p.m. Richardson Field
