SPORTS 14 MONDAY, MARCH 7, 1994

Baseball wins 1 of 3 game weekend
By Rick Thurmond

Perhaps the baseball team should be renamed the Comeback Cats. In a three-game series at home against conference favorite Western Carolina, the Wildcats came back from deficits of six, six, and nine runs, respectively. Unfortunately, only one of the rallies resulted in a victory.

On Sunday, the diamond Cats fell behind by nine runs by the fifth inning. Clay Hall started on the mound. Davidson started on the comeback trail in the bottom half of the fifth inning. Senior catcher Brett Boretti walloped a grand slam to pull the team within five. However, they could only manage three more runs and lost by a final mark of 9-7. Boretti, Chad Blackwelder, Paul Brannan, and Jeff Anderson had multi-hit games. Brannan also added a stolen base, his team-leading third. Despite reaching base four times, Brannan, the Cats' leadoff hitter, only scored one run.

On Saturday, Davidson split a doubleheader with Western. In the first game, the Catamounts jumped out to a 7-1 lead by the top of the fifth inning. The Cats refused to die. They came back with six runs in the bottom half to tie the score. Brannan began the rally with a solo home run, his first of the season. Brannan started in center field instead of his usual position in left because of an injury to Jazz Frietas. Brannan’s shot started a string of six straight base hits. Michael New capped the rally with a three-run blast. In the eighth, Anderson tripled for the Cats. He later came in with the winning run on a wild pitch. Freshman Mordechai Stolk got the win in the 8-7 game and Mac Chapman got the save.

In the second game, Davidson fell behind by six runs once again. Brian Cole started. This time, they could not make up the difference. The final count was 9-6. The Wildcats' record now stands at 3-8. In Southern Conference play, they are 2-4. Rainouts during the week against Duke and Wake Forest will be made up at a later date. Frietas’ injury is a hamstring pull. His status is day-to-day.

Clay Hall puts out the runner at first on Saturday.

Once a dream, now a reality
By David Dwyer

When sophomore Churchill Hooff and Carlton Craig, Class of 1993, decided to introduce water polo to Davidson in the spring of 1993, they really weren’t sure what kind of a response the college would offer. Knowing the growth process would be slow, Hooff and Craig hoped to initiate a “grass-roots” program which could compete on the intercollegiate intramural level, as well as with local Charlotte-area water polo organizations. They targeted swimmers and those few students with experience in the sport as core members of the team, and hoped to “recruit” additional players from the water polo P.E. class offered at Baker.

Water polo as a sport is relatively unique to its field. A typical match is divided into four seven-minute quarters; most offensive players establish a perimeter around the opposing goal, and one positions him/herself near the goal to play the role of ‘quarterback’. “There’s a whole lot of whistles,” says Hooff. “Players have to know how to act and how to cheat... it’s a very important part of the game.” For this reason, experience is critical to the success of a team. At Davidson, however, true playing experience is rare. When the Davidson swimming teams sought to raise the level of commitment of their members, water polo suffered because those swimmers could no longer be expected to dedicate a lot of time to the team. Because the swimming season has ended, however, those swimmers have returned to water polo.

When asked what he saw as the future of this young program, Hooff responded, “I see water polo at Davidson as a serious club sport, as a sport that Davidson will be able to host tournaments for and generate significant interest in.” To those students who may have an interest but haven’t come out yet, Hooff says, “Don’t be afraid—there are only two students in the school now who I know of who have any previous water polo experience and both of us are out there trying our hardest to teach everybody who’s interested to play.” Hooff and the rest of the team welcome the participation of members of the student body and hope that water polo will be a fixture as a Davidson club sport in years to come.

The wildcat mascot retires
By Will Cobb

The end of an era is coming to a close as the men’s...Basketball season winds down with the retirement of our current school mascot, “The Cat.” After serving the duties for four years now, it is time for the changing of the Cat. Following the unveiling of senior Greg Fisher at the regular season finale against VMI, I was able to conduct the first exclusive interview with the man behind the mask, who has kept us all entertained at athletic events. Being a mascot is no easy task and requires a lot of hard work. The three major obstacles for Fisher included coming up with creative ideas that are tasteful, getting out of situations that are dangerous like away games, and trying to maintain a high spirit level. These problems are often hard to overcome because a mascot must stay active for the whole game, which usually lasts two hours. 

With so many games for several sports over the years, Fisher was quick to respond to his most embarrassing moment, which occurred at last year’s Southern Conference tournament against UT-Chattanooga. During a time-out, the Moccasin came out with a spear and began to stab our Wildcat. Unarmed and with nowhere to run, “The Cat” was helpless and sadly had to take the abuse. Another hairy moment occurred three years ago against UNCC. The 49er was bent over picking something up when Fisher decided that it would be cute to kick the mascot in the behind, but as Fisher was swinging his leg, the 49er turned around. What happened following should be obvious, and the two mascots began throwing punches, grasping the crowd’s attention on the fight instead of the game. 

On higher notes, Fisher will forever remember the Appalachian State game in Boone three weeks ago. Before the game, the Wildcat and the Mountaineer played a little one-on-one, where Fisher sank both of his shots, something he had never done in costume. The two mascots continued to work together the whole game, maintaining the crowd’s interest. The most memorable moment as far as school spirit is concerned happened last year at the soccer Final Four when 8,000 Davidson fans began cheering “Red, Black.” The moment will be special to everyone who attended the game on that cold afternoon in December, when the whole school and community came together to cheer for the Wildcats. Fisher has really enjoyed his experience working for Jeanette Scire and wants anyone interested in taking his position to contact her at -2378 in the football office.

---

Men's Tennis Sees Stiff Competitors UNC, USC
By Patrick Jopling

The Davidson men’s tennis team ran into some stiff competition over the past two weekends, for they had to play two top 25 opponents, the North Carolina Tarheels and the South Carolina Gamecocks. While both matches were somewhat lopsided, the Cats played a strong match against South Carolina. All matches, singles and doubles, were close with senior Chris Parker taking a set off Ben Cook at #3 singles. Davidson beat Francis Marion 5-0 in a unique four singles and one doubles format. The team was sharp, and they destroyed the inferior Swamp Foxes. Despite the difficult early season matches and with a 4-3 record, the toughest part of the schedule is over and conference play will begin soon. The next match is this Friday at 2:00 versus Pfeifer followed by a huge match Saturday at 10:00 a.m. versus Richmond, who is ranked two spots ahead of Davidson in the Region III rankings.

---

3 Wrestlers Place in So.Con.
By Will Cobb

Coming off an impressive performance in the regular season finale, the Davidson wrestling team looked to cap off a successful season at the Southern Conference meet yesterday in Asheville. They did just that by placing three wrestlers for the first time in many years. Senior Sam Knowles and sophomore Sean Harvey both placed fourth in their respective weight classes. The brightest spot of the day came from freshman Miles Miller, who placed third in the 167 category when he defeated VMI's Hanson Menefree in the consolation finals. Davidson recorded 12 1/2 team points, more than double last year's total, to reflect upon the significant progress the team has made all year. Miller's performance is the highest finish for a Davidson wrestler in years at the Southern Conference meet and he ended the season with an outstanding 29-14 record. "These guys performed up to my expectations. Next year I feel we will do even better, especially with our youth and a strong recruiting class coming in," said head coach Tom Oddo. Look for this wrestling team to have more 3rd place finishes and higher in the years to come. Now it's only a matter of time.

---

Photo by Mike Wang
Fans cheered for the mascot at Monday's game against VMI.