PORTS. 14 MONDAY, APRIL 11, 1994

Women’s tennis to host conference championship
By Matt Pitzer

Heading into this weekend’s Southern Conference tournament, hosted by Davidson, the women’s team expects its top competition for the title to be Furman. The Paladins earlier defeated the Wildcats, but several of the matches were close, and, with a few breaks, Davidson should be able to knock off Furman.

“They’re a little tougher than we are at each position,” coach Caroline Price said. “But we’ve been able to hang with them.”

In the regular season match, two of the doubles matches went to three sets and several singles matches included 7-5 sets.

“The good news is that we’re competitive at the majority of positions,” Price said. “They are definitely better, but if we execute well and consistently, we should be able to beat them.”

The past few weeks, the team has been executing at a higher level more consistently, according to Price, a key to winning the tournament. She attributed that change to team members improving their ability to eliminate distractions.

“All nine players must operate at that higher level,” she said. “They’ve gotten better at staying intense throughout the match. The ability they’ve learned is mental toughness.”

Last week, Davidson locked up the second seed in the conference on Sunday with a 9-0 win over Marshall. The Wildcats lost to Virginia Tech on Tuesday, but came back with wins over Appalachian State on Wednesday and Georgia Southern on Saturday. They faced Marshall Sunday.

In the conference tournament, which is a flight competition in which all the number one seeds compete, the number twos play each other and so forth down the ladder, Davidson should have two top slots and several second and third seeds. At the number six place, Susannah Cobb, who has not lost in the regular season, has the top position. At number two doubles, Cyndi Hess and Kimberly Nance haven’t lost either. Except for the first singles position, the Wildcats should be number two or three at each spot.

Davidson will host the conference tournament for the second

See Tennis on page 15

Baseball sweeps Furman
By David Dwyer

Davidson rebounded from three losses last weekend to East Tennessee State by sweeping the Furman Paladins behind strong pitching performances from freshman Jason Coulombe and sophomores Chris Pollard and Jeff Andrews.

In the opening game of Saturday's doubleheader, Davidson pulled out a run in the bottom of the ninth inning to steal a 4-3 win. In the second game, Coulombe, on in relief, allowed five hits in five innings as the Cats pounded Furman starter Andrew Banks and his relief for 11 runs, securing an 11-3 victory in the process.

In the final game on Sunday, Davidson starting pitcher Jeff Andrews gave up two runs in the top of the first inning, but went on to hold Furman to two runs until he was relieved in the top of the eighth inning by Rhett Ingerick, who pitched the remainder to get the save.

Davidson’s first inning was highlighted by doubles from catcher Brett Boretti and right fielder Drew Fassett, which were responsible for Davidson’s first two runs. In the bottom of the second, CF Jazz Frietas singled and Andrews followed with a ground rule double that advanced Frietas to third. Brett Boretti walked to load the bases, and cleanup hitter Clay Hall batted in two runners with a single past the Furman second baseman.

In the top of the fourth, a Furman batter doubled to center with a man on second. As the runner headed home from second base, the throw from shallow center got to Boretti just before the collision at the plate, which left Boretti standing firm and a charging Paladin wheeling backward. After a tirade from the Furman base coach, Furman got two more runs, but its offense was done for the day. Davidson got two more in the fifth and four in the sixth to increase its lead to 10-4. Ingerick mopped up to preserve the sweep and a much-needed set of wins for the Cats.

For the second weekend in a row, Davidson proved it can score runs in big numbers, tallying24 over the course of three games. Complemented by three strong pitching performances, Davidson thoroughly outplayed the Paladins. Davidson faces UNC-Greensboro on Tuesday, Ga. Tech Wednesday, and then a three-game set with Georgia Southern next weekend.

World Cup Exhibition Match
7:00 p.m., April 20
Seats Still Available
Tickets $16.50 & $9.00.
Go to Baker or call:
(704) 892-3275 or (800) 768-CATS

Sunday, April 17
Open Practice
Monday, April 18
Open Practice

By Lee Brumby

Davidson’s women’s lacrosse team recorded its first win of the season last Monday by crushing Greensboro College. The Wildcats soundly defeated the visitors with an 18-4 pounding. Before the big win, Davidson had only scored 22 goals in its four previous games combined. Leading the offense for the Wildcats were sophomores Hedy Moolenaar with five goals and Anne Sutton with three.

Davidson struck quickly with two goals in the first minute of the game when junior Liz Schaper connected with Moolenaar for the first goal and then scored herself for her second goal of the lacrosse season. “Everyone played well and contributed,” said junior Kerry Monaghan. The lacrosse team, now 1-4, hopes this is the start of a new trend. “The win gave us a lot of confidence that we needed. We’re improving with every game and we feel really good about going into the game on Wednesday,” said Schaper. Everything’s looking up for the Wildcats now. The team is excited about the return of Amanda Bryan to the lineup after a broken finger. Davidson plays Guilford at home on Wednesday at 4:30 p.m., so come out and support the team.

Cat Nips

Hank Aaron: a hero overlooked
By Will Cobb

Tonight at 9:07, twenty years and three days ago, one of baseball’s greatest players made history when he hit a 1-0 pitch over the left field wall for home run number 715. Hank Aaron started his major league career on March 14, 1954, for the Milwaukee Braves, picking up three hits, including his first home run. Twenty years and one month later, he became baseball’s home run king. The old record of 714 held by Babe Ruth was considered one of the most secure records, especially when Willie Mays retired with 660 in 1973.

The long road that brought Aaron to this pedestal was not glorious, as he battled racism at the harshest level. When Jackie Robinson signed the first major league contract for a black man with the Dodgers on October 23, 1945, the white population quickly expressed outrage in response to a black man playing in a “white man’s game.” Almost thirty years later, the same bitterness surfaced because a black man was not just playing, he was about to break one of the most heralded records in baseball. Despite enduring constant death threats and letters addressed “Dear Nigger,” Aaron maintained composure and focus.

As the last player remaining from the Negro Leagues, Aaron’s first swing of the 1974 season produced a three-run homer to tie Ruth. Three days later on April 8, 1974, Hank Aaron stepped up to the plate in the fourth inning at Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium, with the score tied at 3-3. He took the second pitch off Al Downing over the left field wall to break the tie between Aaron and Ruth for one of baseball’s most cherished records.

Many people at the time wished that day had never happened, and that attitude seems to prevail today. Aside from being the home run king, Aaron endured an unpleasant experience to reach the plateau, displaying an unparalleled level of courage and determination. Before entering the major leagues, Aaron had to progress through the minor league system, whose racist fans would chase off players with their harmful threats. Aaron survived from the SALLY league to the big league, displaying a determination never to quit. Once he got the chance, the laconic Aaron quietly produced big numbers in the shadow of the flamboyant Willie Mays. At age 39 in 1973, he hit 40 home runs to become the oldest player to reach that level, raising his career total to 713. In the last game of the season, Aaron got three hits, all singles, and America was forced to wait.

See Hank continued on page 16