THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, APRIL 11, 1994

The Fourth Grade Syndrome

“I hate you.” Those were the words scrawled on the leg of the little boy’s pants. I stared at him for a moment and he averted my eyes. “Who wrote that?” I asked, confused. “I did,” he replied matter-of-factly, a hint of sadness in his voice. “Who did you write that to?” I pushed the point. “Myself. Because I hate myself.”

He is a ten-year-old fourth grader whom I play with every week. He makes A’s and B’s in school, his favorite subject is math, he has a grin that is wide and bright, and he hates himself. It is known as the Fourth Grade Syndrome. While statistics nationwide say we are losing black men, it is in this year that the problems begin. In fourth grade, learning becomes less active, children begin to grow, and the intimidation of size becomes a factor. Teachers have lower expectations, peer pressure materializes, and small black boys begin to dream of making money the way the television teaches them. They believe their only options are the NBA, rap music, or drug dealing.

There is no reason why this young child should not love himself. Perhaps part of it is his family, I do not know. I do know that what happens in the home cannot always be remedied, but perhaps it can be combatted. The same is true for what happens in the schools. There are certain things black males must do to help themselves. It has been said that a young black man cannot dream of being successful when he has not seen success for another black man. In these ways, the solution to the problem may seem somewhat limited. If I am not a black man who can be a mentor, what could I ever do to make a difference?

The disappearance of the black male is not the problem of one race and one gender. It runs much deeper than that—to a societal nightmare that America is slowly realizing exists. If we as a country do not begin to help alleviate the first stage of this widespread problem, it will come back to destroy this country once founded on ideal beliefs in many ways.

Self-esteem is the primary issue. If I can make this small child who hates himself realize he has worth, he can begin to visualize his potential. It is not easy, I realize, but the things that matter are never really easy. We can sit around and debate why America has become such an endangered country with youth at the point of destruction or we can take steps towards change and help start a movement towards something positive, no matter how small our personal missions seem. Most of us say we don’t have the time. Time is limited but if we were ever to see the destruction closer to home, I’m sure we’d begin to make the sacrifices to remedy the disaster. Why wait?

Jeff Kent

Rudeness and Irresponsibility

Last week's Davidsonian included an article by Lori Brown in which she recounted the events of one Saturday night when she was awakened by some intoxicated Davidson students cavorting around the senior apartments. Although her noisy neighbors were certainly rude and inconsiderate, Brown carries her argument a bit too far. Lori felt that her rude awakening (no pun intended) made her a “victim of an irresponsibility that invades all aspects of Davidson life.” Besides this statement, she also described the behavior of these inebriated students as un-Christian and hypocritical, claiming that they “had absolutely no right” to keep her awake until 3:00 a.m.

Granted, the notorious perpetrators were acting inconsiderately, but in a cohabitation environment these unfortunate incidents occasionally occur. It would be one thing if we were talking about a Tuesday during mid-term week, but this was a Saturday night. If the drunken revelers were so disruptive and ignored polite protests, then the R.A. should defuse the situation. Ms. Brown has a valid right to sleep, but comparing this incident to some kind of rampant irresponsibility extends the issue beyond reason. Let’s keep things more down to earth: Rudeness does not constitute some terrible sickness eating away at the moral fiber of this campus. These noisy drunks were rude, not an affront to the principles on which Davidson was founded.

If all parties involved were a little more considerate of each other, situations like this could be avoided. Appropriate courtesies should be observed, but we all know that this does not always happen. In these instances we deal with impoliteness—not a symbol of the decay of Davidson’s principles. I’m sorry Ms. Brown lost a few hours of sleep some Saturday night. However, if she feels that life in the senior apartments is so disruptive, then she should try living “down the hill” for a few days and she would sleep like a baby for evermore.

Rosie Molinaryuntil it’s our little brothers and sisters or even our children to do something positive? There shouldn’t be any fourth grade boys in this country who blatantly display their self-hate. Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing should never become an autobiography of a lost child.

The Simpsons and Christianity

What does the popular cartoon - The Simpsons have to do with Christianity, you may ask? (Oh no, he’s trying to do it again. You know, he wants to relate Christianity to yet another realm of popular culture.) Many Christians I know are quick to point out how shows such as The Simpsons, Beavis & Butthead, and Married with Children are the primary causes of the breakdown of Western society. Rather than condemning such shows (okay, I finally realize that Beavis & Butthead isn’t that funny, especially after the four hundredth re-run), I enjoy watching them as satire which points out what is really wrong with society. One such example is an episode of The Simpsons.

In the episode, Homer Simpson becomes friends with his “Christian” neighbor Ned Flanders. Some of the humorous stereotypes of Christianity include the Flanders family satellite television with every channel but the Bible network parentally locked out, and one of the Flanders children telling his self-justifying father that “lies make baby Jesus cry.” Another stereotype of Christianity which is humorous yet alarming is the stereotype of self-righteous, condemning Christians: Ned Flanders is stopped by the police who administer a sobriety test to him. Of course, as this is happening, his church bus drives by and the people in the bus look upon him with shock and indignation. The next day, when Ned and his family go to church, he tells his wife that church is “a place of love and acceptance.” When Ned and his family enter the sanctuary, everyone whispers comments such as “pure evil” and “the fallen one.” Finally, the service begins with the minister’s sermon—“What Ned did.”

The reason that this episode is so humorous is because it mirrors our society. How many times are Christians, including me, more concerned with the latest gossip or with justifying ourselves than we are concerned with helping and loving people? How many times do we look scornfully upon others while justifying ourselves by saying “we are loving the sinner, but hating the sin”? How many times do Christians reduce the problems of society to “the liberal agenda” or “the breakdown of family values”? It is unfortunate that we, as Christians, do not realize that our religion is responsible for most of the problems of society. We have systematically exterminated millions of Jews. We have justified enslaving the African continent. We have driven homosexuals and other groups out of our churches. The list of atrocities is endless. Only through realizing our culpability can we move forward and try to change the Christian church into a true “place of love and acceptance.”

Strong faith holds compassion for all of humanity.

Vital continued from page 7

Conversely, a person in weak faith who has not questioned his beliefs and made them his own, will approach others with the intent to convert or even persecute. Weak faith can only have compassion for those within its own group (and, ultimately, only for itself). Strong faith holds compassion for all. Those in a society which champions one faith over all others are particularly susceptible to weak faiths. To have strong faith they must question the dominant faith—an activity their society strongly discourages.

Davidson College has openly declared itself a Presbyterian college. Recently, it has moved away from making this the dominant faith of its community by having a diverse background of faiths in its students, staff, and faculty. This progress towards encouraging strong faith should be applauded, but there is more room for improvement. A significant weakness of our college and community lies in the policy which requires the Board of Trustees to be exclusively Christian. It has been argued that this policy is necessary in order to ensure that Davidson will continue in a positive Christian direction in both the short run and the long run. Yet the example of intolerance that this policy manifests can only steer Davidson in the direction of weak faith—even if all of the trustees are people with strong faiths! Currently, Davidson demonstrates that only those of Christian faith will be considered for positions of greatest influence in its community. This example risks encouraging people to accept Christianity nominally in order to avoid the discrimination that would come from choosing otherwise. Such coerced assimilation can only lead to weak faith.

Davidson needs to be a community which promotes religious tolerance and acceptance at all levels so that all who come within its midst will be encouraged to seek and find strong faith. Otherwise, “Presbyterian college” is merely a label for weak faith.