2 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1994

No construction date set for new outdoor basketball courts

By Susan Warren

After an overwhelming majority of the SGA voted for the construction of basketball courts behind Martin Court Building F, there
is no set date for when the basketball courts will be built. Dr. John Kelton, Chairman of the Facility Planning
Committee, approved the basketball court project. Presently this committee is working with Residence Life, Physical Plant, and other groups to
raise funds. Due to uncertainty about whether the courts will be permanent or temporary, it is not known how much
the courts will cost. The possibility of taking parts of the basketball equipment next to Richardson Field is also an
option. Some of the current basketball goals on campus are not in use and could be moved to the new
site instead of purchasing new ones.

Senior Class President B.J. Rudell, sponsor of the SGA resolution, hopes that a permanent court, instead of a temporary one,
will be built. He says there is “no reason to rent a court when we can buy it for a
little bit more.”

Outdoor basketball players look forward to new courts being built behind Apartment F. Photo by Lauren Edlis

Concentrations in the college curriculum: a news analysis

Minor continued from page 1

“Problems are solved with many facets of study, and concentrations aim to expose students to this,” says Williams. “Though every
Davidson graduate can make connections between different areas of study—that being the point of a liberal arts education—concentrations give structure
to the study.”

Why Concentrations?

The concentration is a discipline quite distinct from the concept of minors and unique majors. The “Center” major, done through
the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies, is designed completely by the student: It also requires writing and defending a senior thesis.
The minor compares with the concentration with the smaller number of required courses; however, there are still several distinctive differences.
The concentration allows for greater flexibility within the discipline for students’ course selection. Furthermore, the minor is completely restricted to
one department while the concentration must be interdisciplinary—that is, bridging the gap between at least two different departments.

The argument against minors which has prevailed among the faculty at Davidson emphasizes “breadth rather than specialization.” Says Williams, “The
more mechanisms you have, the more it hinders students from exploring with various classes. There are primarily three aspects of
study here: the major, the general education requirements, and ‘other.’ The ‘other’ category is left available for students to use
either to support his/her major or as a source of exploration. There is a strong fear that minors or double
majors would subtract from the freedom of the ‘other’ category.” Davis agrees: “The faculty really fears losing the freedom for
students to take electives—what many conceive to be the point of a liberal arts education.” Williams adds, however, that the
Educational Policy Committee could very well look into the idea of double majors and minors at Davidson again this year.

Student Reaction

Senior Emily Crowder really

The Soda Shop

A Davidson Tradition Since 1951

NEW HOURS

Now Open Every Evening

Mon, Tues, Wed 8am - 8pm

Thurs, Fri, Sat 8am - 9pm

Sunday 9am - 8pm

Breakfast Daily Until 11:30am

Take-out Orders Welcomed!

104 South Main Street, Davidson » 896-7743Gender Studies concentrator, Crowder says, “I have really seen attitude changes among my peers.
The in-depth study really causes you to see a wide spectrum of beliefs through and through and really results in
you feeling much more knowledgeable about your area of interest.” An additional appeal is the enthusiasm of the professors participating
in the program: “Professors do it because they really want to!” Senior economics major Devjani Dev cites the interdisciplinary nature
of the study as most appealing to her. Both a Gender Studies and an International Studies concentrator, she says, “I
am exposed to many different viewpoints in so many different departments, while there are still courses left for me to
experiment. A double major simply would not have exposed me to so many departments.”

Dev, however, says a student’s participation depends primarily on the area and level of interest. “If you want to go
more in-depth in a particular area, you should consider a concentration which emphasizes several smaller areas. If you want a
wider exposure to very different subjects, you should more likely just take a variety of classes which interest you.”

Senior history major Jay Jennings feels like he has truly benefited from the different types of learning to which he
has been exposed. His concentration in Applied Mathematics “allows [him] to move from such a focused concentration on his history
major to truly take advantage of the liberal arts education.” Senior Applied Mathematics concentrator Thad Reece, on the other hand,
sees the concentration as more restricting for his interests. Though pleased with his concentration and the fact that there is
an opportunity to focus on another study besides one's major, Reece says that “a minor would allow me to concentrate
on math itself rather than on peripheral things that simply aren’t in my area of interest.”

In addition, Reece says that “it seems unfair that concentrations are offered in certain areas of study but not in
others—that some students are receiving credit for classes they are taking in a certain area while others who may be
taking many courses in psychology, for example, are not.”

Is there the possibility for growth? “Of course there is always the opportunity for growth simply considering the countless number
of new ways of using existing resources,” says Williams. “In fact, there has been the suggestion of a new Cognitive
Science concentration, though it has not been officially proposed as yet.” The faculty is, however, wary about how many concentrations
Davidson can support and where the line should be drawn. Williams says, “It may end up like the Sunset Law,
in which some may eventually be taken out while others are brought in. It will really be up to the
faculty to decide.”

BOWLES HOLLOWELL CONNER & Co.
INVESTMENT BANKERS

BOWLES HOLLOWELL CONNER & CO. IS THE PREMIER PROVIDER OF MERGER AND ACQUISITION AND PRIVATE FINANCE EXPERTISE TO THE MIDDLE
MARKET. OUR CLIENTS INCLUDE PRIVATE EQUITY GROUPS AND DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL CORPORATIONS. WE OFFER A TWO-YEAR ANALYST PROGRAM OPEN TO
MOTIVATED UNDERGRADUATES WHO HAVE A DEMONSTRATED RECORD OF ACCOMPLISHMENT. JOIN US FOR A COMPANY PRESENTATION AND RECEPTION.

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 7-9 PM
CARNEGIE GUEST HOUSE, THE DRAWING ROOM

FOR MORE INFORMATION ABOUT BOWLES HOLLOWELL CONNER & CO., PLEASE SEE OUR COMPANY BROCHURES AT THE OFFICE OF CAREER SERVICES.

BOWLES HOLLOWELL CONNER & Co.
CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA
