THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, MARCH 7, 1994

Cats take second in tournament

So-Con continued from page 1

maining, but Western had conference player of the year Frankie King, who came alive. After scoring 20 first-half points, King
added 21 more, pulling the Catamounts to within two points with 15 seconds remaining and the ball. After Williams blocked
a shot with seven seconds remaining, Western took the ball out on the baseline. But point guard Chris Alpert stole
the inbounds pass and was fouled. To seal the game, Alpert made both free throws and Davidson escaped with a
93-89 victory.

Williams finished with a career-high 30 points along with a team-high eight rebounds. Alpert finished with 13 points and nine
assists while Narat remained consistent, chipping in 18 points. “We played with a lot of courage and guts, with great
emotion. It was an outstanding basketball game,” said McKillop.

This would set up a rubber match against UT-Chattanooga, a 99-91 overtime victor over Georgia Southern. This would be Davidson’s
first conference final since the 1987 heartbreaker 66-64 loss to Marshall. It would also be a rematch from the 1986
final, when center Gerry Born hit a 22-foot jump shot at the buzzer to send Davidson to the NCAA tournament.

People say there’s no better basketball environment than a conference tournament. Not many would argue with the scene in the
Asheville Civic Center last night. UT-C and Davidson would go toe-to-toe, beginning to end, from tip to the final buzzer,
as hard as they possibly could. Davidson led most of the way, taking a 38-35 halftime advantage behind Brandon Williams'
12 points and Chris Alpert’s five assists. Twice in the second half Davidson led by five, but each time they
proved unable to extend. With 4:22 remaining George Spain gave Davidson a 64-61 advantage with a turnaround jumper. The Cats
would not score again.

Mark Donnelly came through huge off the bench, picking up nine points while pulling down three rebounds. Williams led with
14 points and nine boards. In the closing seconds, controversy sparked as the referees continued to be consistently inconsistent. Harwood
was fouled while shooting, but the referee ruled the foul before the shot. With eight seconds remaining, Davidson set up
a play to win the game. The Cats had three shots, but none fell. The final stood 65-64.

Though losses don’t get much tougher than this one, this year’s basketball team has absolutely nothing to be down about.
The Davidson student section never sat down because they were too excited. The way this team has performed inspired everyone
and rekindled a strong sense of school spirit for basketball untouched in some time. Very few teams in the country
have won 22 games or more this season, and we aren’t finished yet. What players like Janko Narat and Jason
Zimmerman have done cannot be thanked enough. They will be remembered fondly by all of the students and fans who
watched them while they played here at Davidson. Though accurate to say that the 1993-94 men's basketball team will never
be forgotten, we must remember that the season isn’t over yet.

Women's hoops ends regular season

By Neil Marks

The women’s basketball team ended its regular season with a 90-64 loss to a hot Marshall team, which was playing
off a huge win over Furman. Plagued withInjuries, the team started its youngest line-up ever with three freshmen and two
sophomores. Carolyn Kirsch led all scorers with 15, while Amy Scalcucci added 10. This wasn’t enough, however, to overcome the
motivated Marshall team. “We played pretty well in the first half, but we started having trouble breaking the press. We
got into a running game, which we really shouldn’t have,” said Scalcucci. The team now looks ahead to Thursday’s Southern
Conference tournament at Furman. As the eighth seed, they will most likely play top-seeded Georgia Southern. Injuries will again be
a factor for the tournament. Sophomore Maggie Young has been out since February with torn ligaments in her knee, and
Erin is questionable to play. “We have lots of obstacles to overcome. Maggie always gives 110 percent every time she
steps out on the court. She has so much heart; and Erin is a huge offensive threat. But people stepping
off the bench, like Amy who scored 10 and 15 points the last two games, keep us going,” said Kirsch.
Even though Georgia Southern is the top seed, the Cats like their chances in Thursday’s game. “We played Georgia Southern
twice and we played them close both times. They say it’s hard to beat a team three times, so we
are going to go in with the attitude that we can win,” said Kirsch. “We are building a team right
now. What’s most important to us is that we give our all. Even though we didn’t win a Southern Conference
game this year, we built a reputation in the league as the ‘hustling Cats.’ We want to enter the tournament
with our heads high and keep our reputation,” added Kirsch.

The season has been a tough one for the young but talented team. “We have a lot to learn. We
are really young and we need to get tougher and stronger. We have the potential, though, and in a year
or two we could be a top-caliber team,” said sophomore Maggie Young.

The Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St. Suite 116
Cornelius, NC 28031
(704) 892-7030
MONDAY - SATURDAY

Check Out Our New Boot Selection
SALOMON
Vasque
Timberland
OUTDOORS

SELECT TENTS 30% OFF
SELECT SOCKS 40% OFF

Model Boots
Shops on the Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn.

Photo by Amy Laukkenan
Sophomore Brandon Williams led the Wildcats in scoring last night. He and Janko Narat made the all-conference team.

Earn extra cash for Spring Break... donate plasma. Earn up to $175.00 a month by donating life-saving plasma! Visit our
friendly, modern Center and find out more about the opportunity to earn cash while helping others.

1st Time Donors Eligible For $385.00 In Weekly Cash & Prizes!
G plasma alliance
“people helping people”
1511 Central Ave
Charlotte, N.C. 28205
(704) 333-0335
M-Th 6:30A-9P
Sun 9:00A-6P

EVERY NIGHT IS COLLEGE NIGHT AT FORD'S SEAFOOD, BBQ, AND CATERING
Bring in your student I.D. & get $1.50 off any entree
Enjoy a really delicious meal at a really great price. Our fast, friendly service & atmosphere make dinner an enjoyable
break! Don't forget to save room for our homemade banana pudding, voted "Best Dessert" by Lake Norman Magazine.
Conveniently located just minutes away from Davidson College
Must present I.D. to validate offer
Hours: Tues-Sat 5:00-9:00pm
Lunch: Fri 11:30-2:00pm
Highway 21 South
Cornelius, NC
(704) 892-3362
