4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1994

NAMES quilt to arrive Thursday
By Beth Bacon

On November 10 through 13, the NAMES Project AIDS Memorial Quilt is coming to the Davidson College campus. At the
opening ceremony on November 10th at 7:30 p.m., the panels will be unfolded, and the names of people represented by
the panels will be read aloud by such notables as Mayor Vinroot of Charlotte, Mayor Knox of Davidson, and former
mayor of Charlotte Harvey Gantt. Several prominent Davidson alumni will also be reading names: AIDS Educator Samuel Johnson and founder
of the Gay Men’s Health Crisis Jim Pepper. Missy Kuykendall, Dean of Faculty Bob Williams, Dean of Students Tom Shandley,
and leaders from the arts, religious, and civic communities of Charlotte will read as well.

Assistant Director for Union Programs Sherry Malushizky and Union Board President Nat May are responsible for the Quilt’s arrival. After
a long application process, the Quilt was approved to come to Davidson. According to Senior Eleanor Hatcher, there are “definitely
more than 200 Davidson students” volunteering to help with the Quilt. Hatcher and Union Director William Brown are responsible for
finding volunteers. Hatcher also says that there is “a good turnout of faculty, staff, and members of the Davidson community.
We thank everyone who has participated.” However, if anyone who has not already voiced an interest in helping would like
to, volunteers are still needed.

The entire quilt covers 11 football fields and represents only 12 percent of the people in the United States who
have died of AIDS. Local panels and panels of college-age people have been requested, among others, to come to Davidson.
There will be approximately 460 individual panels on display. “I think it is going to be a really emotional event
for everyone who comes,” says Hatcher, because the Quilt is “something that is so relevant to such a central part
of our lives today.”

AIDS Educator Michael Kennedy spoke in Phi Hall last Thursday. He intended to bring an AIDS patient with him to
the meeting, but the patient fell very ill at the last minute and was unable to attend. The Health Fair
is taking place on Wednesday, November 9. On the same theme, but not directly related to the Quilt, Dr. Ruth
Westheimer is speaking on Wednesday, November 10 in Love Auditorium.

A fashion-show benefit is taking place on Saturday, November 12 in the 900 Room. It is sponsored by SGA, BSC,
ISA, Patterson Court, FLAG, and SERCH. Approximately 75 models, representing over 30 organizations, are participating in the show. “We want
the fashion show to be a fun, light-hearted, inclusive event for the whole campus after having viewed the Quilt for
a few days,” says Zac Lacy, a FLAG representative who is helping with the publicity for the show. “It will
be a good way to release tension.”

“It is an honor that the Quilt is coming to our campus,” Hatcher says. “I think it would be a
real shame to have it come and have anyone miss it. I’m so excited!”

Photo by Rob Kosicki
Michael Kennedy spoke about AIDS awareness Thursday.

Davidson-in-Washington plans begin

Every summer the Department of Political Science conducts a program that enables Davidson students to earn two course credits by
working and studying in Washington, D.C. The eight-week program will run from early June to early August and will involve
16 students. Each student will do an internship somewhere in the Washington area and will take a seminar dealing with
U.S. politics which will be taught by Dr. Shelley Rigger of the political science department. Participants will live in apartments
on the George Washington University campus.

Students who are interested are invited to a meeting in Chambers 211 at 4:30 p.m. on Thursday, November 10. Interested
students may pick up application forms in Dr. Rigger's office (Chambers 203-A). Students who are interested in the program but
are unable to attend this meeting should contact Dr. Rigger.

School nominates 4 students for Watson
By Mary Clare Jalonick

As Davidson seniors begin to worry about high-paying jobs, prestigious graduate schools, and financial needs, some students look ahead to
next year and want to immerse themselves in a different kind of environment. Seniors Rachel Newcomb, Phoebe Dean, Milica Tomasevic,
and Charlie Polster all seek to pursue their own unique interests and gain all they can from their post-graduate studies.
All four are candidates for the Watson Fellowships, a program that issues around 50 grants of $15,000 each year to
students around the country. The students must study abroad for a year; each student proposes his or her own field
of study.

What Makes Watson Unique
The Fellowships, begun in 1968 and now chaired by a Davidson graduate, are awarded to students from 50 schools around
the country.Each year a committee of 10 Davidson faculty members chooses four Davidson nominees, then each of the four must
submit his or her proposal to the national Watson committee. In the past, anywhere from one to three Davidson students
have been chosen. The fellowships are generally characterized as being a bit offbeat. Students propose very specific areas of study
and often choose to travel to developing countries. German Professor Hansford Epes, a long-standing member of the nominating committee, says
that the proposals usually contain “a sense of the imaginative, and are a little bit off the wall.” Sara Carlson
is heading up Davidson’s Watson nomination process and is currently a news intern on campus. She was a Watson Fellow
herself after her graduation in 1993; she studied native pony breeds of the North Atlantic. David Tweedie ’94 is currently
studying the roots of Appalachian fiddle music in Canada, Ireland, and Dean Raney ’89 compared the approaches to sexual assault
in Francophone countries.

The Candidates
Epes says that the committee nominates candidates “who we think can win. We look for people who interview well and
have a proposal that grows from what they have done in the past and will contribute to what they do
in the future.” The fellowship is not merit-based like the Fulbright or Marshall scholarships. Epes calls the fellowship “more freewheeling
and unique.” Each of the four candidates has a proposal distinctive to their own personality. From ancient mysticism to faith
in the stars, these students have interests that are completely original.

Rachel Newcomb
After spending a semester in Morocco, Rachel Newcomb knew that she wanted to go back. “All the rumors that you
hear about it are untrue,” she says. “It really is a wonderful place.” Inspired by Professor Jonathan Berkey’s Islamic Civilization
class, Newcomb wants to study a special Islamic mysticism in the Middle East called “Sufism.” She would travel to Morocco,
India, Egypt, and Senegal. Sufi communities proliferate the Islamic world, and she wants to travel to many of them. “Sufism
is an offshoot of Islam that stresses a deep love for and personal communion with God. I want to see
if it is being threatened with present-day fundamentalism and secularization.” A History major from Rock Hill, South Carolina, Newcomb is
excited about the proposal. She also wants to study mystical poetry there. “The Sufis have a lot of poetry, and
writing is my favorite thing to do.”

Phoebe Dean
Last spring Phoebe Dean’s father traveled to South Africa and met a fascinating older man. This man is the “longest
banned person in South Africa,” and he was looking for a biographer. When considering what she wanted to do next
year, Dean decided that she could do the job. The man, affiliated with the African National Congress, has been banned
from all political life in South Africa. “Basically, I would do the biography as a window to studying the world
of South African politics.” She would base her study in Durban, in the state of Natal, but would travel to
Capetown and Johannesburg as well. Dean, an English major from New Smyrna Beach, Florida, also sees this as a chance
to learn more about the writing process.

Milica Tomasevic
A French major from Yugoslavia, Milica Tomasevic has always been fascinated with fate and how people look for the answers.
Tomasevic spent last year in France, and there she found that many people put their faith in astrology. Talking with
her friends in her war-ravaged home country, she found that many of them were looking to the stars as well.
Her interest was thus piqued, and she is proposing to travel to France, England, Argentina, and Colombia to study “how
and why astrology is becoming a surrogate for more conventional forms of religion.” Tomasevic wants to discover to what extent
people alter their actions to follow the stars and whether their following is due to environmental factors such as race,
education, or region.

Charlie Polster
Charlie Polster is a man of many interests. He is majoring in International Medicine through the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies
and plans to get his master’s degree in International Studies and eventually go into international humanitarian trade in Russia. Incorporating
all of his diverse studies into one, Polster is proposing to study the folk medicine of the indigenous tribes of
Northern Siberia and the Far East.

The candidates’ final proposals are due Tuesday, and the nominees will be interviewed in December. The winners will be notified
in March. Carlson supports the program with enthusiasm. “Watson Fellows have always been very successful in doing their projects —
not always in what they originally intended to do, but in learning something about themselves.” Dean says, “I think that
the people applying are wonderful. I hope that we all get it.”
