RTS & LIVING MONDAY, MARCH 7, 1994

Screen Scene

Saucy film: the pet detective

By Scott McLean

Well folks, after a brief hiatus I am back with the latest on what’s hot and what’s not in the entertainment world. Having tackled more serious films in my last couple of reviews, I opted this week to handle a light-hearted fluff film instead, this time in the guise of Ace Ventura, Pet Detective. What can I say? I guess I was feeling a little saucy this week. Anyway, I knew that if I saw one more movie with a message, I would sneeze an Oscar myself; besides, even fluff deserves its day in the sun every once in a while.

Jim Carrey, who brought to life such memorable characters as the artificially enhanced bodybuilder Vera de Milo and the psychotic safety inspector Fire Marshall Bill on the series In Living Color, again works his magic in the title role of this mindless flick. As a professional pet investigator, Ace prowls the streets of Miami in search of missing Spots and Fluffys until he finally gets the big case he’s been waiting for. The mission: Find Snowflake, the kidnapped Miami Dolphins’ mascot. Thrown in the mix are the standard supporting characters: the love interest (Courtney Cox), the best friend (Tone Loc), and the paranoid, permanently PMSing police sergeant who is perpetually pissed at Ace’s interference with police protocol (Sean Young) - now say that five times really fast.

As you’ve probably guessed, this movie is silly and stupid with almost no redeeming qualities whatsoever, and I loved every minute of it. Not that I adore every piece of inane cinema I see, but this film had that special something, a certain je ne sais quoi, that set it apart from the others in the same category: it had Jim Carrey. This witty contortioning comedian is a riot and had me rolling in the aisles; of course, I’m a sucker for silly gags. Apparently, this kind of reaction to the film has been occurring all over the country, much to the dismay of critics everywhere, as the movie has enjoyed enormous success.

While this isn’t exactly the kind of feel-good movie of the year the country has been waiting for, it is a pretty good way to spend an hour and a half. So, go with a friend or a loved one, share some popcorn and a Coke, and you'll find yourself chuckling at the flick in spite of every effort to restrain yourself.

That’s all for this week, folks! Stay tuned as next week there will be a very special edition of Screen Scene in which I will make my picks for this year’s Academy Awards. Until then, y’all have a great week and as always, I’ll see you.

Go Cats

Spirit escalated this year-- but only with the help of spirited cheerleaders, the pep band, and the Wildcat himself.

During the 1993-94 basketball season, Davidson supporters filled the stands in Asheville.

Photo by Amy Laukkanen

Devoted fan Peter Wagner.

By Wendy Lee

The Pep Band

“It’s a great day to be a Wildcat." Spirit Team Advisor Jeanette Scire says, “From the very first note the pep band played, it changed the atmosphere in Baker Sports Complex.”The season has seen a resurgence of spirit at Davidson College. The student section in Belk Arena was filled to capacity during many home basketball games. Students jumped to their feet, cheered on their Wildcats, and the accomplishments of this year’s basketball team have fueled the rejuvenation of spirit. However, much credit also goes to the pep band, dance team, and mascots. Men’s Basketball Head Coach Bob McKillop says, “The spirit of the pep band, dance team, mascot, and student body has been a vital turned Belk Arena into a house of horrors for visiting teams.” Tom Sorboro, Director of Athletic Marketing and Promotions, says, “With a small student body and academic demands, it’s hard to get students to the games. Now that the interest is there, it’s a matter of maintaining it and building upon it.” The entire atmosphere in Baker. All of a sudden, Baker came alive.” Sophomore pep band member Brian Francis said that when he came to Davidson, “There was a void of people getting into the spirit of the games. Being in the pep band has given me a reason to go to see Spirit on page 13.

Before T.V. there was poetry, and it was more entertaining. Poet David Slavitt reads from his work on Thursday. By Shayna Chazin

Before television, before video games, there was poetry to occupy those lazy hours after dinner and before bed. On Thursday night, David R. Slavitt, an eminent poet, novelist, and translator, came to Davidson to read some of his work. With his surprisingly gregarious and refreshing personality, he proved himself to be one who sees the lighter side of poetic art. His menu of poetry ranged from delightfully tragic works (including a poem called “An Extremely Short History of China,” which shouted lines like: “suffering suffering pain more suffering extremely harsh suffering famine suffering...”) to “sappy grandpa poems,” as he liked to call them, to some highly intuitive pieces that scraped gently at the relationships of humans with the Divine (“The Two Peters”). To say the least, Slavitt captured his audience from beginning to end. Though at times his remarks sounded a little callous: “I married a doctor, so I have a hobby [poetry]. Feminism made it okay for me to say this. You at the movies! And I love it.” However, his presence was so captivating that these quips slipped by with little notice.

Slavitt performed a few pieces from his recent book, Avianus, which is a translation of a minor poet's work from the late fourth and early fifth centuries. Just as he described them, the poems from this selection were “very hand-on-hip,” such that they seemed like Aesop’s fables with a twist (of lime). By far the best, however, was his last piece from his newest book, The Metamorphosis of Ovid, in which he passionately recounts the tale of a young daughter in love with her father. The verse was so rich and well-formed that by the time he stopped he had his audience attached to every word. He did not reveal the end, saying laconically, “Now you have to buy the book.”

Slavitt has written fifty books—over fourteen of which are poetry, ten of which are translations, in addition to works of fiction written under the pseudonym Henry Sutton. Slavitt has also published several non-fiction books, performance pieces, screenplays, and editorials.

Photo by Amy Laukkanen
Madcap David Slavitt reads from his hilarious poem "An Extremely Short History of China" before a receptive Morrison room crowd.