THE DAVIDSONIAN

Still Whistlin’ Dixie
Geoff Graham

ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1994

To make the music, you've got to break some hearts

Country is the music of the forlorn, the betrayed, the hurt, and the forgotten. Country is the music of the broken-hearted. When we think of country music, images come to mind of a sad, tortured soul drinking his tears away, alone and forgotten. It’s no surprise that not only the suicide rate, but that of alcoholism, ranks higher among country listeners than among listeners of any other musical genre. The gap expands if we consider only the performers.

Why does desolation plague country music? Perhaps it began back with Hank Williams and his broken-hearted contemporaries. Now it’s an endless cycle: those raised on a music of sadness perpetuate the trend in their own art. Unhappiness begets unhappiness. Perhaps that musical unhappiness makes us that much more susceptible to despair; that’s my theory, anyway. Woe is me and all my fellow country fans. Maybe they really ought “to put warning labels on those sad country songs.”

In any case, that woe is there and will be always. Just as Hank sang “There’s a tear in my beer” decades ago, Clint Black is still keeping “a tight grip on the bottle, gettin’ loose and killin’ time.” Just as Patsy Cline was once “Crazy” over her lost love, Patty Loveless is now left “Holdin’ on to Nothin’ but the Wheel.” We remember not the upbeat yet transient Lari Whites or Ricky Lynn Greggs. We remember the balladeers immortalized in heartache. Willie Nelson, Keith Whitley, and Alan Jackson don’t stay with us for their toe-tapping “Chattahoochees.” We remember “Railroad Lady,” “I’m No Stranger to the Rain,” and “Here in the Real World.” These songs reach out to us in our moments of hopelessness, if not to comfort, at least to empathize. For the despairing don’t want words of optimism, they want words of understanding.

Dwight Yoakam says it best in his 1990 song entitled—appropriately—“Sad, Sad Music”:

I’d swear that I woke up“...because there’s so much that we don’t know about them. We can’t call one developed and one undeveloped, because the differences are so great.”

Photo by Brooke McRae - Students admire Cort Savage's talking sculpture.

Dear Terry,

Homecoming is near, and I am dateless. I have several options, and I am not sure which I should choose. Perhaps you could shed some light. Should I take the safe route and ask a good friend, ensuring an OK time but no action? Alternatively, I could ask someone I am interested in but don’t know well. This is a risky option, and I am afraid it might blow up in my face, even if she says yes. (It’s happened before.) I sure could use some advice on this problem.

Thanks.
Sincerely,
Dateless

Dear Dateless,

I know what you’re thinking, “If I never take a chance, I’ll never bag a babe.” The problem with date function weekends is that they last so long. If your date is a flop, you're stuck with it for two days, unless it’s so bad that you don’t even bother with the second half. Here is another consideration: with your alumni friends coming back, you may want a date who doesn’t demand your undivided attention. Inevitably, you will disappoint someone if you have a high-stress date. If you date, you’ll disappoint your friends, and if you’re a true frat boy, you’ll disappoint your date. You will not enjoy yourself if you have to worry constantly about one or the other. Taking a risk on a date is an exciting enterprise, but there’s no reason to risk one that’s two days long. Ask your dream girl out to dinner or something first, and if all goes well, you may want to ask her to homecoming. And if it isn’t so hot, ask your friend. If you’re really that concerned about hooking up, hook up with somebody else’s date.

Love,
Terry

By Jonathan Brooks

Charcoal drawings, massive upholstered sculptures, and a stable full of horses... the Visual Arts Center kicks off the new year with an exhibit of Davidson art professors’ work. As the viewer first enters the gallery, a landscape of the human body unfolds before the eyes. Herb Jackson’s show “Body of Work” contains charcoal studies of the human body—a deviation from what people familiar with his work may be expecting to see. Jackson’s earlier works have often been non-objective in nature and are typically paintings. Commenting on this aspect of his show, Jackson explained, “It’s interesting to do something different than I usually do. I got interested in this when we offered figure studies in the art department—you’ve got to keep them guessing—but most of my work is completely abstract.”

Charcoal, upholstery, & horses

There are a few paintings intermingled amongst the figure studies which depict the human torso but sway toward the non-objective and give the viewer a taste of Jackson’s work in that medium. As one continues through the gallery, one might be startled to find moving sculptures and loud sounds not typical of an art gallery setting. The room is electric, noisy, and larger than life. This is one aspect which makes Cort Savage’s work so interesting. According to Savage, “Sound and motion are elements of form in sculpture.” One may find working telephones, a circular saw, a jar of buttons, and a bloated human torso—all familiar objects to a viewer. Savage adds that “what is unfamiliar is the way in which they are combined—you have to think more metaphorically.”

See Exhibit continued on page 12

Write for Arts because Rachel needs friends. 2148.

WHEN THE CHECK FROM DAD IS A LITTLE

When you need to stretch your food budget, let Papa John’s pizza help out. Use the coupons below to enjoy some great pizza values. PLUS, you always get Papa John’s special garlic sauce and pepperoncinis at no extra cost! So if the only thing you can find in your pocket is lint, it’s definitely time to get Papa John’s on the phone.

Lake Norman
Norman Square Shopping Center
896-7272

Six Pack of Coca-Cola classic for $3.99 with any pizza purchase.

“Party Pak”
Four 14" Pizzas
One Topping