THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1994

Police spot checks for alcohol policy violations only a rumor

By Mary Laura Moretz

Amidst rumors of I.D. spot-checks on Patterson Court, Director of Public Safety Ray Thrower says, “Nothing has changed since last year” in the alcohol policy as far as the police are concerned.

Recently, RLO’s wishes to tighten enforcement of the rules have worried students and caused some speculation over how the police will handle drinking on Patterson Court.

Thrower says the public safety workers have always had the right to check the I.D.’s of party-goers if they suspected underage drinking. “We certainly don’t go out saying we’re going to check a certain number of people on any given night,” he says.

Many students feel uneasy about the enforcement of the alcohol policy because RA’s can no longer issue warnings before giving citations to students in residence halls.

Sophomore Susie Spressert says, “I didn’t want to be an RA when I found out how strict the new rules were.” She feels the alcohol policy already makes it “hard for people to drink on the court.”

SGA representative Laura Jefferson says the alcohol policy is a case of constant interest for the SGA because “it’s always a concern of the student body.”

Martin F residents patient with problems

Quirks continued from page 1

problem by yanking too hard when the door won’t open.

Sandra Guzman was temporarily locked inside her bathroom due to a faulty door handle. Guzman says, “They have not been very thorough—in our apartment at least. Since the bathroom incident, we have been without a doorknob for a week and a half after we had been told we were first on the list.”

Fire and Rain

When asked to explain the water damage resulting from the air conditioner, Pfahl blames faulty construction, but also cites open windows as part of the problem.

Flashing lights and a painfully loud, high-pitched fire alarm provide a familiar scenario to Martin Court F residents. Engineers should correct the fire alarm problem by next week.

Cable

RLO is still working on the cable installation. Some residents feel that cable is the most important issue for the new apartments.

Frank Ingram says, “They are trying to work out a deal with the cable company; but meanwhile, we’re paying for it.” In the other Martin Court buildings, cable is already installed, and residents receive it free with the apartment.

Pfahl attributes the preceding setbacks to time constraints: “We needed three weeks to do what we had only one week to do.” The building was finished on a Friday, and students moved in on Saturday. Pfahl says, “Right now, we are working the bugs out.” She expects all complaints to be resolved by the end of September.

Debbie Young of RLO is pleased with the overall success of the new building: “This has been the best opening of a new residence hall we’ve ever had.”

In 1988, Martin Court apartment buildings D and E were incomplete until Thanksgiving, leaving numerous seniors stranded in temporary housing. As for the “bugs,” Young says “the students are testing out the equipment we didn’t have time to test.”

Most residents are pleased with the new building, despite the difficulties. Alison Woodward admits, “With any new building, there are bound to be problems. However, Martin F is a beautiful building and the school, maintenance, etc. are doing their best.”

Freshman activities promote class unity

What Fun from page 2

Charlotte ice skating rink. New friends appeared to have a great time on the ice, whether they skated professionally or spent most of the time falling down and sliding into each other.

Most freshmen contend that although it’s frustrating to ignore what is clearly the social center of campus—Patterson Court—it is important to get to know the faces of your own class.

Freshman Buster Burk explains, “If you’re not careful, you might go up to some senior and introduce yourself, and wind up feeling like an idiot.”

Pizza at Regular Price and Get a Free Topping!

Phone: (704) 892-4570

ACCELERATED LEARNING PROGRAM

September 19
Monday Evening: 7:00-8:15 p.m.
CHAMBERS 125

THE ESSAY TEST AS GENRE
"Formulating and Writing Better Answers on Essay Tests"

All students are invited to attend
Speaker: Professor Gail Gibson
Co-Sponsors: FIJI, Office of the Dean of Faculty, Office of the Dean of Students

General Announcements

NEEDED: WOMEN'S BASKETBALL MANAGERS. If you like basketball and enjoy travelling, please contact Coach Roos in the women's basketball office at -2087 or -2819.

Anyone interested in joining the Davidson Chess Club is invited to come to a meeting Wednesday, September 14, at 5 p.m. in the second floor Conference Room in the Union. Pizza and refreshments will be provided.

COMING SOON...
National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week is October 2-6, 1994. If you or your group can sponsor an activity or event, or if you would like to participate, please call Art Flagg at the Student Counseling Center at -2451.

RESERVE OFFICER'S TRAINING CORPS

GET MONEY FROM YOUR Uncle Sam. Every year Army ROTC awards scholarships to hundreds of talented students. If you qualify, these merit-based scholarships can help you pay tuition and educational fees. They even pay a flat rate for textbooks and supplies.

You can also receive an allowance of up to $1000 each school year the scholarship is in effect. Find out today if you qualify.

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE.

Students interested in applying for an Army scholarship may pick up an application at any time in the Department of Military Studies, Belk Hall. Completed applications must be received by 15 December 1994. Army scholarships pay in excess of $12,000 annually at Davidson College.