THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26

Still Whistling Dixie
Geoff Graham

If you missed the “5th Annual Country Homecoming” in Union Grove two weeks ago, you missed the chance of a lifetime. Suzy Bogguss, Hal Ketchum, the Mavericks, and a few others all took to the stage for a day-long affair affectionately dubbed “the Country Horde.” Though all the artists put on great shows, most especially Suzy, one dark horse stood out among the rest. David Ball, despite his recent appearance in the limelight, overshadowed the veteran stars with his energy, unique sound, and disarming humility on stage.

Though the new face has been rocking honky-tonks for over a decade, only recently has he made a name for himself with his first single, “Thinkin’ Problem,” off an album of the same name. Ball represents only one of many new artists steering clear of the pop-infested country of the eighties and early nineties. His sound is pure country, and he carries himself with class. No permed hair, no “trashy” lyrics—just honest rockabilly with an honest sound. Ball sings from the heart with his own unique voice, a kind of nasal George Jones wail.

Though some of the songs miss the mark (“Down at the Bottom of a Broken Heart” is as trite as it sounds, and “Honky Tonk Healin’” comes off as fast-paced annoyance), most of the album strikes a pleasing chord. Admittedly, I hated “Thinkin’ Problem” the first time I heard it, but the song grew on me—and yes, I confess, I now have a thinkin’ problem. The ballads on the album, however, set Ball far ahead of the average newcomer. “What Do You Want with His Love” reminds us that no woman knows for sure what she really wants. All we can do is wonder. “When the Thought of You Catches Up with Me” is one of the best songs I’ve heard this year. Ball beautifully voices the difficulty of letting go of a love long gone. If experience is this songwriter’s inspiration, I pity him.

Ball wrote or co-wrote nine of the ten songs on the album, betraying an affinity for basic chord progressions and rockabilly rhythms. His producers had the good sense to preserve his raw acoustic sound, keeping the arrangements simple. The total effect is an impressive debut reminiscent of decades-old country. If you buy Thinkin’ Problem, however, be prepared. There ain’t one damned song on the album that'll make you happy. Sadness runs rampant, so don’t listen alone. Be sure you buy a few cold ones to keep you company.

After overcoming culture shock, Willard learned “more in a semester” than in years at Davidson.

Samoa continued from page 10

Years ago, international phone lines were not even available to the common people of the country. Western Samoa is located in the Pacific Ocean between Hawaii and New Zealand. It is part of an archipelago, but the two main islands are Upolu and Sava’i. The latter is a new island, formed from a volcanic eruption about 80 years ago. Sava’i is the largest island in the archipelago of Samoa. Willard lived in Apia, a city on the island Upolu, but he spent a great deal of time enjoying the flourishing, natural surroundings of Sava’i.

There are many attractions on the Samoan islands, so it is no wonder that tourism was hard to resist. One of Willard’s favorite pastimes was snorkeling in Palolo Deep, a coral reef. Palolo Deep has a 50-foot wall of coral that he loved to explore with the fish. The city features some night clubs, but there are also some spectacular waterfalls located all over the islands. Willard liked to travel from island to island by ferry. One island has poet Robert Louis Stevenson’s homestead and tomb “enshrined” and preserved, showing the great respect the Samoan people have for foreigners.

Willard says he was always treated very well by the natives of the islands. The people of Samoa are mostly Christian and very religious. “A lot of the moral codes are built around Christianity,” Willard says. Because he was seen as an outsider, however, he was forced to “figure things out for himself.” That is, he discovered that the penalties for certain offenses are much stricter there than in the United States. Willard gives the example that one would be punished for throwing stones in Western Samoa as one would be punished for shooting someone in America. He also professes that “men are allowed to roam a little bit more” than women in the Samoan culture.

Other things that surprised Willard were the posters advertising Karate Kid and New Kids On the Block, as well as the “bad reggae” that would be blasted on the overcrowded buses. The strict hierarchical society stems from the family structure of its people. Willard spent his first two and a half weeks in Western Samoa with a host family. There were 15 members of the extended family living in the same house. Because his host family was wealthy, Willard enjoyed touring their plantation of papayas, passion fruit, and mangoes. Fishing, however, is one of the main industries of the islands.It was not, perhaps, until Williard went to New Zealand and Australia directly after his experiences that he realized what a different culture he had been absorbed by. Western Samoa is considered to be a third world nation, but it is provided with remittances. Money is sent back by emigrants to their homeland, which provides twice as much money to the economy than the country produces by itself. “Going abroad to such a non-western country forced me to reconsider all that I had assumed to be true about life,” says Williard. “It was a struggle for me. Still, I was surprised I had such a hard time [at first]. I discovered a lot about myself, [while] dealing with some facets of western culture. I often felt very alone.” Williard expresses the counter shock he experienced once he was returned to western life. Sliding doors and well-paved roads, modern cars, and malls were representative of the antithesis of the civilization he had been so intimate with during his study abroad.

Now that he has returned to the United States, Williard says that he is “not going to worry about making money” so much anymore. When he thinks back now on his experiences, he says under his breath with a sigh, “Gosh, that was such a crazy time.” “Right now, it seems so far away. Lately I try to feel more comfortable in the US, rather than remember Samoa. Being removed from my natural surroundings forced me to look inside myself,” he says. Williard’s travel abroad truly was a time of self-discovery and learning. He expressed his tremendous gratitude to Dean Rusk, which provided some funding for his adventures.

Cooking for yourself is easier than you think
Rachel provides another Greek recipe
By Rachel Newcomb

Approximately one fourth of Davidson students now live in apartments or off-campus houses with kitchens. Although many of you may eat in the Commons or fraternities and eating houses, cooking for yourself once in a while can be an extremely rewarding experience. In the grocery stores these days there can be a temptation to head straight for the shiny frozen-food section, where anything from Weight Watcher’s Lasagna to Sara Lee’s pound cake might tempt your palate. So much of our culture is instant, and Americans are always in a hurry. As Davidson students, we don’t exactly have a lot of time on our hands either. But there are some very simple things you can make from scratch in your kitchen that don’t take too much time and are much better than the instant microwaveable dinners at the store.

Growing up in a family where both parents belonged to gourmet clubs and subscribed to several cooking magazines led me to an obsession with good food. As soon as I was tall enough to look over the stove I wanted to learn to cook. I have included a few favorite simple recipes that you can make with access to a kitchen, a few dollars, and a couple of pots and pans. The recipe for Greek Feta Chicken came from Bon Appetit magazine and is by far my favorite way to cook chicken breasts. With this you might want to try herbed couscous with vegetables, a delicately subtle side dish that borrows from Moroccan culture. And for vegetarians, next week I will include a simple pasta recipe whose tomato flavors don’t come from a jar. So the next time you have an hour to kill and want to create something that is truly delicious, try the following recipe.

Greek Feta Chicken (serves 4)
1 cup plain low-fat yogurt
1 large garlic clove, minced
1/2 tsp. dried oregano, crumbled
1/4 tsp. pepper
4 boneless skinless chicken breasts
1/3 cup crumbled feta cheese
Fresh parsley sprigs

Be sure when cooking chicken that you thoroughly clean any surfaces the chicken has touched, or you could get salmonella and die. Whisk first 4 ingredients in medium bowl. Add chicken and turn to coat. Cover and let stand for 30 minutes. Preheat broiler. Line a broiler pan with foil. Remove chicken from marinade and place smooth side down on prepared pan, saving some marinade in the bowl. Broil chicken 6 minutes. Turn chicken over. Brush with reserved marinade. Sprinkle with feta cheese and broil until chicken is cooked through, about 4 minutes. Garnish with parsley and serve.

Photo courtesy of David Williard
David Willard and his companion play with Samoan children.

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Close
5 “-— Johnny!"
10 God of love
15 Top-notch
16 Baby's call
17 Self-centered
18 Forty-— (gold rush man)
19 Edge
20 Drawn out
22 Take out
24 Unruly crowd
25 Viscous stuff
27 Generous
31 Give life to
35 Good luck sign
38 Memorable —
39 Throws
41 Young boy
42 Indian drum
44 Grow older
45 Attendant
48 Mature
49 Written

ANSWERS
BEOO BRE OBS OOD BOOOD HOO BHO DUH OOO BODRDEOD OOOOH BED BOO