12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

QUICKSAND
Attempting to find a shortcut between NBF and Baker, Max Hyde ran into a pool of quickmud. Swallowed up to his knees, Hyde had to be rescued by fellow senior adventurer Alex Crumbley.

ARTS & LIVING
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1994

Photos courtesy of Geoff Gehman

Faculty exhibit abounds with originality

Exhibit continued from pg. 11

Much of Savage’s work has incorporated upholstery into the sculptural forms, a unique medium in sculpture. Savage explained that he became interested in upholstery after an incident in his apartment a couple of years ago. Confined to his apartment for some time due to an injury, he decided to reupholster his sofa and discovered he could use the fabric as a medium for his art.

Entering the final room of the show, the observer finds Russ Warren’s bright, vibrant oil paintings that create a serene setting. Warren finds that “Cort’s work is demanding as far as space—it’s sort of boisterous, whereas I see mine as quiet and contemplative.” Warren’s exhibit focuses on a horse motif, as he explains that horses are a big part of his life. He found that it is “hard taking cliché images and working with them,” but he enjoyed the struggle and the challenge of “reinventing the wheel.” Warren expressed that anything that has become generic in art, such as a bull or even a landscape, poses difficulty. Warren believes “the tradition can become overwhelming—I want to get to the personal nature, a variation on a theme.”

The division of the show has a powerful effect, as each room has a different mood and message. Warren notes “to make separate statements was important; the diversity might be nice in a different show, but in mixing up the artwork the personal statement gets watered down.” With each artist’s work in separate rooms, the personal statements are concentrated and presented clearly to the observer.

The Davidson art department encourages students, staff, faculty, and the community to take a stroll through the galleries in the Visual Art Center. The gallery hours are from 10 to 4 during the week and from 2 to 5 on the weekend.

THE SCENE

Monday
Patrick Donley Exhibition. “Cyclical Nature.” Edward M. Smith Gallery. 10-4 weekdays, 2-5 weekends.
Annual Faculty Exhibition. William H. Van Every, Jr. Gallery. 10-4 weekdays, 2-5 weekends.
COSEN Information Meeting 6:00 p.m. - 900 Room.
Dr. James A. Forbes, Jr. 7:30 p.m. Staley Lecturer. Forbes is the first African-American to head one of the nation’s largest multicultural congregations at the Riverside Church in NYC. Love Auditorium.

Tuesday
Coffeehouse. 8:30-11 a.m. 900 Room.
Dr. James A. Forbes, Jr. 7:30 p.m. - Love Auditorium.
F.L.A.G. meeting 10:00 p.m. - Wilson Room.
21-year-old night-10:30 p.m. - 900 Room.

Wednesday
Chapel Committee meeting 5:00 p.m. - Morrison Room.
Soccer - Davidson vs. UCLA 7:00 p.m. - Richardson Field.
Movie: “The Cook, The Thief, His Wife, and Her Lover.” 9:30 p.m. - 900 Room.

Thursday
Bill Winslade 7:00 p.m. - Medical Humanities Lecture. “Ethics Consultation: From the Ivory Tower to the Operating Room.” Chambers Gallery.
Edward Brynn 7:30 p.m. - Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs. “Africa Today.” Sponsored by Dean Rusk Program. 900 Room.
Freshman Scholarship Recital8:00 p.m. - Class of 1998 winners of the Donald Plott Music Scholarship and James C. Harper Musical Scholarship. Hodson Hall.

Mixer and AIDS Education
9:00 p.m. - Demonstration of spread of AIDS with discussion. Georgia Ringle will attend. Jumping Java Cafe

9:30 p.m. - Union Outpost. Coffee, snacks, music, fun.

Saturday
East Carolina Vocal Quartet. 8:00 p.m. Performing musical selections from operas, operettas, and Broadway shows. Hodson Hall.

Sunday
Movie - Mrs. Doubtfire. 8:00 p.m. 900 Room.

'94-95 Artist Series features jazz and modern dance
By Tammy Tiska

The 1994-95 Artists Series promises to be one of the most diverse and exciting yet. The season kicks off on October 15 with a performance by the modern dance group ODC/San Francisco. In its 24th year, the company of ten dancers has won national acclaim and rave reviews from such discriminating critics as The New York Times.

On December 3, Davidson will welcome renowned jazz musician Terrence Blanchard. He has a new album out from Columbia Records entitled “The Billie Holiday Songbook,” which is mostly instrumental, although it features vocals by Jeanie Bryson (daughter of Dizzy Gillespie). Blanchard also composed the score for Spike Lee’s film Crooklyn and Matty Rich’s latest movie The Inkwell.

Spring semester will see the production of Oleanna on February 21. Written by David Mamet, Pulitzer Prize-winning author of Glengarry Glen Ross and Hoffa, Oleanna explores the current debate on college campuses between advocates of diversity and defenders of free speech.

The Artists Series closes on March 16 when Stephen Kayne and the British Black Actors present Macbeth. The play manages to stay true to the original text, but it is set in contemporary Africa. It has been praised for its originality, especially the combination of European and traditional African costumes.

Davidson is fortunate to host such a diverse and accomplished series of artists. Tickets for all events are $5 at the door, and season tickets are $10. They can be purchased at the Union Ticket Office, Monday - Friday, 2 to 5 p.m.

BAKLAVA AND OLIVE OIL, Photo by Brooke McRae
Rachel reports on Charlotte’s Greek Festival next week.

RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS
For more information: Call 892-2165 or stop by the Department of Military Studies in Belk Hall.

Drive. Intensity. Those aren't words you're likely to see in many course requirements. Then again, Army ROTC is unlike any other elective. It's hands-on excitement. ROTC will challenge you mentally and physically through intense leadership training that builds character, self-confidence, and decision-making skills. Again, words other courses use. But they're the credits you need to succeed in life. ROTC is open to freshmen and sophomores without obligation and requires about 4 hours per week. Register this term for Army ROTC:

MIL 101-A, MIL 101-B, MIL 101-C, MIL 101-D, MIL 101 - The U.S. Army Today "Introduction to Leadership"
**4 Sections Offered**
0930 - 1020 Wednesday
1300 - 1350 Wednesday
1300 - 1350 Thursday
1430 - 1520 Thursday

2 BN Records
HOMETOWN HOMERUN!

New Stuff September 13
- Samples
- They Might Be Giants
- Peter Gabriel
- Eric Clapton

100s of New and Used CDs at Discount Prices?!
Lakeshore Market Place: 896-7882