foster inclusiveness at Davidson, spo’

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Photo by Tony Rapier

The faculty and staff Harmony Committee, a group organized to foster inclusiveness at Davidson, sponsored a prejudice reduction workshop for
students last Friday evening.

NEWS
MONDAY, MARCH 7, 1994

Workshop focuses on prejudices
By Jay Jennings

Last Friday, the National Coalition Building Institute held a one-day prejudice reduction workshop to teach students, staff, and faculty new
methods to counter discrimination, to become more sensitive to prejudice problems, and how to run future workshops. The workshop, held
in the Chambers Multi-Purpose Room, lasted seven hours. Thirty students, staff, and faculty signed up for the workshop in all;
students composed half of the group.

The NCBI is a national organization based in Washington that has given the same workshop on campuses all over the
country. Alumna Bonnie Wright ran the workshop along with Collin Rustin, Jr. They both work out of the NCBI Raleigh
branch. Richard Terry hopes that this workshop will lead to a “core group being trained, so they can deal with
prejudice issues on campus.”

More classrooms open for studying
Chambers invites nocturnal students to the quiet asylum of its upper floors
By Mary Clare Jalonick

Many students often have a hard time finding a quiet place to study. Some seek a quiet room within the
halls of the Chambers building but are disappointed when they find that many classrooms are inaccessible. This problem has recently
been rectified; now many more classrooms will be open to students at all hours of the day.

Junior class president B.J. Rudell and Freshman SGA representative Josh Gaffga went to registrar Polly Griffin to investigate the problem.
She originally agreed to open up three more rooms, but then decided to open all but nine classrooms. Rooms 212,
228, 301, 304, 309, 312, 325, 337, and Perkins Auditorium will not be open for studying. All other rooms will
be open 24 hours a day, seven days a week.

“It seemed that having only six rooms open was unfair,” says Rudell. “This is a big step.” Rudell says the
rooms were previously closed due to students leaving them in disorder. There was also some worry about safety within Chambers
with so many people going in and out in the middle of the night.

Freshman Michelle McDonald studies in Chambers, and has found the new policy beneficial. “It’s hard to find a room sometimes
because you want to be alone. This should improve things a lot,” she said.

Tolbert reflects on feminism & Christianity
Bible continued from page 2

Tolbert insinuates that these “authorities” intended to do other than reveal the word of God. Tolbert also undermines the modern
“personal power of the pastor” whose congregation believes he has the ability “to read the Bible’s magic correctly.” According to
Tolbert, such power enables the Church to dictate and delegate judgment within the community.

Pastor James Howell of Davidson United Methodist Church expressed his belief that such pastoral power can deliver useful and comforting
effects to people in need of the unconditional love and acceptance found in Christianity. Tolbert replied that part of mature
Christianity is recognizing that the pastor is not God. In her experience, pastoral power has led to abuses of authority
over the oppressed and minorities (e.g., the pastoral advice, "wives submit to your husbands”).

Tolbert clearly and readily admitted that she has her own political and social agenda for which she seeks justification in
the Bible: the liberation of the oppressed. This agenda was evident in all of her interpretations.and arguments against the status
quo Church authority. Tolbert constantly questions, “Quibono?” (for whose good is it?). Until recently the answer has always been “for
the betterment of the politically and socially powerful.” This answer falls short of satisfying Tolbert’s quest for true Biblical authority.
She refuses to put her understanding of the Word of God in the hands of priestly politics and challenges us
to do the same. Mrs. Tolbert is the author of Perspectives on the Parables, Sowing the Gospel: Mark’s World in
Literary and Historical Perspective and the editor of The Bible and Feminist Hermeneutics.

Campus problems when they arise.” The Harmony Committee paid for the workshop with money granted to the school by the
Philip Morris Company designated for promoting diversity. The Harmony Committee was created two years ago after several incidences of racist
acts occurred on campus. After some campus leaders began meeting to talk about the problems, the committee officially formed. Assistant
Dean of Students John Eaves, in charge of the Morris grant along with the Harmony Committee, thought the workshop was
an excellent way to use some of the money. Reaction to the workshop was positive. Although the workshop was lengthy,
junior John Ford said, “It did not feel like seven hours,” and the experience gave him new ways to think
about prejudice. Professor Don Kimmel said the workshop allowed the participants to “investigate characteristics of their individual groups and find
out of which things they should be proud of and not proud of.” The Harmony Committee did not expect miracles
with the workshop but hoped that the people attending would have a greater understanding of how to deal with prejudice.
The turnout was a bit smaller than the committee had hoped; the lower numbers were attributed to the Southern Conference
Tournament game on the same night. Before the workshop, Terry said that if it was successful, they would try to
have the workshop in an extended form next fall.

DOMINO'S PIZZA
Call Us! 896-8007
Shops on the Green - Cornelius
HOURS: 4pm-12 midnight

NEW ADDITIONS: Twisty Bread, Salad, Cheddar Cheese
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable.
Drivers carry less than $20.00. Value 1/20¢. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. ©1993 Domino's Pizza Inc.

MEAL DEAL
$6.99
LARGE CHEESE
Additional toppings 50¢
MEDIUM - All the Coke you can drink only 35¢ ea.
No coupon necessary
Order 10+ Cokes
2 QT. PKG. OF KOOL-AID
EXPIRES 3-14-94

MONDAY ONLY
MONDAY SPECIAL
LARGE PIZZA FOR THE PRICE OF A MEDIUM
EXPIRES 3-14-94

2 MEDIUM PIZZAS FOR THE PRICE OF A LARGE
EXPIRES 3-14-94

DEEP DISH
$8.99
NEW DEEP DISH FOR A MEDIUM WITH 2-TOPPINGS
EXPIRES 3-14-94

FREE TWISTY BREAD WITH PURCHASE OF ANY MEDIUM PIZZA WITH TWO OR MORE TOPPINGS OR ANY LARGE PIZZA
EXPIRES 3-14-94

THURSDAY ONLY
$11.99
LARGE 2 TOPPING PIZZA PLUS 2 LITER COKE
EXPIRES 3-14-94

2 FOR 1
$14.99
2 LARGE 1 TOPPING PIZZAS
Additional toppings $1.00
EXPIRES 3-14-94
