80 YEARS OLD The Davidsonian 1944-1953 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994

The Cardboard Village & Enrollment
By Leigh Rawdon

For only $1.50 a year, subscribers to The Davidsonian from 1944 to 1953 kept up with a campus that not only looked different than it does now, but also thought and acted differently. Jackson Court was fraternity court. Johnston Gym was only an architect’s plan. Enrollment dropped below 300. And, of course, all of the students were men.

Sandwiched between two wars, the decade between 1945 and 1953 witnessed a record low enrollment. Of the 6400 living alumni in the middle of 1945, 2380 were in the service; 130 of them died. After the second world war, students returned to an nearly-empty campus. The only students during the war were those physically unable to serve in the military or those devoted to a career in ministry. In addition, men training for the military were on campus until the War Department withdrew the last of their trainees in December of 1944. Finally, “Davidson once again became a civilian college,” reads The Davidsonian of July 12, 1945.

The May 24, 1945 editorial celebrated the end of the war: “Davidson is already feeling the effects of the victory in Europe. Registration is increasing rapidly and hopes that post-war improvements will soon start seem evident ... As we have been told before, we are seeing history being made, and the opportunities which it gives us must not be ignored. Davidson joins the world in thanking God for the victory He has given us and in petitioning Him to give us strength for the tasks of the days which lie ahead.”

Veterans of the war brought their wives and children back to Davidson to live in the “Cardboard Village,” a housing complex erected in 1946 by the Federal Public Housing Authority. Families laughed about the thin walls and community-centered nature of the village. Apparently, there were very few secrets.

Just as soon as Davidson calmed down after the world war, drafts began again for the Korean War. Once again, Davidson students found themselves in the service. But the differences between the Davidson of yesterday and that of today extend well beyond appearances or the circumstances of the war. On first reading, however, the 30-year-old weekly newspaper reveals many of the hot issues of today: alcohol policies, the relationship of the college with the church, dating at Davidson, and hazing, to name a few. The similarities end there. The issues fostered a student opinion that seems to be in direct opposition to the positions students hold today.

Alcohol Policies
On February 21, 1947, Jim Love, the editor of The Davidsonian, wrote, “Relatively speaking, Davidson is still one of the last monuments to dances and social functions when people have a better time than at other schools and do so without the aid of intoxicants. Anyone who says it can’t be done is wrong.” He continues to explain the ills of drinking, saying, “Where is all of this [drinking] leading? Well, it cracked the mighty Roman Empire, and it will just as certainly crack us if we as individuals do not do something about it.”

Dating at Davidson
Despite being an all-male school, Davidson students still managed to meet and date women. Throughout the post-war decade, Davidson had mixers with Queens, Converse, and Salem. The Faculty Social Committee even voted to allow Midwinters dates to sleep in Duke Dorm during the 1945 festivity. Apparently, housing had always posed such a problem that the faculty required that beginning in 1945, every dance be held on campus with the dates staying in a dorm. Until then, dances were not permitted on campus.

Besides Midwinters, the Spring Frolics, fall formals, and homecoming were the social weekends that covered the front page of The Davidsonian for weeks before and after the event occurred. Other big days included “Q-D” day, when Queens and Davidson students socialized, or other days that hosted women’s colleges. In February...of 1948, a front page headline read, “Salem Beauties Schedule Party.” The writer encouraged his friends to sign up in the lobby of Chambers immediately “in order that they might have dates.”

Religion
There are two glaring signs of the difference in attitudes toward religion between the Davidson of today and that of yesterday. First, every editor in this decade felt the need to write at least one, if not five, editorials about the proper behavior during chapel assemblies. The second sign appears in the following list of headlines found in the issue of The Davidsonian printed February 21, 1947: “Westminster Group Offers Discussions Every Sunday Night,” “Story’s Class Proves Active, Gives Bibles,” “Duke Fellowship Adds Ideas: Davidson Christian Fellowship Gains New Leaders,” “Your Hall Prayer Meetings Can Prove to Be of Value,” and lastly, “What if Jesus asked you for advice?”

Hazing
One of the traditions of Davidson, a tradition that many students felt needed defending and encouraging, involved the deference of freshmen to the upperclassmen. The issue of The Davidsonian printed September 9, 1949 warned the new students of their appropriate position with a front page headline: “So You Think You Are a Davidson Man; You Are Only Frederick the Freshman.” The upperclass focused on using any means to make the freshmen behave according to the regulations. If not, the Court of Control, whose presiding judge was elected each year and featured on the front page of the newspaper, had the duties “to hear, investigate, and deal with the charges of upperclassmen against freshmen of improper conduct, violating freshmen regulations, or breaking college traditions.” The Court of Control punished one freshman for walking on the grass with copying the regulations 25 times. On October 18, 1946, the headline read, “Obnoxious Freshmen Sentenced at Court.”

FROM THE EDITOR
MELDRUM B. WINSTEAD, JR., 1945-46

Post World War Davidson
World War II was in full swing when I arrived at Davidson in June, 1943. Enrollment at the College was small, having dropped to fewer than one hundred students at one time. Also, there were military cadets on campus then, and they were housed in East and West Dorms. We had little interaction except for one confrontation that was amicably resolved. With lights out at 10 p.m. they arose early and would count off and sing loudly as they marched to breakfast, waking the rest of us living in Rumple, Watts, and Georgia. Once, I repeatedly played reveille on my cornet at midnight in front of their dorm. This drew profane cries from their windows and resulted in a meeting with the commanding officer, after which the cadets marched to breakfast in silence and I put my horn away at night.

Chemistry was my major and after graduating in May, 1946, I accepted a position as Instructor at Davidson. This postponed for one year my appointment to a graduate assistantship at the University of North Carolina. Many veterans returned to Davidson in ’45-’46, and one was elected president of the student body. He informed me that student government by-laws called for the election of an editor of The Davidsonian, instead of being appointed which had happened to me. Twice weekly, time was allotted at the required daily chapel services to conduct business. At one such meeting, I was nominated and elected without opposition as the first post-World War II Editor-in-Chief of The Davidsonian. After receiving my doctorate degree in 1952, I was appointed Assistant Professor of Chemistry at Bucknell University where, presently, I am Professor Emeritus and live in Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.

Associated Collegiate Press
SECOND SEMESTER 1961-1962

The Davidsonian
In recognition of its merit, is awarded All-American Honor Rating in the Sixty-seventh National Newspaper Critical Service of the Associated Collegiate Press at the University of Minnesota, School of Journalism, this Twentieth day of September, 1962.

Only Turkeys Want to Miss Thanksgiving and Christmas! BOOK EARLY
VILLAGE TRAVEL
"The World Begins Here”
Post Office Box 879
109 North Main Street
Davidson, North Carolina 28036
704/892-9020
1-800-284-5524