THE DAVIDSONIAN

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994

Rugby team prepares for fall season during summer

By Warren Buford

Several members of the men’s rugby team started training for the tough fall season during their summer breaks.

Many of the players had very busy schedules and had to choose between focusing on either the physical or mental
aspects of the sport.

Davidson rugby team president and senior Mike Kessler, along with Braulio Lopez—both of whom worked at the Physical Plant to
get into shape—kept in touch with Charlotte’s local rugby team, trying to learn good strategies for the fall.

Rugby guru and senior co-coach Tom Shelbourne toured the country with a companion, learning about other rugby philosophies from around
the country. Team captain and last year’s point leader Simon Priestly and sophomore Warren Buford traveled to Scotland and Kenya,
respectively, to “ruck and mull” with people in rugby’s heartland.

Sophomore Sean Harvey played rugby in a league over the summer. Treasurer Chris Smith stayed at Davidson, explaining the sport
to members of the Love of Learning staff. Social chair Thayer Long played for the Philadelphia Phantoms over the break.

The team will get the first look at the rewards of their work Tuesday when it begins practice on the
IMAC fields. “Without doubt, the rugby team’s work in the off-season will certainly be apparent in practice,” said match-secretary Jeremy
Potter. The team is looking for students who would like to play, and questions should be directed to Potter at
896-6318.

Davidson is looking forward to an exciting fall season, after capturing the regional championship in the spring. The tough schedule
includes games against UNC on Homecoming weekend, Western Carolina parents weekend, Duke, and Appalachian State.

But considering their summer of work, the team looks ready to work hard.

Women's soccer shows much promise in loss against Crimson Tide

By Rich Glenn

The Women Wildcats showed a great deal of potential in Sunday’s home opener against Alabama. The young Crimson Tide squad
came away with a 2-0 victory. However, the score is misleading, as Davidson dominated the game.

The first half was played almost entirely in the Alabama end of the field, but the ‘Cats couldn’t take advantage
of the opportunities that they created. Several long-range shots by Ellen Sprinkle ‘95 and Heather Wineberg ‘96 were smothered by
the Crimson keeper.

Claudia Lombard ‘96 also created a few brilliant goal-scoring chances, but she, too, came up empty-handed.

Remarked freshman Kelly Schmidt, “We need to work on finishing.” Goalkeeper Liz Schaper had similar comments: “We played well defensively,
but we couldn’t capitalize on our chances inside the 18-yard box.”

The first Crimson goal was scored on a long-range shot that was out of the reach of Schaper. Even after
the goal, the Wildcats dominated play.

The same type of play characterized the second half, in which the Wildcats' biggest chance came in the form of
a penalty kick which was not converted.

The Crimson Tide added an insurance goal on a breakaway in the second half. Schaper managed to save the initial
shot but was helpless on the rebound which was lofted into the goal.

The Wildcats are looking forward to Wednesday’s home game with another first-year program, UNC-Charlotte. If the team can start to
capitalize on the offensive end and continues to play well defensively, it could be an exciting season for the Davidson
College women’s soccer team.

RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING CORPS

ONE COURSE THAT COULD CHANGE THE COURSE OF YOUR LIFE.

Look forward to the future with confidence. Enroll in Army ROTC, an elective that’s different from any other college course.
ROTC offers hands-on leadership training. Training that gives you experience and helps build self-confidence, character, and management skills. All the
credentials employers look for. ROTC is open to freshmen and sophomores without obligation and requires about 4 hours per week.
It will put your life on a whole new course.

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE.
**24 Sections Offered**
MIL 101-A, Wednesday 0930 - 1020
MIL 101-B, Wednesday 1300 - 1350
MIL 101-C, Thursday 1300 - 1350
MIL 101-D, Thursday 1430 - 1520

For more information: Call 892-2165 or stop by the Department of Military Studies in Belk Hall

COOL BREEZE CYCLERY

170 N. Main St.
Mooresville
704-663-8812

1811 East Broad St.
Statesville
704-878-9683

1475 Highland Ave.
Hickory
704-324-9350

Photo by Kristina Nevius
Claudia Lombard breaks away from the Alabama defense as she attempts to score a goal.

2 Great "People Persons” Needed
Fascinating Job
Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, or Saturday
4-8 Hours Per Week
Good Wages
Telephone Dennis Rice at 896-6404 or See Dennis at the Union Outpost Wednesday - Saturday, 10pm - 3am

Tuesday at 4:00 pm in Belk Arena there will be a MEETING FOR ANYONE INTERESTED IN TRYING OUT FOR THE
MEN’S BASKETBALL TEAM.

Anyone who cannot attend must call the basketball office at x2369 prior to the meeting.

Come Dressed to Play!

PART TIME NANNY
Approx. 15 - 20 hours per week. Flexible hours and days. Mooresville/Davidson area. Must have your own transportation. Pay negotiable.
Possible room and board opportunity. 4 children ages 9, 6, 3, and infant. Personal interview required. Call Cindy at 664-9788.

SPRING BREAK '95- SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!!!

Student Travel Services is now hiring campus representatives. Lowest rates to Jamaica, Cancun, Daytona and Panama City Beach.

Call 1-800-648-4849.
