RTS & LIVING _ TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994

Music Review

Woodstock, the Eagles make for a summer of remakes

By Tom Bavis

Musically, the summer of 1994 may stick in people's memories as one of the most important, alongside such greats as the summer of 1967 and — dare I mention it so soon — 1969. Much happened in all realms of popular music as we experience it. Through our presence at concerts, purchases at stores, turns of the radio dial, and guilty minutes in front of MTV, we witnessed the rise of new groups, the resuscitation of old ones, and endless comparisons between the summer of Woodstock '69 and Woodstock '94.

The Rolling Stones, Pink Floyd, Traffic, and the Eagles jumped upon the summer bandwagon this summer after years of seeming inactivity. The Eagles deserved much of the criticism hurled their way for gouging ticket buyers. Among their convincing justifications was Glenn Frey's claim that they did not charge as much as Barbra Streisand — logic one should expect from a singer who was last seen pumping iron on Holiday Fitness Center ads.

Old-age jokes about the now Bill Wyman-less Stones came harder than ever with the Nationsbank-sponsored "Voodoo Lounge Tour." Probably the best jokes thrown their middle-aged way appeared on David Letterman's "Top Ten Things Overheard at the Rolling Stones Opening Show at RFK Stadium," which included, "Start me up; no, really, this is not part of the song."

As those groups counted their increasing millions, one of the best Lollapalooza tours to date screeched and blasted its way across the nation. Headliners Beastie Boys and Smashing Pumpkins deserved every cent they earned promoting their excellent albums. The medium-sized Breeders and Green Day also put in stellar sets.

All the noise Smashing Pumpkins and company made from the Lollapalooza mainstage, alas, could not compete against the deafening hype surrounding Woodstock '94. At this summer's Woodstock, performers both young and old climbed on stage before about 300,000 ticketholders and freeloaders alike. Sometimes it seemed as though the people who were not actually there, camp-

See '94 continued on page 9

By Rachel Newcomb

Wine has been a part of civilization for thousands of years. Archaeological evidence shows that wine was being made as early as 12,000 years ago. Organized vineyards were found in Mesopotamia around 2000 B.C., and by the time of the Phoenicians, viniculture had spread throughout the Mediterranean. In the Roman era, wine was associated with decadence and magic. During the Middle Ages, the church kept up wine making, and monks bred grapes that eventually evolved into today's grape varieties.

Since 1875, France has led the world in wine commerce, followed by Italy, Spain, Algeria, Portugal, Argentina, Greece, and the United States. Approximately 90% of the United States' wine comes from California. Because grapes can be cultivated in most temperate climates, wine production takes place on almost every continent.

About an hour's drive down I-77 in rural Chester County, South Carolina, one can visit the Cruse Vineyards. A tour of the vineyard can be a fascinating experience if you're curious to see the procedures involved in wine making. Owners Kenneth and Susan Cruse have operated the vineyard since 1987, and they have five acres of plants, mainly two types called vinifera and French hybrid. These grapes are quite different from the table variety and are made exclusively for wine, with a high acidity and sugar content.

The vineyard is set back in the woods down a long, gravel road. During August, the grapes are harvested, and Kenneth Cruse says that it is important that they be processed as soon as possible. An Italian-made machine known as the Stemmer-Crusher separates the juice and pulp from the leaves. Another machine removes 80% of the juice from the pulp, and the remaining pulp is placed in a basket press, which collects the last 20% of the juice.the juice. Cruse Vineyards feeds the remaining pulp to its livestock. Interestingly enough, in Spain and Portugal grapes are still tread upon to extract their juice. Now that the juice has been isolated, it must be analyzed for levels of sugar and pH, total acids, and carboxylic acids. This determines how the juice will be fermented. For six to eight weeks, the juice rests in steel tanks, where it ferments at 56 degrees Fahrenheit. Yeasts present after the juice is pressed release enzymes which change sugars into alcohol and carbon dioxide. The oxygen supply must be regulated or else bacteria could form that would change the alcohol into acetic acid. After fermentation, the wine is then pumped off the sediment several times. Before he bottles it, Cruse chills it at 26 degrees for four to six weeks to remove cream of tartar. The wine is filtered and then placed in sterilized bottles. This entire procedure from harvest to bottling takes two to three years for white wine and three to five years for red. After bottling, the Cruses wait approximately three to six months to release it. The date that appears on wine bottles is the year the fruit is harvested. Mr. Cruse says that this year has been particularly rough for wine making in this area. Deer have gotten into the vineyards and devoured a lot of the fruit, and the rainy summer hurt the grapes, which prefer a dry, sunny climate.

Once purchased, a wine can “turn” easily, and the consumer must take care to prevent this by protecting the wine from extreme temperatures, drafts, and light. Wines should be stored in an area with an even temperature between 45 and 70 degrees. Once opened, be sure to store the wine on its side to prevent the corks from drying out, which can cause oxygen to turn the wine. Before serving a red wine, remove the cork and allow the wine to “breathe” for at least an hour at room temperature. Chill white wines, champagnes, and rosés at about 50 degrees; a lower temperature will kill the flavor. After a tour of the winery, visitors are allowed to sample the wines, which are also available for sale. The Cruse Winery is open to the public from 3:30 p.m. to 6 p.m. on Fridays and from noon until 6 p.m. on Saturdays. It’s about an hour’s drive from Davidson. To go, take the Highway 9 exit off of I-77. Turn right and go a few miles until you see a sign on your right for Cruse Vineyards. Take another right, and follow the signs.

Film Review
Thumbs up for Oliver Stone's Natural Born Killers
By Tammy Tiska

First I saw Platoon. For months afterwards, I had recurring dreams that I was killing people. In his latest effort, Oliver Stone once again draws us, unwillingly, into the almost implausibly violent world of Natural Born Killers. Harrelson and Juliette Lewis are modern-day serial killers who become media celebrities after a three-year killing spree down a western highway. Stone’s use of animation and his grinding music sequences redefine sensory overload, but after the initial disorientation wears off, we realize that we are confronting the very concept of reality. Is it Micky’s nightmarish drug trip, or Mallory’s twisted memories, or something we all just decided on, like the evening news? Stone gives life to the irrational side of the human psyche, suggesting it is perhaps more real than that which we see every day. Micky tells tabloid TV host Wayne Gale (Robert Downey, Jr.), “You wanted reality,” as he guns down prison guards in a blood-splattered room where bodies of suicide victims hang from the pipes.

Loosely based on an original screenplay by Quentin Tarantino (no surprise to Reservoir Dogs fans), Natural Born Killers is obviously a condemnation of the media and... 

See NBK continued on page 9