RTS & LIVING, MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1994

Stress relief yoga style
By Tammy Tiska

The room was warm and dim, and the walls were covered with mirrors. Slow, tinkly music played softly. A few
people were lying on the floor, some speaking in low whispers in the back. An older woman, wearing all white,
walked to the front of the room. Everyone quietly sat on the floor. I made frantic motions to my mother
to slide over and let me have the back corner. I tried to remember exactly how she had coerced me
into coming.

The instructor told us to lie on our towels in a voice that made Bob the TV painter sound like
Grover. She told us to clear our minds and release all our stress in our breathing. Her soothing, rich voice
exhorted us to feel the white light of good energy burning around our bodies, coming deep into our innermost parts
with every breath. I was starting to feel lightheaded. Then she said, “Joyce, what did you bring to class today?”

Suddenly I was wide awake. I didn’t know yoga required class participation. Joyce smoothly replied, “I’m a little worried about
the holidays, and I have some tension in my hips.” Tension in your hips? I glared at my mother. I
hate getting caught unprepared.

“Carol, what did you bring?”

“There is some negativity in my relationship, and I feel tightness up and down my spine.” The class murmured in
sympathy.

“What’s your name?” the instructor pointed at me. I told her, then pretended I didn’t understand the rest of the
question. Long awkward pause. Finally, “What did you bring to class today?” Another awkward pause. “Umm, well, actually, I think
I’m kind of restless,” I blurted out. Even in the half-light of the room, I saw all the heads swivel
around and stare.

“That’s all right,” she consoled, “we'll work on your breathing.” And so began one of the most frustrating hours of
my life. My average frame suddenly ballooned into an uncontrollable monstrosity. I felt like I was six foot five and
weighed 250 lbs. My arms flailed against the wall on one side, my legs kicking my mother on the other
side. The noise of her giggles and my dying cow breaths somehow broke up the meditative atmosphere. The worst moment
came...

See Stress continued on page 13

Out on the Town
Tired of Davidson nightlife? Go to Charlotte.
By Traci Cliett

You and your roommate have just finished watching Melrose Place. It’s Monday night, and you’re recovering from another grueling calculus
test. After watching scenes of next week’s episode, the two of you decide that you can’t face another book or
computer screen tonight. You call every friend you can think of, and after hearing every possible Davidson excuse, you both
realize it is useless to try anymore — no one else wants to go out. There are no parties on
the Court, the Outpost isn’t open, you’re sick of the smoke at Backstreet, and another pizza at Davino’s doesn’t appeal
to you either.

But don’t give up. All you need is a car and a little money. Go to Charlotte. By this point
in the year, many seniors have discovered the nightlife in our neighboring city, but the rest of our student body
should know about it, too. In researching this subject, I found that you can have a fun time in Charlotte
on any night of the week. Here is a quick guide to one fun-filled week of Charlotte nightlife (you might
want to wait until after exams to test out this schedule.)

MONDAY — Start your evening with a trip to Jack Straw’s. They have great food, good prices, and a friendly
atmosphere. After dinner, you can stick around...In the bar to hear the live band play until they get tired. If
you’re a sports fan, kick off the week with Monday Night Football at the Scoreboard or Samson’s Hole, both on
Independence Boulevard. They each have drink specials and huge screen TVs with games and highlights playing non-stop.

TUESDAY — Have dinner at Lupie’s on 7th Avenue. It’s a small, out-of-the-way restaurant with a Southern touch. Steve recommends
the chili, but 21-year-olds should try the $.75 “Gee Whiz” beer. Then, get some tickets to the Comedy Zone. If
you haven’t been to a comedy club before, this is the one to try. They feature very talented comedians as
well as good food and drinks. Bring some money, though, because it’s not cheap. But do not miss Brian Regan;
he’ll be there after Christmas break.

WEDNESDAY — Put on your boots and head to Coyote Joe’s. This is an experience you must have before leaving
Davidson. You can even get in free from 7 until 9 to take dance lessons so you won’t look stupid
when all of the regulars get there. It really is a lot of fun if you like country music and
dancing. I’m told that if you’re not a dancer, it’s even more fun to watch all of the rednecks.

THURSDAY — Go barhopping and find the right place for you. First, try the Selwyn Pub. During the week, it’s
a very laid-back, quiet bar with entertaining bartenders. It attracts a young, professional crowd. You can either sit inside, playing
cards or pinball, or relax on the porch with your friends. Then, go to Midtown or Providence Road Sundries. These
are big, open bars, and if you like the loud, party-type atmosphere, you’ll love it here. Finish off the night
at the Dilworth Brewery. This is a microbrewery of some quality beer—try Albemarle Ale. For those who are under 21,
they have some good appetizers and a very social atmosphere.

See Bar tab continued on page 11

Photo by John Ford

E Rider by Jacob Abraham

I got a phone call this week asking me to write an article about some Davidson senior who plans to
quit school and bike around the world. I must admit, the first thing that came to my mind was Forrest
Gump, jogging his way back and forth across the country in his state of blissful oblivion. What I pictured was
some activist hippy “duuude” with a Grateful Dead t-shirt and a Walkman, weaving his trusty ten-speed through the Tibetan mountains
or across the Sahara desert. Then I met Sean Carithers, a 21-year-old political science major from Seattle. What I found
instead was an ambitious, driven young man who had decided to use his great athletic talent for a great cause.

Davidsonian: I’ve been told that you’ve decided to take a year off from school and bike around the world. I
guess the first thing I’m wondering is, how did you come up with this crazy idea?

Sean: Well, I race bicycles. That’s what I do besides going to school. I race for a team called World
T.E.A.M. The acronym is The Exceptional Athlete Matters, and the company that owns World T.E.A.M. is a sports charity organization.
It’s probably one of the more predominant amateur racing teams in the country. We have about 20 team members across
the country, and we compete in the United States Cycling Federation. I have teammates from California, Boston, etc., and we
usually meet at races. Since I’m at Davidson now, I usually try to stay in the Southeast.

Davidsonian: Can you tell me a little about the charity organization you mentioned?

See Wow continued on page 12
