Che D
"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"
Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXVI MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1994 NUMBER 7

Living together. Could freshmen men and women live in dorms co-ed by hall? Some student leaders bring the issue back
to the forefront.

By Jay Jennings & Robert Ramsay

The SGA will face yet another controversy when two resolutions for co-ed housing are presented in this week’s meeting. Last
year, the SGA voted in favor of a co-ed housing proposal; however, former Dean of Students Will Terry did not
approve the proposal. Senior Class President B.J. Rudell plans to revive the issue.

The Resolutions

One resolution would advocate co-ed housing by hall for freshmen. However, every freshman would have the option to live in
a single-sex dorm. Residence Life would satisfy these requests first. The second resolution would support one co-ed hall for upperclassmen
with two bathrooms. Rudell hopes to pass the resolutions this week, then submit them to Dean Shandley and perhaps the
trustees. Rudell has consulted Richard Terry, some students, and the Alumni committee and senses that there is a desire for
these types of resolutions. Rudell hopes this will improve relations between the sexes, giving students another opportunity to get to
know members of the opposite sex.

The Dilemma

But is that opportunity a good enough motivation? Davidson’s residential structure is as much a part of the school’s personality
as the Honor Code or late nights at the Outpost. What would be the consequences of changing this, and would
those consequences be worth the effort?

Most arguments concerning upperclass housing are strongly in support of co-ed dorms. Students who have lived in Irwin, Akers, and
Knox, attest to the high degree of unity and entertainment derived from life down the hill. Likewise, seniors who live
in the apartments generally enjoy the sense of community that develops. This attitude is shared by students at other schools
as well. Maggie Cole, a sophomore at the University of Georgia, says that a co-ed dorm by hall would be
“a lot messier, but I would not have a problem with it.” And as for a dorm that was co-ed
by room, other than the fact that she would think twice about walking down the hall in a towel, Cole
says that “basically, it wouldn’t bother me at all.”

Senior senator Chad Lloyd feels very differently about the issue. He believes that “there has to be a distinct problem
before such a dramatic change is made.” He thinks that students are mature enough not to have the school force
contact with the opposite sex.

Rosie Molinary, a hall counselor on 4th Rich, says that when the girls on her hall were presented with the
idea of co-ed dorms for freshmen, they yelled in unison, “No!” Laura Ramsay, a freshman at Auburn living in a
women's dorm,

See Co-ed continued on page 5

NEH grant establishes Humes professorship

By Mary Clare JalonickThe Humanities program will show improvement and expansion next year due to $275,000 given to honor a
distinguished professor. The grant, made by the National Endowment for the Humanities, will enable one professor to take leave from
his or her department and focus entirely on humanities for two years. The professor will return to teach both sections
of humanities each semester, while developing a theme for lectures and preparing professorial workshops.

Brian Shaw, current director of the Humanities program, says that “the theme will not only give students a new look
at the program, but will also prompt the faculty to think about humanities in new ways.” Present and former Humanities
professors are invited to submit a proposal to the dean of students and the director of the Humanities program which
outlines their ideas for thematically shaping the program.

See Humes continued on page 3

BACKED UP IN TRAFFIC
Traffic on I-77 has created problems for Davidson drivers. The construction on I-77 between Davidson and Mooresville often has traffic
backed up nearly five miles south of exit 30. Photo by Brooke McRae

THIS WEEK
First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

Transcript changes considered to avoid grade inflation
By Susan Warren

Grade inflation is a growing concern on college campuses in the United States. Colleges that once gave C’s and F’s
now do not go below a B. Stanford and Harvard may be difficult schools to get into, but 90% of
the grades given are A’s and B’s, according to an article by Jackson Toby in the Wall Street Journal on
September 8, 1994.

According to The Campus Chronicle, Davidson’s Efficiency Task Force is considering adopting a transcript system similar to Dartmouth’s in order
to avoid grade inflation. A Dartmouth transcript shows the grade the student received in the course, the median grade of
the class, and the number of students in the class. This system allows the student and others to see how
the student did compared to the rest of the class.

With a transcript like Dartmouth’s, grades would take on new meaning. If you have an A in a class that
has an A average, then the grade would not be quite as impressive. On the contrary, if you have a
3.4 and the average is a 2.6, your grade will only look better, since the lower average implies that the
course is difficult.

Dr. Peter Hess, an Economics professor and head of the Efficiency Task Force, speaks highly of the Dartmouth system, saying
the Dartmouth transcripts provide “graduate schools and employers with a lot more information.”

Bright lights, big city - Davidson citizens are concerned about future development.
NEWS

Tony Tuntasit encourages Davidson students to act more like six-year-olds.
OPINIONS 8

Childness a plus. - Glamour Shots
Rachel enters the world of big hair and pink feathers to find out what this craze is all about.
ARTS 10

Football wins. The Wildcats pick up their first win of the season against Methodist College.
SPORTS 14
