THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1994: 9

Ken May

Time keeps on slippin’

Just yesterday I picked up my phone and listened to the message from my friendly neighborhood editor informing me that
this was the semester’s last Davidsonian. What!! Why are we quitting so early? Is our esteemed school newspaper finally being
censored out of existence? I made a mad dash for my desk and scrambled to find my RLO Red Book
and its oh-so-conveniently placed daily calendar. Good God! There it was right in front of me. The Big D word.
Death, destruction, distress, depression, decay (of my GPA), and Finals (Yes, I know “finals” doesn’t start with D). December had
arrived. I was wondering why I’ve been so cold lately. Doesn’t it seem like it was just September? I mean
everybody told me freshman year would fly by, but no one said anything about sophomore year passing at light speed
like the Millennium Falcon. What is it about time that makes it speed up when you’re not paying attention to
it? Every time I turn around another week is gone. Am I really the only person who is terrified with
their life passing by too quickly?

This brings me to the central issue. In observing myself and others (especially classmates), I’ve noticed a disturbing trend. It
seems everybody lives for the future and never for the present. Particularly at Davidson, we get so caught up in
all our goals and expectations. Be it planning for medical school, the completion of the upcoming review, or merely the
arrival of the next holiday, it’s all the same animal. We continually strive for that time when we’ll finally be
content. Not surprisingly, we never reach it. Vacation is always too short and there’s always another review right around the
corner. Let’s face it folks, we live in the present, not the future, no matter how hard we try. Everything
we think and do occurs in the present moment. We can plan out what we’re going to do in subsequent
moments, but we can never actually live these plans anywhere but the here and now. This is all kind of
metaphorical, but it’s the truth. Lord knows, I am the biggest offender of all, but I really believe the key
to living a more peaceful and fulfilling life is to shift focus from the future to the present. Instead of
wasting precious energy focusing on future moments that can’t yet be attained, try savoring each present moment that is well
within reach. I know you can’t totally neglect the future. Deadlines, dreams, and such are all a very real part
of our existence. But certainly every single one of us could benefit from trying to enjoy more of the present
and worry less about the future. I’m serious!! Make the effort. It’s too late for 1994, but spring semester affords
us the opportunity to make up for all that lost time. I don’t know about you, but I’ve already got
one of my New Year’s resolutions. Happy studying!

Kimberly Kreiling

On the interdependence of rationality and experience

In general, balancing emotion and intellect should be our goal inasmuch as we strive for positive growth. Too much of
either one without the other will turn our lives into either a powerhouse for unbridled fits of feeling or else
into a dry, mechanically equating think tank. If, however, we reason and consider our circumstances through the screen of the
facts of life, our emotions will become complementary to the foundation of our rational conclusions.

Let us further consider the relationship between thought and feeling. Can we reason and experience at once? Human intellect is
too abstract and human experience is too concrete. While we are roaring with laughter, we cannot analyze the nature of
humor or our laughing will become an abstraction. Once we begin to comprehend intellectually our experiences, they fall to the
level of an object of study. In a way, then, the more we think, the less we engage in reality.
Conversely, to be full of heart with no direction is to be drifting aimlessly, denying, in fact, the potential in
good intention. Surely both trends can be easily identified in the church today — well, at the very least, too
easily identified.

But what if our reasoning is the very source from which springs an experience? What if what we believe is
the transcendent divine, the Word made flesh? It is not only possible, but in fact worship to pursue the contemplative
life by engaging in a relationship with the divine, while not forgetting our doctrine, the facts upon which we should
base our belief in the Father, Son, and Spirit. Thus, Jesus did not come to abolish the law but to
fulfill the law, that we might continue to know and learn of God and His Word, and in addition that
we might be able to see His face, to hear His voice, and to feel His presence within our lives.

Martin Luther King, Jr. spoke of the necessary marriage of law and love in his speech entitled “Tough Mind —
Tender Heart.” Elaborating on Christ’s words, “Be ye therefore wise as serpents, and harmless as doves,” he compels his listeners
to engage in hard, solid thinking while knowing that such thought will lead us towards lives of compassion, humility, and
reconciliation. Although we must work to balance our mind and emotion, the two are interdependent. Surely, if Jesus Christ did
not live, die, and rise from the dead, then my faith is foolishness. Moreover, these three facts do not exclude
but are accompanied by the mythological legend of the heavenly One living deep in the imagination of every one of
us. For, as C.S. Lewis said, “Perfect myth and perfect fact claim not only our love and our obedience, but
also our wonder and delight, addressed to the savage, the child, and the poet in each one.of us no less
than to the moralist, the scholar, and the philosopher.” Let us recall the history then, that God sent his Son,
and at once let our hearts be moved by remembering the fact that He performed this miracle for no other
reason than because He so loved the world.

I’m genuinely worried about this school
Holt Vaughan

I fear that the social life at Davidson College is heading in the wrong direction — that is, it’s slowly
but surely dwindling. I am a senior now, and I can honestly say that I have seen every perspective of
the social life here. I have been a full member of a fraternity, I have been “just a social member,”
and I have been independent. I have seen it all during my three and one-half years here, and right now,
I think the social life is dying.

I would like to preface my argument by saying I believe everybody’s number one priority should be education. And as
a whole, I think the students here have such a priority. Davidson students must earn their diplomas. I keep hearing
this rumor that Davidson has one of the highest workloads in the country. I don’t know what that means or
where that came from—but I wouldn’t doubt its validity.

The fact is, students at Davidson work. We work very hard. From what I have found, natural intelligence goes only
so far (which isn’t very far in my case), but there comes a point that if you don’t work, you
don’t survive. Because of this intense academic pressure that exists, however, there is a need for a release. I, for
one, am a very hard worker. If I don’t take a break regularly, though, my work ethic can backfire. It’s
just like lifting weights — you must rest the muscles so you can break them down again to make them
stronger. The same philosophy holds true for studying. The court, therefore, is a must. For most of us, it is
a necessary release.

So why am I bringing this up? I realize people are always complaining about the social life around here. I
hope I am not placed in that same category because I feel as if I am speaking genuinely. Please, somebody
tell me I’m interpreting the situation inaccurately, but I feel as if there is a strain between the Davidson academia
and Davidson social life. Faculty complain that fraternities negatively affect our studies. So, the Dean of Students (I think) has
played hardball with the students. If you screw up once, you pay. Fraternities are on probation regularly. Already tight rules
get tighter with every month. Our parties have regulated hours that get shorter each year.

I see these changes, and I try to understand them. Why is the school so concerned with how we spend
our free time? Are they afraid we aren’t studying as much as we should be? Perhaps they think the court
is dangerous, and they don’t want to be liable for potential accidents. Perhaps they have many reasons, and I’m sure
they all have good intentions. I sometimes get annoyed, however, when I consider the fact that I am paying over
$20,000 to attend this institution. I am 21 years old, and, as far as I know, an adult. Now, I’m
not saying that being an adult gives me the rights to rule the world, but once I come to a
college as competitive as Davidson, I should at least be given the respect to do what I want during my
free time. If I do things that have a negative effect on my grades, that’s nobody’s fault but mine. Once
again, I applaud the efforts of improving the academic strength of this school. I just hope this effort doesn’t end
up hampering the strength and quality of the social life. It’s unfortunate that a strain between the academic world and
the social world exists at Davidson, as these things should work hand in hand.

Write for Opinions. Send a message to Jeff Kent -(2)6830
Walt Barron

Thanksgiving break?

When I hear the words Thanksgiving break, I think of relaxing and spending time with family and friends. I think
of nice meals, friendly conversation, naps on the couch, and just plain doing nothing. I imagine taking a break from
school. But not here at Davidson—at home and away from anything related to Davidson or academics. Breaks should be about
getting away from school life and relaxing.

So my question is, why do so many professors here at Davidson assign work over the Thanksgiving break? Isn’t “Thanksgiving
break” a misnomer here at Davidson? I’m sure that many professors at other schools dish out work for students to
do over Thanksgiving break, but does that mean that Davidson needs to as well to maintain our rigorous academic standards?
If so, then the break should be re-named. Here are some possibilities: “The Pseudo-Thanksgiving break,” “A Break to do work
at home instead of at Davidson,” or “A chance to sit around with your friends and do work during Thanksgiving
break.”

I do not care if the amount of assigned work is minimal. Professors should not give work over the break.
I understand that they want to stay on schedule, but there has to be some way to avoid assigning work
during this time period. I would guess that professors do not want to grade any work during this time period,
so I would think that they would understand that the students don’t want to do work either.

I hope that someone, student or faculty member, can shed some light on this small problem and perhaps come up
with a solution. And since this is the last issue of The Davidsonian before the Christmas break, I want to
wish every student and faculty member a relaxing, enjoyable, and work-free break this holiday season.
