16

What do you say to a man who has given almost his entire life to your college? We decided to
let him do the talking, a role with which he felt plenty comfortable. April 12, 1994

What was Davidson like when you were chaplain, and what changed for you when you became the Dean?

Well, the nature of the jobs are so very different. If you mean, what was Davidson like when I came
back, it was a thousand men, chapel was still three days a week, vespers was obligatory. It was a very
tight community. Basketball was making its way into national prominence, and that was probably the most fun thing about that
era. It was really a mania, and it was very good in helping build community. Alcohol was not on campus,
so most of the social life took place off campus. The three big weekends were bigger because there were no
women here and the weekends were a lot of the social life. Men moved out of the dorms when women
came in, not like today. (We’ll just leave it at that.) But it was a fun time. At that point,
I could know the names of practically every student on campus, and did, and formed a very close pastoral relationship
with lots of students. Students didn’t have as many problems then as they do now. The family was more stable,
we had not experienced the turmoil of the Vietnam War or the upheavals of the Civil Rights movement that upset
the equilibrium of society. It was also when we had our first African student here, which was the beginning of
integration. Then we began admitting African-Americans.

What was the most tumultuous time you remember at Davidson?

The time when I was at the church was when all the upheaval began. Students were really very concerned about
their futures, though, even if they had a future. “I could go to Vietnam and be shot and never come
back, so what’s the purpose of it all?” Of course, a lot of people were in school to keep from
going to Vietnam. It was a difficult time for everybody. In the midst of all that, too, was the introduction
of self-selection and the turmoil that brought on Patterson Court with fraternities leaving and leaving very angry. Two moved off
campus, and then a lot of them left for good. And then in ‘73 was the advent of coeducation, which
certainly was the most significant change that has taken place at Davidson, at least in the forty years I’ve known
anything about it.

And I guess as far as personal turmoil the two most tumultuous times were the great disaffection by the football
players when we went to Division III. They did not feel treated right by the college and their parents were
very angry. I was the sounding board for their anger because they saw me as an ally. Out of that
came some very fine friendships, however. The other one was two years ago during all the turmoil involving SAE and
the Select Committee and all that stuff. That was the most personally painful time for me ever.

What changes, in your opinion, have helped Davidson the most in becoming a nationally recognized liberal arts college?

I think Sam Spencer’s presidency had the most to do with our becoming a nationally recognized college. Because of his
own influence in educational circles when he came to Davidson which were strengthened as he was at Davidson. He implemented
programs and policies like coeducation, emphasis on an international experience, and a shift in faculty recruitment. We put more emphasis
on research than previously. I think Admissions began to make us more geographically diverse, which raised people’s awareness in higher
education circles of our place. Part of it may be that people just began to recognize the excellence that was
here all along. I don’t know what else to say about it. We became recognized for the excellent institution we’ve
always been, and we did some things to heighten our profile. Basketball had something to do with it, early on,
because people began to know there was a little college in the South named Davidson through basketball. Perhaps people began
to look harder and saw we were good. Another thing I think may have helped was that the South has
become more enticing as a place to come to school. That’s certainly been Davidson’s experience, but that’s also been the
experience of schools like Duke, Chapel Hill, UVA, and Wake Forest. People began to look at Davidson as a place
that they might like to go to school, and found that that’s what they want in a college. My concern
about our rise is that I think that in order to keepThat position, we are too likely to sacrifice some
of the things that have made us great. We have always had the tendency to look over there and say,
“Let’s be like them,” rather than, “Let’s be us,” and I think Dr. Kuykendall was very wise when he came
here and said that he thought that what Davidson needed to do was decide what Davidson wanted to be, and
if we did it well, we would be acclaimed for our excellence. National ranking was something that came to you
because you were doing things right, not something you did in order to get national recognition. I think that is
a very wise posture.

Do you have any advice for your successor?

The one thing I think a Dean of Students should always be is an advocate for students, primarily. Not an
advocate for the faculty, the administration, or even the Trustees. Now that doesn’t mean that one has to acquiesce to
every student wish, because that would be foolishness, but one needs to be seen as the Dean of Students, not
as the mouthpiece of somebody else. That’s the one thing I would say that’s important. I certainly hope that person
will look at some of the mistakes I’ve made and not make the same ones. And the new Dean will
find that all too clearly. Everybody will be glad to tell the person what they want immediately. That person can
look at those mistakes and see how to rectify them and therefore have a very successful tenure.

What are your favorite and least favorite things about Davidson?

Well, my favorite thing about Davidson is the students. I won’t say what my least favorite thing is for the
record. It’s the students, it’s the sense of history that we really have been a part of something that was
very special and very different. In our time, a sense of history is scorned by a lot of people at
Davidson. That’s unfortunate, but that’s the way it is. I think the thing I like is the pride students take
in their friendships with each other and the kind of support that brings, and the genuine care that a lot
of them have for one another. And that’s not universal, and that’s unfortunate, but it’s not universal anywhere. That's the
thing I like most about Davidson.

What do you see in Davidson’s future?

In the short run, I see Davidson really having to financially tighten its belt and make some very tough financial
decisions. And as the Dean, that concerns me because if some other institutions are any measure and even some of
my experience here is that the first thing some people want to cut is student services. That is a dangerous
temptation. I see that financial belt-tightening as not all bad because it may make us more efficient about the way
we do a lot of other things. The primary objective, as far as I’m concerned, of a college is not
to be just efficient but to serve the needs of its students and its faculty and to keep the promises
it makes to its students and to the students’ parents when they come here. I think that’s going to be
a real issue in the next few years and one that needs to be taken seriously.

I think we’ve been so very lucky in being able to attract good students. That is a never-ending and capricious
undertaking because you never know what the hot college is going to be the next year. I think we have
got in Nancy Cable Wells an absolutely first-rate person who understands what needs to be done and who I feel
has embraced Davidson and what it really means in a way that few new administrators do. I think that as
long as we keep her, which is not going to be easy, the admissions picture is going to be pretty
bright. Admissions is our life-blood. I hope Davidson will not become just a rich person’s college. With the financial problems
ahead, that’s going to be a temptation. I hope Davidson will always maintain a democratic spirit that I’ve experienced in
the past that a person is judged by who he or she is and not by what mama does or
what papa owns. That’s a very important thing that many of our peer institutions don’t have. But I think we
do have it, and I hope we’ll maintain it.

I hope we will keep athletics as a very vital and viable part of the college because I think it’s
given us a name recognition that nothing else does. It’s given us an alumni support that few other things do.
Besides, it’s fun and contributes to a well-rounded student body. I think we are a very well-managed college, and I
think that will continue. The selection of the next president will be very crucial to the future of the college,
and I have absolutely no predictions on that. The four presidents I’ve worked for have been a remarkable group of
people who have been very talented and whose weaknesses were always compensated by their successor’s strengths so that they have
been able to build on each other’s legacy. And I hope that will be true in the future, and if
it is, I think we’ll be in good shape.

Do you have any parting words for the campus?

Well, to be trite but to be very sincere, thanks for the memories.

BY ALEX CRUMBLEY
