8 OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1994

The tragedy in Union, South Carolina revealed the vulnerability of America. For nine agonizing days, Susan Smith convinced America it
was witnessing another child abduction. While the national news media provided an hourly account of the search for Michael and
Alex, their mother stood before television cameras and uttered outright lies about their whereabouts. Union was invaded by satellite trucks
and reporters eager for gossip about the case. The town became a production studio for tabloid television. The mystery of
the disappearance of the boys is solved now, and the sudden burst of humanity into Union retreated long ago. Many
Americans were devastated when Smith confessed to drowning her children in the murky grave of Long Lake. It was left
to Smith’s tearful relatives to provide an explanation of her actions, an account that was totally inadequate after such an
ordeal.

What is unique about this case is the degree to which people involved themselves in the story and became emotionally
connected to its details when the outcome was revealed. Certainly, the nation grieved over the horrific deaths of the two
boys. Yet, their deaths are not the reason for the attention and sorrow focused on this case. This type of
abduction is heard too often in contemporary America. Innocent children are abducted daily with little media coverage or public outpouring
of grief. America became obsessed with the deaths of the brothers for two reasons. First, the children were killed by
their own mother, not a faceless thug. The hands that once cradled them methodically strapped them into their car seats
and drove a Mazda Protege into the water. The deaths of the children were awful, but the transformation of their
mother into a composed killer is what was shocking. Second, many Americans felt betrayed and used by Smith. Not only
did she kill her children, Smith deliberately lied to everyone who watched television, read the newspapers, or searched isolated forests
for her sons. Not only was Smith believable, but many people cried with her, the killer of her own offspring.
Virtually every American who followed this case was a “sucker” for Smith’s testimony. When people realized how convincing Smith had
been and how she had successfully captured national attention with a fabricated story, many were upset and startled at how
easily she had manipulated their emotions.

The funeral mourned far more than the passing of two children. It showed again how our collective ability to trust
people, even those who claim to have lost their own children, has been diminished. It’s saddening to think that a
mother in distress, a person we want to believe, is capable of such twisted acts. It’s downright startling to realize
that Smith’s life was not very different from that of any ordinary person. What Susan Smith really revealed is the
dark, chilling baseness hidden deep within us all.

A Different Perspective: Ike Bailey

Tell me you accept yourself. Why do we claim to be offended when someone says something that we do not
agree with? A few weeks ago I wrote an article that suggested that this country has a major racial problem,
and someone promptly called me an “extremist” because of it. I also suggested that the black race was incredibly strong
because of the way it handled the many hardships it has faced. After reading this, people responded as if I
was suggesting that black people were somehow “superhuman.” People were really offended. But does this mean that deep down inside
us, there is the basis for accepting one another? Because once we accept and love and respect ourselves, then, and
only then, can we accept and love and respect someone else. This is why the words “black is beautiful” coming
from the mouth of a young African-American should ring like sweet music in the ears of all of white America.
Not because you should suddenly want to be black too. Simply because you now know that you are dealing with
a person who has learned to accept themselves.

I don’t understand why two men would enjoy each other’s company in an intimate way. Maybe homosexuals don’t understand why
heterosexuals enjoy the company of the opposite gender. I don’t understand why people find it so amusing when I stutter.
I don’t even understand why some students walk around campus with no shoes on. But does this mean that I
cannot accept these things? NO! I can accept these things because I know that I do lots of things that
others would never understand as well.Why? Does it mean that if I recognize a problem that you don’t, I’m suddenly
preaching negativity? Does it mean that if I suggest that one group is strong, all other groups are weak? No!
Those are not logical assumptions. We have a big problem, and it does not always concern race. We don’t want
to be bothered with someone else’s problems or viewpoints. We don’t want to be “belittled” by someone else’s pride. We
don’t want anyone else to seem more important than we are. And this is why we can’t talk. Instead of
listening and learning from one another to broaden our thinking, we would rather ridicule and force others to conform to
our ideals. Instead of craving for honesty, we crave for comfort. Instead of recognizing and respecting our differences, we would
rather ignore them.

I say these things because I have accepted myself. So, with that, I want to issue a challenge. I want
a white American student to tell us all how proud he/she is to be white. I want a female student
to tell us how great it is to be a woman. And I want a homosexual to tell us how
great it is to be homosexual. Tell us how strong you are. Tell us that you are proud of your
heritage. Tell us in a way that points out your strengths, without trying to highlight anyone else’s weaknesses. Tell us
that you have accepted yourself!

I can tell you for sure that I am truly proud to be African-American. I love my tan. I love
my body. I love my rhythm. I love my strengths. I love my creativity. I love my ancestors that were
kings and queens. I love my ancestors that were slaves. And I even love the fact that I can recognize
my weaknesses. I love being African-American because I love being me!

"There can be no white-black unity, until there is black unity. We cannot think of uniting with others until we
first learn to unite with ourselves. We cannot think of being acceptable to others until we are first proven acceptable
to ourselves.” —Malcolm X

Robert Ramsay

Through dead-rose-colored glasses

On the heels of the University of Chicago sex study must come a close look at the attitude toward sex
in America. What such an analysis reveals is that much of what the mass of the population is fed from
outside sources, from youth and into adulthood, is anything but healthy.

A couple of weeks ago I attended an audition in New Bern, North Carolina. After all of the monologues, the
panel of judges offered the group some advice that might be helpful in later auditions. One of the judges offered
this: “Don’t do pieces that express cynicism toward sex. You guys are too young to be cynical about sex.” I
thought that her comment made a sad statement about how we are trained to feel about sex. Did she mean
that if we were older our sexual cynicism would be justified? If so, then like Peter Pan, I hope to
stay young!

But youth is not entirely a wonderworld, either. A great deal of children are trained to think of sex as
dirty and forbidden, which accounts for so much of teen pregnancy—the rebel spirit; if it is forbidden, by God, I’m
going to do it. This attitude goes all the way back to the cookie jar. Mom said not to touch
it; I touched it and got a tasty cookie; forbidden things yield pleasant results.

Negative ideas about sex come from two main sources: the church...

See Epiphany on page 9
