2

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1994

Class of '98 plays it up in pre-court season, ready for first night down

By Elizabeth Coleman & Heather Lawler

This weekend, freshmen will get their first legal exposure to Patterson Court. Despite restlessness during the three-week restriction from Patterson Court, most freshmen have utilized the time by bonding and getting to know their classmates.

“It’s important to get to know the people in your class because they’re the ones you’ll be spending the next four years of your life with. After all, you never know—your next door neighbor might turn out to be your bridesmaid,” says freshman Jennifer Neal.

Photo by Brooke McRae

Freshmen relax at the lake after the regatta during the all-campus fall festival.

Alcohol-free activities scheduled for freshmen include hall mixers, during which girls and guys get to know each other through pie-making contests, body painting, and games like “Win, Lose or Draw.”

The class of 1998 spent its first weekend at Davidson square dancing and gambling at Casino Night. One freshman girl said, “Square Dancing was really cool because everyone let loose and made fools of themselves together.”

Country line dancing, karaoke, and “Freshmen Feud” were among activities offered at Casino Night. Freshman Tom Kapioltas says, “I sang ‘Mony Mony' and a bunch of country songs I didn’t know in my unharmonious voice. It was a blast.”

Freshmen ended their first week of classes with a trip to a

See What Fun on page 3

Patterson Court opens to freshmen soon

By Russ Tarver & Mary Stephens

Members of the Class of 1998 eagerly anticipate their first night down on Patterson Court, which should be an exciting night for freshmen and upperclassmen alike.

Three years ago, freshmen were forced to wait six weeks before venturing to fraternity/eating house parties. The period of time was shortened in order to alleviate the mystique of the Court.

Freshman Advisors John Murchison and Wendy McHugh explain the shift. "The longer they (freshmen) wait, the bigger deal it becomes," says Murchison. McHugh agrees: "Freshmen won't feel obligated to prove what a great first night they had."

This weekend's festivities will begin Friday afternoon at SAE with a reggae band co-sponsored by Warner Hall.

Kappa Sig, KA, Sig Ep, Phi Delt, and PiKA are busy planning parties as well. The events will range from typical “late night” parties to bands and even “Video DJ” at Phi Delt. On Saturday night, Fiji will kick off the first weekend down by hosting “Strawberry Fields Forever,” featuring fruit drinks and dance music.

Patterson Court Council member and Connor President Laurie Self says, “It’s a little early, but I’m sure it will be a success.” Sig Ep Social Chair Chris Mann agrees: “It will be good to see fresh new faces on the court.”

DAVIDSON vs. #8 UCLA

WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 14 7:00 PM AT RICHARDSON FIELD

STUDENT TICKETS $5.00 AT THE GATE

Call Us! 896-8007

Shops on the Green - Cornelius HOURS: 4pm-11pm Sun-Thurs; 4pm-12 midnight Fri-Sat

Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Cash value 1/20¢. ©1994 Domino's Pizza Inc.

LARGE LATE NIGHT SPECIAL

Large 1 topping pizza $6.99 plus Cokes 35¢ Additional toppings 50¢ Offer valid Sunday - Thursday 10PM - Midnight

MEDIUM LATE NIGHT SPECIAL

Medium 1 topping pizza $5.25 plus Cokes 35¢ Offer valid Sunday - Thursday 10PM - Midnight