THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS - MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1994

By Laura Dennis

Even with mounds of work to do this time of year, many Davidson students found time in their busy schedules
to come out for the various events which celebrated health and wellness last week. Sponsored by the Student Health and
Counseling Center, these events came at the perfect time: when just about every student is getting into the “crunch” of
the semester when there is little sleep, a lot of late-night studying, and too much caffeine and sugar. All the
organizers worked hard to publicize the week and their efforts definitely paid off.

On Monday, around 30 people went to hear comedian Brad Griffin perform at the Union Outpost. The performance was sponsored
by Jumpin’ Java, S.E.R.C.H., and the International Student Association. Nance Longworth says the performance “served as a great study break,
which is exactly what it was intended to do.”

Wednesday afternoon, the Health Center sponsored a health fair entitled “Just for the Health of It.” Thankfully, it turned out
to be a beautiful day, and many students stopped by on their way to and from class to see what
it had to offer. There were numerous booths set up by a variety of organizations from Davidson and the community.
Along with helpful health information, people at the fair also gave out flu shots, massages, and free food. Nurses from
the Student Health Center were busy all day giving out flu shots, which are very helpful for students this time
of year when they have no time to be sick.

Collie Bryan, who manned the Women’s Issues Committee booth focusing on the gynecological visit, says that a lot more guys
than girls stopped by to check out their information. The campus police displayed a curious collection of weapons they had
confiscated in the town of Davidson, while a few booths down, students gave free massages, although Laurie Self, one of
those students, comments that student massagers from Connor House had “stiff competition with the professional masseuse” who was there. At
the nutrition booth, if you named five fruits or veggies of the same color, you could have an apple. Davidson
Outdoors made outdoor pizza while you waited, and Harris Teeter had a large sampling of their fat-free snacks and drinks.
Overall, the fair was a success, and Longworth comments that the representatives from the Health Center are “thinking about having
it every year.”

For some people, Wednesday night was the highlight of the week with Dr. Ruth Westheimer’s talk, “Sexually Speaking.” At 7:30
p.m., Love Auditorium was packed with people who had come in hopes to learn something new about that fascinating subject,
and Dr. Ruth delivered. Even though she had a bit of a cold, her accent still came through. She was
well received and was given a standing ovation at the end of her talk. Ashley Atkins, a senior, says, “It
was nice to finally have an open intellectual discussion of sex here at Davidson.” Dr. Ruth was chosen to speak
in order to promote sexual literacy on our campus, and she definitely made an impact.

Thursday night marked a very important event: the arrival of the NAMES Project AIDS Memorial Quilt. All the names of
the people represented on the quilt were read by important people from our community such as Dean Williams, Mrs. Kuykendall,
Charlotte’s Mayor Richard Vinroot, and Harvey Gantt, just to name a few. As the names were read, volunteers in white
unfolded sections of the quilt until the gym floor was covered. It was then that the public was allowed to
walk among the panels.

Finishing up the week, the movie Philadelphia was shown on Sunday and Thursday, and on Saturday night a fashion show
was held.held to benefit the Metrolina AIDS Project, Time Out Youth, and a scholarship. Finally, the closing ceremony for the
NAMES Project was held on Sunday night when new panels, including those for Davidson graduates, were accepted as additions for
the Quilt. The week succeeded in increasing awareness in a variety of health issues. Sarah Orsbon, chair of the Women’s
Issues Committee, says that all the events put together in one week “really helped to address these issues on our
campus.” In conjunction with Health Awareness Week, the NAMES Project promoted AIDS awareness and Dr. Ruth Westheimer spoke about sexuality.
In addition, a fair held Wednesday focused on education regarding nutrition, medicine, and other health concerns.

Phone-a-thons for regional campaigns continue this week
By Susan Warren

Tonight and tomorrow night, a phone-a-thon will take place in the Glasgow House to raise money for the regional campaigns
fund. Davidson is currently involved in a five-year, $150 million campaign for Davidson. Allison Wright, Assistant Director of Regional Campaigns,
has incorporated phone-a-thons into the regional campaign goal. During the five-year campaign, the Regional Campaigns office concentrates on specific areas
of the country. Each month Wright plans to have a paid phone-a-thon, where students will be paid five dollars per
hour, assuming they will work for both nights of the phone-a-thon. The students call prospective donors as a follow-up to
a letter sent earlier. Wright is currently seeking students to help with the December phone-a-thon, tentatively scheduled for December 12
and 13. For more information, call Wright at -2464. She speaks of the phone-a-thon as “a way of adding a
more personable approach” to the donation process.

The Regional Campaigns Committee has already held a phone-a-thon earlier this year. The first event was successful, with ten students
participating. Wright praises the phone-a-thons, stating that they “establish and maintain warm relations between alumni and the student body.” In
addition to the Regional Campaigns phone-a-thon, the Annual Funds Committee holds a calling session. This phone-a-thon is larger than the
Regional Campaigns phone-a-thon. The Annual Funds Phone-A-Thon was held last night and will continue tonight and tomorrow night from 7
to 9. This phone-a-thon is different than those held in the past in that only freshmen will be calling; in
addition to the solicitation calls, thank-you calls will be made to thank the donors who have already sent money. To
encourage freshmen to attend, an ice-cream sundae break will be held at 8:15 p.m., and prizes will be given to
those who make the most thank-you calls or who get in touch with the most people, despite how much money
they pledge. Laura Turner, Assistant Director of the Annual Fund, considers this approach as “rewarding [the freshmen] for their effort.”

Nancy J. Astle, M.D.
Craig S. Schauser, M.D.
Certified by American Board of Dermatology
Certified by American Board of Dermatology and American Board of Cosmetic Surgery

Specializing in Adult and Pediatric Care of the skin, hair, and nails; hair replacement surgery; liposuction; skin cancer removal, including
Mohs Technique; chemical peels; spider vein treatment.

19900 Hwy 73 West
Davidson, NC 28036

For an Appointment
Call 704-892-1818
