THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1994 11

Chris Wyrick Dan Parham designed and painted a kiosk in conjunction with the NAMES quilt. Photo courtesy of College Relations

By Jacob Abraham

As the seats of the Black Box Theatre gradually filled up, the gentle notes of a guitar and playful fiddle set the tone for the Davidson production of Heathen Valley. For the next couple of hours, the brilliant sound and lighting effects transformed the room into a primitive North Carolina backwoods in the 1800s. Here in the so-called “valley that God forgot,” six characters were thrust into the conflict between backwoods superstition and civilized religion. The play follows the personal quest of the Episcopal Bishop of North Carolina as he attempts to convert a valley of poor, simple folk into civilized disciples of the Episcopal Church. The complications arise when the Bishop himself begins to question his own connections with God, and his disillusionment spreads like wildfire through the newly-converted valley.

Director Ronnie Higdon succeeded in his attempt to simply tell the story of Heathen Valley and to let the audience interpret the message behind the play. The show was almost worth seeing just for its technical aspects. From the celebratory dancing tunes in the first act to the ominous chanting of the second act, the sound design captured the shifting tones of the play. The lighting was simply stunning; various shades and colors were used to help create the setting for each scene, switching from sunny daytime to starry moonlight. These technical effects, combined with perfect costumes and makeup, a minimalist set design, and Higdon’s creative blocking and direction, provided the appropriate backdrop as the actors performed the events of the story. Unfortunately, Wednesday night’s

Flanagan gives emotional reading

By Krisy Ford

In conjunction with Health/AIDS awareness week, Dr. Brenda Flanagan gave a reading of her fiction on Tuesday, November 8, in the Morrison Room. Students from her Caribbean Literature and African-American Literature classes as well as members of the faculty gathered for refreshments in an informal setting before the session began.

Flanagan began by giving the assembly some background information on her life and her family. As one of fourteen children, she was very close to her family, and in particular her brother Earle. At the age of ten she cried when she heard her mother say that “only the good die young.” Even as a youth, she was convinced her brother would die because he stood out as an exceptional person. She stood by her brother as he died of AIDS three years ago. Moved deeply by her own experience, she wrote the story entitled “To Die of Old Age in a Foreign Country,” which she read on Tuesday. It was told in the voice of mothers who must experience the death of a child who is somewhere else in the world. For the Caribbean mother in the story, this is a very strange death.

Flanagan exuded an overall presence that captivated the entire audience. Tears could be seen in the eyes of several listeners as she began reading in her Trinidadian accent. Her reading was quite emotional and filled with gestures, such as singing her own version of “Amazing Grace” in the story. This displayed the power of song in the Caribbean and the need for song in a time of sorrow. Her story spoke of the strength of women and their determination to do what they felt was right. She also emphasized strong family bonds and the need for a proper burial. Those who missed Flanagan can hear her read on November 20, at 3:00 p.m. at the BSC.

Students use talents to support quilt

Show offs from page 10

tackled an appropriate theme for the talent show: AIDS. Miles Mowry and John Seebach did spectacular jobs with their guitar improvisations. They played both original songs and covers. Doris Hermann and Joe Beach closed the organized part of the show with a few interesting covers from Cat Stevens and an emotional “Tears in Heaven” from Eric Clapton. Well, I was wrong in my preconceived opinions of talent shows. I have nothing but good things to say about these students who were willing to share their abilities to benefit a cause as important as AIDS awareness. The chance to see more of this talent is something I look forward to in the future.

The Soda Shop

A Davidson Tradition Since 1951

Breakfast Daily Until 11:30 a.m. Take-out Orders Welcomed!

Mon, Tues, Wed 8am - 8pm
Thurs, Fri, Sat 8am - 9pm
Sunday 9am - 8pm

NEW HOURS Now Open Every Evening

104 South Main Street, Davidson 896-7743performance seemed to suffer somewhat from a case of opening night nervousness. At first, Scott Lenhart’s Starns, one of the central characters of the play, seemed particularly strained and uncomfortable. His strongest moments came in the second act, particularly in his final speech to the Bishop and in his difficult death scene. This scene also provided one of Heather Baldwin’s finest moments in the play as the whimsical matron figure Juba. Two of the strongest performances came from Josh Buchanan as the twisted and simple-minded Harlan and Valerie Whitlock as his victimized wife Cora. Both of these characters received a lot of stage time and got to really develop — in contrast with the remaining two characters. Ian Buchanan’s Billy served well as a narrator and provided a couple of brilliant comic moments, but otherwise mainly functioned as a bystander. The character of the Bishop, played as well as possible by Robert Ramsay, suffered most from a lack of development. He disappeared almost as soon as he arrived in the valley at the beginning of the first act. In the second act, he finally spent some time on the stage as he struggled with his sense of spiritual satisfaction and his calling in the church. But without any background, this transformation came across mainly as just confusing; the Bishop seemed to waver constantly between smug self-righteousness and sincere piety. Nevertheless, the play succeeded in examining the many different responses which different people have to religion and the many different needs which religion fills. The three characters left standing in the starlight together at the end of the first act represented three major reactions. The Bishop sought religion as a means of finding God for himself, for his personal satisfaction. Starns used religion to connect with the earth, with the land and its people; he tried to find a faith that would work, a faith that would do something good for the people of the valley. For the orphan Billy, religion provided him with the home and sense of family that he never had. The people in the valley seemed to represent the common folk, who try to embrace Christianity by turning it into something they can understand. At first, Christianity seemed to meet each character’s individual needs, but by the end of the play, the audience was left only with questions and problems. Heathen Valley successfully examined both sides of the tremendous power of Christianity — both the good it can bring and the damage it can cause.

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
1 Food fish
5 Impression
10 Catch sight of
14 High point
15 Stogie
16 —-de-camp
17 Stampede
18 An Astaire
19 Youthful suffix
20 Helped
22 Dryness
24 Units of computer information
25 Ruler of old
26 Fire or steam
29 Bill collector
33 Saucy
34 King
36 Central part
37 Poetic preposition
38 Carney or Garfunkel
39 Eng. flyers
40 Holiday times
42 Sorrow
44 Fill up
45 Soldier on guard
47 Suds
49 Way
50 Scarlett's home
51 Renowned
54 News items
58 Estrada of TV
59 Wont
61 Cabbage
62 Occupation
63 Gladden
64 Give off
65 Come down
66 Prevent from acting
67 Recipe measure

DOWN
1 Poet Teasdale
2 Musical piece
3 Smaller amount
4 Show
5 Disperse
6 Neap and ebb
7 On in years
8 Bad: pref.
9 Salty snack
10 Like a lampoon
11 What inverse works
12 Camp item
13 Moral lapse
21 Used to own
23 A state: abbr.
25 Jalopy
28 Grassy area
29 Actor Ritchard
30 Pentateuch
31 Take to the stump
32 Direct to a source for help
35 Used sculls
41 Petted
42 Ground together, as teeth
43 Sag up
44 Piled up
46 Promise to pay
48 Onassis to some
50 Hackneyed
51 Tumbled
52 Elaborate melody
53 A state: abbr.
54 Like — out of hell
55 Dalai —
56 Wallach and Whitney
57 Adam's son
60 Stout