"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"  
The Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXV  
MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 1994  
NUMBER 15

Closing of weight room to non-varsity athletes sparks controversy  
By Wendy Lee

“Separate is not equal. That is a historical lesson that every educated person should know.” Senior Rafael Candelario used these words to express his and other students' opposition to recent changes in weight room facilities at Baker Sports Complex.

Adjacent to the complex entrance, the recently renovated racquetball court equipped with new Nautilus machines opened for use by all students, faculty, and staff last week. The old weight room, on the lower level of the complex, is now open to varsity athletes only. The new weight room is available for use from Monday through Thursday, 9 a.m.-midnight; Friday, 9 a.m.-7 p.m.; and Saturday and Sunday, 1 p.m.-7 p.m.

Student Concerns  
When Candelario learned of the changes, he wrote a page-long petition pronouncing opposition, collecting almost 200 student signatures. In the petition and elsewhere, Candelario and others have voiced their concerns about the changes. According to Candelario, the greatest disadvantage of the new weight room is the absence of free-weights.

Non-varsity athletes interested in lifting free-weights must schedule lift times with football coach Tim Landis and must commit to a program of four days a week. This option, only for the truly dedicated, is available only between the hours of 2 and 6 p.m., in Richardson Stadium. Students who enjoy alternating between free-weights and the machines no longer have that option, Candelario noted. Having to commit to a lift schedule with the football coach is “unrealistic and unfair to students.”

B.J. Rudell, SGA Junior Class President, agrees. Students should not have to follow a lift regimen set up by the football coach and “should not be threatened that if they don’t keep the schedule they will be cut.” Rudell, who pushed for extended Baker hours last semester, feels that the athletic administration had very good intentions in making the weight room change, but that the job is not complete. He feels that the current size of the new weight room should be expanded and more equipment, including free-weights, should be added.

Many students have expressed the opinion that the new equipment does not give as much benefit as the old setup.  
See Baker on page 5

Intent crucial in definition of plagiarism  
By Mandy Curtis

You forget to cite a paraphrase. You misquote an author. You use an idea without attribution. Are these trivial oversights or cases of plagiarism? The debate over the college’s official definition of plagiarism is something with which many faculty members and students have been wrestling since last spring. In the attempt to clarify the term for the entire college, the Student Conduct Council examined the ambiguities surrounding plagiarism implications and voted on a revised definition.

The revision reads: "Intentionally presenting someone else's work as your own [Sheridan Baker, The Complete Stylist and Handbook] in a research paper, written work, lab report, musical composition, computer algorithm, or data file is, therefore, cheating."

Before, the statement defining plagiarism read: “One of the premises on which the Honor Code is founded is that every Davidson student will give credit when he borrows the ideas or words of others. Sheridan Baker [in The Complete Stylist and Handbook] defines plagiarism simply as ‘presenting someone else’s work as your own.’”

Last semester, the council, with five faculty consultants, convened to discuss opposing ideologies in the debate over what exactly constitutes plagiarism and how to deal with such infractions. The compromise is reflected in the revised definition.  
See Cheat on page 6

Thanks for the grub  
Photo by Amy Laukkanen  
Ruskies Jenny Rose, Kristi Kops, Emily O'Brien, and Julie Dawson enjoy lunch. More than half of students eat on Patterson Court; quantity and quality of food, however, differ. What are you getting for the money you pay? For the complete coverage of board bills, see page 5.

Juniors to gamble on RLO lottery  
By Ashlyn Dannelly

With the addition of a new senior apartment, a new loft policy, and other changes, this year’s process of choosing housing will work much differently from last year’s process. The procedural changes have caused much...Confusion for students, particularly rising seniors, who are trying to straighten out living arrangements. The new senior apartment building may surface as the most complex aspect of the lottery process. Currently, the Martin Court apartments contain a total of 62 “4-person” suites. The newest apartment building, which recently began construction, will contain 18 “5-person” suites. The numerical difference causes problems for juniors who are deciding their best strategy to get an apartment. Many people are hesitant to set up a 5-person apartment group, wanting to avoid dropping one member of the group if the application is not successful. Fortunately, with the addition of the new apartment, there are enough spaces for every member of the junior class. The central problem lies in the grouping of apartment members.

Junior J.D. Semones finds the process of choosing which apartment to apply for extremely difficult. He says: “We have three people now, and initially we were kind of hoping that people would be afraid to go for a 5-person (apartment). But, then if you go for a 5-person, and then you don’t get an apartment, what do you do with the extra person?” He adds that his group has decided “to avoid it and just stick with a 4-person.”

This year, the deadline for Phase I of apartment applications, February 22, is much earlier than last year’s deadline of March 30. Groups must apply for either a 4- or 5-person suite, with the lowest combined total of random lottery numbers determining who picks first. Only rising seniors may apply in this phase. RLO will then see Lottery on page 6.

Steinberg startles audience with Pieta secrets

By Court McBryde

World-renowned art historian Leo Steinberg spoke about topics ranging from Picasso to Michelangelo during his two-day stay on the Davidson College campus last week. Steinberg served as the 1994 Davidson College R.J. Reynolds lecturer. This lectureship was established in 1959 with a grant from the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation and brings renowned speakers to campus each year. “Why I am unfit to speak about Contemporary Art,” “Picasso’s Self Portrait, 1907,” and “The Nature of the Spectator’s Participation in a Work of Art” were the lectures that led to his climactic speech entitled “The Outrageous Secrets of Michelangelo’s Famous Pieta.” Steinberg addressed a large crowd of Davidson students, faculty, and members of the community in Love Auditorium on Tuesday, January 25, with his grand finale on Pieta. He thanked the audience by saying that his stay at Davidson included “warm gen-” See Art on page 8.

THIS WEEK

Bookstore, cafe dominate Union plan

By Katherine Hash

Davidson’s Union Planning Committee expressed unanimous support for a new College Union in a report submitted to the Facilities Planning Committee on Friday, January 27. The report, submitted by committee chair Dr. Sally McMillen, offered the committee’s response to MPC associates draft report which outlined the consultants’ findings concerning Davidson’s Union facilities. The draft report asserted several needs including the need for a new Union, the need to provide a wide range of opportunities for this relatively isolated campus, and the need to modernize performance areas. The Union Planning Committee—comprised of faculty, staff, and students—expressed its support for these findings and commended the consultants for their efforts.

McMillen focused her comments on the reasons for and location of a new College Union rather than on specific requirements and allocations of space—a task she feels will be better handled by experts. The committee and the consultants believe that a College Union should be a centrally located building which draws students, faculty, and staff together for academic, social, and cultural activities. A union situated in the “corridor of space” between Duke and Sentelle, the laundry, and Belk, according to the committee, would see Union on page 8.

NEWS: SGA election coverage: interviews with candidates. Pages 2.

OPINIONS: Rob King somehow relates fraternities and God. Page 12.

SPORTS: Men's hoops holds off early ETSU run. Page 17.

ARTS: Rachel might be in Morocco, but she still loves to write for The Davidsonian. Page 14.

First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC 28036