THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS RK LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1994 11

with Geoff Graae

Steve Wariner returns, ripened with age and inspiration

All of us, from time to time, feel a need to escape the monotony of everyday life and leave the rigors of responsibility behind. But as that responsibility tends to overwhelm our spontaneity, very few actually take to the trail. Even fewer leave the map at home. For the past several years, Steve Wariner has shunned that monotony and, with guitar in hand, has returned to preach the value of an occasional blind journey. His latest album, Drive, is an exceptional compilation of travel and love songs from a seasoned veteran of the country (my editors are still uncapitalizing Country! Will my faithful readership sit idly by without protest?) music arena.

In his single, “Drivin’ and Cryin’,” Steve sings “Sometimes in Texas ain’t nothin out there/A man could get lost headed for nowhere/That’s where I’m goin’ without you/At least the nights won’t desert me.” Those lines exemplify the tone of the album. Drive includes one other single that made the radio playlists. “If I Didn’t Love You,” one of my top ten of 1993, portrays the moving, practiced voice that provoked this review. That same emotion, and some great lyrics, carry most of the album’s songs. The quality lyrics in “Missing You” are typical of Drive: “I started a letter, I staredincidents which turned this average American household into a self-contained nightmare, a sort of Twilight Zone where everything and everyone seem to be a little off-center — if not just plain crazy. Vince (Derek Judson), the grandson, has just shown up at the house for a visit after a six-year absence, and it’s up to him and his girlfriend Shelly (Ashley Wright) to make some sense out of the family and their strange behavior. The photo of the truck on the play poster is an allusion to Dodge, the father of the family, played by Jared Govan. “[Dodge] is a rusting pickup truck of a man,” says director Joe Gardner. As the crabbiest and oldest member of the family, Dodge seems to hold at least some of the clues to the family’s past, but so does his eccentric wife Halie (Jennifer Neale). The problem is, which one (if either) can be trusted? And why has their eldest son Tilden (Scott Lenhart) suddenly moved back in? And what about his brother Bradley (Frank Jernigan) with the prosthetic leg? Shepard, one of America’s foremost playwrights and an accomplished actor (The Right Stuff, Thunderheart), seems to have loaded the play with lots of intentional ambiguities which only intensify the mystery of the buried child. Rather than putting forth his own answers, Shepard seems to be more interested in raising questions and making the audience think — and laugh. Gardner describes the play as a “dark comedy” guaranteed to produce laughter, “a nervous laughter maybe, but... that’s the kind of experience I think that it adds up to.” “[The play] is loaded with rich ideas about what a family is, who we are as individuals and to what extent our identity is a part of the family,” he says. “I think it has a lot to do with the clichés or expectations we have of so-called normal American life, and [the play] exposes the fact that it’s not always that perfect and idyllic — and yet it’s worth living. And that’s where the positive part of it comes in, in the comedy.” Gardner says it is “an experience that will affect not only the intellect and the emotions, but the gut.” The show is in Hodson Hall, March 3-5 and 10-12, at 8 p.m.

Bavis loves The Beatles CDs continued from page 10

The Beatles — Revolver. The most impressive thing about Revolver is its ability to hold disparate songs together within the confines of an album. Even a cursory glance hints at how wild a mix Revolver is. “Eleanor Rigby,” a haunting tale of the death of a lonely seamstress, pulses from beginning to end with nothing more than Paul McCartney’s voice and a string octet. The drug mantra “Tomorrow Never Knows” mesmerizes with drums, bass, a distorted voice, and layer upon layer of backwards guitar tracks. “Yellow Submarine,” the best-known song on the album, features acoustic guitar, bass drum, and an array of sound effects over which Ringo Starr and Company chant, “We all live in a yellow submarine!” Contrast this piece with the next song, the highly philosophical “She Said She Said,” in which John Lennon laments, “She said, ‘I know what it’s like to be dead/I know what it is to be sad/And you’re making me feel like I’ve never been born.’” From yellow submarines to death — that is a jump only the Beatles could get away with. Still it is hard to explain why Revolver is such a good album, one most critics put above even Sgt. Pepper’s as their best. The best way to explain it is that the grab bag of songs all have just one thing in common: brilliance.

Slavitt to speak this week

David R. Slavitt, an eminent poet, novelist, translator, classicist and critic will be at Davidson on March 3 and 4. He will give a reading in the Morrison Room of the Union at 7:30 p.m. on Thursday, March 3 and will run a poetry workshop on Friday, March 4 in Chambers 309 from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Students interested in attending the workshop should contact Dr. Stephen Sandy at ext. 2442. Slavitt is the author of over fifty books, including a dozen volumes of poetry, 27 works of fiction, and translations of Ovid, Virgil, and Seneca. He is Lecturer of English and Classics at U. Penn and a Fellow at Yale.

Thank You To The Student Forum Committee For A Great Time At The CD Exchange Last Saturday!