Che a aNiDsonian

THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY

VOLUME LXXXV MONDAY, MARCH 14, 1994 NUMBER 21

World Cup soccer comes to Davidson

By Will Cobb

Five weeks ago, the United States National Soccer Team approached Davidson College with the opportunity to host a World Cup exhibition match giving a preview of what is to come this summer in cities all over America. Davidson was able to work out a deal that will feature the United States versus Moldavia on Wednesday, April 20, at 7:00 p.m. on Richardson Field. The event is expected to be a quick sellout. Tickets will go on sale exclusively for Davidson students and faculty at 9:00 a.m. on Wednesday. Reserved seating in the stands will be sold for $16.50 a ticket while standing room for adults will go for nine dollars. No additional bleachers will be installed, so all seats will be at a premium. Davidson will offer standing room seating between a three-foot advertisement fence and the stadium. A special section of 500 tickets for 12 and under children will be available at $4.50 apiece, while another standing section for 500 people will be offered for ages 13 and older at nine dollars apiece. All seating in the stands will be offered on a first-come, first-served basis. The ticket office has already received several phone calls asking for information. “I wouldn’t wait until school starts back [from Spring Break] to get tickets,” said Charlie Slagle.

The United States squad will feature the team that will compete this summer, including goalie Tony Meola (UVa), Brad Fiedel (UCLA), Thomas Dooley (England), Jeff Agoos (UVa), 1990 World Cup members Desmond Armstrong and Paul Caligiuri, and Alexi Lalas (Rutgers), who was featured in Sports Illustrated last month. The team will be coached by soccer missionary Bora Milutinović, who coached Mexico in 1986 and Costa Rica in 1990. The United States will face the Moldavian National Team. Moldavia is a region of Bessarabia which was incorporated into the U.S.S.R. earlier this century by Joseph Stalin. The Moldavians, who are primarily of Romanian descent, should have a playing style similar to that of the United States’ first-round opponent, Romania. “This is the next step in the evolution of what we’re trying to do here. They came to us, and they are promoting their own game, which they don’t do that often,” said Slagle. If the match is a success, the possibility for future matches will be enhanced. The game will simulate a World Cup match. The lowest price for a World Cup ticket this summer will be $45, so the maximum...

See Soccer on page 15

Ruddick Corporation endows professorship

By Katherine Hash

Ruddick Corporation and the Dickson Foundation recently announced that they will contribute $1 million over the next five years to establish the R. Stuart Dickson Professorship. The Dickson Professorship will recognize and support an outstanding teacher from any department. President Kuykendall says this latitude is in keeping with Dickson’s character: “Stuart himself has such a diversity of talents; to honor him properly, this professorship certainly should not be limited to one department.”

Stuart Dickson served as Chairman of the Board of the Ruddick Corporation from 1968 until he became Chairman of its Executive Committee in February 1994. The Ruddick Corporation, headquartered in Charlotte, owns four subsidiary companies including Harris Teeter, Inc., American & Efird, Inc., Jordan Graphics, Inc., and Ruddick Investment Company. As a business leader, Dickson has directed the operations, development, and growth of the Ruddick Corporation, which now has annual sales of $1.75 billion. As a community leader, he has...worked to assure the high quality of the region’s education, healthcare, and cultural resources. Dickson is a Davidson alumnus and has served on the Executive Committee of Davidson’s Board of Trustees since 1984. He has most recently served the college as an architect for the $150 million Campaign for See MONEY on page 4

SAIL AWAY
Photo by Amy Laukkanen

Davidson's sailing team took first place in Saturday's regatta, the first home competition for the new team. Second at the Clemson regatta, the Davidson team is now first in the North Points Division of the South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association. Because the top two teams of the district go to the national championship, the Davidson team believes it has a chance to compete at the Coast Guard Academy in Connecticut. Hallam Walker, Davidson's coach from 1966-85, returns from retirement to coach the new team. See story on page 13.

Two spring breaks scheduled in '95
By Mary Clare Jalonick

Next year, the calendar includes an Easter Break and a new exam schedule. The Faculty Executive Committee instituted an Easter break due to a number of complaints from students and faculty. The break will last from Friday after classes through Tuesday, giving students four days off near the end of the spring semester. The break will fall on Monday and Tuesday rather than Thursday and Good Friday. Easter Sunday is a difficult travel day, and the schedule will enable families to spend all day together on Easter, says Dr. Alan Singerman, a member of the committee.

THIS WEEK
First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

However, the addition of an Easter break will not affect the length of Spring Break, which will remain at ten days. Spring Break will be in the first week of March rather than the third week. Singerman claims that an earlier spring break was instituted “to take some fatigue out of the system.” The committee is attempting to shorten the period between Christmas break and Spring Break which students often find unbearably long. In order to compensate for the days lost during the new break, the spring semester will begin on January 16, three days earlier.

Fall exams will now be administered on Sunday in order to push the winter break release dates back one day to December 21. This change was not noted on calendars sent to parents, but they will soon receive the revised version. The exam schedule continues to cause controversy. The Faculty Executive Committee decided to institute Sunday exams as a result of numerous student complaints and SGA petitions. Some students, however, are still not satisfied with the schedule. Gautam Srinivasan, a member of the Educational Policy Committee, is composing a letter to give to the Executive Committee. See Break on page 3

Men's Basketball in the NIT

Last night, coach Bob McKillop received a phone call confirming the extension of the men's basketball season. Davidson will compete in the National Invitational Tournament. 

The Cats will play the West Virginia Mountaineers, number four in the Atlantic-10 conference, at 7:30 p.m., Thursday night in Morgantown at WVU for the first round of the NIT. If Davidson wins, the Cats will play the winner of the Clemson and Southern Mississippi game.

"We're thrilled to have the opportunity to continue our season," McKillop said last night.

Coach Bob McKillop

Course guide book debate
Professors grade students, but should students grade professors?
NEWS

Discrimination in the workplace
Williams offers rebuttal to Barron's laissez-faire stance.
OPINIONS

Dave Matthews
Interview with Dave.
ARTS

Women's Hoops
Leading at the half, Davidson makes Georgia Southern fight to win in the first round of the conference tournament.
SPORTS