La THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1994 9 Kimberly Kreiling Power: Perfected in weakness. Who knows at dawn what
fate the day will bring: is death nearby, or will we find life? In his article last week entitled “Control
and Immortality,” Robert Ramsay raised the topic of human power. He painted vivid images to which I add my own:
Look into the eyes of a young child and see the way he looks back into yours. Play the keys
of a diminished chord and hear the dissonant sounds rolling off the strings. Kiss your friend at the risk of
ruining a friendship, or choose to sacrifice your will only to discover that you love him even more. In fact,
our fate does sometimes lie within our reach. The power of choice is enthralling, yet the person who can master
control over the will is hard to find. As Americans we take great pride in having control and revel in
our freedom until we ourselves are captives under its authority. Are we free or are we slaves to the design
of human life? The paradox we face in consideration of the existence of a sovereign God is that the ability
to reason and dictate vital moves which alter the state of our lives contradicts the excellent and unreachable supreme authority
of the one who created us with free wills. Over time, many people have tried to disprove the power of
God and replace him with their own reason. In the intellectual climate of the late 19th century, scientists were eager
to understand the world and everything in it. Some thinkers, using the tools of science to design a god of
their choice, attempted to become masters of their own destiny. Unitarian followers of the positivist philosopher Auguste Comte, for example,
attempted to fashion out of their own heads a world and religion of universal brotherhood. In another effort to somehow
control even the very nature of the divine, a school of Reductionists reckoned with the theory that people have created
a God who is really “nothing but” a crutch upon which to lean in times of hardship and confusion. Needless
to say, all attempts to control God or even to understand God have failed hopelessly. We know Him only to
the extent that He has revealed Himself to us. We know of His just, loving and all-powerful nature. In what
way, then, is God in complete control if we are given free will? Has He, who is greater than all
time and space, pre-ordained each step we take? Does He wait patiently, observing our moves, and then gently coerce us
at His will? At what point, finally, does His sovereignty meet our ability to make decisions? Make the decision for
yourself. I have no idea how it works. I know that we have a God who is intimately involved with
our decisions, in one way or another. I know that we must obey God, assuming responsibility for the decisions we
do make. Perhaps the first step towards this kind of obedience is taken when we admit that we are incapable
of mastering our own lives and we ask Him to be our God by giving Him the power over ours
— the power, that is, that is already His. Jeff Kent Patterson Court is part of our liberal arts experience.
After reading Geoff Graham’s defense of fraternities in The Davidsonian a few weeks ago, I thought I would add some
points to the argument. As Geoff pointed out, there is growing opposition on the part of the faculty and administration
to Patterson Court. It appears, however, that what agitates our elders goes far deeper than the mere existence of fraternities
and eating houses. Many college officials routinely criticize the Patterson Court houses as an anti-intellectual current steering students away from
their desks and into a bottle of some tasty liquor. It seems to me, however, that the problem lies more
in the behavior and the party mentality than in the actual social organizations themselves. To its critics, Patterson Court exists
primarily as an agent of anti-intellectualism and academic stagnation. I assert, however, that fraternities and eating houses are only a
symbol of the lifestyle that SAT scores, but its well-rounded and interesting qualities. No one would want to attend this
school if it were populated entirely by eggheads with no social skills. Logically then, many of the diverse and personable
students that Davidson desires crave social outlets and places to blow off steam on the weekends. Last time I checked,
Patterson Court provided a pretty good source. If any professors feel that these social outlets will detract from academic ambition
or procreate the dreaded “free-ride” mentality, then they have been misled. Any reasonable human understands that much of life occurs
outside of books. There is more to a liberal arts education than just academics. Davidson did not become such an
impressive place of higher learning by promoting a one-sided approach to education. Social skills (the type that some learn on
Patterson Court) constitute a crucial part of life and should not be Helms is now Chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee. Bob Dole is now the Senate Majority Leader. George Bush Jr. is now Governor of Texas. Newt Gingrich
is now the Speaker of the House of Representatives. Let’s faceHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning
and punctuation:

---

No matter how smart they are, students will want to party - and sometimes even knock back a few cold
ones (note: “cold ones” is crazy frat guy slang for cans of beer). Patterson Court provides a safe area, monitored
by college officials, for students to drink, dance, and relax. Normally, a place like this is something the faculty and
administration find objectionable. Eliminating Patterson Court will not solve any problems because the houses represent a mentality and choice of
behavior among the students. Striking out at these social organizations only serves as a futile attempt to alter a behavior
that is far beyond the administration’s sphere of influence.

A few years ago, when I was a prospective student, I finally decided to attend Davidson because I felt this
would be a good place for me to grow in several ways. Davidson presented an academically challenging atmosphere coupled with
a healthy social life. Compared to equivalent colleges and universities, Davidson was attractive because of the impressive combination of intelligence
and personality in the students. What makes Davidson’s student body so great is not its high academic standards alone but
also its vibrant social life, which should not be ignored.

I am not insinuating that Patterson Court is the only place on campus that provides healthy social interaction for students.
I am not even trying to suggest that Patterson Court is for everyone. However, the Court does furnish an atmosphere
attractive to a large group of students. Since the primary goal of this institution is the benefit and betterment of
the students, I would think the maintenance of such a popular and important element of campus life would be crucial
to those in charge. Practically speaking, the Court provides a safe, regulated environment for students to let down their hair
and escape the pressures of demanding Davidson academics.

I am not saying that the college should condone drinking or partying, but since we all know that it will
occur anyway, why not contain it in a sheltered environment? It would be foolish to disband the Patterson Court organizations
and force activity into more dangerous, off-campus locations. Above all, let’s remember that fraternities have been around a lot longer
than all of us. Somehow, despite the existence of fraternities and Patterson Court, Davidson continues to climb in the world
of national liberal arts colleges. With all of Davidson’s success and achievement in recent years, why sabotage an element of
the Davidson experience that helps attract students and entertains them while they are here?

---

I do not detest the church or religion; in fact, I believe it serves a necessary and important function in
some people’s lives. But, at least in the ultra-oppressive and conservative Presbyterian atmosphere of my childhood (not my home life,
mind you—I mean my church and the affiliated school I attended), sex was unmentionable. Save for my AP English teacher,
most instructors in my high school would not have it brought up in class. “Don’t be seduced by Bathsheba,” every
adult around me seemed to say, “or Judas’ 12 silver pieces are yours.” So, why were the adults saying this?
Look around you, especially in the movies. Films like Natural Born Killers, a violence-fest in which at least 50 people
are slaughtered like Thanksgiving turkeys, receive an R rating, while classy love stories like Jason’s Lyric must sacrifice some artistry
to get the same label. The message: Life is cheap, but sex is trashy.

Benjamin Svetkey’s article “Why Movie Ratings Don’t Work,” in the November 25 issue of Entertainment Weekly, explores this issue more
fully than I can in this space, but the main gist of the article is that the rating board is
more lenient about violence on screen than any form of sex. “You can have as much violence as you want—maim,
torture, kill, whatever,” a studio exec is quoted as saying, “but as soon as you start to show a breast
or some part of the human anatomy, look out!”

In Stephen King’s horror fiction analysis Danse Macabre, King asserts, “Much of the sex in horror fiction is deeply involved
in power tripping; it’s sex based upon relationships where one partner is largely under the control of the other; sex
which almost inevitably leads to some bad end.” Although classified, King’s statement can apply to literature and movies in which
sex is as much of an evil character as the characters themselves. Take Basic Instinct, for example. Sharon Stone’s character
is completely uninhibited in regards to her sex drive, and pursues satisfaction with fervent energy. Therefore, she is not at
all good and is evil. The two sides go hand in hand. Is it any wonder, then, that with so
much negative publicity, sex has a tainted image?

I can provide no solution to this dilemma, except to wonder whether it is a dilemma at all. How exhilarating
it must be, after years of hearing that sex is degenerate, to discover that the opposite is true?
