THE DAVIDSONIAN, MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1994

Poe Lunar Luau to fall during Homecoming
By Beth Bacon

Traditionally, Lunar Luau provides freshmen’s first introduction to Patterson Court houses through the booths each fraternity and eating house displays there. This year, however, the Union-sponsored event takes place the weekend following first night down, after freshmen already will have been exposed to the court. Lunar Luau is set for Friday, September 23, from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m.

David Rozelle, social chair of SAE, says, “It’s unfortunate that Lunar Luau fell on Homecoming weekend this year because it doesn’t allow freshmen to get an unbiased look at Patterson Court before they’re able to come down.” Because Lunar Luau will be during Homecoming weekend, there is the fear that the houses won’t have enough time to put together quality booths. To remedy this problem, several of the houses plan to join together with one another in order to present themselves to freshmen.

“Patterson Court looks forward to working together to present itself as Patterson Court, at the same time showing each individual house,” Rozelle says. The date was chosen because historically, Lunar Luau is preceded with a pep rally for the first home football game. This year, Homecoming happened to fall on the first home football game. When Rosie Molinary, Union Board Social Vice President, confronted the Athletic Department about changing the date, “they were really disappointed.” All things considered, Molinary thinks Lunar Luau should remain on the same date in the future. “You can’t divorce a tradition that is founded in so much emotion,” she says.

Freshmen welcomed to Patterson Court last Friday
By Susan Warren

On Friday, freshmen were welcomed onto court with a number of parties. The afternoon began with a revival of the 3:01 Club. Both Rusk and SAE had Friday Afternoon Clubs, with SAE sponsoring a reggae band. Freshmen were well represented on the court, mostly coming down in large groups from their halls. Friday night consisted of a band party at PiKA, a country music band at Kappa Sig, a video-DJ party at Phi Delt, and parties at KA and Sig Ep. Freshmen were excited to be down on the court after two weeks of waiting. All freshmen had meetings with their hall counselors earlier in the week concerning first night down. Hall counselors were “on duty” throughout the evening, with one hall counselor on each hall and one on the court.

One freshman girl said about the evening: “I had an awesome time, I was sober [due to soccer] so I now know in any kind of condition I can have a good time.” This was the freshmen’s “first” social interaction with upperclassmen on campus. Most freshmen were pleased with the “laid-back” atmosphere of the court and are excited about the rest of their first year at Davidson.

NEWS Photo by Brooke McRae

This year’s first Women’s Issues meeting was the best-attended ever. Held on Tuesday night, the committee's meeting intended to plan for the year’s programming.

Rudell continues quest for basketball courts
Back up site: field behind Martin F
By Jay Jennings

The outdoor basketball court issue will continue this week in Tuesday’s SGA meeting, but with a new variable. The SGA will not only vote on the proposed location at the parking lot above the tennis courts, but also on anew site behind the new senior apartments. The new site would not take away any parking, which might reduce some student opposition to the courts. The court would be located in the grass area between Martin Court building F and the soccer practice field. Potential problems with this location are that the court would not be as centrally located as the tennis court parking lot and that the noise might disturb some residents. Despite the fact that the proposed location is near the senior apartments, Senior Class President B.J. Rudell hopes the courts would be used by all classes. Rudell has not decided whether to suggest only one or both of the proposed sites at this week’s SGA meeting. He hopes to hear student opinions on the issue before he decides, because he “represents the students.” Erik McMichael, a resident in the new apartment building, says the new site would be a good location and that the noise “would not cause any more of a problem than music.” Students are urged again to express opinions to their representatives before Tuesday’s SGA meeting.

Homecoming Queen Elections Wednesday, Union and Chambers

Kuykendall speculates about what improved our rating

Why not 7? from page 1

The report considers the ratio of full-time students to full-time faculty, the percentage of full-time faculty with doctorates, the percentage of part-time faculty, the average salary of a full-time faculty member, and finally a class size measured by the proportion of classes with fewer than 20 students as compared with the proportion that had 50 or more students.

What changes improved Davidson’s ranking? Director of Institutional Research Dr. John Kelton emphasizes that Davidson has made significant efforts to improve the quality of faculty resources. Davidson has avoided hiring part-time faculty and according to Kelton, the student/faculty ratio remains “on the low side of 12 to 1, more like 11.6 to 1.”

Do the rankings affect admissions? Cable Wells does not consider the rankings to be the central decisive factor for people applying to Davidson, though she acknowledges that they are one consideration. “A combination of factors, including selectivity and quality, are all significant when one takes a look at a quality school,” says Cable Wells.

Where do other schools stand? Though Washington & Lee is geographically Davidson’s closest Southern liberal arts competitor at #15, Cable Wells cites the greatest competition as coming from universities such as Duke, Chapel Hill, and the University of Virginia. Northeastern schools provide competition, drawing from a similar applicant pool.

SGA President Eric Rosenbach is pleased by the results of the survey: “It’s exciting to see Davidson get the recognition it deserves. From now on it seems that we can only build on the reputation of the institution and improve even more.” In general, the Davidson community is taking the news of the top ten ranking casually. Kuykendall remarks that Davidson has never been drastically affected by the rankings: “It’s nice to have others speak well of you, but nicer to just continue doing your job.”

ANNOUNCING
Street Books
DAVIDSON
Available for $20.00 at Main Street Books, Davidson
126 S. Main Street

COMING EVENTS
Amelia Dockery will sign copies of her new book on September 20th from 5-7 pm
The republication of the book, DAVIDSON: A History of the Town by Mary D. Beaty
704-892-6841