4 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, AUGUST 29, 1994

Cambridge students discover England
By Laura Jefferson

If you happen to bump into twenty-one Davidson students and one English professor speaking with a slight British accent, you have found the 1994 Cambridge Summer Program participants. This summer, students from Davidson invaded Cambridge University Campus to study 18th century British literature and history. Dr. Vivien Dietz coordinated the 14th annual trip to England with the help of professor in residence Dr. Elizabeth Mills. For six weeks, DC students attended lectures discussing such topics as William Blake, the Industrial Revolution, the Gothic Revival, and 18th century insects. Aside from lectures, students attended tutorials twice a week to debate topics discussed in lectures and also wrote several papers.

However, DC students were able to escape Cambridge University academics with free weekends and one full week of vacation in the middle of the program. By the end of the six weeks, students and professor had ventured to most areas of England and Scotland. A select few even made it to Ireland. From afternoon tea at the Bath Pump House to punting down the Cam River to a little bird on William Wordsworth’s grave to the crown jewels to the King’s College Evensong to extensive “pub-crawling” at such local dives as The Castle Inn, the Davidson group saw and did it all.

Participant Lexy DeVane says, “My two fondest memories of the Cambridge Program will always be horseback riding up Mt. Snowden in Wales and running into the National Star Trek Convention in Glasgow. I also enjoyed a good night’s sleep and met countless new friends in a variety of deluxe youth hostels.”

The 1994 Cambridge Summer Program participants included Bo Bartholomew, Cynthia Luckey, Ashlyn Dannelly, Julie Dawson, Malloy Evans, Jay Stillwell, Todd Cabell, Emily Davis, Anne McKinney, Jenny Reinoehl, Dave Thompson, Laura Jefferson, Mary Laura Moretz, Susan Warren, Kelly Hobson, Grace Hill, Martina Love, Jenn Ray, Tracy French, Geoff Love, and Lexy DeVane.

Bonner Scholars serve globally
By Lisa Lyons

Tonya Harding is not the only one who did newsworthy community service this summer. Davidson’s Bonner Scholars volunteered more than 15,000 hours in cities, towns, and villages across the globe. Unlike ex-Olympian Harding, Bonner Scholars do service work in lieu of Work Study during the academic year, and donate additional time during the summer.

In the past three months, Bonner Scholars volunteered at a variety of hospitals, schools, camps, and churches around the world—such as working at Davidson’s Love of Learning, in the backwoods of Maine, or on a ranch in Honduras.

Junior Tasha Jenkins interned at the Center for Urban Missions in Alabama. “Birmingham, 35201 is not the title of a TV series; it’s one of the poorest areas in the country.” Rather than attend summer school or work in a law firm, Jenkins taught photography classes as well as leadership development to inner-city youth. “If I had done it for credit or a paycheck, it just wouldn’t have been the same. The director of the program is a Davidson alum and former lawyer who is now involved with child advocacy. This is an area that I’m really interested in, and he was a great inspiration. I couldn’t have gotten this type of experience anywhere else.”

In addition to participating in various individual projects, a group of Bonners traveled to Puerto Rico for a student-initiated service project. Fifteen Bonner Scholars worked in Camuy, painting murals, promoting a cleaner environment, and playing with kids in anorphanage. Second-year Bonner Josh Gaffga says he would not hesitate to go back. “It was the greatest experience. The kids really looked up to us. Even though I don’t speak a lick of Spanish, I had a real special time. I know we made those kids happy.” The summer was full of similar highlights for many Bonners. As the inaugural Bonner class begins its senior year, the number of Bonner Scholars on campus has swelled from 25 to 83. Welcome to all the new Bonners and to Katherine Cooke ’93, the program’s new coordinator. Soon the Bonner Scholars will begin working in the community; you can, too. Mark your calendars for the Volunteer Fair, September 7 from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. in the Gallery. Get involved—you will not be able to pick up Life Experience 101 at drop/add this week.

By Emily K. Crowder

On May 25, 1994, Dr. Luis Pena and 14 Davidson students boarded an airplane headed for Guadalajara, Mexico. The group studied Spanish for seven weeks and traveled in Mexico. Students took two classes taught by either Dr. Pena or a Guadalajaran woman. Outside of class time, students met one-on-one with college-age students to see the lifestyle and culture of Mexico and to practice Spanish. Courses ranged from intermediate Spanish to politics as seen through the media. Assignments and workload depended on the class taken; some students had to keep a daily journal in Spanish and write compositions every week.

Classifieds

IBM PS/2 Model 50 with monochrome display and proprinter for sale. $375 or best offer. Call Scott Hile -2149

CHILDCARE

Need responsible person to care for 2 children, 3 afternoons per week. 2:30 to 6:30 in Davidson. Call Lynn Jeffords 896-8826.

SPRING BREAK '95- SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!!! Student Travel Services is now hiring campus representatives. Lowest rates to Jamaica, Cancun, Daytona, and Panama City Beach. Call 1-800-648-4849.

Davidson program ex

Students also lived with a family while in Guadalajara. This arrangement allowed the students to learn aspects of a foreign culture not taught in a classroom. Participant Linn Allison ’95 says “it was a great, unique experience, quite a change from growing up in a rural Virginia town.” On weekends the program took excursions both in Guadalajara and in other locations around the country. The first weekend they visited Tlaquepaque, a small town outside of Guadalajara, and then traveled to a ranch outside of the city to relax and enjoy the equivalent of a mountain home in the States. Three weeks into the program, the group took an eight-hour bus ride to Mexico City, the largest city in the world. While there, they saw the ancient pyramids of Teotihuacan and the grand Aztec pyramid in the center of the city. Other day trips from Mexico City included Cuernavaca and Taxco, the silver mining capital of the country. After recovering from their week trip to Mexico City, the group took a weekend to go to Guanajuato; naturally preserved mummies provide the main attraction of the mining town, which is also the birthplace of artist/muralist Diego Rivera. They also saw a ghost town, the grave of a famous mariachi Jimenez (the equivalent in fame and “cult status” of Elvis), and San Miguel de Allende, a tiny town filled with artists and tourists. After classes ended, the program celebrated in beautiful Puerto Vallarta. Rumor has it that Pena went to a disco. Aside from a few problems, the trip was a success.

WELCOME HOME!

Hootie at Bat
Widespread on Deck
Dave in the Hole

100s of New and Used CDs at Discount Prices!
Lakeshore Market Place: 896-7882