LEIGH RAWDON - Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Executive Editor
MANDY CURTIS - Managing Editor

The Davidsonian

KATHERINE HASH - News Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY - Ass't News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY - Opinions Editor
JOSH LARNED - Arts Editor
SCOTT MCLEAN - Ass't Arts Editor
WILL COBB - Sports Editor
AMY LAUKKANEN - Photography Editor
ARTHUR GASTON - Copy Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES - Ass't Advertising Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN - Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD - Circulation Manager

Give us a bid.

This weekend the men’s basketball team lost a heartbreaker in the finals of the Southern Conference tournament. In the end,
we had our chances, but the shots just wouldn’t fall. But amid the sorrow of losing a championship, Davidson players
and fans alike walked away having gained something. For the second time in two years, Davidson sports went national, and,
for a few glorious moments, we all shot every three-pointer and felt every foul right along with the team.

Let us not forget whom to thank for getting us there. Over the last twelve months, the coaches and players
have made a commitment to succeed and aimed to capture the Southern Conference bid to the NCAA tournament. Hard work
paid off as Davidson won 20 regular season games for the first time in 25 years. Coach Bob McKillop was
named Coach of the Year, and Janko Narat and Brandon Williams were both selected to the All-Conference and All-Tournament teams.

Over the course of the season, Davidson students and faculty gradually could not stop talking about “our team.” The look
of devastation in the fans’ eyes Sunday night shows how much we have grown to love this team. We want
them to win not just for ourselves, but for people like Coach McKillop and seniors Janko Narat and Jason Zimmerman
who have been through the tough times.

The NCAA selection committee has never sent two Southern Conference teams to the “Big Dance,” the NCAA Tournament, but if
there ever was a time, it ought to be now. With a 22-7 record and decisive victories over ACC and
Metro teams, despite being the smallest Division I school in America, we deserve to be considered seriously for an at-large
bid. The players and coaches have worked so hard all season long. We know the season is not over. Let’s
savor the victories our team has given us and hope our next game is in the NCAAs.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to:
The Davidsonian
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036.
Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.

The Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to
edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Offices are located on the third floor of the
Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held
by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Where will the poor get an oven?

To the editors,

I was utterly incensed when reading Bill Gullan’s painfully callous and clearly misinformed response to Kim Kreiling’s article in the
previous issue. It is not my intention to defend Kreiling’s position that our country must institute a broad system of
socialized housing as a simple and definitive solution to the problem of homelessness. While homelessness is, in its narrowest definition,
a lack of housing, it is the result of myriad social problems which would not be eradicated by a subsidized
apartment. On this point, I find myself reluctantly allied with Gullan.

However, Gullan’s ignorance as to the nature of the problem and the realities of poverty are a far greater concern
than any disagreement with Kreiling’s approach. Gullan cries, “...why complain about the gap? Why, if both extremes are benefiting, is
this situation intolerable?” Is he suggesting that there is someAdvantage to being destitute? How is this possible? Gullan later asserts
that as long as the guy playing the saxophone in the subway makes a few bucks a day, which apparently
constitutes progress for Gullan, we need not worry, much less complain, about the incredible gap between the rich and the
poor. What Gullan has failed to understand is that the frightening aspect of this disparity is neither its magnitude nor
even the fact that such a difference exists. Rather, it is the miserable condition in which some individuals in this
country exist, a level which is deplorable regardless of its relationship to the wealth of others. True, many Americans find
their fellow citizens' spending appalling, yet it is not their opulence but the knowledge that there are some who are
absolutely unable to meet their basic needs that is ultimately so disturbing.

In the course of his last two articles, Gullan has called for the government to stop interfering in the affairs
of its citizens and cites public education and transportation as examples of government inefficiency and incompetence. Perhaps Gullan would prefer
to abandon all public assistance and institutions in order to be free of that “New American Slavery” called government? Think
of it... we could discontinue federal aid to college students, leave everyone to their respective saxophones and mutual funds to
earn their educational dollars, and in the end, everyone would get only what they paid for. Isn't that justice according
to Gullan? More importantly, the federal government would not make Gullan pay for things that do not benefit him.

Perhaps I have misconstrued Gullan’s article for my own purposes. If that is the case, my only retort is that
Gullan takes a similar journalistic “privilege” in his article. His outrageous example of Homeless Joe moving from his cardboard box
to a Beverly Hills mansion flatly ignores Kreiling’s statement that her proposed subsidies would “always” be limited. Gullan further reveals
a lack of comprehension in his statement that a homeless person would not be in such a position if they
had a job. Have you ever attempted to get a job without your respectable clothes, a full meal in your
tummy, a clean shave, and a permanent address? Most reprehensibly, he refers to homeless people as “untrained and thus far
unsuccessful” individuals. Where does he think homeless people come from? Are they born so? It is my understanding that a
significant number of homeless people were once gainfully employed, hence trained and at least somewhat successful, when a series of
misfortunes, which may or may not have been their fault, caused a drastic change in their position. Whatever the circumstances
leading up to a person’s homelessness, without some sort of aid from either public or private sources, be it in
the form of employment, housing, food, health care, clothing, or some other benefit, how can anyone reverse their situation?

While Gullan clearly never expects to be in need of federal assistance himself, one would think he would have taken
the time to step outside his comfortable existence to examine the situation a bit more extensively before writing his little
diatribe. In his attempt to tap into the reader’s patriotism, Gullan alludes to the idealistic notion of American society as
a meritocracy, implying that we have already achieved this goal and equal opportunity is guaranteed for all. Does he honestly
believe everyone in this country starts out on the same footing, completely unaffected by their family’s financial and social situation,
their race, their religion, and their gender? Surely he could not be so naive.

Gullan closes with an attempt at quotability with the words: “We need not give the poor bread, but teach them
to bake.” What I want to know is where are they going to get the oven?

Sincerely,
Caroline Carpenter, '96
The Davitsonian

Subscribe for the spring semester at only $15.
