2

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1994

Science buildings to be renovated

By Meg Wolff

With recent news that the sciences will receive $5 to 7 million from the Campaign for Davidson, majors may not
have to wait much longer for updated and expanded facilities. The money has been specifically earmarked for a life sciences
addition to Dana Science building and renovation of both research and teaching labs.

In a recent letter to alumni, President John Kuykendall describes the need for updated science facilities as great: “So limited
is space that Davidson faculty and students are holding laboratory classes and lectures in the attic of Dana.” The letter
also states that “none of the biology or neuroscience research laboratories is configured as a modern research lab must be.”
Kuykendall says that “Davidson’s well-deserved reputation for excellence in the sciences and pre-medicine is threatened by profoundly outdated and cramped
facilities poorly suited to the pursuit of modern research.” The expansion of Dana Science building is slated to begin as
soon as the needed money is raised.

With a goal of $150 million, the Campaign for Davidson has raised $142 million in gifts and pledges so far,
an entire year before the Campaign is scheduled to end. Campaign funds have already gone towards such improvements as endowed
professorships, new named scholarships, the Visual Arts Center, and the new residence hall.

Biology Chair Verna Case is enthusiastic about the plans: “It’s a great first step in addressing the science facility needs
at Davidson.”

Build your resume as a news writer. Call Ashlyn -2148.

ACCELERATED LEARNING PROGRAM
October 3

Monday Evening:
CHAMBERS 125

IMPROVING the BALANCE:
Between ACADEMICS and SOCIAL ACTIVITIES
"Avoiding Excesses in Either Direction"

All students are invited to attend

Speaker:
Dr. Will Terry, Dean Emeritus

Co-sponsors:
Warner
Office of the Dean of Faculty
Office of the Dean of Students

7:00 - 8:15 p.m.

WHEN THE
CHECK FROM
DAD IS A LITTLE

When you need to stretch your food budget, let Papa John’s pizza help out. Use the coupons below to enjoy
some great pizza values. PLUS, you always get Papa John’s special garlic sauce and pepperoncinis at no extra cost! So
if the only thing you can find in your pocket is lint, it’s definitely time to get Papa John’s on
the phone.

Lake Norman
Norman Square Shopping Center

Add a Six Pack of Coca-Cola classic for $2.00

“Party Pak”
Four 14" Pizzas
One Topping

$19.99

FIVE YEARS AGO...

Photo courtesy of College Relations
On September 23, 1989, President John Kuykendall begins to clean up Davidson after it was hit hard by the violent
winds and torrential rains of Hurricane Hugo. Five years later, Hugo is simply a distant memory, with all damages caused
by that time now completely cleaned up thanks to efforts by individuals like President Kuykendall. In fact, the college was
hit so hard by the hurricane that The Davidsonian was unable to print for three consecutive weeks. Whatever did Davidson
College students do without The Davidsonian?!?

SGA ad hoc committee studies honor code

Review continued from page 1

Code more stringent, or publicizing the results of actual trials. Also, the SGA agrees that the Honor Council should be
viewed as a more punitive body.

Kappa Sig Senator Alex Crumbley states, “For people to respect it, they have to be afraid of it.” Other senators
agree that students take the Honor Code for granted and should be made more aware of the benefits derived from
the system, such as closed trials, take-home reviews, and self-scheduled examinations.

Arthur Gaston, Chairman of the Honor Council, who will co-chair the committee with Buford, said, “I firmly support the SGA’s
ad hoc committee. I’m glad that the SGA has taken the initiative to look into such an important aspect of
our community, and I look forward to working with Warren in the next few weeks.”

Buford says that since Tuesday’s SGA meeting, several students have expressed an interest in being on the committee. Though the
committee itself will most likely be composed of only ten to 15 students, Buford encourages students to speak freely with
any SGA representative. Buford hopes to encourage student forums and debates on the various aspects of the Honor Code.

“We don’t plan on keeping this quiet,” says Buford. “We want to promote as much discussion and debate on the
Honor Code as we can, just really go and find out what people think.”

Do you know your Honor Council representatives?

Arthur Gaston—Chairperson
Anna Gray Anderson—Secretary
Lorie Logan/ Matt Hunoval—Defense Advisors
Sean Callahan/ Jay Jennings—Student Solicitors
Seniors: Alexis West, Sarah Orsbon, John Philpott, Casey Rogers, Josh Rogers, Laurie Self, Rachel Worlds, Phoebe Dean, Allison Woodward
Juniors: J.D. Dupuy, Samantha Hodges, Philip Ewing
Lillian Montgomery, Ed White, Lexy DeVane, Justin Verm, Marc LaFrance, Chris Knox
Jason Byassee, Karl Ruch
Sophomores: Ann Hatfield, Allen Marshall, Macon Stokes, Katie Brasfield, Ashley Gribble, Nelson Chandler, Jeremy Chason

*Seniors vote for three new members Monday and Tuesday.
