THE DAVIDSONIAN

Connor loses TV, VCR, and stereo to theft
By Jay Jennings

Connor House got off to a rocky start this year when its members discovered that four pieces of electronic equipment
had been stolen. The crime took place between May 18 and August 28. Patterson Court Advisor Kurt Holmes and Zone
Maintenance Supervisor David Holthouser went around to all of the houses on Patterson Court on May 18th for final inspection
and to lock up each house. The Connor officers then turned the keys over to the school. However, the house
did not stay locked up because repairs needed to be made.

When Stephanie Davis, Connor house manager, opened up the house for the semester, she realized someone had been in the
house after finding “cigarette butts and beer cans” in the house. After further searching the house, Davis realized that a
TV, VCR, and two stereo components had been stolen. Holmes recommends that Patterson Court houses do not store valuables in
the houses over the summer because the college cannot control everyone who goes into them. The college is responsible for
damage to the actual house but not for the things inside it. Connor had used storage the previous two summers
because they had been changing houses; they mistakenly thought that the equipment would be safe in their new location.

Survey to study quality of campus health care
By Beth Bacon

“How would you rate the quality of care in the Student Health Center? How would you rate the friendliness and
compassion of the Student Health Center staff? Do you believe that the Student Health Center serves Davidson students adequately?” These
questions are part of a survey recently distributed to seniors by Senior Class President B.J. Rudell. Rudell decided to pursue
the issue after several students complained to him about the care they had received at the Student Health Center.

After collecting approximately one-third of the surveys distributed, Rudell has come to the conclusion that enough students have experienced inadequate
treatment for him to take further action. Of the one-third of seniors who responded, Rudell says “a number of people
have given low marks in the area of quality ... enough that I’m going to move forward.” Because the Student
Health Center employs only one physician who is on call once a week, Davidson students are often diagnosed and treated
by the physician’s assistants who work at the Center. Rudell intends to write a letter to Dean Shandley with the
hopes that Davidson College can supply the Student Health Center with more funding. This increased funding could lead to the
hiring of more physicians, which would lead to fewer misdiagnoses and improved treatment and care of Davidson students. “My aim
is not to fix what is not broken,” Rudell says, “but an inadequate infirmary is not acceptable.”

Davidson welcomed many new faculty members who were selected after a competitive process. Included in the group are visiting professors
as well as full-time faculty members.

Faculty welcomes twenty-one new professors
By Jeff Fuller

From Davidson’s first regular Japanese professor to new assistant professors in numerous departments, the halls of Davidson are crowded with
the faces of twenty-one new faculty members. The new faculty were selected from pools of hundreds of applicants for each
position who learned about the open positions through nationwide advertisements. After applications are sent in, a screening process takes place
where paperwork and files are reviewed. Then the list is narrowed down, and 10 to 20 interviews are conducted. From
those interviews, three candidates for the position are selected to come to the Davidson campus and meet with Dean of
Faculty Robert Williams and the department chairs. After a final selection is made, the job is offered by President Kuykendall.are
recognized by all. Holmes says, “The college could have done it, but it personalizes it if the house itself does
it.” Howdie Coonley, a junior member of KA, says, “I didn’t agree with the penalty at first because I couldn’t
believe that the house was dirty enough to warrant being shut down. But when we were in there cleaning, I
noticed, and I think everyone else began to realize that it really was pretty disgusting.” Troiano says, “The house really
came together - you could tell people realized it had been slack last year. There was no complaining at the
house clean-up. We take responsibility for the filth and know that we need to maintain the house better this year.
As of right now, KA has got to be the cleanest house on the court.”

Visiting Professor of Economics David P. Richardson says that he had to teach a class to the faculty as a
part of his interview process. He said it was a “unique experience trying to teach economics to a bunch of
Ph.Ds.” Williams cites “excellence in teaching” as the primary criteria he uses to offer someone a job on the Davidson
faculty. He also considers familiarity with liberal arts colleges, experience, professional activity (research and publication), and interest in service to
others. “It’s a great group,” says Williams regarding the new faculty. “I think they’re all very excited about being here.”
Williams adds that among the new group he has noticed “a real commitment to teaching at a liberal arts college.”
New faculty must undergo orientation, which includes instruction about the honor system. Mentors are also assigned to each of the
new faculty members.

B. Richard Page '83, Visiting Professor of German, says he notices that “a lot of things have changed and a
lot of things haven’t” since he was a student at Davidson. He enjoys the ever-present friendly atmosphere and interaction between
professors and students.

Self-study to follow accreditation rules

Review continued from page 1

The education committee will look at topics such as sciences and how to teach them within a liberal arts curriculum.
The undergraduate experience committee will investigate all aspects of student life beyond the classroom. Information and technology will look at
the opportunities available with the new information highway, athletics will review Davidson’s steadily increasing sports program, and financial management will
find where the school obtains the money to operate. Committee chairs include Dr. Elizabeth Mills, Dr. Ben Klein, Dr. Rosemary
Zumwalt, Dr. John Heil, Dr. Thomas Kazee, and Dr. Vickram Kumar. The committees have only begun working and are presently
gathering information and setting up preliminary reports. Though they haven’t been working for long, Dr. Mills applauds the participants: “It’s
very time consuming. The best thing for me is the people that are giving up their time to help us.”

Nelson, who now teaches only one class per day, was given this job by presidential appointment. He looks forward to
“understanding the synergy of the college in a way I never have before.” He stresses that he is at the
disposal of any student or student organization that wants to talk with him. The self-study office, located in Jackson Court,
will soon be holding open houses for students. Kelton says that he is pleased with the program as it enables
the school to further its own long-term planning while going through the process of traditional reaccreditation review. Dean of Students
Tom Shandley, co-chair of the undergraduate experience committee, is also excited about the uniqueness of the study: “What this is
for us is the opportunity for us to design a study that focuses on our needs as a university.”

Summers in Africa

Africa continued from page 1

Davidson has always promoted international experiences, “it is important to diversify the options available to students.” Eaves urges students to
participate: “It is important for people to understand that all of Africa is not starvation and chaos... West Africa is
more developed than people think.”
