THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Scholarships keep athletics competitive

By Carrie Blackburn

Davidson’s efforts to recruit top-quality athletes are hampered by the fact that only men’s basketball players and a few women
athletes are offered full scholarships. The college funds 22 full athletic scholarships; 13 go to men’s basketball, and the remaining
9 are apportioned among the women’s sports.

Because the college will not increase the proportion of the financial aid budget designated for athletic scholarships, funds to support
additional, partial athletic scholarships are solicited from outside sources. The Davidson Athletic Foundation (DAF) raises money through the Wildcat Club
to fund all the additional athletic grants. The foundation relies solely on donations, mostly from alumni, because all revenue generated
from ticket sales goes toward general upkeep. Through fund-raisers, the DAF establishes endowments to support partial scholarships for various sports.

In order to entice recruits for sports other than basketball, the DAF has made its “new mission to raise money
for the support of other athletic scholarships,” says Sterling Martin, Director of Intercollegiate Programs. According to Martin, the athletic program’s
goal is 20 men’s and 20 women’s scholarships, in addition to the basketball scholarships which already exist.

In the mid-70s, the Board of Trustees decided to funnel all funds for athletic scholarships into one sport “because we
want basketball to achieve regional and national success,” says Martin. The athletic department has since reallocated some of its resources
away from men's basketball towards women’s sports.

Under the mandate of Title 9, part of a federal equal rights act, the NCAA adopted a policy of gender
equity. On the college level, this policy translates into more opportunities for women in sports. Interpreting Title 9 is often
confusing because with sports like football, a literal equivalent for women is impractical and undesirable. According to Director of Athletics
Terry Holland, schools are encouraged to “measure the desires of women students” and meet their needs.

Most schools meet the NCAA’s minimum standards of gender equity by apportioning their athletic budget between men’s and women’s sports
based on the relative number of male and female athletes. Davidson, however, bases their apportionment on the percentage of men
and women in the entire student body. Holland explains, “You cannot know if stu-

See Sports on page 17

Dean of Students announced

Dean continued from page 1

faculty outside of class. However, he recognizes that this problem is common on many campuses.

Although the Rhodes and Davidson campuses are similar in size, Shandley perceives a significant difference between the two. With a
population of one million, Memphis offers many opportunities and services that Davidson’s 4000-person community cannot provide. Instead, the college itself
must be self-sufficient, offering social options and counseling services.

Shandley sees “a need to broaden the type of social activities that happen at Davidson.” He is excited about being
involved in planning for a new college union. Students involved in the nine-month selection process are confident in Shandley’s abilities.
After talking with Shandley during a campus visit, sophomore Ashley Tabb saysthat “he seemed really personable, continuing the qualities and
policies of Dean Terry.” Tabb also feels that Shandley’s experience with alcohol policies and Greek systems will benefit him in
his transition to Davidson. Shandley has served since 1988 at Rhodes College, where he launched campus programs directed toward leadership
development and multiculturalism. Shandley also personalized orientation activities and helped design the Campus Life Center. Rhodes students honored Shandley by
electing him to Omicron Delta Kappa, the national leadership fraternity. Shandley attained degrees at Simpson College, Bowling Green State University,
and the University of Minnesota where he completed his Ph.D. studies in Higher Education. Previously, Shandley held positions at the
Universities of Minnesota and South Carolina. He also made a brief appearance in the 1993 film The Firm.

MONDAY, APRIL 25, 1994

ALUMNI WEEKEND

Photo by Amy Laukkanen

Graduates from the classes of '49, '50, '54, '59, '69, and '74 returned to reminisce with old friends and to
check out the changes at their alma mater. More than 500 alumni came to campus.

College moves on with new Statement of Purpose

1990s continued from page 1

Statement demonstrate that the ideals of the Christian faith are not incompatible with those of inclusiveness. He stresses that the
adoption of the changes does not attempt to lower Davidson’s moral standards, but rather, incorporates often excluded groups to make
the Statement more representative of the college community.

In the fall of 1992, Craig Wall, Chairman of the Board of the Trustees, decided to appoint a committee to
study the Statement of Purpose after members of the faculty and many others expressed their belief that changes needed to
be made. After careful research, the committee submitted a proposal for review. The SGA then drew up a possible revision,
which the committee considered before submitting its final draft to the Board.

Agnes Sentelle Brown Award
Omicron Delta Kappa
Goodwin-Exxon Award
George Gladstone Memorial Award
Omicron Delta Kappa Teaching Award
Dr. John Gill Holland

Class of ‘94: Greg Fisher, Heather Flint, Bailey Foster, Sarah Hollingsworth Orsbon, Elizabeth Elayne Fleming, Myles Louria, Margaret Murphey, Lee
Pennington, Keri Slater;
Class of ‘95: Phoebe Dean, Chris Hood, Carolyn Meadows, Sarah Orsbon, Josh Rogers, Laurie Self

Dean Will Terry

JUST IN TIME FOR EXAM WEEK: STUDENT CRAM BAGS!

Send your student an exam survival kit! Each bag includes appropriate nourishment for long hours of study. Your student will
stay awake and study better with a variety of spritzers, spreads, snacks, and "What's Cookies?!" in a What's Cooking? canvas
tote. Call ahead and make exam week at Davidson more rewarding. Bags start at $24.95. (Includes Davidson area delivery, Master
Card & Visa accepted.)

The Davidsonian

KATHERINE HASH - News Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY - Assistant News Editor
CARRIE BLACKBURN - Special Assignments

Staff Writers: Court McBryde, Brett Marston, Jay Jennings, Martha Knight, Wendy Lee, Mary Clare Jalonick, Lexy Devane, Ross Sloop, Towner
Blackstock, Phoebe Dean, Beth Lindsay, Mary Laura Moretz, Jeff Kent, Jeff Fuller

GOURMET TO GO
DINE IN - TAKE OUT

THE CHAIR FACTORY @ CORNELIUS
Hours: T-Th. 11-7; F, 11-4; Sat. 10-3

BRUNCHETTE
