16 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1994

SPORTS

Women’s soccer wins close one over Louisville

By John Whitcomb

Coming into the game versus Louisville, the Davidson women’s soccer team was 3-9-1 and looking for a win to bolster
their season record. Facing a tough Louisville squad did not seem like the way to get a win. However, the
Wildcats played tight defense the entire game and defeated the Cardinals 1-0.

Early in the first half, Claudia Lombard put a shot past the Louisville keeper for her eighth goal of the
season, and the Wildcats took a 1-0 lead. In the second half, though, the Wildcats really turned it on. Instead
of playing conservatively with the lead, they aggressively sought and obtained many more scoring opportunities. Kelly Amman played well despite
landing on her head after crashing into the Louisville goalkeeper early in the second half. Both Amman and Lombard had
some excellent scoring opportunities in the second half, but some tough bounces did not let the Wildcats put the game
away.

Late in the game, after the Louisville players were worn out, several shots were taken by the ‘Cats in desperation.
However, the Wildcats remained composed and held on for the win. The ‘Cats will have to face a tough NC
State squad on the road Wednesday before returning to Southern Conference action next Sunday when they face Georgia Southern here
at 3 p.m.

Southern Conference Preseason Basketball Polls

Men

Northern Division
1. Davidson
2. ETSU
3. Marshall
4. Appalachian State
5. VMI

Southern Division
1. Tenn.-Chattanooga
2. Georgia Southern
3. Western Carolina
4. Furman
5. The Citadel

Women
1. Georgia Southern
2. Appalachian State
3. ETSU
4. Furman
5. Marshall
6. Tenn.-Chattanooga
7. Davidson
8. Western Carolina

Sailing first in north div., qualifies for district meet

By Andrew Cole

Davidson’s sailing team is headed to the South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association District Championship at Eckerd after taking first place
in the North division of the SAISA, the first time in several years that the College of Charleston has not
taken the crown.

Over the three regattas that determine the rankings, Davidson took first place in the first two and fourth in the
last for a total of six points. Clemson scored a first, second, and fourth for second place with seven points,
and the College of Charleston was third with two seconds and a fourth for eight points. The Citadel grabbed the
fourth and final spot at the championships.

At Eckerd in St. Petersburg, Florida, the four North teams will race against the top four teams from the South
Division: Eckerd, Florida, Rollins, and South Florida. The top two teams in the championship qualify for the Atlantic Coast Championship
at St. Mary’s in Maryland.

The next regatta for Davidson will be at MIT on Oct. 29 and 30, where Davidson will race for the
Schell Trophy. This will be the toughest competition the team has faced yet, as Davidson could be the only unranked
team in a field of ranked teams. This weekend, Davidson hosted the SAISA Fall Women’s Championship. Charleston, ranked third nationally,
won handily in tough conditions. Florida was second, followed by Eckerd and Clemson. The top women’s teams are now headed
for the Women’s Atlantic Coast Championship.

Rugby wins wild contest behind Ackerman

By Warren Buford

The Davidson Rugby Club came out on top in two rugby contests against Appalachian State on Saturday. Davidson played the
first half with a great deal of intensity, with forwards Chris Smith, Mike Ingram, and Mike Kessler bulldozing the opposing
scrum to set the pace.

The tough play of the forwards got the ball into the hands of scrum half David Derrick, who managed to
distribute the ball to the backs under high pressure from the Mountaineers.

Controversy erupted when Pete Scholze took a pass, ran diagonally for the corner of the tri-zone, and beat several ASU
players for an apparent score. The linesman, who may not have told the truth, called Scholze out of bounds and
disallowed the try. Play had to be stopped minutes later when an Appalachian player suffered a compound fracture, stopping play
for 30 minutes.

In the second half, Tom Shelburne came out hitting hard and intimidated the opposing side with tough defense. Davidson maintained
strong possession and pushed upfield with experienced Simon Priestley’s accurate kicking. Despite tough play across the board, Davidson did not
manage to score by the end of regulation.

Just minutes into sudden death overtime, however, freshman Hank Ackerman took a pass from Frank Killian and surged 20 yards
into the tri-zone. Ackerman’s game-winning run was a climactic finish to a long, hard-fought match.

Davidson dominated the second game, winning off of a penalty kick courtesy of Simon Priestley. Brian Blythe played well in
the scrum and Scott Burkhardt’s running was key in the backfield. Strong defense shut out Appalachian State once again, rendering
them scoreless and winless for the day.

Write for Sports. Call Will -2148.

EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY!
$7.10 - $9.20 per hour

Ace Hardware Distribution Center is seeking full-time and part-time employees to work from 2:00 - 6:30 PM, Monday - Thursday.
Excellent benefits including incentive pay after probationary period. Walking, lifting, and loading involved. Center is located in the Huntersville Business
Park. If you are a dependable, energetic team player, call: 875-6500

Gold Sale is Coming

JOSTENS

Payment Plans Available
