THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1994

Irena Arsov
James Robert Bavis, Jr.
Jason Wayne Abraham Bertsch
Thomas Larry Brown, Jr.
Christopher Michael Carrigan
Jessica Anne Coltrane
Mary Catherine Dawson
Cheryl Lynn Dunbar
Rachel Elizabeth Dunifon
Rebekah Ashley Fanning
Heather Elaine Flint
Kathleen Elise Gordon
Sarah Beth Grant
Frank Stuart Guzek
Andrew John Haile
Carolyn Joyce Hanson
Jeffrey Cain Hart
Cynthia Sue Hess
Edwin Franklin Holcombe, III
Amanda Lynne Howard
Marie Buffington Huntington
Beth Ann Jayne
David Byron Kraybill
Erin Elizabeth Lang
Matthew Maxwell Laughon
Nicholas Philip Manuel
Brett Edmund Marston
Lauren Anne McCutcheon
Kathryn Noble McDaniel
Sean Eric McMillan
Sara Elizabeth McNally

Phi Beta Kappa

The following seniors were elected to North Carolina's Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa on February 15, 1994. Students with a 3.6 GPA or higher are considered. A faculty vote determines membership.

Catherine Lena Morton
Margaret Shields Murphey
Aimee Foss Norman
Julie Alison Petty
William Loomis Pomeroy, III
Morgan Whitney Savage
Audrey Nina Schuetz
Duncan Thomas Spears
Barry Michael Stowe
Anne Powell Stringfield
Ginger Forlaw Surratt
Margaret Anne Tootle
Sarah Shoemaker Way
Jon Dwight Weddell
Anne Kathren Zirkle

CBS correspondent, Davidson alum reveals cynicism of media

By Court McBryde

Tonya Harding’s skating saga, Joey Buttafuoco and Amy Fischer’s violent love affair, and midget wrestlers on sexual perversion are examples of recent CBS News stories that CBS Correspondent Robert D. Faw shared with the Davidson community last Monday. Faw, the final speaker of the Dean Rusk Program’s four-day conference on “Conscience and Foreign Policy,” lectured on “The Media and Foreign Policy.” He focused on the present news trend—entertainment.

Faw contends that foreign events are covered less today by newspapers and networks because “foreign news has turned inward and isn’t as sexy.” The objective for networks and newspapers now is to make the viewer react. Faw describes the role of the news as an entertainer as both “our fault and yours.” He is troubled by the values pertaining to the decision-making process as to which stories make the news but admits, “[We] can’t cover the news in twenty-two minutes.”

According to Faw, in the competition for the attention of consumers, “ratings are the ultimate yardstick." Viewers want to watch something entertaining, and “new news” is taking over the function of the industry of journalism. Faw emphasizes the fact that although the media tries to utilize the “power of the image,” this emphasis alone does not shape foreign policies. Footage of the bloody marketplace in Sarajevo has been beamed into American homes for months but, according to Faw, has affected no changes in policies concerning the Balkans.

The role of conscience in the media is, to Faw, a minor one because one person’s conscience can have only a limited impact. In the changing world order, he says, getting the truth of news is growing tougher. During his speech, Faw told political jokes and amusing news stories, demonstrating his point about the media: cater to your audience. Faw, a 1966 Davidson graduate, currently works on the CBS Evening News with Dan Rather.

Robert D. Faw's experience as a journalist abroad brought him to the Dean Rusk Forum. His coverage of foreign affairs includes civil wars in El Salvador and Afghanistan, the toppling of former Filipino President Marcos, the rise of Islamic fundamentalism in Egypt, and political developments in the Balkans.

If You Missed the Cooking at BACON AND EGGS Come See the Old Gang at...

Chat & Chew
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, NC
664-4665
Open Monday-Sunday 5:00 am to 11:00 pm

WELCOME DAVIDSON COLLEGE!

Homosexuality stems from biological basis

By Rachel Dunifon

“Of course there...is a biological basis for homosexuality,” concluded Dr. Don Kimmel. At the same time, he questioned, “But why do we care if there is or not?” The Friends of Lesbians and Gays (F.L.A.G.) sponsored Kimmel’s lecture on the biological basis of homosexuality last Tuesday. After an introduction by F.L.A.G. President David Haslam, Kimmel expressed how happy he was to see an organization like F.L.A.G. on campus. He then launched into a discussion of what he termed “sexual variations” among individuals, emphasizing his belief that sexuality is not black-and-white, but a continuum.

To support this assertion, Kimmel discussed the primitive condition of our evolutionary ancestors who had a sexual status he characterized as “confused.” Lower organisms today, similar to those from whom we evolved, often either change sex or contain aspects of both sexes. Kimmel went on to explain his argument against the contention that homosexuality is not “natural.” He listed numerous mammals, including apes, monkeys, lions, elephants, and cows, who have been observed exhibiting instances of homosexual behavior. Kimmel noted that such behavior is often beneficial and life-preserving to these animals in establishing territory and dominance. Even humans go through the first five to seven weeks of their prenatal lives as ambisexuals who could “go either way” sexually.

Most biological homosexuality research involves human male brains. An area of the hypothalamus, a small region in the back of the brain, is believed to regulate male heterosexual behavior and is larger among males than females. The research of Simon LeVay brought homosexuality into this picture. While studying the brains of Alzheimer patients, LeVay found that nuclei in the hypothalamus were twice as large in heterosexual men as in homosexual men and women. Further research by LeVay demonstrated statistically significant differences between homosexual and heterosexual male brains.

Kimmel warned the audience to be careful in interpreting this data, as LeVay’s research has come under some criticism. Some researchers question the subjectivity of his study, the small sample size he used, and the lack of information about the sexual history of the subjects whom he presumed to be heterosexual.

Kimmel concluded by cautioning the audience about the dangers of categorizing people by terms such as heterosexual, homosexual, or bisexual. “This does terrible things for individual differences,” he warned. He hopes to see research about homosexuality change so that it no longer seeks a biological explanation for accepting people who are considered to be “different.” “If we really believe some of the precepts upon which our nation was built, we would be accepting of everybody... regardless of whether their behavior is biologically-based, environmentally-based, or both,” Kimmel said. Studies such as LeVay’s should not, according to Kimmel, be a factor in determining whether or not a group of people is accepted.

Several members of the Davidson community will further discuss issues involving sexuality and will answer questions covering a wide range of topics at an upcoming F.L.A.G. forum entitled “Coming Out Straight and Gay: Exploring Sexuality,” which will be held at 8 p.m. on March 14. Anyone having any questions relating to F.L.A.G. is encouraged to write to P.O. Box 1325. Correspondence remains confidential.

“Peak REDUCTION Services Available to You such as:
- Letters
- Academic Papers (Theses - Term Papers - Dissertations)
- Amortization Charts
- Charts or other utilization of Lotus-compatible formats
- Mailing Labels
- Mailers/Flyers
- Newsletters

Files are archived to diskette, making it easier and faster to produce frequently used documents or modify/update a previous document for current use.

15301 East Rocky River Road - Davidson, N.C. - 28036 - 704-892-8033