8 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1994

I heard nothing. I only knew that the outside of my high school, just 50 feet away, had become a war zone. Months later, I overheard the words, “gun in the parking lot,” and I ran outside to find myself staring down the barrel of a gun. For some strange reason, fear did not become a factor. I just stared into the eyes of a young man who seemed to have no spirit and told him to leave; he was breaking a state law. Weeks later, a small freshman girl was mugged on campus during lunch by a 22-year-old repeat offender. And within the following month, as I was leaving a football game, I saw two young men and the shadow of a gun. I walked immediately towards them until my boyfriend came running after me and dragged me in the opposite direction. The next morning the paper told of the gun that went off as the two young men scuffled.

Now, two years later, the story of a freshman boy, quiet and shy, haunts the halls of my high school. He murdered his parents as they slept and then buried them in a shallow grave in the backyard because he wasn’t allowed to go roller skating. I went to school in the suburbs of a small city. It was the premiere high school in our state and one of the top public high schools in the country. Still, there was nothing my high school could have done to really change these nightmares. In the midst of all of our prestigious awards and high rankings, we, too, began to feel the turbulence that was sweeping the nation.

I came to Davidson and was initially overwhelmed by its setting. How could life be so tranquil, void of violence and bloodshed? I went home during my breaks and told glimmering stories of how wonderful and ideal life was in the small town of Davidson. All my friends oohed and aahed, and I beamed proudly over the gem I had found. I realized that few of my friends at Davidson have seen what I saw in high school, and that, unfortunately, the majority of the world is similar to my pre-Davidson days. Very few of my friends here know what it is like to have violence around them. While I am glad that they didn’t have to experience the fears, a crucial part of reality is missing for them, a reality I learned a lot from. The reality is that some teenagers—an ever-increasing number—get pregnant, join gangs, kill their families, become addicts, or other horrible truths.

My outlook now has changed. Davidson is wonderful; it is ideal in many ways. But the vast majority of the world outside of Davidson is far from similar to our little town. The only way for us to leave here and move on to our respective futures promoting change is to appreciate our world now and realize that ideal living is possible; we have come very close to emulating it here. The concept is achievable. The need is to remember these days and make the ideal a reality for the world away from Exit 30.

Ike Bailey
The White-American Luxury.

For the past couple of weeks, I have been reading responses to Joan Miller’s recent encounter at Dover’s Supermarket, and frankly, I am tired of the attitudes in these responses. The prevailing attitude seems to be that Joan Miller overreacted and had no right for “yelling” racism because of poor service. Granted, poor service to an African-American by a white-American does not constitute racism or discrimination, but without a doubt, each race will see the same situation very differently.

Imagine this: one Monday afternoon you are walking down the street and all seems well. The sun is shining and nothing could be better. Then, suddenly, a blonde-haired man with blue eyes attacks you because you have a “better tan” than he does. Next Monday comes around and you are feeling happy once again, and then the same blonde-haired, blue-eyed man attacks you again for the same reason. This goes on every Monday for the rest of the year. Ask yourself this question: “What would I expect on the first Monday of the new year?” You would probably feel anger, frustration, and maybe even a bit of helplessness, but you would no doubt expect the same attack when you see that blonde-haired, blue-eyed man.

Now imagine that this happens to you every day, every week, every month of your entire life, and then imagine how you would feel and what you would expect. The sad fact is that African-Americans in this country have to live out this scenario, whether they are in the highest or lowest socio-economic positions. Whites don’t have to look for the derogatory glances that blacks have to look for. Whites don’t have to be concerned about hidden agendas in the actions of people of different races.

See Luxury on page 9

Rosie Molinary
Ideal living is possible.

Finally, Clinton decided to launch airstrikes in Sarajevo.

Change continued from page 7

They are historically rooted in religious traditions. They are spiritual values. And as Mark Schwehn observes in his book Exiles from Eden: Religion & the Academic Vocation in America (Oxford, 1993), “the practice of [such] spiritual values is and has always been essential to the process of learning, even within the secular academy.” So, while the Christian tradition shouldn’t set the parameter of what we can study or believe at Davidson, it can provide a context for learning which is neither narrow nor exclusive. In fact,Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

It provides a firm basis for the very ethical categories of justice and compassion which are the underpinnings of our respect for each other, even when there are differences between us. Tradition provides a context for learning. If we make Christianity merely ornamental (i.e., “we were founded by Presbyterians, but that fact has no bearing on what we’re about today”), we run the risk of impoverishing ourselves. Schwehn again: “...our present-day academies [may] be living off a kind of borrowed fund of moral capital. Although they may be able to draw upon these originally spiritual resources for the time being...[they] may not be able either to replenish the fund or to transmit it intact to the next generation.” If Davidson is to appreciate its Presbyterian inheritance, it has to do so not merely in a reactionary fashion that fears ch-ch-changes. Instead, we have to spend this inheritance in forward-looking ways which recognize that, in light of our contemporary, multicultural, postmodern situation, it provides excellent currency for building a new phase of our institutional life. If we want to be a college that treasures the intellectual pursuit of truth, that promotes the virtues which lend integrity to learning, that values diversity in the academy, and that encourages its graduates to be individuals of fine character who can serve their communities in meaningful ways, the wisest course before us is to root ourselves in a tradition which values the life of the mind and the life of the spirit, and which, at its best, provides a strong but flexible basis for our identity as an institution of higher learning.

Rob Spach is the Chaplain of Davidson College.

I'm excited about shuffleboard and equestrianism.

Guns & Beer continued from page 7

Of course, I have to spend some time discussing the ladies in the spotlight, Nancy Kerrigan and Tonya Harding. I’m going to go on record and say that I hope Tonya takes the gold medal. Let’s face it: evil is sexy. Who wants to date milk and cookies when you can have beer and pizza? Tonya is my beautiful, muscular lager and pie. As for Nancy, being a victim is just too unattractive. Did you see that cover of Newsweek? Ug-leee.

I place figure skating in the same class as ballet. Both of these events require extraordinary physical prowess, combined with a natural, flowing grace refined by years of hard work. It takes both skill and determination to rise to the top of the field after incredible expenditures of time, money, and sweat. And despite all of the death-defying stunts and superhuman acts of strength and balance, both ballet and figure skating are incredibly boring to watch. Don’t despair. In two years we’ll have the Summer Olympics in Atlanta. Then we can look forward to even more exciting sports like the marathon, shuffleboard, and equestrianism. Boy, it almost makes me excited about the future.

Rob King

Humanity's final frontier.

Space age man’s final frontier: Man’s final frontier