Che ant "THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY" SOMA

VOLUME LXXXVI MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1994 NUMBER 5

John Belk gives $1.6 million for merit scholarships
By Russ Tarver

Davidson alumnus and Belk Stores Services Chairman John Montgomery Belk recently added $1.6 million to The Campaign for Davidson fundraising drive. Begun in November of 1989, the campaign has raised $142 million and will likely reach its goal of $150 million by next year’s deadline.

As honorary chairman of the campaign, Belk donated the money in order to fund a merit scholarship award for Davidson students hailing from any of the 14 Southeastern states in which Belk department stores operate. “Once in place, this gift will provide over $80,000 a year,” says Davidson Director of Development Jamie May after the announcement of the gift was made Friday evening. The money would pay tuition, fees, room, and board for one Belk Scholar in each class beginning with the class of 1999.

“This is a very substantial scholarship for Davidson,” says May. “We expect it will become even bigger with more gifts in the future.” The Campaign for Davidson has raised around $38 million in scholarship money since 1989. Of these funds, $22 million is for need-based financial aid and $16 million is for merit scholarships.

Belk, class of 1943, praises Davidson for providing one of the best foundations for success in “life and business.” U.S. News & World Report ranks Davidson as the 5th best value of national liberal arts colleges, but 12th in cost with scholarships. Fortunately, campaign contributions specified for scholarships will make Davidson more affordable and a better value for top students.

Alums return to campus for nostalgic festivities ranging from rainy football games to crowded late nights.
By Beth Bacon

Just another Homecoming? Nope, not this year. Here are some highlights:

- The rugby team loses to UNC-Chapel Hill “a lot to a little,” according to sophomore rugby player Thayer Long.
- The football team loses to Emory and Henry.
- It rains all morning, clearing up just in time for the afternoon festivities, only to get hopes up for a lovely evening. No such luck... it pours just as everyone heads to fraternity houses to party, all dressed up and looking nice.
- Kappa Sig’s band shows up on Friday instead of Saturday night.
- The independent students had no representative on the Homecoming court.

The day had its good points, too. The alumni were reunited with their classes. Lunar Luau was a booming success. Patterson Court was hoppin’ both Friday and Saturday nights. Of course, the 1994 Homecoming queen was crowned. And we have to give the weather some credit... it did clear up for the football game.

Friday night’s Lunar Luau proved to be a great success, even though there were some concerns about it taking place on Homecoming weekend. Because the event was held early in the evening Friday night (8-11 p.m.), everyone who wanted to was able to go out afterwards. Freshman Dan Baker says, “It was good that it was over early so that we could go down to Patterson Court.” Many people were in attendance, and Union Board Vice-President Rosie Molinary says, “I think it went really well. I had a lot of people come up to me and say they had a really good time.”

Besides the traditional booths displayed by the houses of Patterson Court, this year’s Lunar Luau offered another twist: a kissing booth to raise money for the AIDS quilt. Grace Hill, a participant in the booth says, “We didn’t kiss...anybody! We just hugged Kurt Holmes and some random guy.”

Saturday afternoon, senior Phoebe Dean

See Queen continued on page 5

SGA supports basketball courts behind Martin F
Rudell asks senate to "meet him halfway" with his compromise resolution.
By Mary Clare Jalonick

After extensive research, debate, and controversy, a new outdoor basketball court has finally been proposed for Davidson. The SGA voted to construct the courts in the field behind Martin Court F. The new resolution was passed at Tuesday’s meeting 31-3 after four weeks of extensive discussion and consideration by both representatives and students.

The courts will be the same size as the current outdoor basketball courts, with six hoops. The school has not decided whether to build temporary or concrete surfaces. They will not be lighted, and will initially be for daytime use. The money for the courts has already been allocated by the athletic department, so building expense was not an issue.

The Compromise
Rudell initially proposed that the courts be built where the tennis court parking lot is now, but he encountered considerable debate. Students were concerned about the loss of parking spaces and voiced their opinions in many different ways. Representatives surveyed their peers, students sent letters to The Davidsonian, and at least 20 people called the president of the college. The resolution was put down by the SGA in a 10-10 tie; a majority is needed for a resolution to be passed.

When presenting his case Tuesday, Rudell said that he “had no idea that there would be this much controversy. Frankly, I never want to park here again after all this.” He says that those who opposed the resolution were vocal because they felt that something was being taken away from them.

See Courts continued on page 3

Honor Code to undergo review and evaluation
By Meg Wolff

“I never want to envision a Davidson without the Honor Code,” says SGA president Eric Rosenbach. The past week at the meeting of the SGA, Rosenbach

Honor Baie: “I don’t want people to think that there is anything wrong with the Honor Code,” says Rosenbach, “just that this review will head off any potential problems so that the Honor Code can remain the backbone of the college.”

Sophomore Warren Buford, appointed chair of the committee, emphasizes that the SGA is “not out to create a problem.” Buford sees the initial step in the reevaluation process as gathering information: “We hope to gather as many views from students as we can, combining all schools of thought on the Honor Code into a general consensus.”

Rosenbach recently briefed the Committee for Campus and Religious Life on his intention to form the committee and states that the response from administrators and faculty members was “enthusiastic.” Once the committee is fully formed, some tentative plans include talking to faculty members and administrators and possibly taking a survey that would encompass the entire student body.

Some suggestions from SGA senators include clarifying and articulating the principles behind the Honor Code as well as mandating memorization of the entire pledge. Other suggestions include making penalties for breaking the Honor

See Review continued on page 3

Students Trustees? SGA proposes student-trustee interaction

NEWS
Confederate flag is not racial
John Rogers writes rebuttal to Ike Bailey's column last week.

OPINIONS 8-9
Donna Peters brings one woman show.

INTERVIEW 16
Women’s Soccer
Davidson takes their show on the road, facing #7 Clemson.

SPORTS 14