16 THE DAVIDSONIAN _ MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1994

Coach McKillop and the team prepare for the next test at the Southern Conference tournament and for the chance to compete with the best college basketball has to offer. Seniors Janko Narat, Ron Horton, and Jason Zimmerman hope to bring the championship trophy home to Davidson.

February 24, 1994

How important do you think the trip to Europe last summer was to the team’s success?

McKillop: The dependency and reliance upon each other really improved as a result of the trip. It wasn’t Florence or Milan that we traveled to, it was small cities that were not accustomed to having American tourists; and as a result of not having the English language being spoken that frequently, we really depended on each other for all of our communication. All of those (little things) helped form a sense of trust and helped form a sense of team unity. We shared the highs and lows of the experience we will all share for a lifetime.

Zimmerman: Coach didn’t mention anything of the basketball aspect, and that was such a little part of it. The basketball aspect was important, but more importantly than the basketball has been the unity. We started coming close last year and in Europe we really enhanced. When you're the only fifteen people that can understand and talk together you either grow closer together, or there is dissension. We grew closer together.

What has been the most difficult transition from the Big South Conference to the Southern Conference?

McKillop: I think the players feel a lot more like Division I basketball players because of the nature of the competition. The attention given to the Southern Conference and the natural rivalries that existed prior to our return have helped our team be a part of that Southern Conference process. It has really given a great deal of quality to our product, and as a result our players feel much better about themselves. And in feeling much better they have worked hard to improve.

What one thing has been the biggest difference in the last two years?

Narat: Confidence is a big factor. “We just have a lot more confidence this year.” We’re capable. It started in Italy, and then we got a couple of big wins early in the season. “You get confident when you start winning.”

McKillop: During the European basketball experience, we played against pros, 28-year-old men, with biased officials and hostile crowds, and yet we still played well.

Zimmerman: I think another aspect of that is our depth. Everybody has confidence. We have McKillop confidence as a team, yet I have a great deal of confidence in every one of the individuals. I think everybody has confidence in each other. I think that started last year when we had six freshmen. Now they are sophomores. They have more confidence in themselves, which in turn gives the rest of the team more confidence in them.

What players in the past have served as the best role models?

Zimmerman: Sterling Freeman, ‘92. He was one of the first players I met when I stepped on campus as a freshman, and while practicing against him for two years he gave me a lot of licks. He was a person I admired off the court as well. He had it all together. Another player was Paul Drobnitch, ‘92. I really admired him too. He was somebody I looked up to.

Narat: All of the guys that were upperclassmen when I came here as a freshman. They were all guys we could look up to.

What has been the biggest emotional boost for the team this year?

Zimmerman: Emotionally, I think the biggest one for us was the first UNCC game, at least personally for me. It was really the first huge game that we had won. UNCC had beaten us five times till this year, and we had just been to Wake Forest. We got behind by 20, and we played close from there on out, but we’ve played close against a lot of teams. To get over the hump against UNCC was a big emotional boost for me personally and for the team. It has been incredible how it has built since then.

Narat: For me it was the Clemson game because of the way we took it to them. The first half especially because we were able to build a 20-point lead. It (the win) was a great, great confidence boost.The team has grown to gain the most from? 

Narat: I think it was the Marshall game because we came off two big wins and we were just not ready to play. They were ready for us and we weren’t ready for them. It reminded us that every team in the Southern Conference is out to win basketball games. They aren’t going to just lay down.

Zimmerman: I think it was the Citadel for the same reason because we thought we were going to win the basketball game. From then on, every other game we have played since then, we have gone in with the feeling we are going to win, but we have to win the game. In most of the games since then we have gone out and played to win the basketball game, not just going out there with the attitude that we are supposed to win. The game played there last year sort of turned our season around then also. They took it to us, and we decided we would put an end to that.

MEN'S BASKETBALL
Second in the Southern Conference

Janko Narat goes up for a shot. Photo by Mike Wang

Road to the Tournament

With the final game remaining in the regular season tonight, Davidson could not be in a better position. A win over VMI gives us at least the second seed this weekend along with the school’s tenth 20-win season. For the past four years, seniors Janko Narat and Jason Zimmerman have played their hearts out at many thankless times. The dreams they had of playing basketball at Davidson when they arrived here are now coming true. Standing as the only two remaining members of a highly praised recruiting class to play, they have been through the highs and the lows. But they will certainly leave on a big, big high. Regardless of what happens the rest of the season, these two along with Coach McKillop have helped revive school spirit and a winning attitude.

Last Saturday night, 3,114 people showed up to watch the Wildcats. I can’t remember that many people coming to a Davidson game since I have been here, and if there were more, those people came to watch the other team. Now they are coming to watch Davidson. That feels good as a student, but it must be incredible for a player.

McKillop: Our seniors need to be respected for what they have established, and what they will leave behind. They leave behind cherished memories for themselves as well as for our program. We need to credit the efforts of players such as the Jay Schmitt’s, the Paul Drobnitch’s, and the Sterling Freeman’s that need to be commended as a very fine group of players. We are stocked very well right now for any team, whether it is Davidson or Duke, we are very well covered right now in terms of what is happening down the road. I am very optimistic about where we can go. When you achieve something, it gives you a taste. Last year gave us an initial taste, this year we are getting a bigger taste. In the years to come, we'll get a bigger taste.

Are there any other comments?

McKillop: I am delighted that these two guys can leave here feeling that they have reached the point where we can hang a banner that will be a part of their experience for the rest of their lives, so 25 years from now when they return they can stand here and remember.

BY WILL COBB