80 YEARS OLD
The Davidsonian
By Scott M. Lenhart

During this decade, "The South’s foremost college weekly" followed the lives of the Davidson student during the pivotal years preceding
and during World War II. C. Shaw Smith Sr. as Colin the magician entertained the campus, and Chalmers Davidson became
the college’s head librarian.

THE VOWLES, 1937

On smoking & North Carolina

Can North Carolina be held culpable for poisoning the human race, I ask myself. Growing up, we were made to
feel almost unpatriotic if we didn’t smoke cigarettes. Cigarettes were tossed out at football games. The fraternities who smoked the
most cigarettes won prizes. We won a prize by smuggling virgin wrappers out of the Old Gold factory and crumpling
them by night. Thus we outwitted the industry.

True, we had warning long before the cancer scare. The term “coffin nail” goes back to 1885, according to Eric
Partridge. I dabbled in cigarettes only briefly, switching to cigars (in the perhaps-folk belief that paper was the real culprit).
The only trouble with that was I couldn’t quite determine my politics between those two cigar advocates Lee Iacocca and
Fidel Castro. So I settled for Edward G. Robinson.

In 1986 I gave up tobacco altogether, nudged by a heart experience. I still like to read that hymn to
the cigar, Holy Smoke, by the Cuban novelist G. Cabrera Infante (1985). The fact remains that two of the finest
scholars I know are dying of emphysema, and I suspect that if they had it to do over again they
wouldn’t give up the filthy weed. Walter De La Mare said he couldn’t write poetry without cigarettes, and Stephen Spender
even worked out a rationale that cigarettes siphoned off certain physical energies and thus enabled creativity.

I do know that once I was in London on the way to Stockholm to read a learned paper that
I simply could not finish and that by smoking myself silly in a hotel room I was able to bring
it off to a triumphant conclusion. I wouldn’t go so far as Richard Klein, however, to write a book called
Cigarettes are Sublime, published, appropriately enough, by the Duke University Press. Who else? Rather, I would say, with the late
Frank Zappa, “Tobacco is my favorite vegetable.” These were among his dying words.

So tobacco and creativity are, it seems, inextricably wedded to each other. The guilt lies, I suspect, in a smoke
screen, a deliberate obfuscation, on the part of the industry. And I doubt that the moguls can ever be held
accountable. Too bad.

1934-1944

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994

World War II college built a new library, the Martin Chemistry building, and made plans for Duke Dormitory and Johnston
gym. During this growth, Davidson faced the world war and became a training ground for army flyers, and the paper
itself went from the standard eight-page issue to a four-page pamphlet during paper shortages. Nevertheless, campus life continued, and The
Davidsonian kept on keeping on.

Ghosts

My two favorite sections of the paper during the late thirties were “Town Tattle,” where the most mundane occurrences were
related to the readers, such as Mrs. C. K. Brown’s trip to Tallahassee to visit relatives, and “Classroom Quotes,” where
the staff would collect the sayings of the week, like a professor’s misunderstood statement in the November 4th issue: “I
do like to ride students, but if you’re sensitive, come and see me.” After that issue, the section was never
to...be seen again. In 1935, during the career of the Wildcats’ star fullback Baxter “Chub” Yarborough, the energetic Davidsonian staff
probed into the innermost workings of waste under the headline “New Sewage Plant Attracts Interest.” Go get ‘em, boys.

The Davidson community faced two tragedies during the ’35-’36 academic year. On November 27 (my birthday), a student accidentally shot
and killed another student while cleaning a .38 calibre automatic pistol on fourth Watts. (I’ll let you guess which room).
Earlier that year, the entire town came together at the home of Mrs. Hengeweld, whose stove blew up, destroying her
entire kitchen. She only commented through her tears, “Well, I’ve wanted a new kitchen for a long time; now I'll
get one.”

Sandburg and “Speedy”

On October 14, 1936, Carl Sandburg came to Davidson to read his poetry, to play his guitar, and to deliver
his speech “Hyacinths and Biscuits.” After singing traditional folk songs, Sandburg left the Chambers audience with, “Your faces have been
so kind to me. I thank you.”

In the December 2 issue, the staff ran a profile on Bill “Speedy” White, the insane cyclist. Twice a year,
he would leave his home in Abbeville, S.C. and ride 150 miles to attend Davidson. At the close of the
semester, he would go back home on his well-worn Huffy at the average speed of 10 mph.

Believe it... or not

Then, during my reading of dusty back issues, I found something very interesting: on December 16, 1936, Yale withdrew her
claims to the first X-ray photograph ever made in the U.S. This made Davidson College the site of the first
American X-ray picture. In 1837, three students became interested in the study of Crooke’s tubes, an expensive apparatus that the
physics department had just acquired. One night, the students wanted to recreate the “shadow pictures” of Dr. Roentgen’s experiment with
the tubes. They broke into the physics labs, stole some equipment, and went into their experiment room. After their successful
first picture of familiar objects, the students shot a bullet into a cadaver’s hand and took another picture. Because they
stole the apparatus, they hid the pictures for a long time for fear of expulsion. Believe it... or not.

Davidson and the War

With the turn of the decade, the staff turned to fears and anxieties of the approaching war. In February of
1941, the college collected clothes and blankets under the “Bundles for Britain” program, and we sent 350 copies of the
King James Bible to the men of the U.S.S. North Carolina. Also, a confused guest lecturer and noted “expert” predicted
victory for the British within one year without American intervention. The paper turned its focus to the Davidson ROTC, and
the college changed its schedule by speeding student graduation in line with the national defense program. Blood drives and trial
blackouts for enemy air raids dominated campus activities. In February of 1943, the Army Air Corps trained cadets in pre-flight
instruction at Davidson. The Army turned dorms into barracks as over 500 men came to the campus. Although the campus
came together to support the war effort, Davidson raised enough money for the construction of the Grey Memorial Library, which
is now the college union and the Martin Chemistry Building. With the completion of the new library on October 2,
1941, Chalmers Davidson, our head librarian, orchestrated two lines of students and professors to pass books down the line from
the old Carnegie Library.

ANNOUNCING

Main Street Books
the republication of the book,
DAVIDSON: A History of the Town
by Mary D. Beaty
Available for $20.00 at Main Street Books, Davidson
126 S. Main Street
704-892-6841

COMING EVENTS

Amelia Dockery will sign copies of her new book on September 20th from 5-7 pm
