4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1994

My field trip to Vail Commons
By Matthew Eirich

I make the journey to the Commons three times a day, as do some 800 or so other students. Every time I go through the same routine: get my card run through the machine, get into a line, and eat my food. Seemingly, this routine is all there is to Davidson’s kitchen of culinary splendor. But there is, both literally and figuratively, much more than meets the eye. There are offices upstairs and a huge kitchen facility behind the serving lines. There are also many people who are responsible for one of the most important aspects of campus life. I endeavored to move beyond mere routine and to learn just how the Commons works.

The health issue: choices, likes and dislikes
Barbara Metzler, Manager of the Commons, is responsible for the efficiency and quality of services at Vail. She guides the Commons with an eye toward meeting students’ needs and desires and responding to their immediate situations. She says, “We try to go by student likes and dislikes: what they take a lot of and what they do not take a lot of.”

A commonly heard complaint about the Commons is that none of the offerings are healthy. But for Metzler, healthy eating is intricately tied with student choices. “All food to me is healthy. How we put it together is up to the student.” This philosophy means that a hamburger and fries for lunch every once in a while is not unhealthy. But to eat that meal five times a week certainly would be unhealthy. Another example of this theory is given by Kathy Wood, the special projects manager: regardless of the amount of lettuce, cucumbers, and broccoli one puts into a salad, it will never be healthy if drenched in high-fat ranch dressing. For Metzler, the discussion of the nutritiousness of Commons food hinges on student decisions.

Metzler is hesitant to label some food healthy, because “healthy” is a relative term. A student trying to cut all fat from his or her diet may not consider a dish healthy if it has 15 percent of its calories from fat; another student may choose that same dish. Students are prepared to make eating decisions for themselves. “Students have more knowledge about food. [They] make more educated choices,” Metzler says.

Reorganizing the Commons: many choices
“You want choices, options. We are trying to meet that need,” Wood says. To this end, the Commons has instituted many changes, such as the alternative bar, the sandwich bar, the grill, and the salad bar. Two years ago Metzler began a reorganization of the Commons. Before that, both lines at dinner offered the same two entrees. There was no alternative bar, grill, or salad bar.

The alternative bar was instituted to “give you another choice, an alternative... The alternative bar is just what that means,” Metzler says. Students requested more potatoes, pastas, and beans and rice dishes than could be accommodated in the serving lines, so the alternative bar was created. The alternative bar “is not referred to as a health bar,” Metzler says.

The salad bar also deserves students’ attention, according to Metzler. “If you don’t go to the salad bar, you are missing part of what is being offered.” The salad bar often contains sources of protein not found in the lines and in yogurt. “The salad bar adds to the serving lines” in a different way, Metzler says.

There is more choice in today’s Commons than just a few years ago, says Metzler. All of the various bars offer “more opportunity to create the students’ own pyramid” of healthy eating, Metzler says.

New Winter Hours: Closed for lunch except for special luncheon parties. Open Sun. - Wed., 4 p.m. - 11 p.m. and Thurs. - Sat., 4 p.m. - 1 a.m.Healthy means of preparing food

In the cooking process, all frying is done with vegetable shortening, and 80 to 90 percent of the vegetables are steamed. Another concern of students is the quality of the food purchased by the Commons. About this, Metzler says, “What we buy is quality. I am very strong on that. I will not allow us to bring a low-quality product through the door.” The hamburgers are grade A, for instance, with a meat-to-fat ratio of 80/20. Vegetables are frozen as a matter of necessity, but “frozen vegetables are usually more nutritious depending on how they are cooked,” says Metzler.

All meats are “fresh” with the exceptions of skinless chicken and hamburgers. “I buy choice meats,” says Metzler. “We don’t buy a lot of pre-made products. It is more economical [to make things fresh] and better for all of you,” Metzler says. Ninety to 95 percent of all food in the Commons is made from scratch, says Metzler. Products such as bread, milk, and dairy products are delivered daily. Meats and frozen items are delivered three to five times a week.

The Fall of the wall: Behind the lines

As interesting as learning about the philosophy behind the Commons’ offerings was, my tour of the kitchen behind the serving lines was even better. The kitchen was immense, a workroom full of people I have never seen before in the Commons: the cooks, bakers, and dishwashers. The wall hides another world we never see and rarely think about.

The kitchen is the domain of Dee Philips, Purchasing and Production Manager. She is in charge of buying all of the food, supplies, and equipment needed to operate the Commons. Metzler’s philosophy of buying only quality products is actualized by Philips. Vitality juices, says Philips, are of the highest quality. “It is the top of the line,” said Philips. Stonyfield yogurt is “not a dairy by-product,” but mall-quality and mall-expensive and contains less than one gram of fat, says Philips. The hot chocolate is Swiss Miss. The popular chicken nuggets are made of only muscle meat. Davidson is the only school in the South to purchase this type of chicken nugget, and it must be ordered especially for Davidson through the distributor.

The Commons’ main distributor is Biggers Bros., which purchases Biggers Bros. red label goods or “top products,” says Philips. Only name-brand products are purchased: General Mills cereal, Coble milk, Sunbeam bread, Uncle Ben’s rice, Quaker Oats, and Washington state apples. When she compares Davidson’s board plan to the offerings of other schools, Philips thinks Davidson compares favorably. “I’m proud of the board plan here at Davidson. A lot of the things you see here are at cash operations.” A cash operation works on an a la carte basis, where students have a declining balance for their meal plan and pay for each item they choose separately. At a cash operation, according to Philips, each glass of Vitality orange juice would cost around 90 cents, while Davidson students may have as many as they want. She says the quality and offerings of the Commons are as good as at a large cash operation such as Clemson’s.

Communication with students

Students should read Eric Sapp’s commentary in last week’s Davidsonian as an indication of the Commons’ willingness to accommodate students’ needs. For instance, the basketball team practices past the close of the Commons on certain days and so was forced to eat at the Union Cafe for dinner. When the team asked Metzler about using their meal plans at the Cafe, she decided to

See Eat continued on page 5

---

CHILE RISTRAS

Come enjoy Chile Ristras appetizers, succulent steaks, fabulous fajitas, Mexican pizza, and extravagant desserts. Cappuccino and espresso are also served. Exit 28 into Cornelius. Located on Liverpool Parkway across from Movies at the Lake.

- Monday - Friday: FREE APPETIZERS at the bar from 5 pm - 6:30 pm
- Wednesday nights: $11 pitchers of House Margaritas or Long Island Iced Tea