THE DAVIDSONIAN : MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1994

The Davidsonian

LEIGH RAWDON - Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Executive Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Managing Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY - News Editor
RUSS TARVER - Ass't News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts & Living Editor
WILL COBB - Sports Editor
BROOKE McRAE - Photography Editor
WILLIAM ROBERT - Copy Editor
TERRY BUFFINGTON - Advice Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES - Advertising Manager
SCOTT HILE - Operations Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN - Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD - Circulation Manager
ERIK SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

Honor Code: On Trial

Recently, the SGA established an ad-hoc committee on the honor system to answer concerns that the Honor Code’s presence isn’t
felt on campus as strongly as it used to be. The committee will look into many facets of our honor
system, but the basic question we all need to consider is this: Do students still respect the Honor Code? We
think not. Not the way they should, at least.

Typical Davidson students do not have contempt for the Honor Code, but it is not a part of their lives
as it needs to be to work properly. As important as it is to the life of our college, the
unfortunate truth is that students just don’t think about the Honor Code enough. Our experience as newspaper editors has taught
us that it takes a lot to get somebody’s attention. It is difficult to force students to think about the
code every single day, but the Honor Council needs to take measures to bring the code back to the forefront
of our minds.

We could take lessons from Washington and Lee about how to do this. They require that students write out the
honor pledge on every paper and test. They have a copy of the pledge hanging in every classroom. Students there
are afraid of the wrath of the Honor Council, but at Davidson, that feeling most often fades by the end
of freshman year. At W&L, the Honor Code is a felt presence on campus, and at Davidson, it is not.

Our Honor Code has faded not because Davidson students are less honest than they used to be. It is our
day-to-day awareness of the code that has faded, and fortunately, that is something we can bring back. But if we
recognize the problem and fail to institutionalize a change, then we are compromising our moral integrity. The next few months
are crucial to the future of Davidson College as we know it. As the SGA and the Honor Council examine
Davidson’s moral system, the entire community needs to become aware of our waning regard for honor and ask itself an
unpleasant question: Is the Honor Code still the backbone of Davidson College, or have we lost our spine?

LETTERS

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian
requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all
letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey
Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by
the Trustees of Davidson College.

Confederate flag is inflammatory symbol

To the editors,

I would like to sincerely express my appreciation to Ike Bailey for contributing his recent editorial, “How important is the
Confederate flag?” to the Davidsonian. I would like to add that although slavery was not the central issue of the
Civil War, the flag has indeed been used by the KKK and white supremacist groups to symbolize their message, and
everyone should be sensitive to what feelings that fact may and should arouse.

Sincerely,
Kimberly Kreiling '96

Another financial proposal

To the editors,

Recently, the SGA was challenged with the difficult problem ofa new outdoor basketball court. Reflecting on the many problems associated
with this challenging proposal, we have come up with a suggestion. We think we should take all the money allocated
for the construction of the on-campus post office, the co-ed eating house, the new Union (the one we were promised
as perspectives), the new track, and the basketball courts, and build an underground parking garage below Richardson Field. Now that's
something worthwhile.

Two concerned students,
Bruce Bannister '95 and Kevin Miller '95

Best to Dress as if Your Life Depended on it

Somewhere out there, a young man is reading this. Ah yes—there you are. Whoever you are, wherever you're sitting or
standing, this one's for you. Yes, you. I don't know your name. I have no idea where you live, what
schools you've attended, what you want to do with your life. But I'm going to give you some advice: Tonight,
tomorrow, the next time you're in a position to, do yourself a favor. Wear a condom.

Wait. Before you turn back to the Sports section or drop the paper entirely, I'll admit the obvious. For most
guys, wearing a rubber during sex doesn't feel as good as going "bareback." I've heard some guys joke that it's
like "making love with a glove." Now, I'm no man. But as a twice-married woman, the sister of three men
and the best female buddy of several more, I've heard enough men talk straight-up about sex to know this: With
a condom, sex still feels good. So good that you are going to want to feel that way, over and
over, for many years to come.

Which brings me to what's making a closet prude like me speak so brazenly to a stranger. A front-page article
from Wednesday's Washington Post, that's what. It stated that AIDS has surpassed homicide to become the leading killer of black
men age 25 to 44 in the Washington area, according to local health officials. Before young white guys get comfy,
they should know that according to Centers for Disease Control epidemiologist Richard Selik, AIDS has become the leading cause of
death nationally for all men in the age group, based on provisional data for 1992. The disease is spreading faster
among heterosexuals. Bottom line: More young men are dying from sex and drugs—the primary ways of spreading the blood-and-fluid-borne disease—than
from bullets. That's saying something.

Once upon a time, the chief killer of young guys practically everywhere was car crashes and other accidents. After that,
heart disease. (That's still true in much of the United States.) Young men died from the kind of stuff that
devastated family members could say was "God's will.... It couldn't be helped." Nowadays, in places like D.C., thousands of young,
healthy guys die because somebody points a loaded gun at them and pulls the trigger. Even more die of AIDS.
Like homicide—which is another column altogether—AIDS is often about choices. It can be prevented. By not using intravenous drugs. And
by using something as cheap, smart, and widely available as a condom. That's so well publicized, my 8-year-old knows it.
So why aren't you using one?

We just dealt with the feel-good issue. Because dead guys generally don't have sex—and you want to have lots of
it—it's in your best interest to stay alive. Condoms can help. Perhaps you have a partner problem. Your girlfriend will
hate rubbers or question your wanting to use one. Trust me, a woman too dumb to comprehend that condoms protect
you and her is someone with whom you won't want to exchange phone numbers, let alone body fluids.

I know how it is. When you get down to it, only you can protect you, anyway. And in this
crazy, out-of-control world, this is one thing you can control. You're smart and it's simple. Buy condoms. Use them. Live
a little. Got that? You can thank me later.

- This is an editorial written by Donna Britt and published in the July 1, 1994 issue of The Washington
Post Writer's Group.
