16 + Fes THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1994

Junior midfielder Nicole Ficeto hangs tough in a physical match versus VCU. Photo by Lauren Edlis

Game continued from page 14

“They have given the team great motivation and leadership, both on and off the field.” Both players have had to
switch positions this season due to changes in the lineup. Hilles was playing forward and is now playing right mid
and right back. Pepper switched from right back to sweeper. “Both have played exceptionally well given that they have had
to develop new skills for their new positions,” says Pryor.

Senior goalkeeper Mary Ferguson has been splitting time with freshmen Tamara Carhart and Sara Gebhart. Coach Pryor feels the team
“is very fortunate to have such wonderful young talent.” However, Pryor is thankful for the five seniors she has this
year as well. They have lent a lot of stability to the team, making it a very cohesive team.

Volleyball whips Eagles

By David Aycock

Davidson’s women’s volleyball team improved this week with a big win on Thursday night against the Winthrop Eagles in Belk
Arena. The Wildcats were able to win in four games behind the spirited play of the entire team. The Wildcats
took the first game in business-like fashion after breaking away from a 5-5 tie to win 15-8. Tara Smith led
the ‘Cats in the first game, putting away numerous kills and working well with the rest of the team.

The Wildcats took the second game as well, after falling behind 12-4. In a stunning comeback, the ‘Cats fought back
to win 16-14 and effectively broke the spirit of a Winthrop team that was looking forward to tying the match
at one game apiece. Senior Lorie Logan led the team, helping them keep their composure and making some outstanding individual
plays.

After losing the third game 15-8, the Wildcats took the match by dominating play in the fourth, winning the game
15-5 and taking a much-needed home win. The Wildcats will return to action this week at UNC-Greensboro, UT-Chattanooga, and Western
Carolina. The next two home games will be during Parents’ Weekend, against Georgia Southern and Furman.

Swimmers make good showing in season debut

By William Robert

Davidson’s men’s and women’s swimming and diving team made an impressive showing at its first meet of the season on
Saturday as they went on the road to take on Virginia Tech. Despite losing the meet on

Cat Nips

Duke is 7-0. How’s that

By Jason Byassee

The football program that has repeatedly been in last place in the ACC is suddenly undefeated and fast on FSU’s
heels for the league’s top spot. The article in Sports Illustrated a few weeks back which featured the Blue Devils
actually made Duke’s players look mean. Misplaced Duke fans (i.e. yours truly) are reveling in their renewed football glory.

Lest we get too excited, a hunk of the Devils’ success may be accredited to their schedulemaker. None of Duke’s
seven wins has come against a formidable opponent. In addition, all four of Duke’s remaining foes have spent time in
the nation’s top-25 this year. Duke could lose all four games, but they probably won’t. We’ll see.

Surprisingly enough, such rampant winning in football is not totally unprecedented for Duke. The year was 1989. Duke started the
season in typical fashion: they were 1-3. They were playing Clemson, #7 in the country. After falling behind 14-0 in
the first quarter, Duke had finally put a decent offensive drive together and was inside the Clemson five-yard line. On
third down their tailback seemed to have been stopped cold at the line of scrimmage. The Duke linemen were walking
back to the huddle, thinking that their man had been tackled. But the play wasn’t dead. Randy Cuthbert, the Duke
tailback, had been hit initially by the entire Clemson defensive line but had refused to go down. He carried what
seemed like the entire Clemson defense on his back from the 5 into the end zone for the touchdown. That
play seemed to mark the point where the football gods reached down and anointed the rest of Duke’s football season.
They went on to beat the Tigers 21-17 and proceeded to go on a tear. If Duke’s 1-3 recordBefore the
possible Clemson game looked normal for them, their 8-3 record at the end of the season certainly did not. Duke
finished the season in style, beating UNC 41-0 in Chapel Hill. They accepted an offer to play Texas Tech in
the All-American Bowl, and my family journeyed to the game in hopes that the magic would continue. It would not:
Duke lost by three touchdowns, and Coach Spurrier left Duke to take over at Florida. Easy come, easy go.

Here’s what that means for this year’s team. Following that fateful Clemson game in 1989, Duke ran off seven straight
victories to win the ACC and attend their first bowl in years. The bowl was when they hit some more
formidable competition, which proved to be too much for them to handle. Does the history of Duke’s success hold some
foreshadowing for this Duke team of 1994? This year, Duke has had seven straight victories without playing anybody. They’ve got
another fine quarterback, another enormous tailback, and another confident, good ole’ boy coach. They certainly have the tools to be
a good team, and they have had a gift of a schedule. Duke has their first true test this week
when they travel to Tallahassee to take on Florida State. Will they fold? Here are some predictions for you: Duke
probably won’t collapse against FSU, but they won’t win, either. It’s true that stranger things have happened, but this Duke
team simply isn’t as good as the Seminoles. They also aren’t gonna be sneaking up on anybody. Between Virginia, State,
and UNC, look for Duke to win one or two games.

Football suffers loss versus Randolph Macon

Foot continued from page 14

He lines up for every down of the game at defensive end and offensive tackle. Bo Bartholomew, Mills Arial, and
James Cassidy get in on about 20 to 30 plays on offense when the Wildcats use their “Robust Offense” package.
The defense had seven sacks of the afternoon as junior Cassidy led the team with three sacks. Now the Wildcats
will travel to Hampden-Sydney for their third road game in a row. Davidson hopes to capture their second win of
the season against a team that features a similar level of experience. “Hampden-Sydney is going to be a decent offensive
team. They’ve struggled a bit this season the way we have. We must come out and establish some offense in
the first quarter for us to succeed,” said Landis. Following this weekend’s game, the Wildcats will return for their final
home game against Centre College for Parent’s Weekend on November 5.

SPRING BREAK EARLY SPECIALS

Bahamas Party Cruise for 6 Days, Including 12 Meals $279! Panama City Oceanview Kitchens $129! Cancun and Jamaica $399! Daytona
$159! Keys $229! Cocoa Beach $159!

WANTED: An extremely responsible and dependable person to watch 21-month-old twins. Flexible hours, undergraduate preferred, long-term commitment a plus! Please
contact Missy Rakes at 875-8906 if interested.

Both the women’s and men’s side, the team felt as if it had achieved a personal victory. After the meet
ended, Head Coach Rich DeSelm said, “I don’t think the score reflects our level of accomplishment.” He is referring to
the team’s meet last year against VA Tech, in which the Hokies’ margin of victory was much greater than this
year. Individual wins were picked up by freshmen Heather Sweeney in the 200 IM and 200 breaststroke, Kelly Bolterstein in
the 50, Matt Buck in the 200 breaststroke, Michael Scarbo in the 1000, Freddy Schnell in the 200 freestyle and
200 backstroke, sophomore Suzanne Herring in the 100 free, and diver Michael Hart on both 1m and 3m boards. Solid
performances also came from freshman Allison Beebe, sophomores Meri Mucha and Tim Lim, and junior diver Meg Bentley. The swimming
and diving team will be in action again next weekend when some of its members travel to Chapel Hill to
compete in the Tar Heel Invitational. The women will also compete next Saturday when they face NC State at home.

WANTED!!! Individuals, Student Organizations, and Small Groups to Promote SPRING BREAK ’95. Earn substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS. CALL THE
NATION’S LEADER, INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS 1-800-327-6013.
