OPINIONS 8 MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1994

She said: “AIDS is a plague sent by God on the gay community.” I recall sitting with a group of friends back in 1985, not long after AIDS had begun to break into our society’s consciousness, and being startled and angered when a Christian woman I had grown to respect and who was planning to become a nurse made that remark. I had heard such a view from televangelists that I considered to be judgmental in many of their remarks. I was taken aback, however, that someone who was in many respects a gentle, kind-hearted, and faithful spirit could utter that kind of claim which had no biblical basis and in fact ran counter to the whole thrust of scripture.

The display of the NAMES Project AIDS Memorial Quilt affords those in the Davidson community who value their religious faith an opportunity to reflect on how Christians have responded to the reality of those who suffer with AIDS. Certainly, there are many people of faith who have made personal, compassionate contact with AIDS patients and have worked to promote AIDS education. Witness, for example, the ministry of the Regional AIDS Interfaith Network in Charlotte and the fact that just a few months ago, the new Catholic bishop in this diocese held a healing service centered on AIDS. Too often, however, our response has been far less than good or right. Ignorance, indifference, fear, judgment, twisting of scripture, failure to live out our calling by God—all of these characterize the less-than-Christ-centered response which Christians have exhibited.

A Different Perspective: Ike Bailey - Better leave that white girl alone!

Since I decided to attend Davidson in my senior year in high school up until the present, I have been given this advice constantly: interracial relationships, particularly those between whites and African-Americans, cause several different reactions in both communities, but the reasoning behind the reactions hasn’t been quite clear. The majority of African-American women that I know are not very fond of the concept, for several reasons. Statistics show that there are about ten African-American women to every seven African-American men. Even further, lots of the men are either dying young or are imprisoned. So, there is a feeling that the “few” African-American men that are stable should stay with their race since there are already so few to go around.

But I believe the media plays an even bigger role concerning the negative reactions towards these relationships. For too long, the media has portrayed the stereotypical “beautiful” woman as being thin, small-hipped, with long blonde hair—all features that are usually associated with white women. This portrayal somehow seems to suggest white women are more attractive than African-American women, who, on the average, have distinctly different features. This view can be compared to the view held by most African-Americans about the Confederate flag. To see an African-American male dating a white woman somehow can seem as if African-American men support the theory that “white” is more beautiful. Just as we don’t hate the actual flag, black women don’t hate white women—just the thought of that theory being proven.

Sex also seems to play a major role. There is a mythical theory that African-American men are somehow “inherently” better lovers than white men. So some believe a white woman would date an African-American just to get “satisfied” sexually. And African-American men are supposed to believe that white women make better sexual partners because of their supposed willingness to “experiment.” Even though you can honestly say that some relationships are built around sex, including some same-race relationships, I believe most interracial relationships are not.

People get involved in relationships for sex, money, and because of other stereotypical perceptions all of the time. But to believe all interracial relationships are built on such negatives just doesn’t seem logical. We all make good and bad decisions concerning who we should date, regardless of the race of our mate. In this society, I believe you would have to be...

See Oil and Water on page 9

faith. Cracked Cymbals by Michael A. Slayton

“Now remember, your prescription is very strong. If you look directly into the sun, your head will catch fire.”

...of the Quilt can take on meaning and depth for us as people for whom the loving kindness of God and the resurrection of Jesus are central to existence. To assist in that process, a group of students has planned a service of worship for the college community dealing with the issue of AIDS and faith. This will be held in Lingle Chapel on November 10 at 4:30 p.m. (the afternoon of the opening ceremony of...the Quilt display). Our hope is that through this time of praise, prayer, and scripture reading, we will prepare ourselves to see the Quilt through eyes of compassion. In so doing, we will be able to reflect upon the lives of those who have died of AIDS in the light of God’s passion for all of His children. Perhaps we will even be able to do what I failed to do when my friend said what she did nine years ago: we will stand up to fear, falsehood, and prejudice, naming them for what they are, and we will begin to bear in our lives the truth that because we all are bound together as members of the human family, the sorrow of one is the sorrow of all. In so doing, we may also discover that the strength, hope, and compassion that we have received from God are most fully ours when we give them away freely to others in need.

Rob Spach is the Chaplain of Davidson College.

Rosie Molinary

Answers to your questions: in defense of my stability and your safety

Allow me to answer a few questions. A lot of people have asked, which means even more are thinking about it—so, here goes (this is especially written for my Cafe friends last week who told me I was Monday Night football conversation):

Matthew Hobbie
Matt Rich
Sarah Terry

Who will we be? Davidson's Presbyterian background

A crucial time is upon us. It is time to assess the Presbyterian-related status of Davidson College. We, as members of this community, must decide who we are and who we will be. This issue was brought to the forefront in last week’s SGA meeting in which there was a proposal to amend the rules governing the presidency of the college. The rule in question now states that the president must be an active member of the Presbyterian Church. The amendment would state that the president be a Christian, period. We feel that this is a challenge to our identity as an institution—an identity of Davidson College. We have all seen the sense of community that connects us. This amendment causes us to exclude anyone. The Presbyterian Church encourages its members to engage with everyone and allows decisions to be made from a perspective that affirms its ecumenical ties. It is important that we maintain this perspective, as it is a crucial part of our nationally-acclaimed liberal arts college.

Are my stories true? I won’t even bother with a YES. Let me just say that when you go to a high school of 3,000 people that is the essence of diversity and you aren’t very shy in the first place, you are bound to broaden your horizons.

Am I unhappy or depressed? No, I am not suffering from depression. I am very happy, and that is because I’ve had such a full life with experiences that have really made me stretch. Bad things will happen to you; what is tragic is how you let that affect you.

Will something happen to you if you are friends with me? No, probably not. I’ve known my roommate for nine years now, and she’s still in one piece and mentally stable (well, as stable as she can be living with me); so rest easy. If something does happen to you, I promise to write about it in the next Davidsonian so you'll never be forgotten.

Why don’t you write about something happy, or do you just not have any happy experiences? I have had many happy experiences, but bear in mind that I am pretty easy to please. If I wrote about what a good time I had catching a football last week, you wouldn’t really care. You might not care what I write anyway—but at least it’s some food for thought.

Are you always so serious? Catch me on a dance floor, with any amount of sugar in my system, or late at night when I’m half delirious. You’ll never ask that question again, or you’ll wish the answer was a yes.

What is my point? Bill and Tony are gifted enough to make a situation funny yet meaningful. I, however, cannot ooze great humor onto a computer screen. We are all conscientious people, but in the midst of our busy lives at Davidson, we sometimes overlook or forget about things that are important. My articles are an attempt to place my thoughts together; if they depress you, I am sorry. That is by no means my purpose. I am attempting to relate some of my observations of life to people who I know are going to make some significant changes in our futures. I do not claim to be wise. My only claim is that I have been impressed by life, and I think all of you can relate to that.