4 14 THE DAVIDSONIAN _ SPORTS MONDAY, AUGUST 29, 1994

Football team heads to the islands to play in Bermuda Bowl

By Will Cobb

Big things are happening for Davidson Football this season. Literally. An impressive group of 23 freshmen joined the team and the addition of a season-ending trip to Bermuda to face the University of the South in the 2nd Annual Bermuda Bowl, making this season something to look forward to.

After losing 19 players to graduation, including four-year starters Richard Howell at quarterback and kicker Drew Fasett, many people would consider 1994 a rebuilding year. Not exactly. “The players came back in great shape, the best I’ve seen in the five years I’ve been here. We graduated a lot of linemen, but we’ve brought in a lot of players, too,” said second-year head coach Tim Landis.

The biggest losses occurred on the offensive and defensive lines. The coaching staff earned its keep with a successful recruiting year, filling the holes left from graduation. The major concern for a young team is lack of playing time, but the coaching staff remains confident with the situation.

Women's field hockey shoots for fifth title

By Will Cobb

The women’s field hockey team opens its quest for a fifth consecutive Deep South championship Saturday at Appalachian State and Sunday at home against Duke, two of the area’s stronger teams. Davidson will face a stiff challenge as it has gradually lost the strength of previous teams to graduation. The Wildcats will have nine freshmen this season.

“The initial anxiety I had has dissipated,” coach Betsy Pryor said. “With experience, they will come along.”

In their quest for another Deep South crown, Davidson will miss several key players from last season. “We lack experience coming in, but we’re cautiously optimistic about the outlook,” said Landis.

Quarterbacking the Wildcats will be senior workhorse Kevin Holzworth, the most deserving person for the job. After three years as a backup, Holzworth will finally emerge at the helm. “I expect Kevin to have a good year. He’s healthy, has a great work ethic, and is a super competitor,” said Landis.

Football games are won and lost in the trenches, so timing and strength on the line are invaluable. The only experience returning on the offensive line are Adam Gess and John Cowan, so freshmen will be making an immediate impact. On the other hand, the rest of the offense is set with seniors Bruce Bannister and Shane Mills in the backfield. Expect to see the Cats pass more this year than in the past, so receivers Kirk Roberts and Ike Bailey will be called on frequently.

The defense has just as many open spots for the grabbing. Still, familiar names in Bo Bartholomew and James Cassidy along with anchor Mills Arial will strengthen the Wildcats. A strong senior core will occupy the defensive backfield with Chris Leak, Cedric West, and Andre.

Field hockey coach instructs her players. Photo by Robert Ramsay

The football team practices before school, thinking of their game against Sewanee in Bermuda.Feree, and Mark Kemby. The 1993 season was a big success with a 6-4 record. There are many unanswered questions now for the Wildcats since camp has lasted just one week. “I’m excited, but it will take time. Our defense will have to step it up early to give the offense some time to come around. I’m really impressed with the freshmen. Hopefully, everyone will stay healthy,” said Landis.

For the Wildcats, they have time to work things out. The first game will not be until September 17 at Maryville before returning home for three games. The first will be September 24 against Emory & Henry for Homecoming. All the hard work will have a reward at the end of the season when they compete in the Bermuda Bowl on November 19. “When you play football at this level, you play because you love the game. This is a great reward for young men that work hard at everything they do,” said Landis. There isn’t a more deserving group on campus than the football players, for their effort and contribution to the school on and off the field.

Men's soccer to play UCLA

“Soccer continued from page 14 ~ the Wake Forest Invitational against South Alabama and Manhattan this weekend. “Our confidence is up and we’re ready to play and show people what a small school can do on the national level once again. We have a lot of leadership at every level on the field, but we need fans. Fans are good,” said Suter. “The Coaches are ready, and the players are ready. Now is the time for the fans to get back behind the team to make this season as successful as some of the past. The Cats will play their first home game against The Citadel on September 11 to begin the quest for a Southern Conference title. A big game for this quest will come on September 27 when Davidson travels to face the Furman Paladins.

Cheerleading tryouts Wednesday, 7:00 p.m., Call Jeanette Scire -2378

DREAM WEAVER

"Clothes Make the Man... Naked People Have Little or No Influence on Society" - Mark Twain

So visit the shop of the Dream Weaver for Wearable Art created by American Artists. 106 S. Main Street. Easy care clothing, leather, and jewelry of all mediums. All of this with personal attention. Downtown Davidson.

Photo by Robert Ramsay Coleman. Mary Ferguson will take over at that position. In Pryor’s ninth season at the helm, the Wildcats will again play a tough schedule, but Pryor is pleased they will only play two games on artificial turf. In addition, a rule change will allow unlimited substitutions this season. “Everybody looks like they’re in good shape, working at the highest level of intensity,” she said. “We’re a cohesive group. For a large group, it’s a strong group.” Including goalie Emily Voga.

Welcome Back Davidson Students!

OUTDOORS

Bier Veta

Davidson's Complete Camping and Hiking Store

Shays on the Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn.

TeVa THE SPORT SANDAL.