The Davidsonian

LEIGH RAWDON - Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Executive Editor
MANDY CURTIS - Managing Editor
KATHERINE HASH - News Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY - Ass't News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY - Opinions Editor
JOSH LARNED - Arts Editor
SCOTT MCLEAN - Ass't Arts Editor
WILL COBB - Sports Editor
AMY LAUKKANEN - Photography Editor
ARTHUR GASTON - Copy Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES - Ass't Advertising Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN - Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD - Circulation Manager

Safe speech and free sex

Well, finally someone has taken a stand on this whole freedom of speech issue. In case you missed the good
news, here are a few lines from the story in February 23’s Charlotte Observer:

MOORESVILLE — A group of Mooresville High Students canceled plans for a schoolwide AIDS awareness program after the principal said
they couldn’t use the word “condom.” Principal Joyce Sloop also said they couldn’t invite an AIDS patient to speak, not
even if parents signed permission slips. And Supt. Jane Carrigan said no to a school assembly on AIDS. “The problem
you run into in an open assembly . . . is that you don’t have any control over what people
say,” she said Tuesday.

The First Amendment has plagued lovers of the American dream since the Bill of Rights was passed in 1789. Our
efforts to create in America an ideal and moral society, one lacking conflict and the exchange of dangerous ideas, are
constantly frustrated by the likes of Martin Luther King, Jr., and Betty Friedan who stir people up by saying whatever
they please. To avoid more conflict like that which gripped America in the 1960s, the leaders of our brave new
world must remember the advantages of mass mind control such as that practiced at Mooresville High School.

Sloop’s logic is simple: The idea of “condom” is eternal and innate. But if we prevent our young ones from
hearing the actual word, then they will not be able to conceive of the Platonic form of condomness. Without condomness,
clearly, there is no sexuality and, thus, not even a concept of conception. Therefore, Mooresville High students will never have
sex, children or AIDS.

Though some may see Sloop’s decision as a violation of the First Amendment, we fully agree with her desire to
curb the use of the word “condom.” Her attitude reflects a deep understanding of the teenage mind and culture. No
one in high school ever says “condom,” and to allow students to hear it may corrupt their virgin ears, whether
or not they are virgins themselves.

Superintendent Carrigan said, “It’s not that I don’t support the effort, it’s how it’s done that I’m worried about.” Of
course. Why make students use “condom,” the dull, appropriate word, when we can spark their creative drives by making them
think of new and different ways to talk about love gloves and party hats? And why belabor the point in
a dry school assembly when students can learn about sex away from school in a more romantic environment?

It is incredible that an institution right down the road from Davidson is so far ahead of us in its
educational philosophy. We can only hope that, one day, our own college will follow Mooresville High in its courageous quest
for a safe society.

LETTERS

Laissez-faire is not the answer

To the editors,

I attended Dr. Walter Williams’s lecture last semester, and even after Bill Gullan’s playful restatement of Dr. Williams’s main points
in the latest issue of the Davidsonian (“The Future American Slavery”), I remain unconvinced that a market free of government
intervention can solve all of our ills.

First of all, the argument that we should trust the “invisible hand” to settle important issues in our society strikes
me as pitifully naive. There are many thorny issues, such as homelessness, abortion, and gene technology, which most people would
refuse to leave to the vagaries of the market. Because it operates on the law of supply and demand, the
market cannot tell us when certain “demands” contradict moral and ethical principles.

Secondly, even Dr. Williams himself cannot be consistent in praising the greed and selfishness which he considers the best part
of human nature. In his lecture, Dr. Williams mentioned his children, but failed to comment on what effect his praise
of greed might have on their behavior. I hope that Dr. Williams has taught his children something other than the
value of selfishness.

Finally, Williams revealed his ownIgnorance when he touched upon environmental issues. The extinction of certain species “doesn’t worry” Dr. Williams,
since scientists tell him that most species which have inhabited the earth are extinct anyway, “and whether it is 93
percent or 93.1 percent won’t make much difference.” I suspect that Williams would found his views in a way similar
to that of Rush Limbaugh. In a chapter entitled “Sorry, but the earth is not fragile” in The Way Things
Ought to Be, Limbaugh outlines his faith that God will not let us do irrevocable harm to the environment. “[Environmentalists]
think man can come along, all by himself, and change everything for the worse,” saith Limbaugh, “that after hundreds of
millions of years, the last two generations of human existence are going to destroy the planet. Who do they think
we are?” Obviously, neither Williams nor Limbaugh has relatives in Cracow, Tchernobyl, or Mexico City. But even if they admit
that the environment is in bad shape, neither Williams nor Limbaugh nor Gullan can show us how the market can
improve the situation. Clean air, clean water, and most animal species are not, nor can they ever become, commodities. What
cannot be bought and sold, the market cannot control.

Sincerely,
Brett Marston, ‘94

Don't ignore the Chess Club.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to:
The Davidsonian
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036.
Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.

The Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to
edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of
the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views
of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is
held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

This is to express my utter disappointment with the editorship and the sense of fairness displayed by the editors of
The Davidsonian, specifically, in their continuous discrimination against the Davidson Chess Club. The Chess Club, in its first year of
existence, has already done much more than merely prove itself. For example, this year alone, the Club’s impressive achievements included
a North Carolina State Chess Champion title, second and third places; second and third place in the United States Closed
Class Championships; first, second, and fourth in Land of the Sky—the biggest and most prestigious chess tournament held in the
South; and numerous other prizes and trophies. Notwithstanding, by far the Club’s greatest triumph, in a sense both personal and
collective, proved to be the title “best small college on the American Continents,” and the national recognition the chess team
won over Christmas break at the 1993 Pan American Collegiate Chess Championships in DeLand, Florida. The Club’s victory was as
amazing as it was important for the future of this noble game at Davidson.

Quite unfortunately, The Davidsonian’s willingness to cooperate in spreading the news about the Chess Club’s successes and events, and in
publishing articles regularly turned in by the Chess Club, has been second to nonexistent. The editors’ indifference, despite numerous promises
to include submitted materials in the “next issue,” comes close to deliberate neglect and discrimination. For instance, out of the
four articles submitted by the Chess Club during the past two months, the only item which actually made it through
the printing presses was the picture of the Club’s four national champions. Not only was the accompanying article reduced to
a four-line caption with four ridiculous typographical mistakes, but the picture could only be located on the second to last
page. The lead story for that issue was an editorial on Davidson Outdoors, and while we have nothing against that
particular organization, I would like to have The Davidsonian’s editors point out how many times the participants in an outing
trip have brought home a national, let alone a Pan American title.

Please, don’t get me wrong! Although a degree of bitter outrage might be transpiring through the style of this letter,
I’m not suggesting that The Davidsonian go out of its way to cover every possible chess event. What we in
the Chess Club do ask for, however, is that the editors of our otherwise fine weekly publica-

See Rook on page?
