16 THE DAVIDSONIAN

A few minutes with the jazz man ~ Terrence Blanchard

I know that you’ve done a number of movie soundtracks and orchestral scores for films. When Spike Lee asks you to do his music, what sort of restrictions are on you versus when you record an album of your own?

When a director like Spike comes to me, he’s looking for me to enhance his vision in my own style. He obviously has something in mind and is looking for a relatively specific creative thing, but beyond keeping with the mood or the storyline, the compositions have few restrictions.

You mentioned that your next album was commissioned by the Lincoln Center jazz organization. I’ve seen discs by Wynton Marsalis with some sort of “Lincoln Center All-Star Big Band,” but I’ve also heard a magnificent suite by Roy Hargrove that he said was commissioned by the LC. What is it they want you to do? Do you have restrictions like with soundtracks?

No, they have asked me to write some sort of large work. There aren’t any restrictions. It is my own personal creative expression they are looking for.

I was reading an interview with John Coltrane shortly before his death and ‘Trane was asked what sort of linkage there is between jazz and politics. He replied that people are always looking to find a political message in music and that sometimes the artist and the audience get different things out of the same music. With jazz having been largely originated and, to a lesser extent, perpetuated by African-Americans, what sort of correlation do you see?

For some, politicization is inevitable; politics are a large part of life. Some musicians are overtly political, some are not. As for racism, it definitely plays a role in how music is marketed. My music is based on my personal artistic expression, but that naturally overlaps with the social condition which means that politics are involved. But I would say that politics in most cases are brought in after the creation of the music; that is, many musicians are popular and many aren’t. Political statements sell, whether they be intensely personal, something the record company uses in marketing, or the work of an angry musician, but it is very difficult to separate the music from the world in which we live.

Since the late 60’s, when people like Albert Ayler, Pharoah Sanders, and Eric Dolphy were doing the “new thing” in their music, and in the 70’s when Weather Report was formed, it seemed that innovation in jazz has gradually decreased. With Wynton Marsalis, Roy Hargrove, and other young, unabashed jazz traditionalists packing them in and selling albums, do you think that conventional jazz now dominates the scene again?

You're right. There is less “out there” jazz being produced, or at least entering the mainstream. The trend is to go back. It’s kind of a shame. Jazz is big business now. It needs to be acceptable to large numbers of people, you know, mass marketing, which makes guys like Roy Hargrove even more appealing. I do not agree that the creative process has in any way slowed down, though. These just aren’t the musicians we hear, whereas avant-garde jazz in the 60’s, when clubs were king, turned on many people. It’s just harder to find. The marketing trend is back to the mainstream.

Who are some of your influences, whether it be in writing or on the trumpet? I’ve read how many compare you to early 60’s Miles, but I thought I heard some Freddie Hubbard and Lee Morgan in your high, driving solos.

Clifford Brown and Miles were the first two I listened to, but you’re very perceptive. The soloing styles of Freddie Hubbard and Clark Terry excited me.me and made me reach as high as I could with the music and as deep as I could with the composition. Lastly, nights like this are great for the future of jazz in America. I’m sure at least twenty people walked out of the auditorium saying, “Gosh that was incredible.” How are we to assure that jazz catches on on campus? Other than word of mouth, there are three structured ways I see jazz making an impression on young people. First, we need music appreciation to be included in the curriculum. That will help expose people to the music. Second, artists should come in and talk to students and tell them what inspires us, what makes us write and play the way we do. Third, live performances like tonight can interest young people in the music. Thank you for your time and your wonderful performance here tonight.

BY BILL GULLAN

Terence Blanchard.

BACK PAGE INTERVIEW
MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1994
Photo by Rob Kosicki

‘A non-Davidson experience’

Ask anyone who was there what they thought. The several hundred people who attended the Terence Blanchard (with his quartet) performance in Love Auditorium Saturday night, not only witnessed an outstanding performance; but many also had, as they described it, a “non-Davidson experience.” Of course, Davidson is not the most cosmopolitan school, but the two-hour performance had many bobbing their heads to the beat, eyes closed, savoring every note from Terence Blanchard’s trumpet.

Any jazz soloist worth his or her salt uses the rhythm section (bass, drums, and piano) as a springboard to propel their sound into the stratosphere, reaching other-worldly dimensions. Any tight rhythm section knows how to keep the soloist from going past the ceiling that is the melodic structure of the music. The springboard/ceiling dichotomy that characterizes an effective jazz group was present nowhere in my experience more than on Saturday night. Terence Blanchard’s solos soared, while the bass kept time, the drums forcefully added exclamation points to Blanchard’s horn (while holding the group together), and the piano filled in the gaps of the theme, while contributing some inventive soloing of his own. Talented, enthusiastic, and inspirational, the quartet wowed the audience with some tunes from Blanchard’s most recent album, The Billie Holiday Songbook, as well as with one stunning selection from his next album, to be recorded in “several weeks.”

However, Davidson acquitted itself well. The crowd was large (with many from The Pines and Charlotte). I overheard someone from Charlotte saying how he had turned down Chapel Hill basketball tickets for it, and his friend admitted that, because the event was on campus, we drew a larger crowd than would have probably shown up had the quartet performed at Spirit Square. Although the acoustics in Love are terrible and the atmosphere is decidedly non-jazz, Terence Blanchard seemed pleased with the crowd’s exuberant response to his music. A rotund fellow with a broad smile and a deep quiet voice, Blanchard appeared accessible and easy to talk to. The arrogance and impatience one might expect from a world-renowned artist was not apparent in Blanchard. He conversed with many of the people who attended the reception (held afterward in the Gallery), and was willing to give me a short interview, the text of which is included.

Ask anyone who was there what they thought: the several hundred people who attended the Terence Blanchard concert.

Good luck on your exams and final papers from the Davidsonian editors.

Students, Do Your Christmas Shopping At OUTDOORS

Davidson Students Receive 15% off any regularly priced item in the store. Offer good Now until December 15.

Patagonia
MOONSTONE BAGS AND OUTDOOR CLOTHING
Shops on the Green: Exit 28. Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn