THE DAVIDSONIAN - MONDAY, APRIL 18, 1994

LEIGH RAWDON - Editor in Chief  
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Executive Editor  
MANDY CURTIS - Managing Editor  
KATHERINE HASH - News Editor  
ASHLYN DANNELLY - Ass't News Editor  
ROBERT RAMSAY - Opinions Editor  
JOSH LARNED - Arts Editor  
SCOTT MCLEAN - Ass't Arts Editor  
WILL COBB - Sports Editor  
AMY LAUKKANEN - Photography Editor  
ARTHUR GASTON - Copy Editor  
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist  

Founded in 1914  
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"  

BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager  
KENNON GILES - Ass't Advertising Manager  
JENNIFER JULYAN - Business Manager  
MARIA WHITEHEAD - Circulation Manager  

Thank you, Mr. Baker

Not everyone at Davidson thinks very long about another donor giving yet another gift to our college. Too often we are blind to the donors, their families, and their commitment to Davidson simply because the effects of their contributions are not always immediate or directly visible to most students. Thompson S. Baker’s gift of $5 million for merit scholarships is something we should all recognize, though, not only for its overwhelming generosity, but for the impact it will have on the future of our college.

The largest monetary gift from a single person in Davidson’s history, Baker’s donation will fund scholarships sure to bring unprecedented changes to the face of our campus. Finally, Davidson can begin to compete with the prestigious merit scholarships of other colleges, which, in the past, have drawn away some of our best admissions candidates. Firmly establishing the college within the student scholarship competition, the Baker scholarships will provide the added attraction Davidson has lacked for so long, and they will entice the brightest and most talented students to give our school a closer look.

As Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid Nancy Cable Wells stated Saturday, the scholarships will draw students of varying talents and from broad backgrounds across the nation and around the world. Of course, Davidson will still have its present scholarships available, including the Stuart Scholarships, the Patricia Cornwell Writing Award, and the new William Terry scholarship. The Baker scholarships, however, will rank alongside UNC’s Morehead and Tennessee’s Whittle scholarships, which offer incoming freshmen a “full ride” for four years.

As we reach the last stages of the Campaign for Davidson, we feel it fitting to show our respect and gratitude to the many who have given not only their time but also their money and support to the college community. This kind of philanthropy and civic spirit is truly remarkable, and we, along with future Davidsonians, are indebted beyond measure. Thank you, Mr. Baker, for everything you’ve done.

Thank you, Mr. Styron

In this week’s Newsweek, William Styron explores the suicide of Vincent Foster, a Davidson graduate and Clinton aide. Styron writes, “[Davidson’s] venerable Calvinism, although liberalized in recent decades, has inculcated in its students a belief that hard work, material success, civic virtue and creative achievement are the real guarantors of mental health.” He continues to claim that “Davidson’s values left their mark” on Foster and implies that they helped to push him down the path to self-destruction.

Our first instinct may be to disregard Styron’s claims altogether. His statements are, indeed, purely speculative, but Styron, a short-term Davidson student himself, poses an important question for other Davidsonians to consider even now. What mark does Davidson leave on its graduates? Diligence, wealth, creativity, and altruism are admirable goals, but they are not the only ones we value. Ideal Davidson graduates carry away with them their own priorities and the ability to fulfill them how they choose. Davidson does teach us that success is the key to happiness, but a definition of success is what it challenges its students to discover for themselves. At least in 1994, the college administration does not presume to know all the answers. Styron’s assertions are not entirely invalid, but they do oversimplify what our college is about.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Sanitation report unfair

To the editors,

In response to William Robert’s article on sanitation in Patterson Court houses, we think a few points need to...be made. How can a person with no training in the subject rank the Patterson Court houses with such precision? The figures are presented as if they were fact. Since the author of the article has not received the years of training that health inspectors are required to undergo, he has no business even attempting to make such precise measurements. His rankings are nothing more than his opinions and do not belong on the front page, but on the opinion page. We do not see why Mr. Robert is inspecting us on regulations we are not even required to meet. Even restaurants that are required to meet these regulations are given a week’s notice before inspection. If problems are found, they are informed of the problem and given another chance before a grade is given. At Sigma Phi Epsilon we use the necessary chemical disinfectants and are extremely careful about maintaining sanitary conditions in our kitchen. We know the responsibilities of serving food to large numbers of our brothers. We take this responsibility seriously and take pride in doing this job well. We resent the fact that The Davidsonian is failing us on a test we do not have to pass. We also resent the manner in which the results are presented, which leads the readers to believe that the tests were carried out by a trained professional.

Sincerely,
Dennis Rice, Certified Executive Chef, Sigma Phi Epsilon
Tripp Winslow, Vice-president, Sigma Phi Epsilon

Styron and Foster

To the editors,

As a Davidson College contemporary of Vincent Foster, Jr., I must say that I found William Styron’s piece about Foster’s alleged suicide unpersuasive. The observations of the symptoms of Foster’s supposed depression: weight loss, no appetite, and insomnia, all come from vague, unattributed sources. Those who will speak for the record describe an apparently perfectly normal, solid-as-ever Vince Foster in his final days. Concerning the tangible evidence, you must know that the circumstances of the discovery of the list of psychiatrists and the torn-up note are both subjects of controversy, and that no drug, anti-depressant or otherwise, was found in his system at the autopsy. I agree that religion was an important part of the mid-60s Davidson experience, but the ultimate-rich-playboy social fraternity to which Vince belonged seemed to have found an effective bacchanalian antidote to any Calvinist guilt that might have rubbed off. Though the ruminations of one emotionally troubled novelist might be intriguing, they are no substitute for the thorough, open investigation that this important case demands.

Sincerely,
Gary D. Martin
Chantilly, Virginia

20 people do not a party make

To the editors,

Last Friday night, during the Everything concert on Patterson Court, several Davidson police officers kept the peace by breaking up a party at one of the court houses. This “party” consisted of a group of people sitting around socializing. The lights were on in the house and there was no music and no alcohol being served. Most of the people were either waiting to use the bathroom or simply trying to get out of the cold. Despite the wine and cheese atmosphere of the crowd, Davidson’s finest decided that the gala must stop. The police cited the college’s rule that any gathering over 20 people constitutes a party. Since this “party” was unregistered, it could not continue. It seems to me that gatherings such as this one are the type that Davidson has been promoting since the implication of that notorious alcohol policy last year. You have a bunch of people standing around talking, with no rampant violence, no random injuries, and no excessively obnoxious behavior. Wait—I forgot, there were over twenty people, so things must be out of control. As much as some students are inclined to blame the police for dispersing this peaceful gathering, we cannot hold them entirely responsible. The true perpetrator here remains the ridiculous 20-person rule. The police were merely performing their duties. Is there really a need for this rule? I doubt it. Should we start registering a party when twenty people gather in a dorm lounge to watch a game, or when the members of an eating house assemble for a meal? I agree that there is some need to regulate parties on the court, but this rule is impractical. Perhaps if there were some clause in the rule to only warrant the dispersal of a gathering if the group becomes too loud or destructive, then it would make more sense. However, as it stands, the rule is too general and misused by college officials.

Sincerely,
Jeff Kent
Class of 1996