RTS & LIVING MONDAY, APRIL 4, 1994

Instrumental ensembles return for home concert

By Jacob Abraham

Fresh from their Florida tour over spring break, the Davidson Wind Ensemble put on a strong and professional performance for
the community Thursday night. The group was led by Dr. William D. Lawing, an accomplished conductor, musician, and chair of
the Music Department. “This group is better than any group I’ve had in four or five years,” said Dr. Lawing
afterwards. His group's performance proved him correct.

The evening began with Dmitri Shostakovich’s “Festive Overture, Op. 96,” which provided a joyous and festive opening for the concert.
William Schumann’s “New England Triptych” followed—a tribute to early American music. Schumann was one of the most prominent American composers
of the ‘50s and ‘60s. He modeled this particular piece after three 18th-century hymns by William Billings, a colonial American
composer. Billings wrote the hymns to be sung in the round, and the first two movements emulated this structure as
different instruments came in at different times playing the same melody. The exciting and victorious first movement, entitled “Be Glad
Then, America,” sharply contrasted the second movement, “When Jesus Wept,” a somber and moving piece. This movement featured two difficult
solos by Tom Vanderbloemen ‘97 on trumpet and Seth Huckabee ‘94 on baritone. “Chester,” the third movement, consisted mostly of
free variations and provided an adventurous and uplifting conclusion.

John Barnes Chance’s “Variations on a Korean Folk Song” had its basis in a simple folk song known commonly throughout
Korea. This playful, colorful piece relied heavily on various percussion sounds which supplied it with an Eastern feel.

The crowd became more responsive during the second half of the performance as the Davidson Jazz Ensemble took over. The
group played five swinging, big-band tunes with a more relaxed tone. The first was “Lullaby of Broadway,” a popular show
tune from the musical 42nd Street and a jazz standard from the ‘30s and ‘40s. The trombone section, consisting mostly
of freshmen, was featured prominently in the second song, “Bon Voyage.” The ensemble continued with Chuck Corea’s “One More Time,”
which had a Latin/Spanish flavor. This song included bass and guitar solos by Jonathan Pieslak ‘96 and Frank Gusek ‘94,
as well as strong trumpet work from Mike Weber ‘95. Lewis Hoffman ‘97 on trombone and Karl Ruch ‘96 on
drums.

See Concert on page 11.

THE MINT

By Josh Larned

Charlotte’s tremendous growth in recent years has resulted in its exciting transformation into a center for the visual arts in
the Carolina region. This cultural development can be seen in the steady arrival of art galleries to the area as
well as in Davidson’s own VAC, but nowhere is North Carolina's artistic maturing more evident than in Charlotte's Mint Museum
of Art.

North Carolina’s first art museum, the Mint Museum has a reputable collection of American, European, African, and pre-Columbian art. While
art museums in other cities are well-known for making the visual arts accessible to many, the Mint Museum (despite its
continually improving collection) has often been overlooked as a regional center to fill the cultural void in the arts that
has existed for so long in North Carolina. But the Mint's anonymity is quickly waning as the museum’s capacity for
extending the visual arts into the broader community has increased manyfold upon its receipt of a $1.25 million grant by
the Lila Wallace-Reader’s Digest Fund this past January. The grant was awarded to the Mint Museum with the specific purpose
of “making its permanent collections more accessible to people of diverse backgrounds.” George V. Grune, the fund's chairman, attributes the
Mint Museum’s receipt of this highly competitive award to “the high quality of its permanent collections and a strong track
record in public education and community outreach.”

Photo courtesy of the Mint Museum
Mint Museum of Art
Charlotte's very own Mint Museum hosts a myriad of different art expositions that Davidson students enjoy. Richard Miller's 1914 The
Toilette is one.of 50 works in an American Impressionism exhibit of Georgia Collectors at the Mint this spring. outreach activities.”
Indeed, such a drive to entertain and educate the surrounding community is fully apparent in the museum's annual Mint Collegiate
Art Symposium, a gathering for outstanding area undergraduate art history students. Students submit original research on works of art or
artists represented in the Mint’s Collections. Selected researches become permanent additions to the Museum Library. This year, Olga Krimon, a
senior at Davidson, was one of four students chosen to make a presentation of their research at the symposium. Krimon’s
project, entitled “Off the Pedestal: the Sculptural Bases of Rodin and Bourdelle,” proved to be one of the more enlightening
lectures of the gathering. In addition, the Mint Museum has done a fine job of bringing in impressive collections to
the Charlotte area. From April 9 to June 19, the museum will be host to “American Impressionism in Georgian Collections”—an
exhibition of 50 paintings, watercolors, gouaches, pastels, and drawings from public and private collections and organized by the Georgia Museum
of Art. The exhibition featuring works by Richard Miller, William James Glackens, and Childe Hassam conveys the profound influence of
the French Impressionists upon turn-of-the-century American painters. Charlotte's Mint has quickly become the base for visual arts in the Carolinas
and proves that we should not look only to cities like New York to indulge our artistic interests.

_We all scream for ice cream

Our sports and assistant news editor check out the local flavors.

By Will Cobb and Ashlyn Dannelly

With the recent opening of Baskin-Robbins in Cornelius and the fall opening of Ben and Jerry’s in Davidson, the area’s
options for ice cream have increased greatly this year. As students become overwhelmed with the variety of frozen delights, a
comprehensive look at their choices is in order.

Baskin-Robbins

The newest of the local cold spots has been open for two weeks and offers a truly modern approach to
ice cream. When you enter the store, prepare yourself for bright lighting, pink neon, an exceptionally clean environment, and eager,
helpful servers. They will immediately ask you if you would like to try the flavor of the month, which for
April is the surprisingly tasty Cinnamon Almond Tax Crunch.

Ben & Jerry's may be the closest but not the only option. The ice cream was sufficiently creamy and tasted
average on the whole. The chocolate, however, was excellent. In fact, about one-third of the flavors offered by Baskin-Robbins include
a variation of chocolate, and many flavors include a caramel ribbon or some type of nut. The store offers the
best variety of sherbets in the area, as well as fat-free soft-serve yogurt and several light, sugar-free, or fat-free ice
creams. We tried the light Espresso & Cream, and while it was not as rich as regular ice cream, it
was still pretty flavorful. The Pralines and Cream earns a big thumbs up for its robust flavor. The ice cream
was helped by fresh cones that stayed crispy throughout the eater’s visit. Scoop sizes were below average in comparison to
other area stores.

Flavors

Many health-conscious Davidson students frequent Flavors for its selection of fat-free and low-fat soft-serve yogurts. However, we were unimpressed by
the store’s limited flavor selection and unclean tables. We did like the background music, which was quiet and relaxing. The
vanilla yogurt left something to be desired, as it left an annoying artificial aftertaste. The chocolate was better, with a
stronger flavor. We also tasted the peanut butter yogurt, which was the tastiest of the three. But, we made the
mistake of asking for a Snickers topping. The candy was quite stale. For coffee lovers, this store is heaven. It
offers a large selection of fresh beans as well as a variety of cappuccinos and coffee. The service was excellent,
with the new owner being more than attentive. You also get your money’s worth, with value increasing exponentially as cup
sizes increase.
