THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

The Week in Washington

Clinton focuses on future battles

By Brett Marston

President Clinton delivered his televised State of the Union message before Congress this past Tuesday, focusing primarily on the upcoming
battles for welfare reform and his national health care proposals. As usual, Clinton’s delivery left much to be desired. Clinton
is hardly a convincing speaker—the generous applause which punctuated nearly every sentence of his speech had more to do with
spectacle and partisanship than with whatever Clinton himself found fit to say.

But let us give credit where credit is due. The State of the Union message has rarely been controversial or
exciting. Reviewing the messages of presidents from Washington to Johnson, Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr. writes that presidents “tended to employ
the rhetoric of consensus seeking to minimize differences, to mollify opposition and to court support. Abrasive issues were often swathed
and submerged” (see the introduction to The State of the Union Messages of the Presidents, 1790-1966: Vol. I, New York:
Chelsea, 1967).

For all of his laudatory rhetoric, Clinton did breach controversial topics in a straightforward manner and did not shy away
from confronting his opponents on difficult issues. “For too many families, even when both parents were working, the American dream
has been slipping away,” he contended after a short introduction in which he remembered the late Tip O’Neill. Claiming that
his victorious presidential campaign in 1992 represented a “vote for change” from the American people, Clinton outlined his speech and
his major legislative proposals for the coming months: “And so tonight, let us resolve to continue the journey of renewal,
to create more and better jobs, to guarantee health security for all, to reward work over welfare, to promote democracy
abroad and to begin to reclaim our streets from violent crime and drugs and gangs, to renew our American community.”

Clinton spoke at length about the status of the economy and his Administration’s deficit reduction plans. “In one year, with
NAFTA, with GATT, with our efforts in Asia and the national export strategy, we did more to open world markets
to American products than at any time in the last two generations,” he claimed. “That means more jobs and rising
living standards for the American people.” He also mentioned defense conversion, increased investment in new technology, environmental protection laws, the
creation of an “information superhighway,” educational reform, and an overhaul of the unemployment system.

Perhaps the most fiery topics which Clinton discussed were the welfare system, which Clinton claimed “defies our values as a
nation,” and his proposals for health care reform. Clinton pledged to veto any legislation which does not insure every American
“private health care insurance that can never be taken away.” “I know there are people here who say there’s no
health care crisis,” he said, anticipating the Republican response which was televised directly following his speech. “Tell it to the
58 million people who have no coverage at all for some time this year. Tell it to the 81 million
Americans with pre-existing conditions... Tell it to the small businesses burdened by skyrocketing costs of insurance.”

True to his record for the past twelve months, the President mentioned foreign affairs only briefly. Displaying his preference for
dry, biting humor as well as his aspirations to the presidency, Senate minority leader Bob Dole delivered the televised Republican
response to Clinton’s message. References to Reagan’s rhetorical style were unmistakable in his choppy phrases and his attempts to convey
a “tough guy” image. Dole attacked Clinton’s health care reform proposal as another potentially expensive and inefficient government program, drawing
viewers’ attention to a chart of the government bureaucracy which he claims the President’s plan would create. Dole also expressed
his concerns that defense cuts have been too deep, Democratic leadership in Congress too soft on crime, and a Democratic
president too insincere in his promise to reduce the deficit. He ended with a mix of praise for America and
American leadership in the world. Quotes from Clinton’s speech are from the New York Times.

The Dean Rusk Program

War & Peace: DC holds model UN meeting

By Saad Gul

Six Davidson students headed to UNC Charlotte last Saturday for the Carolina’s Model United Nations meet. Warren Buford, Yaroslav Bruiswick,
Saad Gul, Jon Hutzley, Chris Russell and Thomas Wang represented the college in a joint effort between the Dean Rusk
Program and the International Student Association arranged by Russell and Wang. The idea was conceived when Russell and Wang, both
having extensive MUN experience in high school, were surprised to find that there was no existing MUN at Davidson. The
two brought up the idea at Dean Rusk SAC and ISA meetings, and got the go-ahead. While a dearth of
funds prevented immediate membership of the National meet in New York, the Carolina’s conference was approved as a pilot project.

A few problems did hamper the organization, even in its embryonic stage. Delays and administrative problems meant that Davidson’s country
assignments of Cuba and Germany were not intimated to the organizers until after Christmas. This meant that the team, which
was supposed to be at the meet the first weekend of the semester, did not have enough time to prepare.
Able delegates like Eric Collings were lost to other scheduled events like athletic meets. In fact, on the morning of
the conference, even the minimum number of required delegates was not met.of eight were not available. It was decided to
execute the plan as intended, but with extensive circulation on the part of the delegates among all the available committees,
including the International Court of Justice, the Security Council, and the Economic and Social Councils. Especially when taking into account
the relative inexperience of some delegates, the conference went off amazingly well. By the end of the first session, most
delegates were well into the swing of things and were beginning to think and live their assigned roles. The debate
was lively, preparation good, and insights intelligible. Some of the items on the agenda were relatively commonplace like the Third
World Debt; others were current like the crisis in Bosnia; some were long-term as in the environment; while some were
downright obscure, like Kashmir. On the lighter side, in the last part of the evening, a Cuban proposed to the
Security Council to send peacekeeping troops to the household.

In the judging, Davidson did well, with both delegations winning “distinguished delegations” awards, as well as one Dubious Distinction Individual
Award, the Boutros-Boutros Award for the Most Diplomatic Use of a Phrase from the Cuban delegate to the Security Council.
The team’s success has sparked an increased fervor in Model UN meets with the next ambition being the Southern Regionals
in Georgia. Anyone who would like to help out should contact Chris Russell or Thomas Wang.

MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 1994

NOTES

“It doesn’t make any sense to me that our nation accounts for 40 percent of all health care spending around
the world, and we have only 5 percent of the people. It doesn’t make any sense to me that what
we get for that additional spending is a lower proportion of citizens with health care than the other industrial countries.
And listen to this one: A typical insurance policy here provides less coverage than in any of the other major
industrial countries...”
-remarks from Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen printed in The Washington Post on Thursday, January 27.

A million Mrs. Bobbitts

“Lorena Bobbitt’s response to being continually raped, sodomized, and beaten by her husband was uniquely bizarre. But her situation was
commonplace. What happened to Mrs. Bobbitt happens, in varying degrees, to more than a million American women every year.

“In 1992 the Senate Judiciary Committee issued a staff report titled “Violence Against Women: A Week in the Life of
America,” a depressing litany of sexual assaults, physical abuse, knifings, and shootings. The victims are women; the perpetrators are, for
the most part, their husbands and lovers.

“The report is only 22 pages long, but each page is enough to turn the stomach. It also serves to
put Lorena Bobbitt in perspective. She is quite simply, one of a crowd.”
-from an editorial in the Friday, January 28 issue of The New York Times.

Can you be guilty of being thought guilty?

“If in today’s Andy Warhol world you can now be famous for being famous, can you also be guilty of
being thought guilty? How far can the scandal process go before someone finally has to say just what the accused
official is guilty of?

“Our political scandals have now become as stylized as Kabuki drama. There is the character of the High Official, brought
low by long-ago sins. The Opposition Leader, pressing the scandal forward as far and fast as possible. The Inquiring Journalist,
nobly enraged by lack of access to documents. The smooth Damage Controller. The Shady Character from the High Official’s past.

“Have we gotten so good that we no longer need any substantive information to keep the drama going?”
-from a commentary piece in The Philadelphia Inquirer, Saturday, January 22.

Capitalism marches in Asia

“The Senate vote this week to lift the embargo on Vietnam recognizes the tremendous potential for trade with our former
enemy and the entire region. Americans are just beginning to awaken to the fact that two-way trade with the Asian-Pacific
Rim already exceeds our commerce with the European Union, or a combination of our North and South American neighbors.

“This potential for increased trade and more U.S. jobs springs from the fact that capitalism is on the march in
Asia. If Adam Smith and Karl Marx could visit Beijing and Hanoi today, they would be shocked to see countries
like China and Communist Vietnam sprinting toward capitalism.”
-from a commentary written by Arlen Specter, the senior senator from Pennsylvania, in the Friday, January 28 issue of The
Wall Street Journal.

FINANCIAL AID AWARENESS MONTH

In the spirit of this special designation, we invite students to call or visit the Financial Aid Office to ask
questions.

Q: How do I apply for need-based aid for 1994-95?
A: Submit a Financial Aid Form (FAF) and a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) to the College Scholarship
Service by March 15. The Davidson College Application for Financial Assistance must be submitted to the Financial Aid Office by
May 1.

Q: How do I apply for a merit/honor scholarship?
A: Submit The Merit/Honor Application to the Financial Aid Office. Two honor recommendations from faculty such as these are also
required.

Q: How do I know if I'm eligible for any financial aid?
A: Check with the Financial Aid Office, #1 Jackson Court, 892-2232. Most full-time students will qualify for a federal student
loan, scholarships, and more.

Q: What sources of assistance are available to me and my family?
A: Again, check with the Financial Aid Office. Possibilities may include loans, jobs, payment plans, outside scholarships, and more.

FEBRUARY IS
