Gull’s Nest
Bill Gullan

He's back, and he's got another list. I am not in the habit of issuing the obligatory Freshman welcome, and
between checking in my fellows (incidentally, 2nd Little is the best hall on campus) and setting up Howdie’s den of
love, I haven’t had too much time to think of a topic. I am, however, going to give you new
folks some needed information in the form of one of my columns from last year. As some (one) returning students
will recall, I listed popular movie titles and tied them to Davidson experiences and people. Here are some more.

1. Cannonball Run—The rush to the bathroom after lunch at the Commons.
2. Reality Bites—The freshmen guys’ feeling when the upperclassmen come back to steal their women.
3. Spanking the Monkey—Post-Reality Bites syndrome.
4. It's a Wonderful Life—My first class is at ten.
5. A Few Good Men—2nd Little.
6. A Perfect World—What it would be if everyone stopped ridiculing me.
7. The Wise Men—2nd Little Hall counselors.
8. True Lies—“Yeah, I broke up with her before I came to school.”
9. Spies Like Us—An RA job description.
10. Puttin’ on the Ritz—What I’m doing when I don my green “residential staff” polo shirt.

Also, let me just make one brief comment about Kindred, the book the freshmen read (!?) over the summer. It
is actually a fine book, with an interesting plot, and it is “hard to put down.” However, haven’t we all
had enough of this multi-cultural harmony stuff? We’ve all been invited to attend Davidson, and it, unlike many other schools,
takes character into account in the application process. We already respect cultural differences. And even if we didn’t, why would
a tedious grabfest turn a devout racist into Mother Theresa? It wouldn’t; only personal experience breaks barriers of ignorance. And
reading a science fiction book about slavery and time travel sure isn’t going to do the job. If we do
decide to make Freshmen read a book, why not let it be representative of Davidson’s mission as an institution? How
about a book extolling the virtues of being honest and not phony like A Prayer for Owen Meany by John
Irving? If we do, however, feel that our eventual—and most important—goal as an institution is simply to graduate sensitive people,
we’ve chosen an okay book, but we’re aiming too low as a college.

THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, AUGUST 29, 1994

Scott Hile
Above and beyond the law

I just couldn’t start a year without griping about Davidson’s alcohol policy. I just figured we would go ahead and
get it out of our system now to make room for other things to put into our system, like beer.
The problem arises from the new “same rules, new enforcement” policy that seems to be the college’s new stance. I
understand the need to enforce North Carolina law and keep the school’s exposure to insurance problems at a minimal level.
Alas, no, our gripe is not with the legislation necessitating this policy, or with the college for enforcing it. It
is with (1) the way RA’s and hall counselors are expected to enforce the policy on their fellow students and
(2) with the way persons of legal drinking age are treated beyond North Carolina’s laws.

First, RA’s and hall counselors, conscientious people who take on responsibility for the good of their school, are asked to
do too much when they are given no leeway in dealing with drinking in the residence halls or in the
senior apartments. They are students too, and should not be threatened with losing their jobs if they let their classmates
go with a warning. I have even heard from unnamed RA’s that they would not have chosen the job if
they had been told before their retreat that they would be required to perform this duty upon their return to
school. Other RA’s have commented that they wonder who will be willing to take on this duty next year knowing
what the job is to require.

Second, those who are old enough to drink can be slapped with an alcohol violation, not only for drunkenness or
driving under the influence, but for carrying alcoholic beverages outside of designated drinking areas. Here, the college must feel that
the state laws are not stringent enough. Davidson has created its own law so that even a 21-year-old can’t walk
across campus with an exposed, unopened bottle of whisky or a case of beer. Police and RA’s must give violations
to everyone carrying alcohol outside of the assigned areas. This is to include beer or wine in plastic grocery bags
where it is still somewhat visible. The basis for this rule is that if an RA should see the beer
or wine through the bag and still...look the other way, the RA would be partially to blame if the beer
or wine caused someone to drive drunk, etc. This is pushing contributory negligence to an extreme. This aspect of the
policy is absurd because it deprives people of rights given to them by North Carolina state law and makes for
obvious logistical problems with transporting alcohol from a car to the apartments or the dorms. Please, let’s reconsider these two
excesses of the alcohol policy and help our students respect the law without being antagonized by its enforcers. Otherwise beware—because
Big Brother is watching.

FOUR faces of THE Fears and foc PHOMORE
Scott M. Lenhart
BUSBA TUNIOR
Skivey SENIOR

from the outside in

I begin this article with the question I’ve been bombarded with during the last few days. I spent my summer
disguised as Mega-Tourist carrying around my trusty backpack and camera seeing everything one can imagine in that continent across the
pond. Now, I am back to complete my final tour of duty at Davidson. A couple of nights ago, I
had a rare semi-coherent discussion at the new apartments, that glowing nursing-home-space-ship down the hill, and I faced some of
the thoughts and fears concerning the ever-looming question, “what’s going to happen after graduation.”

No, I didn’t discover any answers that I can pass on to you, nor did I really come any closer
to understanding things for myself. The only thing I can offer to you is some advice right now. Seniors and
under-class men and women, take it or toss it aside. I don’t care.

This summer, I was in London studying theater, and as many who go abroad for any period of time, I
realized something very important. One: I traveled a lot and saw all of this old stuff which will make me
sound oh-so-posh at future dinner parties. Two: I learned what it means to be an American once I got out.
You look at your life, family, food, beer, TV, everything in some new and strange way. You see from the
outside in. Three (and this was the shocker): I experienced the necessary disillusionment of knowing that there are hundreds of
people who are as intelligent and talented as myself and who have focused their lives and accomplished much more than
I could ever dream of. I'm not trying to pity myself, but this is going to give me the needed
second wind that will carry me to the graduating finish line.

Look from the inside out, but occasionally switch perspective and see yourself from the outside. We are receiving some of
the best liberal arts education in the country. It is liberal in the sense of the scope of studying provided
by our professors, but it is time, especially for seniors, to sharpen the angles of generality and, to use a
phrase I hate, of our “well-rounded” personality and knowledge.

It’s funny. I often wish I were Pre-Med or Pre-Law just because that would give me a concrete goal to
aim everything toward. Like many of you, I really have no idea where I will be. Possibly, you might see
me in the following years raising chickens in Montana or killing wild boar with my teeth in South America. Whatever
it is, I need to decide now, because believe it or not, the world will pass you by. Inheriting daddy’s
business or receiving that long-awaited trust fund is not enough. Find something—whether it's chickens or pigs—and dedicate yourself to it.

I will give you an example: I saw a play at the English National Theatre in London directed by a
guy who has directed three other shows at the National and has produced four works of his own. He is
one year younger than myself. Twenty years old! OK, I guess that makes me left-over pot roast in the grand
scheme of things. Although doubt causes me to be harsh on myself, I know I have the potential to do
what I want and to do it successfully. Everyone receives an amount of absolute potential, and it is our duty
to fulfill what we have been given. Evil arises when we choose to ignore our gifts. This director that impressed
me in London is no more gifted than myself, but what he has done is to sharpen focus and to
accomplish his goals.

Seniors, this year should not be completely coated in Budweiser, but save time to catch up with a world that
turns at a faster speed than the confines of Davidson. I won’t end this with cool slang and a catchy
phrase, but I shall leave you with a simple wish of luck.

ONE MORE THING, CODY... Y’KNOW ALL THOSE TIMES I WAGGED MY TAIL? I FAKED IT...
