THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1994

A talk with Brandon "Ozone" Williams
By Matt Pitzer

Men’s basketball coach Bob McKillop assesses sophomore forward Brandon Williams’ talent with one simple phrase: “He has the potential to
be one of the greatest players in Davidson history.” He says that in all seriousness and with good reason. Williams,
an athletic six-foot-six Collinston, La. native, has already about doubled his points per game average from last year to 13.5
points. An increase in minutes that came with this season’s starting position accounts for part of the added production, but
McKillop feels Williams is beginning to turn his potential into reality.

“One of the greatest things [Williams] had to work on,” McKillop said, “as is the temptation for all great athletes,
is that he doesn’t have to do something spectacular to be successful. ... One of the greatest examples of that
is his getting to the foul line and making his shots, which is about as exciting as vanilla ice cream.”

Williams is at times the most explosive player in the Southern Conference. He possesses the ability to score a great
deal of points in a short time on high-flying dunks or acrobatic lay-ups that usually serve to excite the crowd.
But Williams said that he doesn't always play at that high level.

“I can be very explosive when I want to be on offense and defense,” Williams said. “Coach [McKillop] wants me
to be explosive all the time. Sometimes, I’ll be in a lull and I need to step it up. For
this team to be as good as it can, I have to consistently play at as high a level as
I can.”

Williams has put up some impressive numbers against some of the better teams Davidson has played this season. He has
played a large role in the Wildcats’ success that has sparked the team to a seven-game winning streak, put them
in a virtual tie for first place in the conference, and has instigated talk of post-season play.

Against Clemson last December, Williams could hardly miss, throwing in 28 points. A few weeks ago, it was his stellar
play in the second half that ignited a Davidson comeback win over UTC. Williams said that he loves making some
of his trademark moves during a run to excite the crowd more.

“When you get the momentum, the crowd is cheering and ready to cheer some more,” he said. “You want to
do a little something extra. I know it sounds stupid, but you add a little twist or jump a little
higher to get the crowd going a little more.”

“There’s a certain flair you have to add to make [the crowd] feel good. You’ve got to let the crowd
know they’re still in the game.”

With both Williams and leading scorer Janko Narat on the floor, opposing teams have difficulty guarding the two explosive players.

“It presents problems because Brandon is a perfect complement for Janko,” McKillop said. “If they put their best defender on
Janko, it opens opportunities for Brandon and vice versa. I find it encouraging that they haven’t gotten in each other’s
way.”

Williams expresses certain similarities between the success he and the team are having. With him, every time a play is
called for him, he gets more comfortable in that role. Similarly, as Davidson picks up more and more wins, the
team grows even more confident it can win every night out.

“When you have your number called, it makes you feel better,” Williams said. “Your first time in the spotlight, you’re
nervous and that was last year for me. After that, you can’t help but get comfortable being in the spotlight.”

And if McKillop’s predictions are right, number 40 could be in the spotlight a lot the next years.

150 tickets left for UNCC game this week, available for $5 at Baker

Hoops continued from page 1

office in Baker. Good teams don’t always have to play their best to win games. In fact, they can play
rather ugly, and still win, because good teams play well when they have to. Davidson is a good team, and
they had one of those games last Saturday night at Furman, but poise and a deep bench prevailed as the
Cats knocked off the Paladins 69-56.

Davidson was led by the sharp-shooting Janko Narat last week as he chipped in 21 in Monday’s 76-63 victory over
The Citadel while scoring 19 against Furman on Saturday. These two performances have moved Narat to 9th on the all-time
scoring list, now needing 36 points to move past Hobby Cobb.Though certainly Narat is the team leader, the reason Davidson
is enjoying the success it has this year has to do with the team effort that has been put forth
every day at practice and every time they suit up for a game. When interviewing a player after a game
about a play he made that night, that player complements the pass he got for the shot or the effort
his teammate gave to make the play possible. The second game of the current winning streak at Georgia Southern featured
a last-second shot by Chris Alpert that gave Davidson its first and only lead of the game, capping a 19-point
comeback. When asked about the shot, Alpert pointed out the pass Quinn Harwood made to him to set up the
shot. This example is not isolated. Comments such as that come after every game. Though team leaders in addition to
Narat are considered Alpert for leadership and Williams for his rebounding and explosiveness (16 points, 8 rebounds against Furman), what
is special and different about this squad is its “team first” mentality. Solid play along with tenacious defense has earned
Jeff Anderson a starting position and the steady, sure shooting George Williams has emerged as a consistent source of offense.
Over half of the team’s field goals are assisted and any player on the team would trade a career night
for a win. When most people talk to coach McKillop about his team, they want to discuss the fundamentals. They
want to talk about the good field-goal shooting, the relentless defense, or free-throw shooting (4th in the nation), but he
wants those people to know about what is tough to teach, teamwork. The 1993-94 basketball team is special; they are
first and foremost Davidson students like the rest of us, but they play an unselfish style of basketball that is
not commonly found. Narat is not the only player moving up on the scoring charts. Senior Jason Zimmerman took over
the 18th spot in career points last week and is within only 8 points of the next position. Zimmerman, record
holder for three-pointers made and sixth in assists for Davidson, has surrendered his starting role for the benefit of the
team. To Bob McKillop, he has become even more of a leader for the team in this position. Players like
Quinn Harwood, Mark Donnelly, and Mark McGuire are extremely productive with their minutes, usually producing big baskets, tough rebounds, and
steals. Using a nine-man rotation is a luxury and each player makes the success of the team possible. With multiple
possibilities, Davidson can go big, small, quick or whatever serves best to exploit its competition. Being able to adjust to
almost any style of play has helped Davidson compete with every opponent, enabling them to win 77% of the time.
Most people do not know that when we beat N.C. State, we played without the services of George Spain and
Mark McGuire. This year’s success is a tribute to the hard work by Bob McKillop, his staff, and all of
the players that have made a strong commitment to the success of basketball at Davidson College. This team has matured
fast and doesn’t look or play like a squad that starts three sophomores. Last Monday night’s game against The Citadel,
attendance was 1,610. That is pitiful, and a disservice to a team that does nothing less than leave everything they
have on the floor every time they wear the red and black. Davidson was allotted 500 student tickets to the
game against UNCC because the other 8,500 are already sold. Only 150 are still available, so you should waste little
time if you plan to go and don’t yet have a ticket.

1511 Central Ave
Charlotte, NC 28205

Earn up to $185.00 a month by donating life-saving plasma! Visit our friendly, modern center and make your Valentine’s Day
even sweeter by automatically becoming eligible to win $400.00 in cash & prizes awarded weekly.

Alliance “people helping people”

Up to $30 on Your 1st Donation
State I.D. Required

Next semester, broaden your horizons with Beaver College. You can intern in London, ponder Peace Studies in Austria, cycle to
class in Oxford, or study Spanish in Mexico. You can even stop by a cafe in Vienna or explore a
Greek isle. We also have a wide variety of university programs in the U.K. and Ireland. For over 30 years,
Beaver College has been sending students abroad for the experience of their lives. Now it’s time for yours. Call us
today for more information.

Study Abroad with Beaver College.
1.800.755.5607
