THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1994

Study in China

Dr. Gill Holland will lead the first Davidson study trip in China.

By Mary Laura Moretz

China is the ideal place to study Chinese culture, argues English professor Dr. Gill Holland. Holland urges Davidson students interested
in studying Chinese culture to do so firsthand next fall with Wake Forest’s semester program in China.

Wake Forest offers this fall-semester program annually in cooperation with South Atlantic States Association for Asian and African Studies (SASASAAS)
and China Educational Tours (CET). Because Davidson is a member of SASASAAS, Davidson students are welcome to apply. In fact,
Holland says, “They’re wild to get Davidson students to go.”

Dr. Holland has spent time in Taiwan and Beijing, studied Chinese at Stanford, translated a book of Chinese poems, and
taught courses in Chinese literature. He discovered the Wake Forest program at a promotional presentation at Winthrop last year. He
has since accepted an invitation to lead the trip in the fall of 1995. Dr. Dorothy Borei of Guilford College
will serve as the faculty director of the fall ‘94 trip.

Holland encourages students to apply because he feels the western approach to teaching western students at the Beijing Foreign Languages
Normal College proves most productive. “There are some Chinese programs that aren’t going to be as good. We’ve really checked
into this one — it’s tried and true. You don’t want to waste your time.”

Participants live in college dorms and, unlike students at many larger schools, have the option of requesting a Chinese roommate.
Course load includes work in both Chinese language and culture, but previous experience with either is not necessary. Holland says,
“You can jump into any level of Chinese.” The program offers language classes from beginning to advanced. Next fall’s culture
class with director Borei is Issues in Contemporary China.

The trip, at just over seven thousand dollars, is a great bargain, according to Holland. Costs include airfare, room and
board, weekend cultural excursions, and even tickets to Chinese opera. Other advantages to this trip include the weather and the
group. Holland says, “Fall is the loveliest time in Beijing.” The program offers exposure to an international crowd as the
forty-five Westerners who attend include students from the U.S., France, and Germany.

Holland says students will find their studies useful upon returning to Davidson. Students can continue in self-instructional language studies or
take classes in Chinese history, art, philosophy, politics, or literature. Applicants should be upperclassmen and have at least a 3.0
GPA. Interested students must apply through the study abroad office before the second week of March, when decisions will be
made.

May confident in new Union board

By Jay Jennings

The Union Board officers appointed new committee heads last week after a week of interviewing possible candidates. Union Board President
Nat May is “confident that the new committee heads are going to inject new exciting ideas into the Board.”

The 19 Union committees and their chairs are: Concerts - Katie Schwab; Davidson Outdoors - Rob Clemens; Intimate Performances -
Whit Higgins; 900 Room - Jenny Rose (Spring) and Morgan Perry (Fall); Films - Carrie Blackburn; Publicity - Allison Milligan;
Video - Martin Young; Campus Forum - Stacey Carter; Gallery - Jenn Tracy; Literary Arts - George Weld; Speakers -
Dan Nechemias; Women’s Issues - Sarah Orsbon; Artists Series - Lylen Ferris (Spring) and Brad Best (Fall); Outpost - Sherry
Abdelaaty; Cultural Events - Casey Hawthorne (Spring) and Jenny Everett (Fall); Secretary/Historian - Kristen Richardson; Publicity Artist - Geoff Love;
and Members-at-Large - Eleanor Hatcher, Anne Dunaway, and Katherine Ross.

May and vice-presidents Phoebe Dean and Rosie Molinary conducted the interviews between February 13 and February 20. Applicants noted on
the application which committee they wanted to head. According to May, after all of the interviews, the three officers spent
“longer than they meant to” selecting because all of the applicants were qualified. The officers are pleased with their decisions
even though they were disappointed that they had to turn down some qualified people.

New board members will take control Wednesday at a joint board meeting. The old committee heads have already scheduled the
Unionactivities for March which will provide the new members time to learn how to plan and run events. The new
Union Board has been elected at a very important time because of the discussion about a new Union. Some people
are reluctant to support a new Union until a definite need is shown. The new board hopes to display this
need in the coming year.

CoMA holds talks about diversity
By Wendy Lee

In an attempt to facilitate open dialogue about racial issues at Davidson, members of the Council on Minority Affairs are
meeting with freshman halls for the third consecutive year. The meetings, which began last week and continue this week, stress
the importance of diversity and encourage acceptance, tolerance, and outreach to minorities.

DeVane Tidwell, chairman of the ten-member council, said the visits aim at encouraging students to “branch out and meet people
they may not normally be inclined to meet.” Issues addressed in the meetings include the definition of a minority, racial
and cultural relations at Davidson, and racial problems at Davidson.

First Little hall counselor John Murchison said the meeting provided an opportunity for “open discussion to get the freshmen talking
about race issues... It gets them thinking about things they hadn’t thought about before.” CoMA members Alden Smith, Amia Canada,
and Allison Sabel visited First Little hall last Thursday. First Little resident Matt Rich found the meeting helpful. He noted
the importance of learning by expressing ideas, “Plus,” he said, “it helps you to get to know the guys on
your hall... The four main areas we talked about were minorities, homosexuals, women, and different religions.”

Wendy McHugh, hall counselor on Fourth Cannon, said the women on her hall discussed “trying to incorporate everybody into life
at Davidson.” The meeting “brought a lot of awareness because the students didn’t know about all the opportunities at Davidson.”
She noted that the women acknowledged that it is easy to “get into specific groups and become apathetic.”

The Davidsonian
KATHERINE HASH - News Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY - Assistant News Editor
CARRIE BLACKBURN - Special Assignments

Staff Writers: Kent Jeff Fuller, Court McBryde, Rachel Dunifon, Sally Stone, Brett Marston, Jay Jennings, Krisy Ford, Martha Knight, Wendy
Lee, Mary Clare Jalonick, Christy Block, Lexy Devane, Ross Sloop, Towner Blackstock, Phoebe Dean, Beth Lindsay, Mary Laura Moretz, Jeff
Eskimo

Eating habits
Photo by Amy Laukkanen

Linda Reed, a nutritional anthropologist from Oregon, spoke about her study on the influences of western dietary habits on the
indigenous peoples of Alaska on Thursday afternoon in the 1900 Room of the Union.

DOMINO'S on the Green - Cornelius
Hours: 4pm-12 midnight

NEW ADDITIONS: Twisty Bread, Salad, Cheddar Cheese
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe
driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Cash value 1/20¢. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. ©1993 Domino's
Pizza Inc.

MEAL DEAL
$9.99 LARGE CHEESE
Additional toppings 50¢ each

MEAL DEAL
$10.99 MEDIUM 2 TOPPING PIZZA
ORDER OF TWISTY BREAD
2 QT. PKG. OF KOOL-AID
Expires 3-7-94

MONDAY SPECIAL
2 MEDIUM PIZZAS FOR THE PRICE OF A LARGE
Expires 3-7-94

SOMETHIN' FOR NOTHIN'
FREE TWISTY BREAD WITH PURCHASE OF A MEDIUM DEEP DISH PIZZA WITH 2-TOPPINGS
Expires 3-7-94

THURSDAY ONLY
2 FOR 1
$10.99 LARGE PIZZAS
Additional toppings $1.00 each
Expires 3-7-94

$14.99 2 LARGE PIZZAS PLUS 1 TOPPING
2 LITER COKE
Expires 3-7-94
