MONDAY, APRIL 4, 1994

On Friday afternoon, members of the Medieval Society practiced the techniques of swordfighting employed over seven centuries ago. Photo by
Amy Laukkenan

Red telephones installed on dorms
By Carrie Blackburn

ID-less students frantically looking for someone to let them in dorms is a problem of the past. Red telephones installed
outside the main dorms in the past two weeks enable people without ID/access cards to call a friend inside to
open the door.

Ray Thrower, director of security, envisioned the telephones as a “compliment to the card access system,” which he campaigned for
several years ago. The Student Government was not, however, initially interested in the telephones, according to Thrower.

Thrower saw a need for telephones because visitors, pizza deliverers, and students cannot enter a dorm without a card. He
also praises the phones as an avenue for those seeking the help of campus police during an emergency. With card
access, students could get in the dorms, but visitors could not. Now students and visitors alike can call someone for
admittance. When students are uncomfortable letting a stranger in the dorm, they can ask the person to call someone inside,
instead.

The connections were installed one month ago, and the telephones were added within the last two weeks. The familiar red
phones are the same ones that are in various buildings around campus. Resident Life paid for the lines, and the
telephones were moved from their previous locations.

A new “hands-free system” instantly connects a victim to the police, by only pressing a button on an emergency box.
This system will replace the red phones in the academic and administrative buildings. The boxes immediately inform campus security where
the call was placed, expediting help in an emergency.

Thrower says the red telephones in Chambers were problematic because people used them for ordinary conversations, tying them up in
emergencies. Also, the police did not know where the emergency calls were placed.

The new security measures have been installed in the VAC, DCPC, Dana Science, and Chambers. This summer, the elevators, Martin
Science building, the library (including the 24-hour room), and Cunningham Fine Arts building will be included in the system. Akers,
Irwin, and Knox, which currently have neither card access systems nor telephones, will receive both this summer. To increase safety
“down the hill” in the meantime, an emergency call box has been added to the IMAC fields.

According to Thrower, student response to the phones has been favorable, as he expected based on his experience at Queens
College. As former Director of Public Safety at Queens, Thrower helped Queens become the first school in North Carolina to
“go completely card access.”

Freshmen, we need you to carry on the Davidsonian tradition.

MEMBERS OF THE CHURCH OF CHRIST IN CHARLOTTE, MECKLENBURG, UNITE EFFORTS WITH CHURCH OF CHRIST IN STATESVILLE, IREDELL, TO ESTABLISH
NEW CONGREGATION IN CORNELIUS.

You are invited and encouraged to come worship with us. It is obvious that the very foundations of our society
(the family and the church) are under attack from many sources. The Providence Road congregation in Charlotte and the Northview
congregation in Statesville believe now is an excellent time and Cornelius is an excellent place to begin a new work.
Will you come and join us in this highly necessary and wholesome spiritual endeavor?

Our initial worship service will be at 11:00 a.m. on Sunday, April 10, 1994. We will meet temporarily at the
Holiday Inn in Cornelius, North Carolina (I-77 Exit 28). Please call 873-9779 (a.m. only) for more information.

In an increasing!

Former Davidson professor nominatedFor Furman presidency
By Jeff Oller

Former Davidson history professor David Shi remains one of the final candidates in Furman University’s search for its next president.
At the end of last year, after 17 years of teaching at Davidson, Shi accepted the job of Vice-President of
Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty at his alma mater, Furman, in Greenville, South Carolina. Shi suspects that one of
the trustees at Furman nominated him for the position. Since his nomination, the search committee has narrowed the original pool
of 90 nominees down to about six, including Shi.

According to the Furman University student newspaper, The Paladin, the search committee consists of seven trustees, two faculty members, one
student, one administrator, the chairman of the Advisory Council, and the president-elect of the Alumni Association. Trustee and chair of
the committee Thomas S. Hartness hopes to meet a June 1 deadline but says that the committee will take necessary
time to make the right decision.

Shi explains his interest in being Furman’s tenth president: “Furman is poised in a dramatic new era in its institutional
history. Furman has recently divorced itself from the South Carolina Baptist Convention and is now wrestling with how to assert
itself as an independent liberal arts college. Furman is defining a new era.” Shi says he has “a genuine passion
for the welfare of Furman University as an alma mater.”

As he teaches American Intellectual History and considers his candidacy, Shi fondly remembers his years as a Davidson professor. He
says, “My wife and I very much remain loyal followers of Davidson.”

New registration procedure

Drop continued from page 1

raise ceilings or grant prerequisite waivers during the summer. When students return in the fall, another schedule adjustment process will
occur before the first day of classes. In order to avoid lines, students wishing to make further changes will receive
a randomly-assigned appointment to go through regular drop/add. For freshmen, this process will take place for three hours on August
26 and, for all other students, for four hours on August 28. Students can continue to change their schedules for
two weeks following the first day of classes on August 29.

Griffin says that she and others felt that something had to be done to change the previous system. She says,
“The panic at drop/add was so troublesome. We think people will have more time to focus on their schedules and
to make better decisions during the summer.”

Jennifer Humphrey, a senior member of the Council on Academic Affairs, believes that the decision-making process behind these changes successfully
involved joint representation from faculty, students, and the administration. She adds that there is room for fine-tuning any problems that
arise during the summer or in the fall.

Griffin asks anyone with questions to call the Registrar’s Office or to speak with her in person. She has met
with the faculty and hall counselors about the new system and plans to talk to resident advisors next week. After
fall registration, the administration will reevaluate the process and make changes.

Invest in your future career by working as a community health volunteer in Latin America. Develop leadership, organizational, and cross-cultural
communication skills while focusing on public health and environmental projects. College credit and scholarships are available. Write or call today
for this life-enhancing opportunity.

Mexico • Honduras • Costa Rica • Dominican Republic • Ecuador • Paraguay • Brazil
1-800-231-7796
Amigos de las Americas
5618 Star Lane
Houston, TX 77057

Space still available
