14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Women's soccer wins 5-1
By Shannon Lowrance & William Robert

The women’s soccer team traveled to Georgia Southern to collect their first conference win of the season with a commanding 5-1 victory on Saturday. The Wildcats dominated the game, playing the majority of the game on their opponent’s half of the field. Freshman Amy Kanoff scored the first two goals, both of which were beautifully executed and gave the Eagles’ goalkeeper no chance of stopping them. Junior Claudia Lombard then took over the scoring, putting two balls in the back of the net; both of her goals followed excellent set-ups by senior Ellen Sprinkle. Sophomore Kelly Ammann gave the Wildcats their final goal before the end of the first half. The second half was scoreless, as the Wildcats continued to control the game.

See Soccer continued on page 15

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1994

Photo By Casey Rogers
Ultimate frisbee has become a favorite Friday afternoon activity.

Hoops star joins pro team in Slovenia
By Traci Cliett

Following in the tradition of Davidson’s international basketball players, Janko Narat (‘94) has accepted an offer to play in the Slovenian professional league. Coach Bob McKillop said Litus, a lower-ranked team, signed Narat in early August, making him the highest-paid player in the division. Narat was offered a contract with the top team in the league, but he decided “he would have an immediate advantage to play with Litus,” McKillop said. McKillop added that Narat felt “he had an opportunity with Litus to help improve the program.”

The Slovenian pro league begins their season this week and will continue into April. In his free time, Narat will also play for the Slovenian National team with whom he has been playing all summer. The National team did not qualify for the World Basketball Championship this past summer, but they have their sights set on qualifying next June for the Atlanta Olympics.

Narat becomes the fourth player from Davidson to play internationally. Detlef Musch (Germany), James Marsh (Germany), and Frantisek Babka (Czech Republic) have each found their niche in the European pro leagues. These four alumni will play against each other during international games. Each of them is either back in school or considering it. Marsh is at the University of Trier for chemical engineering, and Babka is studying.

Cross country season opens
Run continued from page 13

conference meet at Furman later this fall.” Men's Coach Andrew feels that it was important for his young squad to get the first meet under their belts. Of special mention was freshman Josh Cookson, who finished thirteenth overall but also finished the ASU 8K course at 26:48, the third fastest time for a Davidson runner on that particular course. It should also be noted that the Davidson runners who recorded faster times were both seniors when their records were established.

Both coaches feel that their teams are close-knit ones with the crucial understanding of team chemistry, and blessed with seniors — in particular Bishop for the women and Erik McMichael for the men — who can provide experienced leadership. In a sport where there is a great deal of emphasis on the individual, the team concept is vital to success. “People don’t recognize the effort cross-country requires; it’s basically year-round training from cross country in the fall on into indoor/outdoor track in the winter and spring,” noted Coach Andrew.

Davidson’s next meet is at Virginia Tech on September 17th, and both teams should continue to improve for the upcoming conference championships at UTC and the NCAA Division I Regionals at Furman.International law. Musch and Narat are expected to return to school next year. McKillop said their Davidson academic background affected their desire for further education. Narat, who led last year’s team with 17.7 points per game, is living 45 minutes from his hometown of Domzale in an apartment which was included in his contract. He may return to the United States next summer to participate in the Charlotte Hornets free-agent camp.

Game of the Week draws smaller crowds than expected
By Randy Hartwell

Fewer fans than expected attended the first game of the much-anticipated “Match of the Week” program, although attendance increased for last week’s South Carolina vs. Rutgers game. Regarding the August 31 Virginia vs. San Francisco contest, Athletic Director Terry Holland says, “We were a little disappointed with the crowd (at the first match), but we hope that we can build on each game, so that it becomes self-supporting.” Davidson established the event to bring nationally-ranked men’s college soccer teams to play at Richardson Field. Men’s soccer Coach Charlie Slagle considered it a “decent first crowd” but cites other circumstances that may have prevented optimum participation. “Virginia’s the furthest away of the ‘home’ teams, and there are not many local alums. It was also the first one, and an exhibition match,” he says. Lack of publicity and high admission prices may have contributed to the relatively low 1,364 person turnout. Sophomore Tiese Manigo says, “I was pretty uninformed—I only knew about it because I saw them setting up. Also, it was five bucks, so that kind of deterred me. If tickets were cheaper, that would boost attendance.” Officials are not relying solely on Davidson student attendance; however, they encourage students to come to the games. Special Projects Manager Lee Sargent sees the game as a springboard for future success. “We’re developing a good group of soccer fans; we’re still neophytes at this,” he says. Of the September 7 South Carolina vs. Rutgers match, freshman Naresh Nagella says “my whole floor was at the game.” Slagle promises that those that do come “will get the chance to see some great soccer and be on TV.”

RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING CORPS
MIL 101 - The U.S. Army Today “Introduction to Leadership”
***Sections Offered***
MIL 101-A, Wednesday 0930 - 1020
MIL 101-B, Wednesday 1300 - 1350
MIL 101-C, Thursday 1300 - 1350
MIL 101-D, Thursday 1430 - 1520

For more information: Call 892-2165 or stop by the Department of Military Studies in Belk Hall

Calendar

SPORTS THIS WEEK
Home Games of the Week
Men’s soccer
Wed. vs. UCLA, 7 p.m.
Fri. vs. Radford, 8 p.m.
Women’s soccer
Sat. vs. UNC Greensboro, 7 p.m.
Field Hockey
Sat. vs. St. Louis, 2 p.m.

Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break Trips!
Sell 8 Trips & Go Free!
Best Trips & Prices!
Bahamas, Cancun, Jamaica, Panama City!
Great Resume Experience!
1-800-678-6386!

REGISTER TO WIN
At All Express Shoppe Locations.
Drawing Sept. 15th at 6 pm
* 4 TICKETS TO SEE VINCE GILL on October 7th, 1994.
PLUS Dinner for 4 Before the Concert AND Limo Ride To and From the Concert.
AND
* 4 TICKETS TO THE MELLO YELLO 500 on October 9, 1994

America's #1 Student Tour Operator needs motivated individuals and groups to promote Winter/Spring Break trips to Cancun, Jamaica, Panama City and Daytona Beach, Florida. Call today for more information!!!
1-800-648-4849
120 N. Aurora St., Ithaca, NY 14850

12 Pk. Cans All Coke Products $5.99 Expires 9-30-94
Bud 6 Pk. 20 oz. $6.49 Expires 9-30-94

Express Shoppe
601 Griffith Street
Davidson, NC
892-9828