14

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1994

Men's and women's

Photo by Mike Wang

Sophomore Corey Bean swims butterfly in the 400-yard individual medley.

Vaughan returns from injury, gets tennis victory

By Will Cobb

Both the men’s and women’s tennis teams had their first taste of competition this past weekend. The men sent three
players to the Virginia Tech Indoor Invitational in Blacksburg, VA, last weekend while the women traveled to the University of
South Carolina for a team match.

Holt Vaughan, Russell Briggs, and Ryan Harper represented Davidson in the 28-person draw. Briggs entered the tournament as the fourth
seed but was upset in the second round by Joe Clemente from the University of Richmond. Harper fell in the
first round to Christian Imensek of the host school 6-4, 6-2, who eventually reached the semifinals. But Harper was not
finished as he captured three straight victories to reach the finals of the backdraw before falling to Cleas Persson of
Lander University.

By far the best performance came from junior Holt Vaughan, who has returned from a wrist injury that sidelined him
last fall to play some of his best tennis.

He won his first match 7-6, 6-4 over Pablo Shuring of Virginia Tech, and then had to face the #1
seeded Alex Lindholm from Lander University. Vaughan stuck it to his opponent from Sweden in straight sets to advance to
the quarterfinals. In that round, Vaughan was outlasted in three sets to Chad Toleafoa of Virginia Tech 3-6, 6-3, 6-4.

“All the hard work has really been worthwhile, especially when you get a big win,” said Vaughan, “It’s a reflection
of how much Davidson has improved, and the win puts our foot in the door for big-time tennis.”

The women traveled to Columbia, SC, to face the #21 ranked Gamecocks. South Carolina was just too strong and Davidson
lost all of their matches. The match was tough competition to begin the season, especially since bad weather has limited
all play to indoors.

The women will return to action this weekend in the 5th Annual Wildcat Doubles Classic that will feature schools such
as Furman, West Virginia, NC State, and Winthrop. The men will have their first team match when they face East
Carolina at home on February 18 and then take on Virginia the next day.

Men's track off & running

By Jeff George

At the Comfort Inn Invitational, January 21-22, track veterans led the team.

Erik McMichael posted two minutes for 800 meters, ranking him among Davidson's top five indoor performers ever. Duncan Spears won
his heat of the 400 meters in just over 52 seconds.

On Saturday the team continued their success against UVA and Virginia Tech. Spears and McMichael topped their performances two weeks
ago. Spears is undefeated in his four years in heat races at Virginia Tech.

Freshmen James Berry and Chris Machon posted very good times, while Eric Collings, Dave Foss, and Clay Lenhart finished three,
four, and five in the 3000-meter race. Joe Beach and Jeff George turned in splendid performances at 800m, 1000m, and
400m.

Discover Austin. Discover ministry. Sign up for PROSPECTUS March 4-6, 1994

Continue the journey...

at Austin Presbyterian Theological Seminary.

Discover the caring community of students, faculty, and staff.

Discover intensive study and intellectual growth in areas of theological and biblical thought.

Discover a deep Christian commitment to ministry.

and discover Austin Seminary.

Call the Rev. Eleanor Cozad Cherryholmes, 1-800-777-6127 or write AUSTIN PRESBYTERIAN THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY 100 East 27th Street, Austin, Texas 78705

Women emerge victorious

Women continued from page 13

on shutting down the threes, then Rushia just goes to town inside.”

On Saturday, three Wildcats scored in double digits: Erin Butcher scored 12 points, Tonya Sharpe and Elizabeth Dubose each had
10. Carolyn Kirsch led the team in rebounds.

The Cats now hit the road to face a non-Southern Conference opponent, Radford, on Thursday. They then continue their road
trip and face Western Carolina on Saturday and Appalachian State on Monday. Coach Filar said that the Cats are hoping
to give their best effort against Western Carolina to make up for the disappointing 8-point loss they suffered on January
26. Their next home game is against Georgia Southern on February 17.

By Neil Marks

The men’s and women’s swim teams dropped their records to 3-12 and 4-11 respectively after losing a dual meet to
a tough Duke team last weekend.

“Even though we lost the meet, it was one of our best efforts as a team. We had lots of
personal best times and some new team records,” said freshman Kary Thompson.

Katharine Welling broke her own school record of 1:02.93 in the 100 backstroke with a time of 1:02.45. Mari Mucha
also set a new team record in the 400 individual medley.

Suzanne Herring was a top performer as well, winning both the 50 and 100 freestyles. Churchill Hooff didn’t lose a
race, winning the 1650 and 500 freestyles and the 400 individual medley.

The men’s 200 freestyle relay of Dave Martin, Ryan Smith, Mike Rogerson, and Corey Bean finished first, avenging their loss
to the Duke team last year. The team is now looking forward to the Southern States Championships, to be held
at Davidson February 18-20.

“We’re just looking to improve our standing in the conference and get some more team records and personal best times.
We have some individuals who are aiming at making finals, and even some who are serious contenders to win events,”
said sophomore Corey Bean.

BRING YOUR DEGREE TO BB&T AND BUILD A CAREER YOU CAN BANK ON

Contact Your Career Planning And Placement Center For Interview Times

BB&T

It's More Than A Bank. It's An Attitude.

Since 1872

Covers,

DAVIDSON

MENTION THIS AD TO RECEIVE YOUR DISCOUNT

A VALENTINE SPECIAL

Books with Red Covers, Red Letters,

126 S. Main St. 892-6841
