THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, APRIL 18, 1994

"Responsibility in the Media" panel Friday included Jack Claiborne, Jennie Buckner, Jack Perry, Lester Strong, and Ervin Duggan.

Photo by Amy Laukkanen

Board of Visitors enjoys media day

By Mary Clare Jalonick

Last weekend, as students enjoyed Spring Frolics, the Davidson College Board of Visitors held its annual meetings. Visitors, community leaders, business leaders, and alumni are invited to campus each year to share their knowledge and observe campus activities.

The board’s long day began with a talk from President Kuykendall about the state of the college. Following that, the visitors attended a panel on “The Media and Children.” Panelists Ervin Duggan, president of PBS; Jack Claiborne, vice president of Park Communications and former editorialist for the Charlotte Observer; and Ann Clark, 1994 National Principal of the Year, debated ideal programming for young children.

The panel, which also included Davidson professors Ed Palmer and Herb Jackson, asked the question: “What kind of program can be created for preschoolers and still be financially profitable?”

Discussion centered on the problem of violence in television and working with society to create solutions.

The visitors moved from “The Media and Children” to workshops held by the fine arts faculty, where they learned about members’ experience in visual arts, music, and creative writing.

The day ended with another panel forum discussing “The Responsibility of the Media.” Speakers included Claiborne, Duggan, Boston News Anchor Lester Strong, and editor of the Charlotte Observer Jennie Buckner.

According to Director of Development Kevin McCarthy, who helped to organize the day, the Board of Visitors is so valuable because it “gets individuals involved in the life of the college who might not normally have contacts with Davidson. We can draw on their support.”

Seniors reflect on classes

By Robert Ramsay

As graduation approaches, seniors reflect on the past four years of their life. Seniors take this time to think of what classes, professors, and academic experiences have enabled them to mature, and which have meant the most to them.

Craig Ross, an anthropology major, has been fascinated by the classes in his department, but says that the most rewarding experience was an archaeological dig in Mexico led by William Ringle. Ross worked on a Mayan dig with people of Mayan descent, and says that it was great to be able to “put the two time periods together.”

English major Ashley Payne says that she benefited most from Randy Nelson’s 20th-Century American Fiction class. She says, “The literature is thought-provoking, and it’s something we took out of the classroom.”

Robin Taylor, also an English major, praises Film as a Narrative Art with Zoran Kuzmonovich. She enjoyed the experience of making a film and was challenged by the way the class made her look at film not just as literature, but as something that can force her to question her own ideology.

For Steve Turner, the most valuable classroom experience was his Intermediate Physics Laboratory with Laurence Cain. In the class, Turner had to produce his own experiments and then present them to the class. He says that the experience gave him valuable practice at problem solving and public speaking.

Reeshemah Harrison, a psychology major, has nothing but praise for John Kello and his Industrial and Organizational Psychology course. Harrison found that she shares many ideas with that aspect of psychology and intends to focus on that field in postgraduate studies.

However, not all Davidson seniors spoke of courses in their major. Lisa Sitek, a Biology major, favors her Music 101 class, and Todd Bowman is a fan of Gill Holland’s Chinese Literature course, despite the fact that he majors in political science.

The common theme of seniors’ favorite academic experiences, though, is the word experience. Hands-on practice in and out of class seems to make the most vital impact on Davidson students.

Anne Wampler’s internships with medical specialists in Charlotte were “wonderful,” and Susan K. Taylor rolls her eyes with delight when she speaks of her work with Wanda Webb at the Transition House.

Although academics is a large and extremely important aspect of the college experience, it is not the only benefit one derives from four years of higher learning. When asked what the greatest achievement of college has been, Susan Taylor spoke for her 393 fellow students when she said, “growing up.”

Speed. Power. And more speed. That’s what the new Power Macintosh is all about. It’s a Macintosh with PowerPC technology. Which makes it an incredibly fast personal computer. And the possibilities are endless. Because now you’ll have the power you need for high-performance applications like statistical analysis, multimedia, 3-D modeling and much more. So, what are you waiting for? Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more information and see for yourself. Now that Power Macintosh is here, college may never be the same.

Introducing the fastest ways to get through college.

Power Macintosh™ 6100/60 8/250, internal AppleCD™ 300i Plus CD-ROM Drive, Macintosh Color Display, Apple Extended Keyboard II and mouse.

The new Power Macintosh from Apple.

For further information visit Computer Services Center

Contact Kim Kenyon at X2432

©1994 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. AppleCD and Power Macintosh are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. PowerPC is a trademark of International Business Machines Corporation, used under license therefrom.

Apple®