THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1994 15

Cat Nips

A brief analysis of Dallas Cowboy football by two biased fans

By Mike Wang & Dave Dwyer

OK, so you’ve had the good sense to return and read the sophomore edition of this column. To begin, we’d like to address the Cowboys’ performance last Sunday against the Oilers. A dismal effort, sure, but this game proves that even when the Cowboys play extremely poorly, they are still capable of beating decent teams. The Oilers, although they’ve lost a number of free agents during the off-season, are still a quality team and finished the ‘93 campaign with a 12-4 record, tops in the AFC Central. The Oilers and Cowboys have played each other during the preseason every year since 1967, and in this year’s preseason bout, Houston defeated Dallas in a Mexico City swamp 6-0.

Because the Cowboys don’t have a game scheduled for Week 4, we’ve decided to analyze the remaining major games for that week. First up: Atlanta vs. Washington. The Falcons, behind Andre Rison’s guarantee of a win, beat up the L.A. Rams 31-13 last week; Washington, led by journeyman John Friesz, silenced a number of critics in defeating a solid Saints team in the Superdome 38-24. Though it goes against our principles, we’re calling Washington to score more points. But hey, Norv, what’s with starting Friesz over $20 million rookie Heath Shuler? If he turns out to be half as good as Troy Aikman, then you’ve got a wild-card playoff spot. But for the sake of a good rivalry, Shuler is the future of the ‘Skins, and he needs to play now.

Switching to the AFC, we think New England will get their second win over Detroit, given Detroit shows up after being embarrassed by Dallas on Monday Night Football in Irving. In the Battle of the Bays, the Green boys will beat the Tampa boys, and in this week’s sleeper game, look for Cleveland’s Dawg Pound to doze by the second quarter against Indianapolis.

This week, to introduce our player profile section, we will cover the ‘94 Dallas rookies. The Cowboys’ first-round pick was Shante Carver, a defensive end out of Arizona State. Carver is adjusting from college linebacker to NFL lineman, and he will back up Charles Haley this season. Chris Boniol is another impact rookie who will make his mark as a kicker. This free agent rookie from Louisiana Tech has yet to miss in his first two games. Other rookies worth noting include Sonoma State (where’s that?) product Larry Allen, former Gator Willie Jackson, and 6’7”, 355 lb George Hegamin from NC State. Hegamin was the largest player selected in the ‘94 draft. These players should continue to carry on the winning tradition of America’s favorite franchise.

Last week’s trivia answer: Albany State. This week’s question: In what year and round did the Cowboys draft track star Carl Lewis?

8301 MAGNOLIA ESTATES • CORNELIUS

I-77, N, EXIT 28; HWY 73 WEST - ACROSS PENINSULA COUNTRY CLUB ENTRANCE

(704) 892-4811

RESERVATIONS RECOMMENDED

Appetizers & Dinner Entrees $6.95 - $17.95

- Jazz Nightly
- Feature Acts on Weekends
- Nightly Dinner Specials
- Wine Specialties
- Great Atmosphere
- Great Music

$5.00 OFF

Any Two Dinner Entrees

With this coupon only • Present before ordering • Not valid w/ any other offers • Expires 9/30/94

$5.00 OFF

Any Two Dinner Entrees

With this coupon only • Present before ordering • Not valid w/ any other offers • Expires 9/30/94

For once, a cut in educational spending that actually helps students.

Macintosh® Performa® 636 8/250 with CD-ROM, Apple® Color Plus 14" Display, AppleDesign Keyboard and mouse, Only $2,083.58.

With Apple’s special low student pricing, you can get a terrific deal on Macintosh, the best-selling personal computer on college campuses today. You can choose the affordable Macintosh Performa, which comes complete with lots of powerful software to help get you through college. You can also choose the portable Apple PowerBook or the Power Macintosh 7100/66 8/250 with CD-ROM, Apple Multiple Scan 15 Display, AppleDesign Keyboard and mouse. Only $2,973.40.

For further information visit Computer Services Center

Contact Lou Duncan at x2432

*Note: Desktop systems include a StyleWriter® II printer, Word Perfect, and a surge suppressor. PowerBook 150 includes 8MB RAM plus Word Perfect.

All prices include shipping and handling. ©1994 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, Macintosh Quadra, Performa, PowerBook and “The power to be your best” are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. AppleDesign, Mac and Power Macintosh are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.