THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1994

11

Photo by Tony Wagner

Alum wins local theater award

Charlotte's Creative Loafing names Brad Griffin '93 "Newcomer of the Year."

By Scott McLean

How many times have you consulted Creative Loafing (that almighty reservoir of what’s hot in local entertainment) after sitting around
for lengthy periods of time with nothing to do? Given the workload here at Davidson, this probably hasn’t happened as
often as you’d like, but if you checked out the “Loaf” in January you had a good chance of seeing
a familiar name smack dab between its pages. This past year Brad Griffin, a 1993 graduate of Davidson, was named
"Best Newcomer of the Year" in Creative Loafing's annual theater awards.

Griffin has always been an avid enthusiast of the stage, long before he got his first break in the tenth
grade, playing Snoopy in his high school production of You’re a Good Man Charlie Brown. However, Griffin is better known
for his work while at Davidson which has included playing the male lead in Kiss Me Kate, portraying Pip in
last year’s production of Great Expectations, and serving as both director and music director of Joseph and the Technicolor Dreamcoat
his senior year. This production received stellar reviews throughout the Davidson community, not to mention all of Mecklenburg county as
well.

After graduating, Griffin took a job in the Development Office where he now handles contributions made to Davidson, but that
doesn’t mean that he’s decided to give up acting.

He is currently working on the upcoming presentation of You’re a Good Man Charlie Brown for the college, but this
time he’ll be directing instead of playing Snoopy.

The play is scheduled to premiere at Davidson on February 18, so be sure to come out and support this
young talent and see exactly what Creative Loafing is raving about.

War continued from page 10

make it personal while simultaneously taking the personal and making it universal as well.”

Kate Collie maintained in her speech that her paintings have helped some veterans cope with their memories. Collie expressed that
one way to rehabilitate veterans is to have them “describe what they did to a higher good—instead many of the
veterans had trash thrown upon them when they returned to New York” and were later ostracized. Furthermore, she explained that
some veterans, such as Steve Piscitelli, used art therapy in order to communicate to the higher good. She pointed out
that Piscitelli makes sculptures “in order to remove events from the self.” In fact, Piscitelli later admitted to Collie that
her paintings have helped erase memories.

The series, through its paintings and texts, enables the viewer to sympathize not only with Steve’s condition but also with
the thousands of Americans who suffer post-traumatic stress syndrome. A member of the audience mentioned that perhaps she should concentrate
on conveying through the medium of the canvas and questioned the necessity of accompanying the paintings with texts. Collie responded
that the paintings “do not require words—they’re not attached by any type of umbilical cord. The text merely sheds light
on the paintings.” Kate Collie emphasized the importance of the paintings over the text. Collie believes that the viewers may
tend to distance themselves from such an emotional subject and feels the text provided a documentary style, making a more
realistic story.

Steve Piscitelli's presence at the talk made for a much more emotional night. Steve appeared as he has for many
of her shows and made himself available to talk with students and staff at the reception. During Collie’s lecture, Piscitelli
rose to answer questions from the audience. Piscitelli described how post-traumatic stress syndrome had induced behavior in his own life.

His fears during Vietnam of rotting weapons and the need to maintain the readiness of a soldier continue to haunt
him. To provide psychological security, Piscitelli must have a working weapon, a loaded pack, and a clean uniform at all
times. His story opened eyes to shocking realities of war.

Don’t Copy That Floppy

Davidson College expressly forbids unauthorized copying of software and has adopted the EDUCOM Code as its policy.

The Computer Services Center (CSC) is sponsoring a Software Honesty Awareness Day on Wednesday, February 9, 1994. The CSC will
be distributing information on the legal use of computer software and a free software program that will create an inventory
of the commercial software programs installed on a computer.

There will be software give-a-ways and other prizes. Don’t miss it!

The Computer Center Staff

KOBE

JAPANESE HOUSE OF STEAKS & SEAFOOD

Sushi Bar Open Tuesday-Sunday Evenings

Happy Valentine's Day Special for Two

Choice of Steak and Chicken or Steak and Shrimp $29.95 per couple

Lunch Wed., Thurs. & Fri 11:30 - 2pm Sun - Thurs. 5 - 10pm Fri - Sat 5 - 11pm
I-77 Ext 23 Next to Movies at the Lake 20165 Chartwell Ctr. Dr. Cornelius, NC 704-896-7778

NOW WITH TICKETMASTER SERVICES

FISHBONE (2/17) VILLAGE PEOPLE (2/19) WIDESPREAD PANIC (2/24) RUSH (2/25) WHITE ZOMBIE (2/15)

2/12/94 GRAND OPENING BASH

Prizes, Freebies, Food, and

WIN 2 EXCELLENT SEATS FOR RUSH Lakeshore Market Place: 896-7882
