Che
SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY
suidsonian

VOLUME LXXXV MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 1994 NUMBER 14

Baker succumbs to student demands to stay open late
By Martha Knight

After pressure from students, Athletic Director Terry Holland agreed to lengthen the hours at Baker Sports Complex this semester. Effective
immediately, the sports complex will be open until midnight Monday through Thursday. In addition to the longer hours, new Nautilus
equipment was installed in the converted racquetball court/weight room.

The new complex hours are Monday through Thursday, 9 a.m.-midnight; Friday, 9 a.m.-7 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday, 1 p.m.-7 p.m.
In past years, the sports complex was open until 11 p.m. on weeknights and 6 p.m. on weekends. Students expressed
concerns that conflicts earlier in the day prevented them from using the regular hours. As a result, current Junior class
President B.J. Rudell and several other SGA senators petitioned Baker administrators to open from 9 a.m. until midnight throughout the
week. However, Baker returned to its original hours at the end of the 1992-1993 school year when it was determined
that students were not using the facilities during these hours. The current schedule is the result of efforts by Rudell
to follow up on a renewed interest in the extended hours.

Other changes include the conversion of one of the racquetball courts at the entrance of Baker into a new weight
room. Assistant Athletic Director Bob Price allocated funds to purchase the state-of-the-art Nautilus equipment. By placing the machines in

See B.J. v Baker on page 3

Staff debates statement of purpose
By Rachel Dunifon

Administrators convened a special staff meeting Monday, January 17 to debate changes in the Statement of Purpose which were proposed
by a committee of faculty and trustees. The committee, comprised of faculty members Ben Klein and Sandy McKelway and trustees
Larry Dagenhart and Bill Wood, have spent the past year working on changing Davidson’s document. Their revisions aimed at making
the revised version more clear, as well as more representative of Davidson as a whole.

A majority of their efforts focused on revising the statement’s religious language—struggling to affirm Davidson’s Christian heritage while not excluding
people with a wide variety of beliefs. Proposed revisions in the statement’s religious language have created a great deal of
debate at meetings of students and faculty. According to Klein, the meeting with the administrators followed a different course. Monday’s
meeting focused on ways that the revised statement could reflect Davidson’s distinctive character rather than its religious language.

Klein cited “a number of insightful comments and suggestions” from administrators who proposed that the statement emphasize Davidson’s commitment to
service and the fact that it is a residential college. According to Klein, Monday’s meeting was “very helpful” to the
four committee members who attended. Klein enjoyed being able to focus on other aspects of the document rather than continuing
to debate the topic of religious commitment.

The committee has found each of its meetings with faculty, students, and administrators very helpful. They now, however, realize that
“it is impossible to satisfy everybody” with our revised Statement of Purpose. The trustees must make the final decision on
whether or not to approve the revised Statement of Purpose. The document will be presented at the Feb. 3-4 Trustee
meeting, and they will vote in April.

Source: Campus Chronicle
Living DavidsonOutdoors

Juniors Susan Fischer and Alex Schermer conquer the Rio Grande. Deliberately, students head back to nature during the holidays. Photo
by Ed Daugherty.

By Mary Clare Jalonick

Over Christmas break, 42 students traveled with Davidson Outdoors to Tampa Bay for sailing, the Florida Everglades for canoeing, and
the Rio Grande for canoeing and hiking. Davidson Outdoors trip leaders Phil Ewing and Rob Clemens led the sailing trip
in Tampa Bay. Split up onto three boats, the group of eighteen learned to sail and relaxed as they traveled
from marina to marina. For the first two days, the group trained with experienced sailors, who then accompanied them on
the trip; however, the students were able to sail the boats themselves after training. At night, they either docked and
slept on the boat or anchored and slept ashore. The group experienced weather varying from high winds to no winds
to thick fogs.

The Florida Everglades trip, offered for the first time during winter rather than spring break, got off to a good
start according to trip leader Jonathan Brooks, who said that the weather was beautiful and the canoeing was perfect. The
group was able to spend one day canoeing and one day hiking with a ranger from the national park service.
The trip took a turn when several people caught a stomach virus. The group decided to turn back and end
their trip early when...

See Nature on page 6.

Watered down texts

Photo by Amy Eastman

After a pipe burst in the Grey College Union, the bookstore flooded and closed on Thursday afternoon. Many students were
unable to buy books for their classes.

Service remembers MLK, Jr.

By Jay Jennings

"Whites killed the dreamer MLK, Jr., but blacks killed the dream,” Reverend LaVert Taylor said about African-Americans in the 1990s.
Taylor spoke to the students, faculty, and community members gathered for a worship service and gospel songfest remembering Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr. in Love Auditorium Thursday evening. Assistant chaplain Brenda Tapia opened the service by announcing the various activities
in connection with Black History Month. Speeches, movies, and a drum exhibition will begin at the end of January. A
brochure listing the activities is in the Dean of Students Office.

Reverend Rob Spach, the college chaplain, introduced the featured speaker, Reverend LaVert Taylor. Taylor is the pastor at Mount Olive
Baptist Church in Arlington, Virginia. A personal friend of King, Taylor has been involved actively with the Civil Rights movement
for over 35 years. Taylor’s most vivid memory of King was his speech on August 28, 1963, during the march
on Washington. Taylor watched the speech from a jail in Louisiana after trying to lead a voter registration drive. King
spoke of his dream of equality for all Americans, hoping that his children would grow up in a better world.
King’s dream has not been realized, according to Taylor. He...

See MLK on page 4.

INSIDE THIS WEEK

NEWS: Icy weather leads to treacherous travel conditions. Page 4.
OPINIONS: Crumbley explores the "Media burlesque." Page 8.
SPORTS: Men's basketball destroys VMI 78-60. Page 11.
ARTS: R.J. Reynolds lecture to be held in Love tomorrow. Page 9. Josh ponders the wonders of vinyl. Page 9.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
