4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS. MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1994

Despite improvement, scheduling problems exist

By Jennifer Kerns

Few expect to need drop/add for the last semester of senior year. However, despite permission or good numbers, some seniors received only one or two classes. Anna Watkins has one class: 19th century Russian literature in translation. “According to the Registrar, this is my only class. I don’t know how I could have gotten this, unless the computer randomly selected something for me. I'm a senior French major, my first number was 5, and I still didn’t get my advanced French poetry class. There were five of us signed up, and only one person got the class. They said that the computer must have misread a prerequisite requirement. Now I will have to go to drop/add to pick up the course, as well as an independent study.”

Sinda Speer, another French major, only has one course. “I signed up for two upper-level French courses and Spanish 102. How could I get my third choice, and not my first and second choices? I know there are spaces left, so I guess there was some mix-up.”

Jim Moss had a similar problem in his major. “I don’t know what is going on. If my number is 17, and I didn’t get my 300-level music class, then there’s something wrong. Maybe there’s a glitch in the computer system.”

Linn Dukes received a 300-level course in anthropology instead of her 300-level history class. “I know that the class is popular, but history is my major, not anthropology. I need to pick up another history course at drop/add. Still, I have gotten more classes this semester than before.”

Since most courses for seniors fulfill major requirements and/or graduation requirements, there must be some schedule adjustment. Seniors have top priority on these major courses, such as seminars and 300-level courses. As one student says, “We must have certain courses to graduate. I don’t have an English seminar, but I’m not worried.”

Registrar Polly Griffin explains that these problems may be attributed to the fact that the office is using a new computer system with new software. However, she says that about 1,400 out of 1,600 students received three or four classes, which is a much greater percentage than in past semesters. “If students have questions, please come by and we’ll look at their forms,” says Griffin.

As fourth-year students, we realize that things will work out eventually. “I usually end up with the classes I wanted,” says Moss.

Religion department chair believes Christian requirement for professors should be dropped

Presby continued from page 1

The resolution passed with 26 yes votes, 2 no votes, and one abstention. The issue has yet to be decided by the Trustees. Davidson graduate Jim Fuller, a former Vice President of the Alumni Association, feels strongly that the policy requiring trustees to be Christian is exclusive and potentially eliminates many dedicated alumni as candidates for the Board of Trustees.

“Anyone who attends Davidson knows that it is a strongly church-related school,” says Fuller. “After maintaining a good tenure as a student and becoming an alumnus, it seems neither fair nor the best reflection of the college that when it comes time to select trustees, Davidson would slam its doors and treat those who were not active members of a Christian church with indifference. Certainly, the goal is not to separate from the church, but once someone joins the Davidson family, they should be able to remain at that table for the rest of their lives.”

Only Christian requirement for Religion Professors?

At the November 1 meeting, SGA President Eric Rosenbach addressed the requirement that religion professors be Christian. Rosenbach feels the requirement limits students’ opportunities to learn from non-Christian professors. The discussion concerning the religion department lasted only three weeks in the SGA. The resolution, authored by Connor senator Jo Burrows, passed with only one opposition noted.

“I saw a real problem with not letting professors of other religions teach here at Davidson, all because of an outdated and ridiculous requirement,” says Burrows.

Rosenbach maintains that the resolution was important because the requirement contradicted a passage in the college’s Statement of Purpose: The loyalty of the college thus extends beyond the Christian community to the whole human community and necessarily includes an openness to and respect for the world’s various religious traditions. Davidson is dedicated to the quest for truth and encourages teachers and students to explore the whole of reality, whether physical or spiritual, with an unlimited employment of their intellectual powers. Faith and reason must work together in mutual respect if Davidson is to realize and maintain its particular vision of academic excellence.

Dr. David Kaylor, Chairman of the Department of Religion, comments that the requirement for religion professors to be Christian has “never come up as an issue in the religion department, so there has not been an occasion to push for a change.” Kaylor notes that three departments were once included in the original bylaw: religion, philosophy, and psychology. According to Kaylor, the psychology department was released...from the bylaw after pointing out that its subject matter was not related to faith. The requirement for the philosophy department was removed when the department wanted to hire someone opposed to this requirement.

By Meg Wolff

Survey tells all about effectiveness of SGA

Sean Carithers, a senior political science major, has written a paper on “The Perceived Effectiveness of the SGA.” To gather necessary information, Carithers designed a survey that was completed by 408 students. Based on the hypothesis that the Davidson student body does not perceive the SGA to be effective at governing and shaping student life, Carithers discovered that while most students perceive the SGA to be effective, the majority of students appeared to be frustrated with communication between the student body and the SGA. Also, there is a pervasive lack of knowledge about the SGA and the issues that it is dealing with. After evaluating the surveys, Carithers determined that 57.1% of the respondents are interested in politics while only 17.9% responded that they were not. Also, 70.6% of respondents vote in SGA elections while only 29.4% do not. Carithers concludes that the means of communication between the students and the SGA must be improved.

Nancy J. Astle, M.D.
Certified by American Board of Dermatology

Craig S. Schauder, M.D.
Certified by American Board of Dermatology and American Board of Cosmetic Surgery

Specializing in Adult and Pediatric Care of the skin, hair, and nails; hair replacement surgery; liposuction; skin cancer removal, including Mohs Technique; chemical peels; spider vein treatment.

19900 Hwy 73 West
Davidson, NC 28036

For an Appointment Call 704-892-4878

COSMETIC SURGERY & DERMATOLOGY CENTER

“In a real sense, this requirement is an expression from an earlier time,” says Kaylor. “In the process of redefinition, sometimes an institution outgrows its documents.” Kaylor comments that he would like to see the requirement removed: “As the religion department has diversified and continues to do so, this requirement could potentially be more of a problem. I would like to see the requirement dropped before it hampers recruitment.” Kaylor also remarks that there seems to be an incorrect assumption that the purpose of the religion department is to propagate faith. “Our purpose is not to propagate the faith, but to teach critically and sympathetically and search for caring and competent professors with character,” says Kaylor. “Religious affiliation is just not a major ingredient.”

Presidential Qualifications

The debate concerning religion department requirements has proven far less controversial than the issue concerning the religious affiliation of the president. At an October 25, 1994 SGA meeting, Rosenbach questioned a section of the college constitution requiring the president of the college be a “loyal and active churchman, giving evidence by his life of the strength of his Christian faith and commitment.” The constitution asserts that the president’s faith would be “appropriately expressed” by an affiliation with the Presbyterian Church and an active participation in the college church. Junior Darrell Smith, a member of the Ecumenical Council says, “The religion department issue is one of academic excellence rather than a matter of religious life.” Sophomore Matt Rich, Co-chair of the Chapel Committee, agrees, “The president’s Presbyterianism is a tangible element in shaping the identity of the college. It is important that the president, as leader, embody the traditions we profess to uphold.” Others disagree. Phi Delt senator Rick Onkey feels the requirement is “inherently discriminatory. Unfortunately, many of Davidson’s traditions are discriminatory. Tradition is fine to an extent, but Davidson would not be where it is today without change.”

See Church continued on page 5

Honor code studied for report

Code continued from page 2

Possibility of a survey, panel discussion and/or speaker, and faculty/student round tables to discuss the issue. Says Buford: “For the future of the committee, I foresee formal interviews conducted with faculty and students to gain a direct view of what is needed. Also, we have even discussed the prospect of having an entire Honor Week at Davidson to really emphasize the importance of the Honor Code.” Honor Council Chairman Arthur Gaston maintains that the problem is that there is just confusion about the entire Honor System. “The common theme is that people are just confused about the system, including the Code of Responsibility and the Honor Code. Freshmen seem to be really scared that they will make a mistake, but what we really want to emphasize is that the Honor Code and the entire system is really amazing.” Buford concurs: “Most students don’t even consider what a privilege it is to know that you are entirely trusted upon your own will.” Honor Council Secretary Anna Gray Anderson stresses that at this point, there are really more “questions and discussions about the Honor Code than problems.” Buford agrees: “If the committee can effectively define the gray areas, our job of coming up with solutions for the future will be much easier.”

Classic Photography, Inc. has immediate openings for PHOTOGRAPHERS
$6 to $9 per hour
Part-time nights and weekends.
Transportation a must.
Underclassmen Preferred.
Call 800-768-3987 for an appointment.