THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS, MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1994

SERCH and COMA merge to face minority issues
By Randy Hartwell

In a move largely initiated by SGA president Eric Rosenbach, Students for the Establishment of Racial and Cultural Harmony and the Council On Minority Affairs will, under an SGA resolution, begin to coordinate activities under a larger umbrella organization with the purpose of establishing racial and cultural harmony.

“They are two very similar organizations with similar goals, and there’s no reason why they shouldn’t work together,” Rosenbach says. Under the new structure, COMA, whose seven voting members are appointed by the SGA, will concern itself with policy making, while SERCH, a student organization open to anyone, will provide student programs to supplement that policy.

SERCH President Jo Burrows thinks the reorganization will be very effective. “The better communication will give it [the new organization] more clout,” Burrows says. COMA members will begin to attend SERCH meetings, and SERCH members can offer input at COMA meetings. But Rosenbach stresses that each will still remain a separate organization. “They’re not losing their namesake or their identity,” he says.

COMA co-chairs Anni Kirkland and Tasha Jenkins are excited about the rejuvenation the new structure will provide. “We want to gather what students feel the issues are—we want to represent as many interests as possible,” Kirkland says. “Anyone can come to COMA meetings, and we encourage that; right now, we’re in the information gathering stage.” To find this information, Kirkland and Jenkins have already met with the Admissions office, RLO, and FLAG and will continue meeting with other organizations soon.

With the reorganization, SERCH and COMA will become stronger-felt presences on campus. “It will make it more real for students,” Jenkins says.

More Movies at the Lake: theater adds four more screens
By Sarah Teachworth

Davidson College students who didn’t believe that Cornelius could possibly become more entertaining are in for a shock. It’s happening. Movies at the Lake is adding four more theaters onto the original complex, making a grand total of 12 screens. Cinema executives believe that they have enough business to sustain the extra theaters because the nearest theater is in Statesville. Construction on the building has already begun and is scheduled to continue until late December or early January. Management does not expect increases in ticket or concession prices to defray the costs of the new facilities. You can still see a current flick for $5.50 (or $3.75 for matinees). And for those in the know, students can purchase movie vouchers for only $4.00 at the Union desk. These vouchers are good for any movie at any Eastern Federal theater. The only difference in the new Movies at the Lake is that in the future, it will be even more difficult to decide which movie to see. Davidson students will soon have an extra four movies from which to select.

Photo by Zek Hendrix

Women’s group supports survivors of sexual assault
By Beth Bacon

Date rape is happening on Davidson’s campus, according to Nance Longworth, who works part-time at the Davidson counseling center. She leads a sexual assault support group that meets every Wednesday night for approximately an hour. Despite small beginnings three years ago, 12 to 15 women attended regularly last year. The group is now in the building process again, as only three women regularly attend meetings. “I encourage women to take advantage of this,”says Longworth. “It’s a non-pressure, low-key situation. You can come and sit and say nothing if you want.” She says that the first step for women interested in attending is to call the counseling center to set up an individual appointment in order to see if the group is “what will work for them, because walking in the door for the first time is the hardest thing,” says Longworth. She suggests bringing a friend to the first meeting. Setioe Satnanthallackeiakys it is natural for victims to think that others won’t understand or think that “you made it up.” The support group provides a “community with a lot of fostering.” There are both talkers and listeners who together “work through problems and make sense of everything.”

Hackett was raped at the age of 14 and didn’t tell anyone about it until just last year. She now says, “Don’t hide if you are a victim because there are other people who can help you. In hiding you do more harm than good,” Hackett says that at the beginning of last year, the group discussed what had happened to them, worked through the event, made sense of it, and realized it was not their fault. By the end of the year, they had moved on to talking about relationships and deciding what a good relationship entailed. “It [the support group] helps us take an awful event in our lives away from the focus.”

Senior Mary Randolph also attends the support group. “It’s been the best thing for me in dealing with it,” she says. “It’s hard to understand unless you’ve been through it, and we want to encourage anyone to come because it’s really supportive.” She says that the healing process is “like a transition from victim to survivor.”

“I think it makes us stronger... just dealing with it. It’s a great release,” Hackett says. The group allows those who attend to “grow and figure out a lot about themselves.” “One of every four women is a survivor,” says Longworth. This includes survivors of sexual assault, abuse, rape, and date rape. According to statistics, freshmen women are at the greatest risk of being sexually assaulted. “I wish people would be more open,” Hackett says. “There are ways to deal with it. You don’t have to hide it.”

DAVINO'S IS THE PERFECT PLACE FOR GROUPS!
Group Specials (10 or more)
- Spaghetti with Marinara Sauce $5.00
- Chicken Parmesan $6.50
- Lasagna $6.50
* All specials include bread, salad, and drinks.
OR
Order 5 or more 16 inch, one topping pizzas for only $6.00 apiece!

Nancy J. Astle, M.D.
Certified by American Board of Dermatology

Craig S. Schauder, M.D.
Certified by American Board of Dermatology and American Board of Cosmetic Surgery

Specializing in Adult and Pediatric Care of the skin, hair, and nails; hair replacement surgery; liposuction; skin cancer removal, including Mohs Technique; chemical peels; spider vein treatment.

19900 Hwy 73 West
Davidson, NC 28036
For an Appointment Call 704-892-4878

STUDENTS DON'T FORGET!
Wednesday night is student night:
- $3.50 pitchers of beer
- $4.75 all you can eat pizza

Call Steve for specials information and reservations: 892-4794

SENIORS: Fill out your Davidsonian surveys and turn them into the boxes in the apartment laundry rooms. Contact Bobby Ramsay with questions.