OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1994

Gull’s Nest: Bill Gullan

How Fall Break renewed my faith in America and in our generation

I can’t honestly say that I had enough time to be genuinely depressed before Fall Break, but the abiding patriotism
that has influenced my opinions on things was beginning to fade as we were in the midst of two foreign
policy operations: one to restore a weak anti-American in Haiti, and the other to boost the popularity of our sagging
President.

Let me quickly share an observation about the Caribbean situation: when people are braving hundreds of miles of dangerous sea
on cardboard rafts, aren’t they the kind of people we want here? I say give them a Coke, a Big
Mac, and the oath of citizenship right there on the beach.

This in mind, I was definitely in a malaise. Fall Break has always been fun. Freshman year had me being
enthusiastically greeted at the airport by an old girlfriend. Last year saw forty ingenious Davidsonians, fraudulently under the auspices of
an FCA chapter, renting a mansion in rural Tennessee and converting it into a big cooler of beer. Fun they
were, but this Fall Break renewed my faith in America, her inhabitants, and our future.

We stocked up at Dover’s and hit the road. Oh how joyful it was knowing that up the road someone
was coming home from a dead-end job, going 67, and nervously looking for cops, not even anticipating that we would
soon speed past in a blur of laughter, cigarette smoke, and Hootie. So off we went, settling into the long
drive like tired cats. Carrie, who preferred not to sit next to me, was beginning to snooze in the back,
as was Matt; but Beth, our driver, and I were determined to prevent boredom: she by passing a lot of
cars, and I by enjoying steady doses of Michelob Light and Marlboro Reds. Regrettably, Beth would eventually lose interest in
passing cars and begin to pass exits, missing ours by a full sixty miles.

Either way, we were having fun driving towards Morehead City to meet the gypsies, tramps, and thieves who comprised the
rest of our group (and who had followed the directions more carefully and were angrily pacing the street outside Carrie’s
beach house upon our tardy arrival). And at about ten that Friday night, 15 college kids, in the prime of
our lives, settled into a spacious beachfront Shangri-la, with nothing to do but drink and do beach stuff. And that’s
essentially what we did. There were epic spades struggles, noisy battles over the next CD, ill-conceived romantic encounters, and heated
games of touch football.

One of the members of our party, whose weekend would certainly fit Art Flagg’s definition of binge drinking, provided constant
amusement for the group with his battles against the stairs to the beach and his struggle with simple spelling and
pronunciation. Another attendee insisted on wearing a pale green girls’ GAP tank top at night; his nocturnal feminization ritual was
both sketchy and hilarious. Another hardy fellow succeeded in mounting a lit candle on his baseball cap, an achievement the
dexterity of which was only matched by my mastery of peel-and-eat shrimp. Anyhow, you get the picture: stupid revelry occurred
and a good time was had by all.

So where does America fit into all this? The answer is simple: the right to be dumb and embarrassing was
exercised constantly by our group. We had not a care in the world. Not only did the group impress me
with its unconscious rejection of being lumped in with the tormented Generation X, but none of us even encountered one
unlikable person of any generation. The evening-news America of gangs, guns, hatred, and squalor seemed to be worlds away. Even
the typical redneck, whom we noisily accosted to take our final beach group picture, smiled his toothless grin and asked
us to say “sex” on the count of three.

So, we, the future leaders of America, had a good time on break. And I, while admiring the glorious sunset
and waiting for the shrimp to boil and the kegs to arrive, had an epiphany. No matter what they say,
America has nothing to worry about from us. Should one of us win the White House, he or she might
not solve all the world’s problems, but we would definitely give our nation one helluva hangover and a model for
the enjoyment of life.

Rosie Molinary

Body image: more than a reflection

She moved to our school in sixth grade. Tall and thin with dark, long curls and bright green eyes, she
immediately mesmerized everyone. We became fast friends; thrilled that she wanted my company, I went out and bought Reebok hightops
so I could be just like her. She excelled in the classroom. She dominated student activities. I would walk proudly
beside her, beaming thatShe was my friend. Everything changed in eighth grade. Slowly, she began to wither away. I’d eat
an extra cheese sandwich at lunch, gulp down a Pepsi while she sipped on water and nibbled at carrots, all
the while complaining about how full she felt. My beautiful best friend was hurting herself, and I had no idea
how to help her. As her cheeks sunk in, her spirit faded, and finally, she was hospitalized. No one told
me what to say or how to handle it. Instead, the parents would whisper and hope we didn’t hear, so
we, too, wouldn’t “get an eating disorder.” I remember thinking back then, in between our awkward hospital visits, that it
wasn’t something she just “got.” The anorexia wasn’t in a drink or bite of food she had eaten after somebody
else. It was something that evolved in her as she heard certain stereotypes and continually received praise for her delicate
frame. She believed that thinness was an integral part of her identity, as important as her intelligence or kindness.

She has been hospitalized many times in the last eight years. Every few months, her health spirals down into some
incredibly dangerous state, and she leaves her prestigious university to receive treatment and counseling. She is no better, unfortunately, but
those of us around her are. I’ve learned you can never begin too early with the discussion of body image.
It is the failure of anyone to speak to her in those key years of development that harmed her the
most—years when who she was exteriorly factored into her identity greatly. If everyone hadn’t tried so desperately to hide the
demon of eating disorders from us so we wouldn’t get any “crazy ideas,” perhaps we would have been better prepared
when we began to evaluate our own bodies. Instead, we saw it as some great evil, and we became too
aware of what we were eating. In the years that followed, almost all of us descended down into dangerous eating
patterns. We couldn’t have just learned with her.

I realized finally what our greatest fault had been with her and each other. We reinforced thinness—not just thinness, but
emaciation. “I wish I was as thin as you,” we would say. Those words went deeper than any “Good job
on that test” we had ever muttered. We rewarded each other for having small appetites, for exercising incessantly. We began
to think that womanhood was reached in numbers, and the smaller your numbers were, the more of a woman you
really were. We augmented the belief that women should be petite and delicate. What could we have done differently? At
that age, when we were all somewhat awkward, per-

See Thin on page 9

---

Amanda Bryan

Don’t waste time complaining. Davidson students have a heavy workload. We all know it. I’ve heard claims that we have
the second hardest workload to Stanford, although I’ve heard similar claims from students at Franklin and Marshall, Trinity, and Colby.
And you know what? No one cares. People may nod sympathetically and say, “That sucks. Good luck.” But inside, they’re
either thinking, “Shut up. Go away,” or they’re preparing to outdo you with their own list of things to do.

If a student stays up until 2:30 a.m., she’ll round it up to 3:00 when she tells everyone how late
she stayed up “studying,” even though she wasted hours on the phone, griping about her workload and taking study breaks.
Since Davidson students have so much work, it seems strange that they waste time that could be used constructively by
rattling off their list of things to do to any available ear.

Sit around the Union and listen. Everyone does it. “I have a midterm, and a 20-page paper, and my thesis
due tomorrow, and I only got one hour of sleep last night.” This person will then whine to ten other
people before studying for the midterm and to ten more while researching in the library.

It also seems odd that people lie about how much work they have. If the syllabus says “8-12 page paper,”
the student translates this into “a 12-page paper” when he runs around telling everyone how much he has to do;
and the paper usually ends up being eight pages double spaced with big Palatino letters.

So, just stop complaining. We all have work. If you keep on top of it, you’ll be fine. The next
time you’re tempted to leave your seat and wander around the library in search of a sympathetic ear, stifle the
desire. Not only will you avoid bothering that disillusioned freshman who wanted quiet in his library, you’ll get a lot
more work done.
