THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING

MONDAY, APRIL 25, 1994

Russian bluegrass plays the grunge

~ By Tom Mew
The Russian bluegrass band Kukuruza will perform in the Chambers Multipurpose Room today.

The band, whose name means “Corn” in Russian, has performed extensively in Eastern Europe, including headlining festivals in Bulgaria, Poland,
and Czechoslovakia. In addition, the band has also performed with American musicians Roy Clark and the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band.

Kukuruza had its start in the mid-seventies, when the members of the group, who were students in Moscow, began to
play more traditional British and American music. As a result of the film Deliverance (which was shown in Russia in
the early 1980s), the members became interested in bluegrass. After teaching themselves bluegrass style from listening to records, the members
took the name Kukuruza and began to play professionally.

In addition to original music, the band also plays a variety of cover tunes, including American country and bluegrass songs.
Although heavily influenced by American bluegrass, Kukuruza also incorporates many of its regional influences. For example, the band utilizes many
melodies from old Slavic folk tunes and does most of its singing in Russian.

Because of domestic censorship in the former Soviet Union, the group was originally forced to sell itself as a novelty
act in order to survive. As a result, they have recorded one album of children’s songs. After a brief tour
of America in the spring of 1993, the band did some recording with Sugar Hill Records, although no album has
been released stateside.

Kukuruza is composed of six members. Andrei Shepelev plays banjo and other stringed instruments and is the group’s chief songwriter.
Georgi Palmov plays mandolin and harmonica. Because of his fluency in English, he also acts as emcee.

Other members of the band include Irina Surina on lead vocals, Sergei Mosolov on fiddle, Alexi Aboltynsh on bass, and
Mikhail Venikov on guitar. Look for Kukuruza to provide an excellent evening of traditional and not-so-traditional bluegrass music.

Geoff whistles and dances into the summer

Shows continued from page 12

“Well-I don’t know, but I’ve been told / If ya keep on dancin’, you'll never grow old / So come
on darlin’, put a purty dress on, we’re gonna go out tonight”—Steve Miller

“Cowboys don’t cry
