2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 14, 1994

Students elected for campus councils
By Katherine Hash

The faces of many campus organizations are changing as new officers and members are elected to fill positions on numerous committees and councils. Elections for positions on the Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL), the Honor Council, Reach Out, the Review Board, and the Student Conduct Council (SCC) were held last week.

Junior Andrew Smitherman and Sophomore Ashley Tabb were elected to serve on the Council on Campus and Religious Life. CCRL is an advisory board which meets at least twice a semester to make decisions on campus life issues—i.e. the alcohol policy, Patterson Court.

Junior Alison Woodward was elected to represent the Junior class on the Honor Council after three run-offs. Reach Out’s newly elected president, junior Elizabeth Fleming, and vice-president, sophomore Smita Donthamsetty, will be heading the efforts of the umbrella organization which coordinates 18 campus and community service programs and provides service information and opportunities for students. Fleming has plans to “create a service network between Reach Out, Patterson Court houses, and other campus groups.”

Senior Scott Newnam and Junior Josh Neubauer were elected to the Student Conduct Council. The SCC is an advisory council to the president which deals with matters related to student conduct and disciplinary actions, including changes in the Code of Responsibility, disciplinary code, and the Honor Code.

Course guide controversy
By Court McBryde

Sophomore Jamie McConnel and junior BJ Rudell are taking the initiative on behalf of the Student Review Board in an effort to publish Davidson’s first course guide. However, their quest has raised controversy and questions among Davidson faculty, administrators, and students.

What is the course guide?
The course guide would be distributed to students at the beginning of the academic year. The incoming freshman class would receive books by mail, before they register for classes. The book would be a compilation of data received from student responses to the course evaluation questionnaires. The course guide would provide information on courses offered for the fall semester and the professors teaching those classes. McConnel and Rudell then hope to continue the publication for the next year.

How much would it cost?
McConnel’s initial estimated publishing fee for this book was $12,000. He went before the Activities Tax Council (ATC), which delegates funds for student organizations. The ATC gave McConnel $200, which was then approved by the SGA, to reimburse him for the multiple copies of questionnaires. However, no other funds were allocated. ATC chair Jason Bertsch says “that although the council did not grant McConnel the money he requested, it seemed like the ATC generally supported the idea.” Bertsch says that McConnel will wait for the number of responses to the questionnaires and, depending upon the feedback he receives, will apply again for the money. In April the ATC will revise the budget for the 1994-1995 school year. Bertsch says the ATC will not be able to completely cover the high price of publication. Funding for the book will have to come from other organizations on campus.

What is McConnel’s position?
McConnel started the quest for the course guide; Rudell joined him after hearing his initial proposal to the Student Government Association. McConnel says that as of last week, 489 responses to the questionnaire had been collected, and by “the end of the weekend we will have over 500.” Rudell says a lot of people see the course guide as “causing a rift between professors and students, but neither Jamie nor I see it that way.” Rudell says there are some courses that may not be as strong as others and incoming freshmen need to know about the difficulty and pace of other classes. McConnel learned from Dean of Faculty Robert Williams that tenure faculty only look at their own course evaluations once every six years. Rudell says, “This book is not for faculty. It is not intended to harm anyone.” One concern McConnel expresses is that “a lot of people have not taken the evaluations seriously. It is important for students to understand if we only get 600 responses, then [the guide] won’t measure what classes are really like. The effort must come from both sides,” McConnel says. “We need more responses to make this work.”

Where do the concerns and controversy lie?
McConnel had to present his proposal to the Media Board. Dean of Students Will Terry is a member of the committee and says the board understands McConnel’s motivations and thinks his aims are good, but the board is concerned with several issues. Dean Terry says the price is extremely high, and “we think their kind of survey is really tricky.”We feel some anxiety about the Media Board’s responsibility.” “We are not in the business of censorship,” Dean Terry says, “but with a mass amount of critical data and heavy weight of negative comments, they didn’t have enough response to give a fair response.” “Personally, this issue concerns me. If it is not done very scientifically and with enormous care, it could undermine the academic integrity of this college,” Dean Terry says. SGA Vice President Allison Sabel says there are several pros and cons to the proposed guide. “It would allow students to learn about courses and professors from other students’ experiences.” However, Sabel worries that if a student receives a bad grade from a professor, his or her response cannot be considered completely valid or objective. SGA President Eric Rosenbach says he commends McConnel for his initiative, but the questionnaires are based on “numbers, not comments,” and the professors’ situations need to be taken into consideration. “It’s a good start for something that could happen in the future,” Rosenbach says.

Kaylor publishes nationwide Bible study guide for Presbyterian women
By Ashlyn Dannelly

This year, more than 200,000 Presbyterians nationwide will read a book written by Davidson religion professor and department chair David Kaylor. Dr. Kaylor wrote the 1994 Horizons Bible Study for Presbyterian Women, entitled Who is the Christ? According to Kaylor, the book includes “passages of scripture, interpretation, and commentary for study in monthly meetings.” Nearly 250,000 copies of the 90-page book have been printed in English, Spanish, Korean, and Braille. Kaylor says the book is aimed at Presbyterian women’s groups, because “historically, the women have had more organizations for worship. The men have been less likely to do so... however, they are encouraging men’s groups to use the material also.” The guide relates the teachings of Christ to modern issues. The book's topics are based on scripture from the epistles. Kaylor was asked by the Presbyterian national organization to write the book. He was chosen because one member of the author selection committee read his book on Paul’s covenant community. He will also appear in a video made by the Presbyterian Church which serves to “introduce groups studying the book to the author.” The ten-minute video includes an interview with Kaylor and shows scenes of the professor discussing religious topics with his Davidson students. The video also details his life as a religion professor at Davidson. The video will be shown at local churches and at conferences where women leading their church groups in studying Kaylor’s book will view it as part of their training.

Take Back the Night marches March 29
By Kristin Garris

The fourth annual Take Back the Night program and march will take place Tuesday, March 29, at 7 p.m. in the 900 Room. In April 1991, the first annual Take Back the Night at Davidson was scheduled as part of the Union’s Solidarity Week. Now it is organized and sponsored by the Committee for Women’s Issues and is held during March — National Women’s History Month. Speakers during the event relate how their experiences of sexual assault have affected their lives, including relationships with others and their own self-perception. After the program, a procession will weave its way through the darkest parts of the Davidson campus. The event is designed not only to promote awareness of sexual assault and to educate the Davidson community, but also to empower the speakers and other survivors of sexual assault. In sharing their experiences, survivors help others realize they are not alone in their pain. Statistics show that one in every four college women are victims of rape or attempted rape.

Camp Challenge Preview
Learn about this Army-sponsored adventure camp and find out how you can receive a college scholarship valued at $28,000. March 17, 7:30 p.m., Morrison Room of the College Union.

The Davidsonian
KATHERINE HASH - News Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY - Assistant News Editor
CARRIE BLACKBURN - Special Assignments
Kent, Jeff Fuller - Staff Writers
Court McBryde, Rachel Dunifon, Sally Stone, Brett Marston, Jay Jennings, Krisy Ford, Martha Knight, Wendy Lee, Mary Clare Jalonick, Christy Block, Lexy Devane, Ross Sloop, Towner Blackstock, Phoebe Dean, Beth Lindsay, Mary Laura Moretz, Jeff

EVERY NIGHT IS COLLEGE NIGHT AT FORD'S SEAFOOD, BBQ, AND CATERING
Bring in your student I.D. & get $1.50 off any entree
Enjoy a really delicious meal at a really great price. Our fast, friendly service & atmosphere make dinner an enjoyable break! Don't forget to save room for our homemade banana pudding, voted "Best Dessert" by Lake Norman Magazine.
Conveniently located just minutes away from Davidson College
Must present I.D. to validate offer
Hours: Tues-Sat 5:00-9:00pm
Lunch: Fri 11:30-12:00pm
Highway 21 South
Cornelius, NC
892-3362