OPINIONS MONDAY, APRIL 18, 1994

Nathan Ma Seay

Local hero

A few weeks ago, Ken May accused me of being affectionately touched by a girl in Vail Commons. This is,
of course, ridiculous. I’m sure that Ken is a great guy and all, but this yellow journalism of his has
got to stop. I’m sure that he meant no real harm by it; he just wanted to show the world
that I’m not that much of a loser. I appreciate that, I guess. (Notice, however, how he didn’t mention anything
about my future employment. I guess that’s one facet of my loserness that is irrefutable.)

I never knew that anyone could be regarded as a hero for being shunned by the opposite sex. My heroes
are people like Howard Stern, Sting, Lord Byron, and Captain Kirk. You know, chick magnets. I never considered Ernest Borgnine
or Pee Wee Herman my heroes. They had nothing going for them that I wanted in my life. Wait a
minute. I take that back. Pee Wee is a hero of mine. He became one after that little run-in with
the police. He certainly wasn’t surrounded by women then (real ones, anyway). I only came to revere Pee Wee after
he was publicly humiliated. Maybe I see Ken’s point.

Ken isn’t alone in hurling unsubstantiated compliments at me. I have been told by a few people that girls don’t
hate me as much as I think they do. This manic impulse to bolster my ego has extended all the
way to the faculty. Dr. Shireen Carroll has told me my column is “the biggest scam since Velveeta called itself
cheese.” Well, that might not be verbatim, but I’m sure that’s what she meant.

All of these compliments started giving me delusions of grandeur. I started thinking that I was desirable, smooth, debonair. I
went out with the intention of proving my newfound studliness. At a party, I spotted the girl who was going
to be the next patient of Dr. Love. Confidently striding across the room with my head thrown back and my
pectoralis muscles flexed, I closed the gap between her and ecstasy.

“Hello,” I said. “You’re in one of my classes, but I don’t know your name. I’d really like to get
to know you better. Your comments in class are quite insightful, and you always smell so nice.”

My approach was met with a blank stare. I thought perhaps this girl, as improbable as it may be, had
absolutely no idea who I was. I decided to introduce myself and then prepared to catch her in case she
swooned.

“I’m Nathan Seay,” I said. When I got no further reaction I decided to go on: “Perhaps you’ve read my
column in The Davidsonian. I’m the incredibly witty jour-”

See Love Me on page 9

Ike Bailey

Fear and fatigue: sources of discrimination

I hear a lot of people, black and white, say, “I’m tired of hearing about all of this racism 'stuff.'
I’m tired of Nolan Richardson saying that he doesn’t get his due respect because he is black. I’m tired of
hearing that there is a ‘conspiracy’ to commit genocide against the black race, because I just don’t see it. I’m
tired, I’m tired, I’m tired.”

I, too, am tired. As a black male in this society, I probably have more reasons than any other group
to be tired, and to give up. All I am supposed to be concerned with are sex, violence, sports, and
an occasional pork chop. I don’t have that many role models to look up to because all of the ones
who really make strong, positive statements are either killed or imprisoned. I don’t think I’m all that special because I
believe that all of my ancestors were only slaves. I am growing up in an educational system which says I’m
only succeeding if I act “white,” while I am being called a “sell-out” at home for this very behavior. And
if, by chance, I am strong enough to get a college degree, I am still less likely to get a
job than a white, male, high-school dropout.

As a white, non-racist individual, you are probably questioning all of the publicity of discrimination, especially by the blacks who
have “made it.” You probably wonder why we just can’t see each other as a “people” and not a “color.”
You probably wonder why we just can’t leave the past in the past, because after all, you were not a
part of this. But, you are indirectly benefiting from what happened in the past, and blacks are directly suffering from
it.

You know when I think we should stop thinking about discrimination? We should stop thinking about it when the playing
field is evened out. We should stop thinking about it when blacks earn 100% of what white America makes, not
just 61%. We should stop thinking about it when envisioning a black President in office is not an impossibility. We
should stop thinking about it when African-Americans don’t make up only 12% of the entire U.S. population and 50% of
its prisoners. We should stop thinking about it when I am allowed to maximize my full worth with the same
amount of struggle as anyone else. We should stop thinking about it when I am truly free.

Those of you who are standing by and letting this go on are the ones who are perpetuating discrimination. You
are the ones who are truly afraid of me.on by saying that this is not your problem are the ones
who are truly afraid of me. You see that blacks have survived slavery, lynching, segregation, and discrimination, and you’re wondering,
if the playing field had been even from the beginning, where would blacks be today? You know why some men
in this country are sexist? It’s because they are afraid of women. They see that these women have been beaten,
raped, and made to think with their emotions and not their minds. They are even strong enough to have babies;
we all know that if men were made to endure childbirth, the human race would have become extinct long ago.
Yet, with all of these strikes, women and the black race are still here, and moving up. Fear, not inferiority,
is the underlying cause of discrimination. We are afraid of change. We are afraid of letting someone else get their
due power because it might take away from our own. If you are not truly afraid of me, then help
me to even the playing field out a bit. Instead of telling me to shut up about discrimination, help me
beat it. Instead of closing your ears to my views, open your mouths so we can listen to each other’s
views. I know we are tired, but let’s fight anyway. And let’s not stop until things like sexism, racism, and
homophobia are beaten. Or are you too afraid?

Carter

MEAN ONE THING PERV IS -- THE MOUSER IS AT LARGE

Christopher Edgar Frampton

Being a senior

Senioritis — It is a topic discussed every year in the Opinions section of “The South’s Foremost College Weekly” (I
emphasize the quotes). Throughout my years of embellishing my life’s tales in an essentially feeble attempt to make you laugh,
I promised that I wouldn’t write about senioritis. Oh, well, I’ve broken promises before.

The symptoms are easy to recognize. A few extra classes missed. Friends circling together like a wagon train. Women crying
on each other’s shoulders: “I’m just going to miss you so much.” Thousands of resumes passing through the post office.
One or two job opportunities coming back. Seniors walking around in a daze, mummified-like, at three in the morning. None
of these lost souls are -

See Bus boy on page 9

Ken May

Just do it

What the heck am I doing here? What the heck are we all doing here at Davidson College? Sure, everybody
can give the typical no-brainer response. “I’m here to learn and get my degree.” And this is all very important
but definitely not the whole scoop, as they say at Ben and Jerry’s. So, what is this revelation I’ve gained
concerning the very nature of our college education? Well, strangely enough, it took a Davidson Outdoors white-water rafting trip to
get it out of me. Luckily, Mr. Death didn’t rear his ugly head this time. But it was another close
one.

The trip began with us braving the harsh elements of nature, manning the front seat of the raft, the only
person with no paddling experience, holding on only with the strength of my two buttcheeks, ready to attack the hellish
waters of the New River. Ay, caramba! What is the point of all this? Oh yeah, my revelation. This trip
gave me the realization that college is all about experience. That’s a pretty broad statement, but I think it’s true.
Maybe more important than all the homework and tests are the new experiences we get the opportunity to try out.
It’s all about expanding horizons and exploring frontiers. Okay, so maybe I’ll never go cave crawling or body surfing in
white water rapids again, but I’ll be darned if I didn’t do it once. College is all about experience.

Not only were we forced to camp out on the hard ground, but we were also subjected to such seemingly
insurmountable obstacles as public toilets and showers. It was a rough night, but we overcame. I began the rafting expedition
rather warily the next day. All morning, the guides were building my confidence with choice phrases like, “If you fall
in, swim feet first so you don’t dash your brains out on any boulders in the river,” and, “Don’t hold
onto the raft rope when the boat flips if you want to keep your arm attached to your body.” How
encouraging!

The biggest surprise came when we were finally on the river, and I was looking for a place to hold
on. No, the guide tells me, you need both hands to paddle. What, no hands? Are you crazy? He was
crazy, but I still couldn’t use my hands to hold on. So, there I found myself, back stiff from last
night’s hard ground.

Here at Davidson, we have an especially rich wealth of opportunities to experience new challenges outside the classroom and library.
Davidson Outdoors is just one example of an excellent resource for experiential fun. Athletics is another opportunity. Two of my
friends joined varsity sports teams with no previous experience and had a wonderful time. Two other friends taught themselves to
play guitar (Guns N’ Roses style). Or maybe you can experience the joy of helping others through the Reach Out
program. Or experience other cultures by studying abroad. You can even try braving the many culinary establishments of Mooresville (now,
that’s an adventure!). It’s all ours for the taking. It’s just a matter of seeing what’s offered and trying it.
There’s a world of experience out there waiting for us. Now’s the time to try something new. Go for it.
Just do it.
