THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1994

Ken May

The return home

Let me tell you, no one on campus was more ready to get out of here last weekend than I. After a grueling week of studying, my plans to visit a friend at another school were looking pretty sweet. My destination was Ohio University in Athens, Ohio. For those of you who know nothing about O.U., it’s a state school of 15-20,000 that just happens to have the biggest Halloween party this side of the Milky Way. And let me tell you, it seemed like most of this galaxy’s inhabitants were there.

Basically, the scene was something like this: 40,000 people, including O.U. students, visiting students, locals, and various other freaks of the industry dressed up in the most outrageous costumes they could find and congregated in three blocks of Main Street Athens. Well, to say the least, I didn’t need a fish costume to feel like a sardine. To say the most, I have never seen a bigger, badder, crazier party in my waking existence. It was awesome!

The rest of the trip was wonderful and very relaxing. However, the more of the school I saw, the more I appreciated why I came to Davidson in the first place. Sure, everybody knows that Davidson takes some getting used to. It’s not always the most fun or exciting place to be. Nor would anyone accuse this school of being stress-free or easy. Often times it can be very trying on a student’s willpower and sense of dedication. At least in my case, wondering if this was the right school for me.

But after seeing a bigger state university, I was thoroughly convinced I had made the right decision. Never ever would I trade the social life, diversity, and size for the many things that make Davidson so special. Things like the short walk to class (yes, even if you are down the hill). Or seeing the friendly smile of someone you know around every corner. Or teachers who I can have a meaningful chat with and classrooms where I can see the chalkboard without a telescope. Or even the “homey” feeling of knowing that you’re part of a community and not just a social security number. You know what I mean. It’s all those little things we take for granted while not realizing how vital they are to what we call the “Davidson Experience.”

No one would deny that it’s a wise move to get out and see what other people and places have to offer. Getting another perspective on life is always a step in the right direction towards broadening your horizons. You may even gain a stronger appreciation and enthusiasm for the current perspective you’re living in. As in my case, not having something may be the best way to realize what you actually do have. It so often seems like our greatest blessings are those we don’t even recognize being blessed with. So, I guess what I’m trying to say is, for me, the return home is always the best part of going away.

Eric Sapp

Mission accomplished: The Commons cares

Wow, I never would have believed it, but look forward to a revised and improved menu over the next few weeks. There was a very good response to my last article both from students and the directors of the Commons. I had a meeting with Carl Pritchard, Dee Phillips, and Barbara Metzler (the people who run the Commons) the Wednesday before last. I obviously had the wrong impression of how willing they were to listen to students. Not only did they listen to everything I had to say, but they also said they would implement almost every one of the suggestions in my article.

Things to look forward to in the Commons:
1. Fresh fruit (not only apples) at every meal.
2. Reduced fat content and grease in most of the dishes (especially a reduction in butter in the vegetables).
3. A wider variety of vegetables that are fresher and not overcooked.
4. An attempt to make sure that at every meal there is one entrée that is a lower fat, generally healthier entrée (e.g., if you just don’t feel like meatloaf and gravy for lunch you can get the grilled chicken).
5. Increased presentability of the dishes (if it doesn’t look like it was cooked right, you won’t see it).
6. A suggestion box.
7. Different fruit juices at the meals.
8. Special Freshmen hall dinners with the nutritionist to acquaint Freshmen to nutrition and help them make the right decision when they get their food.
9. More variety in the Alternative Bar.

I hope there aren’t people out there getting scared that they will lose their fried chicken, Salisbury steak, or french fries. They will still be there. Except now you will have a choice. You’ve probably seen most of these changes already and you should see the rest of them in the next few weeks. Also make sure that you keep checking the salad bar. That is going to be one of the places where some of this new stuff will go.

All this proved to me that the people in the Commons do really care what the students think, and they encourage input from the students. So, if you have a concern, they would love for you to voice it. Thanks to everyone who called me or voiced their concerns themselves. And thanks to the Commons for being so receptive to student input and really caring about the students. I guess it proves the saying, “If you want something, it never hurts to ask.”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Vote for SNGeD - We TAKE PAC MONEY? And THEY WONDER WHY We DON'T VOTE...

Robert Ramsay

Control and immortality

In the film Interview with the Vampire, the undead Louis attempts to convey the void in his life to the interviewer in all its tragic bloodlessness, and he fails. All the interviewer can see are the fantastic aspects—the enhanced senses, the pallid beauty, and most importantly, the immortality.

What would it be like to live forever? Man has always been fascinated by the mystery of life, and as with most mysteries, has tried to solve it. From the mythical Prometheus to Mary Shelley’s modern Prometheus to the genetic engineering of today, the scientific world has aspired to create and control life, with little success. Sure, test tube babies show that life can develop outside of the womb, but the basic ingredients are still necessary. Sure, intravenous drips and electric breathing machines can prolong the life of a comatose patient, but if the elemental spark of life exits, there is no machine that can put it back.

Yet, man desires control. Point a gun at another human being and you control his future. Have an abortion and you exercise control over the being inside you. Live as a vampire and feel the power that it gives you over mortals.

This longing for control is what allures the interviewer; it is what motivates scientists to continue their research; it is what incites one man to point a gun at a deer, or at another man. Will this control ever be attained? Will the elemental spark of life ever shine for us to see and analyze? I do not have the answer to that question—but I wonder, if it is discovered, will we wish it had remained a mystery?

We must support the commitment to academic excellence.

Econ from page 8

Success on standardized tests, from the LSATs to the MCATs. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, a challenging educational experience instills confidence and reinforces a sound work ethic. Singularly, the most heard compliment from returning Davidson alumni is their appreciation for the demanding Davidson undergraduate experience.

Second, students and faculty must realize that the “free-riding” issue can erode, over time, the rigor of the Davidson experience. For this reason, we need to support, institutionally, the commitment to academic excellence. A proposal to place the mean letter grade of a course next to the student’s grade on a transcript (similar to the Dartmouth approach) will reduce the incentive to seek courses based on an expected grade. Moreover, the relative performance of a student within a course will provide much more information to students themselves, employers, and graduate schools than does our current transcript. Medical school grade reports almost always show a student’s relative performance in the class, providing a clearer appraisal of the student’s performance.

Finally, the faculty and the administration need to continue to support younger faculty in their effort to offer challenging courses. Younger faculty need to know that their rigor is both expected and applauded. Parents appropriately ask what their Davidson tuition buys. We need to respond in a clear voice that it buys the opportunity to learn and to earn the credibility of a Davidson degree. The public good case shows the need for continued vigilance to protect the college’s standards. If we compromise the credibility of the graduate diploma, Davidson may no longer be an experience that justifies the cost.

Holt Vaughan

Anybody can be famous

Anybody can get famous these days. It’s gotten so easy. All you have to do is try to kill someone—you don’t even have to go through with it, as long as you act crazy enough. How about that one guy who shot inside the White House a few weeks ago. I forgot his name, but he’s totally famous now just because he shot a few bullets. Big deal.

Then you have that mother who killed her two children. Yawn. Anybody can kill her own kids—no challenge there. I mean, all of a sudden she’s so famous that the whole world knows about her. She’s been on the news every day, the front page of USA Today, the topic of talk shows—you name it. She went from your average mom to celebrity status in just two weeks for barely doing anything.

Remember the good old days when you had to actually earn your celebrity status? Like that guy who shot John Lennon—oh, what’s his name—anyway, he deserves to be as famous as he is. What he did took courage and guts. I mean, that’s what being famous is all about, isn’t it—having more guts than normal people? After all, the guy who shot Lennon didn’t just kill anybody. This guy shot one of the greatest musicians of all time. And it wasn’t one of these phony jobs where you just shoot a gun at an empty White House when the President was nowhere near—that’s wussy stuff. The guy who killed Lennon set his goal from the beginning, and he carried out his plan like a genius.

Now, he worked hard. I mean, this guy had a work ethic that I would want my kids to know about. He’s the type who deserves to be on Oprah. He’s the guy who deserves to be on the cover of USA Today with all of the important famous people—not these damn phonies that don’t do anything. Because that’s all that psycho mother who killed her kids is—she’s just a big phony. And USA Today and Oprah—they’re phonies, too, for making people like her become so famous. Will somebody please tell me what in the hell this world is coming to?