Che B "THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY" avidsonian

VOLUME LXXXVI MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1994 NUMBER 13

Bible school Photo sary of Quips and Cranks

By Meg Wolff

Recent controversy has left students, faculty, staff, and alumni questioning the exact role of religion in our institution. Discussions have
led to no precise answers. In publishing this piece, The Davidsonian is attempting to present a clear view of the
debates coupled with the candid views of those associated with the college who have strong feelings on the issue. As
Davidson receives more and more national recognition, we are approaching a crucial point in its development as one of the
few liberal arts colleges with Presbyterian affiliation.

Origins of the Debate: Should Trustees be Christian?

At the October 12, 1993 SGA meeting, former SGA President Alden Smith expressed concern over a college bylaw requiring trustees
to be active members of a Christian church. Since that meeting, current students, faculty, staff, and trustees have debated about
the role of religion at Davidson — a debate that has never been resolved. Discussion centered around recent SGA debate
about the requirement that the president be Presbyterian. Some argued that the policy fostered exclusivity; others argued that the proposed
change would erode a valuable tradition.

Many were concerned about diversity. They felt that the trustees should represent that diversity already present in the student body.
Smith emphasized to critics that elimination of an exclusive policy would affirm the college’s Christian heritage. The trustee debate concluded
at an October 26, 1993 SGA meeting when Smith motioned for the Senate to approve his resolution, recommending that the
trustee bylaw be changed.

See Presby continued on page 4

Two students save lives

Richards, Woodward use Heimlich maneuver

By Russ Tarver

Freshman Emily Richards was studying on the top floor of the library with a friend when the unthinkable happened. Her
friend began to choke. “It’s kind of my fault because I gave him a box of Junior Mints,” explains Richards.
“He suddenly pushed himself away from the table and began stumbling around the library.” Initially Richards thought her friend was
joking. “I asked him if he was serious, and then I thought, ‘The Heimlich ... You need the Heimlich!’” Acting
on instinct, Richards jumped up and began to perform the maneuver. “I did it four or five times, and it
was dislodged. I really didn’t have enough time to think. I just did it.”

Shaken and bewildered after the incident, both students quietly sat down and continued working while 10 or 15 onlookers stood
with mouths gaped in shock. “Only one person stopped to ask if he was OK,” says Richards. “They taught us
in PE 101 that if there are a lot of people around, one is less likely to act.” According to
Richards, the Heimlich maneuver is “the most important thing they teach us in PE. It’s not something you think you'll
ever need but is really good to know.”

Sophomore Brian Woodward agrees. Two weeks ago Woodward was eating lunch at a local restaurant when a woman...Here is the
cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Nearby began to cough. “She was coughing quite a bit and did the universal sign for choking,” says Woodward. “I
asked her if she was all right, and she shook her head.” After noticing her distress, Woodward got out of
his seat and began using the Heimlich. “She coughed it right up.” Woodward says that others facing a similar situation
should not hesitate. “You don’t have to do it exactly right. Just do something.” Both Woodward and Richards are trained
lifeguards and already knew the procedure before coming to Davidson; however, they felt the PE 101 refresher course was beneficial.
“I know a lot of people

See PE 101 continued on page 6

TIP OFF NCAA soccer Final Four makes oe this weekend

By Mary Clare Jalonick

It’s that time of year again. The empty stands, bigger than ever, are waiting quietly. This weekend, those bleachers will
collectively seat more people than Davidson has ever seen. UCLA, Rutgers, Indiana, and Virginia will all compete for the NCAA
College Soccer Championship at Richardson Field this weekend.

Ho, ho, ho. The Christmas season on aie for this year’s Christmas festivities are in full gear and underway. The
season with their annual Christmas parade highlighting many of the various organizations and groups in the Davidson area. All four
teams will participate in the semifinals on Friday, and the two victors will face off on Sunday. The ticket office
estimates that over 12,000 tickets have been sold, and they expect around 15,000 people to be on campus. Lee Sargent,
Director of Ticket Sales and this year’s NCAA championship director, has been working long and hard to organize the tournament.
He wrote a letter to Davidson students which was posted in residence halls around campus. In the letter, he emphasized
the excitement that the games have brought to the town. “What people remember is that inside

THIS WEEK | First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1

holiday spirit What does Davidson do to celebrate Christmas? Find out. NEWS 3

Should hatred be preached on the Davidson campus? Is that what the Nation of Islam is all about? 8 OPINIONS.

Dog or Selwyn? ARTS & LIVING 10

Richardson Field is being for the

By Beth Lindsey

Although the workload swells with the close of the term, the plans for the peer

On Saturday, the town of Davidson kicked off the Christmas

Sunday brought the Community Christmas Party sponsored by

weekend. Community will help out with the

Photo by Rob Kosick

See Ho, ho continued on page 3

See NCAA continued on page 14

A page of Nation of Islam

The Bowl Picks Sports editor Will Cobb makes predictions about the holiday college bowls. Check it out. SPORTS 15

Davidson, NC 28036

---
