THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS | MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1994

Resolution for students on trustee committees in trustees' hands

By Beth Bacon

Should students be allowed to serve on trustee committees? On September 27, the SGA passed a resolution that says they should. Letters were then sent to the trustees, and Eric Rosenbach, SGA President, gave a “speech to persuade” the trustees at their plenary session on October 7.

The resolution is now in the hands of the trustee executive council. This council consists of Craig Wall (chairman), Larry Daggenhart (secretary), and the heads of the seven trustee committees.

Spades for AIDS benefits Names Quilt

By Dax Cross

Large numbers of students sat tensely at tables, trying to figure out strategies for success. These people were not studying for mid-term exams but participating in a fun benefit for the NAMES Project AIDS Memorial Quilt. The Spades for AIDS tournament took place Monday night and Tuesday afternoon in the 900 room of the Union.

Forty-two teams participated in the competition, which was won by seniors Steve Krause and Kamil Shah, who received NAMES Project t-shirts. The losers of first-round matches competed in a consolation tournament, won by juniors Jessica Kahn and Collie Bryan. Organizers said that the matches went smoothly and everyone had fun.

Each participant paid an entry fee of five dollars in order to compete. Proceeds from the tournament went to four local AIDS support organizations. The 900 Room also donated profits from bar sales to the fund. The $500 donated to AIDS charities was a part of a larger effort to raise enough money to bring the NAMES Project AIDS Memorial Quilt to Davidson November 10 through 13. The tournament was organized by Reach Out and headed up by Elizabeth Fleming and Mark Riley.

If you are interested in becoming involved with the NAMES Project, either fill out the form which all students received in the mail or call -2176. Many volunteers are still needed.

Yearbook photos to be taken Wednesday and Thursday in the Big Screen Room. Upperclassmen can pick up their 1993-94 yearbooks then.

The Confederate Flag is not the only flag with a controversy

SWARTHMORE, PA—The U.S. flag is once again flying over Swarthmore College, and like the original saga of the Stars and Stripes, this unfurling didn’t take place without a fight.

Last April, members of the Conservative Union, a new Republican student organization on campus, donated a flag to fly above the Swarthmore administration building. Although the school had an American flag flying atop the athletic fieldhouse, Old Glory had been missing from the center of campus since the 1960s.

Then the protests poured in. The College Democrats objected to the move, saying that the action seemed to imply that the Republicans had a lock on patriotism. The Socialist Political Action Collective said the decision to raise the flag was another example of American imperialism. Some international and minority students objected to the flag itself, saying it symbolized oppression in foreign lands and at home. Finally, some students objected to the flag-raising decision, saying it was not decided on democratically by the student body.

Still, last spring, the flag went up. But during the summer, someone snagged the flag. Finally, after a poll indicating that students wanted the flag over campus, the flag was put up.

Chocolate Overdose? Beware of the red light...

WASHINGTON, D.C.—It was oneof those days. You had a Pop-Tart and Pepsi for breakfast, a Big Mac for lunch, and managed to take full advantage of “Mexican Buffet Night” at your college cafeteria. Want to know the damage? At SUNY-Plattsburgh, students need only walk up to their cafeteria computer to get the full nutritional scoop on their daily diet. The Nutrient Network developed by Marriot Management Services tallies daily intake of calories, cholesterol, protein, saturated fat, and carbohydrates after a student punches in his or her daily menu. A green light indicates that the student’s percentage of daily allowances is in an acceptable range, a yellow light signifies “borderline,” and the red light signals that there is “cause for alarm.” The computer program first was tested at the SUNY-Plattsburgh campus cafeteria and is being introduced at other campuses nationwide.

Raw chicken and beer bottles thrown at cheerleaders

IOWA CITY, IA—Flying raw chicken and beer bottles from the student section at Kinnick Stadium has forced University of Iowa cheerleaders to seek a safer place to perform. There were no injuries during the Iowa-Michigan game, but the ongoing problem has caught the eye of those in charge of security at UI football games.

Academic and Educational Policy, Buildings and Grounds, Institutional Advancement, Athletic Policy, Student Life, Admissions and Financial Aid, and Finance and Budget. Rosenbach says, “I feel confident that we will get representation on at least four of the seven committees, but it’s possible that we could get the whole package.” He expects to receive representation on the Athletic Policy, Student Life, and Admissions and Financial Aid committees. Rosenbach is fairly confident that a representative will be allowed on the Buildings and Grounds Committee, and also possibly on the Institutional Advancement Committee, which deals mainly with college fundraising. He does not expect to receive student representatives on the Finance and Budget or Academic and Educational Policy committees—the former because “the trustees seem to feel that committees that are highly technical won't be benefited by student representatives,” and the latter because “they deal with many tenure issues.” Rosenbach sees the outlook as good. “I was actually surprised how receptive many of the trustees were to the proposal,” he says.

At our scoop shop, you can order great ice cream, a Cappuccino, a frozen yogurt, a steamy hot chocolate with real whipped cream, or a hot fudge sundae.

VERMONT'S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT
507 Providence Rd. * 333-1003
The Arboretum * 543-8333
202 S. Main St. * Davidson * 892-0604

JACKSON - EXECUTIVE COACH
EXECUTIVE LOUNGE COACHES LEASED BY THE HOUR OR BY THE DAY
COACHES SEAT 20 PEOPLE AND INCLUDE 10 RECLINER SEATS, 2 COUCHES, TV, VCR, CD PLAYER, AND A WET BAR!
1612 WEST MORELAND ROAD * CORNELIUS, NC 892-0118 OR 892-1134

DAVINO'S IS THE PERFECT PLACE FOR GROUPS!
Group Specials (10 or more) - Price (per person)
* Spaghetti with Marinara Sauce $5.00
* Chicken Parmesan $6.50
* Lasagna $6.50
* All specials include bread, salad, and drinks.

OR

Order 5 or more 16 inch, one topping pizzas for only $6.00 apiece!

STUDENTS DON'T FORGET!
Wednesday night is student night:
* $3.50 pitchers of beer
* $4.75 all you can eat pizza

Call Steve for specials information and reservations. 892-4794