Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

50 YEARS OLD

The Davidsonian

FROM THE EDITOR
BOB DUNHAM, 1969

Inherited the Earth

In the Alps, there are small cabins for skiers and hikers who find themselves in the mountains at the end of the day. The cabins are small, spare, but they have beds and fireplaces and are stocked with firewood. They are available without charge, except that the overnight tenant is asked to replenish the woodpile before leaving. Those cabins provide a useful metaphor for the lives most of us live, regularly using wood other people have chopped, drinking from wells we did not dig, gaining educations largely through the efforts of scholars who have preceded us and parents or benefactors who have paid our way. We live as heirs of the gracious planning and forethought and labors of others.

Such an observation runs counter, it would seem, to the prevailing cultural wisdom, which says that we are beholden to nobody, that we are responsible for no one other than ourselves, and that anything which taxes us for the benefits of others is scandal. Equipped with such wisdom, we absolve ourselves of the problems facing our communities without even a twinge of guilt, eschewing any talk of responsibility by asserting our own language of rights. We thus become critics of those who manage and govern rather than creative agents who invest themselves in solutions. We become people who drain the life from our communities rather than responsible stewards who replenish and restore.

Living as we do in community with others, however, all of us are indebted to those who have cleared the way for us, who have paid the price for our abundance. So indebted, each of us has a responsibility to chop wood for the sake of those who will come after us. Education which dissuades us from such action is a contradiction indeed.

---

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994

Global (and local) changes
By William Robert

Change is the operative word in any description of Davidson in the late sixties and early seventies. It came at all levels — global, national, institutional, and individual — and affected the political, intellectual, and social climates at Davidson.

Davidson expanded beyond national boundaries in 1964 by approving the first Junior Year Abroad programs in France and Germany. The cost of the programs was $2,400 for the year. The institution itself was also rapidly changing as the college expanded its intellectual horizons at home. The first full-time female professor, Dr. Cora Louise Nelson, was hired by the Economics Department in the fall of 1964. Davidson moved to a three-term academic calendar in the fall of 1968; in the same meeting, the faculty established the 1/4 cut limit which still holds. The Student Government Association was created in the winter of that year when students adopted their first new constitution since 1896. In October of 1968, the Board of Trustees adopted the Code of Responsibility, which allowed students to drink alcohol on campus for the first time. A week later, Free University began classes with 235 students from Davidson, Queens, and the town of Davidson; its aim was to provide learning not otherwise available at Davidson. ROTC was made voluntary in the spring of 1969, and area exams were abolished that fall. In the winter of 1971, exams were self-scheduled for the first time, and Saturday classes became a thing of the past.thing of the past two years later. One of the biggest institutional changes came in September of 1968 when Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. was elected to the presidency of Davidson College. His wisdom would lead the college through 15 years of transformations that would alter Davidson forever. The most important change of this period — perhaps in the history of Davidson College — came on May 5, 1972, when the trustees unanimously approved immediate coeducation. The next fall, 29 degree-seeking and 57 total women enrolled at Davidson. Davidson students became increasingly active in national and international politics during this period, and The Davidsonian covered every protest and march. The Committee for Student Action was formed in 1965 to coordinate activism and to create “a liberal student voice on campus.” In 1967, this group sent a letter to President Johnson protesting American involvement in Vietnam; the letter was signed by more than 100 campus leaders. Students also organized a lecture, film, and discussion series entitled “Why War?” that ran that winter. Two years later, student efforts succeeded in canceling classes and declaring October 15 a moratorium for the end of the Vietnam conflict. In May of 1970, the campus erupted in SGA-backed protest over Cambodia and Kent State. Students continued to stay politically active; in November of 1973, The Davidsonian called for all students to write their Congressmen supporting the impeachment and conviction of President Nixon.

The social atmosphere was also in constant flux during this period. A 1964 editorial proposed a radical end to the overcrowded telephone problems: a phone in every room. Fraternities were forced to remove racial discrimination clauses from their by-laws in the fall of 1965. The average GPA for that year was 1.698, and Dionne Warwick highlighted the performers at Spring Frolics. A year later, Dr. Tony Abbott told students in a public address that they needed more courage “to risk being wrong”; he went on to say that “well-written bull ... will always be rewarded.” Richardson and Duke dorms were opened to women visitors for the first time in April of 1968, and a year later, mandatory chapel hour was abolished. A major change came in 1970 when the trustees approved self-selection and threatened to ban fraternities that remained selective. But the biggest change came when women were admitted for the 1972-1973 school year; no longer did Davidson men have to go “on the ad” to find dates and girlfriends, for women had finally arrived. This period without a doubt changed both the structure and the composition of all levels of Davidson. These changes were so dramatic that the Class of '64 would have hardly recognized their alma mater a decade later.