THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING

Cabaret features '30s Kit Kat Club
By Laura Leibfreid

Cabaret descended upon Davidson with all of the spice and splendor of a Broadway mainstage production. The cast, belonging to
a company known as 3D II International, Inc., played to a filled Love Auditorium last Monday night, as young and
old gathered together to enjoy the last of this year’s spectacular Artists Series’ performances.

Bright red spotlights highlighted an exquisite backdrop, adorned with classic ‘30s caricatures of sleazy men and buxom broads. A small
orchestra banged, squeaked, and tooted the first resounding tones of the evening, as the audience waited restlessly for the show
to begin. Within moments, a curious mime-like character dressed in a tuxedo and top hat sprang forward with cane in
hand and identified himself as the Master of Ceremonies. He proceeded to welcome the audience in a variety of languages,
his quirky gestures and facial expressions adding to the hilarity of the song, “Wilkommen.” As the tune progressed, singers and
dancers, clad in skimpy, voluptuous attire, joined the emcee to end the opener with an eruption of sound, color, and
movement.

Set in the late 1930s, Cabaret celebrates the peak of Germany’s popular nightclub decadence. Our all-American hero, Clifford Bradshaw, arrives
in Berlin to write a novel, not knowing he will soon be swept into the clutches of the carefree cabaret.
There, in a sassy saloon called the Kit Kat Club, Clifford meets Miss Sally Bowles, a “wild and unpredictable girl,”
who promptly decides to move in with “the American” in his newly acquired living accommodations. As their unlikely romance blossoms,
another love affair develops between the elderly landlady, Fraulein Schneider, and an admiring old gentleman, Herr Schultz. Tragically, the two
pairs are lost to one another with the coming of the second world war. Fraulein Schneider will not risk the
prosperity of her inn by marrying Herr Schultz, a Jew living within the boundaries of Hitler’s Nazi Germany. Sally, too,
cannot face the unrest of the time; she ultimately aborts the baby she and Clifford were to have, refusing to
escape with him to America. In the midst of political turmoil, she is determined to keep performing at the Kit
Kat Club while the rest of the world crumbles at her feet.

Despite such an unlikely, realistic ending, 3D II International, Inc.’s performance was truly enjoyable. The company’s showmanship and talent were
quite impressive. Each character, from the great Clifford Bradshaw to the lowliest of the Kit Kat Girls, played his or
her part to perfection. Cabaret proved to be the culmination of a wonderful year of entertainment.

Succulent summer treats

Carolina Cones
This Davidson favorite has maintained its status as the place to go for the best environment and the largest serving
sizes. The outdoor seating and music give Carolina Cones a competitive edge. Also, the service is genuinely helpful. The vanilla
ice cream was the best we tested, with a luscious, creamy texture. The chocolate has no weakness, either; but CC
is not as chocolate-oriented as Baskin-Robbins. The flavors are not overly creative or exotic, as CC caters to old favorites.
Mint chocolate chip is about as exciting as it gets. This tradition carries over into their movie selection, which includes
the classics, whether famous or not. The environment encourages conversation and relaxation, and the model train circling above adds a
unique touch.

Ben & Jerry’s
The highly anticipated arrival of this gourmet ice cream parlor last semester has not disappointed anyone. After years of rumors,
Davidson’s wish finally came true. The socially “cool” ice cream has been a longtime favorite for Davidson students mainly due
to the creative flavors like Chunky Monkey, Cherry Garcia, and Rainforest Crunch. The variety offered in the store is intriguing
and brings out the curiosity in any ice cream lover. However, the environment is cramped and not very comfortable. WhileRuskies
may enjoy the cow image; the company’s mascot is overdone in the store’s decorations and t-shirts. The incredibly creamy texture
is one of the few which is literally addictive. What other local ice cream can you sit down and eat
a pint without remorse? You cannot deny that B&J’s chocolate chip cookie dough is the best around. The vanilla was
super, and the chocolate was richer than most. However, savor those bites, because you don’t get many in that little
cup, even with the exorbitant prices. True B&J lovers will get a unique chance to avoid the high prices this
Friday, when the store holds a free ice cream day.

Musicians seduce audience

Concert continued from page 10

...provided the highlights of the next piece, “Take the A-Train.” Also popular in the ‘30s and ‘40s, this tune was
one of Duke Ellington’s signature works. The big finale for the evening came from “Channel One Suite,” one of Buddy
Rich’s best-known songs. This extremely complex piece was divided into three sections with lots of time changes. The slow, pretty
second section featured great interplay between the guitar and tenor sax—Justin Theriault ‘95 stole the spotlight with a long, sweet
sax solo. The third movement speeded up again as Karl Ruch’s brilliant drum playing closed out the show. Dr. Lawing
expressed his pleasure with the performance and the players themselves after the show. “It is rather astounding to hear how
much talent sits up there for nothing. It really is just for playing... There is no reason for these people
to work as hard as they work except for the fact that they love to do it.” Lawing also pointed
out that the ensembles involved more than just intense playing and practicing. “We have a lot of fun,” he said.
“I’m very pleased with how these groups have done this year.”

A rich, delicious brownie with Ben & Jerry’s ice cream or frozen yogurt, hot fudge, and fresh whipped cream!
307 Providence Rd. + 333-1003
The Arboretum + 543-8323
202 S. Main St. + Davidson + 692-0604

DRIVERS WANTED
PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA LAKE NORMAN IS NOW HIRING DRIVERS: EARN UP TO $3 TO $10 PER HOUR! (WAGES + TIPS
+ MILEAGE) CALL 396-7272 FOR INFO!

ACROSS
1 Low
5 Lather
9 Part of a dance?
12 Tropical plant
13 Small fly
14 Work by Frost
15 Judicial decree
17 Impolite
18 “Ben-—"
19 Yeltsin's land: abbr.
20 Fee
22 Delivered
23 Break into pieces
24 Meager
26 Uses a razor
27 Obese
28 Backbone
29 Certain actor
32 Newman or
44 Kay Thompson heroine
45 Ago
46 Oolong
49 Cross
50 Open areas
53 Capitol's roof
54 Wearies
55 Food regimen
56 Suppositions
57 Coaster
58 Sp. lady

DOWN
1 Classical composer
2 Name of baseball brothers
3 Tart
4 Always, to a bard
5 Initial
6 Chances
7 Ripen
8 Vendor
9 Wooings
10 Row of shrubs
11 Eastern VIP
13 Steed
14 Chatter
16 Eng. river
21 Own
22 Writer Bellow
23 Glow
24 Night sight
25 Trial places
26 Barbecue equipment
27 Health farm
28 Rises high
30 To shelter
31 Mal de —
33 Shields
34 Roll up, as a flag
36 Individuals
37 Grimy
39 Omit a syllable
40 Party givers
41 “Aida”
42 Distant
43 Had concern
45 Unsullied
46 Threesome
47 Biblical garden
48 The Thin Man's dog
51 Grease
52 Total

ANSWERS
n HOON SEO
oOn0 BODO
DOBOOOROOOH
DEO BOON
BOR OE)
ODODE)
13] S} ¥} 8)
