2. THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 1994

MEET THE CANDIDATES

SGA President

ERIC ROSENBACH
Junior Political Science Major

What has been your most significant contribution to SGA or the Davidson community?

“As far as SGA, freshman and sophomore year, I was class president so in terms of leadership, I think my first year and a half here, since I went abroad the second half of my sophomore year, I contributed good leadership. That entails everything from good representation of my classmates to contributing to things like the Student Conduct Council. I think that’s a significant contribution to Davidson.”

In your opinion, what were the SGA’s most important accomplishments of 1993?

“I have a lot of respect for the things that Alden has done. I think a lot of the things he did took courage because they were things that hadn’t really been thought of before because of where we went over different things within the Davidson constitution and the by-laws and things like that. Also involved with that were things with the alcohol policy where I thought I represented a point of view that maybe wasn’t so popular with the administration but was what I thought my classmates wanted to hear. These are all things under the presidential. I was a co-chair of the phonathon committee where we raised over $100,000 for the school. I think the Statement of Purpose was a very good accomplishment, although it’s not been completed yet. Alden’s brought things up to the front so where they’re now being examined and it looks as though things like that will continue. The statement that all members of the Trustees have to be active members of the Christian church, that just doesn’t speak, in my opinion, very well of the Davidson community.”

Current activities or commitments: Dean of Students Search Committee, ROTC, Dean Rusk Student Advisory Council President, Big Brother, Hall Counselor

Major campus concerns: “The Trustee Complex,” social options, student-faculty relationships

Post-Davidson aspirations: Foreign Service

Campaign promises: To push the current reforms into reality (Statement of Purpose, etc.)—to nurture a better trustee vs. student-faculty relationship (I have reform ideas)—strong push and advocate for new union—develop the new Dean of Students as a strong advocate—stand my ground on issues that are important to the student body

B.J. RUDELL
Junior Political Science Major

What has been your most significant contribution to the SGA or the Davidson community?

“There is no one significant contribution that I have tried to make. I don’t believe, and I’ve never believed, in trying to create the perfect society in Davidson, in trying to establish something so far-reaching that it will affect so many people because many of those people affected may not like it. So I try to reach those people who have legitimate and very common issues that they’d like to correct, particularly the perspective of the Trustees, let’s say. When clustering was removed, fighting to get that back, when the benches were taken out in front of Sentelle and Cannon, lobbying and pressuring the house and grounds to put those back, things that individually taken may not seem like great contributions, but when taken as a whole, I feel I’ve devoted myself to Davidson.”

With that in mind, how can Davidson reconcile its historical connection to the Christian tradition and its current ambition to be more inclusive?

“It’s clear that the student government as a whole and as a majority took the side of feeling that the Statement of Purpose is obsolete and that it needed to be changed to coincide with student life and what was expected of a student. Obviously, those two issues especially stick out. I’ve been happy to be a part of it.”

Experience: Freshman class president, sophomore class president, Activities Tax Council (ATC) member, Student Conduct Council (SCC) member, co-chair of Phonathon

Current activities/commitments: Head of Trustee Contact Committee, student head of New Housing Committee, student liaison to Residence Life, weekend campus garbageman

Major campus concerns: More respect from administrators, infirmary, school calendar, Baker sports

Post-Davidson aspirations: Devoting myself to public service

Campaign promises: There is no grand plan I wish to thrust upon the studentsof this school, no all-encompassing agenda that will right every wrong or bring unprecedented peace and harmony to this campus. No one is so naive as to think this is possible. I can only pledge to do nothing more than work my butt off for the next twelve months, just as I have done for the past two-and-a-half years. There is no greater promise I can make.

more progressive or tolerant? “I think there is definitely a way to do both. What you have to look at is the many different students on campus—many of whom are Christian, many of whom are non-Christian. Just because there is a division between the two groups, does not mean that we have to choose one path. The Statement of Purpose, as I would like to see students. When people come to me with a complaint, I’d like to think that I go out and make sure that that complaint is heard by the people who need to hear it.”

In your opinion, what were SGA’s most important accomplishments in 1993? “We’ve tackled a lot of tough issues this year: Statement of Purpose, and the make-up of the Trustees. I think that Alden did a very good job in establishing what he wanted to do with student government. I feel the majority of the student government supported the changes in the Statement of Purpose and the Trustee make-up to make it more diverse, and more appealing, and more embracing of the people on campus. This campus is not what it was 20 years ago, and the faculty are not what they were 20 years ago, and the Trustees are the only ones still seem to lie behind in that it keeps the school bounded in the Christian tradition on which it was founded. There is no reason to remove any memory of that fact, because that would almost show our embarrassment of being founded on such a tradition and I don’t think that is right. Being non-religious, I really have to take a very impartial view and say that while I am very much for diversity and I am very much for making this school more progressive in its thought, there are many students who obviously don’t feel the same way. I’m not ready at all to instill my moral beliefs on other people and force them to believe as I believe. I think that as a president, it is important to be a figurehead for the students and not just take my own beliefs into account. Although in some areas they will be taken into account but in the question of religion and morality and what’s right and what’s wrong, what

Davidson campus $100,000--something like that. That was for two different years. That was a significant contribution I would think. “To the Davidson community I’ve done community service—Habitat for Humanity, I’ve gone some Saturdays with my house. I’ve been the community service coordinator for PiKA for the last year and we’ve done a lot of different things that I don’t think my fraternity’s ever done before at all—as far as raising money for the Arosa House and also for Habitat for Humanity. Like I said, I’m a big brother so that’s a more individual affect on the Davidson community. “Also for the Davidson community this year I’m on the Dean of Students Search Committee so I’ve been going through the x number of applicants that we’ve had this far and looking for a person that I think will be able to do a good job as the next dean of students. It’s a very difficult job to replace that is trying to get rid of exclusiveness because that seems to be a very exclusive statement. That is a very big thing. “More than anything I think the 1993 year SGA president and the SGA did a good job of representing the student view in circumstances where it may have been tough. At other times, I don’t think the SGA has always actually demonstrated the student point of view. I think this year it was very evident that that was the case.”

How can Davidson reconcile its historical connection to the Christian tradition and its current ambition to be more progressive and tolerant? “I actually don’t think this is a very big problem because although Davidson has a very strong Christian tradition, it can still have that Christian tradition while being more progressive or tolerant. I think there is definitely a way to do both. What you have to look at is the many different students on campus—many of whom are Christian, many of whom are non-Christian. Just because there is a division between the two groups, does not mean that we have to choose one path. The Statement of Purpose, as I would like to see students. When people come to me with a complaint, I’d like to think that I go out and make sure that that complaint is heard by the people who need to hear it.”

See Eric on page 4

See B.J. on page 7