12 - MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1994 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING

Frolicking in the farmyard: paintings by John Borden Evans

By George Weld

The paintings by John Borden Evans ‘79 in the current exhibit at the Christa Faut Gallery contain the familiar images
of farm animals—cows, chickens, sheep, pigs, a goat, a deer, and a dog. And the paintings have, initially, something of
the look of folk art: they are flat, slightly roughly rendered, and compositionally spare. These qualities in paintings are, on
their own, nothing remarkable, especially in the South. But Evans is not, with this show, displaying his talents as a
painter of folksy farm life; he is not working unquestioningly in a folk idiom. What is impressive about these paintings
is not their quaint renderings of farm life, but their subversion of such renderings and their challenges to a folk
convention.

The primary concern in these paintings is composition: the animals seem more incidental than significant, the landscapes more experimental than
expository. The paintings are obviously arrived at rather than planned. They are thickly layered with paint, revealing the many stages
that each piece went through before it emerged as one of the “imaginary views of the world” that Evans says
they are. In this way, the paintings have something of the quality of abstract paintings: formal but for the farm
life they depict.

For instance, in Four Cows (the only canvas in the show), traces of previous stages of the painting haunt the
final product: there are nearly washed-out images of cedar trees in a row across the top of the painting, four
large but inconspicuous fingerprints across the middle, and then four boldly painted cows, the final subjects of the painting, in
the bottom corner of the canvas. The effect of this layering and of allowing elements of the painting’s history, as
it were, to remain is to give an otherwise entirely flat painting a feeling of depth and intricacy that is
uncommon in more conventional folk styles.

Another interesting instance of Evans’ use of the submerged layers of his paintings to enrich the final one is Kahnscape
with Cows. In this piece, an otherwise docile and bucolic pasture scene is electrified by the hints and remnants of
the penultimate layer of the painting, a layer of shockingly bright color. Evans has scraped through the farm scene to
expose some of this Kahnscape (that is, in the style of Wolf Kahn), and he has allowed some of it
to show around the edges. As a result, the farm scene seems to be floating peacefully but not unthreatened above
a chaotic and antagonistic background.

Many of the paintings in this show use the technique of complicating the final layer of paint by exposing previous
layers, but this technique is not Evans’ only trick. Other paintings, especially Three Cows and Seven Heifers and Seven Cedars,
toy with a tension between flatness and depth or, as in the case of Calf or Black Sheep, with perspective
and the physical boundaries of the painting. The result is often humorous or playful, lighthearted but not unsophisticated.

Photo By Brandon Clarke
Evans exhibits his work in the Christa Faut Gallery through November 14th.

I found this to be an interesting, satisfying show. Evans’ paintings are complex without being cumbersome; they are pacific without
being easy or naive. And they are selling like hot pajamas—go get one while you still have a choice. The
show continues through November 14.

Moss opens another can of worms with list of the best songs

By Jim Moss

On the heels of the overwhelming appreciation of MY favorite rock albums, I shall now attempt to evaluate some of
the top individual songs in rock and roll.history. IN MY OPINION. The same four criteria apply: songwriting ability, quality of
musicianship and production, depth, and influence. I will start with the obvious and move to the more obscure.

1) PURPLE HAZE (Some American who tried to become a Brit) Just kidding! I don’t need to say anything about
this song.

2) STRAWBERRY FIELDS FOREVER (Some crazy Brits) As my room/bandmate continually exposes me to the intricacies of these rock/pop giants,
I am gradually gaining a greater respect for their music. The funky chords and unconventional time changes are mind-boggling because
the song flows naturally. Need I comment on the lyrics?

3) STAIRWAY TO HEAVEN (Some more crazy Brits) As worn-out as it may be, “Stairway” remains one of the best-written
and most powerful songs. Why do you think it was so popular?

4) BOHEMIAN RHAPSODY Even though it took a juvenile movie to give it full notoriety, this song completely obsoletes the
rock and roll formula. Actually dubbed “quirky” by one industry “expert,” this song relates the horrifying mental anguish of a
man facing the death penalty. The powerful harmonies and intense contrasts bring the music to the level of the message:
“Nothing really matters ... anyone can see ... nothing really matters to me.”

5) FREEBIRD (Some crazy Southerners) This song violates two of my criteria and therefore does not belong on the list.
I do need, however, to include something to stir up controversy. The main selling point of “Freebird” is its likeability.
It’s a catchy tune with an absolutely incredible five or six minute knock-down, guitar free-for-all. Notice the lack of any
music released in the last 14 years. It takes a long time for a great song to grow old.

Now for the closet classics.

1) FIRE (Jimi Hendrix, Are You Experienced?) Although frequently covered, this song nonetheless will always play bridesmaid to “Purple Haze.”

2) THE RAIN SONG (Led Zeppelin, Houses of the Holy) Just listen to it.

3) EIGHT MILES HIGH (The Byrds) Caution: may interact with other substances.

4) KILLER QUEEN (Queen, Greatest Hits I) No one can match the style of these guys.

5) BLACK WATER (Doobie Brothers, Greatest Hits) By far the best work of this Doobious group. Sorry.

6) EVERY LITTLE THING SHE DOES IS MAGIC (The Police, Ghost in the Machine) “It’s a big enough umbrella, but
it’s always me that ends up getting wet.”

7) I BELIEVE (Tears for Fears, Songs from the Big Chair) A haunting tribute to the hopelessness of humanity.

8) BROTHERS IN ARMS (Dire Straits, Brothers in Arms) The cream of this band’s understated approach.

9) RUNNING TO STAND STILL (U2, The Joshua Tree) A powerfully simple and simply powerful ballad showcasing Bono’s vocal talent.

10) ESTRANGED (Guns N' Roses, Use Your Illusion II) As is typical in the music industry, a band’s best song
is a commercial flop.

11) THORN IN MY PRIDE (Black Crowes, The Southern Harmony and Musical Companion) Only time I’ve heard gospel piano on
WRFX...

Obviously, I could make a list of hundreds of great songs. Such is the life of a music critic...

Gear Up For Winter At...

OUTDOORS

Bring in your parents for 10% OFF anything in the store with a Davidson I.D.

Patagonia Shops on the Green: Exit 28. Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn

mont-bell

October 10.

Columbia Sportswear Company

IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN A CAREER IN BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH, WHICH INCLUDES NEW DRUG DEVELOPMENT, DRUG ACTION IN THE BODY,
ENVIRONMENTALLY TOXIC CHEMICALS, ETC., THEN THE UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA AT CHAPEL HILL URGES YOU TO APPLY, AS A GRADUATE
STUDENT, TO OUR DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACOLOGY FOR FALL OF '95. PHONE (919) 966-1153. APPLICATION DEADLINE IS 1/31.
