THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1994 11

Hong Kong and Vietnam host adventurous summer

By Renu Bhatt

In the midst of the chaotic hustle and bustle of Hong Kong and the looming memories of the war in
Vietnam, Eric Rosenbach spent last summer traveling through these various regions of Asia, gaining first-hand experience to enhance his senior
thesis. Rosenbach, a senior from Pennsylvania, is a political science major who would like to go into foreign service. He
is planning to do his thesis on the “economic and political transition in Vietnam.”

After visiting Eastern Europe, Rosenbach’s interest was spurred to study economically disadvantaged nations and their developments. Thus, after being awarded
a Ratcliff Endowment with a Dean Rusk grant, he decided to focus on third world development. He went to Hong
Kong to study the city’s political transition. In 1997, Hong Kong, which is currently a British possession, will become a
Chinese acquisition. At present, Hong Kong’s currency is the Hong Kong dollar, which is different from the rest of China.
The standard of living in the city, says Rosenbach, is comparable with that of the United States.

Despite his time in Hong Kong, Rosenbach’s main interest focused on Vietnam, where he spent a month backpacking “solo,” staying
in hotels or in family huts in villages. Surprisingly, the Vietnamese are very happy to meet Americans. Rosenbach says the
people are “so poor, yet so nice.” A “major difference is their outlook on the war.” The countryside is still
strewn with active bombs. Each year farmers are killed by explosions while tilling the soil. Poverty-stricken people use metal detectors
to find scraps of metal left over from detonated bombs to sell, and they sometimes set off remnant bombs.

“Everyone rides bicycles,” Rosenbach notes. There are hardly any cars because no one can afford them. Rosenbach, however, rented a
motorcycle to explore the countryside. He says that “the country is really, really scenic. People were so friendly and beautiful.
And the food there was so amazing because of the French influence.” Kids like to have their pictures taken. The
people also enjoyed pulling Rosenbach’s hair because they have so little body hair. They were also amazed at how tall
he is since they are, for the most part, considerably shorter.

SPRING BREAK '95- SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!!! Student Travel Services is now hiring campus representatives. Lowest rates
to Jamaica, Cancun, Daytona and Panama City Beach. Call 1-800-648-4849

The only paved road in Vietnam runs from Hanoi to Saigon. Rosenbach’s most adventurous experience was when he approached the
Cambodian border on his motorcycle. Once he got into a tiny, bordering village, the police arrested him! The region had
just been opened to foreigners, so he looked suspicious. After a couple of hours, a ten dollar bill got him
out of the predicament.

Rosenbach reflected on the amount of Communist propaganda that plasters the country. They refer to Ho Chi Minh as “Uncle
Ho.” “Ho Chi Minh is like a deity,” says Rosenbach. For the most part, people were so friendly, but some
people showed hostility. However, people were too intimidated by his size to do anything.

On the whole, Rosenbach looks back fondly on his experiences abroad. He seems to have fallen in love with the
Vietnamese people and their country. He adds that “the culture shock coming home was worse than the culture shock going
there!”

“Sexually Speaking” with Dr. Ruth

Wednesday, November 9, 7:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium

Tickets on sale in the College Union beginning Wed. Oct. 26

$2 faculty, staff & students $5 general admission (Available only beginning Nov. 2)
