—me-so-much lately. I lie down to sleep, and I see him. It’s almost like he’s following me around. His prom picture sits on my desk, and in it he smirks the way only he knew how. We had doubled to the prom that year, and I remember how nervous he had been. On my shelf sits a 5’x7’ of him. He looks over his shoulder before a soccer game; I didn’t know then that his soccer days were numbered. As I flip through a photo album, I see another picture of him. This one makes my stomach ache. He’s with the guys, smiling and tan. The guy behind him has a t-shirt on that says “Thy time hath come.”

My last words to him were terribly sarcastic. I had no reason to say anything different; we were always in the midst of a battle of minds. I happened to have the last word this time. I didn’t realize a simple sentence would haunt me for the rest of my life. But it has.

The news came at five in the morning. My brother, my strong and self-assured brother, awoke me with a spastic shake. I couldn’t focus for a few seconds. As I came to, I saw he was crying. And quietly, in a voice I could barely understand, my brother said that he was gone. I shouted at him to shut up, to quit lying, to leave my room. He turned and left. I tried desperately to sleep away the nightmare. I willed myself to ignore the news, but I couldn’t. Finally, I got out of bed and went into the room where my brother sat with a list of people his parents had given us to call. I sat beside him, silent. And soon the room began to fill up with friends, teammates, schoolmates, and rivals. I merely sat, observing. Finally, when I could take it no longer, I retreated into a small corner of my house to yell at him, to plead with him, to make the pain go away. It didn’t happen.

The day wore on slowly. I went to his house to be with his family, all of our friends, and many people I didn’t know. We shared stories, tears, and our fear of losing yet another one of us to drinking and driving. We were struggling to grow up, and we were killing ourselves in the process. His girlfriend lay in my lap crying helplessly. He died in the midst of their first fight, a fight because she couldn’t express her love for him. She was screaming it now. I had never heard such passionate tales of love. The thought swirled around in my mind that declaring love after the fact was something no one should have to face. My last words had been sarcastic; hers had been bitter. We were both battling with it now.

The funeral was on a beautiful, cold winter day. The church was packed; the mourners spilled out into the yard. Girls sat with roses in their hands and the guys sat with tears streaming down their faces. And boys, forced to become men as they donned the responsibility of being their best friend’s pallbearers, wept like infants. I walked up to his open casket and stared at him. His shirt was buttoned all the way up and I fought the urge to unbutton it the way he wore it. I bent down to give him a final kiss and to apologize for the words I had last spoken.

See Mark on page 9

Nathan Seay

I am woman. As I’m sure all of you know, I have very few conversations with women on this campus. I’ve thought about the reasons why most women won’t give me the time of day, and I cannot find an answer. Since this is my last semester here at Davidson, I decided that it was high time to find out why it is impossible for me to hold the attention of a girl for more than three words. I tried to get an explanation from a girl, but she just punched me after she told me to stop staring at her behind. I was desperate, and, as they say, desperate times call for desperate measures. Horror of horrors, I decided to do something that is more terrifying to men than mice to an elephant. No, more scary than an elevator to a claustrophobe. No, more scary than sleep to an insomniac. Oh, never mind. You get the idea. I attempted to get in touch with my feminine side. Yes, I know it’s horrible, but that’s just how desperately I need to be loved. I had no other alternatives. I was confident that in doing this I would be able to find out the answers to all my questions about women.

I started by watching Anne of Green Gables. It didn’t take. I was asleep before the first tape was finished. I tried it again, this time while drinking pot after pot of coffee. I made it the whole way through this time. I didn’t understand it, but I thought that I could feel a small spark of estrogen coursing through my veins. It was the beginning of something magical. The next movie I popped in was Pretty Woman. I knew I was making progress because I could tell that Richard Gere really did care for Julia Roberts. The last time I saw this movie, I thought that it was one of the most overrated, silly, and—yes—anti-feminist movies ever made. Well, maybe I have seen a movie...or two with John Holmes that could be construed as slightly more anti-feminist. But you get the idea. I was so proud of myself that I decided to take the next step. I went to the library and got every Charlotte Observer printed over the past year. Flipping to the comics section, I started reading a comic that has been much neglected by those of us with only one X chromosome: Cathy. I couldn’t believe it. I was laughing out loud at Cathy’s misadventures. I even occasionally spoke to Cathy: “Oh, Cathy, you ate all the ingredients to dinner again? Hahaha! You’re killing me! Ho ho ho!” I could really identify with her trying on those bathing suits. You can tell that men design those things. After my experience with Cathy, I decided that I was ready to take that final drastic step. I picked up a copy of Revolution From Within by Gloria Steinem. That book changed my life. My self-confidence improved, I found that I was asserting myself much better, and I no longer felt I had to have a husband to define myself. At last, I did it! I knew after Gloria spoke to me that I had come full circle. My feminine side was alive and kicking. I needed to celebrate.

Statement of purpose should be left alone.

Walton continued from page 7

...would mark the beginning of changing the unique church into an everyday, dime-a-dozen concert hall. The Christian church members who understand the significance of this change need to stand strong and be loud in order to hold onto the Christian roots that this very musically blessed church sprang from in the first place. What is the purpose of singing, anyway? In the church, its purpose is to praise, give thanks, and to share a great gift. Losing sight of that, the choir loses its goal and its vision. It becomes a competition to become better than the next singer or better than the church choir next door. And what is the purpose of education, anyway? In the words of St. Bernard of Clairvaux, “There are those who seek knowledge for the sake of knowing, that is curiosity. There are those who seek knowledge to be known by others, that is vanity. There are those who seek knowledge in order to serve, that is love.” Let us not lose sight of that.

Sincerely,
Sharon Walton
Würzburg, Germany

I wanted to show the world that I had accomplished what few males on the planet ever have: I understood women. I actually felt emotions. I watched a whole episode of Little House on the Prairie (an accomplishment in itself), and I didn’t once think of seeing Melissa Gilbert’s pictorial in Playboy. Anyway, I decided to look like how I felt on Saturday. Yes, I dressed as a woman. I found this scrumptious dress and slipped it on. I must admit, it looked stunning on me; I just knew that I would turn heads that night. I put my hair in pigtails and hit the party. My feminine side abandoned me the second a girl touched my arm. I guess it must have been the fact that girls don’t touch me every day. I was shocked. I was soon reduced to a slobbering, insensitive male. The change in sex seemed to go unnoticed by the women at the party. I am wearing a dress to every party I ever go to for the rest of my life. I was brushed, touched, hugged, talked to, laughed at, and generally acknowledged by more girls on Saturday night than in my entire 22 years of life. I don’t have any idea where my feminine side went. But the important thing is I found how to get girls to talk to me. While the chances of my dress-clad body enticing a girl back to my room remain as small as ever, I did get a couple of guys’ phone numbers. Now if I could just get in touch... Nah, never mind.

Robert Ramsay

Drugs are growing in America. “For the first time in more than a decade, drug use among junior and senior high students has been rising rather than falling.” This is a quote from the front page of the February 1 issue of The Charlotte Observer. Gary Blonston begins what could have become an inspired piece of journalism, but never goes much further than base facts. Many of these facts are surprising, nonetheless. Illegal drugs, on the whole, are increasing in popularity among teenagers. It turns out that the one drug for which esteem is still diminishing is tobacco, and fewer high school seniors smoke than did a year ago. Also, the group least likely to experiment with controlled substances is blacks. According to Donna Shalala, “They, more than any other group of young Americans, know what the consequences are of drug use.” The other young Americans who are not as wise comprise 31% of the total young American population. This figure is significant because it is an increase from last year, but one must take into account the number of one-time users that figure includes—those nervous rebels who drop acid once and scare themselves so bad that they have nightmares for a week. Blonston’s article is marginally informative, but if you want a truly enlightening report on the resurgence of drugs into youth culture, read Dana Kennedy’s “The Young and the Reckless” in the November 26, 1993, issue of Entertainment Weekly (the most engaging, qualified, well-written magazine in America). Her report was published following the death of River Phoenix, whose autopsy revealed varied amounts of heroin, cocaine, marijuana, Valium, and cold medication in his blood. Drugs like heroin and cocaine would hardly be avail-

See Drugs on page 9.