THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1994 13

Shoney's, Chat 'n Chew compete for B&E's old business
By Jeff Kent

Several months after the closing of favorite late-night diner and Cornelius landmark, Bacon and Eggs, two new restaurants have emerged
to fill the void. Shoney’s in Cornelius and Chat ‘n Chew in Mooresville recently opened their doors to the public,
offering a variety of menu items and various specials to lure in the old B&E regulars.

These two establishments offer completely different atmospheres and different styles of cooking, but both are worth a visit. Davidson students’
opinions concerning the new breakfast stops varied, but the one common complaint concerns the lack of 24-hour service. Both restaurants
close at 11 p.m. on weekdays; Shoney’s extends its hours to 1 a.m. Fridays and Saturdays. Despite the extended hours,
the essential 2-5 a.m. feeding period required by college students is not covered, leaving many worried about hunger pains.

For those who do not mind the early closing hours, the new restaurants offer a variety of specials attractive to
college students with tight purses. Shoney’s, located adjacent to the Holiday Inn in Cornelius, sets out an "all you can
eat" breakfast buffet every morning for either $4.99 or $5.99. The buffet is open from 6 a.m. until 11 a.m.
weekdays and until 2 p.m. on weekends. Davidson students who care to get up during those hours have found the
buffet a great deal. One Davidson student, notorious for finicky eating habits, found the breakfast buffet a pleasant surprise. The
student described the assortment of foods as “tasty, with a little something for everyone.”

In addition to the morning buffet, Shoney’s offers a regular menu which includes such American staples as burgers, chicken entrees,
and french fries. Overall, Shoney’s received fairly positive comments from students. However, a great deal of concern was expressed over
the lack of the traditional Shoney’s “Big Boy” in the storefront. Customers found eating without the familiar shadow of the
pudgy Shoney’s boy a little disturbing but not a matter of paramount importance.

Always spend a buck on a jukebox

With our beloved B&E banished from Cornelius and doomed to live only in our hearts and memories, we were left
hopelessly deprived of wholesome, satisfying, and cheap food. Undaunted, we tightened our belts and turned north, toward the only consolation
we could find: the Waffle House. Though it does not have movable tables, biscuits and gravy, or the unprecedented Beltbuster
Breakfast, Waffle House has become, over the year, our new late-night home.

What made the transition possible, however, was not the wondrous waffles, the motherly waitresses (though I love them dearly), or
the addition of “topped with chili” to the list of hashbrown options. It was the jukebox.

I live my life according to only three rules. First, always listen to a Hal Ketchum album before buying it.
Second, always order the pecan pie if it’s available. And third, always, always spend at least a buck on the
jukebox. So far, these rules have served me well—I own just one bad Hal Ketchum album (I used to live
by only two rules); I’ve never had a horrible dessert; and I’ve never, ever left a Waffle House in a
bad mood.

Simply put, jukeboxes inspire us. How many country (my editors recently told me they’ve been uncapitalizing “country” in my articles.
If they continue to do so, please write in and protest) songs use them as the vehicle to create a
profound metaphysical concept? “If Hell had a Jukebox,” “Don’t Rock the Jukebox,” “In the Corner of My Mind Stands a
Jukebox”—the list goes on and on. There are probably as many songs about jukeboxes as there are about Mamma. Lord
help us.

What is it about the music machines that inspire us so? Is it the eclectic mix? Is it the nostalgic
connotations? Is it the six for a dollar feature? Your guess is as good as mine. The only jukebox-related mysteries
I’ve unraveled have to do with waitresses. First, despite popular belief, most Waffle House waitresses do not like any of
the dozen or so Waffle House songs always present on a Waffle House jukebox. That’s a myth. Further, and more
important, your service, food, and relationship with your waitress improve substantially if you make it a point to do one
simple thing: before ordering, ask your waitress if there’sa song she wants to hear (she’ll probably respond with just a
number). It’ll make her day (or night). Keep in mind that, though you may hate the song, you’re making someone
happy. Next time you're at the Waffle House in Mooresville, slip in a few quarters. It’ll do wonders for your
disposition. If you’re there Saturday or Sunday morning (or early afternoon), play George Jones’ “She Stopped Loving Me Today” (#186)
and tell Michelle it’s for her. She loves that song and as long as she owns my heart, the least
I can do is make her smile.

TUESDAY | FEBRUARY 22

For those that prefer more traditional Southern cooking, Chat ‘n Chew opened for business about a month ago on Broad
Street in Mooresville. Although Chat ‘n Chew requires a longer drive, die-hard B&E fans will find the menu appealing. Former
Bacon and Eggs employee, Chat ‘n Chew manager Dottie Kail explains that their menu was modeled after the food served
at B&E. She states their motto: “If you miss the cookin’ at B&E, come on down and see the folks
at Chat ‘n Chew.”

Another attempt to attract Davidson students includes a room which the manager designed specifically for college students. The room contains
pinball machines, video games, a jukebox, and large tables for big groups. Chat ‘n Chew’s weekly specials include spaghetti on
Sunday nights, liver and onions on Monday, the po’ man’s special on Tuesday (you will have to visit to find
out), and an open-face special on Wednesdays. Pricewise, Chat ‘n Chew is comparable to its predecessor, B&E, with items ranging
from about $1.50 to $4.50. Chat ‘n Chew portrays a more rural, laid-back atmosphere than its big, corporate counterpart, Shoney’s,
but is frequented by a similar clientele.

Some evening and night courses and When requesting, The Davidsonian: Summer School CB #3340, 200 Petti Chapel Fax: 919-962-2752.

ON THE SCENE

WEDNESDAY | FEBRUARY 23
Medieval Society. Phi Hall, upstairs. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. Calling all Knights.
SGA Inauguration. Union Outpost, 7:00 p.m.
Eumenean Society. EU Hall, upstairs. 7:30-9:00 p.m.
Dean Rusk Study Break. International music and cuisine. Big Screen Room. 9:30-11:00 p.m.
Twenty-One-Year-Old Night. 900 Room. Tuesday, 10:00-12:30 p.m.

THURSDAY | FEBRUARY 24
Perry Crosswhite ’69. Secretary General, Australian Olympic Committee. The Olympic Movement and Sports on the International Scene. 900 Room, 7:30
p.m.
M. Butterfly. 900 Room, 9:30 p.m.

FRIDAY | FEBRUARY 25
Rituals. 900 Room, 4:15 p.m.
Gil White. Europe on 84 Cents a Day. 900 Room, 7:30 p.m.
Coffeehouse. 900 Room, 8:30-11:00 a.m.
Crop Lunch. 900 Room, 11:30 a.m.
Linda Reed. Food Use and Change in Alaskan Athabascan Funeral. 900 Room, 8:00 p.m.
Jumping Java Cafe. Union Outpost. 2-6 p.m.
Rush. Charlotte Coliseum. February 25 at 8:00 p.m. Call 704-522-6500 for tickets.
Davidson College Jazz Ensemble. 900 Room, 10:00 p.m.

SATURDAY | FEBRUARY 26
Rod Stewart. Carolina Coliseum, University of South Carolina, Columbia, S.C. February 27, 7:30 p.m. Call 803-777-7228 for info.
Jesus Christ Superstar. Ovens Auditorium, Charlotte. February 22-27. Call 522-6500 for tickets.
George Winston. Blumenthal Performing Arts Center, Charlotte. March 2, 7:30 p.m. Call 522-6500 for tickets.
Urban Bush Women. Dancers, mimes, and vocalists. Love Auditorium. March 8, 8:15 p.m.
Cowboy Junkies. Spirit Square, Charlotte. March 9 at 8 p.m. Call 522-6500 for tickets.
Widespread Panic. Lawrence Joel Veterans Coliseum, Winston Salem. Feb. 24. Call 522-6500 for tickets.
Col. Bruce and the Aquarium Rescue Unit. Ziggy’s, Winston Salem. March 26. 910-748-1.
Mary Ann Tolbert. When Resistance Becomes Repression: The Location of the Reader. Morrison Room, Union. 7:30 p.m.
Philanthropic Society. Phi Hall, upstairs, 9:00 p.m.

--Compiled by Scott McLean
