THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1994

The Davidsonian

LEIGH RAWDON - Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Executive Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Managing Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY - News Editor
RUSS TARVER - Assistant News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts & Living Editor
WILL COBB - Sports Editor
BROOKE McRAE - Photography Editor
WILLIAM ROBERT - Copy Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES - Advertising Manager
SCOTT HILE - Operations Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN - Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD - Circulation Manager
ERIK SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

Give thanks

Lately, we’ve heard that our editorials are too happy and progressive all the time. So here’s one that is mean, pessimistic, and generally misanthropic. Happy Thanksgiving, not.

As you return from your journey home for the holidays, remember what to be truly thankful for. It is easy to say that Thanksgiving was just a good time to catch up on work and sleep, a time to eat well and gain energy for the hard work that comes with December. But it was much more than that. For many of you, this was the first time you have been home since August, and you should be thankful for the time you had to see your family again after three arduous months at college. Homecomings like these give you a perspective on your life that you tend to lose with your nose always in a book.

As you sat at the table with your families, we hope you remembered and enjoyed the smell of casseroles and homemade rolls, the crunch of the leaves under your feet, and falling asleep on the couch in front of the Thanksgiving Day parade. We hope you remembered to appreciate your easy, indulgent lives, where you pretend to work hard all week to justify your weekend drinking binges. To look at your soft, college body, and remember what it looks like, because one of these days you’re going to have to roll off the couch, cut your shaggy hair, and get a real job. One of these days, you’re going to learn first-hand about the real world of pain and suffering that we live in. Maybe it will crush you. Maybe you will become a statistic, one of the thousands who become pieces of roadkill on the information superhighway. Maybe you'll try to escape it all, drive out to California and live underneath a wharf, subsisting on a diet of barnacles and salt water. Or, you just might learn to deal with the system and find a niche, a wrinkle in the establishment’s fabric that you can nestle into and lead out a comfortable, well-fed life, never questioning the insidious machine in which you are a replaceable cog.

When you go back home for Christmas, think about what Thanksgiving meant to you. Eat an extra piece of pumpkin pie, spend one more hour with your folks, and pet your dog one more time. Whatever it is you do for the holidays, do it well. The days of old will soon be gone. Soon, we will have to do our own laundry.

Thank God

This week, the SGA unanimously passed a resolution requesting that our religion professors no longer be required to be Christians. This idea was a long time coming. No other department has such a requirement for its professors, and while the religion professors we have now are wonderful, it is a shame that we can’t have a Buddhist teach courses in Zen or a Muslim teach courses in Islam. Davidson has and should retain strong ties with the Presbyterian Church, but not at the expense of its students. In the case of the religion department, there is no question that we would benefit from a little diversity. We’re glad the student government has spoken strongly in favor of this change, and we hope that it passes through the administration without delay.

THREE ANIMALS THAT GET THE SHAFT ON THANKSGIVING

LETTERS

SGA action proves disappointing

To the editors,

I would like to express my severe displeasure over the lack of action by the SGA in regards to the issue of presidential qualifications. At the meeting Tuesday night, the SGA voted to send a letter to the trustees explaining both sides of the argument and to postpone indefinitely their voting on the issue. In essence, they did nothing. In an act designed to “save political face” if the issue arises again, they abandoned their charge as representatives of the student body. The student government has been given the power and responsibility to address and respond to issues affecting students, in order to share in “developing and maintaining Davidson as a superior academic community” (SGA by-laws). As a student who has voted in every student government election since arriving at Davidson, I feel that I have given my representatives, and the SGA as a whole, the power to do just that. By choosingNot to voice an opinion, other than “people are talking about it,” they have abandoned their task of making decisions based upon the students’ views. I have never expected the SGA or my senators to agree with me at all times; the issue of presidential qualifications is a good example of the diversity of opinion I feel with many of them. Yet, I do expect and feel it is vital to have the SGA take a stand on the tough issues facing students. They have been given that responsibility and have abandoned it. Why have a student government represent us if they are not willing or able to make decisions? I again express my deep disappointment in the SGA.

Sincerely,
Matt Rich ’97

Thanks for the coverage

To the editors,

I would like to congratulate and thank your staff for such complete coverage of the past week’s Union sponsored or co-sponsored events. The people who produced these events not only spent hours planning and organizing volunteers, but also exhausted much emotional energy. Great articles on Flyin’ Mice, the Names Project Quilt, Dr. Ruth, the Student Talent Show, and the Fashion Show help to reassure our staff and students of the terrific job they do. Thank you again for your support and hard work.

Sincerely,
Molly Johnson
Davidson College Union Program Advisor

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Stop harassing the international students

To the editors,

I’ve never written a letter to the editor in my four years at Davidson. It’s not that many things have not moved me to speak, because they have. But I’ve never been so frustrated or moved before to take my pen in hand and write anything for The Davidsonian besides a fashion article. But this last week has confused and disturbed me so much, I can’t help but try at least to get someone to tell me why. I thought writing to The Davidsonian might be the only way to get the answer.

Why, after all of our progress, does Davidson still have cowardly hate crimes occurring secretly under the cover of voice mail? It was an astounding shock to me when, this week at our FLAG meeting, one of our members told me about the telephone harassment which has been directed at Davidson’s international students. Not that any group ever deserves to have such hate crimes committed against them, but the International Students? What the hell is going on? Whoever you are who is doing this, do you even know any of these courageous, vibrant, and friendly men and women who have left their own countries to help contribute to our community here? You must not. If you did, you’d understand my shock: How? Why? The idea is so amazing, so ridiculous, so horrifying, that I have no idea how to respond.

The saddest thing to me was the time frame in which this news was told to me. The night I first heard about the harassing phone calls, Hal Daugherty and I had called a FLAG meeting to thank all of our members for their tremendous contributions to the fashion show. We wanted to say “thanks,” because, four years ago, the idea that FLAG could sponsor such a fantastically successful event would be unthinkable. The Names Project Quilt had been an incredible success as well, and the time of hate I remember so vividly from my first year here seemed a thing of the past. I believed we had become a campus that would no longer tolerate intolerance. I said those very words to every PE 101 group I talked to this year. For these and many other reasons, the news of the harassing phone calls to international students horrified me so much.

It is as if the hate mongers on the campus never disappear — they just move on to another group as acceptance grows in their former area of harassment. I need to ask this whole campus, please don’t make a liar out of me, and express that you and everyone you know WILL NOT tolerate the hate crimes of other members of our community. Please help make Davidson a place I will be proud to graduate from. Let’s not go back to the hate of the past; we’ve already seen the devastation such xenophobia can cause.

Sincerely,
Cat Grimmell ‘95