ry b diy ie. Ba A THE DAVIDSONIAN a eee ds MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1994 7 The Davidsonian LEIGH RAWDON-Editor
in Chief ALEX CRUMBLEY-Executive Editor CASEY ROGERS-Managing Editor ASHLYN DANNELLY-News Editor RUSS TARVER-Assistant News Editor ROBERT RAMSAY-Opinions Editor RACHEL NEWCOMB-Arts
& Living Editor WILL COBB-Sports Editor BROOKE McCRAE-Photography Editor WILLIAM ROBERT-Copy Editor Founded in 1914 "The South's Foremost College Weekly"
BILL BRYAN-Advertising Manager KENNON GILES-Advertising Manager SCOTT HILE-Operations Manager JENNIFER JULYAN-Business Manager MARIA WHITEHEAD-Circulation Manager ERIK SJOSTROM-Circulation Manager v‘T WORRY.
7 CAN ALWAYS a DESTINATION - UNKNOWN _ For Beer Now HAVE to PAY LETTERS Article misrepresents Independents Lend us
an ear Friday morning, SGA President Eric Rosenbach will present to the trustees a proposal that students be allowed to
sit on trustee committees. As it stands now, students have neither a vote nor a voice on these committees which
address every aspect of campus life from financial policies to campus planning. But the SGA had an unpleasant surprise last
week. The proposal met outright disapproval from the faculty, our supposed allies in battles with the administration. We are perplexed
that the faculty do not support the proposal. The faculty themselves won the right to be represented on trustee committees
only three years ago. How quickly they forget the little people. Perhaps the college believes the faculty have more right
to representation because the college is their employer. Perhaps the college believes that the students are merely consumers of the
college’s resources and not valuable contributors. Yes, the faculty are here longer than any one student, but without the students,
we could hardly call Davidson a college. Rosenbach’s idea makes perfect sense. He is not even asking that students have
a vote on the trustee committees. All we need is to have a consulting voice in matters that affect our
lives. We all know that the real decisions are not made at SGA or CCRL meetings. Yes, these groups can
pass proposals and put pressure on groups that have power, but, no, students do not have direct influence on important
decisions. If the faculty cannot support us in our endeavor for representation, we ask that they do not hinder us.
Until the faculty and the students are represented in the chambers that host the most important and influential debates on
this campus—those that determine the future ideals and image of our college—we cannot consider ourselves a full part of our
own college. To the editors, I was both shocked and appalled at the inaccuracy and lack of information in last
week’s article Independent Representative Didn’t Make Ballot. It is unfortunate that such an important issue was so lackadaisically reported and
crucial information was left out. While it is the responsibility of the Independent Senators to have an Independent placed on
the ballot for Homecoming queen, this was a responsibility we were made aware of only at the last minute. Never
having served in this capacity before, we were understandably unfamiliar with this responsibility, and contrary to what the article suggested,
we had not been informed a week in advance. In the end, we struck a compromise and attempted a fair
selection process, but unfortunately, time had run out. It is an unfortunate fact that SGA elections and Homecoming elections were
too close in time (nearly a month closer than last year) to allow the Senators time to select a candidate
properly. It is also unfortunate that those who were aware of the situation well in advance did not make better
plans for such an eventuality. Independents, as the description would suggest, are not a united group who sit down to
regular meetings. Choosing a Homecoming candidate is not as easy a process as it is for an eating house and
requires more planning than a few days notice allows. I hope the organizers of the Homecoming event recognize their great
degree of culpability in the failure to include an Independent in the Homecoming Court this year and will make necessary
changes for the future to ensure Independents are not left out again. While Daniela Welsh suggests in the article that
the failure to have an Independent in Homecoming shows what the college thinks of Independents, I think theScant attention paid
this year to having an Independent selected gives a truer measure of respect for those not in a social house.

Sincerely,
Jonathan Orr, ’95
Independent Senator

I like Ike, but

To the editors,

Ike, you’re a great guy and I love you as a teammate, but in the spirit of the liberal arts
education I’m going to have to say you’re wrong. There was a lot of validity in your article about the
Confederate flag and I think that people need to take that into consideration when flying it or wearing it, but
some of the stuff you said last week overlooks some very important facts. Slavery ended a hundred years ago. Blacks
are not treated like animals. No matter how anyone tries to twist the facts you just simply cannot say that
things have not gotten better since slavery. And you admitted that although you used the facts I am about to
use in a different light. The fact that the black middle class is growing at twice the rate of the
white middle class and that they get 500 billion hours in formal education and 65% of them hold prestigious jobs
and that they can produce such great writers and other experts does not prove that blacks are superhuman but simply
that the system is improving and that more opportunities are opening to the black population. It is not “because they
are African-American,” but because they are equal and are finally getting treated that way.

I think it is important to ask ourselves, is prejudice dead? No, it is not, but it does not only
exist in the form of white against black. The reason I do not use the “politically correct” term African-American is
because it is prejudice. It leaves out all of the blacks who trace their ancestries back to the Caribbean and,
like Ike said Jesus might have, to the Middle East. It groups them all under African-American because that is where
the most vocal group comes from. That is pretty blatant prejudice. And to your question “What group could have endured
slavery and live to tell about it?” The Jews lived through it. The Christians lived through oppression worse than slavery
and survived. The various British and Northern European (Aryan) tribes were enslaved by the Romans. The point is slavery was
a horrible institution of the past. It is over now and the only way we are going to fix the
things it has done is to work together, not against each other, toward brotherly harmony between all races, sexes, and
creeds.

Sincerely,
Eric Sapp, ’98

Beasley reads The Davidsonian

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian
requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all
letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey
Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by
the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

It is about 3 p.m. Tuesday afternoon, the day after The Davidsonian has come out. Instead of preparing for tomorrow’s
classes, I have taken time to read thoroughly this week’s paper. What a good decision! Having just finished reading Bobby
Ramsay’s excellent interview with Donna Peters ’89, I must tell you how splendid this whole issue is. I read every
article, looked at every ad, and studied every opinion. I feel better informed about what is happening on campus, what
will happen, and what has happened. I especially appreciate the even-handedness of the news coverage and the depth of reports
on student activities. I guess this qualifies as fan mail. Thanks for helping me pass my lonely office hours productively
and enjoyably.

Sincerely,
Sara Beasley
Department of English
