OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 14, 1994 7

Jenn Williams

Discrimination in the workplace: In defense of anti-discrimination laws

After reading Walt Barron’s article last week, which, in my opinion, essentially justified discrimination in the workplace on the basis
of an employer’s subjective preferences, my first inclination (and somehow I have the feeling I’m not alone on this) was
to send him harassing mail. Instead, I chose to write a response article. Although I disagree so strongly with Mr.
Barron’s views that they won’t print the words in this paper that would describe it, I am trying to advocate
equal rights for everyone. As a member of this great nation, Mr. Barron is entitled to speak his mind. Now
that he’s done that, however, it’s my turn.

First, then, I would like to address the lovely analogy Mr. Barron made between being fired for discriminatory reasons and
being treated poorly by a sales clerk while shopping at a department store. True, if, as a consumer, you are
mistreated and choose to take your business elsewhere, the store will lose out, as the seller depends on your business
to survive. A company that fires a successful, qualified employee on the basis of the employer’s personal discrimination will not.
Allow me to elaborate. Most businesses are not going to lose much by firing such an employee because in this
country and at this junction in our economy, there are so many more qualified people than available jobs that essentially,
businesses can afford to pick and choose. In theory (or better economic times) this should be false. Right now, however,
it’s a reality. Mr. Barron makes it sound as if there are a thousand tailored job openings for every qualified
person that wants to work. I guess he’s never heard of the McJob.

McJob is one of those cute terms recently invented to describe the plight of the over-qualified, college-educated, minimum wage worker
of the Nineties. With that said, I’d like to present a little dilemma following Mr. Barron’s logic. If you are
fired from your job for whatever reason but are qualified (emphasized), you will undoubtedly get another job because you are
smart, hard-working, and deserve one. So, then, I could say that (following this logic) every member of the Davidson senior
class of 1994 who is still jobless after May 22nd of this year (and not for lack of searching) will
find him/herself in that situation because (s)he is ignorant and unqualified. Now, what I want to know, Mr. Barron, is
this: do you want to be the one to tell that to the McJob?

Reality bites.

Hello, gentle readers. This week I’m not in a very good mood, so please forgive me if my razor-sharp wit
is not up to its usual panache. I suppose I should let you in on my sorrows. Perhaps it will
cheer me up a bit. It seems to work with those people who constantly talk about how much work they
have. Or perhaps that’s just an indication of their small, insignificant lives. Wow. I’m more bitter than I thought. Perhaps
I should be seeing an analyst or something. Let me get to the point. This week I have (or had,
as you hold this gem of a paper with your ink-stained fingers) midterms on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. I’m not
asking for any consolation for this. I would trade one week of complete and utter hell for the semester I’ve
had so far. As Tim Sobon says, “I’d rather have good memories than good grades.”

My complaint is due to the fact that my social schedule this week is not at all what I’ve been
used to. What I am used to is this: Tuesday night I go to 21-year-old night at the Union; Wednesday
I pray for a party; Thursday I go to Back Street; Friday and Saturday are pretty much filled with wine,
women, and song. Well, not quite. Perhaps beer, boys, and burps would be more accurate. The reason for my sour
mood is that now I have to finally face the fact that my life is almost over. I now have
to go into the cold world that I’m nowhere near prepared to deal with. I have nothing to put on
a resume. I can’t get into graduate school. I would fail a course on purpose if this place didn’t cost
so much just so I could put graduation off for another semester.

“Look, Nathan. We’re reading you for a laugh. If we wanted to read about gloom and doom and the horrors
found everywhere in life we’d be reading Rosie’s column. Start being witty.”

OK, I’ll do my best. I feel like a character in The Sun Also Rises, but I don’t have any
money, and I can’t speak a word of Spanish.

“You're doing a little better. Keep it up. I don’t want to rely on ‘The Family Circus’ for my daily
laugh. Talk about beer. You usually can come up with something good. How is your exercise going? Talk about that.”

A scientific report came out the other month showing that beer inhibits your creativity. Jackson Pollock, Peter O’Toole and I
would have to disagree with that one. All I can...think about this week is my future, and who wants to
read about that? I couldn’t even think of an original title for this article. I had to steal one from
a movie. My exercising is going strong. I’ve been at it for three or four weeks now, and I look,
well, I look pretty much the same. But that’s beside the point. I love the weight room. It’s one of
the best places in the world where people expose themselves for what they really are. Most of the men walk
around pretending they’re incredibly strong and that they’ve been lifting weights since they were five years old. There are mirrors
set up along

See Crybaby on page 8

Stephen Faller

On taking a cane

I feel as though I have become the answer to the great Theban riddle of the sphinx. I have recently
taken up my cane and walked, much of which I owe to the encouragement of a good friend. On the
whole, it has been a good experience, but more importantly, it has been an experience. There is a novelty to
it all, I must confess. It is almost adolescent and boyish: the delight in walking with a cane for the
first time. It is like acquiring a new set of ears to hear by, and you constantly find yourself testing
the limits of the thing. And it is not long before you’re snaring people with the hook end or trying
to twirl it like a baton, perhaps as a way to show off or impress someone. As if cane proficiency
was a high and holy skill!

It takes a strange perspective to walk somewhere these days. I find myself in eternal need of reminding myself that
there is a qualitative implication of old Ralph’s self-reliance. There is a very real difference between applying oneself so directly
to life that you are deliberately savoring each moment passionately and not applying much to anything except getting as much
done as possible. Except that the ability to walk can become as much of a curse as it is a
blessing. So soon, one bitterly becomes resentful of each step, just wishing for the whole enterprise to come to an
end. But the trees! The trees! And the flowers!

The question of dignity is a nebulous one. It might seem that I am merely uncomfortable with my role as
a hyphenated person. Hyphenated people are not new, only in my case it becomes something like: wheelchair-student, or disabled-person, or
some other such mauling of what it means to be human. The role of the hyphenated person is always, necessarily
so, a qualification of the human experience. In all cases I can think of, especially mine, the qualification is a
hobbling one, socially and otherwise. I believe it means something to walk. There is poetry in it. And if the
gait is prompt, assertive, sexy, or even three-legged, there is still dignity in it. It may be a false dignity,
foolish and vain. Is there a frivolity in uprightness? It might be that walking is dignified because it lifts us
above the earth, if

See Amble on page 9

senior class? I sure don’t. In addition, Mr. Barron thinks it is also okay to fire someone for discriminatory reasons
because, after all, why would you want to work for someone who didn’t like you? Well, I see we’re back
to square one. Wake up. These days, people take what they can get. The bulk of this country’s population is
out there just trying to survive. The eighties are over. No more yachts and BMWs and Evian-on-tap. I’m not saying
the whole country is broke, but I am saying that those with the means are becoming fewer and fewer as
the years go by. These days, it’s enough for most people to be able to make rent and put food
on the table. I don’t want everyone whose

See Evian on page 9

Gull's Nest: Bill Gullan

Chalk one up for Davidson.

“They have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith.” (II Timothy 4:7)

The faith was kept in the lounges of residence halls, in off-campus living rooms, in the seats in Asheville, and
everywhere else a Davidson fan might have been last Sunday night. Squabbles about politics, tax forms, Christianity, and callousness were
put aside as the Davidson world screeched to a halt and just watched. What did we all see? A group
of men, banded together in pursuit of a goal, proving themselves to be a success on the basketball court and
in the game of life. Was Quinn fouled in the act of shooting? Did those final two seconds slip away
after the whistle? Where will the Wildcats be next Sunday? Is Chad Copeland the next Rogaine poster boy? Regardless of
the answers to these questions, the Davidson Wildcats were winners Sunday night. They played great basketball, displayed commendable sportsmanship, and
represented themselves and this institution extraordinarily well. The ESPN announcers knew nothing about our school. There was no mention of
our small size. There was no mention of our high academic standards and commitment to honor. The only way an
uninitiated viewer might learn about Davidson College—our mission and our essence—was by watching our basketball team. And no glossy Admissions
Office brochure could have possibly captured the spirit, hopes, and dreams of Davidson better than that group of twelve men.

I remember the 1982-83 NCAA final where Georgetown lost a tragic game to Chapel Hill. Point guard Fred Brown inadvertently
threw the ball to the wrong

See NCAA on page 8
