50 YEARS OLD The Davidsonian By Alex Crumbley

These early years of The Davidsonian stand at the midpoint of Davidson’s life so far. Eighty years ago, and 77
years after the founding of Davidson, a group of 11 men led by Francis William Price, the first editor-in-chief, had
their motion to establish a weekly newspaper approved by a vote of the student body. Thankfully, the staff elected to
name the paper The Davidsonian rather than the Haka-Raka, as one student suggested.

War and fire

The first years of The Davidsonian were exciting years in the history of the United States and of Davidson. Woodrow
Wilson, a former Davidson student, occupied the Oval Office for most of this decade and led his country to a
successful campaign in World War I. The old Chambers building burned in November of 1921, and in 1923 the college
began building new Chambers, which, at the time, was called “The most modern college building in the South.” Watts dormitory
burned on a March night in 1923, and neighboring Rumple dorm was narrowly saved from also going aflame by student
efforts to hold the Watts fire at bay.

The paper reflects the stern attitudes of wartime—little humor found its way onto its pages (which some would say is
still true), and students were always referred to by initials and last name. Only 308 students attended the college in
1915, and the town was so close-knit that information such as “Miss Alice McCullas, of Raleigh, is visiting here for
a few days as the guest of Miss Ann Payne,” was considered newsworthy.

World War I

Davidson definitely did its share to help with the war effort. After the U.S. entered the war in April 1916,
156 students and 576 alumni enlisted in the armed forces, and of these, 21 died and 366 became commissioned officers.
Many others spent their time working on supply production farms in the area. Davidson began officer training on campus, and
Watts, Rumple, and Georgia dorms served as barracks for student soldiers.

We do love our basketball

But other aspects of campus life weren’t so different from now. Basketball was always an event at Davidson, even in
1918, in the midst of World War I. A front-page write-up of an intramural game, called “the best basketball game
of the season,” described Company C defeating Company B in a thrilling one-point victory. By our standards, though, it probably
wasn’t so thrilling. It seems that both teams could have used some work on shooting, as the final score was
12 to 11.

When were the good old days?

Student concerns don’t seem to have changed much, either. When we think of the good old days, we conjure up
images of simple times, with none of the competitiveness of today’s post-college world. But the beginning of an editorial...

BULLETIN

* (Type) Davidson College HAS BEGUN Military TRAINING

Kaiser: Mein Gott! I’m Ruined: Editorial cartoon from the October 17, 1917 issue of The Davidsonian. Davidson sent 732 men
to WWI; 21 died.In a 1915 issue of The Davidsonian, it suggests that the college senior 80 years ago had
the same complaint. “According to the statistics gathered by The Davidsonian last fall, 158 of the students enrolled at Davidson
have decided what calling or profession they expect to enter. The remaining 150 have either not decided or are delaying
a definite decision. When none of the professions were crowded and a man of ordinarily good education could be successful
in most any one, the question of a young man’s life work was not as perplexing as it is today.
Every modern field of work is calling for only the best. This increases the importance of carefully weighing the opportunities
of the various callings and their different demands upon the powers and talents that a man may possess.” For all
the changes our school has seen in 80 years, one thing has stayed the same—we have no idea what to
do when we leave.

We still debate about the brevity of Woodrow Wilson’s Davidson career. Did he not like our school? Did he flunk
out? Why did he go to Princeton after his freshman year here? The first issue of The Davidsonian contained an
article which addressed these questions and offered the following explanation. Describing a meeting between the President and Davidson’s President Martin,
the editor noted, “He (Wilson) also expressed regret that ill health had compelled his withdrawal from Davidson at the end
of his freshman year. This is a clear explanation of the facts connected with his leaving, which is a matter
that has not been fully understood by everyone before.”

The paper was always very supportive of Wilson, considering him one of our own, and dedicated an issue to him
in 1921, when much of the country turned on him and his idea for the League of Nations. The front
page stated simply, “We are proud of you, Mr. Wilson.” Whatever the conditions of his premature departure, Davidson students felt
a special kinship with President Wilson. An editorial from December 9, 1914, said it best: “Davidson men are proud that
their college could with but one year’s training place in the Presidential chair one who has left such a worthy
record behind him.”

RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS PREREQUISITE: ADRENALINE

Drive. Intensity. Those aren't words you're likely to see in many course requirements. Then again, Army ROTC is unlike any
other elective. It's hands-on excitement. ROTC will challenge you mentally and physically through intense leadership training. Training that builds character,
self-confidence, and decision-making skills. Again, words other courses seldom use. But they're the credits you need to succeed in life.
ROTC is open to freshmen and sophomores without obligation and requires about 4 hours per week. Register this term for
Army ROTC.

Paperbacks All Hardbacks Reduced

NOW OPEN SMOIMDAVES I-77 Exit 25 at Sam Furr Road at Northcross (Next to Food Lion) 892-1030

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE.

MIL 101 - The U.S. Army Today "Introduction to Leadership"

***4 Sections Offered***

MIL 101-A, Wednesday 0930 - 1020
MIL 101-B, Wednesday 1300 - 1350
MIL 101-C, Thursday 1300 - 1350
MIL 101-D, Thursday 1430 - 1520

For more information: Call 892-2165 or stop by the Department of Military Studies in Belk Hall.
