2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1994

Faculty resists $12,000 student course book

By Christy Block

Sophomore Jamie McConnell has decided Davidson could learn something about the art of course evaluations. His inspiration is the “Harvard University Course Guide,” which is published each year by the school and distributed to every student free of charge. Its aim is to help students choose their classes by providing information about format, reading, number of tests, as well as the quality of text, work, and professor ratings.

McConnell believes so strongly in this tool for students that he has taken the initiative to make it happen. Dean Williams and the Education Policy Group both met with McConnell and recommended he go about the project on his own, due to faculty resistance. The SGA, after hearing the idea, granted him a charter.

McConnell's proposed book depends on student input. Over winter break, McConnell printed $200 worth of revised “Course Evaluation Forms” which he distributed to the various fraternity houses as a first step. Unfortunately, the fraternities did not respond to the forms he sent.

The Activities Tax Council (ATC), when approached for funding, referred McConnell to the Media Board which refused to support his proposed budget of $12,000 (an estimate given by two publishing companies). McConnell says that $12,000 would be necessary “to produce exactly what I have in mind...the ideal, but the cost can certainly be negotiated.” His two great obstacles, “money and getting people to fill out the forms,” are what prevent him from accepting the idea of selling the books. “Without the initial interest, nothing will be published, much less bought,” reasons McConnell.

McConnell is considering doing something on a smaller scale this year to get the project rolling. Kurt Holmes, Assistant Director of Residence Life, suggests that the evaluation forms and books be distributed by RAs. McConnell agrees. McConnell, along with B.J. Rudell and a few other helping hands, plans to publish something by July for the incoming freshman class and to distribute a smaller scale version of the book to upperclass students. “Evaluation forms need to be filled out before any information can be compiled to go in the book,” says McConnell. “The project really lives or dies with the students.”

Dr. Allison Jaggar with Dr. Rosemarie Tong

By Amy Laukkanen

Feminist Allison Jaggar speaks

Philosopher promotes feminist practical discourse

By Court McBryde

Feminist Allison Jaggar related the importance of personalized discursive practice to a crowd of students and faculty in Phi Hall on Wednesday, January 9. Jaggar, a professor of Philosophy and Women’s Studies at the University of Colorado at Boulder, lectured on “Toward a Feminist Conception of Moral Reasoning.”

Internationally known, Jaggar received her honors BA in Philosophy from the University of London, her Masters from the University of Edinburgh, and her Ph.D. from the University of Buffalo. She has many honors and awards to her name including the work, Feminist Politics and Human Nature, which Davidson classes use as a textbook. Jaggar is presently working on another book entitled Feminist Practical Dialogue: A Theory of Moral Objectivity. The purpose of this new book is to develop a model of moral justification. She read excerpts from this text and explained the theories it incorporated.

In the context of her speech, she used a feminist anti-militarism group as a model of moral reasoning and an account of consensus in decision-making. Through this example, Jaggar showedThe importance of cultivating certain moral attitudes and how and when these values should be adapted. Reading from a section in her book, Jaggar expressed the value of hearing and seeing as entities, Feminist Practical Discourse (FPD), or unstructured interaction. “(FPD) exists as a form of moral discussion which involves not just the right to speak, but the responsibility to assure others good listening and for their contributions to be heard,” Jaggar explained. Jaggar commented that FPD is “a doable and valuable model through which we figure out what we are morally forbidden to do and what we can do.” The senior seminar in philosophy, which has been studying her works, sponsored the lecture with the help of the Medical Humanities Program and the Committee for Women’s Issues.

A tour of prospectives enjoys the weather. The 70-degree temperatures and sunny skies led students to believe that summer would arrive early this year. Little did they know that the next day would bring an ice storm. Photo by Tony Wagner.

Academic Affairs talks about calendar
By Martha Knight

Will Christmas vacation begin earlier in years to come? Is there any way to avoid the endless wait of drop/add? The Student Council on Academic Affairs addressed these issues at its first meeting of the semester on Tuesday, February 8. Members discussed their concerns about the late date of fall semester exams. Since the administration prepares the calendar several years in advance, these dates have already been determined for the next two years. However, the council hopes to work with the faculty to establish some guidelines for future calendar planning.

The council also reviewed standards for recognition of Cum Laude graduates. Currently, students are required to have a 3.5 grade point average in order to receive this honor. After the implementation of the new grading scale a few years ago, students now earn fewer points for minus grades. The council feels that slightly lowered requirements would compensate for these changes.

Several council members attended a meeting with Registrar Polly Griffin to discuss class registration. The lengthy process of preparing student schedules and long drop/add lines at the start of each semester have prompted the need for an updated registration system which involves new computer software. Griffin will address the entire council at a future meeting to share her ideas and finalize plans.

The Council on Academic Affairs is an SGA-appointed committee which meets on Tuesday nights at 10:00 in the Conference Room of the Union. Chairperson Jennifer Humphrey would like to encourage interested students to join them. She says that they are “open to anyone who has a question or concern about an academic policy or issue.”

If You Missed the Cooking at BACON AND EGGS
Come See the Old Gang at...
Chat & Chew
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, NC
664-4665
Open Monday-Sunday 5:00 am to 11:00 pm

WELCOME DAVIDSON COLLEGE!

Davidson College Students
EVERY NIGHT IS COLLEGE NIGHT AT FORD'S SEAFOOD, BBQ, & CATERING
• Bring in your student I.D. & get $1.50 off any entree
• Enjoy a really delicious meal at a really great price. Our fast, friendly service & atmosphere make dinner an enjoyable break! Don't forget to save room for our homemade banana pudding, voted "Best Dessert" by Lake Norman Magazine.
• Conveniently located just minutes away from Davidson College
• Must present I.D. to validate offer

Hours: Tues-Sat 5:00-9:00 pm
Lunch: Fri 11:30-2:00 pm
Highway 21 South
Cornelius, NC 892-3362