THE DAVIDSONIAN

SGA President to be elected one week earlier

By Jay Jennings

In a move to help ease the transition for newly-elected SGA presidents, the SGA changed the date of the elections in the spring semester. The elections were previously held on the fourth Monday of the spring semester and will now be held on the third Monday.

A problem existed with the old date because the president did not have time to get established and sworn in before the Board of Trustees meeting. Thus, the former SGA president normally went to the first trustee meeting of the spring semester, and the new president did not have time to get acquainted with the board. With the new date, SGA presidents will have a chance to begin their relationship with the trustees before the April trustee meetings.

The new date also means that the filing deadline for the elections will be the second Thursday of the spring semester instead of the third Thursday. Thus, students should contemplate elections over the holidays because the deadline comes so soon after the start of the spring semester.

NEWS

AUTOGRAPHS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1994

Missy Potts and Amie Shumacher have books signed by Dr. Ruth Westheimer. Photo courtesy of College Relations

Must college president be Presbyterian? Debate continues at student/faculty dinner

By Matthew Eirich

Sixteen students and seven faculty and administrators gathered Tuesday night in the Vail Commons conference room to discuss whether the president of Davidson College must be a Presbyterian or be willing to become one in order to hold the office. More specifically, the group discussed the by-law in the Davidson College constitution which states that the president must be “a loyal and active churchman, giving evidence by his life of the strength of his Christian faith and commitment. Such faith and commitment will be appropriately expressed by his affiliation with the Presbyterian Church in the United States, and his active participation in the life of the College Church.”

After dinner, the group was addressed by the moderator, who handed out two pages. The first contained the by-law requiring that the president be Presbyterian; the second page was of two articles printed in The Davidsonian dealing with the topic under discussion.

The first speaker saw the debate as “whether the president should have to be Presbyterian, not if he can be.” This point was not contested, and other issues were brought to the floor.

One of the issues of concern was how the current presidential requirements hinder the diversification of Davidson. According to one participant, there are 1.5 million Presbyterians in the United States, 20,000 of whom hold doctoral degrees. Additionally, only 0.6% of Presbyterians are African-American, and an even smaller percentage will go on to receive Ph.D.s. The question was asked: “What are the odds of an African-American ever being president of Davidson given the current by-laws?”

The second issue was tradition. Some feared that to change the by-laws would change the character of the school, which they saw as shaped by its religious

See Debate continued on page 4

DavidsonReactions mixed to Westheimer's lecture

Ruth continued from page 1

The commissioning of Dr. Westheimer in conjunction with several other campus groups, such as SHOC. The Women’s Issues Committee was disappointed when Dr. Ruth canceled her planned personal appearance at their post-lecture discussion group, but had a good hour and a half discussion anyway, said Orsbon. They discussed points made by Dr. Ruth that were the most meaningful to them, such as the emphasis on the female sexual experience.

It seems that just about everyone was able to glean some personal meaning from Dr. Ruth’s chat. A senior says, “I thought Dr. Westheimer’s visit was just what this campus needed. I don’t think the majority of students here are entirely comfortable with the subject of sex, and it is this bringing of such touchy issues into the open that will allow Davidson to mature as an environment for healthy relationships.”

NCSL much more than just dressing up

By Randy Hartwell

At Davidson, where “real-world experience” often seems tough to come by, the North Carolina Student Legislature gets about as close as you can get. Modeled on the actual North Carolina State Legislature, with a House of Representatives and a Senate, the NCSL is run completely by students from 15 public and private colleges and universities across the state. Once a month, meetings called “interim councils” take place at host colleges, where participants debate current issues and form resolutions. These meetings then culminate in annual sessions in which bills are passed for submission to the real state legislature.

Davidson delegate Stephen Feely says, “It is role playing, but it’s taken very seriously ... it’s like watching C-Span, but much more exciting.” The NCSL has recently debated such controversial topics as physician-assisted suicide, domestic violence, and the forcing of welfare mothers to get Norplant, a semi-permanent form of birth control. They have even “legalized” gay marriage and adoption.

Senior Anni Kirkland, who was elected Speaker of the House in October, says that the views debated cover every part of the political spectrum. “That’s one of the best things about it,” she adds. “There are all kinds of ideas, but they’re never judged unfairly.” Feely agrees: “Debates are heated, but everyone’s still polite.”

The next interim council will take place at ASU November 18 through 20, and the 58th Annual Legislative Session will be in Raleigh in March of next year.

Do you have a lot of school spirit?

The Crazy Cats Club is looking for Davidson students who want to support the men's basketball team at home and away games. For information for those interested, call Joe Beach at -6627 or Jason Burt at -6827, or turn the pages to see the amazing article in the Arts & Living section.

THURSDAY NIGHTS:
- 2 FOR 1 APPETIZERS TIL MIDNIGHT
- $3 FOR 32 OZ. MUG OF DRAFT BEER
- $3.50 FOR SPECIALTY MULTI-LIQUOR DRINKS

FEATURING....
BILL HANNA AND FRIENDS JAZZ REVIEW
- 4-5 Piece Jazz Band
- Previously Seen at Amos' Bar and Grill in Charlotte--A BIG HIT!
- Look for their monthly calendar of appearances in next week's edition!