THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 11, 1994

Hundreds gathered to eat barbeque and to listen to friends of Dean Terry at his party last night on the
Chambers front lawn. Photo by Amy Laukkenan

Panel to examine media's role in society
Courtesy of College Relations

This Friday, education and media leaders from North Carolina and across the country will take part in two different panel
discussions on the role of the media in modern society. Part of the program of the 38th annual meeting of
Davidson’s Board of Visitors, the discussions will be open to interested members of the student body, faculty, and staff. They
will be held in the Multipurpose Room of Chambers on April 15.

During the first panel discussion, “The Media and Children,” panelists will discuss the role of the media as educator, entertainer,
and vendor, specifically in its impact on three different age groups: preschoolers, elementary school students, and teenagers. The panel will
run from 11 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.

Court houses disregard sanitation regulations
Court continued from page 1

Under the category of "hand dishwashing facilities," the law mandates “an approved three-compartment sink of sufficient size and depth to
submerge, wash, rinse and sanitize utensils and shall have splash back protection and drain boards that are an integral part
of a continuous unit with the sink.” These drain boards must be of sufficient size to accommodate the drying of
all the washed eating utensils.

This scenario is not a reality at the houses on Patterson Court. While their sinks are of sufficient size and
depth to perform the necessary dishwashing functions, some sinks have only two basins instead of the required three. In addition,
most of the houses, including Kappa Sigma and Connor House, do not even have drain boards or their equivalents on
which to dry washed dishes. Kappa Alpha and Pi Kappa Alpha have drying racks, but they are not nearly large
enough to handle all of the dishes and utensils used in a single meal.

The actual washing of the plates, cups, and silverware must, according to Section 2619 of the Statute, include sanitizing after
cleaning and rinsing. They must either be immersed “for at least

Test taking
Prep continued from page 3

ling to what you really need to know.” She points to the books that Kaplan gives its students as the
most beneficial part of the course. Suter believes that no real difference exists between the two: “They both have a
lot to offer. You get out of it what you put into it.”

The Law Suit
Recently, the two companies have locked horns over an ad that Kaplan placed in U.S. News & World Report. The
Kaplan ad claims that a free refresher course will be offered to any student whose scores do not improve by
an established amount after taking the Kaplan course. Princeton Review sees this declaration as a direct violation of the agreement
that the two companies made in 1993 stating that neither would report score improvements without substantial verification.

Kaplan defends its claims with documentation from a major accounting firm and says Princeton Review's accusations are misdirected. Melissa Mack,
public relations director for Princeton Review, says that the data published is difficult for the consumer to interpret and can
be easily misunderstood.

Should you even take a course?
As lawyers argue over logistics and fine print, students just want advice on the best path to take. Carol Jordan,
director of Career Services at Davidson, does not see a need for all students to spend money on intense preparatory
courses like Kaplan and Princeton Review. According to Jordan, Davidson students who have a good GPA, who do not have
high test-taking anxiety, and who scored fairly well on the SATshould be able to prepare for graduate entrance exams with
a store-bought study guide. Jordan recommends prep courses only for those students who do not have a strong GPA or
who are not confident test takers. She recommends both Kaplan and Princeton Review but also suggests that students look into
shorter, less expensive courses offered at most colleges. Jordan hopes that all juniors are beginning to think about entrance exams
because the best time to take them is the summer before the senior year. Her advice to those who want
to take a prep course before the exam is: “Be wary of high prices, for these are all competitive businesses.
Try to come up with many options.”

"one minute in clean hot water at a temperature of at least 170° F” or held “for at least two
minutes in a chemical bactericide of a strength approved by the Department.” None of these sanitizing measures are practiced by
the dishwashers at the eating houses. Even when steps are taken to sanitize plates and utensils, such as Connor’s adding
of chlorine tablets to the rinse water or Pi Kappa Alpha’s final dipping of washed dishes into clean water, they
are not stringent enough to comply with the law’s requirements. General Statute 130A-249 also contains guidelines regarding the kitchen floors
and counters. Only Rusk and Sigma Phi Epsilon had floors and counters that were both visibly clean and dirt-free to
the touch. Most of the counters were fairly clean, but the majority of the floors were not sanitary enough to
pass an inspection based on these regulations. At Kappa Sigma, for example, there was food encrusted on the stove top,
and the floor was so dirty that students walking from the kitchen to the dining room noticeably tracked dirt on
the floor.

Photo by Amy Laukkenan

The Rusk kitchen, the only house that passed the sanitation guidelines, is kept cleaner than the rest.

* STEAKS
* SWORDFISH
* GRILLED CHICKEN
* BURGERS
* SPECIALTY SANDWICHES

Panelists for the first discussion include Ann Clark ’80, the 1994 National Principal of the Year; Jack Claiborne, vice-president of
Park Communications, Inc., which publishes small newspapers throughout the nation, including The Mecklenburg Gazette; Ervin Duggan ’61, the recently appointed
president of the Public Broadcasting System (PBS); art professor Herb Jackson; and psychology professor Ed Palmer, who has received national
acclaim for his research on the impact of television on children. Lester Strong ’72, evening news anchor with WHDH-TV in
Boston, will moderate the discussion.

The second discussion begins at 5:00 p.m. and will focus on the responsibility of the media in modern society. Jennie
Buckner, editor of The Charlotte Observer, will join Strong, Claiborne, and Duggan on the panel of this discussion. Davidson’s own
Jack Perry of the Dean Rusk Program will moderate this second session.

The Board of Visitors is not a part of the governance system of the college, but it enables Davidson to
develop ties outside the normal circle of alumni and current student families. An annual meeting at the college acquaints members
with what is going on at Davidson and in higher education in general. This year, the general topic for the
meeting will be “Set free the inquiring mind, the expressive spirit!”

The Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St. Suite 116
Cornelius, NC. 28031
(704) 892-7030
MONDAY - SATURDAY

THE RAFTERS RESTAURANT
663-7322
761 NORTH MAIN STREET
FAMILY OWNED & OPERATED BY RICK BRYANT & CINDY BOOKER

ALL OUR FOOD IS AS FRESH AS IS POSSIBLE TO OBTAIN. WE'RE KEEPING “REAL FOOD” ALIVE IN MOORESVILLE
* ALL MENU ITEMS HOMEMADE INCLUDING DESSERTS
* BEER & WINE
SERVING LUNCH MONDAY-FRIDAY 11:00 A.M.-2:00 P.M.
* ORDERS TO-GO
* DAILY LUNCH SPECIALS
SERVING DINNER FRIDAY-SATURDAY 5:00 P.M.-10:00 P.M.
COME JOIN THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RAFTERS

MOORESVILLE

THE RAFTERS RESTAURANT THANKS THEIR CUSTOMERS & HOPES TO SERVE YOU SOON!
