| Che Bavidsoni "THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY" VOLUME LXXXV MONDAY, APRIL 18, 1994 NUMBER 24

Baker donates $5 million
Largest gift by single person to fund scholarships

~ Photo by Aniy Laukkanen
Dr. John Kuykendall announced Baker's donation Friday.

By Jay Jennings

News of a surprise college announcement brought the Davidson community to Love Auditorium Friday afternoon. President Kuykendall announced Thompson S. Baker’s $5 million gift in a ceremony complete with a giant banner and a festive rendition of Davidson’s alma mater. The contribution by Baker, class of ‘26, is the largest gift by an individual in Davidson’s history. The money will be used to fund merit scholarships, which, according to Dean of Admissions Nancy Cable Wells, will “provide the opportunity to bring the best of the best from across the country to Davidson.” Kuykendall, who was “overwhelmed” by this extremely generous gift, says that the donation will “ensure the success of future Davidsonians.”

The Baker name is already closely connected with Davidson, as his previous donation helped create Baker Sports Complex. Unfortunately, Mr. Baker was unable to attend the dedication of the sports complex due to an injury. Friday’s ceremony in his honor was, thus, doubly important to him. In his remarks, Baker quipped, “Every time I come to Davidson, I break something. The last time I came it was my hip; this time it was my pocketbook.”

At the ceremony, Kuykendall read an excerpt from the 1926 edition of Quips and Cranks which described “Brassy Baker” and predicted his future impact on Davidson College. Baker, who played football while at Davidson, was honored when the senior football players presented him with a Wildcat football helmet and made him an honorary member of their team. The announcement was made in conjunction with the annual Board of Visitors meeting. Baker joined the Board of Visitors in 1966. He was subsequently re-elected so often that he was made a lifetime member in 1981.

Baker’s gift pushes the Campaign for Davidson one step closer to its $150 million goal, raising the amount of donations for scholarships from $29 million to $34 million.

Support athletics or risk Division I status, AD says
By Mandy Curtis

“If our basketball program cannot help generate revenue for itself and our other programs, then we need to make plans to move to another divisional level within the NCAA,” wrote Athletic Director Terry Holland in an April 3 letter to alumni asking for their support and commitment. Without a season ticket base of 2,000 supporters, Division I athletics at Davidson cannot continue. From the time of Holland’s arrival four years ago, the Department of Athletics has tried to reach that base support. Even after much promotion, however, only 163 Davidson alumni bought 353 season tickets this year. In the letter addressed to nearby residing alumni, Holland explains the severity of the situation that could reverse Davidson’s

Davidson wrecks #1 ranked Georgia Tech
By Will Cobb

For the second time in four years, the Davidson baseball team traveled to face the number one team in the country, and walked away a giant killer, 6-4. The game of baseball will always remain mysterious with the capability of any team defeating another. During Spring Break of 1990, the Wildcats traveled to face the number one Miami Hurricanes, winning 3-2. The dayBefore last Wednesday’s game, Davidson suffered an embarrassing loss to UNC-Greensboro, 13-3, and Georgia Tech racked up 28 runs in a rout over Georgia State. Facing a team averaging over 10 runs a game, the Wildcats had their hands full, but sophomore pitcher Chris Pollard kept control. Davidson used good team defense combined with good situational hitting to pull off the upset. Pollard went 8.1 innings, scattering 11 hits and giving up just 3 earned runs to improve his record to 3-5 on the season. 

“Pollard did a great job of holding runners and shutting down their team speed. He always seemed in control,” said head coach Dick Cooke. A big emotional boost for the Wildcats came in the third inning. Following a double by Tech’s Garciaparra, the next batter grounded to Pollard, who threw to Clay Hall at first, who then threw to Chad Blackwelder at third for a double play.

See Cats on page 14

Athletic Program

Already, $2.5 million of the $3 million athletic budget comes from the college’s annual budget. Because that amount will not change, the programs need to raise money from outside sources. Traditionally, schools with Division I athletics make up the difference in funding through ticket sales. Holland explained that usually Division I athletics flourish because of fans beyond the immediate college community. Division III programs, on the other hand, do not tend to produce revenue. Describing Davidson as a “hybrid,” Holland said we are a combination of the two: a college with Division I programs and no revenue. The Athletic Department hopes to elicit an honest answer.

See Div. 1 on page 14

SPRING FROLICS

Photo by Amy Laukkanen

The spring celebration included a human gyroscope on Friday afternoon. See story on page 2.

Trustees to vote on Statement of Purpose

By Court McBryde

The Statement of Purpose and Trustee by-laws stand as pressing issues which the Board of Trustees must address at their meeting this week.

Statement of Purpose

In the fall of 1992, Chairman Craig Wall appointed a committee to reevaluate the Statement of Purpose. Both students and faculty suggested the re-examination. The committee concentrated on making the Statement more inclusive, more reflective of the college’s reality, and closer to the way Davidson wants to be viewed. The committee then proposed a revision. Copies of the revised version were submitted to the full Board and campus community. The Board of Trustees will make their final vote this week. President Kuykendall says that the Board, if necessary, can propose further revisions to the Statement.

Trustee By-Laws

At the February meeting of the Board of Trustees, former SGA president Alden Smith proposed a reexamination of the qualifications for serving on the Board of Trustees. Currently, a trustee must be an active member of a Christian church. Allison Sabel, SGA Vice-President, said that the Board tabled the issue.

See SOP on page 2

INSIDE THIS WEEK

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

Homosexuality

Students, faculty, and alums give personal accounts about their experiences with sexual orientation at Davidson.

NEWS 4

Just do it

"College is about experience... all about expanding horizons and exploring frontiers," says Ken May.

OPINIONS 8

#1 Workload

Davidson students are known to complain (and brag) about their workload, but is it really so bad?

ARTS 10

Soccer Capitol

World Cup exhibition game on Wednesday

SPORTS 13