Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS . MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1994

Davidson takes pride in affordability despite costly tuition

Merit scholarships and financial aid packages keep school competitive

By Beth Bacon

In light of the recent announcement of the John M. Belk Scholarship and the U.S. News & World Report ranking
of best college buys (Davidson ranked 5th in price and 12th in discounts), many students wonder exactly what merit scholarships
are available to Davidson students and how many students receive them. Investigative reporter Beth Bacon probes the admissions office to
find out.

Davidson College prides itself on being “affordable to the best students despite the high tuition,” says Dean of Admission and
Financial Aid Nancy Cable Wells. This is made possible through such scholarships as the Belk Scholarship, the Cornwell Prize in
Writing, the First Union Gift in Education, the Will Terry Prize for Leadership, and the Baker Scholarship, to name a
few.

In the last five years, 35 million dollars have been raised in the campaign for Davidson in order to help
keep the school affordable. “Davidson must remain accessible to the best and the brightest regardless of their material resources,” writes
President John Kuykendall in the introductory letter of a book describing the scholarships.

“Adequate financial aid is essential to make the class we want to make,” says Cable Wells. Approximately 15 to 20
percent of each freshman class—60 to 80 students—receives some sort of merit-based scholarship. There are 500 scholarships in existence at
Davidson. Two of them, the Baker and Belk Scholarships, pay for full tuition, room, and board. The Will Terry Prize
for Leadership is a $15,000 scholarship which is awarded to two freshmen.

The John Belk Scholarship is in the process of being developed. It is a “good, non-need-based scholarship to draw the
very best to a class.” The scholarship will be awarded to students who display strong academic, athletic, and leadership performances.
This endowed scholarship will make the scholarship program at Davidson, “hopefully one of the most distinguished ... in the southeast,”
says Cable Wells.

The Office of Admissions uses a need-blind approach to admission. This means that the decision of whether or not a
student is accepted at Davidson does not depend on whether or not they can afford the tuition.

Accelerated Learning Program provides practical study skills

By Mary Laura Moretz

Procrastinating Davidson students can no longer use the excuse, “But I just can’t study.” The Accelerated Learning Program aims to
make sure students of all disciplines know the best ways to utilize their study time.

Assistant to the Vice-President for Academic Affairs Marcia Beck organizes the different seminars each semester. She says that “it’s important
that people know this is not a remedial program. At Davidson, people are professional students, and like any professionals they
need seminars on how to keep up.”

The program includes a few workshops each semester, focusing on specific study skills in different areas. Junior Lillian Montgomery attended
sessions about studying math and sciences this semester.

---Semester and says, “It’s really helpful just to review the skills for studying different types of things.”

SGA Voting Poll Moved to Commons
By Courtauld McBryde

A low student voter turnout during various elections prompted the SGA to change the current voting procedures. The voting station
located in the Union will be relocated to Vail Commons. Previously, students voted in Chambers and in the Union from
9 a.m. until 5 p.m. Due to the low voting percentage, SGA passed this proposal in an effort to increase
student participation.

The SGA by-laws concerning voting procedures will now read: “All elections of the SGA are to be secret written ballot
at the polling place located in Chambers from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and at the Vail Commons during dining
hours, which are 7:30 a.m. to 10 a.m., and 11 a.m. to 1:45 p.m. Elections occur on the day specified,
with run-offs held on the following days.”

SGA President Eric Beck explains that the program is “Davidson-specific,” meaning that the techniques discussed are targeted directly toward the
Davidson community and lifestyles. Davidson faculty, staff, and students give all the presentations. Patterson Court has begun to co-sponsor the
workshops as well. Lexy DeVane of Warner Hall, who helped coordinate a recent seminar, says “it’s a good way for
the eating houses to get involved in the academic side of student life.”

Beck says she would like to see more students attend the workshops and hopes the topics for next semester attract
bigger crowds. Workshop topics for the winter and spring include improving writing skills, forming and using study groups within the
Honor Code, stress relief, and memorization and concentration.

Late Night at the Library
Student artists help us see our campus from different perspectives. Submit your artistic pictures to the photo editor of the
Davidsonian in the newspaper office on the top floor of the Union. Best submissions will be published in future issues.
Be a star.

Photo by Brooke McRae

Attention Seniors:
Your SGA Senators will be passing out caps and gowns this Thursday from 7-11:00 p.m., in the Chambers Gallery. You
must pick yours up, or else.

Records
Are you up to the hometown challenge?

1. What do REM and Big Head Todd have in common?
2. What do Smashing Pumpkins and Smashing Orange have in common?
3. What do Ween and Love and Rockets have in common?

Celebrations, exam time, or just for fun! Use your college crew of campus chums with an ice cream or frozen
yogurt cake for graduation, breaks, or celebrations.

Vermont’s Finest Ice Cream & Frozen Yogurt
507 Providence Rd. * 333-1003
The Arboretum * 543-8333
202 S. Main St. * Davidson * 892-0604

100s of New and Used CDs at Discount Prices
Lakeshore Market Place: 8946-7882

Rosenbach explained that the Commons poll should draw more students to vote than the Union poll. In the past, the
Union polls drew only small numbers of voters.
