THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1994

Independent representative didn't make ballot

By Randy Hartwell, Ashlyn Dannelly, and Russ Tarver

Voters in Wednesday’s Homecoming queen elections didn’t find an independent candidate among their choices. “We tried putting up nomination slips,” says head SGA independent senator Saad Gul, “but nobody really paid any attention.”

In an effort to at least get a name on the ballot, the senators chose Daniela Welsh. “But we didn’t get her name in on time to (Patterson Court Council president) Josh Worsham,” Gul says. A blank space appeared beside the word “Independent” on the ballot.

Welsh and other independents are furious. “I don’t want the independents to feel like they weren’t represented because their elected representatives weren’t organized,” says Welsh. “We made an effort.”

She explains that the independent representatives were justifiably unaware of their responsibilities towards Homecoming because they were elected only days before the candidates' names were to be turned in.

Worsham says, “I knew that there had to be an independent representative on the ballot, but the PCC was not in charge of choosing that individual. I did not receive the name of the independent representative in time to include her on the ballot. I assumed that it would be the independent senator’s responsibility to choose their representative, just as it is each house’s responsibility.”

Worsham continues, “I contacted Saad Gul and Jonathon Orr a week before the election and let them know we needed a representative.”

The PCC postponed the election from Monday to Wednesday in hopes of including an independent representative but still did not receive a name from the senators. Welsh says, “The message sent to freshmen Saturday was that unless you’re in a fraternity or eating house, then you’re not a part of the campus. People should reconsider the whole Homecoming queen tradition because judging from this episode, it is obvious the campus is treating it as a farce. We shouldn’t do something so half-heartedly.”

Phoebe Dean was crowned queen.

Photo by Brooke McRae

Queen continued from page 1

An English major from New Smyrna Beach, Florida, she represented the fraternity of Phi Delta Theta. First runner-up was Allison Woodward, representing Rusk, and Alexis Parramore, representing SAE, was second runner-up.

“The Rusk cocktail party was a success due to the food. Everyone was leaving their houses to come eat at Rusk,” alumna Josette Salazar says. Salazar also enjoyed herself on the court Saturday night because she could visit her friends at all the houses. “It was fun to do our court tours last night, especially as alumni. It reminded me of freshman year.”

The alumni made their presence known by the overwhelming number who participated in the festivities. Sophomore Jill Reger says, “I was surprised and pleased by the level of commitment and attachment demonstrated by the alumni for Davidson.”

Class of '94 enters "the real world": doctors, lawyers, & bankers

By Mary Laura Moretz

Davidson’s most recent alumni have spread to all ends of the earth. A recent survey by the Careers Office revealed some of the trends in first-year graduates' life.

Of the 227 members of the class of ‘94 who responded, just under a fourth of them now attend either graduate or professional schools. Of those, about half chose medical or law schools.

Jeffrey Hart, now a student at Duke University School of Law, feels Davidson prepared him “very, very well” for law school. “The research, writing, and arguing skills that you get from the liberal arts education are exactly what I’m using now.”

As far as lifestyle is concerned, Hart feels graduate school is “a happy medium” between college life and the working world. “It’s like a job, because I work all day, but the social life is similar to Davidson.”

Some graduates chose to go abroad to continue studying or begin teaching. They have relocated to places such as Malaysia, Greece, Germany, Spain, and Kenya. Seven members of ‘94 are currently teaching and learning in Japan. A few students even went abroad to play professional sports.

Other graduates decided to plunge into employment immediately. Davidson graduates are working in banks, schools, art museums, medical labs, and countless other types of businesses. Jennifer Beahm is now in the Consumer Management Associate Training Program at Nationsbank in Charlotte. She agrees with Hart that “Davidson exposes you to the writing, math, etc. that you need in the real world.” Mostly, Beahm says, “Davidson teaches you to learn.”

Beahm lives in an apartment by herself just outside of Charlotte and says, “It’s really strange getting up at 6:30 and working until 5:00. It’s totally different. I’m getting used to wearing high heels and a suit every day!”

Several alumni listed their current occupation as “taking time off.” For some, this means living at home for a few months or traveling before starting work. A few graduates have taken extra time to prepare for the next step in education.

Josh Larned “made that late decision to go Pre-med” as a history major at Davidson. He now lives in Athens, Georgia, where he takes classes to prepare for medical school in a couple of years. “I guess we’ve got plenty of time right now,” Larned says. “I’m thinking about getting a research job, but for now I’m just studying.”

Have a story idea? Call Ashlyn or Russ. -2148.

DONUTS

Mooresville
Next to Wilson Auto Parts

662-6122

HOURS: M-Sat: 6:00 am-5:00 pm

SANDWICHES & BISCUITS

- Social
- Semi Formal
- Formal

Lf, DaySo' Kemember,

$92. 5575

Magnolia Plaza — Hwy 73 — Across from Peninsula Club

-* 10% off with Davidson Coll. ID