THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1994

Brown By Linn Allison

Students and members of the Davidson community gathered together in the intimate environment of the 900 Room this past weekend
to enjoy the Theater Department’s latest production, You’re a Good Man Charlie Brown. A lighthearted, fun-filled musical, Charlie Brown was
directed by the Development Office’s very own Brad Griffin '93, who was recently named by Charlotte entertainment magazine, Creative Loafing,
as Best Newcomer in theater.

Although Griffin had his hands full serving not only as director but also as music director, the production included freshperson
Andrew Morris in the title role and choreographer Molly Johnson, who made sure Peppermint Patty (Laura Leibfreid) didn’t get too
out of control. Other cast members included Dex Davison (Snoopy), Katie McDaniel (Lucy), Chris Meadows (Linus), and Andrew Smitherman (Schroeder).

Audience members in each of the three performances got a kick out of the natural chemistry among the cast members
and we can all look forward to the next Theater Department production. Congratulations to the cast and crew of You’re
a Good Man, Charlie Brown.

Photo by Amy Laukkanen
Andrew Morris, Chris Meadows, Katie McDaniel, Laura Leibfreid, and Andrew Smitherman, of the cast from "You're a Good Man, Charlie
Brown," performed in the 900 room last Thursday evening to an audience of all children.

Small school dating

Sex continued from page 10

felt that Davidson’s high admission standards and excessive workload make socializing difficult. Another student pinned the problem on the campus’s
isolation. He argued that many students don’t have cars and the town doesn’t offer much entertainment. Still another panelist blamed
Patterson Court. She asked: “Why ask someone on a date when you know that you are going to bump into
them on the Court? Alcohol and loud music don’t facilitate good conversation. If you meet someone at a party on
the court, the relationship is doomed.”

After those questions, the forum opened up to the audience for discussion. Some of the panelists and many in the
audience attributed Davidson’s strange social scene to its small size. They argued that, because there are only about 1,500 students,
everyone knows everyone else’s business. A female panelist claimed that a date is interpreted by peers as an immediate serious
relationship: “There is no such thing as a get-to-know each other phase here. You are either hooking up or seriously
involved.” Another panelist said that people at Davidson are too concerned with what their friends think of them.

Mrs. Kimmel then asked: “But isn’t hooking up more gossip-worthy than going on a date?” Most panelists agreed that it
wasn't. Audience members were quick to offer various solutions to the dating problem. Dr. David Staton of the Student Counselling
Center suggested computer dates be set up for the entire campus at a band party. Audience members suggested that coed
dorms for freshmen would improve gender relations by facilitating brother-sister relationships. Others suggested that if all of the campus ate
together, dating situations would improve. Another person had the idea for a personals section in The Davidsonian.

The forum provided an open arena for speculation on Davidson’s dating scene and the participation was phenomenal. However, there were
so many different perspectives, the audience agreed it was nearly impossible to find the heart of the problem.

Guest speaker reveals prejudices of the Met Museum

continued from page 10

they offered nothing more than replications of rooms of the extremely wealthy. Duncan expressed that the rooms were not arranged
art historically or even chronologically, but instead presented a hodgepodge of what a particular sponsor owned in a replica of
the room in which the works were originally shown. Art works were often judged not upon their aesthetic value, but
for the “sole reason that someone owned them.” As a result, in Duncan’s opinion, the art historical significance was “overshadowed
by ownership.”

On some occasions, Duncan revealed that entire ballrooms and living rooms were reproduced to display a sponsor’s work. Duncan notes
that many museums simply “present socially privileged moments of the past...in the luxurious rooms of noblemen.” Duncan cited an incident
at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in which a Jewish member of the board was denied the seat of president
of the museum. After forminghis own private gallery, they were able to lure him back as a sponsor by making
him an honorary president—on one condition: a wing be established in his memory, a massive pyramid which Duncan felt is
“suggestive of an ancient tomb for some great pharaoh.” The interior of this ostentatious wing was to contain seven chambers,
a replication of the seven rooms in which the paintings were stored in his home.

Politics. Money. A Public Museum. According to Professor Shaw Smith, Duncan “reads museums as a production of class interest.” Duncan
did cite some attempts to accomplish what the museum expresses as its ultimate aim. She noted that industrialist J. P.
Morgan, while serving as president of the Met from 1907 through 1913, perceived how the museum could serve as a
“democratizing force.” The former owner of US Steel once said, “A man has two reasons for doing things: a good
one and a real one.” Duncan suggested he felt that museums were subscribing to that belief. Morgan thus envisioned “a
more civilized, moral, and peaceful museum,” which could be offered to the “self-improving” citizen. The Met thus began to be
arranged historically and could actually be used to educate. Alas, his ideals did not remain for long, as the elite
continued to “advance the cause of WASP supremacy.” The museum subsequently ceased to function as “civic ritual space,” but served
as “territories of prominent families.”

According to Professor Smith, Duncan presented a lecture which “encourages good questions.” After the lecture, inquired, “Well, aren’t we elitist?
Where do college students, professors with PhDs, and art critics fit in? What exactly would this egalitarian ritual space offer?
How would this be accomplished?” Posing Carol Duncan with these questions, she responded, “I don’t have the answers. Half of
the answer comes from recognizing the problem and being able to ask those questions.” Professor Ligo notes that Duncan exposes
the “democratic myth in museums” and reveals how sponsors “glorify themselves as royalty.” In exposing the democratic myth in museums,
Duncan revealed the democratic myth in general, leaving the student to walk away from her lecture asking the same questions
about our society.

Censorship abounds in the arts. Censor continued from page 10 its inseparable relationship between the Lord and Jesus Christ, has
instilled within modern society a direct connection between an image and the ideal. This link allows for further prejudice when
approaching the visual arts. As a result, works are often evaluated as something that they aren’t. To demonstrate how these
elements combine to censor art, Smith provided the audience with slides of particular works by noted artists (that he wittily
pointed out can also lead to a misinterpretation of the real work). For example, Manet’s “Olympia,” which depicts a concubine
and her servant, demonstrates how the artist can act as censor for the viewer. Due to the artist’s discretion, nowhere
is any male counterpart (save that of certain viewers) even suggested in this painting.

In addition, Smith compared the current Davidson College telephone directory to its Lichtenstein prototype, in order to unveil reasons for
why one would feel a need to censor such material. Senior Molly Johnson aptly pointed out that the low-cut dress
and the long, red nails of the woman on the directory might be offensive to some, despite the fact that
there may have been little intent on the part of the artist to upset the viewer. Similar comparisons were made
among other works in an effort to examine further tendencies toward censorship. Particular works by Caravaggio and Robert Mapplethorpe (both
controversial pieces for their time) pointed out that the artist often challenges the viewer to redefine his or her attitudes
towards particular subjects. Rather than rejecting the content of a painting at first glance, Smith implored his audience to try
to understand the artists’ intent in relation to individual perspectives. Smith’s discussion left the audience with a fresh attitude towards
evaluating the visual arts. Moreover, he suggested an innovative approach that allows for further individual reflection.

Write for arts. Call Josh -6347.

2 BN NOW WITH CURRENT TERA MASTER, SERVICES -WIDESPREAD PANIC (2/24) -RUSH (2/25) Selling tickets to: CONGRATULATIONS TO GABRIELA MARTI
WHO WON 2 TICKETS TO RUSH! Lakeshore Market Place: 896-7882
