4

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

Rosenbach challenges requirement that college president be “active churchman”

By Courtauld McBryde

At the SGA's last meeting, SGA President Eric Rosenbach presented a proposal concerning a change in Davidson's by-laws which affects the qualifications for the president of Davidson College.

Article IV, Section 1 of the by-laws states: “[The trustees] shall elect only a person who is a loyal and active churchman, giving evidence by his life of the strength of his Christian faith and expressed by his affiliation with the Presbyterian Church in the United States and his active participation in the life of the College Church.” Rosenbach says there is something “inherently wrong” with this statement and with the retirement of President Kuykendall approaching in two years, Rosenbach eagerly addresses this matter. “There are less than 1.5 million Presbyterians,” Rosenbach says; he argues that when conducting a college president search under the present qualifications, “the candidate pool is severely limited.”

Rosenbach conveyed to the SGA that President Kuykendall feels strongly that his Presbyterian title does not affect his job one way or another.

At the next SGA meeting, Rosenbach will present a resolution containing a change concerning the religious qualifications of the president as stated in the by-laws.

The resolution will face discussion and debate by the SGA before any other action is taken.

Sentelle's wiring safe, but to be replaced

By Matthew Eirich

Richard Terry, Director of the Residence Life office, observed during his time as a student at Davidson in the 1970s that there were only a few stereos and toaster-ovens and perhaps one TV per hall. Now with nearly every room having more than one of these items, a heavy burden is put upon the wiring system.

RLO recently decided, along with Associate Director of Utilities Phillip Cashion, to rewire Sentelle entirely. According to Terry, this project is expected to cost approximately $90,000 and will be completed in the summer of 1996.

Cashion describes the situation as an “upgrade” rather than a repair. However, it is Cashion’s opinion that the situation in Sentelle is safe; “There is nothing wrong with the wiring,” he said.

Terry backs this conclusion because his office has received “no real evidence students are having difficulties with electrical shortages.”

Terry says that several years ago there were electrical difficulties in Duke dormitory, such as fuses popping and power surges. The wiring was quickly repaired.

“We would fix anything that was wrong right now because we don’t want anything to happen or go wrong,” says Cashion.

Terry stresses that if problems exist in Sentelle, students ought to report them immediately.

Junior Mike Bode, a resident of first Sentelle, expresses concern that the outlets in the dorm are not grounded. A grounded outlet accepts a three-pronged plug, and helps protect what is plugged into the outlet against a power surge from an external source, such as lightning.

The outlets will be grounded when the wiring is replaced, according to Terry, but the situation now is “not dangerous or essential.”

Students can purchase an adapter, which when used properly, will ground and protect the electronics plugged into the outlet. A limited number of adapters can be purchased through the Residence Life Office at a nominal cost.

First Sentelle Resident Advisor Stephen Aldridge explains that he is using as many as four power strips at a time to accommodate computer and stereo equipment. “I worry that this is dangerous,” he says.

Cashion explains that the outlet system planned for Sentelle will be “like Cannon’s.” If need arises, more outlets will be added.

Inside: Happy Halloween

We have Shoebox Halloween cards designed for college students.

Come in today. Halloween is Monday, October 31.

Photo by Brandon Clarke

Sentelle electric outlets will be replaced in 1996.

DRINK SPECIALS Every Monday Nite!

FREE DRAFT Margaritas-$1.50 Bud & Bud Light

A Night of Hip-Hop, DanceHall, Reggae and House:

COSTUME CONTEST

$100 First Prize Halloween Favors and Door Prizes

MYLES Uptown - Corner of 6th and N. College St. - 375-8765