“THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1994

Soccer closes season with early exit in conference tourney
By Kristy Ford

Due to Furman’s first conference loss last week, Davidson and Furman headed into the tournament sharing the regular season conference title with records of 5-1. Furman got the number one seed in the tournament due to their 2-1 victory over the Wildcats earlier this season. The Wildcats were the only conference team going into the tournament with an overall winning record of 11-8-1.

Going into the tournament, the team was led by Robert Clarke and John Sampers, who combined for 44 points on the season. Clarke led the conference in points with 27. Goalie Neal Andrews was second in goalkeepers with a 1.83 average per match.

The Wildcats faced Marshall in the opening round on Friday. Clarke scored his 13th and 14th goals of the season in the 3-1 win that advanced the team to the semifinals. Facing Appalachian State on Saturday, the first half remained scoreless, as Davidson and Appalachian took only six and nine shots, respectively. Thirteen minutes into the second half, on an indirect kick, Sampers tapped the ball to Keith Kleeman whose shot was deflected by the goalie only to be pounded in for the point by Tommy Suter.

Hockey takes Deep South for 5th straight year
Hockey continued from page 1

On Friday, the Wildcats opened the tournament with a 2-0 shutout over the Appalachian State Mountaineers. Senior Andrea Short and freshman Meredith Rachinsky provided the offense and the defense posted their eighth shutout of the season. Rachinsky’s goal was her first of the season.

Davidson took the momentum into Saturday’s match with Virginia Tech. The Wildcats were relentless against the Hokies with an impressive 5-1 victory, matching their best offensive production of the season. Junior Holly Kledis scored her eighth goal of the season while Ficeto and Rachinsky also scored for the Wildcats. Short led the team with two goals on the afternoon.

The Wildcats then completed the round robin sweep on Sunday with their victory over Catawba. The successful weekend capped a season that has been full of surprises. Davidson used a balanced scoring attack throughout the season and played tough consistent defense during the 1994 campaign. Freshman Erin Smith led the team in goals with 10, followed closely behind by Short with 9 and Kledis with 8. Players credit team unity for this success.

“This is the most cohesive team I have played on in my four years here, and that is why we did as well as we did,” says senior goalkeeper Mary Ferguson. “Some of my closest friends on campus are my teammates. It’s going to be really different knowing I probably won’t play this sport again,” says senior Nancy Hilles.

“Our seniors will really be missed. They have been great leaders and provided great stability for the team during the season,” says Pryor. Seniors Megan Snyder and Robin Pepper captained a defense that gave up just a little more than one goal a game during the season. Ferguson spent the majority of time in goal this season and recorded impressive numbers with a save to goal ratio of over 6 to 1. These three seniors will be dearly missed in the backfield next season.

“We came here as freshmen without a place to fit in on the field immediately, but we stuck with it and it has been really rewarding,” says Pepper.

Volleyball continues to develop
V-Ball continued from page 15
turn it on at”the right time. The team is looking towards the conference tournament in two weeks where they will have a chance to redeem themselves after several losses early in the season. Essential to this improvement is the return of several key players. In addition to Bourgeois, Jamie Moore '98, and Lois Ann Bumgarner '98 also were out of the lineup for periods of time. Now that they are healthy, the team can have a consistent starting lineup that has been missing in the last few weeks. A final ingredient to the winning ways of late has been the leadership on and off the court from captains Lorie Logan and Michelle Augustin, who have inspired the team with their hard-nosed play. The Wildcats have seven games remaining before the conference tournament, and Coach Blake is very optimistic about Davidson’s chances. Hopefully, the team, which is very young, will be able to avoid the injuries that have plagued them throughout the season. If that is the case, look for the Wildcats to make a strong showing in the conference tournament.

Advertise with the Davidsonian. Buy a classified for a friend.

Br Thurs, Fri, Sat Sunday ~The Soda Shop~ A Davidson Tradition Since 1951 Breakfast Daily Until 11:30 a.m. Take-out Orders Welcomed! 8am - 8pm 8am - 9pm 9am - 8pm

NEW HOURS: Now Open Every Evening 104 South Main Street, Davidson • 896-7743

After surviving the “rebuilding year” with an outstanding season, including a first-ever victory over perennial nemesis Duke, the Wildcats should return next season with another strong squad. “We’re all worn out and I’m looking forward to a break. We’re having another strong recruiting year and many players are returning. Now we’ll start aiming at number six,” says Pryor.

Five minutes and 52 seconds later, the Mountaineers scored, causing the game to go into overtime. In regulation, the shots were even, with each team taking 13 shots. The first overtime period was scoreless, but 1:06 into the second overtime period, ASU scored only to score again with four minutes left in the game, defeating the Wildcats 3-1 and advancing to the final game. The Wildcats attempted five shots in overtime but could not convert, whereas the Mountaineers converted on 2 of their 3 shots.

Coach Charlie Slagle was once again named Coach of the Year. Ryan Northington made Second Team All-Conference while Suter, Clarke, and Sampers were named to the First Team. Sampers was also named Conference Player of the Year. Although the season ended prematurely, the Wildcats have several reasons to look forward to next year. The young squad gained more valuable experience for the future and a new scoring machine has emerged in Robert Clarke. Clarke ended the season with 14 goals, which ties Rob Ukrop for the most goals as a sophomore. The Wildcats finished with a respectable 12-9-1 record. This season hopefully will establish some consistency for the program, which has had several up and down seasons in recent history. Davidson faced several opponents currently in the top 20, including a tie against Duke, a squad that has defeated four teams in the top 10. Look for the Wildcats to turn the close losses and ties into victories over the next couple of years. Injured players Alex Deegan and Stephen Thomas will rejoin the team next fall in addition to the incoming recruits. Though the loss was a sad ending, the future looks bright for soccer at Davidson.

Student Talent Show
Tues. Nov 8
10:00 pm
900 Room — $2.00 admission
Proceeds benefit the NAMES Project AIDS Memorial Quilt Display
Sponsored by 900 Rm Committee
21 yr olds bring two IDs!!!