18 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS. MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 1994

Cooke prepares for fourth year as baseball head coach
By Will Cobb

Now that baseball is officially back with spring training beginning last Monday, Coach Dick Cooke finds himself going into his
fourth year at Davidson. After his first three years, Cooke feels he has found the right place to be. A
long windy road has found its way to Davidson for Cooke, and very few will argue how pleased the school
and community are to have him here.

Cooke, a graduate from the University of Richmond in 1978, was selected in the summer draft by the Boston Red
Sox. That fall he was sent to the rookie league and played in Winston Salem, NC. After working himself up
to AA ball at Winterhaven, CT, he was released in the spring of 1983 by the Red Sox. Following his
run at “The Big Show” in the minor leagues, he returned to his alma mater in Richmond as an assistant
baseball coach. He remained with the Richmond Spiders for the next five years, leaving to rejuvenate a dead program at
Belmont Abbey College. Baseball at Belmont had been dead for almost 20 years. Cooke spent the fall of 1988 and
the spring of 1989 organizing, recruiting, and scheduling so that competition could begin on the NCAA level in 1990. All
of the hard work came through and baseball returned once again. The program still exists, growing more and more competitive
each year.

Though Cooke worked hard to bring baseball back to Belmont Abbey, he accepted an offer from Davidson in the summer
of 1990. Cooke describes Davidson as “a great place to live and raise a family.” Cooke adds, “There’s a lot
of great things about being here, dealing with true student-athletes, and working for a college with a strong commitment to
academics.”

Final season records do not reflect the talent and success of the baseball program. Davidson plays an extremely demanding schedule.
Of this year’s 50 games scheduled, 12 are against the ACC (the nation’s highest-rated conference), along with 24 conference games.
“Southern Conference baseball really stacks up, there have been 2 representatives to the College World Series in the last five
years (The Citadel and Georgia Southern) and one other came as close as you get (Western Carolina) last year. There
is no one in our conference or on our schedule that is a guaranteed win,” notes Cooke.

Cooke is very optimistic about this coming year as there are 6 probable returning senior starters in the field to
offset a pitching staff that lacks experience, but at least he only has to worry about his players when they
are under his supervision. “There’s a lot to be said about having players focused academically, and not having to worry
about them off the field.” Believe it or not, baseball is back again at Davidson, and Coach Dick Cooke is
ready. With an experienced team, the Wildcats are set to play a prominent role in the southeast this season. Coach
Cooke is certainly the man to lead them to that improved role.

Manning ready to bring in new era of women's lacrosse
“I love Davidson and I love my players. I expect a lot out of them this year and they know
it.”
By Will Cobb

For those students who spend any amount of time in the Baker Sports Complex, an unfamiliar attractive young female blonde
may have caught your eye. Her name is Kerstin Manning, and she is no ordinary blonde as she has taken
over the head coaching position for women’s lacrosse. She stands as the only new head coach at the helm among
the additions to Davidson’s coaching staffs for spring sports.

A graduate from Maryland University in 1993 in Speech Communications, she has wasted little time, moving to the south last
July after living in the north for her whole life. Manning comments, "The transition has not been difficult. Coming from
Maryland and Philadelphia, it is nice to be in a community like this.”

After growing up in Philadelphia, she decided to play college lacrosse at Maryland, a perennial powerhouse. As a four-year member
of the varsity squad, Manning enjoyed unparalleled success, reaching the Final Four every year. In 1990 and 1991, the Terrapins
finished in the runner-up position, but in 1992 they achieved the ultimate, capturing a National Championship. 1993 was a tough
year by comparison for Manning’s final season, as the Terps finished third.

Along with the team honors, Manning tallied a slew of individual honors that is absolutely incredible. She was named to
the NCAA All-Tournament team in ’92 and as a first-team All-American in ’92 and ’93. Last spring, Manning was given
the prestigious honor of being named the NCAA Division I Defensive Player of the Year. In addition to these collegiate
honors, she has been a member of the United States Women’s Lacrosse Squad since 1991 and this year was selected
to the U.S. World Cup Training Squad and the U.S. Women’s Lacrosse Elite Squad.

After playing at a national powerhouse, one may find it strange that she has moved out of the region to
coach at the smallest Division I school in America. “I’ve coached at a lot of lacrosse camps during the summer.
I got a lot of satisfaction from taking a bunch of strangers, having them get together as a team and
then becoming successful. In these experiences, I felt extremely comfortable in coaching positions,” said Manning. Another important reason she is
living in North Carolina has to do with her fiancé Jack Kimel, who lives near Winston Salem and plays minor
league baseball.for the Charleston Rainbows in the Texas Ranger organization in Charleston, SC. Under the warm smile and pretty face
is a serious competitor that is strictly business when it comes to lacrosse. Not often does Davidson enjoy the pleasure
of having an All-American among us, so the next time you see that unfamiliar pretty blonde in Baker, approach her
and make her feel welcome. She has to get used to being called “Coach” Manning.

Victory over UTC more than hard-fought

Men's continued from page 17

throws at 11:45, the Moccasins had turned a 7-7 tie into a 23-7 lead. Several missed shots and turnovers by
Davidson led to transition baskets, mostly 3-pointers. During that run, the Moccasins threw down four long shots to put the
Wildcats on their heels. But after the break, the Wildcats executed better on offense, which in turn strengthened the defense
by not allowing fast-break opportunities for UTC. The big spurt for Davidson was a 14-2 run four minutes into the
second period that erased a 13-point lead to 1.

Tarheels are great, but we go to Davidson

Nips continued from page 17

ably playing some top-20 team on national TV. If it doesn’t happen this year, it certainly could within the next
several. That’s not too much to hope for. Wouldn’t that just be unbelievable? Maybe not quite as remarkable as a
scholarship-less soccer team going to the Final Four, but pretty neat nonetheless. It's the guts and hard work of Davidson’s
coaches and athletes that make its programs successful, and when success comes it's a joy to behold. If there’s anybody
who personifies the spirit of Davidson athletics, it's sophomore point guard Chris Alpert. The guy hits a game-winner the other
night, then nails the clutch three-pointer to knock UTC out on Saturday. Alpert is the kind of player every coach
wants on his team - he’s a leader, a hustler, a solid defensive player and he’s got ice water in
his veins. I’m sure a lot of folks have had fantasies about walking on to their college team, becoming a
starter and hitting winning shots in big games. Alpert, the walk-on and former non-scholarship player, has done all that in
making himself an integral part of a blossoming program. There’s no way that he’s satisfied though, he wants to keep
on winning. That’s what it takes to be a college point guard on a competitive team: the desire to compete,
the ability to lead, and the willingness to scratch, claw and fight for every minute of a game. I bet
Coach McKillop is tickled when he thinks of how spoiled he is to have a guy with those kinds of
characteristics on his team. I wonder if the Davidson student body realizes how spoiled it is to have a team
like this to pull for. It may not be the Atlantic Coast Conference, but these players are just students like
us who happen to be winning some pretty impressive ballgames. They’re making believers out of a lot of people, and
if you’ve seen ‘em play you’re probably one too. So here’s a message to that school over in Durham: we’ve
got our own 6’8” forward from Reston, VA and our own gutsy point guard from up north. To that school
in Chapel Hill: we’ve got a guard who can put the ball in the basket too, and we’ve got a
small forward who can jump through the roof, too, just like you do. And let me do a little tinkering
with the Transitive Rule of Basketball here. Davidson beat Clemson, which beat Wake Forest, which beat Duke. Davidson also beat
N.C. State, which beat Georgia Tech, which beat North Carolina. If Carolina is fourth in the country and Duke is
second, does that make Davidson the nation’s best team? Probably so. Anyway, I hope you enjoy the Carolina-Duke game on
Thursday night, it should be a doozy. Regardless of which shade of blue you prefer, remember that nobody on this
campus should be a true Duke or Carolina fan. We should be Davidson fans.

A big factor in the run was Williams, who scored 10 points during the 4-minute span. But the biggest difference
in the second half was the Wildcats’ defense. “Our defense really picked up in the 2nd half,” McKillop said, “But
part of it was we executed better on offense, which slowed them down and they didn’t have many transition shots.”
The teams went back and forth until the Wildcats had the lead at 69-68 with 1:08 to play. A UTC
time-out with 43 seconds left set the stage for the final frantic minute. The play was designed for Alpert to
dribble time off the clock outside before finally passing into Narat at the post. In the event of a double
team, Narat was to kick the ball out to Alpert for the open jumper. And that’s exactly what happened, as
Alpert drained a three-pointer to take a 4-point lead. Born hit a 3-pointer from way out, but then Alpert dribbled
out the game. Saturday’s game came after Davidson came back from a 19-point deficit to win at Georgia Southern Wednesday.
“We got down a little bit early on and we came back,” Alpert said, “But, man, we’ve got to stop
getting down like that.”

KOBE JAPANESE HOUSE OF STEAKS & SEAFOOD

Sushi Bar Open Tuesday-Sunday Evenings

Happy Valentine's Day Special for Two

Choice of Steak and Chicken or Steak and Shrimp $29.95 per couple

Lunch Wed., Thurs. & Fri 11:30 - 2pm

Sun - Thurs. 5 - 10pm

Fri - Sat 5 - 11pm

I-77 Exit 23 Next to Movies at the Lake

20465 Chartwell Ctr. Dr. Cornelius, NC 704-896-7778

Highway 73
