THE DAVIDSONIAN — MONDAY, APRIL 11, 1994

LEIGH RAWDON - Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Executive Editor
MANDY CURTIS - Managing Editor
KATHERINE HASH - News Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY - Ass't News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY - Opinions Editor
JOSH LARNED - Arts Editor
SCOTT MCLEAN - Ass't Arts Editor
WILL COBB - Sports Editor
AMY LAUKKANEN - Photography Editor
ARTHUR GASTON - Copy Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES - Ass't Advertising Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN - Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD - Circulation Manager

(Preventing Censorship)

Last week, we printed an opinions piece entitled “Pornography leads to a greater future” by the mythical Clayton Huey. Mr. Huey got the better of us, but in the face of our misfortune we learned something interesting and unexpected about many Davidsonians. The comment we heard most was not “You’re stupid for not realizing Clayton Huey isn't a person” (though we did hear that), or “I can’t believe how radical that Clayton Huey guy is!” What most outraged Davidsonians said was this: “I can’t believe you printed that sexist article.”

Now wait a minute. These critics are walking on dangerous ground, even if unintentionally.

The “politically correct movement,” as it has been aptly and obtusely named, lately has become a buzzword, even a cliché, in American journalism and letters. Being P.C. has definite advantages. People who do not use gender-inclusive language or are not sensitive to other cultures and religions lose credibility in their dealings with other people. Rightfully, many Davidson professors teach us how to use gender-inclusive language in our writing to prepare us for an increasingly sensitive world. But there is a point where a good thing can be taken too far, and it appears that many Davidsonians, in their cry for censoring Huey's ideas, are dangerously close to crossing that line.

If people think that pornography is good, then they can say it in our paper, whether or not we agree. And if readers disagree, they can write in and express their views, too. Even if taken literally, the extremism of Mr. Huey's stance should not deprive him of his right to free speech. The First Amendment should be foremost in our minds, especially here at an institution whose very existence depends upon the open exchange of ideas.

Too many colleges have already committed the injustice of institutionalizing political correctness. At the University of New Hampshire, a creative writing professor was suspended for comparing focus in writing to sex. At one college, there is even a rule against inappropriate laughter. That’s not funny. To limit any kind of speech, no matter how extreme the view and no matter how noble the cause, would be to insult everything a college stands for. The way to make progress is to change what people think, not what they say. It is a fallacy to think that forbidding people to say they like pornography will make them change their minds about it. Repression only causes resentment and brings no solutions. On the other hand, getting a point of view into the open will spark debate and fertilize the ground where people can grow and change.

We are editors, not censors. We edit trite vulgarities as a simple matter of course, but we have no qualms about printing bizarre points of view. Once, people thought the idea of women voting was pretty bizarre, too. College is not about being proper. It’s about learning. We should thank our administrators and faculty that Davidson has not fallen into the verbal police state that has infected many colleges and universities.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year.

LETTERS

Do students employ professors?

To the editors,

Uh-oh. Students as employers, huh? I missed that concept until last week’s letter about faculty evaluations, so I’ve got some questions. Does this mean I should get approvals on my syllabi? Does this mean I’m being uppity about office hours and appointments? Just to clarify the organization chart, is my employer my immediate (student) supervisor, or the person at the “home office” (if not in our Financial Aid Office)?Who signs the checks? Does this mean that scholarship and research are “moonlighting”? Will I know I’m fired if nobody shows up, or if they don’t let me stand in front and talk anymore? Surely there’s not an assumption that I’m in this for the money... but I’m betting it means be damned careful with grades. So far, evaluations haven’t jeopardized my relationships with students, at least from my end, but misperceptions that I am an “employee” of students might. Call me a prisoner of my own history with employer-employee relationships, but that framework has great potential for misunderstandings. I thought we were doing something different, and better. Meanwhile, somebody fill me in. Maybe that wacky Dean and those zany Trustees, to say nothing of the American Psychological Association, are REALLY running a number on me. And for heaven’s sake, please tell me if I should go back and look at ten years’ worth of student evaluations in a whole new light.

Disappointed,
Cole Barton, Ph.D.
Associate Professor of Psychology

To the editors,

My feelings upon reading the article in last week’s Davidsonian entitled “Pornography Leads to a Greater Future” were ones of disgust—not concerning the piece itself, but rather with the author and the editors of the Davidsonian who underhandedly allowed the use of a pseudonym in the place of the author’s name. In doing so, the Davidsonian not only compromised on a supposed policy of not allowing anonymity, but hurt the honorable reputation of “The South’s Foremost College Weekly,” at least in my eyes.

Because I know the author, and recognize the work as satire, I have no objections to the content of “Pornography...” Many people who do not, however, see this article in the same satirical light might wish to respond to Clayton Huey, the man credited with the piece. Unfortunately for them, there is no Clayton Huey listed in the student directory. It seems that protecting the anonymity of a writer, especially the author of a possibly controversial article, contradicts the spirit of discussion that the Davidsonian thrives upon. By allowing contributors to hide behind a curtain, the Davidsonian opens itself up to a situation in which controversial articles of any nature can be published with little accountability by the author.

A writer who truly believes what he or she has to say need not hide behind a pseudonym. It was always my understanding that Davidson hoped to produce bright, thoughtful students with the confidence to be vocal and stand behind their words. If Davidson hopes to continue such a tradition, then perhaps the Davidsonian should be a bit more thorough when publishing pieces from first-time contributors, and perhaps Clayton Huey should decide whether or not he has the nerve to stand by his words.

Anonymously,
Tan D. Fitzpatrick ‘97

A note from "Clayton Huey"

To the editors,

In defense of my article, “Pornography Leads to a Greater Future,” found in the April 4, 1994 issue, I would like to explain its meaning, why I used a pseudonym, and why I even submitted it. First and foremost, I want everyone who didn’t pick up on the sarcasm to know that the piece was, in fact, a satirical essay. I was trying to express my objection to pornography in general. Living with freshmen males, I can’t say that I never come across any type of pornographic material. However, I can say that I am against it. I think pornography promotes the idea of casual sex as well as rape and many sexual crimes we hear so much about. I think, as a country, that we have greatly swayed from a founding principle, “One nation under God,” and I think pornography helps detract from the original meaning of this idea. But before I get too far off on a tangent, and just to reiterate, I want you to know that it was a satire—I think you can see the meaning now.

However, because of the possibility of immediate offense and possible misunderstanding, I left my real name off the article. I didn’t want someone who misunderstood or merely read half of the article to make a pre-judgment about me. I think any judgments can be made now, since you know what it’s about and who I really am.

Now, to why I submitted the article. It started out as a graded, satirical essay which was based on Jonathan Swift’s “A Modest Proposal.” After reading it, my professor and peer editing group asked me to submit it.

See Huey on page 9.