~~. 8 THE DAVIDSONIAN C7 FT SPORTS ¥ ‘~ MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1994

Women’s Basketball Southern Conference Preview

By Matt Pitzer

Georgia will likely be the home of the conference championship for a third straight year. Returning four starters and ten
players from last year’s team, Georgia Southern is a strong candidate to win its third consecutive tournament title and represent
the conference in the NCAA tournament again. The Eagles were the unanimous choice in the coaches’ preseason poll. The Eagles
have two second-team all-conference players returning from last season: forward Andrea Autrey (15.4 ppg, 7.7 rpg) and guard Janice Johnson
(13.7 ppg, 4.6 rpg). Both were named to the preseason all-conference team by the coaches.

East Tennessee State should wrap up second place, while Furman will take third, followed by Appalachian State, Marshall, Tennessee-Chattanooga, Davidson,
and Western Carolina.

Aside from Autrey and Johnson, Georgia Southern coach Drema Greer will also have senior guard Stacy Childers and junior center
Marysue James. Childers was the team’s top three-point shooter last year with 1.5 three-pointers per game on 34.6 percent shooting.

East Tennessee State will be led by DeShawne Blocker, a three-time first-team all-conference selection and the 1992-93 Conference player of
the year. The 6-0 forward returns for her last season after leading the nation in rebounding last year with 17.0
per game. She was also second in the league in field-goal percentage at 61.2% and third in scoring with 19.7
points per game. Completing the best frontline in the league are senior center Justina McClellan (12.8 ppg, 8.0 rpg) and
senior forward Yvette Grainger (10.4 ppg, 6.6 rpg). Nikki Kile is the fourth returning starter for the Buccaneers. Amy Engle,
a junior forward transfer from Tennessee Tech, is the top newcomer. If ETSU wants to challenge Georgia Southern for the
title, it will have to take care of the ball as they turned it over 28 times a game last
year.

Furman played Georgia Southern tough in the tournament final and have three starters returning from that team. First-team all-conference selection
Karen Stanly (15.9 ppg and top-five in the conference in five other categories) returns at guard as does Kristi Creamer.
The senior forward averaged 10.0 points and 6.7 rebounds last year. The biggest loss for the Paladins is...

Team continued from page 13

...season. “The pleasant surprise of last year. From January on she gave us an inside force to help us compete
in the conference,” said Filar.

Vanessa Sims 5-10 Jr.: Sims is one of the most athletic players on the team and should see more playing
time this season. Her hard work following the season’s end last spring has really impressed the coaching staff. “She is
the most improved practice player from last season,” said Filar.

Amy Scalcucci 5-10 So.: Scalcucci saw action in all of the Wildcats’ games last season, starting nine games as a
freshman. She is a great hustler and good shot blocker along with surprising range, making 26 three-pointers last season. Scalcucci
will play small forward this season and should see considerable playing time every time the Wildcats hit the floor. “She
recovered strong toward the end of the season. Her shot is much quicker and she has improved her court vision
over the summer,” said Filar.

Jamie Vanlerberghe 6-2 Fr.: The tallest player on the team should make an immediate impact when she recovers from her
knee injury. She has a good...jump shot and can create several different shot opportunities. She will resume practicing with the
team on December 15 and will be in playing form for the conference.

Danielle Mall 5-11 Fr.: Mall is a very strong physical force and a good overall athlete. She is one of
the most physical players on the team and was a late find in the recruiting wars last year.

Jennifer Sanborn 5-8 Fr.: Filar describes her as the “streak shooter of the team.” Sanborn gives the Wildcats yet another
threat from outside and will see a lot of playing time over the season. As her defensive skills increase, so
will her minutes on the court.

Rushia Brown, a four-time all-conference selection. Starting point guard Jennifer Jones is also gone, but some of the 11 returning
players will be able to pick up the slack. Appalachian State took second in the regular season but lost to
Furman in the semifinals. The Mountaineers will have to fill last year’s player of the year, Angela Crosby, lost to
graduation. Coach Linda Robinson hopes junior guards Shannon Spencer (3.0 steals and 5.0 assists per game) and Beth Kilby and
junior forward Karolina Karqvist (5.6 rpg) will pick up the load this season.

Marshall has a very young team this year, returning just two starters from last year’s team. Senior forward Tamira Higgins
(14.0 points and 5.1 rebounds per game) and senior center Jodi Baker (11.0 and 8.0 rebounds) will be a strong
start, though. Eight of the Herd’s 14 players are freshmen or sophomores. But four of the team’s top six scorers,
including sophomore guards Kristi Sexton and Stephanie Wise. Coach Sara Evans-Moore also has one of her strongest recruiting classes ever.

Tennessee-Chattanooga lost three starters (all double-digit scorers) from last year’s squad and must find players to step into the void.
Senior forward Anit Overcast and sophomore forward Amber Test are among the four players returning from last year’s team. But
the Moccasins add four junior college players and redshirt freshmen Rebecca Rogers and Spring Thompson.

Three starters return from Western Carolina’s 7th place team last year, including freshman of the year Pam Owens, who averaged
9.4 points per game last year. Coach Gary Peters added six newcomers, including transfer Makisha Gary, a junior forward who
will have to contribute immediately.

DAVIDSON VOLLEYBALL SENIOR NIGHT
LORIE LOGAN
DAVIDSON vs. UNC-CHARLOTTE
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1994
7:30 PM

DAVINO'S IS THE PERFECT PLACE FOR GROUPS!
- Chicken Parmesan
- Lasagna
- Spaghetti with Marinara Sauce

Group Specials (10 or more)
Price (per person)
$5.00
$6.50
$6.50

* All specials include bread, salad, and drinks.

Order 5 or more 16 inch, one topping pizzas for only $6.00 apiece!

Friday, November 18th:
STUDENTS DON'T FORGET!
12 Pk. Cans

Come to Exxon Shoppe and meet the Parrot-Ice Island Girl! Free samples and free T-shirt offers! Expires 11-30-94

Express Shoppe
601 Griffith
Davidson, NC
892-9828
