‘THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING SEPTEMBER 19, 1994 13

High in the Himalayas
Studies in Tibet open eyes, mind, and intestines.
By Renu Bhatt

Imagine being just a two-hour hike away from the waist-deep snow of the Himalayas or being blessed by His Holiness, the Dalai Lama. For junior Brad Orr, last semester "was a really amazing experience” of travel, exploration, learning, and discovery. As an escape from typical, monotonous college life, Orr embarked on a Tibetan studies program which focused on learning the Tibetan language. He said that he wanted to go to either Nepal or India, and with his program, he was able to go to both as well as to China.

Sponsored by the School for International Training, the Tibetan studies program is a series of language, anthropology, and lecture classes which also includes a four-week independent study project. Orr, a religion major with a strong interest in philosophy, chose to "analyze the Tibetan government-in-exile's foreign policy and preparedness for twenty-first-century politics” for his independent study. Aside from learning the Tibetan language, Orr became well-versed in Tibetan politics, art, and religion. He spent most of his time abroad in India; he stayed in McLeod Ganj, Dharamsala, where the Dalai Lama currently resides. Though he was taught by two advisors, the lectures were given by people from the Tibetan community.

After five weeks of classwork, Orr and his group of 22 other students set out to Kathmandu, Nepal, the nation’s capital, where he attended lectures about the Tibetan community in Nepal. Kathmandu “is a very interesting place,” Orr says. It is like a “piece of New York in the middle of Asia.” After about a week in Kathmandu, Orr and two female companions from his group returned to India on a horrendous three-day train ride. He says they slept in train stations and had many "extremely unpleasant, but great experiences.” For example, men on the trains offered him money for his female friends, in search of new wives, while others harassed the party in other ways!

Orr admits that his experiences abroad brought on some major culture shock at first, but after being in Southeast Asia for a semester, children begging in the streets, lepers hobbling down the roads, and people using the sidewalk for a lavatory became common, normal, and less shocking sights for him. In fact, once he was home, Orr says it seemed strange to him that he was not being bothered in the street, being cheated, or constantly being stared at. Also, after having enjoyed the Tibetan food so much, he missed a lot of the culture he had become so accustomed to.

Though Orr did not have the opportunity to visit many remote villages, he did explore a few. He went to one where they had never seen white skin before. Still, he assured me that the native people in all three countries were always very warm and welcoming. Orr stayed with a host family for the first five weeks that he was in India. Though his host mother spoke English fairly well, his host father spoke Tibetan and very broken English; most of the time Brad talked to them in English. Orr’s host family was perhaps the wealthiest family in town, with seven small children in the extended household. He said they were wonderful and very loving and fun.

After a few more weeks in India and a pit stop of a few days in Kathmandu, Orr flew to Lhasa, China, the capital of former Tibet before it was taken over by the Chinese. He spent three nights in Lhasa, during which time he toured Potala, the Dalai Lama’s old palace, and eighteen monasteries. Orr then returned once again to Kathmandu on a bus, where he stayed for three days before flying back home to South Carolina.

So what did Brad Orr do for fun? He told this interviewer that bar hopping was basically the only thing to do. He remarked that though the countries are very strict with their own citizens and enforce things such as drinking laws and curfews, there is "total freedom for tourists.” Otherwise, he seems to have spent plenty of time bonding with his host father by engaging in their favorite father-son pastime. He also traveled a bit. Orr described India, Nepal, and China as "beautiful.” He went on hikes, saw Mt. Everest and "the bluest, bluest lakes.” Once, he and some friends campedout on a riverbed, but he emphasized with a smile that he never at any point "roughed it." Overall, Orr’s experiences taught him a lot about the foreign cultures in which he lived. When asked to compare the United States with India, Nepal, and China, Orr said that there are "so many differences that you can’t say one is more major than the others. Their concept of family is different." "Tibetans have had much harder lives than Americans can ever dream of." There has been tremendous persecution of Tibetans who stayed in the Chinese-occupied territories and did not flee with the Dalai Lama. There has been a constant movement to end the persecution since China took it over. Orr, however, was able to meet “authentic” Tibetan people and make friends with them. Orr said that he would like to go back and that he would suggest that everyone go abroad. He nostalgically added that he has put last semester’s awesome experience “on a pedestal” in his mind. “I like living there. It’s a lot more free, not as many rules.”

Dear Terry Buffington,

"Someone who cares"

Dear Terry,

We live in the new five-person apartments, and though we are enjoying the facility immensely, we do have one annoyance. One of our group refuses to do his share of the housekeeping. He insists that washing his own dishes should be enough and steers clear of mops, vacuums, and all other cleaning devices. He owns the TV and a bunch of great CDs, so we don’t want to have to throw him out. What do you suggest?

Sincerely,
Perturbed, Annoyed, Pissed-Off, and Dirty

Dear Perturbed, Annoyed, Pissed-Off, and Dirty,

This is touchy because you really don’t want to have one roommate feel like the others are teaming up against him. I can suggest several strategies:

Make him a deal. Something like, “If we find dirty dishes of yours, we get to put them in your bed. You don’t have to vacuum, but you can’t walk on the floors. No cleaning the bathrooms for you, but you have to go next door to answer nature’s call." This approach does not force him to do anything, but it should make him realize the true cost of his laziness.

Devise a Plan. Create a list of different domestic jobs like vacuuming, washing dishes, cleaning toilets, etc. that everyone in the apartment must complete a couple of jobs a week in one of these areas. You can record your work by putting your initials next to the respective category. With this idea, everyone is included in the new cleaning plan. You don’t want to make him feel singled out. If you do this, he will most certainly do even less.

Beat him. If neither of the above options work, beat him. Come on guys, there are four of you. Unless this guy is as thick as a stump, you should be able to take him.

I hope at least some of these suggestions can clean up your little mess.

Love,
Terry

Demand | Homecoming expects exciting weekend

Fun continued from page 12

burger picnic. The party, taking place on the lawn in front of Chambers, will be open to all alumni and students, and lunch is free for all students who currently have a meal plan in the Commons. As a part of the event, Brian Tarr will dedicate the Martin Court dormitories at 1:00 also in front of Chambers. At precisely 1:25, the 1994 Homecoming parade will begin in front of Chambers and proceed around Patterson Court and into the stadium to Richardson field. Immediately following the parade, official Homecoming game festivities will begin with the national anthem followed by skydivers from the 101st Airborne Unit from Fort Bragg. During halftime, Josh Worsham, president of Patterson Court Council, will present the 1994 Homecoming Court and crown this year's Homecoming Queen. The Court members and their escorts are: PiKA, Shelly Baker and Ben Balsley; Sig Ep, Julie Brabson and Eric McMichael; Connor, John Philpott and Laurie Self; Phi Delt, Phoebe Dean and Dave Christopherson; SAE, Alexis Parramore and Dave Rozelle; Warner Hall, Bill Bryan and Meredith McCullough; Kappa Sig, Anna Gray Anderson and Casey Rogers; Rusk, Allison Woodward and Alton Brown; KA, Nicole Wilcox and Ryan Miles; Fiji, Leigh Patterson and Taylor Hartley; BSC, Nikki Liverman. Independent representatives were not available at press time. The entire school may vote in the elections for the queen, which were held Wednesday in Chambers.

All Students and Faculty of Davidson College Receive a 2nd Print Free!
Lake LAr Photo, Inc.
Southlake Shopping Center
P. O. Box 1090, 20619 Torrence Chapel Rd.
Cornelius, NC 28031
704/892-5400