SPORTS 14 MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1994

Hoops goes 2-2, plays big shots Wake, Syracuse

Photo by Rob Kosicki
Junior Jeff Anderson plays starter forward against Wake Forest Tuesday night. The Wildcats lost 74-62.

By Will Cobb

The men’s basketball team took its shots this week at the Top 25, but mostly fired blanks. Tuesday, No. 21
Wake Forest came into Belk Arena and took a 74-62 win against the Wildcats. Friday, in the first round of
the Carrier Classic in Syracuse, N.Y., Davidson used a strong second half to top Iona 88-77. In the final on
Saturday, the Wildcats were overwhelmed by No. 22 Syracuse, 89-66.

Davidson opened the season on Nov. 25 with a 93-68 win over Roanoke. In that game, center George Spain scored
a career-high 24 points and pulled down eight rebounds in just 21 minutes. But just as the Wildcats could dominate
Roanoke inside, the Deacons were able to control the lane Tuesday. Tim Duncan, a 6’10” sophomore center, ripped down 15
rebounds and blocked six shots in 36 minutes. He added 17 points. Several times when the Wildcats tried to drive
inside, Duncan just stood waiting and turned the shot back. In addition, Davidson had trouble generating good shots and often
wound up pressuring and taking bad shots.

“We shot too quickly, and weren’t able to get any rebounds,” Coach Bob McKillop says. “They got every loose ball.
Their guys were ready to go.” Spain tried to hold his own against Duncan, but the Wildcats were hurt by
the absence of 6’10” junior Mark McGuire, out four weeks with a stress fracture in his ankle. Atlantic Coast Conference
Player-of-the-Year candidate and probable first-round NBA draft pick Randolph Childress threw in a game-high 27 points. Davidson was led by
23 points from Brandon Williams and 14 from Quinn Harwood.

The Wildcats hung right with the Deacons for the first half, going into the break down by just 32-25. The
margin was four, but Wake Forest scooped up a turnover in the final seconds, and Childress drained a three-pointer at
the buzzer. In the second period, Davidson pulled to 41-37 after Williams hit a three-pointer that got the crowd going.
But Childress came right back down to the other end of the court and put in a layup to quiet
the crowd again. That basket started a 24-9 run for Wake Forest that put the Deacons up by 21 points
and effectively finished the Wildcats.

Davidson then traveled to upstate New York for the weekend Carrier Classic in Syracuse. The Orangemen have not lost a
game in the tournament since 1981. The Wildcats opened with a Friday matchup with Iona and, after a sluggish first
half, scored 63 points to pull out the 11-point win. Harwood was the high scorer with 20 points. Williams and
Chris Alpert each had 17, and Spain threw in 13. The game was tied at 59 with about 12 minutes
remaining before Williams converted an alley-oop pass from Harwood to start a run. Spain hit four straight shots, and Williams
made two outside shots to help the Wildcats bust out.

Saturday, Davidson lined up against the Big East power in Syracuse’s home arena with over 21,000 wild and cheering Orangemen
fans. Syracuse used a 19-0 run in the first half to break the game open, led by 22 at the
half and won by 23. The Wildcats didn’t have answers for All-American guard Lawrence Moten or tournament MVP John Wallace.
Moten wound up with 21 points on 9-for-18 shooting, while Wallace had 17 points, eight rebounds, and six assists. The
Wildcats wanted to keep the game a slow-paced affair, but

See Hoops continued on page 15

SoccerFinal Four to make last show

NCAA continued from page 1

The community will help out with the tournament. Athletes from the baseball, volleyball, soccer, basketball, and swimming teams will be
doing everything from passing out programs to directing traffic, and faculty and community members will act as hosts on the
shuttle buses from the parking lots. Professor Lawing from the music department will lead the national anthem with his trumpet
chorus.

But this year marks the last time that Davidson will put on the show. Next year the championship will be
played at the University of Richmond. The NCAA decided that the event was becoming too big for the little town.
Both Sargent and Athletic Director Terry Holland feel that the decision to move was premature. “We knew that we would
lose it eventually,” says Holland, “but I think that we could have feasibly done it for another two years.”

Holland says that the championship has had a substantial effect on Davidson. “The original idea was that it would help
our own soccer program. It seemed like it would be a fun thing to do in which we could bring
the community together.” Davidson soccer is now more enthusiastic than ever, and recruits instantly recognize Davidson as the home of
the soccer finals. Admissions in general have found the championships a positive thing. Davidson has more name recognition than ever,
and students across the country are becoming increasingly interested in the school.

The championship also led to Davidson’s acquisition of the Wednesday night “Soccer Weekly” games. “When we first started, people were
hesitant, but most people have been swept away with the excitement,” says Holland, “it really shows off our community. The
publicity may eventually affect the growth of the area, but now it is hard to tell.”

Visitors will also have a chance to see the college in action. The men’s basketball team is playing UNC-Wilmington on
Saturday night, and visitors who show their NCAA ticket stubs get $2 off of their basketball tickets. Four thousand people
are expected to attend the game.

With so many people expected to be on campus, security poses a problem. When teams play in such highly publicized
games, substantial protection and security must be provided. As a result, a “cocoon” must be built around Richardson Field. Sargent
states the problem: “parking is the hurdle.” In the letter posted for the students, faculty, and staff, Sargent apologizes for
the hassle but hopes that “the fun and thrill associated with hosting a national championship tournament will more than make
up for these inconveniences.”

Davidson first held the championships in 1992, when Davidson’s team competed in the tournament. Eight thousand people attended that year,
and 10,000 came last year. This year, with just over 12,000 spectators expected to fill the stands, the tournament has
seen growth that Sargent says can be attributed to the Davidson spirit. “The championship will move on next year because
we have made it bigger and better than the NCAA could have ever imagined and because Richmond had a 22,000-seat
stadium near an interstate highway exit. We want to remind the NCAA and the city of Richmond that it did
not get better because it got bigger, but it got bigger because it got better,” says Sargent.

Sargent and Holland both agree that the NCAA Soccer Tournament brings out the best in Davidson. “So many groups who
normally go their own ways work together to put this on,” says Holland.
