6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

U.S. escalates involvement in Haiti, but violence continues

By Andrea Short

U.S. troops did enter Haiti early last week; however, the last-minute accord altered the terms of the military mission. Former
President Jimmy Carter led the American emissaries and facilitated the agreement that allowed U.S. troops to enter relatively peacefully. Limiting
the U.S. presence drastically changed the troops’ ability to restore peace in Haiti.

Tuesday brought a brutal wave of violence as Haitian military attaches used pipes, nightsticks, tear gas, and machine guns to
quell pro-Aristide demonstrators. U.S. troops stood watching the violence, as they followed the American “policy of non-engagement in Haitian-on-Haitian violence.”
President Clinton and other officials claimed ignorance of much of the day’s violence; later, they recognized the instances of brutality
but dismissed their responsibility.

The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff announced Tuesday that U.S. troops “are not in a business of doing
day-to-day law and order.” Many Haitians expressed dismay over the U.S. troops’ neutrality to reporters as they watched the citizens
and police clash. Most clashes grew from General Cedras’s ban on pro-Aristide demonstrations, which Clinton and the U.S. Embassy in
Haiti publicly denounced.

Public outcry and steadily increasing violence forced the Clinton administration to allow U.S. troops to intervene in Haitian violence. U.S.
Commanders Shelton and Meade, who are overseeing the Haitian mission, visited Cedras’s headquarters on Wednesday to inform him that U.S.
troops would no longer practice non-intervention. Cedras had issued an order to his attaches to “take all necessary means” to
stop demonstrations in the streets of Haiti. Clinton sent 1,000 additional military police officers to Haiti in an effort to
calm the civil disorder.

U.S. troops now have authorization to break up Haitian clashes, and in extreme cases, to use weapons to end the
violence. This policy also attempts to appease the U.S. soldiers’ own frustrations that have mounted while they’ve been forced to
idly watch the Haitian police inflict violence.

Administration officials admitted that the policy change was, in part, prompted by Clinton’s own political needs; an official said, “Four
or five nights of [graphic Haitian violence] on television would have undone us politically.” With the return of Aristide not
slated until October 15, the administration had little choice but to stem the rising violence quickly. The tougher line pleased
Aristide, who is rumored to be unhappy about the agreement to delay his return.

Sources include: the September 21 and 22 editions of The New York Times.

Angola's Fleeting Hope for Peace

Savimbi and dos Santos attempt to put 30 years of fighting behind them

By Graham Ernst

Rebel leader Jonas Savimbi of the Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA) and Angolan President Jose Eduardo dos
Santos are scheduled to meet this week in an attempt to resolve a two-year civil war that is indicative of
more than 30 years of turmoil in this African nation. Since Savimbi rejected dos Santos’ victory in the runoff election
held in September of 1992, more than 100,000 people have died. Even as the two leaders head to the bargaining
table, 1,000 Angolans die every day from starvation, disease, and continued fighting.

This latest round of negotiations comes after Savimbi indicated that he was willing to adhere to a cease-fire if UNITA
could have control over the Huambo province. Each side has requested the intervention of 7,000 UN troops to monitor the
negotiations. While this show of good faith offers promise to a devastated country, dos Santos and UN officials are wary
of Savimbi’s sincerity.

Angola gained its independence from Portugal in 1974 following an uprising organized by three left-wing political groups: UNITA, the Marxist
Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA), and the National Front for the Liberation of Angola. A transitional government
composed of the three revolutionary parties was established in Luanda, the Angolan capital. Within a year, the coalition broke up,
leaving only the MPLA in Luanda. With more than 50,000 Cuban troops armed with Soviet weapons, the MPLA led a
successful campaign against its one-time ally, the National Front. Only with support from South Africa did UNITA survive the assault
in the jungle near Huambo.

UNITA gained strength in 1986 when the U.S. supported Savimbi with arms and funding to offset Soviet influence in the
bipolar world. However, after the fall of the Soviet Union, reports...ledked that Savimbi had ordered the assassinations of 21 dissidents.
Then, after losing the election to dos Santos in September of 1992, Savimbi violated the 1991 ceasefire with a series
of offensives against government troops. U.S. support for Savimbi deteriorated until President Clinton officially recognized the dos Santos government in
May of 1993. Even without U.S. support, Savimbi funds his rebellion by exporting diamonds, giving him the capability to continue
his guerrilla warfare for another 20 years. In Luanda, a thriving black market dominates everyday life. Although Angola has fought
for peace since the early 1960s, it is clear that some factions have not had enough. While this week’s conference
offers a chance for peace, the world must understand that UNITA will not settle for peace without victory. Sources include:
5-12-92, 5-20-93, and 9-11-94 issues of The Washington Post; 2-26-94 edition of The Economist; 5-2-91 issue of The New York
Times; 6-29-93 issue of The Christian Science Monitor; and the January 1994 edition of World Today.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1994 | Perspective

Perspective NOTES

No guns, no glory

Bill Clinton is learning something few people understand intuitively: Peace is hell. Peace is not one of those things we
love but don’t really like. There is no instinctive craving for peace. Peace, won cheaply and easily, doesn’t put a
knot in your throat or bring a tear to your eye. Peace makes us secretly nostalgic for war. There’s not
much glory in waging peace. There is goodness, and nobility, but not glory. No one ever charged a machine gun
nest waving a multilateral agreement. Steve McQueen never starred in a movie about the Treaty of Versailles.

-Joel Achenbach in The Washington Post, reprinted in the September 25, 1994, issue of The Charlotte Observer

Concerning Faludi’s “attack”

This week’s New Yorker article entitled “The Naked Citadel” quotes a retired Citadel administrator as saying, “I guess I sound
like a buffoon,” following his defense of the military college’s fourth class system. Judging from the overall tone of the
article, we’d say that was the idea. This is a barely disguised polemic that has only a passing resemblance to
what we consider to be journalism. Sensationalism sells, and the appearance of this vitriolic article assuredly reflects that recognition by
the New Yorker’s editors. But this mean-spirited, heavy-handed attack on The Citadel reflects more on its author and the New
Yorker than it does on the college it seeks to tarnish.

-An editorial in The Charleston Post and Courier concerning Susan Faludi’s article, reprinted in the September 19, 1994, issue of
The Charlotte Observer

Faludi’s rebuttal to Charleston

In my journalism as in yours, a critical reaction to a story is a sign that it has succeeded in
opening debate. But debate is ill-served when the reaction is based on an intentional misreading. And in your editorial mischaracterizing
my New Yorker article on The Citadel as a “mean-spirited, heavy-handed attack,” I feel I’ve been woefully misread. The story
was an attempt to climb inside the shoes of the male cadets and perceive their motivations. The motivations of women
attending single-sex institutions have been amply explored this way. But the male equivalent has been neglected. Why do young men
feel the need for an all-male environment? What are they seeking? Do they find it here? I concluded in the
New Yorker article that, paradoxically, the macho showmanship of a military academy grants young men the protective covering behind which
they can share a tenderhearted, nurturing relationship with each other. While The Citadel appears to be a bastion of traditional
masculinity, it offers an escape hatch from some of the burdens of masculinity imposed on men by our culture.

-Susan Faludi in the Charleston Post and Courier, reprinted in the September 19, 1994 issue of The Charlotte Observer

Vampires in Hollywood

Anne Rice is no longer turning pale at the prospect of Tom Cruise as Lestat in Interview with the Vampire.
According to producer David Geffen, Rice was shown a version of the movie last week and is now giving the
Neil Jordan film a thumbs-up. “She loves it,” said Geffen. “The movie and the performances were beyond her wildest expectations—and,
by the way, she thought Tom was incredible.” Another draw: The producer confirms that Interview has been trimmed down to
2 hours and 40 minutes. “There were scenes that were too brutal,” says Geffen. “Some of them had to be
adjusted and even eliminated.”

-Richard Natale in the September 30, 1994 issue of Entertainment Weekly

Quote of the Week

“Domino's?!? You don’t know the number for Domino's?!?”

-a frustrated Union desk worker overheard on the phone with an obviously clueless student

CALL YOUR MOTHER.
