Che Davidsonian

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXV

MONDAY, APRIL 4, 1994

NUMBER 22

Drop/Add changes
to simplify process

By Martha Knight

Registrar Polly Griffin, faculty department chairs, and the SGA Council on Academic Affairs have worked to create a new registration
system that they hope will alleviate long drop/add lines on the first day of fall classes.

When students receive their registration materials on April 13, they will notice that the form for choosing classes has been
changed. An instruction sheet included in the packet will explain how to fill out the new “tree.”

Every course has been assigned a five-digit number. In completing the forms, students must use #2 pencils to fill in
the numbers for their chosen courses. A new Banner software program will then scan the sheets to assign classes.

As part of the registration process, students will receive a new identification card at no charge. Students should have the
cards made before they turn in their forms at the Registrar’s Office between April 13 and 27.

The Registrar’s Office will mail schedules to the homes of all returning students on July 18. Students may adjust their
schedules over the telephone between August 1 and 12. They can drop any course but can only add 300 and
400 level courses. Griffin says that “it would be unfair” to allow returning students to fill places in 100 and
200 level courses before incoming freshmen have a chance to go through the drop/add process during orientation.

The Registrar’s Office will not

See Drop on page 4

ON TOUR

During the high school spring breaks, many prospective students visit campus. The tour guides find that groups are composed mostly
of high school juniors; the upcoming freshmen class will visit next weekend for Decision Davidson weekend. See story about the
class of '98 on page 2.

Photo by Amy Laukkanen

Take Back
the Night

promotes
awareness

By Russ Tarver

As a crowd of 200 filtered into the 900 Room for the annual “Take Back the Night” event, every fourth
person received a “black dot” signifying the percentage of the U.S. population victimized by sexual assault.

“One in four college women and one in seven college men will be victims of sexual assault,” said junior Jo
Burrows who opened the program with a list of shocking statistics.

After junior B.J. Rudell read an original poem about a female rape victim, three Davidson students recounted their tales of
acquaintance-rape and their methods of survival.

Photo by Amy Laukkanen

Junior Jo Burrows opened the Take Back the Night event with shocking statistics about sexual assault.

The audience was spellbound as one woman described how anxiety over an experience of sexual assault put her in the
hospital with internal bleeding.

By talking openly about their experiences, the speakers urged other victims not to keep their stories locked inside. One woman
explained how telling someone her story helped her feel better about herself and deal with the emotional trauma of acquaintance-rape.

“Sexual assault changes who you are and your perception on life,” said junior Sarah Orsbon, organizer of the event. “It’s
like part of you dies or part of your best friend dies because there is no way you can get
that same person back again.”

See Night on page 3

Greek Week returns
for Easter

By Jeff Kent

After an extended absence, Greek Week will return to Davidson this spring.

Wells Black, Christy Hardison, and Alan Stump, organizers of the event, feel confident that the all-new Greek Week will present
a positive experience for everyone involved. Stump described the upcoming events as “a chance for Davidson students to get out
and do something fun while supporting a great cause at the same time.”

Friday through Sunday, the houses of Patterson Court will host a plethora of festivities. The agenda includes two days of
contests and games on Thursday and Friday, followed by closing ceremonies and an all-court party on Saturday.

Events on Friday and Saturday will include frisbee golf, volleyball, kickball, a greased watermelon passing contest, an obstacle course, and
a tug-of-war. Kappa Sig and SAE will sponsor a fun run on Saturday to benefit Easter Seals.

On Saturday, the houses will be judged and awarded prizes at the closing ceremonies based on the amount of money
raised by each group. The acoustic band Vertical Horizons will play from 2 to 5 p.m. Later that night, the
Patterson Court houses will throw an all-court band party with Jackopierce entertaining in Greek Week’s grand finale.

This spring’s Greek Week will be the first such event at Davidson in over five years. Dean Terry explained that
in the days before coeducation, the Greek Week was termed “Hell Week” as the all-male fraternity-oriented court engaged in all
types of wild activities. With the advent of coeducation, Greek Week changed

See Greek on page 5

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

Myers-Briggs
Does this test accurately
indicate personality? Should
the RLO continue to use it in
pairing roommates?

NEWS 2

Are you there,
God? It's me,
Nathan.

OPINIONS 4

The Kappa Sig MADD run. See page 3. Photo by Amy Laukkanen

Ice Cream Hall ties
Will and Ashlyn look at atmosphere and service. They even tested vanilla and chocolate at every local ice cream joint.

ARTS 6

for the most put-outs in a game.

SPORTS 7
