9 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 7, 1994

The scar in his arm was raised up into letters. I squinted for a moment, trying to make it out.
The word was KID. My eyes wandered back to his face. I had been entranced by his sweet disposition since
the first time we met. He was a handsome young man; he surely had many friends.

“Does your arm say ‘kid’?” I asked innocently.

“Yeah, one of my boys did it for me. It was my initiation. That was years ago.”

A sick feeling came over me as I realized this 16-year-old high school sophomore was talking about much more than
the “boys” he went to school with. His “boys” were the thugs Hollywood made movies about and talk show hosts
interviewed. I sat silent, not wanting to know any more.

Rosie Molinary

“A man at twelve was twelve. Started when I was eleven, though. Got KID on my arm when I became
the leader. Got boys all over this side of North Carolina. Don’t know how much longer I want to do
it, though.” He sat back, calm and collected, as my mind raced. The irony of the word KID as his
initiation struck me. The entrance into a gang left him anything but a child. He gave up his childhood to
play with guns and drugs and wear the colors of the street.

A second realization came upon me. As the twelve-year-old leader of a gang, he was a mere puppet. The people
he trusted to become the family he never had were using him as their pawn; the police forces could not
discipline a twelve-year-old boy the way they would discipline a twenty-year-old man. They were beating the system in many ways.

I chose my next words carefully. “What do you mean, you don’t know how much longer you want to do
it? It’s not a club you sign up for.”

“No, it’s not. But I figure the next kid I have, I’ll be able to move on.”

Those words sunk in painfully. With all the devastating teenage pregnancy problems in our country, here I was sitting with
a young man who was counting on his next child to take him away from a life of crime. It
was too much for me.

“You already have a child?” I asked.

“I did. She died.”

The bell rang then and he got up and left for class. I stared at nothing a lot that day.
At twenty, I suddenly felt childish and naive. The worst thing I’d probably dealt with on a daily basis was
getting out of bed when I was still sleepy. And here, in just a short instant, I met someone who
should have been worrying about proms, but who had murders to plan, drugs to deal, and infants to bury.

There isn’t any concrete answer to solve problems like these that are plaguing our streets now. But if you ever
get a free hour or the inclination, please volunteer at a high school and make some friends. They could use
someone who is interested in them as more than a scapegoat.

I enjoyed reading Rosie Molinary’s article from two weeks ago, “Ideal Living is Possible,” but honestly, I can’t agree with
her thesis. I, like her, am an optimist who tries always to seek the good, even if this good is
hidden under layers of bad. In this instance, though, I think she simplifies the issue too much. She explained many
problems her old public high school has, such as murders and guns, and how lucky we are at Davidson.

Money is the issue. Most students at Davidson are conscientious enough to volunteer in the community. If we remember this
type of charity and giving spirit when we graduate, we can make a difference to many people in the world.
We can try to make things a little better in the world.

I guess my biggest problem with Molinary’s argument is that she fails to analyze why our school is practically “ideal.”
First, most of the students here come from affluent families. Second, the admissions staff is careful to weed out all
the hoodlums and crazy people. For the most part, we are all pretty normal young adults with good backgrounds. Why
is our Davidson world such a nice place? For several obvious reasons: We are the good people. We have the
bucks to provide hired men with Suzuki jeeps, guns, and official-looking blue suits. These blue-suited men drive around and look
for the bad people, who are looking to steal from us, the good people. How do our blue-suited men know
who the bad people are? They search for people who look poor and don’t dress like the rest of us.
Because our good blue-suited men do such a great job and have an eye for spotting riffraff, we rarely even
see the scummy, bad crooks who try to steal our money.

Thus, Molinary’s statement, “The concept is achievable” is false. She says, “We have come very close to emulating [a perfect
world] here.” Sadly to say, this world could never be achieved because most crimes, sadness, and strife stem from economic
imbalances that we just don’t have to face at Davidson. Those who pay over $20,000 a year to make it
wonderful. This money provides us with top professors who probe our minds, landscapers who disallow flowers to die or grass
to grow too high, laundry people who keep our clothes fresh and clean, and cooks who prepare our meals. For
the most part, we are content because we don’t have anything to complain about. The only way we could remain
in the world Molinary encourages is if we were students for the rest of our lives and remained not to
be forced to face these issues.

I would agree with her up to a point that the typical Davidson student does not truly know how brutal,
cruel, and potentially dangerous the world is. Most of us here are naive, so I understand why Molinary is trying
to make us more aware of the reality that we may face after graduation. Molinary calls Davidson “ideal in many
ways” and encourages us to try to recreate this world once we leave Davidson. I understand her optimism, but I
think her idealism is a bit gullible. I agree that we should take the values that Davidson encourages, such as
honesty and integrity, and go out into the world and do what is moral and right.don’t have money always want
it from those who do. We are just lucky enough that we don’t have to see these people on a
daily basis. Unless all the wealth is distributed equally (which it never will be), there will constantly be turmoil and
strife in the world. Though we live in a nice, safe environment on a pretty campus, we need to take
off our blinders and realize that our school is wonderful because we (or our parents) are within the boundaries of
Davidson. Just think—our blue-suited men could keep crooks out of our sight forever. No, that can’t happen. We must move
on. We can’t hide from the evil people forever. I am not advocating that we leave Davidson with a feeling
of paranoia or depression. On the contrary, we should try to make the world a better place. We can take
our morals and idealism and try to be honest people who positively affect others. But we must be aware that
our abundance of financial resources is the basis for what makes Davidson a “perfect” world. Self-interest lies at the core
of our political problems.

W-2 continued from page 8

What he fails to realize is the dissatisfaction among the people with the government that did not provide a satisfactory
standard of living for its citizens, and that this dissatisfaction was intensified with the disproportional distribution of wealth between government
officials and the citizens. Communism did not collapse because it was a “philosophy of mediocrity... which would be satisfied if
the gap between rich and poor were narrowed so that everyone would be poor, and nobody succeeded,” as Gullan so
naively puts it. If communism had given its citizens a standard of living comparable to the modern industrialized countries, it
would still exist today. I am in no way implying that a revolution is imminent. But the issue of the
poor and the homeless must be addressed with more authority and monetary support by the government. The government does need
to teach the poor to avoid homelessness, but many people have fallen through the cracks—they are my focus. Gullan, unaware,
has communicated that he holds a subjective view of society. He accommodates his theories to his own standpoint. Furthermore, in
my article I differentiated unemployment and homelessness but addressed only the second. Gullan proposed a solution to the first as
an alternative to my article. Of course, I uphold agents preventing homelessness, but at this point, it must be addressed
with authority by the government. He needs to ask why we should complain about the gap between rich and poor.
He complained about laws that limit his “freedom.” He identified homelessness as “this... problem everyone seems to talk about.” Does
he care that the saxophone player in the subway station knows nothing about “seasoned investments”? Probably not. Or perhaps that
man is just too far at the other end of the gap for Gullan to see. Another egocentric is the
last person to whom we should listen about social remedies. Does self-interest not already lie at the core of our
political problems? The question at hand is whether housing is a human right or not. I believe that it is.
No one should die from hypothermia just because it’s cold outside. No one should have to sleep on a subway
where homeless people are doused with gasoline and burned to death. I was at a funeral for a victim of
this kind of “insanity” when I made the decision to fight for housing rights. Think about it and make the
decision for yourself.

Rob King

Business as usual

“The business of America is business.” After reading Bill Gullan’s article last week entitled “Teach the poor to bake,” I
immediately thought of a quote that I heard in my public speaking class last week. Rather than addressing Gullan’s sensationalistic
personal attack upon Kim Kreiling, I would like to reflect briefly upon the nature of capitalism in America. As an
economic system, the efficiency of capitalism is unparalleled. Capitalism utilizes a human’s basic orientation toward increasing individual prosperity and channels
it toward increasing prosperity first at the company level, and then at the national level. When the nation as a
whole prospers, each individual prospers. On the surface, such a view is wonderful, but does it reflect reality? I do
not claim to know the answer to this question. Some people benefit from a strong economy; some people still suffer.
Some people are altruistic and give to charities; some people couldn't care less. Some people take advantage of the welfare
system; some people have legitimate need. Given the complexity of this situation, I would like to focus only upon one
word—compassion. Webster’s defines compassion as “a feeling of deep sympathy and sorrow for someone struck by misfortune, accompanied by a
desire to alleviate the suffering.” Even though Gullan’s title suggests a constructive approach to helping the poor, he never really
talks about it, which leads me to believe that he doesn’t really have “a desire to alleviate the suffering” of
those with less prosperity than himself. Very few humans can have this desire on a continual basis. This sluggishness to
help others, which I’m sure we have all experienced, is the greatest fault of capitalism. Even when I have extra
money, do I necessarily use it to help others who have legitimate need? If I am being honest, my response
is no, not necessarily. So, from where does such compassion come? I am sure that Gullan would agree that it
does not come from government. Along with other religious traditions, Christianity places an emphasis upon having compassion for other people.
For this reason, Christian churches in this country spend many hours and dollars helping the poor. Christianity should, thus, serve
as the moral conscience of America. The problem with such a statement is that not everyone in America is a
Christian, and most of the Christians are inconsistent in applying principles of compassion to their everyday lives. This being the
case, I would like to close with a quote by Martin Luther King, Jr., which reflects the necessity of some
government intervention. “It may be true that morality cannot be legislated, but behavior can be regulated. The law may not
change the heart, but it can restrain the heartless.” Only through such a “meddling government” will we be able to
say that the real business of America is compassion.
