THE DAVIDSONIAN ___ ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, AUGUST 29, 1994 11

Regional sensations Hootie & the Blowfish to perform

By Rosie Molinary

On Thursday, September 1, the Davidson College Union will present Atlantic Records recording artists Hootie & the Blowfish. The concert,
free for all Davidson students with a valid Davidson ID and five dollars for the public, will begin at 9
p.m. on Richardson Field. The Union hopes that this activity will be a good way to welcome new and returning
students.

Hootie & the Blowfish, coming off the July 5th release of their Atlantic debut album “Cracked Rear View,” are perhaps
best known for the song currently receiving airplay, “Hold My Hand.” This song, which the band refers to as their
“save the world” song, features David Crosby on supporting vocals. The message is simple. Lead singer Darius Rucker insists, “It
just says stop whining about how bad things are and get up and do something.”

Known for his commanding stage presence, Mark Bryan plays lead guitar and sings backing vocals. Darius Rucker, with his charismatic
and soulful voice, sings lead vocals and plays rhythm guitar. Bassist Dean Felber and drummer Jim “Soni” Sonefeld also chip
in on backup vocals.

Hootie and the Blowfish

Founded in 1986 while the four band members studied at the University of South Carolina, Hootie and the Blowfish took
their name from some friends’ nicknames. They played cover songs of bands like R.E.M. until going professional in 1989 and
beginning to record independent releases. Their latest release, produced in Los Angeles by Don Gehman (R.E.M., John Mellencamp, Bruce Hornsby),
features 11 original folk rock pieces that blend 60’s rock, blues, country, bluegrass, and R & B.

The band has succeeded because of its incredible gift for introspection and sincerity in examining the past or complex issues
and emotions. Their music is personal—exploring relationships, negative behavior, deaths of loved ones, or social issues. They are also fun,
combining dynamic per-

Young explores new, contemporary territory

Young continued from page 10

the aggressively sinister “Change Your Mind,” a hypnotic diatribe on the delusions of love. “Protecting you from this/ Must be
the one you love/ Must be the one whose magic touch can change your mind,” Young tosses out sarcastically. With
its stern, forceful guitar work and eerie chorus, this song is a classic.

There are a couple of songs on the album that I don’t really enjoy. “Western Hero” seems to me an
overly sentimentalized ballad reminiscent of “Unknown Legend” off of Harvest Moon, while “Blue Eden” is filled with too much distortion
for my tastes. Oddly enough, despite the presence of a few slightly hopeful songs, the overall mood of this album
is a dark one. Most of the songs are played in a minor key, which lends itself to an often
foreboding tone. Crazy Horse is in top form, and the arrangements are

Frosh survive Granola

continued from page 10

jaws gaping and her crew’s legs shaking, admitted to having never run that section of the rapid in strong waters.

The trip began with some rain, but in many ways this brought the crews closer together. Jenn Schuetz and Rob
Clemens found that this was actually one of the most fun and rewarding parts of the trip. As 12 people
huddled under a tarp to cook dinner and sing songs, Jenn and Rob actually found the rain a welcome surprise.

Although there were some adversities—blisters, sweat, rain—Ed Daugherty assures that it is nothing close to an Outward Bound experience. There
are many treats and surprises along the way. In the middle of a hard day’s hike a group might encounter
a Ben and Jerry’s delivery from a logistics crew, or their trip leader might pull out a pack of Snickers
bars at some unexpected time.

Illuminated by the headlights of vans, different crews enacted parodies of their trips and skits on the last night of
Odyssey. Everything from fashion shows to rap music were offered.

September 1 - October 5, 1994
- Oct. 5, 1994.
13 - December 14, 1994
13, 7-9 p.m.
November 18 -

Ansel Adams
The Man Who Captured the Earth’s Beauty (circulated by the Mint Museum of Art), William H. Van Every, Jr. Gallery,
January 19 - Feb. 28,1995

Annual Faculty Exhibition, William H. Van Every, Jr. Gallery
Herb Jackson: A Body of Work
Cort Savage: New Sculpture
Russ Warren: What is the Opposite of a Horse
Patrick Donley: Cyclical Nature, Edward M. Smith Gallery, Sept. 7
* Opening reception for all four artists Wednesday, Sept. 7, 7-9 p.m.

Glenn Dasher: Sculpture, William H. Van Every, Jr. Gallery, October
Daniel Sutherland: Resulting Empty Wish, Edward M. Smith Gallery, October 13 - November 15, 1994
* Opening reception for Dasher and Sutherland Thursday, October

Dale Kennington: Time and Place, Edward M. Smith Gallery, December 14, 1994
Senior Exhibitions, Edward M. Smith Gallery, Spring Semester

Arnold Mesches: Selections from the Anomie Series, William H. Van Every, Jr. Gallery, March 13 - April 14, 1995
* Reception for the artist Thursday, March 23, 1995, 7-9 p.m.

Neil Young's new album is skillful, filled with Young’s characteristically strident, distinct guitar work. Young continues to explore new ground
and to change with the times, which have left his former bandmates Crosby, Stills & Nash behind. The lyrics are
highly personal and direct, and Young successfully uses his music as a vehicle for his rage. Rather than whine or
complain about the evils of society, Neil simply states the facts. And on Sleeps With Angels, that’s enough.

Hootie and the Blowfish have moved from a small Columbia cover band to a national sensation. Their video for “Hold
My Hand” is soon to hit MTV and VH-1. September will see them on Jay Leno’s "Tonight Show." Don’t miss
Thursday night’s concert. It will be a fun, free show featuring talented, down-to-earth guys who are on the edge of
success in the music world.

The Davidsonian is pleased to announce a new advice column written by Terry Buffington. Letters will be welcomed from everyone
in the Davidson community, and a few will be answered and published weekly. Letters should be directed to:

Dear Terry
c/o The Davidsonian
Box 219
Davidson, NC 28036

or left in the envelope on the door of the Davidsonian office. This week we are reprinting the last Dear
Terry column from the paper Terry worked for prior to signing on with the Davidsonian.

Dear Terry,
I have hemorrhoids, I’m balding, I am a kleptomaniac, I just broke up with my girlfriend, and the refrigerator repairman
saw me naked this morning. What’s the first thing I should do to get back on track with my life
and my career?
Sincerely,
Snowballing Troubles

Dear Snowballing,
The first thing we should always say to ourselves every day is, “I can, I really can.” If you convince
yourself things are going your way, it’s the best way to get the ball rolling toward a better future. So
be yourself, steal some Preparation H and some Rogaine, forget about your girlfriend and call that repairman tomorrow, even if
your fridge isn’t on the blink. A positive attitude is what you need, friend, unless, of course, you decide to
escape your sensible problems through heavy and constant drug use, which is also an option.
Love,
Terry

Dear Terry,
My roommate is getting married next month, and I can’t stop feeling lonely because I haven’t yet found “Mr. Right.”
I’m starting to antagonize my roommate without meaning to because I’m jealous that she’s so settled in her life. How
can I stop?
Sincerely,
Miss Wrong

Dear Miss Wrong,
I had the same situation when I was young and starting out on my own. I was getting married and
my roommate did everything she could to make my life difficult as I got ready for the wedding. There’s a
special corner of hell for people like you. Quit being so selfish and help your poor pregnant roommate plan the
biggest day of her life. Send her your positive energy when you’re around her, and keep your loneliness locked up
and festering inside of you. For the next month, her feelings, not yours, should be the priority. Remember, there’s a
reason men are attracted to her and not you. And always keep smiling!
Love,
Terry

Terry is a licensed psychoanalyst new to the Davidson campus with years of experience in emotional therapy and group pederasty.

Creative? Write for Arts & Living. Call Rachel - 6629.
