8. THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS _ Friday, April 29, 1994

Oh, how things have changed

As the final chords of David Bowie’s “Changes” float out my down-the-hill window on the latest in a string of glorious afternoons, I cannot help but reflect on the academic year that has (almost) passed. This was my Sophomore year; the one during which I declared a major, did my water credit, and rushed for my fraternity. Although the momentous and well-documented changes that have occurred at Davidson since August are worth discussing, I have decided to deal more with the mundane, universal changes that have affected everyone over the course of this year.

1. August - Maybe I’ll make some new friends in the Freshman class!
   May - Why do people younger than me make fun of me?

2. August - All of my clothes are ready. I could lay out my outfits for the entire week!
   May - All of my clothes are scattered about the region. I could lay out my outfits for the week if everyone on the hall went out and left their doors unlocked.

3. August - I am looking forward to spending quality time with my roommate!
   May - I am looking forward to spending quality time pummeling my roommate.

4. August - I can’t wait to go down to the house and eat with the guys!
   May - I can’t wait to pick cartilage out of my chicken with the guys at the house.

5. August - The room is clean. I feel like hanging out in it.
   May - The room is disgusting. I feel like hanging out the window so I can breathe.

6. August - The Braves are playing well, but won’t win the Series.
   May - The Braves are playing well, but won’t win the Series.

7. August - I can afford to go out to lunch.
   May - I can afford to go out to lunch at Exxon if I put it on the card.

8. August - All of my tapes and CDs are alphabetized and in their cases.
   May - My Twisted Sister CD is in its case.

9. August - I consider my romantic standards high.
   May - If she has a pulse, tell her to call me.

10. August - I hope to do better this year.
    May - I hope to do better next year.

This has been a year characterized by achievements, disappointments, and predictably poor hygiene. It has been a blast from beginning to end, although I hope I will do better academically next year. Anyhow, have a great summer, everyone. Good luck to you Seniors and Deans of Students, and everyone please watch as the Phillies rise in the standings. Finally, in the words of that great political leader Jesse Jackson, “Keep hope alive,” and have a fun summer.

Brad Herndon & Holt Vaughan

Perry Mason you are not.

On April 20, 1994, Davidson College was privileged and honored to have the admirable Secretary of the Navy John Dalton speak to us in Love Auditorium. As everyone well knows, his time is valuable and he does not have much of it to give up. However, on this night, he sacrificed some of his time to come and speak to our student body. His message was simple but powerful: “We can all be what we want to be if we set our mind to it.” The speech spoke to me, as a student trying to figure out what I’m going to do with the rest of my life. He spoke of the importance of integrity and honor. He defined leadership in terms of trust and courage. I was moved by the valuable lesson: truth and honor really are more important than anything else in the world. He made me proud to be part of Davidson and the honor code that we have. He commended Dean Terry for facilitating an environment that fosters such development of character. He commended the students of Davidson for making the wise decision to come to such a fine academic institution. Finally, he repeatedly thanked us, the college, for inviting him to speak. (Which, incidentally, I thought was rather ironic, since he is one of the most powerful men in the country right now. Maybe it’s just me, but I thought that maybe we could have been thanking him more by showing him the respect of having more people in attendance—but that’s beside the point.) After he delivered his message, the floor opened up for questions. The questions represented Davidson well. They were thought out and reflected knowledge of current events. I was amazed by the opportunity to be sitting three rows from a man of such prestige. I had never been more impressed with the various opportunities that Davidson has to offer.those moments where I forgot about stress for a while and was simply very, very proud to be a part of the Davidson experience.

See Dalton on page 9

Behind four years of joking hide two sensitive men.

Nathan continued from page 7

People that you’re drunk. Hug your friends. Kiss your parents. Know the rules to at least twenty drinking games. Say “I love you” to five people and mean it. Always have a sober driver. Get drunk before noon five times. Crash closed parties. See the sunrise seven times. Listen to me tell my Boomsday story. Ask someone out whom you’ve always wanted to, even if you’re sure they’ll say no. Go to twenty concerts. Go to the bathroom in every stall on campus. Regret doing things, but don’t wish for them to be undone. Watch Mystery Science Theater 3000 after experimenting. Don’t be afraid to vomit. Be interesting, but don’t try too hard. Strive for a type-B personality. Most importantly: have fun.

Sorry if that got a bit too Robert Fulghum-esque. I’m within one month to graduation, so forgive me if I wax nostalgic a bit. I just want each and every one of you to be able to look back on your college years and think happy thoughts. In ten years you aren’t going to remember that ten-page paper, but you will remember driving to the grocery store at nine in the morning to get malt liquor, doing solo naked water slides in front of fifty SAE’s and their dates, going out in a dress, or telling some girl just how attractive you think she is.

I had a wonderful year. I had a wonderful college career. I don’t know what the future holds for me. I don’t even know where I’m going to be living in a month, but I’m not worried. I know that wherever I end up, I'll be happy there. If I get super bored maybe I’ll even come back here someday and tell you my life story.

I’ve learned many things over the past year, some of which are about women. And if there is one piece of knowledge which I can share with my male brethren, it is this: if girls ignore you, if they spit on your face, if they think you are crude and disgusting, all hope is not lost. Do one simple thing and women will finally say “Hi” to you occasionally and won’t always resist when you try to engage them in conversation. My secret? Whine, whine, whine. You may not become the most popular thing on campus, but at least they'll know who you are.

Again, I thank you all for reading my stuff so loyally. It really makes me feel good. Your compliments keep me going. To quote Sally Field, “You like me! You really like me!” Well, some of you do, anyway.

Farewell, Davidson. I’m sure you’ll do just fine without me.

Chris continued from page 6

Male banter abounds, everyone knows that we are glad. Girlfriends call, and everyone is glad for that, too. None of them will come over either. By now we are drunk, and girlfriends, like boyfriends, tend to be afraid of their belligerent partners. After they hang up, the banter picks up a notch. It is a scene familiar in the true sense of the word. We are comfortable because we are a family. We know everyone's weaknesses and, more importantly, strengths. We know all of our sexual exploits, and to a greater degree, failures. We know our GPAs, our parents, our sisters and brothers. We know everything about each other. And we will part soon.

"Cheese" is not the word for the expression, "but we will never really be apart." "Velveeta" is the word. And no one will say anything like that. But after graduation, we will hug, and there will be a sense of sadness. More importantly, there should be a sense of glory. Glory that, one, some of us are graduating. (And even more of us may.) Glory that, two, we are friends. Glory that, three, we are family.

But that does not matter when Rod runs back into the bathroom to puke, and Shores and Freer can't stop laughing. In fact, they are still laughing at Dave, who made the same run a little earlier, right after I made him drink a Flaming Dr. Pepper. Some of us are studying, and no one can understand why. Dorks. Smarter than we are, but dorks nonetheless. It is something we have always resisted. And to calm the fears of our parents, it is not because we couldn't drink alone—given the right circumstances, we could. It is because we don't want anyone to miss anything. A good story is always best experienced first-hand. Especially with a friend. (Velveeta! Pronounced yoo-RE-kaa!)

So, to my friends in the senior class, I bid you farewell. I know that I will not be better off without you. I am, however, better off because of you. Yes, Harrison was the naked one, but Wesley talked him into it.

The Davidsonian Assistant section editors, advertising salespersons, and circulation staff are needed for the fall. Please call Leigh, Alex, or Mandy -2148 or -2149. ©