THE DAVIDSONIAN BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

Letterman hosted Hootie and the Blowfish on Friday. But before ABC, the band interviewed at Davidson.

What do you want to talk about?
Soni: Great soccer teams of the 1990s.

How about musical influences?
Soni: Name one, everybody name one.
Darius: Al Green, Otis Redding.
Dean: Wow. Wow was a great band in '72.
Mark: Wham! Bow Wow Wow!
Darius: Great video. She was one of the hottest human beings ever to walk the face of this Earth.
Dean: Led Zeppelin, Van Halen.
Soni: REO Speedwagon, Kiss.
Mark: The Police, Pete Townshend.

The main thing about influences is that it has to be understood that we all like a lot of music, which is why a lot of different things can be heard in our own music.
Dean: Our current influences are so many. We could sit here for an hour and list them and still go home and say, "Oh, I forgot that one."

What are your interests outside of music?
Darius: We golf all the time.
Mark: We’re a golf rock band.
Darius: I’m the best of the four of us.
Darius: Drinking, going out in Five Points is a big hobby for Dean and me.
Mark: Soni and I have dogs that we like to play around with. I have a Rottweiler mixed with a Basset Hound. His name is Ripken. He’s named after Cal Ripken, the Baltimore Orioles baseball player.
Soni: Risa is my dog; she got her name from the Spanish word because she always makes us laugh. She’s a lab.

When you were kids, what did you want to grow up and do?
Darius: I wanted to be a rock star, but when I got a little older, I decided I wanted to be a sports announcer. My life-long dream was to be the quarterback for the Miami Dolphins, but I knew that wasn’t going to happen.
Mark: I wanted to be a broadcaster, too, but I always wanted to be a rock star. Then I wanted to be a basketball player, but once I figured out how to play guitar, I figured that was a little more realistic. I took a few lessons at first, but most of what I know I learned just from playing.
Soni: A professional athlete always had to be first. Soccer mostly, but when you're a kid, you play every sport, so anything would have been nice.
Dean: Sports first, but when I was ten, I decided I wanted to be in a big band like Led Zeppelin, Van Halen, or Kiss.

Where do you want to go with Hootie and the Blowfish?
Darius: We’re happy to be where we are, but it’s not where we want to end up. I want us to be happy, but never content because when we get content, we feel like we’ve done everything we can do and if we ever get like that, we’ve lost the point.
Mark: I want it so that we can keep making music. Everything else we do is based towards that goal.
Dean: That’s the bottom line, making this our career and making the career last. I’m not content with being here, making it big and getting out. I want a smooth transition, writing music for 20 years and the touring and everything that comes with it.
Mark: Our goal is to be on Ricki Lake.
Darius: I’m in love with Ricki Lake. I want to date Ricki Lake. Don't put that in the article.
Soni: That’s how you can hook up with her. She’ll read the article and give you a call.

What was making the video like?
Darius: It was a lot more fun than I thought it would be.
Dean: It was a little party. It’s like getting 30 friends and family members together and going out to a barn and having fun all day.
Mark: It was like John Denver.
Darius: Every now and again, we had to get out and sweat really hard and put make-up on.

What’s on your minds now?
Dean: Things are great. Martin’s on tonight, and then we’re on Letterman tomorrow, and then college football on Saturday, and then professional football on Sunday.
Soni: So there’s a lot of good TV.
Darius: Life is just incredible. The only thing that sucks is that there is a baseball strike right now.

How do you feel when people make fun of the band’s name?
Darius: It’s a name to be made fun of; there’s nothing we can do about it.
Mark: If we were serious about it, we would have changed it long ago.
Darius: I cringe when people call me Hootie. That’s the worst thing anyone could do. I hate that passionately.

Hootie and the Blowfish
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994

HOOTIE AND THE BLOWFISH LIVE IN JOHNSTON GYM
Photo by Brandon Clarke

Sitting in the back of the band bus, all four members of Hootie and the Blowfish seemed calm. Davidson was their first stop in their...New tour bus, and they weren’t quite sure what to make of the forty-foot monstrosity when only two of them own cars. Beyond the jokes, the X-Force comic books, the push-ups while we all watched Martin, and the funny stories about Columbia and all of the local hangouts, a serious side could be noted. I was sitting with four guys who loved life but knew also how much pain was involved in living it. The very title of their debut release holds strong meaning. "Cracked Rear View" comes from a John Hiatt song. “It’s about looking at life in the past, from the perspective of a cracked rearview mirror. We felt that the description applied since the album is the culmination of the last four years on the road, really just a page ripped from our travel log and put into song,” Mark explains. Every song in their show told a story, taught a lesson, or helped them heal in some way. "Hold My Hand" was written by Soni, who says, “It’s a very optimistic song which I guess is a terrible thing to be in the 90s. That’s what I get for growing up in the 70s.” In "Hannah Jane," Darius sang about his best friend’s wedding. “It’s me acknowledging that our relationship will never be the same now that he has got other people to worry about,” he offers. Darius soul-searched in other songs, too. In "Let Her Cry,” he reversed gender roles to explore his own negative behavior. "I’m Going Home" came after the recent death of his mother. “I needed some kind of emotional outlet. It was a difficult period for me. I kept asking God why he would take somebody so young. It was really confusing for someone like me who grew up with strong religious belief,” he explains. 

With all of their music, their direction is towards honesty. Hootie and the Blowfish will succeed because they are honest with themselves, with others, and—most importantly—with their music. For them, success will never be a platinum record or a fully-booked tour. Success is trueness: crying on stage, laughing on stage, and always knowing that there is room for growth. Their approach is sincere; never become vain or bitter because there will always be others who are greater or lesser performers. Instead, they challenge themselves and their happiness comes when they achieve even the smallest success.

How did you meet?
Darius: The Dorm. Dean, Mark, and I were in a dorm together. Soni was in an athletic dorm, so we didn’t meet him until later. He was in another band.
Mark: Soni and I met through class. I knew he was a drummer in a band.
Soni: He looked up to me then. I was his mentor.
Dean: Mark and I went to high school together, but I didn’t really know where he was going. We were talking one day and figured it out.

Are you staying in Columbia?
Everyone: Yes!
Darius: The rumors are grossly wrong.

How does releasing a song work?
Dean: We sit down with about ten people from the label and everyone decides. They have a marketing strategy where they decide on the single. If we said absolutely not, they wouldn’t do it, but we’d have to have a good reason. We know what we want, and they know what they want; we go from there.

What do you like about the fame right now, and what do you hate?
Darius: What fame? Maybe other people see this fame thing, but I don’t. I can walk through a mall in Columbia and not have anyone talk to me.
Mark: I like that our music is obviously starting to relate to people.
Soni: I was at a carwash, and I had a picture of the four of us with President Clinton in my hand, and you can see me, Darius, and Clinton, and the guy points at Darius and says, “Isn’t that Hootie? The guy from Hootie and the Blowfish? How did you get that?” Classic.

Do you have a pattern for songwriting?
Mark: Everyone brings in ideas and we put songs together.
Dean: We all try to write on our own and then we get together.
Darius: Jam. It’s great fun. It doesn’t happen enough because we just don’t have time.

Any closing thoughts?
Soni: I want to tell the people at Davidson that they have a wonderful school with a beautiful soccer stadium. I wish the Final Four would be here every year.
Mark: Spread the Hootie word. And thanks a lot.
Paul Graham (road manager): There’s a certain togetherness at Davidson that we’ve all noticed in the last few hours. You are all in this together, even though you have different interests or different friends. I haven’t seen that in other places. There's a real strong sense of togetherness here; I admire that greatly.

BY ROSIE MOLINARY