OPINIONS __ 8. MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1994

A Different Perspective: Ike Bailey

How important is the Confederate flag?

The Confederate Flag seems to be a major source of contempt for the majority of people in the African-American community.
At the same time, it seems to represent a source of pride for a majority of Southern white-Americans. I cannot
speak intelligently on the latter view, but I have a few views on the former.

First of all, I am constantly told by supporters of the flag that slavery was not the central issue of
the Civil War. Granted, there were many reasons for the war. It can be reasoned that the war was an
economic one, that it was fought for freedom of choice, that it was fought because of pride. It can even
be reasoned that slavery was brought up as an issue in this war simply as a military tactic, as the
North’s way of trying to undermine the morale of the Confederate soldiers, making them look like “bad guys” for defending
such an institution.

I, and the majority of the African-American race, have yet to be convinced that slavery was not the central issue.
After all, that flag is supposed to represent great Southern heritage. The only heritage this symbol reminds an entire race
of people of is the worst stage in their history that they had to endure. It reminds us of the
pure hate that has been shown towards us since we arrived: "obsolete farm machinery.” How can any African-American be expected
to want or respect a symbol that represents the killing of over 100 million of his brothers and sisters? Should
we just accept it now simply because we are over a hundred years removed from slavery?

What if the Confederacy had won? Would I be here now, trying to further my education, or would I be
out in Mr. Charlie’s field with the shackles on my feet, afraid of being whipped again? Or would my parent’s
generation, or their parent’s generation, have been the last one to endure such hell? With this realization, how can anyone
not understand the contempt that an African-American would have towards a symbol of such an institution?

It has been referred to as Southern Pride. Well, I am sure that there are millions of southern African-Americans who
are not filled with pride when in the presence of that flag. It reminds us of the fact that our
ancestors were chained and whipped as if they were animals. It reminds us of the belief that J.D. Adler, the
grand dragon of the KKK, and his many followers hold, that we are now nothing more than "obsolete farm machinery."

In my mind, the Confederate flag can breed nothing more than hate, contempt, and fear. Why is it considered with
such pride in the eyes of so many people? Does it have anything to do with the fact that that
institution killed off a few thousand or more Negroes before it was all said and done?

I did not write this article to get rid of the bumper stickers, the t-shirts, and the flags hanging out
of windows. I don’t believe we should ever get to the point that we are not allowed to speak our
minds or exercise freedom of choice. But I also recognize the fact that the flying of that flag over my
home state of South Carolina shows an utter lack of respect for an entire community. Besides a lack of respect,
I believe it says much more about that state, and this country as a whole.

CHAOS by Brian Shuster

“Well Mr. Wilkins, we were able to save your life, but I'm afraid we had to give you a heart
from a duck...and a duck’s kidneys...and, well, look, I’ve got to be honest...”

© 1993 Daily Planet Features

Ken May - Open your mind and go country.

This past weekend I did something I thought I’d never do in my entire life. I mean, we’re talking one
of those hell-freeze-over kind of things. A few months ago, such an action would have certainly merited wearing a paper
bag over my sorry head for the remainder of the semester. Yes, I confess. I attended a Travis Tritt concert.
God have mercy or strike me down where I stand.

For the uninitiated, Travis Tritt is one of the biggest stars of country music. Now, I know what you’re saying:
that nasal twang, those sappy lyrics, and, of course, the horrible steel guitar. That’s exactly what I was saying not
too long ago. In fact, there was almost nothing I hated more than listening to country music. Until one weekend
road trip.

My friend and I were heading to Pittsburgh, about a six-hour drive from home. He was driving and, of course,
the only thing he listened to was country ... the entire trip. You can imagine my vehement protestations, “Let’s change
the channel. Let’s take turns picking the music. How about some peace and quiet?” No go. He wasn’t budging. So,
I suffered every darn mile of road we covered.

But then a funny thing happened. On the way home, I noticed myself singing the words to an unknown tune.
Lord help me! It was a country song. What was happening?to me? Was I being brainwashed by the legions of
country fans across the nation? Yes, indeed. And by the time I realized what was happening, it was too late.
I had lost all free will. I was a country junkie. Of course, it doesn’t stop there. Country music has
a way of growing on you. First, you can sing along to a few songs. Then you buy a CD
or two. The next thing you know, all the stations in your car are preset to the Rebel, KIX 96,
and Young Country. Finally, you find yourself at Blockbuster Pavilion for a Travis Tritt concert. Someone once said the road
to hell is a slippery one. How true! Anyway, my point in all this: Don’t close your mind to things
you don’t know about or haven’t tried. Look at me. Once a hated foe; now a tried and true hick,
redneck, or whatever. Something you may not have ever heard about could become the passion of your life. There are
so many undiscovered gems out there awaiting each one of us. And wouldn’t it really be a tragedy if we
passed by something wonderful because we were never willing to give it a second chance? So, my advice is to
keep your eyes, your ears, and most importantly, your mind open. Talk to somebody new. Try something you’d never think
of doing. Don’t change the channel when you hear a country song. Now, I’m not trying to brainwash you into
another country fan or anything like that. But it would be nice to have someone to go to the next
Travis Tritt concert with!

Rosie Molinary

I want to be a millionaire. His letter came the other day. The last few words stood out to me—“I
am so proud of you.” I sat for a moment, surprised. And then remembering the many years of childhood we
spent together, I felt a wave of guilt come over me. It was in sixth grade that the real sadness
started in his life. He called a couple of days after Christmas to say his dad had been murdered, a
drug deal gone bad. A few years later, the call came when his mom was getting abused by his step-father.
He whispered to me, hoping they’d forget he was home. In high school, the phone calls stopped. Instead, I would
open the door at some late hour and he would be standing there with a grim look on his face,
waiting for some sort of love. Those days, he spent a lot of nights on our couch and ate a
lot of dinners with us for holidays. We’d wash dishes afterwards and he’d always look at me and say earnestly,
“Isn’t dad great” or “Doesn’t mom’s new haircut look nice?” I’d smile, the horrible phone call from sixth grade replaying
faintly in the back of my mind. Our junior year was worse for him. His mom divorced and began her
search for self. He’d come over at night and frown, blaming himself for his mother’s unhappiness. “She’s been raising me
since she was fifteen. Of course, she hasn’t had a chance to find herself.” I could only sit and shake
my head no; words would have betrayed the incredible feeling of sadness I had inside of me. Our senior year
looked up for him. Applications off to Harvard, Yale, and Williams; calls were coming in from every admissions office possible
as they desperately tried to win this bright student and state champion wrestler. It seemed he would be able to
run away from all the sadness of his childhood and adolescence. This time when he showed up at our door
the look on his face seemed etched in cold gray marble. I pulled him inside and listened as he mumbled
over and over again about his mom joining the army and leaving within the month. “She’s renting me an apartment
until I leave for school in August. She needed to do something for herself. She won’t be at my graduation.
She just needs to move on.” He was doing everything he could to forgive her, to excuse her, to justify
why he would suddenly be all alone. I sat, in silence, unsure of what I could do except offer my
family to him for the final months before he left for college. She left; off to basic training and then
Japan. He avoided the apartment as much as possible and slowly moved himself into our house. In August, I took
off for Davidson with two carloads of unnecessary trinkets and he headed for Williams with a suitcase, a comforter, $150
in cash, a few things my mom pushed on him that he didn’t want to take, and the address of
a ship somewhere on the other side of the world. This summer, we talked for an extended period. Practically brother
and sister, we had always shared so much pride in each other. I had begun to wonder, however, what his
real big picture was, where he was headed with all of his dreams. "I want to be a millionaire.” My
stomach turned at that idea and I challenged him. His response was in the letter: "When you’re six years old
and you’re laying in bed wondering if the electricity will be cut back on in the morning or if you’re
going to eat or if your shoes are going to fall apart in gym because they’re looking pretty bad; then
you decide...

See Stability on page 9
