Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1994

DAVIDSON MEN'S BASKETBALL PREVIEW

Southern Conference 1994

Wildcats aim for conference title

By Will Cobb

After enjoying one of the school’s most successful seasons in school history, the men’s basketball team looks for an even more productive season. For the first time in almost ten years, the Wildcats are favored in preseason polls to win the Southern Conference. After enjoying a 22-8 season and coming one shot away from the NCAA Tournament last March, the players made an unconditional commitment to improve on those accomplishments.

“One constant has been to improve upon already successful skills. There’s a tendency to rest on your laurels with success. This was the most productive off-season our players have had in accordance with player development,” says Head Coach Bob McKillop.

In addition to the hard work by returning players, McKillop and his staff have brought in a strong group of newcomers that should fill voids from last year’s squad. This new crop of talent adds a great deal of athleticism and strength to the team and should fit into the system nicely.

“We'll be a very similar team in style, but we will be able to generate more points from our defense with a more athletic, quicker, and stronger group of players. From a physical aspect, we have clearly improved,” says McKillop.

The Wildcats return four starters and five of the team’s top scorers. Although the lost starter was the team’s leading scorer and emotional leader Janko Narat, the absence should be more than compensated with captains Brandon “Ozone” Williams, George “Biscuit” Spain, and Chris “Cat” Alpert. Junior Jeff Anderson will keep the starting position he earned at the middle of last season while Quinn Harwood will step in as the starting power forward after playing a key reserve role last season.

Junior co-captain Chris Alpert

Look for Davidson to rely on production off the bench once again, with talented reserves at every position. Junior Mark McGuire, the team’s tallest player at 6-10, has continued to improve his game and should see considerable time off the bench. With the incorporation of the new talent, look for the Wildcats to consistently go nine to ten players deep.

See Hoops continued on page 16

By Krisy Ford

George Spain 6-8 Sr.: One of two seniors on the squad, Spain started last season at the forward position. He averaged 10.1 points a game last season and at one point led the nation in field goal percentage ending the season with a .643 average. His consistency has carried all three years while maintaining a career 59 percent field goal average. In the preseason conference polls, Spain was ranked the third best rebounder and made the list of best defensive players. “After a most productive off-season along with his commitment to becoming a better player, George could be one of the most efficient low post scorers in the conference as well as the country,” says Coach McKillop.

Tim Caldwell 6-8 Sr.: After playing three seasons, Caldwell joined the team late this season and began practicing November 13.Although he has a lot of lost time to make up for, Caldwell is expected to fill in and give temporary relief at the forward position. “Tim knows how to play and can adapt to any role the team needs,” says McKillop.

Mark McGuire 6-10 Jr.: Playing in 27 games last season, McGuire contributed some excellent minutes off the bench. He averaged 3.4 points a game and 2.3 rebounds last year. Coming on strong late in the season, McGuire made key plays that advanced the team in the Southern Conference tournament. “Mark had a very productive off-season,” says McKillop. “He has shown flashes of brilliance and is now working to convert potential into production.”

Quinn Harwood 6-9 Jr.: Starting one game at center last season and playing in all 30 outings, Harwood is one of the conference’s most versatile players. A perimeter as well as interior shooter, Harwood is also a capable ball handler. He averaged double figures in Davidson’s last ten games, scoring 19 points on five three-pointers in their 71-64 win over UNCC. He ended the season averaging 7.9 points and 4.8 rebounds per game. In preseason conference polls, Harwood was listed third as best off the bench and also made the best rebounder list. “Quinn grows leaps and bounds each year. He is a Renaissance player that will be the surprise of the conference this year,” says McKillop.

Jeff Anderson 6-4 Jr.: Anderson is considered the team’s defensive specialist. He started in 16 and played in all 30 of last season’s games. He averaged five points and 2.1 rebounds per game. Anderson made the conference best defensive player list. Although he’s not recognized for his shooting ability, Anderson has worked hard in the off-season to further develop his shot. McKillop says Anderson is “a defensive stopper. The league will have to respect his shooting ability due to his improvement.”

Brandon Williams 6-6 Jr.: After averaging 14.4 points and 6.3 rebounds as a sophomore, Williams is a candidate for conference player of the year. Williams graced almost every column of the conference preseason bests. He ranked especially high as Best All-Around Player and Best Pro Prospect. His career high came with 30 points in the tournament win over Western Carolina, but Williams also contributed 28 points on five three-pointers in Davidson’s win over N.C. State. “Brandon is on a mission. He will be the go-to guy this season,” says McKillop.

Chris Alpert 5-11 Jr.: Alpert returns for his third season as a starter, ending the season averaging 8.1 points and racking up 130 assists. In two seasons, he is already eighth in career leading assists at Davidson and is ranked second best ball-handler in conference polls. Alpert initiated the attack last season and won two games for the Cats on last-second shots. “Chris is the quarterback of this team and he sets the tone on offense and defense. He must continue to make everyone better,” says McKillop.

Eugene Jung 6-3 So.: A walk-on this season, Jung has played basketball ever since he arrived at Davidson. Jung provides solid post play. “He’s strong, aggressive,”

See Team continued on page 16.