_THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS_ MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1994

Small town U.S.A goes big city? Town meeting discusses future development that might threaten the small town charm of Davidson.

By Randy Hartwell

Students at Davidson often complain that the town is “in the middle of nowhere;” however, if new subdivisions, roads, and a burgeoning elementary school are any indication, the town will soon be on the map. At an unusually well-attended Board of Commissioners meeting at the Davidson Town Hall on Tuesday night, concerned citizens met to voice opinions on recent and future growth in the Lake Norman area.

At the meeting, the town council decided to adopt a 12-month moratorium on new subdivisions in Davidson, which will prevent construction (until October 1995) of any housing units past the approximately 1,900 that have already met zoning and plat approval. This will give bursting-at-the-seams Davidson Elementary a small reprieve from the influx of students that has forced the school to build trailers for extra classrooms. An adoptive mother of two young children cited the excellent school system as a primary reason for moving from Virginia to Davidson a year ago. “We must protect quality,” she says.

The council also decided to postpone changes to a thoroughfare plan that would both accommodate present growth and perhaps spur new growth in Davidson and Cornelius. Though the plan has been in existence since the 1970s, most town residents were unaware of intentions to build new roads in the area. Town planner Tim Keen says, “it’s just now that we’re seeing growth” that would necessitate construction of new thoroughfares.

Photo by Rob Kosiki

Recently, Davidsonians have had a taste of big city life with the unusual amount of traffic in Davidson. The moratorium on subdivisions and delay in road planning will allow time for Keen and the planning commission to “take a comprehensive look” at future transportation and land use needs in Davidson. Though Davidson students are transient residents of the town, they do make up roughly half the population. Because of this, Keen stresses the need to “involve the student body—We definitely have to have their participation.”

Get the gossip about how your class

By Sarah Teachworth

The first few grueling weeks of Davidson’s infamous workload led hundreds of exhausted students eagerly to anticipate last week’s fall break. Students spent their extra time in different ways.

Homeward Bound

The most popular destination seemed to be home. After tiring (and often expensive) road and plane trips, many freshmen discovered that their new homes were at college. “It was nice to see my family, but by Friday night, I was ready to come back to school,” says Donna Gribble. Jarret Weinpel had not been planning to go home for Fall Break until his 15-year-old sister called him two weeks ago. She had found some babysitting money she forgot and told Weinpel that she would buy his ticket to New Jersey. It was an offer he could not refuse: “Everything worked out perfectly. Isn’t my sister amazing?!”

Buddy Reunions

Other students took off for other colleges to visit old high school friends. Aylin Somerson and Berna Demiralp, Turkish international students, went to Duke University for the long weekend. “We went around in a big Turkish group,” Berna says. “It was really fun!” Abbey Bergsma, a native of Louisiana, made her way upto Barnard and NYU in New York. She had one exciting adventure after another up there, including finding herself in a parade of Mario Cuomo enthusiasts.

Davidson Outdoors

Adventurous Wildcats elected to go on one of the several fall break trips offered by Davidson Outdoors. The trips included whitewater rafting, kayaking, mountain biking, and hang gliding. John Roe went on the beginners’ kayaking trip. He enjoyed his passage through classes I, II, and III rapids so much that he says, “I had so much fun that I want to go out and buy a kayak right now!”

Serving the Community

The Chaplain’s office and the Service Coordinator co-sponsored a service trip to Candor, North Carolina—a predominantly Hispanic community. There, 14 students worked on rebuilding an abandoned funeral home for the Prince of Peace Baptist Mission Church to use as a sanctuary. Among other tasks, the team painted, replaced window panes, and hung a door. Chaplain Rob Spach says, “Our objective is to provide religious programming for the entire campus.” All students are invited and encouraged to participate in service opportunities.

Back to the Grind

Now that the hallowed Fall Break has come and gone, many students are asking themselves where their time went. Why didn’t they have time to catch up on their homework? Why didn’t they have time to read ahead in their texts? Oh well. There’s still time for that. Thanksgiving Break is only a few short weeks away!

Humanities Program Receives Professorship

Humes continued from page 1

The Humanities program is a four-semester course for freshmen and sophomores designed to fulfill core requirements in History, Religion, Philosophy, and English. Twenty-two professors from these and other areas teach the course, which alternates lecture and discussion periods. Most professors only teach one or two semesters of the four-semester series.

Davidson faced stiff competition before receiving this grant. Only seven schools were selected nationwide. Winners will receive compensation that equals that of other endowed professorships. The first distinguished professor will be selected in late January. Nominations may be submitted to Robert Williams, Vice-President of Academic Affairs, in Chambers 116 by December 1.

Certified by American Board of Dermatology

Nancy J. Astle, M.D.
Craig S. Schauder, M.D.

ANNOUNCING THE OPENING OF THEIR PRACTICE IN DERMATOLOGY AND COSMETIC SURGERY

Certified by American Board of Dermatology and American Board of Cosmetic Surgery

Specializing in Adult and Pediatric Care of the skin, hair, and nails; hair replacement surgery; liposuction; skin cancer removal, including Mohs Technique; chemical peels; spider vein treatment.

19900 Hwy 73 West
Davidson, NC 28036

For an Appointment
Call 704-892-4878

October 20, 1994.

Students, Administration, and Faculty are invited to nominate a student or students for the Goodwin-Exxon Award. This award is presented annually at Fall Convocation to a sophomore, junior, and senior student. Recipients receive a $500 stipend plus a $100 donation to a charity of their choice. The criteria for selection include students who exemplify:
- the highest standards of character
- good sportsmanship
- consideration for the less fortunate

Present or past students who have been recipients include Alden Smith, Jennifer Humphrey, Kelly Murray, David Lindsay, Eric Rosenbach, and Robin Schroeder. Nomination forms are available in the Dean of Students Office, Library, and Union. Completed forms should be turned in to the Dean of Students Office by