Che B "THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY" avidsonian

VOLUME LXXXVI MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1994 NUMBER 4

U.S. News ranks Davidson eighth
By Meg Wolff

Even though Davidson has been ranked number eight in this year’s U.S. News & World Report, don’t expect much surprise from the administration. Dean of Admissions Nancy Cable Wells says, "Over time, Davidson has slowly, carefully, and appropriately pursued a course of strengthening an already-strong institution. Finally, Davidson is being recognized for its efforts.” Davidson College President John Kuykendall says, "It’s always nice to be included in such good company.” Dean of Faculty Robert Williams says, “As long as we are on a national list we say we don’t take seriously, I’d rather be higher than lower on that list. We know who we are and what we do well; it’s nice that a survey recognizes Davidson’s achievement.”

What does the ranking mean?
The number eight ranking, which marks Davidson as one of the top ten liberal arts schools in the country, is a significant jump from last year’s number 12 ranking and from 1992’s number 18 ranking. Davidson’s overall score, a 91.6—compared with last year’s 88.5—reflects Davidson’s improvement in seven categories. This improvement is especially evident in the area of faculty resources, where Davidson moved from an overall ranking of 30 to 18. Davidson’s academic reputation has also risen, moving from 15th to 14th nationally.

Although Davidson’s ranking improved dramatically in most areas, it fell in the area of alumni satisfaction from 25th to 38th. This category merely reflects the average percentage of a school’s living alumni who gave money during its 1992 and/or 1993 fundraising drives. That percentage has remained constant at 46% for the last two years. Graduates were not surveyed directly.

How are the rankings tabulated?
To rank schools, U.S. News & World Report compiles data in six areas—faculty resources, reputation, selectivity, financial resources, graduation rate, and alumni satisfaction—and converts the data into a percentile. After the highest raw score is given a value of 100%, the other scores are taken as a percentage of that top score and totaled.

Photo by Brooke McRae
Despite trouble on the field, fans packed in to see 'Cats take on UCLA. Story in sports section.

Senior apartments named in honor of donors
By Mary Laura Moretz

Although now modestly labelled Martin Court Apartments A, D, and E, Davidson students will soon learn new names for these three senior apartment buildings. The buildings will be named in honor of three Davidson families and their substantial gifts to Davidson at a dedication.

Honor Council elections complicated; SGA senators elected
By Sarah Teachworth

The battery of campaign flyers that recently bombarded the Davidson College campus was quelled last Monday when elections were held for the freshman Senator and the sophomore and junior Honor Council members. The former election went smoothly, but the latter was filled with complications.

Honor Council mix-up
Following the precedent of the past two years, the SGA informed the top six junior candidates that they had won a seat on the Honor Council. A short time later, it was discovered that the bylaws of the Honor Council required the election of four sophomores and four juniors, not six. Three years ago, the president of the SGA supported an Honor Council reform that would increase the overall size of the Honor Council and change the number of representatives to be elected each year. The council adopted the reform in practice, but never officially wrote the change into the bylaws. No one spotted the oversight until this year. Because the junior candidates had already been notified, the SGA...

See SGA on page 4

inside am THIS WEEKCeremony on Friday, September 23. Building A will become Hart Residence Hall in honor of the family of W. Lewis Hart ‘30. A plaque on the building will honor Hart and his late wife, Kalista Hood Hart, as well as Lewis’ and Kalista’s parents. Frazer Hood, Kalista’s father, taught at Davidson from 1920 to 1944. Building D will be named Ryburn Residence Hall in honor of Sam Ryburn ‘38 and his wife Frances. The Ryburns live in Charlotte and remain active in civic life and life at Davidson. They made their gift to Davidson last October. Building E will become Flowe Residence Hall in honor of Harry G. Brown, Mary Lore Flowe Brown, and the W. W. Flowe family. William Winslow Flowe, class of 1895, and his son William Flowe, Jr. ‘29 are remembered now by Mary Lore Flowe Brown and her husband Harry G. Brown. The plaque also will mention their late son, William Flowe Brown. Vice President for Institutional Advancement at Davidson, Toby Bethea ‘63, says he is “thrilled and grateful for the gifts to Davidson from these generous families.” He hopes “that many students, faculty, and staff will join us for this wonderful occasion.” The ceremony will take place at 6:00 p.m. on Martin Court. All members of Davidson College are invited.

The six areas are then numerically ranked in descending order and weighted. The weighted numerical ranks for each school are then totaled, and the school with the fewest total weighted points becomes first in its category. That score is then converted into a percentage of 100, and the scores of the other schools are converted into a percentage of that achieved by the top-ranking school, and the scores are finally ranked in descending order. Several factors are also considered while compiling data in each of the six significant areas. For example, to rank faculty resources, U.S. News & World Report...

See Why not 7? on page 5

Admissions office ceases to interview applicants

By Mary Clare Jalonick

More high school students than ever before are interested in Davidson. In 1990, the school entertained around 2,500 visitors. In the 1993-94 school year, that figure nearly doubled; over 4,500 interested students, parents, and passers-by visited Davidson’s campus. As a result of this enormous increase, the admissions office has incorporated a new system of handling perspectives. Instead of doing eight to ten interviews a day, they will conduct five “individual conversations” a day beginning later this fall. The change in terminology refers to the attitude that the admissions office has towards the sessions; they want to de-emphasize the image of a “grueling third degree” as much as possible. They see the conversations as a time to exchange information and answer questions about the school. In addition to the conversations, the admissions office offers four information sessions with ten or less people each day. Three tours are also offered.

The Student Perspective

Some people see the decrease in interviewing as a depersonalization of the school. Many students valued their interviews as one of the most important...

See Cable-Wells on page 3

26 hours of James Joyce

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

NEWS 2
OPINIONS 7
Stars and bars
Ike Bailey discusses the meaning of the Confederate flag.

Homecoming
Current students look forward to the weekend when graduates return and parties abound.

ARTS & LIVING 12
Football opens season vs. Maryville
Davidson loses 19-14.

SPORTS 14