THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 7, 1994

Is Davidson becoming a suitcase school?

Where does everyone go on the weekends and why? What about Davidson makes so many people take to the road on Friday afternoon?

By Jeff Fuller

When asked about the number of students who leave Davidson for the weekend, most students respond, "Davidson is definitely not a suitcase school." Although most students agree that a large percentage of students stay at Davidson each weekend, several cite Patterson Court as the main reason some students spend weekends away. Since Patterson Court dominates social life at Davidson, students may leave to find other alternatives.

Senior Anne Zirkle cites “disillusionment with the Court” as one of the major factors causing people to take weekends away. Freshman Jessica Stetler says, “Some people don’t like the social atmosphere, since most of it revolves around drinking and hooking up.” Junior B.J. Rudell notes that the novelty of Patterson Court wears off as students move past their freshman year: “The social opportunities become less exciting as time goes on.” Rudell, who used to spend most of his weekends on campus, now periodically visits his girlfriend on another campus. He says he would make trips to Myrtle Beach or to events like the Southern Conference Tournament in Asheville. He adds that spending weekends away “was much better than spending a weekend here.”

Junior John Walsh cites date functions as a reason people leave Davidson for the weekend. He says, “Some students would rather leave campus than try to find a date.” Fraternities do not usually hold parties during eating houses’ date functions. Consequently, nearly one-third of the females are at the date function, leaving those people not attending the function to find something else to do. The lack of open parties on such weekends often causes students to take trips to other schools or to go home.

However, most students do not often go home for the weekend. Freshman Alison Bryant says, “I don’t go home unless it’s a holiday.” Bryant spends many weekends on campus, but “two to three parties a night gets boring after a while,” so she goes to Wake Forest if there’s a good concert. She says that she often sees Davidson students while at concerts there.

Senior Katy Hammond says she believes students leave campus because “they need a break.” Some students said they need a break not only from the “same parties and the same people,” but from the “hectic atmosphere” of Davidson in general. Hammond believes that Davidson’s small size makes the problem worse. She says she “wouldn’t be surprised, even at a big school,” if the same boredom with friends, work, and sports occurred. Hammond says that although students need a break sometimes, she is happy that so many students stay on campus during weekends.

Freshman Rob Vogelbacher, who lives in Charlotte, says he likes spending time on campus because “it’s what everybody’s doing.”

Photo by Amy Laukkanen
Students stream out of the dorms to the parking lots on their way out of town for the weekend.

Sophomore William Neville and Senior Anne Zirkle say they enjoy staying in Davidson because their friends stay, too. Vogelbacher, who says he “enjoys being in a large group,” realizes that “the [Patterson Court] scene tends to get repetitive,” but “there’s something appealing about knowing what you’re going to do.” Freshman Ann Hatfield stays on campus because “I don’t want to miss what’s going on...there’s usually a lot going on here.” However, she says that leaving Davidson is necessary to attain “a new outlook.”

Sophomore Lesli Keller says that her job as a wrestling coach’s assistant allows her to spend many weekends away from campus in the spring. Keller, who is from Little Rock, Arkansas, says that “home is too far,” but “if my parents lived close I think I’d go home a lot.” Like Keller, many students at Davidson cannot go “home” frequently because home is too far away. Freshman Seth Clippard says that he spends most of his weekends...On campus, Clippard, who does not own a car, says that if he had a car, “I would not spend a lot of weekends away.” He says that “so much work” would keep him from traveling. “Even if I wanted to [leave], I wouldn’t be able to,” and staying at Davidson is cheaper than traveling. He also enjoys staying on campus and resting after a busy week.

Where do students go if they leave? Most students say they visit friends at other schools. Few of them go home. Which students are most apt to leave Davidson on the weekend? A wide range of answers were given: women and men who don’t have dates for date functions, upperclassmen who are tired of Patterson Court, fraternity pledges, independents, or students who simply need to get away.

Does the court scene need to be improved? Freshman Seth Clippard suggests a more spread-out court since the present court is “so confined, you can’t get away from it.” He also suggests that students give the court “support to make it exciting enough.” Rudell says that public transportation to Charlotte would be good for the college, as it would provide a “social alternative” to Patterson Court.

Seniors to give a four-year scholarship as class gift
By Jeff Kent

This past Monday and Tuesday, the senior gift committee held their final vote to decide what they would give to Davidson as their class gift. The 12-person committee, chaired by Kristin Atkins and Rod Carter, narrowed the choices to a donation to the Odyssey fund, journals for the library, and the scholarship. The scholarship will consist of about $2,500 a year given to an incoming freshman for the student’s entire four years at Davidson. Atkins said that they settled on the scholarship because it was a gift that both helps the school and could last a long time.

Atkins and the other committee members figured that the classes following could continue the scholarship as their gifts. In this way, the fund would become a permanent Davidson scholarship. Each class could choose who to offer the scholarship to, as well as whether to make it merit or need-based. Fundraising will consist of donations from the seniors. Atkins said that they will institute three different payment plans with an average donation of about $25 a year for the next two years. Before graduation, the committee hopes to raise about $5,000 with a final goal of $10,000 by May of 1995.

Other ideas included a new entrance sign, a scholarship to honor Dean Terry, or money for a public relations firm to promote Davidson. Committee members felt that the scholarship would be the most beneficial gift. Atkins said the scholarship should be “a good way to help the school for many years to come.”

Tickets continued from page 1

The ticket office, scrambling to satisfy eager fans, bought 82 extra ticket booklets from Western Carolina at the last minute. Though the $15 packages were offered to Davidson students only, all of the 200 booklets sold out in one day, as enthusiastic alums bought up the $55 packages at a feverish rate.

Many students did not believe that they were given adequate information about the packages or notification that tickets were going on sale. Students who were unable to get their hands on the limited tickets had to try their luck at the tournament site in Asheville, where tickets could be purchased for $16 per game. Despite reports of disgruntled students disappointed that they were unable to purchase packages from the college, Lee Sargent doesn’t think that he could have sold more than three or four more ticket books.