TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994

The First Editorial

F.W. Price: Our Founding Father

1914-1923: World War I

1924-1933: Out on the Town

1934-1943: World War II

Table of Contents

To celebrate our 80th birthday, The Davidsonian staff has compiled articles and editorials documenting each of the last eight decades. Each of the feature articles stems from in-depth readings of The Davidsonian from past years. Several former editors-in-chief of The Davidsonian have written in to put one last word in the "South's Foremost College Weekly."

2 1944-1953: Post-War Growth

3 1954-1963: Building the Campus

4 1964-1973: Liberalism

5 1974-1983: Women at Davidson

6 1984-1994: Best students yet

7 10 11

FROM THE EDITOR

F.W. PRICE, 1914

Dollar subscriptions and the Red & Black machine

The first Davidsonian was published on April 1, 1914 under the editorship of F.W. Price and ten other men. With hearty support from the faculty, this group of industrious students established Davidson’s college newspaper as a weekly publication, which it has remained ever since, with a subscription price of $1.00. That has gone up a little. The first issue was four pages long and featured an article which detailed meetings of Davidson’s President William Martin with President Wilson and Vice President Marshall in Washington, D.C. Other news of the day included an orchestra concert in Statesville and a report on the first three games of Davidson’s baseball team, then nicknamed the Red and Black Machine. The editorial which F.W. Price wrote for the first issue of his new newspaper is an eloquent statement of what a college paper should be and rings clear today as a reminder of Davidson’s spirit and tradition.

By F.W. Price

At an enthusiastic meeting on Wednesday night, March 18, the Davidson College Student Body voted for the establishment of a weekly newspaper. Later, an editor and business manager were selected and a staff appointed. The present issue is the first fruits of this action. “The Davidsonian” makes its initial bow.

In the inauguration of such a newspaper, many questions no doubt arise. “Why a college weekly? Does it have a real value? What will it stand for?” A college newspaper is largely what its name implies, composed of news. It should be in close touch with every phase of college life and the life of the community about it. Even in a small college, life becomes more and more complex, and as the students are broken up into an increasing number of groups, there is a tendency not to look beyond the questions and matters in which one man is directly interested. The college newspaper should give live information about every group and department of college activity, keep them acquainted with each other, and thus promote a feeling of mutual interest and encouragement. In addition, there are the things which vitally concern every student, and yet which are not well known or misunderstood.

But the boundaries of a college are not the limits of its campus. In close contact with it every day is a community which is certain to influence andbe influenced by the student. The town column should make every man feel that he has friends in the town, and their interest in the college should be increased by the weekly items and topics about it. The old Davidson spirit which has held sway at Davidson in tradition and fact for years upon years goes with the graduate that leaves her. He scans the daily paper for any stray paragraph of Davidson news, and grips with a loyal clasp the hand of a Davidson man. The Davidsonian should go to the home of every alumnus, let him know what is going on every week at his alma mater, and unite undergraduate and alumnus, alumnus and alumnus in one common purpose — the upbuilding of Davidson. But the newspaper should not merely report events. It should not be content with gathering news of our teams away and accounts of matters not generally known, for the interest of the readers. This indeed is an important and a large part, but a tremendous factor in student life is what is called student opinion. This must be represented fairly and truly on all vital matters which confront the college and concern college welfare. Yet the paper must not follow blindly. It should lead, not lag. It should mould, not be moulded by the sway of campus opinion. It should stand for the best things in every line. This may necessitate occasionally a firm but kind criticism, which, however, often removes an obstruction and clears the way for more concerted and faithful effort.

The Annual is the yearly mirror of college life as it is, a large edition of “Life” in student language. The Magazine is the monthly expression of the literary talent of the college. The weekly newspaper will not encroach on either of them; rather it will strive to advertise and strengthen them. But it needs exactly what the other publications must rely upon: the support of the students and of the friends of Davidson. With your constant and real help, it can be made newsy and strong. It can bring to you all the latest happenings of interest in the college and town. It can increase the spirit in athletic, literary, social and religious life here; it can be a link between college and community, alumni and alma mater. The Davidsonian asks for your earnest cooperation.

THE WILDCAT

Saturday means “fight” — let’s fight 540 strong!

SCREAMS

Welcome Back ‘Cats! Get your school year off to a great start with a visit to The Village Store. We carry calendars, planners and wall clocks to keep up with your busy schedule. Organizers to keep up with your busy desk. And shower baskets and waste baskets in colors that pop. Plus, a wide tech and variety of fabulous gifts and greeting cards for any occasion. See why thousands of Wildcats have shopped at The Village Store for 27 years.