12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1994

Still Whistlin’ a Merry Christmas straight to you

Geoff Graham

Christmas time is nearly upon us once again, and though we may miss the sleigh rides and snowmen here in tropical Davidson, we can still enjoy the Christmas carols. Everybody loves Christmas music, so with that in mind I’ve set out to please fans of all sorts. Every artist seems to have a Christmas album — Barbara Streisand, Willie Nelson, and even James Brown have donned the red cap at one snowy point in their careers — but in order to please everyone, I chose a singer with universal appeal.

George Strait’s Merry Christmas Strait to You is a wonderful addition to everyone’s holiday music library. He covers all the major classics and still manages to squeeze in a few originals.

The album begins with the all-time great, “White Christmas.” George sings with his characteristic elegance and succeeds in reinventing a classic one more time. Other oldies on the album include “Winter Wonderland,” “Away in a Manger,” “Frosty the Snowman,” and “Santa Claus Is Coming to Town.” Every one will warm your heart.

Other, less conventional songs make their appearances as well. “For Christ’s Sake, It’s Christmas” and Keith Whitley’s “There’s a New Kid in Town” remind us what the holiday is all about. George pulls out the band for the rest of the tunes. The title track and “When It’s Christmas Time in Texas” are great holiday dance tunes. George ends the album, as a country singer should, with a song about lost love. “What a Merry Christmas This Could Be” leaves us crying frozen tears for that poor caroller who’s lost his little helper.

Enjoy the holidays, everyone, and remember, it’s Christmas time. Smile a little, and try to make someone happy. If you’ve lost your own little helper just in time for the holidays, may Santa bring you another fireside companion to turn your blue Christmas white.

Senior to go around the world by bicycle in 246 days

We'll have pretty extensive communications systems; we’re hoping to get satellite communications. One of the major hospitals in New York is one of the sponsors, so if we need to medevac somebody out of Mongolia, they'll come in. We'll be staying in hotels in the United States, Europe, and the western part of Russia. Then we’ll be camping through Siberia, Mongolia, and China. As we get further into China, we’ll start staying in hotels again. Then it’ll go through Japan, and then back to the United States. Every time the ride stops, there will be lots of publicity, and at the same time we’ll be stopping to see stuff. Basically my only breaks are when this comes.

Davidsonian: So this bike ride is actually a pretty major event?

Sean: It’s going to be a huge event, and it’s going to get a lot of media coverage. Greg LeMond is fully supporting the whole ride, and he’s going to actually ride in a lot of it. Reebok is supplying all the clothing, which, as you can guess, is a lot. McDonald’s

Wow continued from page 10

Sean: It just started up about a year and a half ago. The company is also called World T.E.A.M., and basically it’s an organization that is geared towards promoting athletics for disabled athletes or disabled people. Everyone on our racing team is involved in some kind of charity, and mostly that’s with disabled athletes. I got involved with this team a couple years ago. We’re just a small part of this organization, sort of like a living advertisement for it. The organization deals with four sports — running, cycling, swimming, and mountain climbing — and it promotes challenge events every few years. For the first event, they took a group of about 10 or 15 disabled athletes and climbed Mount Kilimanjaro. It was a pretty incredible event; CBS did video coverage and won an Emmy for it. So the next idea that they came up with was a bi-is one of the sponsors. Fuji Bicycles is giving all the bicycles. The United Nations has decided to make this event one of their celebration events for their 50th anniversary next year, so in every country we go through, we’ll be hosted at the residence of the U.N. ambassadors. We just got back from Paris, and the mayor of Paris is going to shut down the streets. He wants to see something like ten thousand cyclists from France ride down the Champs-Élysées at one time. These are the kinds of things that are going on.

Davidsonian: What got you into bicycling to begin with?

Sean: I’m a pretty athletic person all around. When I was in high school, I swam, I ran, and I played soccer. One of my coaches was a triathlete, and one time when I got injured, she said, “Let’s just go ride to the meet,” which was like three hours away. I said sure, so she got me a bike, and we rode. Afterwards, after she was panting (and I wasn’t), she said, “You should take up bicycling.” So I decided my senior year in high school to start racing bicycles. Basically, I tried it out once and had a pretty exceptional sort of knack for it. I’ve been racing for four years, and I’ve won races and stuff.

Davidsonian: You sound really interested in the cause behind the ride.

Sean: You know, I was really sold on the idea because I believe in the fact that to be an athlete is to be gifted, and you have an obligation to give something back to those who might not have the same opportunities as you. Too many athletes out there who have the ability to really make a difference, don’t. What we’re saying is, we don’t care if you’re deaf, we don’t care if you’re an amputee, we don’t care if you’ve got some kind of mental problem — you’re all able to participate in athletics. Further down the road, they’ll do all kinds of things for promoting athletics for disabled athletes.

Davidsonian: Can you explain some of the logistics of the ride?

Sean: The ride goes from March 17 to November 18 of 1995. There are three tour leaders, and I am one of them; we basically take a group of about 30 athletes around the world. The people who can do the ride are both able-bodied and disabled people. We’ll have a core group of three to five disabled riders who will do the whole ride. The rest will be a mixture of both disabled and able-bodied athletes who in the 14 stages will rotate in and out. A typical day will probably be between 60 and 100 miles of bicycling. We'll have five support vehicles — three vans, two jeeps.

The Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough Sundae is our famous cookie dough ice cream topped with rich hot fudge, chocolate whipped cream, and real JERRY'S YOGURT.
202 S. Main St. Davidson, NC 892-0604

Hey, all of you economically inclined out there who dream of working at the corporate center or any of the other big, powerful banks in the Queen City, we have the job for you. The business manager of the Davidsonian has all of the responsibilities of running a small business: payroll, accounting, budgeting, managing circulation and advertising, and general office management. And it is a paid job, not to mention all of the free perks associated with working for the "South's Foremost College Weekly." In fact, we'll throw in a free subscription for your folks or a long-distance sweetheart. If interested, call Leigh or Alex (2148).

Open until Midnight
Dec 2 & 3
Dec 9 & 10
Dec 16 & 17

Open until 3 A.M.
Dec 15
Dec 18-20

More Library Hours:
Friday & Saturday
Thursday
Sunday, Monday, Tuesday

Nails
She’s By Lisa
Located Inside Hair World
Full Set (acrylics, gels) $40.00
Fill In (1 broke nail w/fill in) $15.00
Broke Nail (each) $4.00
Buff & Polish $4.00
Manicures $12.00
Pedicures $20.00
10% OFF WITH COLLEGE I.D.
892-1332 © 664-5732