SPORTS MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 1994 17

Cat Nips

Skiing: it ain't hoops

By Jason Byassee

I made the mistake of being out of town on Saturday night, when Davidson took on Tennessee-Chattanooga in hoops. Not
only was my decision to go skiing rather than watch the game a sign of being a poor Davidson fan,
it also smacks of bad journalism: Alas, here I am writing a column about a game that I wasn’t even
at. A few months back I myself fussed at anybody I knew who didn’t go to the UNCC game, which
turned out to be the season’s first big victory. Allow me to come before you as a penitent sports writer.

You see, this was supposed to be a column about the upcoming Carolina-Duke game on Wednesday night. I was gonna
talk about the tradition, the rivalry, the national rankings and stuff, but the Wildcats didn’t let me. The UTC game
was a big win and apparently an unbelievable game, so I’ll tell you about it from my poor fan/poor journalist
point of view.

All last week the game was being talked about. “Big game Saturday, eh?” was one of the most oft-repeated phrases
on Davidson’s campus, and rightfully so. UTC had beaten us on their court over Christmas and had a share of
the lead in the Southern Conference. We were coming off a big win at Georgia Southern, and were fourth in
the conference. A win would keep Davidson in the upper echelon of the league standings, a loss would mean a
.500 record again. And I went skiing. Oops.

When I returned late Saturday night the first person I saw was a hallmate and fellow basketball fan. His voice
was gone for all the shouting he had done from the stands that night, and his first words to me
were, “How ‘bout that game!?” At that point the error of non-attendance was discerned. He went on to tell me
about Mr. Alpert’s heroics, the second half comeback, the horrible officiating, and all the other things that not only made
that game, but that also make college basketball everything it is. It must have been fantastic.

It got me to thinking. In coming to Davidson we’ve supposedly given up the perks of a larger school, like
big-time college sports, for the sake of a close-knit, academic environment. If you’re like me, you wish sometimes that you
could camp out for basketball tickets with your friends or tailgate outside a football stadium full of 50,000 people. So
when Davidson sports teams do go out and win some big games, it’s exciting stuff. This basketball team has the
talent and the coaching to keep winning big ones like they did Saturday night. A few March Southern Conference Tournament
wins and we’re in the NCAA’s, prob

See Nips on page 18

Kirsch, whose play has consistently improved with each

Women's B-ball rebounds with 44 point win

By Neil Marks

The women’s basketball team sprang back from two tough road losses last week with a 77-33 trouncing of Washington and
Lee on Saturday. The Generals, playing in their first year at the varsity level, were no match for the Wildcats,
who put on one of their best performances of the year.

“Even though they play Division III, W&L is one of the toughest teams we’ll come up against. Tonight we simply
took them out of everything they tried to do. We put on the best passing display of the entire year,
especially off the break,” said head coach John Filar.

A major contributor to the team was freshman Carolyn Kirsch, whose play has consistently improved with each game. In her
first game at Davidson, Kirsch scored four points and had no rebounds. On Saturday, she scored a triple double with
20 points, 11 steals, and 10 rebounds.

“Carolyn’s made some big adjustments, such as the switch from high school ball to a more physical college level of
play as well as the switch to the inside. In high school she was predominantly an outside player. I think
things are starting to sink in and her confidence is going up. My personal confidence in her, as well as
the team’s, couldn’t be higher right now,” Filar said.

Elizabeth DuBose said, “She always plays with so much intensity and it’s great to see things really starting to go
her way."

“I was really nervous and putting too much pressure on myself at first. My first game was terrible; I couldn’t
do anything. Over break though, I went home and told myself that it was stupid to get nervous and that
I just needed to relax and enjoy it more,” said Kirsch.

The win over Washington and Lee was a huge confidence booster after a disappointing eight-point loss to Western Carolina on
Thursday.

“We showed flashes of brilliance in the Western Carolina game but they played much more consistently. We could nevertake control,”
said Filar. “I think we suffered some

See Women on page 19

"What makes him so good is his relentlessness in the way he plays the game. When you have a passion
for success that he has, you can see why he is such a good player."
-Men's Basketball Coach Bob McKillop on Janko Narat

Profile Column of Sports Information

Janko Narat: The go-to guy
By Matt Pitzer

Situation: Davidson leads Tennessee-Chattanooga by one point with less than twenty seconds to play. The designed play is for guard
Chris Alpert to try to pass the ball to senior forward Janko Narat on the post. Alpert delivered the ball
to Narat less than five feet from the basket. There Narat is quickly double-teamed. What to do? Try to force
the shot, hoping to draw a foul? Try to force a pass to the other side of the court? No,
he calmly passes back to Alpert, whose defender has left him to help guard Narat. Alpert then easily drains a
three-pointer to seal the victory for the Wildcats.

While a simple play, this sequence illustrated the leadership Janko Narat has provided the men’s basketball team this year. The
statistics tell the story easily enough. He not only leads the team in scoring at 17.7 points per game, but
the 6-foot-7 native of Domzale, Slovenia also leads the team with 5.8 rebounds per game.

“What makes him so good,” coach Bob McKillop says, “is his relentlessness and the way he plays the game. When
you have the passion for success that he has, you can see why he is such a good player. It’s
a passion that has developed from seeing his homeland devastated by war, which has contributed to his drive to perform
well.”

But that passion still did not prepare Janko Narat for the differences between American basketball and the European game. Some
of those differences were overcome during his attendance at Fort Union Military Academy in Virginia. Besides learning the style of
play on this side of the ocean, Narat had his first taste of success as his team finished 24-1 during
his senior year. In addition, all five starters received Division I scholarships.

“He was a top catch,” says McKillop. “We knew when he committed to Davidson that we had a steal.”

Asking the coach to describe Narat’s strengths is like asking for a description of the perfect basketball player. He can
score inside and outside, moves well without the ball, and can be an outstanding defender. Despite having all of those
abilities, Janko has found still another area needing improvement this season.

“He’s been drawing more and more fouls this year,” says his coach. “He finishes plays in traffic and in the
paint better than he ever used to.”

Narat has evolved as a silent leader for this year’s basketball team, one that is enjoying the

See Janko on page 20

Comeback secures big win for Cats
By Matt Pitzer

It was, as Chris Alpert said, “like getting the monkey off our back.” Davidson’s 72-71 win here Saturday over Tennessee-Chattanooga
was the first over the Moccasins since the 1987-88 season, and it kept Davidson in contention for the conference title,
especially with six of its nine games in Belk Arena.

Saturday’s win followed a comeback from a 16-point first half deficit, and it followed a first half in which it
looked as if the Moccasins could do anything they wanted. It followed a three-pointer by Alpert with 11 seconds remaining
in the game on a perfectly executed play. It also followed a matching three-pointer by Brandon Born with three seconds
left that provided the final margin. After Born’s shot, the Wildcats dribbled off the remaining time for another big win
in a season that has already seen wins over UNCC, NC State, and Clemson.

Janko Narat led Davidson (12-5, 6-4 SC) with 18 points, while Brandon Williams added 15 and Alpert 13. George Spain
chipped in 11. The loss dropped the Moccasins (13-5, 7-3) out of the conference lead.

In the first half, and especially during a two and a half minute stretch in which UTC ran off 16
straight points, it looked as if the Moccasins could do no wrong and the Wildcats could do little right. UTC
marched down the floor and quickly put up the shot that it wanted, and 59% of those shots went in
during the 1st half, including 7 of 12 three-pointers. Davidson, meanwhile, struggled for the most part to get good looks
at the basket and often was forced to take tough shots, resulting in 45% 1st half shooting.

“We shot the ball too quickly in the first half,” coach Bob McKillop said. “We didn’t have patience on offense,
we didn’t get the ball inside to score.”

The most damaging part of the opening period was the 16-0 run that started following a time-out with 14:53 to
play. When it ended with Copeland’s 2 free

See Mens on page 18
