THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Track & field ends season at Southern

By Jean DeMoss

The women’s track season drew to a close this weekend in Lexington at the Outdoor Southern Conference Meet. The culmination of months of hard work and practice paid off as the women's teams competed on VMI’s track for top honors. The gun went off for the first time at 9 a.m. Friday morning and the 10,000 m runners commenced 25 grueling laps around the oval track. Freshman Stephanie Moses finished in a respectable time of 39:00 and junior Elizabeth Bishop was close behind with the time of 39:28.

After lunch, the events quickly picked up as several athletes qualified for finals. Lara Burkholder participated in the long jump, sailing to a 17’4” jump. In the triple jump, Maria Whitehead placed seventh with a jump of 34’10”. Scoring points for Davidson, Vanessa Sims demolished the competition in the high jump, soaring over a bar 5’4” and snagging a third-place finish for the Wildcats. Erika Gromelski represented the thinclads in the field events. She threw the discus 90’10” and the shot put 28’7”. In other running action, Maria Whitehead made it to the finals of the 400m hurdles and finished with a strong time of 1:08.2. Lara Burkholder smoked around the track to run a 1:02 quarter mile.

Davidson placed an intimidating group of distance runners on the track both Friday and Saturday. Sophomore Phuong Nguyen ran a spectacular 1500m (4:57). She was joined by teammates Karen Marshall and Jean DeMoss. In the 800m run, sophomore Marie Grisez just missed setting a school record but finished with a 2:21.

Super Srs RBI

Continued from page 17

to play baseball against some of the best players in the country.” While Boretti lists a brawl with UNCC as one of his best memories of his career, Freitas says he will remember playing at Wildcat Field. At first, that seems normal enough, but a little odd when you consider that Freitas is the player who loves to get on base. “I like to get on base while no one else is on,” he said. “I love to cause havoc on the basepaths and get inside the pitcher’s mind.” He has done that pretty well this season as he has led the team in both hitting at .386 and stolen bases with 16. “It’s nice as a coach to give him the freedom of the green light,” Cooke said. “It’s nice knowing that most of the time, he’ll be mature enough to make the right decision of whether or not to run.”

While Freitas is happy at reaching that 200-hit mark, he said he is happier that he broke the team career record for triples with nine. While Freitas is having the best year, numbers-wise, of his college career, the four-year starter also expressed disappointment that the team has not won more. So here are Boretti and Freitas, along with six other seniors, getting ready to end their college baseball careers. Both expressed hope about playing at the next level, and both clearly are good enough to warrant a look. Through the bad memories - staying in dirty hotels - to the good ones - traveling to Hawaii as freshmen and beating number one Georgia Tech.

Photo by Laukkanen

Would you like some Freitas with your Boretti?

MONDAY, APRIL 25, 1994 19also finished the season with a personal best of 2:27. In other 800m action, Phuong Nguyen, Annie Parsons, and Karen Marshall tore up the track. After a night’s rest, Stephanie Moses and Elizabeth Bishop returned to the track to compete in the 5000m run. Erin Roach and Carolyn Meadows joined them in the mid-day heat. Moses crossed the finish line first for Davidson (19:16), with Bishop (19:28), Roach (19:31), and Meadows right behind. Erin Roach also competed in the 3000m run for Davidson and finished with a season best of 11:05. The last event of the day was the 4x400 meter relay. Maria Whitehead handled the lead-off leg and passed to Marie Grisez. Sallie Permar filled the third position and handed off to anchor Lara Burkholder. With only two seniors graduating, the core of the team comes back next year, ready to wreck even more havoc on the Southern Conference.

Tennis loses number 1 player

Hess continued from page 17

In the Conference Tournament, Hess did extremely well. Last weekend she placed third in the singles competition by defeating second seed Katherine Price of Furman. Hess beat Price in three tough sets, 6-1, 1-6, 6-2. She and doubles partner Kimberly Nance also performed well at the tournament. The two placed second to the Furman doubles team, barely losing with a score of 6-2, 3-6, 6-4. The Davidson women’s team also did well, placing second overall.

Hess said she has really enjoyed being a member of the women’s team. “I love this team. I love traveling with the team and playing with the team.” Hess is, indeed, a team player. She has learned to manage her time well while playing tennis and studying. “It is unprecedented what she did—to anchor the number one spot for four years with all the challenges that can happen at the number one spot. Especially for her to be able to anchor the spot in Division I competition and be Phi Beta Kappa. She really met the challenge,” said coach Caroline Price.

During her last few weeks as a Davidson student, Hess received the prestigious Rebecca E. Stimson award at Convocation. Rebecca Stimson was a tremendous multi-sport student-athlete who received top honors at Davidson for her academic performance. “That award is quite an honor for any student-athlete,” said Price. Hess is an exceptional student-athlete.

Color Plus 14°, Diplan perplexes personal computer on campuses and across the country for the past two years. And that’s a trend that is likely to continue. Because there are Macintosh and PowerBook models available within your budget. Meaning you get it all. Power. Quality. And affordability. It’s that simple. So, if that sounds like value to you, visit your Apple Campus. For further information visit Computer Services Center. Contact Kim Kenyon at x2432.

©1994 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, Macintosh Quadra, and PowerBook are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. AppleCD, AppleColor, and AudioVision are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.