THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING September 26, 1994

Gabriel's latest album breathes new life into old hits
By John Copenhaver

Peter Gabriel’s Secret World Tour was, from what I have heard, a magnificent show which unsurprisingly is reflected in the
quality of his new live album taken from the tour. His Secret World Live album recorded in Modena, Italy on
November 16th and 17th, 1993, is a two-disc set containing all of his big hits from the US album such
as “Steam,” “Digging in the Dirt,” and “Blood of Eden.” Also included on the album are his big hits from
SO such as “Red Rain” and “In Your Eyes.”

Many times I’m tentative about buying live albums for fear of getting live songs that sound the same or even
worse than the original album. Being a Peter Gabriel fan, I bought the album on faith and was not disappointed.
Gabriel reinterprets many of his songs and makes some even longer than their album counterparts. His song “Steam” starts off
with a soft version of “Steam” called “Quiet Steam” (from the “Digging in the Dirt” single) and then bursts into
the original “Steam.” The version of “Kiss That Frog” is similar to the video version mixed with Gabriel playing the
harmonica. “Digging in the Dirt” starts off with some creative percussion, making the song longer and slightly harder. Finally, the
last song is an 11-minute “In Your Eyes” taken to the extremes of reinterpretation. It is filled with different unusual
backup vocals.

Surreal McCoy's Rock Outpost
by Dave Williard

The Surreal McCoy’s, a new Davidson band, played last Thursday night at the Union Outpost’s Jumpin’ Java Cafe. Seniors Tom
Bavis and Jim Moss joined Charlotte residents Shannon Cantrell and Shawn Lynch for a mixed acoustic and electric set. Their
Davidson premiere was the band’s third live appearance, and although they have been together for only four months, the McCoys
have already put out a four-song EP.

Cantrell, the band’s singer and songwriter, leads the group with brooding vocals. “I see the ugly underbelly of things a
lot of the time,” Cantrell said. "Blinded," a well-produced song on the EP, best demonstrates the singer’s introspective, stream-of-consciousness style.
“On Top of the World,” a favorite at Thursday’s gig, is also well written. On this song, guitarist Shawn Lynch
plays reservedly and unselfishly, a testament both to his confidence and his talent. Bassist Jim Moss recently joined the band,
but he melds well with Tom Bavis’s drumming style.

Together they help to push Cantrell’s vocals to the forefront, a rare quality in such a young band. The Surreal
McCoys count the Beatles and Matthew Sweet among their biggest influences, but the band has developed a unique style. Their
music is sparing, but the mood is quite intense. More collaborative songwriting will help develop the McCoys’ already mature set
list. The Surreal McCoys are a talented band, and they deserve Davidson’s attention. Good luck, y'all!

Shannon Cantrell plays an unplugged ditty
photo by Marian Woodworth

Milk Money misses mark
Sour continued from page 10

and Vee discuss the pros and cons of her work; she thinks he knows she is a prostitute and he
thinks she is a math tutor. I couldn’t follow it either. Fueling the action is a mafia subplot which places
Vee at the center of an intra-mob theft scandal started by her pimp. The worst part of the entire movie
are the heinous stereotypes of prostitutes and pimps. Vee’s greasy Brooklyn-accented pimp tells her “You’re not even a person.” Well,
I guess you have to respect the effort. The movie ends exactly as you knew it would—Frank comes of age,
Vee becomes a person, and Dad believes in love again. I have no clue at what audience this movie is
targeted. Maybe 8-10 year old girls. One of Frank’s friends was pretty cute.

THE SCENE ON CAMPUS

All week in the Visual Arts Center, you can check out the Patrick Donley Exhibition in the Edward M. Smith
gallery entitled “Cyclical Nature.” The Annual Faculty Exhibition is being held at the same time in the William H. Van
Every, Jr. Gallery. In the Union Gallery, there is a Bob Crum Exhibition, entitled “With These Hands” by Carolina Artists
and Artisans. At the Christa Faut Gallery right here in Davidson, drawings by Elsie Dinsmore Popkins are featured in an
exhibit called “N.C. Gardens.” You might want to go to Charlotte and visit the Farvan International Gallery on 220 N.
Tryon St. Right now, Balinese Masks by Ida Bagus Anom are featured, as well as landscape paintings by William Scott
Green and sculptures and African masks from the private collection.Collection of Miriam Coumare. Also, I read that there’s some kind
of Origami Festival going on in Charlotte, and while most of it will be over by the time you read
this, you can still catch the president of Origami USA, Jean Baden-Gillette, at the University City Regional Library on Tuesday
at 6:30. Sounds like a good time.

MUSIC
On Monday, Sep. 26 at 8:00 p.m. in the DCPC Sanctuary, Organist Andre Lash will perform works by Bach, Buxtehude,
Franck, and more. He is the organist and minister of music at St. John’s Baptist Church in Charlotte.

On Friday, September 30, there will be a Faculty Recital featuring members of Davidson’s music department. This is taking place
in Hodson Hall at 8:00 p.m. There will be a Release Party sponsored by Hometown Records on Monday night at
11:30 p.m. in the Union. You can buy the new releases by R.E.M., Big Head Todd & The Monsters, and
Dave Matthews Band. I’ll be there with my checkbook eagerly anticipating the R.E.M. and Big Head Todd, so be there.

THEATER/MOVIES
A big event is the Talent Show, on Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium. Davidson College faculty and staff
will perform to benefit the Project Names AIDS quilt. The Pop Film committee will be showing El Mariachi in the
900 Room on Wednesday at 9:30 p.m. Then on Sunday, they will show A Streetcar Named Desire in the 900
Room at 8:00 p.m.

MISCELLANEOUS
Check out the Coffeehouse, every Tuesday all morning in the 900 Room. On Tuesday night at 7:30, Davidson alumna Sara
Carlson will speak in the 900 Room about her year spent in North Atlantic islands on a Watson Fellowship. This
should be pretty interesting. Of course, 21 Year Old Night will be held in the 900 Room at 10:30. The
International Festival will be held on Saturday in the Union, beginning at 11:00. Go and learn about some different cultures.

From Papa Wemba, Redy Mela Amissi, and Styno Mubi Matadi. This version of “In Your Eyes” is fascinating, but a
little long for repeated listens. Also included on the album is a live version of an unusual song called “Across
the River,” which can be found in its original form on the rare “Big Time” single. My only criticism is
that there is quite a bit of crowd interference in a lot of the songs. This does not really affect
the faster songs, but the mood of the slower songs is often broken by the clapping of an overzealous crowd.
Even with the slight annoyance of the crowd, I would highly recommend this album to any Peter Gabriel fans. Overall,
I really enjoy this live album.

Dear Terry Buffington,
"Someone who cares"

Dear Terry Buffington,
I wanted to ask you about a problem. Whenever I drink a lot, which is not often (maybe once every
two months), I lose some of my memory. I have conversations with people that I don’t remember later, and I
go places I don’t remember going. This doesn’t seem to happen to any of my friends. Are you a doctor?
Can you give me advice about this? I just want to have a good time and remember it later.
Signed,
Anxious Alcoholic

Dear Anxious Alcoholic,
I’m no doctor, but I know the dangers of binge drinking. Memory loss is one of the scariest results of
alcohol abuse, except for maybe choking on your own vomit. Excess alcohol consumption gives your id free reign over your
actions, while your superego slumbers in the corner. When that happens, you are likely to do things you may regret.
They say that blackouts are a sign of alcoholic tendencies, so anyone who has them consistently needs to be very
careful about regulating their drinking. The obvious answer, and the one no one really wants to hear, is this—don’t drink
so much. But if you’re going to drink a lot, try another philosophy: pace yourself. By drinking more slowly, you
give your body time to process the alcohol. You will achieve a steadier buzz that lasts throughout the night, and
you won’t lose control so easily. You might also want to avoid lengthy participation in activities designed around drinking. By
not playing in drinking games, “hour of power,” and shotgunning, you can have a little more control over what you
swallow. I know it’s hard to avoid these temptations in the throes of bacchanalian revelry, but it’s worth your while
to revel and remember. Party balls, sort of.
Love,
Terry

Confused? Upset? Full of Angst? Terry can help. Address letters to Terry and send them to P.O. Box 219 or
drop them by The Davidsonian office.

Mary's Sewing Machine Rental And Instruction
Portable Sewing Machine by Day
Call 704-892-7110
