**The Davidsonian**

VOLUME LXXXVI TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994 NUMBER 2

$250,000 grant given for Johnston Gym renovations

By Mary Laura Moretz

As early as the next academic year, Davidson students will see Johnston Gym undergo a transformation into a student activity
and recreational center. Thanks to a gift of $250,000 from the Cannon Foundation of Concord, Davidson now has part of
the funds needed to realize major renovation goals. Proposed ideas include a high ropes course in the gym rafters, student
organization and meeting rooms, and areas for exercise, dance, and band rehearsals.

Although Dean Shandley says “there won’t be any dramatic changes this year,” the physical plant will start immediately on some
much-needed cosmetic remodeling. Work on the floors and new paint inside will make the gym usable for intramural and club
sports and large events such as concerts. According to College Union Director William Brown, other basic work will include updating
the old air, heating, electrical, and plumbing systems. Major renovations cannot begin until other fundraisers supply the additional money needed.
Shandley says much of the money will come from the Capital Campaign, to be completed next summer.

The recent student union study by MPC Associates shows that student needs will still require more space. Shandley and Brown
agree that the revamped building will not take the place of a new union. The proposed changes will, however, utilize
the available space better and meet many of the needs expressed by students, faculty, and staff.

Photo by Kristina Nevius
With potential renovations, Johnston Gym could become a recreational center.

B-ball courts to replace tennis parking lot?

By Ashlyn Dannelly

If Senior Class President B.J. Rudell has his way, the clank of basketballs hitting the rim will soon replace the
hum of car engines in the parking lot located next to the tennis courts. On Tuesday, Rudell presented a resolution
to the SGA which would allow the conversion of the lot into a six-hoop facility arranged similar to the current
outdoor courts at Richardson Field, with one full court and two cross courts. A safety net would prevent balls from
being thrown into the road or onto the tennis courts.

According to Rudell, he has been discussing the idea with Athletic Director Terry Holland for a year. Holland and Rudell
have...

See B-ball continued on page 2

Photo by Brandon Clarke
Despite attempts to improve the drop/add system, lines still hinder expedient schedule changes.

Self-study to review campus life

By Mary Clare Jalonick

Once every ten years, every college and university in the South must be reviewed by SACS, the Southern Association of
Colleges and Schools. This time around, Davidson decided to put a different twist on the review process.

For the next two years, the school will be fully immersed in Self-Study, an original program unique to Davidson. Headed
by English professor Randy Nelson, members of the Davidson community will review all aspects of the college. The review will
consist of six committees: compliance, education with a science emphasis, the undergraduate experience, information and technology, athletics, and financial management.
Each committee has two co-chairs, one member of the faculty and one member of the staff. The groups are not
yet completely formed but will eventually have members that encompass all areas of the college. Students, alumnae, parents, and trustees
will participate.

The compliance committee...

By Susan Warren

Due largely to efforts by a Davidson group this summer, Davidson may soon establish a summer program in Africa. In
July, Assistant Dean of Students John Eaves and a group of Davidson staff, faculty, and students...traveled to West Africa to
establish links between Davidson and some African universities.

INSIDE THIS WEEK
First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

The group visited three countries in West Africa: Cote d’Ivoire, Ghana, and Senegal. Although universities in all three places impressed
the group, Ghana holds the most likely prospects since English is that country’s primary language. Tentative plans for the Africa
program resemble the format of Davidson’s study abroad session in Cambridge, England. It would be a six-week program with 10
to 15 students studying humanities at an African university with opportunities to travel within the country. Whether students would reside
in dorms or with host families remains uncertain. Eaves says that although...

See Africa continued on page 3

...was formed to meet the requirements of SACS. The Association sets up a series of 330 criteria that Nelson calls
“must” statements. For example, the college “must have a library that meets the needs of students.” This committee has to
prove in some way that our library is sufficient. When they are finished, outside officials and experts will come to
the school to view their report. Director of Institutional Research John Kelton will be a co-chair for the compliance committee.
He says that his job is really “to get that part over as quickly as possible so we can focus
on the other studies, which are more vital to the college.” The other five committees, called the “focus committees,” were
set up by Davidson. Nelson says that these councils are geared to look at “very sensitive areas of the school.”

See Study continued on page 3

KA cleans up to stay on campus.
By Beth Lindsey

While most members of Patterson Court houses returned to school this semester to find merely an extra layer of dust
on the furniture, members of one house discovered their house locked up and their insignia removed. During the summer, college
officials took action against Kappa Alpha after discovering what Kurt Holmes, Patterson Court Advisor, believes was a “cumulative effect of
a year of heavy wear on the house.” This penalty was further accentuated when no KA representative appeared at the
final house inspection last spring. Holmes says that though “the school hasn’t renewed the lease, it hasn’t said that it
won’t.” The college has given KA the opportunity to thoroughly clean the house; if they do a sufficient job cleaning
and if they completely prime and paint the house, KA will soon be in full operation. Evaluations of KA’s progress
will be conducted by Holmes and Dean Shandley based largely upon comments from Physical Plant concerning the condition of the
house.

Despite the initial bad feelings on the part of KA members toward the college, KA treasurer Nick Troiano recognizes that
the college is working with the fraternity. His concern, however, lies with KA’s having to pay for the paint itself.
Says Troiano, “Our house provides much of the total social activity for the entire school. I don’t understand why it
won’t contribute to the upkeep of the house - an active social organization at Davidson." Yet, the beneficial results of
the cooperative efforts to maintain...

See KA continued on page 3

Another health care crisis
B.J. Rudell investigates campus infirmary.
NEWS 3

Growing up
Humor columnist Tony Tuntasit returns to The Davidsonian to offer career advice.
OPINIONS 6

ARTS 8
Les fruits de South Carolina
Rachel looks at winemaking in her home state.

Soccer wins first game
Men's soccer beats South Alabama Saturday 1-0.
SPORTS 10
