THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, MARCH 7, 1994

"The question is this: Does Bill Gullan actually know or understand what he writes? Does he understand that even opinion articles need facts to support their ideas? The root of the tragedy in Gullan’s article, “Teach the poor to bake,” is that he ventures into territory that he knows absolutely nothing about: economics. He first questions the idea that government has a responsibility to improve the living standards of the poor. The fact is, the government does have a responsibility. Any respectable student of political science or even history should know that it is the obligation of the government not only to protect its people but also to provide the highest standard of living possible given the country’s resources. When government officials fail to perform these duties adequately, new officials are elected.

Kimberly Kreiling

OPINIONS

There is a cuckoo in the Gull's Nest. When the entire government fails continuously, that is usually the cause for revolutions, as history has shown to the more astute learners among us. Take, for example, two famous revolutions: the French in 1789 and the Russian in 1917. In both instances, the distribution of wealth among the people was immensely disproportionate. Eventually, both rulers of the periods were recorded in history as incompetent monarchs who were subsequently dethroned.

Gullan, undaunted, continues. He mocks the very factors that have fostered the environment of economic growth and development in the United States for the last 100 years: public institutions. How else does Gullan think a country becomes industrialized without an educated workforce? Any student of economic development would understand that one of the biggest factors of human development is capital. Education is needed to develop human skills, and health care is needed to maintain physical skills. How else could economic giants such as the U.S. and Japan maintain their positions without the quality workforce that they've created through public institutions such as public education?

But here comes the big one: in his article of the previous week, “The future American slavery,” Gullan thinks that the best form of government, the one that he believes is best for society, is anarchy. He believes that the government should stop meddling in everyone’s affairs and let everyone do what they want to do. Is that not virtual anarchy?

In a most hilarious quote from Gullan, he questions the government collecting taxes from him and then using his tax money to pay for “services others arbitrarily receive.” He writes: “Why should Robert Maplethorpe get my money? Why should I pay for Hillary Clinton’s transportation?” He asks, “How can a government justify forcefully taking my money (we would call it theft if anyone else did it) and arbitrarily distributing it?”

The hilarity of Gullan’s statements comes from the fact that his only experience with taxes comes from filling out W-2 tax withholding forms, which means he does not pay any taxes at all. Does that mean he is stealing from the government? Is Gullan actually suggesting that each tax dollar should be accounted for and matched with the service received? If so, how much police protection and sanitation service can Gullan actually afford with his present income? This is why Bill Gullan’s articles are so ironic and hilarious.

Another fallacy is Gullan’s interpretation of the collapse of communism as the result of poverty and squalor among its people.

See W-2 on page 10

Holt Vaughan

The issue of the Swimsuit Issue

It was a typical Thursday morning. I had just finished my 8:30 class (that I always go to, of course), and I was on my way to the post office. I always feel confident going to the P.O. on Thursdays because I am guaranteed mail. Sports Illustrated comes on Thursdays. It’s no monumental occasion, but it sure beats the wind tunnel that I get the majority of the time. Anyway, as it turned out, this week was the week that they issued the swimsuit issue. People had been talking about it for a while; I guess I just let it slip my mind. To make a long story short, I was walking back to the famous Little dorm flipping through the issue when a female friend of mine approached me and said rather bluntly (and this is a very abbreviated version):

“Holt, please tell me you’re not looking at that.”

“Well, actually, I was.” (I couldn’t really lie about it.)

“God, that’s so degrading.”

“What is?”

“That!” she said, as she swatted Kathy Ireland’s face on the cover.

“You mean this magazine?”

“Yeah. I can’t believe they have all of those innocent girls in bathing suits like that.”

“What’s wrong with that? It’s not like they were forced to do it.”

“You’re missing the point, Holt. Why do you think that we have such a problem here at Davidson with eating disorders, girls going on crash diets, and things like that? The reason’s because society praises these girls for having good bodies. It’s sick. I mean, all you guys do is look at these girls superficially. You judge them strictly by what they look like. How do you think that makes some girl feel who can’t have that kind of body? Do you know what kind of pressure that puts on girls? It’s a shame what this society has come to. It’s just so degrading...”

To say the least, I was a little taken aback by the way this friend of mine went off. I didn’t really know how to respond. I understood her point and where she was coming from, but I guess you could say that I was not exactly prepared for this kind of debate in the middle of Main Street. Nonetheless, I had to get to my ten o’clock class, so I thanked her for her company and said we would talk about it some other time.

To be honest, I run into discussions like this one quite frequently. This friend of mine is just one of the many people that feel the same way about things such as the swimsuit issue. I have always...

Pee-Wee walking like Arnold

Zamorah continued from page 7

...had given up slothfulness for Lent. As Susan Beale wrote in last week's column, swimsuit madness is happening to me (or was that the greatest love of all?—no matter). I’ve even gone so far as to stop taking the elevator in Chambers, and all of my classes are on the THIRD FLOOR! Yup, I’m pulling out all the stops this Lent. Call it vanity, but I bet you a billion dollars that anyone you find running is doing it because he or she wants to look like Andrew Shue or Elle McPherson, whichever the case may be.

“Uh, excuse me, mister journalist-wanna-be. I run because it makes me feel good. Haven’t you ever heard of a runner’s high, man? It’s unreal. The chemicals in the brain are more powerful than heroin. Just try that buzz once and you won’t be able to quit. Running...is the best time I’ve ever had.” Yeah, and I drink beer to stay in shape. Why can’t you find something better to do with those legs of wire and chest of bird? If I ever want to put forth physical energy to make myself feel good I just—oh, never mind. They censored the article I wrote on that subject. As a result of all this physical activity, I find myself in a constant state of excruciating pain. I can no longer straighten my arms all the way or lift them over my head. So, if you see a guy who looks like Pee-Wee Herman and walks like Arnold Schwarzenegger, it’s probably me. I really need a massage.

I tried to be sensitive to women’s issues, and thus, I have given this argument much thought. And I can’t help but say that I simply disagree. First of all, the swimsuit issue is not pornography. I think pornography is an entirely different story. However, it is correct that the swimsuit issue does “show off” the bodies of these women. Now, I admit that I am no expert in the field of modeling, but it seems to me that these women would be honored to have the opportunity to model for such a prestigious issue. Modeling, like any other business, is a very competitive field. Most likely, these women have been training for this opportunity for much of their young lives. For many of them, it has been their dream to be in the swimsuit issue, and this opportunity will most likely sky-rocket their careers. Not to mention that they are getting paid a tremendous amount of money for what they are doing. Hence, I think it is fair to say that these women were not forced to be models.

Second, I think that one of the problems people have with the swimsuit issue is simply the legitimacy of modeling in general. Many people see modeling as companies using women's bodies to make money. Well, I think that this is true. People are using these women for their bodies. However, my question is how is modeling any different from a professional sport? The owner of a football team will keep a 350-pound man on the line to rough up the opponents. For this, the player will get paid a large salary. But what if this player gets hurt? Do you think that the owner is going to keep the player on the roster simply because he is an intelligent guy? Of course not—this guy will be unemployed because his body is not “usable” anymore. If modeling is immoral, then why is football not considered the same?

Finally, and I think most important to my friend’s argument, is the question of the influence this issue has on other women. Is society to blame for the number of cases of eating disorders? Well, I would have to say that, though I empathize with people that do have eating disorders, I think that it is stretching the argument immensely to blame the problem on society. To blame this problem on things such as the swimsuit issue is using it as a scapegoat. It’s “passing the buck,” as the old saying goes. Yes, I would have to say that people are influenced by these swimsuit issues. I think that it is also fair to say that some people do resort to eating disorders in order to attain looks similar to Kathy Ireland’s. So, what are we supposed to do—eliminate all modeling issues? Yeah, and while we’re at it, why don’t we eliminate all the violence on television and the profanity in music so our innocent children won’t get “corrupted.” If we did this, our crime problems would be solved. Our society would be perfect! Okay, forgive my sarcasm, but I think the point is the same. It is not society’s job to look after our kids. They are going to be exposed to this violence in one way or another. As most people agree, it is the responsibility of the parent to teach our children how to handle this exposure to violence. The same holds true for the swimsuit issue. It is not the fault of this magazine for the eating disorders and problems. It is the fault of the individual. It is not that we have strong people being influenced by a weak society. The real problem is that we have a strong society influencing weak people.

Court opponents can't see the positive side

Greek continued from page 7

draw, no president or other officers. In short, not being an organization severely limited the good things we could do. We could not perform the valuable functions of fraternities, but we could still destroy the same amount of property and drink the same amount of beer. At Davidson, the open-party system prevents the elitism associated with fraternities from alienating the rest of campus. What else is bad about fraternities? The decadence? The drunken vandalism? Those would unfortunately still occur if we all reverted back to just small groups of friends. A drunken independent vandal is no better than a drunk with a pledge pin.

Why is it, then, that certain elements of the Davidson community would eliminate our comparatively mild fraternity system? Is it the lack of service? I know for a fact that many people would not have participated in certain programs had it not been something that the fraternity did as a group. If I sold hot dogs, I would probably not give the earnings to the Arosa House for Battered Women and Children. However, our fraternity decided, as a group, that helping out that organization was worthwhile. Would I be motivated, on my own with my “informal” friends, to raise money for Easter Seals? Probably not. But again, we are doing it as a group. Being an organization with common funds and obligations greatly increases our ability to do good. The opponents of fraternities often disregard the good we do.

One such opponent is Reynolds Price, the author and Duke professor, who spoke at Convocation last year. There was a quote from him two weeks ago in The Davidsonian about “anti-intellectualism” at Duke. He said that the one sentence he hears most often from students is, “I can’t believe how drunk I was last night.” His solution, apparently, is to eliminate fraternities and make all dorms coed. Now, I don’t get this coed thing, but the really dangerous implication here is that fraternities cause drunkenness. That’s like saying that the smoking room causes people to smoke. Sorry folks, but the smoking room does not, awful smell aside, create smokers. Also, the smoking room doesn’t raise money for people who really need it.

So, fraternity men and eating house women, stand up and defend the system that has led to hours of fun as well as a plethora of worthwhile activities. And to those of you who would put a faculty country club where Patterson Court is now, maybe you are the loopy ones who are drinking too much.