THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1994

Tony Tuntasit

This is Davidson? College is the best time of our lives. The other day, my hallmates and I were having
one of those best-years-of-our-lives type days, chewing the fat, having one of those it-just-doesn’t-get-better-than-this conversations when all of a sudden
we all stood up and unanimously cheered, “WHY THE HECK ARE WE PUTTING OURSELVES THROUGH THIS?!!!” Nobody had a clue,
of course, and we all sat around scratching our heads, looking around dumbfounded in the same way that former distinguished
Davidson students, like Woodrow Wilson, Jim Hunt, Patricia Daniels Cornwell, Will Terry, John Kuykendall, and of course, THE POLITICAL STATESMAN
DEAN RUSK!!! did. Still, nobody had the answer. Why did we choose Davidson, now the eighth-ranked liberal arts school in
the nation according to the annual Billy Joe Bob’s Guide to Colleges and BBQ Sauce? But of course, I'd better
find an answer soon, because that’s one of the top questions on the minds of the seemingly harmless graduate school
interviewers who will be barraging me with a Gestapo-style interrogation. I’m having nightmares about this exchange:

INTERVIEWER: Why did you go to Davidson?
ME: Davidson is a good school.
INTERVIEWER: Splendid answer. Davidson?
ME: Yes, I do.
INTERVIEWER: Fantastic. From what I gather so far, you sound like the perfect candidate for this institution.
ME: Yes, I am.
INTERVIEWER: One more thing, the median GPA for this graduate school is 3.9979x10°? What’s yours? Well?
ME: Yes, I am.

At this point of the dream, I usually wake up in a cold sweat and, unable to fall back asleep,
devise mad schemes to counter this graduate school quandary. Perhaps I’ll be able to convince them that it’s the process
of attaining knowledge, not grades, that is important. Perhaps not. Maybe I'll tell them of Davidson’s upstanding heritage and tradition
and how it specifically says in the honorable Code of Responsibility: Thou cannotst get a 4.0, right between the lines
Thou shalt not stuffeth Ben and Jerry’s Ice Cream in thy neighbor’s ears and Thou wilt not droppeth goobers on
the women folk. Or perhaps I’ll be pumping gas at Chevron.

Is a 4.0 that difficult to get? Yes. But people have done it. In fact, I know many people who
have 4.0s and they are wonderful people who play quality tennis, dive in Olympic-size pools, speak in complete sentences, play
very competitive football, bowl like the pros, and cross-country ski down the Alps, all without even leaving the comfort of
their room. The thing is, many of us could have been getting an easy 4.0 at a state school (Wisconsin
Bovine College) without even lifting a finger (although Bison Dung 101 does require manual dexterity). But we’re at Davidson.

Well, as we all study patiently, trying to get that 4.0, locked away in various corners of the library, snuggling
up to people like Mencius or Thackeray, laboring over extensive term papers, losing sleep over political science reviews, developing more
gastric ulcers than the average New York City Drug Enforcement Agent, and basically doing what has built Davidson’s fine reputation,
let me re-emphasize one important thing: college is the best time of our lives. Just what I wanted to hear.

You like this

A Different Perspective: Ike Bailey
Protest is necessary for progress

Kimberly Kreiling
Apologetics with an apology

Authority is not a popular word today. Authority calls for obedience — another hated word. Obedience to authority requires discipline
and motivation — two more bad words. If we have lost our motivation to obey, it is because we have
given up on reason; relativism has replaced universal truth as the popular way of thinking. Is blue really blue? How
do I know this table is really here? Such questions which tear our brain muscles apart have changed the quest
for truth into a quest for any reason at all to make it through another day. Along with this trend
toward the relativity of knowledge, the idea that each person lives within his or her own system of truth has
become a popular one. Even many born-again Christians have a hard time accepting that their beliefs apply to every nation
and tribe. I would like to suggest, however, the existence of universal truth and to give a few reasons for
my adherence to this school of thought.

As humans, we all operate within the same systems of truth, even when we might not be aware that we
are doing so. For example, each time a relativist states that relativism is the nature of human beings, he or
she believes this statement to be true for all people. I would argue that, in the same way, an atheist
is similar to a relativist in his or her declaration that God does not exist at all, in anyone’s life
experience. In the same way, all of us, in daily confrontations over insensitive comments and in other judgments of behavior,
knowingly or unknowingly display our adherence to the systems of universal truth operating in our lives.

One example of universal truth is the moral law under which we all operate. We can easily find evidence of
moral "rights" in the way we commonly declare something “wrong.” I sometimes imply or present falsehoods in speech or in
writing. In fact, my article two weeks ago implied that growing up in a big city had given me too
much experience. Thankfully, Courtney Gilbert recognized this untruth and corrected me in a letter to the editor the following week.
From her correction, I have been reminded that the word “experience” applies to any kind of interesting or remarkable event,
not simply to being exposed to a different culture than my own. Courtney knew, as I do, that one’s ability
to learn and grow does not depend on an environment. For my untrue declaration, I hope she and you will
accept my apology.

“So,” you might say to me, “then why am I reading this article if every statement could be wrong?” To
this question, I would answer that you should continue to read because we share the same God-given gift of reason,
and you might here find a falsehood about which you can prove me wrong. Indeed, by making weekly statements that
I claim as truth; I risk...This kind of public humiliation. Nevertheless, I continue to make these statements because I would
rather lose an argument fairly than never see some points brought up or discussed at all. What I profess to
be the universal truth of ultimate importance is stated more completely in the Apostles’ Creed. I believe in God the
Father, in the forgiveness of sins through the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, His only Son our Lord, and
in the Holy Ghost. While God has objectified Himself in this way, He exists independent of our emotions or our
imaginations. In other words, I do not have this knowledge, but it has me. Of extreme importance is to recognize
that there is great mystery beyond such a profession of faith. While God has revealed to us the way, the
truth, and the life in Jesus Christ, we know that we can only understand such profound reality in a limited,
human way. In other words, we can believe in God's self-revelation as our authority and be lost in this mystery
of truth at the same time. As little children, then, may we all humbly approach the throne of our King
within our hearts, knowing that while for now we can only see as through a glass darkly, one day we
will see Him face to face.

Oliver Neckt, do 97/, ep lem swear.

People often try to convince me of all the progress that has been made toward ending racism and discrimination as
we know it. I am often told to talk about the positive things because everyone is now being treated equally.
It would be illogical for me to think that progress has not been made, but the type of progress is
the real reason for protest. Sure, the African-American middle class is growing at twice the rate of the white middle
class. Sure, new doors are being forced open daily to give African-Americans opportunities that were never possible before. Sure, we
should not forget about the Civil Rights laws and the triumphs over segregation and slavery. But let’s imagine for a
second that educational and employment opportunities were now equally accessible to everyone (try really hard!). Does all of this suddenly
make our standing equal? No! It takes more than a few doggie bones to make things equal. There is a
difference between progress and opportunity.

Land of the Free, Home of the Brave

When we speak of the lack of progress, we are not always referring to our economic opportunities. We usually think
about the constant struggle to be treated as first-class citizens. We think about the stares, the glares, and the other
ignorance-driven reactions we constantly have to deal with. The many beatings and lynchings in the 60s made us protest against
it then. The Rodney King verdict brought the fight back to the forefront a few years ago. The Denny’s Restaurant
settlement brought it to mind again this past summer. The incident that occurred a few weeks ago in Cornelius with
Marcus Williams, a Davidson freshman, brings it home today. Williams was driving back to campus from the grocer’s when he
noticed he was being followed by the police, soon to be pulled over. The officer’s reasoning behind pulling Williams over
was erratic driving. Even though no ticket was given and there was no search warrant, they searched his car and
frisked his friend and him. They searched as if they were looking for illegal substances. They asked probing questions, as
if he were some hardened criminal. Yet these questions were directed at a highly intelligent student who does not use
drugs or drink alcohol. Williams is an African-American, muscular, bald; he drives a car with tinted windows and a car
phone — you know, the characteristics the media portrays as the drug-dealing type. But this polite probing by the nice
officers can’t possibly be due to discrimination, because as we all know, this is 1994, and all of that is
behind us.

Judged by the content of character

I guess Williams and the several other African-Americans who go through this harassment daily should sit back with big, beautiful
smiles on their faces and accept it. Isn’t this the country that professes that all men are equal? Or do
you think those being discriminated against should stand up and try to change things? No progress in this country has
been accomplished without a struggle, without protest. So don’t sit there and tell me we should close our eyes to
reality because everything is so much better than it used to be. Better just isn’t good enough. I was talking
to a white male student the other day, and he said one thing that seemed so simple, but it made
me realize why white Americans don’t see the need for protest: “I don’t think about racial issues that much.” Maybe
you sit in a classroom for 45 minutes three times a week and discuss racial issues. Then you walk out
of the door and distance yourself from such topics. We don’t have that luxury because we live and breathe those
same issues every day. We can’t walk out of some magical door and forget that we are African-American. We constantly
wonder if we are going to be turned down for a job because of the color of our skin. We
constantly wonder when one of us will be the next Rodney King or Marcus Williams. When will we all face
the same amount of struggle? You think we protest for our health? Yes, we do. All of the positive and
progressive things you want me to speak on have come directly through protest. One statement the officer said to Williams
is really indicative of the attitude this country wants us to take concerning the inconvenience of discrimination: “Sorry to have
held you up.” As if such practices should be forgiven and forgotten by us, even though they violate our right
to pursue happiness. And even though they will undoubtedly happen again. We hold these truths to be self-evident, that ALL
men are created equal. Have an opinion? Write it down and throw the paper in the trash, because no one
else really cares. Or put it on a disk, and it might even make The Davidsonian.
