THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1994 11

Rethinking the "Greatest Rock Albums Ever"
by Jacob Abraham

As an aficionado of rock music and a regular reader of the Arts section, I was largely disappointed by Jim
Moss’s sloppy and uninspired summary of the “Best Rock albums ever” in the October 3 issue of The Davidsonian. Mr.
Moss’s article reflects not only a poor knowledge of rock and roll history but also a poor degree of journalistic
professionalism and objectivity. While most criticism of such popular music contains an inevitable element of personal bias and subjectivity, certain
points made by Mr. Moss seem implausible even to a casual listener of rock music like myself. I would simply
like to point out some of the glaring fallacies in Mr. Moss’s article, in the order of the albums he
listed.

(1) Sgt. Pepper’s: The fact that Mr. Moss admits that the Beatles appear on his list only “grudgingly” immediately reveals
a lack of objectivity in musical criticism. Polls of professional music critics have consistently rated Sgt. Pepper’s as the greatest
rock album of all time. The fact that Jimi Hendrix, perhaps the greatest guitar virtuoso in rock music, covered the
title track the same week it was released only attests to the album’s significance. Either directly or indirectly, the Beatles
managed to influence practically every major rock group that followed them.

(2) Dark Side of the Moon: While this album’s influence on the production standards of rock albums may be significant,
the statement that Dark Side contains “some of the best lyrical writing ever” is questionable. Pink Floyd’s lyrics are nothing
to scoff at, but they would surely face serious competition from the works of Bob Dylan or Lennon and McCartney,
among many others.

(3) Synchronicity: Mr. Moss’s claim that the Police popularized “minimalism” in rock and roll is a hopelessly ambiguous and unsupported
statement. How many other artists that predate the Police could qualify as minimalists, including the Velvet Underground and the Beatles?
And how often has the Police’s characteristic blend of early Eighties pop rock and reggae elements influenced other bands outside
the hopelessly derivative pop genre itself?

(4) Led Zeppelin II and (5) Houses of the Holy: Finally, a band appears on the list willingly (as opposed
to “grudgingly”) whose influence cannot be questioned. Mr. Moss correctly mentions that Zeppelin played a primary role in fathering whole
genres of rock music, including heavy metal and punk. However, he offers little support for his claim that Houses of
the Holy is “definitely Zeppelin’s peak performance”—a distinction frequently attributed to any number of their other albums by both critics
and fans.

(6) Appetite for Destruction: Here the list completely disintegrates into biased and insupportable drivel. Mr. Moss insightfully labels this album
as “the number one kick-butt album ever released”... I’m sure that Beavis and Butthead...

See Rock continued on page 13

Coffeehouse: a new forum for artistic expression
By Shayna Chazin

For all you princes and queens of the night out there, Davidson finally has created a place where you can
prop up your feet, fill up your mug with a fine brewed cup of joe, and listen to the sounds
of some interesting voices. Every other Thursday night, around 9:30-12:30 a.m. at the Outpost, we’ve got ourselves a coffeehouse.

It all started last year when senior Sheri Abdalaaty founded the Saturday coffeehouses with the help of a loyal group
of volunteers. Since then, there have been jam sessions, poetry readings, cool breezes, and a laid-back atmosphere well-fitted to balance
out the tension of our schoolwork. This Thursday, come hear a mix of poetry and fiction readings by some of
our budding writers—Alex Crumbley, Rachel Newcomb, Katie Rogers, Holt Vaughan, Shayna Chazin, and Melissa Federoff. There will be an open
mic afterwards, so if you’re not sure whether or not you’d like to read your back-of-a-paper-napkin poetic revelations, bring some
of your stuff and decide while you’re there. The finest of snack-ums will accompany your tea or coffee, and a
donation of some change or a dollar or two will be appreciated by the Coffeehouse committee to support further...culture-quenchers. Hope
to see you there, my friends.

John Travolta on heroin

Pulp continued from page 10

‘The movie is amazingly intense, yet amazingly funny, which is a potent combination. New stories and new characters keep cropping
up in the second and third hours which keeps Tarantino’s tour de force fresh. For two and a half hours,
I was taken on a ride that felt like an adrenaline shot to the heart, and I loved every minute
of it. My only advice is “See the movie, see Uma Thurman, and see the most original filmwork and storyline
in ages.” And DO NOT take your grandma unless she has a strong heart.

Nails . . .

By Lisa
Located Inside Hair World
Full Set (acrylics, gels) $40.00
Fill In (1 broke nail w/fill in) $15.00
Broke Nail (each) $4.00
Buff & Polish $4.00
Manicures $12.00
Pedicures $20.00
10% OFF WITH COLLEGE I.D.
892-1332 © 664-5732

By Kelly M. Dixson

Over the summer Professor Luis H. Peña and Professor Magdalena Maíz-Peña were awarded a prestigious grant by the North Carolina
Humanities Council, an organization that promotes humanities programs in North Carolina. The grant, along with the Davidson Ethnic Concentration and
S.E.R.C.H., will sponsor a program entitled “Ghosts, Power, and Love: From History to Storytelling” on Saturday, October 22, from 8:30
to 10:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium. The program involves a Latin American storytelling lecture/discussion/performance by two women, Olga Loya and
Marjorie Agosin.

Olga Loya is a Mexican-American storyteller whose skills include teaching and performing. She gives classes and workshops in both the
United States and Latin America. Loya declares, “I like to tell stories because they have a way of entertaining, teaching,
and giving people strength. Through stories, people see how other people live, how they think, and how they could live.
Stories are good for the mind and the heart.” A brochure about Loya describes that “a rich tapestry of oral
literature is woven by Olga Loya from traditional and original tales and family and personal histories.” Loya’s presentation entitled “Love
and Ghosts: Stories from South of the Border” proves to be entertaining for all.

Marjorie Agosin is a Chilean writer and literary critic who has written on subjects such as Latin American women writers
and censorship and has recently read her poetry at a United Nations meeting representing the Latin American voice. Her portion
of the program entitled “Scraps of Life” will focus

See Story continued on page 13

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Converse
5 Fragrant wood
10 Ridge on a waferboard
14 Car
15 Baton —
16 A flower
17 Sluggish
18 Excessive
19 Ripening factor
20 Candles
22 Identical
24 Unfaithful one
25 Antlered animal
26 Cleanness
29 Column base
34 In accord
37 Party for men
38 Catch on
39 Level
40 Knight or Danson
41 Connery and
42 Became motionless
43 Firebug
45 Fancy dive
46 John — Passos
47 Fix fraudulently
48 Flowering shrub
53 Site of the Parthenon
57 Rara —
58 Perch
60 Horse's gait
61 Tins
62 Rub out
63 Ireland
64 Actress Lanchester

DOWN
1 Throw
2 Expressive dance
3 On the summit of
4 Lofty
5 Like hard rolls
6 Very long time period
7 Clothing
8 Malarial fever
9 Landed a fish
10 Containers for liquid
11 Latvian city
12 Rudimentary: abbr.
13 Old Phoenician city
21 Deserve
23 Skedaddled
26 Ristorante fare
27 Ventured
28 Certain tide
29 Factory
30 Corn spikes
31 Claw
32 Bowl over
33 Delayer's word
35 Legumes
38 Like idle people
39 Alarm
41 Would-be socialite
42 — accompli
44 Black Sea port
45 Scraped
48 Speed contest
49 Elliptical
50 Does wrong
51 Marsh bird
52 Frost
54 Buffalo's waterfront
55 Nick Charles’ wife
56 Action
59 Dir. letters
