2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1994

Trustees meet, discuss statement of purpose, trustee policy

By Mary Clare Jalonick

Last week, in the second of three meetings for the 1993-94 school year, the board of trustees met to discuss
important issues facing the students, faculty, and administration. The trustees reviewed several major issues at the final plenary session on
Friday, including the new statement of purpose and the mandatory requirement that board members be active members of a Christian
church.

A revised statement of purpose was proposed and put on the table for consideration at the April meeting. According to
SGA president Alden Smith, the most important part of the two-day session was the presentation of a joint resolution between
the SGA and the faculty. The resolution encourages the trustees to reconsider the requirement for trustees to be active members
of the Christian church. Smith says, “I think that Davidson is taking a big step forward with the first joint
faculty-student resolution.”

The visiting trustees had a full schedule. After orientation for the new trustees on Thursday, the board broke up into
committees. Each of these individual groups then made a presentation at the plenary session on Friday. The committees, which are
each made up of board members and a faculty liaison, include Admissions and Financial Aid, Campus and Religious Life, Academic
and Educational Policy, Institutional Advancement, Buildings and Grounds, Athletic Policy, and Finance and Budget.

Thursday night, the board had a reception and a dinner to honor Davidson scholarship winners. Scholarship donors were also invited
so that recipients could meet their sponsors. President Kuykendall talked to the group, and around 20 students put on a
skit.

Smith seems pleased with the outcome of the two-day meeting. “It made for some interesting issues.”

Photo by Tony Wagner
A reception at the VAC allowed scholarship recipients to meet donors.

Solidarity week to focus on diversity

By Phoebe Dean

A KKK march held on Davidson’s Main Street in the mid-1980s inspired Davidson students to start an annual Solidarity Week.
The week continues the effort to heighten appreciation for cultural diversity and to bring the college community together through a
week-long series of informative and entertaining programs.

The Solidarity Week Planning Committee has been working since November to schedule a wider range of events for Solidarity Week
1994. In Vail Commons, students will be able to try eating with chopsticks. Senior Suneya Gupta will host Mexican and
German cooking workshops for students, faculty, and staff February 13-15. The theme of a third workshop is pending.

In the Union Conversation Pit on Monday, February 14, a doctoral candidate from the University of Virginia will share a
user-friendly computer program designed to help people learn about minority groups. Other Solidarity Week events include Imported Beer Night, which
will replace the usual 21-Year-Old Night on Tuesday, February 15. The Women’s Issues Dinner and a “Dating at Davidson” panel
discussion will be on Wednesday, February 16; a wine and cheese tasting and discussion of art censorship with Professor Shaw
Smith on Thursday, February 17; a Southern Traditions Friday Afternoon Club on February 18. The Jumpin’ Java Coffeehouse will host
a compact disc exchange extravaganza in the Union Outpost on Saturday, February 19. Cry Freedom will be shown in the
900 Room at 9:00 p.m. on February 18.

The culmination of the week’s events will be International Night 1994, on Saturday, February 19, in the 900 Room. International
students will share cultural and contemporary traditions from their own countries in the forms of song and dance. Vincent Choo,
co-chair of the Solidarity Week Planning Committee, said that the specific goal...of this year’s committee is to encourage “learning through
fun” and to replace formal lectures with more creative events in order to reach the greatest number of people. “We’re
really pleased to have such a wide range of events this year,” said Sherry Malushizky, Assistant Director of Programs for
the Union. “Thanks to all who are making it possible.” This year’s events are presented by the Solidarity Committee, the
Davidson College Union, Reach Out, and the Student Health Center.

Baker opens, Weight continued from page 1

open to all from 12-6 p.m. and 7-9 p.m. Monday-Thursday, 12-6 p.m. Friday, and 2-5 p.m. Saturday and Sunday. The
smaller room adjacent to the downstairs weight room which formerly housed the free weights will now serve as a multi-use
conference room. The administration believes that work-study students will be able to supervise more effectively if they have only one
room to watch. The weight room on the upstairs racquetball court is open to all students and will be monitored
by the work-study student at the front desk. The administration has decided to keep the football weight room open for
those who are serious about free weights and enjoy working with the coaches. Students who are going to use this
room must continue to sign up for a time slot between 2-6 p.m. and demonstrate commitment. Bo Bartholomew, football player
and sophomore class president, expressed concern that the football locker room rather than the weight room is overcrowded. The availability
of two locations for lifting free weights should alleviate this problem. Morrow stressed the administration's willingness to accept student input,
“we may not be able to satisfy each individual student’s needs, but we will listen to all voices and the
majority will rule. We feel that if students will give us a chance, we can get something that works."

The Davidsonian

MANDY CURTIS - News Editor
KATHERINE HASH, ASHLYN DANNELLY - Ass't News Editors
Staff Writers: Court McBryde, Rachel Dunifon, Sally Stone, Brett Marston, Jay Jennings, Krisy Ford, Martha Knight, Wendy Lee, Carrie Blackburn,
Mary Clare Jalonick, Christy Block, Jenny Schroeter, Lexy Devane, Ross Sloop, Towner Blackstock, Mary Laura Moretz, Phoebe Dean, Jeff Kent,
Jeff Fuller, Beth Lindsay

By Mary Laura Moretz

When students received flyers announcing the semester’s movies at the Union, they noticed a change from past years. The Union
will show such recently released movies as Sleepless in Seattle and Much Ado About Nothing. Previously, the Union featured movies
that had been out of theaters for months or years. Explaining the sudden change to newer movies, Union Board film
chair, sophomore Lylen Ferris says, “I suppose we always could have [had such movies]. It’s really just supply and demand.”
Her committee meets with groups of students to determine what movies will attract viewers. The goal in choosing films, Ferris
says, is “to keep diversity in the films and work within our budget.” Very recent films like The Piano usually
cost around $300, while older films like Apocalypse Now run cheaper. With the new choices in movies ranging from M.
Butterfly to Boyz N the Hood, students seem excited about seeing movies in the Union. Sophomore Mary Gilreath keeps the
film flyer posted on her bulletin board. She says, “A lot of these are movies I didn’t have time to
see or couldn’t afford to see last semester.”

Whatever Your Heart's Desire...

"Remember your Valentines with cards, stuffed toys, frames, and novelties from The Village Store. We have a large selection of
heart-felt gifts and will be happy to wrap purchases for free, and provide shipping service. Valentine's Day is Monday, February
14. 110 South Main Street."
