14 SPORTS MONDAY, MARCH 14, 1994

Richmond Spiders pull out win v. Cats
By Patrick Jopling

In the closest match of the season, the Richmond Spiders came away with a 4-3 victory over Davidson’s men’s tennis team. Davidson had a chance for victory, but a narrow loss in the doubles turned out to be the difference in the match. Russell Briggs and Ryan Harper won the #1 doubles match in a tiebreaker, and Bill Mitchem and Chris Parker lost 8-6. Holt Vaughan and Dan Parham were the last duo on the court, and their match was tied at 8-all. The match went into a tiebreaker, but the Spiders proved to be too tough, as they took the doubles point with a 7-5 decision.

The singles matches split 3-3. The Wildcats had an opportunity at #6 singles but couldn’t hold on. Harper extended his opponent to the third set but fell 6-4 as the match ended. “I was pleased with our team’s effort despite the difficult loss,” said coach Jeff Frank. He felt it was the best match the Cats have played from top to bottom in singles and doubles this year. Standout performances included Vaughan at #2 singles and Parker at #3 singles; both cruised to straight set victories. Davidson’s record now stands at 6-4 after defeating the not-so-powerful Pfeiffer Falcons 6-1 on Friday. The team didn’t play well, but it did not matter. The next test for the Wildcats comes over spring break, when they will play six matches in nine days.

With 5-0 win over UNC-A, golf continues undefeated season
By Neil Marks

The golf team upped its match play record to 4-0 last Thursday with a convincing 5-0 win over UNC-Asheville at the River Run Country Club. Match play format puts individual golfers in head-to-head competition, with the winner earning one point for the team. Stroke play, used commonly in tournaments, adds the scores of each golfer to accumulate the total team score.

Even more impressive is the fact that the 5-0 win came with the team’s top two golfers, Will McDaniel and Sean Mercer, out of competition. Kevin Miller led the team at the number one spot, while Hal Fogleman played as the team’s number two seed. The remainder of the lineup included Aubry Proud, Bob Baily, and Brian Wickendon.

“All of the players played consistently. We’ve played well in match play this year. We’ve beaten UNC-Asheville twice with this format as well as VMI and Winthrop,” said head coach Joe Mark. “I think we’ve made a great deal of progress over the season. Everyone is working hard; the guys on the team are a good group,” said Mark. Mark believes the team will be ready to play its best golf of the year at the Southern Conference Championship which will be held in Chattanooga, Tennessee, in April. This weekend the team will travel to Charleston, South Carolina, for the 15-team Citadel Invitational tournament.

Cats win 2 in a row v. ASU
Baseball continued from page 13

After giving up only three runs in two games on Saturday, the Cats found their troubles on the mound, falling to Appalachian State 9-7. Freshman Mordecai Stolk made his first collegiate career start, fol-

Women's lacrosse optimistic about season
LAX continued from page 13

ing opportunities presented themselves and strong attempts were made at connecting, despite only scoring four times. As communication between teammates increased, so did the success of play. “We were hurt by the fact that it was the first time we have really played together. The other teams are not only older programs, but the core of their team has played together for several seasons,” said coach Kerstin Manning. One strength for the team is speed. Several players exhibited the confidence and unquestionable capability on the fast break. OnceThe Cats have better luck, the fast break will be a dangerous threat to opponents. They match up this afternoon with George Mason and then against Roanoke tomorrow. “George Mason is a new program just like we are,” said Manning. Over spring break, the Cats take on Randolph Macon as their home opener, so for those who return early or don’t leave the campus, go out and support the Wildcats.

Classifieds

EXCELLENT Free Details: SASE to EXTRA INCOME NOW! ENVELOPE STUFFING — $600 - $800 every week International Inc. 1375 Coney Island Ave. Brooklyn, New York 11230

Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $279! Trip Includes Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Hurry! This Will Sell Out! 1-800-678-6386

HELP WANTED: The Rafters Restaurant needs kitchen help Fri & Sat nights 5-10. Please call Rick or Cindy at 663-7322.

Women's b-ball falls by nine

Hoops continued from page 13

Said the team didn’t lose confidence mainly because coach John Filar wouldn’t let them. Although their season was not very successful in the win-loss column, the Wildcats made several strides in other areas of the game that will help them in the next couple seasons. One of the main problems was the team’s size. Most of the other teams in the conference have significantly larger players, prompting Davidson to make a commitment to serious weight training during the off-season. Because this is only the team’s second season, most of the players are freshmen or sophomores, while their opponents are primarily upperclassmen. “We know that in a couple years when we have a more experienced team,” Kirsch said. “We will have the composure of the other teams when it comes to making the right decisions and making the right plays.”

The Wildcats sent a strong message to the other teams in the conference with their play against Georgia Southern. This followed the season in which they gained a reputation of being the hardest workers in the league. “We might not have the skills right now,” Kirsch said, “but we have the heart, the desire, and the effort. Once we get the skills that come with time and put that together with the other things, teams are going to be scared of us. I think that started against Georgia Southern, when the other teams saw us and saw us play well.”

Following an impressive outing a week before, this time would prove to be tougher for Stolk as he gave up six runs in four innings, leaving the game with the Cats down 6-5. The hard-throwing Stolk would end up fanning seven batters to just one walk on a higher note. Mills Arial came on in relief but had a tough time as well, yielding three runs in two innings while striking out three. Senior Brian Heil finished up for the Wildcats on the mound with three shutout innings. Chapman and freshman Brad Edwards both finished up with three hits apiece, and Hall hit his fourth homer of the year to lead the Wildcats on offense. Sophomore Jeff Andrews drove in three runs on a big three-run home run in the fourth inning to pull the Cats within one run, but it proved to be the closest Davidson would get. Chapman had the hot bat for the weekend, going 8-11 at the plate while scoring one and driving in two. Davidson’s next home game will be Tuesday against the highly-ranked N.C. State Wolfpack at 2:30, before facing Yale and New Hampshire on Thursday and Friday at Wildcat Park to finish out the 10-game homestand.

Check Out Our New Boot Selection

SALOMON Vane Timberland

OUTDOORS

SELECT TENTS & SLEEPING BAGS 30% OFF

SELECT SOCKS 40% OFF

Model Boots Shops on the Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn.