"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"  
The Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXV  
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1994  
NUMBER 19

Sophomore Maggie Scott helps a Davidson Elementary student with a biology experiment. On Tuesday afternoon, biology majors helped students with a variety of experiments in Dana.  
Photo by Amy Laukkanen

Apartment lottery leaves most seniors relieved  
By Tamara-Kay Tibby

Debbie Sink in the RLO believes that “there are enough apartments for all the seniors who want them and even for some juniors.” On Wednesday, Residence Life posted the 1994-95 apartment assignments. Seniors who completed the application for an apartment by the February 22 deadline entered phase one. Several seniors were not confident about the process or pleased by its results. Sixteen four-person apartments remain available. Seniors who were not assigned an apartment in phase one of the lottery or who did not complete their applications on time will be entered into phase two if their completed applications are submitted to the RLO by March 15.

Arthur Gaston, whose four-person apartment group was successful in phase one of the lottery, did not get his first choice but was still happy to get one. Because there were more apartments available this year than in previous years, “the uncertainty was taken out of the whole process” for Gaston.

As expected, Martin F, the new five-person apartment which will be ready in the fall, was a hot commodity. Meredith McCullough and her apartment mates for next year “decided that we would try and get the five-person apartment and just crossed our fingers that it would work out. And it did.” For the majority of next year’s seniors, it did “work out.” Some seniors were not as confident about the process or as pleased by its results. Two groups of five which had applied for Martin F were not assigned apartments. McCullough and Gaston are sympathetic because these groups will either have to drop one member or look for other housing options.

See RLO on page 4

Changing of SGA guard

Junior Eric Rosenbach and sophomore Allison Sabel were sworn in as SGA President and Vice President last Tuesday in the Union Outpost. Rosenbach named vision the key word for his term. Past president, senior Alden Smith, and vice president, senior Alice Spivey, gave farewell addresses. Freshman Sarah Beth Hamlin will take Sabel's position as chancellor for the next year.  
Photo by Zik To

Alden Smith congratulates Eric Rosenbach.

Final Four goes to Richmond in 1995  
By Will Cobb

Davidson suffered its biggest upset of the year when the NCAA committee awarded Richmond, VA, the men’s soccer Final Four for the years of 1995 and 1996. The reason for the decision came down to money. The Richmond group guaranteed 17,000 in attendance with the possibility of selling out the 22,000-seated Municipal Stadium. Davidson bid with 13,800, knowing reaching that number would be difficult. With the quick success of the weekend event the last two years, the soccer committee looks to take the Final Four to another level in Richmond.

“As the Davidson coach, I am disappointed because we would have loved to put [the Final Four] on for another couple of years. We are flattered that they feel they are ready to move,” said Charlie Slagle. The decision appears hasty because having the event in Richmond will trade the traditional college atmosphere for a downtown location in a rather unsafe part of town. In light of Davidson's sellout and record attendance last December,one would feel the change unnecessary. “As a college coach, I am concerned whether they can do what they say they can do. If they can’t, we take a step back. For [Davidson], we could not do it for a long term because we made it. See Soccer on page 15.

PHONATHON
By Jeff Fuller

The SGA is now in the midst of its annual Phonathon. Organized through the Development Office, the Annual Fund adds to the college’s annual budget. Over 350 students participate in the drive, by spending an evening calling alumni and friends of Davidson, encouraging them to contribute. The Phonathon is held in the Chambers Multi-Purpose Room on five nights: February 23, 24, 27, 28, and March 1. Each night from 6 to 9 p.m., students representing fraternities, eating houses, independents, and freshmen call asking for money.

On the first night, the independents raised the most money with $7,790.00. The same night Kappa Sig raised $4,775.00, and Phi Delt raised $4,650.00. The next night Warner Hall raised $7,260; PiKA raised $5,295.50; and FIJI raised $1,555.00. Alumni can ask to give their donations to specific areas of the fund and leave messages for professors. Sophomore Lylen Ferris, an independent, noted that the most positive response came from “older alums and recent graduates.” She also remarked that at one point “we made $3,000 in 5 minutes." Ferris enjoyed participating in the Phonathon saying that “it’s a fun, exciting atmosphere.”

Junior Dan Nechemias, a Phonathon committee chairman, said that “the biggest problem is it’s hard to reach people in a three-hour period.” He said that most called were unable to be reached. Freshman Jill Stephenson, a night-chairman for the Phonathon helped recruit 40 freshmen to participate. She said that it’s “harder to get freshmen” because “it sounds so dull when you hear it.” However, “everybody’s responded pretty well considering.”

The Phonathon chairmen--senior Bailey Foster, Nechemias, sophomore Rosie Molinary, and freshman Zik Joseph--spend the evenings distributing and collecting cards which list information about the people called. They also try to create a fun atmosphere for those working on the phones. Each time callers get three donations in a row they get a balloon and a coupon for a free ice-cream cone. Other prizes include tickets for Charlotte Hornets and Checkers games. Students who help out with the Phonathon are given a free t-shirt and five minutes of long-distance calls to anywhere in the U.S.

Nechemias said “It’s important to remember to support the Phonathon because it does so much. . . . It’s a little reminder about how hard people are working to make this a great place.”

inside THIS WEEK
First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

CBS reporter ends conference
Robert Faw is the last to speak at Dean Rusk conference. | NEWS

Trustee dilemma
Chaplain Rob Spach writes in defense of the policy requiring trustees be Christian. But he sees the other side of a difficult issue. | OPINIONS

A missing piece
Davidson still lacks the bands of a big city. | ARTS

Cats win again
Men's basketball beats Marshall handily. After tonight's game against number ten VMI, the Cats head to the So. Con. tourney. | SPORTS