4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1994

Students receive high room damage bills over summer

By Mary Clare Jalonick

In the middle of summer vacation, many students opened their mailboxes to find unexpected bills from the Davidson College Controller’s office. For some, the large amount of money charged for room damages was an unpleasant surprise.

“It ate up a big chunk of my summer’s earnings,” says one sophomore with an unusually high bill, “and I thought that the room was in good condition.”

Many students were surprised to find that the bills were much higher than in previous years. Some had wittingly caused minor damage to their rooms, expecting RLO assessments to be the same as in the past.

Why are charges higher?

Richard Terry, Dean of Residence Life, explains that the higher charges were necessary. “In past years, the rooms have been inspected by students hired by our office. The amounts charged never quite covered the amount spent on repair, so the Physical Plant inspected the rooms themselves this year.” The Physical Plant’s estimates were reportedly much more accurate than those of RLO employees. Terry calls the charges “more objective than ever before.”

Before last year, RLO compensated for the cost that was not paid by students. Since RLO is no longer responsible for this compensation, the office has extra funds. However, Terry says, “It’s all the same ball of wax”; student tuition money pays for all RLO funds.

Alternative billing proposals

Some students have suggested putting a surcharge on the tuition bill so that damages would already be paid for by each student when the end of the year comes. Terry opposes this proposal for two reasons. First, students who keep good care of their rooms should not have to pay anything. Second, since damages would al-

Steel drum band plays at Day at the Lake for the Fall Festival. Photo by Brooke McRae

Absences weaken history department for fall

By Beth Lindsey

Students searching for history courses during the scheduling process this semester were dismayed to discover a smaller number of classes being offered than usual. Junior Jenny Reinhoehl says, “It was extremely frustrating for history majors not to be able to receive the classes they wanted.” Other students were merely disappointed with the lack of variety represented in the courses.

Emily Davis, a junior history major, could not get a course that she needed and was interested in for her major. “There simply were not enough options—especially in the 300-level courses,” says Davis.

Six of the history department's 15 professors are away this semester. While Dr. Price Zimmerman is on his regular sabbatical (every seven years), Dr. Job Thomas is leading the Davidson semester trip to India. Dr. Sally McMillan has taken a leave of absence to complete her current book. Dr. Vivian Dietz is taking advantage of time provided by the college for professors on the tenure track to complete necessary research. After receiving the honor of being “elected to membership” in the Institute for Advanced Studies, Dr. Jonathan Berkey is at Princeton. Dr. Barbara Ballard received notice during the summer that she had received a post-doctoral research grant.

The department did attempt to replace Professor Ballard; however, due to the late notification of her absence, a replacement could not be found. History Department Head Dr. Malcolm Partin says, “We held interviews for the position but didn’t feel the candidates could do the job we wanted done. Therefore, no offers were made.”

Partin agrees that the number of classes offered this fall is smaller than usual, but he feels that the department has by no means been depleted this semester. Professor David Munsick has been hired as a visiting professor and is teaching two classes this fall and three in the spring. Partin also points out that two of the six professors goneThis semester would not have been teaching a full load of history courses this fall due to their participation in the Humanities program and Thomas’ involvement in the art department. Most importantly, Partin reports, “There was no great flood of majors who didn’t find something during drop/add this semester.” While all senior majors had spots in the mandatory Senior Colloquium, the regular number of senior seminars was also offered. Ceilings were also raised in cases where it was deemed necessary. While the 300-level courses were the hardest hit, “the only real complication occurred when Professor Ballard’s 240 class was listed in the spring but then could not be offered,” says Partin. Firmly believing the position would be filled, the class was left on the course listing; however, when the replacement was not found, the class simply could not be staffed.

Partin says it comes down to a balance between an excess of “student inconveniences” and providing the staff with enough opportunities for “professional scholarship.” The department was hit with more needed absences than usual. As far as the remaining staff is concerned, there is no added strain on other history professors. Partin says, “Some ceilings are higher, but this has been done before.” A regularly-scheduled departmental study will begin despite all the absences, but it does not necessarily need to be completed this year.

So where does this leave students searching for history courses? Partin says to look to the spring for more history courses than usual. According to the current schedule for the spring, seven seminars will be offered, along with seven 300-level courses with European, American, and even Mexican history well-represented. With many staff members returning well-rested and more knowledgeable than ever, students will find no shortage in the number or variety of history classes offered this spring.

Where do damage charges go? The money paid by each student goes toward labor and material. Many rooms must be spackled and replastered, and each room is repainted every five years. If a room looks like it will have to be repainted in less than five years, then a student may be charged for a percentage of the painting that will be done. For example, if a room will have to be repainted after four years (20% earlier than normal), the student might be charged 20% of the cost to repaint.

How can students avoid charges? Terry advises students to steer away from foam adhesive tape and large nails. He recommends scotch tape, smaller nails, and tacks. He also says that it is important to remove the nails in such a way that will remove as little plaster as possible from the walls. Pleased with the outcome of the new system, Terry welcomes any student to come by and review their check-out forms with him. He can explain the costs and re-evaluate them if there is a discrepancy. In general, he expects most charges to be accurate: “I have great faith in their (the Physical Plant’s) assessments.”

Have a story idea? Call Ashlyn x2148.

Welcome Back, 'Cats! Get your school year off to a great start with a visit to The Village Store. We carry calendars, planners, and wall clocks to keep up with your busy schedule. Organizers to keep up with your busy desk. And in colors that pop. Plus, a wide variety of fabulous gifts and greeting cards for any occasion. See why thousands of Wildcats have shopped at The Village Store for 27 years. 110 South Main Street, Davidson.

BEN & JERRY'S
507 Providence Rd. The Arboretum 543-8333
202 S. Main St. Davidson 892-0604

A GIANT DELICIOUS BROWNIE WITH BEN & JERRY'S FAMOUS ICE CREAM, HOT FUDGE, AND WHIPPED CREAM
333-1003