THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS - MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1994

Ken May - Uninvited Guests

It all started with that box of 100 assorted Blow Pops my grandparents sent with me to school. Aside from
the cavity quotient, not a big deal, right? HA!!! Little did I know the stir these sweet gems would cause.

When I first came to school and peeked in my door to have a look at my new room, I
was not at all impressed. Dust and dirt all over the place, smudges on the walls and ceiling. Let’s just
say “clean” was not the first word that came to mind. But it was still tolerable and nothing a little
sprucing up wouldn’t handle. Until I opened the upper storage cupboard. That was when I met my new roommates. Yes,
there were several tiny sugar ants gnawing on old cookies, bubblegum, and an odd gummy worm. Needless to say, they
were quickly terminated and I didn’t give it another thought for over a week.

Then came what will hereafter be referred to as the Blow Pop incident. After a long day of class, I
came back to the room and reached for a sweet delectable Sour Apple Blow Pop to calm my furrowed brow.
But what’s that crawling up the side of the box? Wait, there’s another one. And another! Holy cow!! They’re all
over the place. ANTS! ANTS! ANTS! In a minor state of frenzy, I checked my other food supplies. Everything was
infested, crawling with those little buggers. Yuck! All in all, I think the death toll was over a hundred ants
that afternoon. The sealed bags of chips and all salvageable food were quarantined in the fridge.

The next day I got an ant trap and put it in my cupboard. Let me tell you, for the
next week those foodnappers came out in full force from several different nest sites around the room. How gross! But
I survived. And since the exterminator came, I haven’t seen one ant yet (though the bodies of several deceased dot
the landscape).

Anyway, my question is this. Why is my room infested with ants who seem to think my sole duty in
life is to feed them dinner? Why was the old food from the previous occupants not cleaned out during the
summer? Why were these occupants eating cookies and gummy worms in their upper storage cupboard? These thoughts and many others
I address to Residence Life. Freshman Hall Counselor Phil Ewing has notified me that one of his freshmen found a
half-eaten Amici’s pizza in their cupboard. Come on now! Is it too much to ask that our rooms, if not
clean, at least be free of pests? I think it’s high time a little more care was put into making
sure the rooms are presentable by the first day of school. After all, much of a student’s life is spent
in his room, and everyone has the right to a non-hostile living environment. As for my unwanted roommates, the very
least they could do is help me defray the cost of housing. And ask the next time they want a
Blow Pop.

Kimberly Kreiling - The Giant Feast of Experience

The past few weeks I’ve been trying to decide whether or not I should study abroad next semester or stay
at Davidson for eight consecutive semesters. Something occurred to me today that has pushed me towards staying here. I realized
that the last thing that I need in my life right now is another experience.

I'd been weighing the pros and cons for a while. The negative side, I thought to myself, would be enduring
another change of lifestyle and hauling my car across the country to New Mexico, where my parents have recently relocated
themselves and with them our garage. The positive side, as people keep telling me, would be to gain “the Experience.”
I wonder if these people knew why I would always cringe at that dreaded suggestion.

I don’t know if many people here have ever been to New York, but I grew up there, for better
or for worse. To let you know how over-experienced I was, my main requirement when I was college-searching was somewhere
secluded where nothing too exciting would happen to me for four years. I needed a place where I could digest
what felt like a lifetime of shocks to the system. I have to occasionally remind myself that I’m only halfway
to my goal.

To more poignantly express my situation, let me reflect with you on the experience of a day in New York
City this summer, although I’m sure I’m not a good enough writer to sufficiently paint the local color of my
hometown upon this bounded page of black and white. It was early one Saturday in July, bright and sunny at
that, and already the singing wheels of that underground sewer of public transportation they call the subway were pulling me
to the shores of Coney Island. The idea came up at the breakfast table when my sister, flipping through the
Times, enthusiastically proclaimed, “Oh, there’s a mermaid parade at the beach fair today!” Well, the Kreilings never miss a mermaid
parade, so before long we called two friends and were on our way.

Oh how I love the clink of a token as I pass through the turnstiles at the corner of Lexington
and 86th. If you ever feel like having an experience, forget JYA. Just fly to NYC and hop on the
train. We had been entertaining ourselves by translating the Spanish ad for a gum-disease doctor, when a large, bearded Long
Islander accosted us with a hint of discontent in his voice. “Hey- Are you dumb or what?” he asked us.
We looked at each other questionably. “This man (to whom he then pointed) has been sitting across from you, waiting
until the next stop, when he will grab your bags and split.” Our eyes lowered to the young gentleman across
from us, focusing on his pre-sprint posture and hand strategically placed upon his knee, inches away from my Dooney and
Burke. “Sir,” I scornfully answered the man, “I resent your accusation of this innocent citizen.” And with my comment he
shrugged and left four girls paralyzed by the stare of our new potential-robber-friend. The tension built with every graffiti-stained station
we passed, until at last I felt a burst of courage from within. The train stopped,the doors slid open, and
I made a successful run for the stairs. Free at last, but stranded in Queens, I spent the next few
hours wandering around the subway system, looking for my friends who I only hoped would be able to exhibit my
level of bravery and strength. I eventually met up with them at a Nathan’s Franks stand by the Cyclone, the
world’s oldest roller coaster, or so I’m told. (Having predicted the occasional subway thief interaction, we’d previously designated this meeting
place.) The mermaid parade, in which anyone can participate, provided loads of enjoyment, and we joined in with a local
public grade school’s personalized rendition of “I don’t know but I’ve been told, P.S. six is made of gold...” After
the parade for which we’d trekked across two boroughs, we followed the masses in gawking at daredevil skydivers fall out
of planes, although we decided not to wait around to get their autographs. We took some time to swim in
the oil spillage and lay out between the even oilier bodies. For a while I stared at a dancing couple,
both dressed in their pink bikini-wear, doing the cha-cha on their sandy towel. Then my attention was stolen by the
tattooed muscle man from the fair stripping down to his black leather briefs. Quickly searching for a different distraction, I
began to count the odd places that people had found on their bodies to pierce, and I even considered an
eyebrow ring when I later passed the booth. The multitudes of languages and blasting radio stations and varieties of skin
and hair color and smell are simply too motley to describe in this short space. Alas, I cannot capture the
essence of the day with justice served. I hope, however, that I have made clear my point. The giant feast
of Experience does indeed lay waiting just around the corner, ready to be devoured by hungry college students. While some
may will to revel in its savory pleasures, I must opt for the fast. Sure, there’s more of the world
out there to be seen, but for now returning to my blue-ridged haven each semester is a privilege I too
much enjoy. Government ruins everything, even my occasional little reverie.

Muggy from page 8 money, and exhaustion) to three or four nights per week, and our television and VCR were
constantly in use. After we found that we could not charge the Bikini Open on Pay-Per-View to the last resident,
we stuck to Blockbuster, renting Dazed and Confused way too often, and watching Headline News for the latest O.J. update.
At this point, let me interject how innocent Mr. Simpson is, and how embarrassed I am to admit taking an
afternoon off work to watch the preliminary hearing. But either way, I read last week in the checkout line at
Dover’s that Mr. Simpson recently gave birth to an alien child, which should take his mind off his legal troubles.
Being in such an important city prompted me to think more than I would have liked. Often, I simply observed.
Washington is so interesting. It is a city where Cracked Cymbals by Michael A. Slayton creates a diversion while Max
appropriates treats. Marion Barry can get elected, World War III can be launched, a mass transit system can work, and
anyone can drive a cab. Wait, let me emphasize that anyone can drive a cab in Washington, D.C. I was
on my way from one bar to another one night with some laughing friends, and our cabby drove with both
feet and no shoes. And this was a warm night. His feet reeked. And I’m not advocating deprivation of a
job simply for smelling bad (my roommate would be permanently unemployed), but a professional driver should not drive with both
feet. And the way he was zipping around those turns. People say that ownership is not a powerful incentive to
perform, but let me tell you that this guy would not have driven like this in his own car. But
away from blurry nights in cabs. There were many moments of epiphany this summer. Between acts of Miss Saigon, I
was out on the balcony at the Kennedy Center, which overlooks the Potomac River and northern Virginia. It was beautiful
with the fountains and the pink 9 p.m. sky. In fact, it was one of those times which, if I
didn’t have a brain, would make me an environmentalist. However, I realized I was gazing at the Key Bridge from
a balcony toward skyscraping hotels, all of which were man-made. Then my thoughts were interrupted by some obtuse Congressional interns,
one of whom was bragging that the guy he worked for took him to the Capitol Dome, which was much
prettier than this. Yeah, right, buddy, he took you up there only because there was another pile of constituent mail
there for you to sort. At that precise moment, I realized that government ruins everything—even my occasional little reverie. I
mean, how many times have you been woken from a dreamy sleep by government workers wanting to do something stupid.
I’ve been disturbed many a time by construction workers, and even once by a 6 a.m. fistfight between two garbage
men on my front walk. Anyway, though, the state is not only inefficient, it’s dumb, as these new interns were
once again demonstrating. I did have one more epiphany that you might consider interesting. I always thought that liberals were
sanctimonious. Try getting a group of college conservatives together! You should hear them. And yes, although they are better dressed,
they have the same annoying habit of yelling in furious spasms of agreement at people whose philosophy they share. A
group of obsessed moralists is the same, whether they are called S.E.R.C.H. or Pro-Lifers of America.

So let me close. My summer was great. I’m not only feeling the results in my waistline and checkbook, but
in class where I know more about things political and on the hall where I know more about life. And
the song that is blaring as my memories fade to the credits is Bob Seger’s “Turn the Page,” for another
chapter in my life has been written leaving its indelible mark on those to come. Life is kind of like
Calculus—it builds on itself every day; however, you cannot take it pass/fail.
