6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1994

This Week in Washington

GATT gives both Clinton and Congress big victory

By Andrea Short

A bipartisan effort successfully pushed GATT through Congress this week, giving President Clinton his first victory since the elections. Both
critics and supporters expect the multi-national trade accord to bring significant changes in the American economy; the two groups just
don’t agree on which direction those changes will take our economy.

GATT, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, will reduce tariffs by one-third in more than 100 nations. This accord
also creates an administrative body to determine the standards of trade-related practices, such as employee safety and environmental regulations. This
body, the World Trade Organization, will oversee the participating nations as they set trade standards.

In Washington, the issue has transcended party lines. Both parties’ diligent efforts were crucial in the fight to pass GATT
through Congress. Earlier in the week, Clinton invited Republicans to the White House for the first time since the midterm
elections. Prominent Republicans, such as the soon-to-be Majority Leader Bob Dole and Representative Dick Armey, a powerful Texas Republican, stood
beside President Clinton while he urged Congressional support for GATT. Gaining Senator Dole’s support, which President Clinton achieved in a
compromise session before Thanksgiving, cleared away the last major obstacle in Clinton’s quest to pass GATT.

The House passed the measure on Tuesday with a vote of 288 to 146. Analysts had predicted that passing the
measure in the Senate would prove more difficult, but the Senate passed GATT by a 76-24 margin. The voting procedure
was slightly more difficult in the Senate because its internal rules demand that any legislation likely to increase the federal
deficit, as most believe GATT will, must first gain 60 votes in a procedural vote. The Senate agreed to waive
the rule by a vote of 68 to 32.

GATT will stand as the 103rd Congress’s last piece of legislation. GATT passed easily, but popular opposition has been growing
in recent weeks. Well-known political figures, including Ross Perot, Pat Buchanan, and Ralph Nader, have expressed their opposition to the
bill. Most Congressional resistance to GATT has come from states with industries which are heavily subsidized by the federal government.
Despite dissatisfaction from these states, President Clinton praised the Congress’s action, and called for its similar cooperation in January. Clinton
stated in a victorious press conference Thursday night, “Let’s make the GATT vote the first vote of a new era
of cooperation.”

ELSEWHERE

Disney goes P.C.

After the outcry over Disney’s Aladdin that portrayed Arabs as bloodthirsty, the studio’s being careful with its newest animated musical,
Pocahontas. The tale of the Indian girl who saved John Smith is coming in June. Producer James Pentecost says filmmakers
repeatedly journeyed to Jamestown to meet with tribal groups, consult on dances and war paint, and brought in Native American
actors to furnish voices. The film’s P.C. prospects are helped by the exclusion of her problematic later years, in which
she was kidnapped by settlers, converted to Christianity, and married one of her captors. Subversion of morally superior indigenous culture!
Pentecost says such considerations weren’t a factor.

November 21, 1994 Newsweek.-from Kendall Hamilton’s “No Red Faces, They Hope,” published in the Students can give books to local
children Angel continued from page 3 Blume. All books purchased for angels are available at a 20 percent discount. After
purchasing the book, the customer can wrap it themselves or request that an employee wrap it (a popular option for
less dexterous customers). The purchaser then has his or her name written on a star to be hung on the
tree in place of the angel. The last day to purchase books for Angels is December 15.

Davidson is the only school in the nation that requires all students to learn CPR.

Choke continued from page 1
“...who didn’t take the class seriously, but it helps to know about this stuff,” says Woodward. He explains that even
though some people might not have paid total attention in PE 101, “it’s better to know something than nothing.” Judith
Krenzer, Assistant Director of Physical Education, is proud of the students and says their actions reflect that first aid skills
can be used not only at school but also in the community. “That woman could have been in serious condition
if Brian hadn’t been there,” she says. Davidson began requiring freshmen to learn first aid and CPR three years ago.
“We’re the only school in the nation that requires all students to have CPR within the framework of a class
like that,” said Krenzer.

Gardner is excited about the Angel Tree project and hopes to be able to offer it every Christmas season. If
the number of books already sold is any indication, this project will be quite successful. She and the rest of
the store workers have enjoyed watching members of the Davidson community choose old favorites from the shelves to give. But
no one will appreciate the project as much as the children who receive very special gifts this Christmas.

Actually, the Performa 636 8/250 3 with CD-ROM, Apple Color Plus 14” Display, Keyboard, and mouse. Only $2,083.58. With Apple’s
special low student pricing, you can get a terrific deal on Macintosh, the best-selling personal computer on college campuses today.
You can choose the affordable Macintosh Performa, which comes complete with lots of powerful software to help get you through
college. You can also choose the portable Apple PowerBook or the Power Macintosh—the world’s fastest Mac. And because Macintosh is
still the easiest personal computer, you won't have to dig through complex manuals. Plus, with low student pricing, a Mac
is as easy to afford as it is to use. All of which makes it the ideal time to discover
the power all college students need. The power to be your best. Apple.

Apple PowerBook 150 4/120. Only $1,528.94. AppleDesign Keyboard and mouse. Only $2,973.40. For further information visit Computer Services Center. Contact
Lou Duncan at x2432. *Note: Desktop systems include a StyleWriter II printer, WordPerfect, and a surge suppressor. PowerBook 150 includes
8MB RAM plus WordPerfect. All prices include shipping and tax. ©1994 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple
logo, Macintosh, Macintosh Quadra, Performa, PowerBook, and “The power to be your best” are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.
