THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 25, 1994

With Baker scholarships, Davidson can compete for cream of the crop

By Mary Clare Jalonick

“Davidson already has the best students, but with this money we will be able to continue to attract the best in an increasingly competitive environment,” says Gardner Roller Ligo, Merit Scholarship Coordinator, in reference to the $5 million in scholarship money donated to Davidson last week by Thompson S. Baker.

A plan for the money has not yet been formulated, but Ligo looks forward to sitting down and devising one. She hopes that the money will reward “a wide variety of students with a variety of skills.” The money will most likely go toward a flagship scholarship program for entering freshmen. Such a program will draw attention to the school and give recipients more money than Davidson has ever been able to offer. It will also enable the college to offer more scholarships for special internships, international experiences, and mentorships.

Nancy Cable Wells, Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid, says that with the creation of the Baker scholarships, “Davidson has firmly established itself in the arena of highly competitive institutions.”

Other new scholarships

In addition to the Baker scholarships, several other new merit scholarships have been established this year. The most prominent of these are the Will Terry scholarships; these $15,000 four-year scholarships will be awarded to two incoming freshmen who excel in leadership and academics. Other new additions to the program include the Rosmarie Bearden scholarship, which provides $10,000 a year for two African-American students majoring in the visual arts, and the Cato-McFarland Jenkins scholarship, which provides $3,000 annually for women interested in business careers.

The growing merit-based program

Regarding recruiting top-level students, Ligo says that Davidson “is not in the business of buying students, but inviting their interests. If Davidson is the best match for a student, then we would like to open the door a little farther for them.”

Roughly 10% of each entering class is awarded a merit scholarship. In addition to merit and leadership-based scholarships, need-based general merit scholarships are awarded. Awards for special skills, such as creative writing or excellence in the fine arts, are also distributed. Students must apply for the most prestigious scholarships. Some of the more prominent scholarships include the Patricia Cornwell Prize for excellence in writing, the Dow Chemical Company Foundation Scholarship for possible chemistry majors, the Pepper Merit Scholarship in studio art, and the Williams Challenge scholarships for students considering the ministry.

Although most merit scholarships go to entering freshmen, there are a few granted to currently enrolled students. The Stuart Scholarship, recognizing academic strength and leadership in four rising juniors, is one of these scholarships. Also, several departmental scholarships exist based on excellence in particular fields.

Dean of Admissions Nancy Cable Wells is particularly excited about the Class of ’94 senior class gift, which establishes a fund that will reward merit and need-based scholarships. With 100% participation, the gift will grow each year and continue to give for posterity. With new money coming in each year, the merit scholarship program is becoming one of the most competitive in the state. Ligo sums up the department in a sentence: “We are not here to buy, but to encourage and provide access.”

Former history professor Shi selected Furman President

By Wendy Lee

Former Davidson history professor David Shi has been named president of Furman University.in Greenville, South Carolina. Shi, 42, left Davidson last year to take the position of Vice-President for Academic Affairs at Furman and will officially begin his presidency June 1. During Shi’s 17 years at Davidson, he was the Frontis W. Johnston Professor of History and served as the department chair from 1987 to 1992. He was the 1982 recipient of the ODK Teaching Award. “Furman’s future is so bright that it burns my eyes merely to envision it,” Shi said in an address to the Furman community following his appointment to the presidency. Davidson history professor Malcolm Partin called Shi a “20th century American intellectual and cultural historian” and “a man of rare energy and ability.” Partin added, “I am not surprised that he should become president of Furman. He will do a wonderful job.” Todd Haynie, a senior history major, took two classes with Shi and said, “Dr. Shi was the best professor I’ve had since I’ve been here at Davidson. The way he deals with students will make him a successful president. He’ll be well respected and will do a great job.” Partin commended Shi for “helping to introduce the senior colloquium and Kelly Program into the Davidson history department.” Shi, a 1973 graduate of Furman, said, “It is a special privilege to be summoned by my alma mater. While widely recognized as South Carolina’s flagship private college, Furman is on the threshold of being one of the country’s most distinguished liberal arts colleges.” Furman’s current president, Dr. John E. Johns said, “I can truthfully say there is no one I would rather have succeed me than David Shi. He will make a great president and a thoughtful spokesman for higher education.” About Furman’s future, Shi said, “We are going to continue to promote what I call the new liberal arts, encouraging students not only to study a wide range of disciplines, but also to apply the principles of liberal learning in a practical way, either through a research project, an internship, or a study abroad experience.”

Italian Style Pizza
May 8th (Sunday) at 3 p.m.
Going Away Party for all Davidson Students!
Free Food (Bring Your Own Drinks)
Thick or Thin Pizza (the fresh Italian handmade pizza)
Open 7 days
Phone: (704) 892-4570
Free Delivery
10% off senior citizens and Davidson College Students
Take out or eat in only
Notice: (please call ahead for pickups)
Monday - Saturday: 11:00 A.M. - 1:00 A.M.
Sunday: 2:00 P.M. - 10:00 P.M.
211 N. Griffith Street
Located in Sadler Square, Davidson, NC 28036
I-77 Exit 30, Near Davidson College

One Topping $5.55 + Tax
Carryout only
Additional toppings 95¢ each
Not valid with any other coupon
Valid only at participating stores

One 14" Large One Topping $6.98
Additional toppings 95¢ each
Not valid with any other coupon
Valid only at participating stores

One 14" Large with the “Works” & One 14" Large Two Toppings $19.96 + Tax
Additional toppings 95¢ each
Not valid with any other coupon
Valid only at participating stores

Davidson Historical Site
Remember Mom on Mother's Day, Sunday, May 8 with:
- Crabtree & Evelyn soaps and lotions
- Romantic and practical travel bags
- Crystal boxes, votive holders or lamps
- Portmeirion Stoneware
Countless other very special gifts as well as cards.
Complimentary wrap service and shipping service.
110 S. Main Street, Davidson