8 I sat at the front door with tears streaming down my face. My older brother and sister had just left for the skating rink without me. As the tears poured out, I screamed the words to a popular song while struggling to catch my breath. “What about me? It isn’t fair. I’ve had enough, now I want my share. Can’t you see, I want to live, but you just keep taking my life away.” It was the summer before third grade. My brother and sister were in high school, and they were free to run around with their friends. I was confined to the area within the sight of my parents, a rule I found very difficult to understand. My young perceptions told me I was being deliberately left out. I had no concept of the age differences between us or of the fact that responsibility comes with age. I could only see that my family had a conspiracy to leave me all alone and desolate forever. My singing didn’t work. My family disregarded me by assuming I was singing a popular song to entertain myself. My desperation and self-pity inspired me to write my own song. This time, they were going to the mall. I sat prominently in the living room, waiting for an invitation. As my sister bustled about and the stench of perfume followed her, I made my presence very apparent. Nothing happened. They left for the mall, and I sat in the living room astonished that I had been abandoned again after such a blatant effort to try to get invited. As my parents talked, I began to sing my song. “Nobody loves me, nobody cares. I could die and nobody would be there. This is the life I have to live. Don’t you feel sorry for me?” Again, nothing happened. I sat and cried while my family went on with its normal activities. It took me several more pity sessions to realize nothing was going to happen; I was not suddenly going to be granted the rights of teenagers because I sang a sad song while I cried shamelessly. I realized then that I was responsible for my own happiness. I could sit and cry all day while focusing on all the injustice I unfairly had to face, or I could realize that there was nothing I could do to change the rules of my household. I would have to achieve happiness in a different way. So many times in our lives, we get caught up in the injustice that has fallen upon us. We sit, ignorant of natural disasters, starvation, deprivation, torture and useless bloodshed, aware only of our personal misfortune. If we can get away from our realm of self-pity, we realize that we create our unhappiness by seeing things we don’t have and things we can’t change and dreaming otherwise. I don’t deny that bad things are happening in this world and that some people fulfill themselves with unkind acts. And there are many things that we can’t do for whatever reason, and we may not ever be able to do them. We can, however, eliminate the pity we tend to feel for ourselves by focusing on the things we can do and do have and the possibilities of change for the things we truly can influence.

Christopher Edgar Frampton

Health care: Should we renovate or should we move?

The Clinton administration is fond of telling all those who care to listen that the country is in the midst of a health care crisis. The proposed solution to this crisis is a complicated strategy designed to provide every American with guaranteed coverage. Your health, it seems, is your right. The Republican response to the White House is similar. The Republican leadership and its spokesmen on the issue have been willing to go so far as to declare a health care emergency. True to form, that party is opposed to any large government program, which the White House proposal clearly advocates. Meanwhile, the American people are left to wonder what all the fuss is about. The plan is sort of a warranty on your body, guaranteed for life or your tax dollars back. However, I don’t need the government to pay for my medical costs, and most people at least half agree. Polls as recent as last Wednesday show that we believe insufficient medical coverage to be a major problem for the country. However, polls also show Americans would prefer the government control violent crime rather than worry about the victims’ medical costs. What is not on the minds of the voters, Clinton’s so-called policy wonks, or members of the media, is whether all of the attention health care is receiving from those in Washington is valid discussion for members of a democratic society. Make no bones about it: the Clinton plan is socialized medicine, and the Republican plan, while only guaranteeing access to care—whatever that means—is just right of left field. One of the plans may work. At some point, Washington’s collective mind will introduce a successful social program. Sadly, it has been quite some time since the American people were so blessed. But why does any American have the right to health care? Certainly, the authors of the Constitution did not feel the need to guarantee such a right. Their problems had a lot more to do with finding a doctor than actually paying one. Perhaps the right to healthcare is one based on our ability to be humane. It is more a matter of being considerate towards fellow man than a matter of what is decreed by a country’s founding fathers. Providing medical coverage is certainly a noble goal. As mentioned above, however, the administration is proposing socialized health care. That means that you do not pay for health care out of your pocket—the plan is sort of like a warranty on your body, guaranteed for life or your tax dollars back. Essentially, the White House intends to take money from us to provide us with our own health care. This is, of course, over-simplified, though a good indicator of the base theory behind the new proposals. We already sacrifice house payments, college educations, and so forth for our own health-care expense, but that is our choice. What the President is proposing eliminates that choice. We pay for health care, no matter what. That is fishy at best. But what of those unable to provide health care for themselves and their families? What of the humanity discussed above? There is no need for America to leave them out in the cold. America can protect its less-fortu-nate. In fact, it already tries. For some reason, everyone has forgotten that the troubled social security plan was and is designed to provide medical aid to those in need. Washington, it seems, has decided to buy an expensive new house when all that is needed is a renovation. And even before that, the American voter would prefer that we simply buy a security alarm.

SISYPHUS NO MORE
Detoured by Tribune Media Services

Davidson distinguishes itself.

NCAA continued from page 7

team in those pressure-packed closing seconds. The Georgetown players and coaches, heartbroken though they were, stood and applauded the Tar Heels and politely answered every condescending reporter’s questions. The class with which they handled that defeat made me a Georgetown fan at that very moment. And even though they probably laughed at my application, I’ll be a Georgetown basketball fan forever. I’ll bet that Davidson gained many fans on Sunday night. By being cool and disciplined during the game and classy afterward, our team demonstrated what Davidson College produces: physically, mentally, and emotionally tough people. Terrific job, fellahs, you made us all proud.

Unfortunately, CASE awards and honor codes don’t get much air time. Schools like UNLV, which has the second-best hotel management school in the country, and Florida State are degraded because of the shameful behavior of their athletes. The trash-talking, the scandals, and the stupidity of many college athletes reflect very badly on their respective institutions. When the red light of the camera goes on, it is up to the student-athlete to represent his or her school in the best way possible. Our basketball team did that, as do all of our teams every time. That is just another thing that sets Davidson apart. Davidson students and alumni distinguish themselves every day on the playing field, in the classroom, and in all professions. It does not take long to understand what a special institution we are. It is demonstrated constantly by the courtesy with which we treat one another and by the successes we achieve in all facets of life. So, once again last Sunday, if you’re keeping score, chalk one up for Davidson.

The weight room is an acquired taste.

Crybaby continued from page 7

the walls in every weight room I’ve ever seen (and I’ve seen quite a few on TV). The reason they are there is for men to flex and admire their large pecs (I’m already picking up on the lingo). Although everyone does it, to be caught doing it is incredibly embarrassing. It’s kind of like—never mind, I’ll censor myself again.

I never talk to girls in the weight room. After all, it is me and besides, I’m there being macho. The only time I had intercourse with a girl in the weight room was when a charming young lady asked me if I could pick up some weights for her. They were too heavy for her, you see. Well, as it turned out, they were too heavy for me, too, but I would never let anyone else know that. I am macho, after all. So I gave myself a hernia, but I got points (in my own mind, at least) for being a he-man.

I hope that I didn’t depress you too much in this article. I’ll try to regain my zest for life over Spring Break. I plan on escaping from reality as much as I possibly can. Who knows? I may get my creativity back.

Rob King

The darker side

Have you ever felt completely alone as you stood among a group of your closest friends? Have you ever felt like no one in the world could understand the intense pain of your life? Have you felt that God doesn’t exist, or if God does exist then He or She couldn’t care less what happens to you? If you have experienced such feelings, you are not alone. I suspect that every human who has ever lived has experienced such feelings of loneliness, pain, and abandonment.

Recently, at our Davidsonian writer’s dinner (they pay us in food), our esteemed opinions editor Bobby Ramsay joked, “If you want to know that there is a God who loves you, you can read Rob King’s articles.” I appreciated the comment, but I feel it misses the reality of our individual lives. I’m sure many of you have seen or at least heard about the recent movie Schindler’s List. For those of you who have seen it, I’m sure that you would agree that it is impossible to dismiss the reality of our own great potential for evil given the systematic extermination of over six million Jews. If our Judeo-Christian concept of God does exist, how can such an atrocity be allowed to happen? On more personal terms, how can God have allowed my mother to die from cancer when I was only a little boy? I wish I had an answer to both questions. I can speculate, but ultimately I just don’t know.

Amid the great tragedy of the Holocaust stands Oskar Schindler. As a person, Schindler would probably not be invited to most church covered dish suppers. Schindler drank too much, slept with too many women, and even worse, he was a member of the Nazi party who exploited Jews by hiring them at lower wages with the motive of making as much money off of the war as possible. Great guy, huh? In spite of his flaws, an amazing transformation happens as the movie progresses. Schindler begins to recognize the atrocities going on around him, and he attempts to hire as many Jews as possible in order to save their lives. At the end of the movie, Schindler realizes that he was directly responsible for saving hundreds of lives. Rather than patting himself on the back, however, he breaks down in tears at the realization that he could have saved many more lives by selling his possessions.

Oskar Schindler is my answer to the question of whether God exists or cares given the tragedy of human life. Schindler was a beacon of hope to many people who otherwise would have been murdered. A light shines amid the darkness, and it shines through those of us who seem the most unworthy. We shall continue to suffer, but whenever I meet a person like Oskar Schindler, I cannot help but agree with Bobby’s statement. Yes, there is a God, and amid the loneliness, pain, and suffering, our Creator does love us.

If you're interested in another beacon of light named Dietrich Bonhoeffer, don't miss Al Scaggs' dramatic presentation of his life Tuesday at 7:30 in the 900 room.