MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1994

Looking down the road: Rob Spach

The Davidson Trustee Dilemma.

Christians aren’t better than anybody else. They’re not necessarily more honest; they’re not more moral; they don’t do more good in the world than anyone else. So, why would Davidson College insist that its trustees be practicing members of a Christian church? I think the question is a good one, one we’ve got to reflect on, whether we decide to alter the policy or not.

I’ve read the articles urging the Christian trustees to do unto others as they would have others do unto them. I’ve met fine, caring people who will graduate or have graduated from this fine institution and would make good trustees, but who are not Christians. On the face of it, it seems unfair for them to be barred from serving as trustees just because of their religious beliefs.

So, why am I unsure whether or not the policy should be altered? I look down the road not ten years but fifty years, one hundred years, and I’m sure the character of this college will change. That’s inevitable; it is, in fact, good and as it should be. It would be a lousy educational institution if it were stagnant. But in what directions will it change? In large measure, the answer to that question lies in the hands of the trustees.

I argued in these pages not long ago that whether we do so consciously or not, we root ourselves in a tradition. At the moment, we are rooted in the Christian tradition. Some—many, perhaps—may not agree with me that that is good, but that’s the way it is.

If we change the policy on trustee membership in a Christian church, we probably won’t see much of an effect for a couple of decades. But over time, the tradition to which most of the trustees ascribe would probably change; realistically, I would guess a larger and larger number would be secularists. Inevitably, the tradition that shapes the character of this college would also change. If that tradition becomes secularist in nature, as it has at many of the other schools to which we compare ourselves, then the Christian tradition which has shaped our identity will become merely ornamental.

Now, I am not opposed to secularism from the get-go; in fact, there’s no doubt in my mind that secularism has benefitted the academy greatly over the past century, promoting higher levels of professionalism than existed when most college professors were clergy. And there is no doubt that the contributions of secularism are going to continue to influence Davidson in positive ways, no matter what.

But secularism also has its shortcomings—areas in which it is lacking. One of those areas is spirituality. The spiritual values such as justice, charity, humility, and service which underlie education at its best are not inherent to secularism, and if this college were to become secular, those values would lose the strong basis they currently enjoy here. Moreover, by shifting away from the Christian tradition, we will end up lessening the diversity that exists in higher education. I look at academia in America and I see a polarization occurring which...

See Get-go on page 8

Nathan Seay

Different day, same outfit.

Okay, Davidson—you can brag all you want about your 1300 SAT scores and about how only 1% of applicants get in this school, but now the student body has really let me down. Davidson students, you may have IQs of 175, but you don’t notice anything unless it will be on a test.

Let me back up a bit. I’ve already gone on record saying that clothing is ridiculous and unnecessary except when it’s cold out. I’ve yelled at the Forces of Fashion who cause freshwomen to stick keys in their back pockets. I wanted to prove to myself that it was the rest of the world who was crazy while I remain in my tower of sanity. I decided on an experiment.

I chose an outfit to my liking: a garish plaid flannel (I just can’t believe that grunge is dead), pre-stained blue jeans, green Chucks with Perma-Smell (from the makers of Dura-Shears), and, to top it all off, (I just love puns) a black Davidson Tennis hat turned around backwards a la Dan Cortese. I wore this outfit for a solid week. I started wearing this outfit on Saturday. My original plan was to wear it until someone noticed. I was prepared to go to graduation in these garments if need be. I’m sure my parents would have been overjoyed to be able to pick their son out in the sea of black robes—the Seay within the sea (I kill myself).

My plan of going until graduation was spoiled after going out Thursday night to Backstreet. My roommates informed me that I “reeked of beer and cigarettes.” “I can smell you from twenty feet away.” Unfortunately, they told me this only after I sat next to my professors in two of my classes on Friday. This was a blessing in disguise because I had to dress up as Lorenzo Lamas on Friday night, which only reinforced to me why tight jeans are all the rage in hell.

I did nothing else unusual the whole week. I went out as often as I possibly could. I went to all my classes and tried desperately to think of witty things to say to feed my need...for attention. I tried to act as normal as possible, bracing myself for strange looks or at least a great reluctance of people to sit close to me. But much to my surprise, nobody said anything to me. There are three possible explanations for nobody notifying me of my extremely limited wardrobe: 1) People are scared of me. They’re afraid that I will break anyone like a twig who even dares to smile and say hello. Although I am cut like Jean-Claude Van Damme, I usually walk around with a stupid-looking grin on my face. I say hello to everybody I can and generally try to act as completely harmless as I actually am. Therefore, I discounted my first explanation. 2) Nobody pays any attention to me whatsoever. I could go to class with my hair on fire and wouldn’t get a response. The first sentence is a given, but I think that people would look at me with my hair on fire. People eventually pay attention to anyone who does the same thing over and over again. Just look at Jeffrey Dahmer. It took dozens of repetitions of his daily routine before anyone noticed. 3) Davidson students are the least observant people this side of John Bobbitt (I just can’t get over that). 

See Gross Guy on page 9

Holt Vaughan

Where is the real world?

I understand that figuring out what to do with the rest of your life is a pretty important matter. But why do people have to let it have a detrimental effect on the current life they are living? I can name ten people off the top of my head that right now are so apathetic about Davidson that I hardly know they go here. Some of them are on athletic teams but barely give fifty percent in practice. Others are enrolled in classes but barely take any notes. As a whole, the people I am talking about simply aren’t as involved in their Davidson experience as they used to be. They tell me that they have more important things to do—like worry about the “real world.” Excuse me, but could someone please tell me what the real world is? I think I’m confused. You see, as I understand it, once I graduate from Davidson, I’m going to be thrown into the world of grown-up people and sophistication. Henceforth, the later years of Davidson are child’s play. There’s no reason to try anymore in school because there are many more important things to worry about—like preparing for this real world that everyone keeps talking about. I guess this is where the apathy thing comes into play because, according to most people here, apathy means sophistication. I guess if all of this sophistication stuff is true then I am about as immature as one can get. Maybe it’s just me, but it seems like I’m having a fairly sophisticated life as it is. I know I do a lot of stupid stuff. But between you and me, I like the stupid stuff in my life. I like practicing tennis as hard as I can so I can be the best player possible. I like writing for the newspaper to improve my writing. I like studying and learning about the world I live in. The way I see it is that we’ve got the entire rest of our lives to figure out what we’re going to do in the real world. We only have these four years to figure out how to enjoy college and make the most of it. But maybe that’s just me.

Gull's Nest: Bill Gullan

Teach the poor to bake.

The question is this: what was Kim Kreiling thinking? In her column of last week (immediately above mine), she advocated “a system of socialized housing” to combat this homelessness problem everyone seems to talk about. She begins by saying that the problems of drug addiction, alcoholism, and mental illness “are not the issue here.” She perceives the homeless problem as a shortage of affordable housing. She goes as far as quoting former Mayor Dinkins of New York, that great champion of the underprivileged, who was booted out of office in November for, among other things, being out of touch with the concerns of the voters. Dinkins aside, Kreiling then states unbelievably that the problem is “the failure of government to meet that basic need” of housing. Is she actually saying that the government is responsible for housing the people? I suppose so, for she says later that housing is a “human right.” Well, I remember when the city of San Francisco produced a videotape for homeless men teaching them how to eat out of dumpsters. No joke, this was produced because many homeless people’s “dignity” prevents them from going to the numerous government shelters and soup kitchens in every major city. I suppose that a VCR must also be a “human right” and a “need the government is failing to meet,” since homeless people must have one to view this ironic videotape. Kreiling, undaunted, continues. She states, “We cannot stand by, watching the gap between rich and poor increase.” I would understand her concern if the poor were actually getting poorer, but why complain about the gap? Why, if both extremes are benefiting, is this situation intolerable?

See My VCR on page 9