One day during Spring Break, I was preparing for a jog by following Denise Austin’s stretches on ESPN. Ready to run out the door, I heard something that jolted my train of thought. I was reaching to turn off the power of the TV set when she said it. But first, she gazed into the camera and made me promise that I would say it, too, “at least four or five times a day.” “Four simple words to make you happy again,” she said with a gleaming smile. “Say them with me and believe: I am worth it!” You are worth it! I am worth it! I’m okay, you’re okay, everyone’s okay. Change the way you think, and you will change the way you feel. Relax. Visualize your desires. Think positive. Stop those negative thoughts. Participate in any other mild form of self-hypnosis. See how easy it is? You, too, can write self-help books. But please don’t trick yourself into thinking that any of these techniques will actually work.

Across the country, the self-help movement has invaded our privacy, pervaded our homes, and permeated our lives through television, radio, magazines, books, and seminars. Behind every group of people who come together to confront human conflict lies a book preaching self-oriented empowerment. The types of groups range from political to social to spiritual; they address the needs of people with any kind of illness, disability, or addiction, or of people who have shared a difficult experience or situation. Self-help groups have formed for minorities, insomniacs, cigarette users, homosexuals, bulimics, cancer and HIV-infected patients, and children of divorce, to name a few. Popular groups include Deployed Parents in Operation Desert Storm, Caregivers of Frail Elderly Veterans, and Self-Help for the Jobless. Join "Networks Empower Employees," and achieve a higher self-esteem in the workplace. Even Alcoholics Anonymous and the 12-step recovery program use self-help books, such as, 12 Steps’ Healing Ourselves and Our Planet.

The admirable attempts of these self-help groups, however, are misdirected and therefore ultimately unsuccessful. You would expect the people who work in the pop-psychology field to be terribly well-adjusted types, on a first-name basis with their feelings, assertive rather than aggressive, bursting with self-esteem, equally nurtured and nurturing in their relationships, and free of stress, phobias, and anxieties. However, one editor of a publishing company of self-help books was so motivated by observing her co-workers that she wrote an article in Newsweek proving just the opposite point. Is it any coincidence that the authors of these books generally suffer more than anyone else from the very problems about which they write? Take, for example, the au-

Clayton Huey

Pornography leads to a greater future. What if you don’t know what to do? In almost any situation, this is a scary thought. If you’re talking about sex, it’s even scarier. By looking at and reading pornographic magazines, people are quickly introduced to correct sexual behavior. In this way, they are introduced to the good and the bad sides of sex. Pornography, for this reason, should be allowed, encouraged, and even sold to people who are “under age.”

For many years, men and women have found sexual entertainment in various types of pornography. Women, especially, have found it fulfilling to please the male population by posing for magazines. Their satisfaction is clearly seen when you look at their smiling faces and playful poses. These talented models like to know that, everywhere, men are lusting after their bodies. You can tell this is true because there never seems to be a shortage of models. Men like to know that there are beautiful women out there who will pose for a magazine; otherwise, the sales of these magazines wouldn’t be so high.

However, pornography is not just a few pictures to drool over. These magazines are entertaining, yes, but they improve sexual performance, as well. Through the stimulating articles, the main reason the magazines are bought, the American population is enlightened. New positions, fun games, and new attitudes gained from them make sex much more enjoyable and create a large demand for the material.

With the demand for pornographic material, there are always a few jobs open. Any female with a decent body and a fair face can be used in new issues of pornographic magazines. It is really unfair, though, that men don’t have the same job opportunities in this area right now. If a widespread increase in the circulation of pornographic material were to take place, men would have many more job openings. However, as long as there are restrictions on the sale of these magazines, the number of jobs for both men and women will be limited. If more places would sell the magazines and anyone could buy them, their demand would increase. As a result, new magazines would be invented, more would be printed, and they would have to be produced more often.

This large increase in the production of the literature would open up huge opportunities for willing models. This could be a first step for aspiring models and young actors and actresses. The mass production of magazines would allow for more businesses and manufacturing plants, and it would even open up more job opportunities for men. 

Some argue that pornography corrupts the minds of young people into thinking that sex with anyone, not just a spouse, is fine. Also, some would say that many people who concern themselves with pornography early in life turn out to be criminals, such as Ted Bundy, or that pornography might promote violence. These “problems,” however, aren’t really problems at all. Let’s examine them for a second. Children wouldn’t necessarily think sex with anyone was fine. Would they have sex with a prostitute who might have AIDS or any other sexually transmitted disease? I think not. Let’s face it, though, sex is a natural instinct! Everyone wants to have sex sometime, so why not prepare the person for a possible unexpected, early encounter? This preparation would only be part of bringing a child up correctly. If children are raised in an appropriate manner, they will realize, too, that violence is wrong—even if some pictures in their educating material seem to advocate it.up jobs for the average person. Lastly, the magazines could be used as a self-educating tool for younger children. By looking at the pictures, they could familiarize themselves with the female (or male) anatomy. By observing different positions of copulating couples, they could formulate an idea of how their sexual encounters will take place. These children would prepare themselves for their sexual activity, later on in life, with their spouses. Through the studying of pornography, they would be better partners and feel more comfortable when in those situations. I can see how some people could argue that there are a few problems with pornography. Many would say that pornography corrupts it. Good teaching at home solves the “future criminals” argument. Anyway, how do we really know the root of such criminals’ evil was pornography? Chances are that they would have been criminals anyway. These people just can’t accept responsibility, and they’re trying to put the blame on something else. Pornography looks like a great scapegoat because not everyone has realized its full value. Many things that aren’t fully accepted are completely rejected. Pornography seems to be one of these things. Not everyone sees its amazing value. Once people see the educational value, job opportunities, and preparation for the future which pornography provides, people will open their eyes and accept it. Pornography is the key to a greater future.

The author of a best-seller about phobias whose book lacks a cover photo because, yes, the man has a phobia about having his picture taken. Self-help techniques do not work because they ask us to search inside ourselves for what can only be found in God. Since faith in God has been substantially marred by His own alleged death, as proclaimed by Nietzsche and his followers, we as a nation have had to look inward to find strength. Self-help calls us to depend on ourselves for empowerment, rather than to turn to God in weakness. That is idolatry. I am not surprised, however, at this trend. Is self-redemption not usually our natural substitute for Christ? The truth is, whether genuinely spiritual, professionally acceptable, or embarrassingly naive, the modern movement in America to overcome difficulty through self-empowerment does not work, except perhaps in what relates to behavioral adjustments.

The reason Saturday Night Live’s Stuart Smalley is so hysterical is that he is not good enough, he is not smart enough, and in fact, no one likes him. We have all had feelings like his at some point or another, and what fails to work for Stuart will not work for us. We can find no easy way out; we cannot “think” our problems away. Neither can we be “successful” at dealing with the wretchedness of our humanity without turning to God. Within ourselves lies a deficient pool of resources, pathetically incapable of facing life’s challenges. When we try to be strong “by looking within,” we will only be weaker than when we began. In the face of our insufficiency, however, stands a sufficient God, wanting to meet us in the center of our need. Our hope in times of struggle, then, must come from the knowledge that the very purpose of the life of Christ was to overcome the threat of death; a boost of self-esteem cannot compare.

continued from page 7

...lent to radon and asbestos by labeling it a “Class A carcinogen.” However, as I will discuss, this study represents not only questionable science, but outright lying. It is this report, and the typically ignorant and biased treatment of it by the mainstream media, that has paved the way for such dictatorial legislation as the Clinton plan. The June 23, 1993 Washington Post, however unintentionally, gives us some perspective on this. The Post talks of how the EPA used a controversial scientific technique called meta-analysis to do their report. This method “combines the results of numerous small studies to reach a broader conclusion that might not be justified by any single one.” Apparently, the EPA conducted thirty small studies and obtained the results they desired by arbitrarily picking and choosing among them. The EPA also expanded the acceptable margin of error in their studies from five to ten percent because, if a five percent margin had been used, only six of their studies would have found “an association between environmental smoke and cancer.” However, with the expanded margin, the EPA still found relatively inconclusive results. Then, taking a gigantic leap of faith, they found which statistics they were looking for and published them in this report. There was no mention of the contradictory nature of their data, nor was there any justification for their odd scientific techniques. Even more revealing, though, is that these studies “concerned home, not workplace, exposure to ETS.” This means that attempts to correlate secondhand smoke with cancer essentially failed even in homes, where the exposure is multiplied. Basically, this under-reported EPA flop means that you could sit in the Commons with me three meals a day forever (and my meals are long) and you would not be affected by my smoke. The EPA did prove, however, that if you lived with me over a long period of time, the chance of you being affected is still only 1 in 5 (6 out of 30 studies). This “authoritative” declaration is not worth the paper it’s written on. Let us not ignore the fact that two out of every three non-smokers believe that separate smoking sections are better than a ban (USA Today), or that the American Journal of Public Health reports that restaurant smoking sections greatly minimize the exposure to smoke in the non-smoking areas. These strident anti-smokers who quiver with self-righteous indignation at the sight of a cigarette rest on this fatally flawed EPA report like a crutch when they angrily write their congressmen and complain about their secondhand smoke intake. Basically, leave me alone. If you don’t like smoke, sit in the non-smoking section or go somewhere else. Don’t fraudulently trumpet the merits of a meaningless report, and, most importantly, don’t try to tell business people and mature adults what to do.