THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 4, 1994 3

Kappa Sig runs to support MADD
Fifth annual race aims to raise over $2000
By Mary Laura Moretz

In honor of two fraternity brothers killed in a 1989 drunk driving accident in Cheraw, NC, Kappa Sig held their
fifth annual 63-mile MADD run. Held this past Saturday, the event aimed to raise $2000 for Mothers Against Drunk Driving.
The tradition began after the deaths of John (John-O) Reynolds, a freshman member of the class of 1992, and Patrick
Virtue, a Kappa Sig at the University of Colorado. The two freshmen were friends from Salisbury, North Carolina. John Cook
'92, who advises in the planning of the run, came up with the idea to run all the way to
Salisbury in memory of Reynolds and Virtue. Before the accident, the Kappa Sigs held a MADD run to Charlotte. A
native of Salisbury and friend of the Reynolds and Virtues, Cook says that the two families host a reception for
family, friends, and the runners who come through the town.

The trip stretched from Davidson to Salisbury and back — about 63 miles. Brothers signed up to run specific legs
of the trip. Sophomore J.D. DuPuy, service chairman at Kappa Sig and coordinator of the run, says, “Mostly Kappa Sig
brothers run it but anyone else can, too. We got a lot of people, because pretty much the whole house
participates.” Cook says, “I run the four miles between the two houses and one mile with Mr. Virtue, Pat’s father.”

Kappa Sig brothers sought donations from North Carolina businesses before the run. Large donations earned the businesses’ logos a place
on the T-shirts that were sold on Saturday. The past four runs have raised over $8000 for MADD. The course
began at 8:00 Saturday morning and ended around 5:00 with a celebration on the Davidson town green. DuPuy, who also
ran his freshman year, says the trip may be long, but “it’s a lot of fun.”

Award reinforces love of teaching
By Court McBryde

“Dr. Putman’s classes are challenging. He incorporates humor into his lecture and he’s always eager to teach,” said senior biology
major Will Caldwell. Dr. Jeremiah Putman of the biology department received the Hunter-Hamilton Love of Teaching Award in 1992. A
Davidson College professor will be awarded the third annual Hunter-Hamilton Love of Teaching Award at the 1994 commencement exercises. The
Selection Committee is seeking nominations from current students, alumni, and faculty. Mathematics professor Benjamin Klein chairs the committee. Klein said
that he applauds this award for “being serious about rewarding good teaching; it reinforces the importance of teaching.”

Putman began teaching at Davidson in 1973. He teaches comparative anatomy and histology, runs the electron microscope, and currently serves
as the Pre-medical Director. “There are a lot of reasons why I love teaching. I enjoy the students and my
discipline. I have always liked to explain and simplify things; it is a passion,” said Putman. Putman said one of
the greatest rewards of teaching is that “students telling you that you have made a difference in their lives and
that they appreciate what you have done for them. The smallness of Davidson gives me the opportunity to know the
students well and to establish personal contact with them,” Putman said.

Dr. Charles E. Ratliff of the economics department received the award in 1991. The Selection Committee welcomes nominations for this
year's award until April 11, 1994. Nomination forms are available in Chambers 111.

Candlelight vigil for victims of sexual assault
Night continued from page 1

Senior Heather Flint spoke to offer practical advice about rape situations. She stressed that victims of sexual assault should not
take a shower before going to police because showering would erase most of the evidence that could lead to a
conviction of the offender. Nance Longworth, a counselor at the Davidson College Counseling Center and mentor of Davidson’s rape support
group, encouraged anyone with questions regarding sexual assault to go to the counseling center. Participants were asked...to list places where
they knew sexual assault had occurred. Later, Orsbon said that the majority of the places listed were cities in the
United States and that about 40 to 50 percent of them happened at Davidson. The Committee for Women’s Issues closed
the event with a candlelight vigil between the chemistry building and the Union. Participants received red ribbons to tie around
each other’s wrists to commemorate survivors of sexual assault. The committee also placed a ribbon tree in the Union Pit
to symbolize these survivors. Additional ribbons are available to those who wish to add to the tree. Orsbon felt this
year’s “Take Back the Night” was a success and was delighted by the number of men present. “The more men
the better,” said Orsbon. “I don’t think that it’s just a women’s issue because it can happen to your girlfriend,
your sister, your mother, or someone that you work with.”

Sophomore Jen Leaman described her “Take Back the Night” experience as “a reality check.” She said, “It makes you realize
how prevalent sexual assault is and that everyone at Davidson can be affected by it.”

SGA senators and freshman honor council elections on Tuesday.

A party for Dean Terry
By Eleanor Hatcher

Will Terry first came to Davidson as a member of the class of 1954. He has served the school as
the head of the YMCA (a service organization), as chaplain, and as the minister at DCPC. In 1970 he became
the Dean of Students, and this spring, three years after his arrival as a student, Dean Terry is retiring. The
school’s spring calendar is filled with events to thank him and say goodbye.

April 8th is the date of the campus-wide student celebration to honor Dean Terry. The Union, Patterson Court Council, and
SGA have cooperated to plan an evening of activities to allow students to gather and celebrate. Dinner will be served
free to all students on Chambers Lawn beginning at 5:15, followed by a square dance called by the guest of
honor. To finish the festivities, the band Everything will play on Patterson Court at 10:30. In the case of rain,
dinner and the dance will be in Johnston Gym, and Everything will play in one of the Patterson Court houses.
All students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to attend these events and party in honor of Dean Terry and everything
he has done for Davidson.

GET YOUR DOMINO’S PIZZA
Call Us! 896-8007
Shops on the Green - Cornelius
HOURS: 4pm - 12 midnight, 7 days a week
NEW ADDITIONS: Twisty Bread, Salad, Cheddar Cheese
Valid at participating stores only. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax. Carry out less than $30.00. Our drivers carry
less than $20.00.

2 MEDIUM PIZZAS WITH 2 TOPPINGS PLUS 2 ORDERS OF TWISTY BREAD™ FOR THE PRICE OF A MEDIUM
Not valid with other offers. Coupon expires 5/1/94

LATE NIGHT SPECIAL
Good 10PM-Midnight
$1.22*
*Not valid on deep dish. Not valid with other offers. Coupon expires 5/1/94

2ND MEDIUM PIZZA FOR $4.00 MORE
EQUAL OR LESS VALUE
Sunday-Thursday
Large cheese pizza $6.00 including tax
Medium 1 topping $5.00 including tax
*Not valid on deep dish. Not valid with other offers. Coupon expires 5/1/94

2 Medium 2 topping deep dish pizzas $10.45
Not valid with other offers. Coupon expires 5/1/94

$2.00 OFF Any medium pizza purchased at regular price
$3.00 OFF Any large pizza purchased at regular price
Medium Pizzas for the price of a Large
Not valid with other offers. Coupon expires 5/1/94

2 medium 1 topping pizzas $9.00
or 2 large 1 topping pizzas $13.99
*Not valid on deep dish. Not valid with other offers. Coupon expires 5/1/94
