THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, MARCH 7, 1994

Phi Beta Kappa lecture: Mozart's concertos
By Josh Larned

Students and faculty members with a fancy for classical music were treated to a lecture by renowned musicologist Joseph Kerman Thursday night. Kerman, Professor of Music at Berkeley, was speaking as part of the Phi Beta Kappa lecture series. With a smooth voice and a sharp sense of humor, Kerman gently guided his listeners through Mozart’s concertos. Referring to these particular works as “the synthesis of the composer’s art,” the scholar acknowledged their tremendous legacy which can be seen in “today’s supermarkets and Celicas.”

However, Kerman employed a novel approach to the Austrian composer by “relating the concertos to the historical situation in which they appeared.” In doing so, Kerman vividly described the rich musical scene in late eighteenth-century Vienna and Mozart’s successful attempt to captivate the city’s discriminating audience through his concertos. Kerman attributed Mozart’s success to the fact that he “single-handedly developed the art of dialogue in the concerto.” He then proceeded to dissect the general form of the composer’s concertos in a simple and direct fashion that listeners not extensively trained in musical appreciation could easily comprehend.

In his analysis, Kerman pointed out the fluid and graceful relationship between the solo and the orchestra that made Mozart’s concertos so unique for their time. In particular, Kerman examined Mozart’s Concerto in C Minor in order to exemplify this characteristic. Kerman clearly felt that Mozart’s concertos contain numerous elements which can be appreciated by almost everyone. In conclusion, he shared a quote by actress Joan Crawford that aptly explains Mozart’s contribution to the concerto: “I like some symphonies, but I love all concertos.” Kerman’s lecture made it apparent that it was largely because of Mozart that this musical form has become so popular through time.

The spirit is rising at Davidson
Spirit continued from page 11

the games and yell my head off.” During the middle of fall semester, sophomores Gray Dyer and Dave Fischer recruited students from the music department and began putting the band together. Drummer Karl Ruch says, “The music involves participation and brings excitement. The noise gets people excited.” Fischer says, “I love to watch the Wildcats play. If I can add something to the game, I will.”

The band has given a dimension to the games that was lacking in previous years. Francis says, “The band creates a big-school atmosphere.” The band traveled to the UNC-Charlotte game and to Appalachian State University in February. Dyer said, “The ASU fans definitely felt our presence because of our spirit and our cheering.” Roachal Laney, ASU athletic director, said that in twenty years, only twice has an opposing team brought their pep band. Both times, that band was Davidson’s. The band traveled this past weekend to the conference tournament in Asheville and played an integral part in cheering on the team. Fischer believes that next year the band “should grow. We hope to have a lot of freshman recruiting.”

The Dance Team
“In the past, spirit at Davidson was a struggle,” Scire says. For years, cheerleading squads were unsuccessful. In 1991, Scire decided to try another option: a dance team. Junior Sara Withers, co-captain of the 16-member team, says, “It’s a good opportunity to dance and to add to the spirit of the games. If we get excited, others will too.” Sophomore Beth Lindsey, also a co-captain, says, “We’ve been sitting on the court during the second half, helping the mascot do cheers.”

Scire says that this year’s team took a dance class in Mooresville and learned dances from a choreographer. They performed at all basketball games in Belk Arena and at the UNC-Charlotte game in Independence Arena. Last weekend, for the second consecutive year, the team performed at the Southern Conference tournament. Scire sees bright prospects for the dance team: “I’m excited and optimistic about what I see for the future. I hope we have dancers coming out of the woodwork.”

The Mascot
For three years, senior Greg Fisher has worn the Wildcat mascot costume at athletic events. Fisher says, “I’ve always enjoyed acting. This is a form of acting.” He sees his role as providing fun and spirit for fans. “I provide comic relief and represent Davidson,” Fisher says. In the costume, Fisher can do things he normally would not do: “During halftime, Dean Terry came outto mid-court, and I rubbed the top of his head.” Write for Arts or take pictures. Call Josh at 6347 or Amy at 6649.

EP, the California-based band Pavement has returned with a new LP entitled *Crooked Rain, Crooked Rain*. The new album, which features 12 original songs, is a solid effort with only a few mistakes. This is one group that does not often play it safe. Their willingness to take musical risks means that Pavement can play some of the most original and engaging music around. Unfortunately, it also means that when they miss, they miss big, as on the discordant “Stop Breathin’” and the ill-advised jazz send-up “5/4 = Unity.”

Pavement’s sound is in some ways similar to contemporaries Dinosaur Jr. and Sebadoh. Guitar tones tend to be trebly (though not always as distorted as those used by Din. Jr) and distinctively Fender-esque. This tone works well on songs such as “Silence Kid” but sounds a little too sparse at other times. The album is well-produced and features a pleasant balance of vocals and instruments.

Following up on the success of their debut album, *Slanted and Enchanted* and *Watery, Domestic*, in general, the songs tend to avoid the traditional verse-chorus-verse form and also feature several distinct melodies within a single tune. Songs such as “Unfair” and “Range Life” prove that Pavement can write a strongly melodic tune without resorting to hackneyed songwriting formulas. Certain songs, however, could benefit from more structure. “Stop Breathin’,” in particular, meanders aimlessly before finally settling into cacophonous and repetitious solo guitar lines.

The band redeems itself with standouts such as “Gold Soundz” and “Cut Your Hair”—a humorous take on the importance of hairstyle in the music business. This is generally a strong album featuring some ambitious songwriting and guitar performance. Pavement’s desire to create original and distinctive music seems to have led to great success. The bad songs on this album (and there are only a few) are truly terrible, but one listen to “Gold Soundz” will make you forget you ever complained.

EXCELLENT EXTRA INCOME NOW! ENVELOPE STUFFING — $600 - $800 every week. International Inc. 1375 Coney Island Ave. Brooklyn, New York 11230.

Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $279! Trip Includes The Rafters Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Hurry! This Will Sell Out! 1-800-678-6386.

WANTED: Restaurant needs kitchen help Fri & Sat nights 5-10. Please call Rick or Cindy at 663-7322.

TUESDAY Calendar

ON THE SCENE

WEDNESDAY

THURSDAY

FRIDAY

MARCH 11

SATURDAY

Knights. Eumenean Society. EU Hall, upstairs. 7:30-9:00 p.m.

Prof. Gil Einstein. Aging and Remembering to Remember. 900 Room, 7:30 p.m.

Urban Bush Women. Dancers, mimes, and vocalists. Love Auditorium, Chambers, 8:15 p.m.

Twenty-One-Year-Olds Night. 900 Room. 10:00-12:30 p.m.

Cedric Suzman. South Africa Today. 900 Room, 7:30 p.m.

A Midsummer Night’s Dream. Belk Theater, Blumenthal Performing Arts Center. March 8 and 10, 8:00 p.m. Call 372-0101 for more info.

Cowboy Junkies. Spirit Square, Charlotte, 8 p.m. Call 522-6500 for tickets.

Fried Green Tomatoes. 900 Room, 9:30 p.m.

PLAN AHEAD

MARCH & APRIL

Life of Dietrich Bonhoeffer. One man show with Al Staggs. 900 Room, March 15, 7:30 p.m.

The Most Democratic Sport. Museum of the New South. An exhibition on the history of basketball in the area. Call 333-1887.

Les Ballets Jazz de Montreal. Performing Arts Center, Charlotte. March 21, 8:00 p.m. Call 522-6500 for tickets.

Col. Bruce and the Aquarium Rescue Unit. Ziggy’s, Winston-Salem. March 26. Call 910-748-1064 for info.

Billy Joel. Dean Smith Center, Chapel Hill. April 12, 8:00 p.m. Call 522-6500 for tickets.

MARCH 8

MARCH 9

MARCH 10

MARCH 12

Coffeehouse. 900 Room, 8:30-11:00 a.m.

Crop Lunch. 900 Room, 11:30 a.m.-1:00 p.m.

Annette Baier. 900 Room, 4:30 p.m.

Fried Green Tomatoes. 900 Room, 8:00 p.m.

Jumping Java Cafe. Union Outpost. 2-6 p.m.

Medieval Society. Phi Hall, upstairs. 6:30 p.m.

Dr. Ainslee Embry. India: Reflection on its Turmoil and Prospective. 900 Room, 4:30 p.m.

Kentucky Wesleyan Singers. DCPC, 8:00 p.m.

Phish. Tickets go on sale for April 21 show. Call 522-6500.

SUNDAY

MARCH 13

Paul Odette, lutenist. Hodson Hall, Cunningham Fine Arts Building, 8:00 p.m.

Philanthropic Society. Phi Hall upstairs, 9:00 p.m.

Classical Taste in America: 1800-1840. Mint Museum, Charlotte. Through March 13. For info call 337-2000.