THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

This Week out of Washington

Secretary of the Navy John Dalton Speaks on "Courage of Character"

By Robert Ramsay

Secretary of the Navy John Dalton spoke Wednesday, April 20, to a partially filled Love Auditorium. His speech, “The Courage of Character,” focused on the qualities of a good leader and the importance of employing ethics when making decisions. The theme of the talk was this quote by John C. Kirkpatrick: “You can do anything you set your mind to do, and don’t you forget it.” Dalton explained how successful leadership is defined by character, and character is about the courage to make ethical decisions in the face of opposition. Dalton quoted Robert Schuler, who said, “If you don’t stand for something, you'll fall for anything.”

Although Dalton’s speech was itself intriguing, the question and answer session which followed piqued the most interesting remarks from Dalton. When asked what the Navy's current, post-Cold War goal is, Dalton responded, “To establish a forward presence.” Dalton argued that having ships within “relative proximity” of potential locations of conflict is crucial to American security. Dalton said that the purpose of the Base Realignment and Closure Process, which reduces the number of ships and bases in the naval fleet, is to create a “cost-effective naval service.” According to Dalton, a 350-ship U.S. Navy is a definite possibility for the future. In addition, the aim of the United States’ intervention in places like Somalia and Bosnia, said Dalton, is to install a “positive stabilizing effect.”

The most prominent topic during the questioning was, of course, the recent Tailhook scandal. With diplomacy, Dalton said that the experience has enabled him and the others involved to “learn from mistakes.”

U.S. team takes the win in the World Cup

continued from page 1

A one-on-one against goalkeeper Tony Meola. The Moldovan attempted to chip the ball over the keeper’s head, but Meola made an outstanding save. Controlling the midfield and winning most defensive headers, the Americans simply dominated the field, racking up 21 shots and constantly pressuring the Moldovan defense. The shutout was only America’s second this year, the other coming against Denmark in February. The three goals scored were the most offense for America all year. “When you score a goal early, it makes things much easier for the team,” said head coach Bora Milutinovic. America’s other goal came from former UCLA standout Mike Lapper when, with five minutes remaining in the first half, he took a deflection off a Reyna shot and placed the ball past the Moldovan keeper. The goal was Lapper’s first career international goal in his 37th game with the U.S. National team. “We were looking forward to getting a win tonight. These games are important and tough, and we need to win them,” said keeper Tony Meola. The U.S. National team left for California on Thursday and faced Iceland in San Diego yesterday. The team will then continue to play exhibitions, as the European players return before facing Switzerland in their first game of the World Cup.

MONDAY, APRIL 25, 1994

Perspective NOTES

You can bank on us! Earn up to $175 a month by donating life-saving plasma!

EARN UP TO $30 AND GET PAID TODAY

You can “bank” on us in 1994 to provide you with extra $$$. Visit our friendly, modern Center and earn cash while helping others.

STATE I.D. REQUIRED

plasma alliance “people helping people”

1511 Central Ave. M-TH 6:30A-9P Sat 7:30A-6P

Promises broken in Bosnia Life inthe ‘Nixon generation’. He was the omnipresent figure, the man of so many incarnations that the journalistic cliché of four different decades was "the new Nixon." And now that Richard Milhous Nixon has passed into history, the revisions of his reputation will no longer be determined by his own contrivance but by the judgment of scholars. Why anyone as ill-at-ease as Nixon would choose a career in politics is baffling. But that was only one of the many mysteries about him that most of us in the press never deciphered. The intelligence, the self-discipline, the dogged determination that brought him back from so many rejections, including the ultimate shame of a forced resignation from the presidency; the analytical skill, the tactical toughness, the leaps of boldness, like the opening to China—all these were evident.

-from the viewpoint section of Sunday's Charlotte Observer

An economic cool-down

Can the economy, for the first time in a generation, keep growing without rekindling inflation? That's the question on the minds of many experts as the nation's economic expansion approaches its third anniversary. The signs were encouraging last week. Consumer prices rose a moderate 0.3 percent in March, bringing this year's inflation rate to a tame 2.5 percent, down a bit from early 1993. Inflation watchers fret about two potential bottlenecks in the economy. One is the higher demand for automobiles, appliances, and other manufactured goods, which could drive factories to the limits of their production capacity.

-from the Business section of the April 25 issue of U.S. News and World Report

It wasn't supposed to come to this in Gorazde. The Serb aggressors, like so many schoolyard bullies, were supposed to back off after getting their noses bloodied by a few air strikes. A dozen legions of angels may now be able to help the 70,000 inhabitants of Gorazde, but the United Nations cannot and the United States and its NATO allies apparently will not. The shame is less that they can't or won't than that for so long they led the Bosnians to believe they could and would—and that, with an arms embargo that continues in force even now, they may have kept the Bosnians from acquiring the means to defend themselves.

-from an editorial in the Chicago Tribune

Fri 6:30A-8P Sun 9:00A-6P Charlotte, NC 28205

RESTAURANT FAMILY OWNED & OPERATED BY RICK BRYANT & CINDY BOOKER

ALL OUR FOOD IS AS FRESH AS IS POSSIBLE TO OBTAIN. WE'RE KEEPING “REAL FOOD” ALIVE IN MOORESVILLE
- STEAKS
- SWORDFISH
- GRILLED CHICKEN
- BURGERS
- SPECIALTY SANDWICHES
- ALL MENU ITEMS HOMEMADE INCLUDING DESSERTS
- BEER & WINE

SERVING LUNCH MONDAY-FRIDAY 11:00 A.M.-2:00 P.M.
- ORDERS TO-GO
- DAILY LUNCH SPECIALS

SERVING DINNER FRIDAY-SATURDAY 5:00 P.M.-10:00 P.M.

COME JOIN THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RAFTERS
663-7322
761 NORTH MAIN STREET, MOORESVILLE

THE RAFTERS RESTAURANT THANKS THEIR CUSTOMERS & HOPES TO SERVE YOU SOON!

Be a Carolina Tar Heel!

Session I: May 19-June 24, 1994
Session II: June 28-August 2, 1994

Students from any college or university, teachers, and others may apply for first, second, or both sessions. UNC-CH offers, during two 5½ week sessions, over 900 courses in 45 disciplines. A typical course load per session is 6 semester hours. Some evening and night courses are also offered.

Approximate Cost per Session:
Tuition and Fees of $115 plus $49 per credit hour

When requesting a catalog and application, please mention seeing this ad in C1540, 200.

Summer School
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
CB# 3340, 200 Pettigrew Hall
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3340
Fax: (919) 962-2752
Phone: (919) 962-1009