THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1994

Davidson students fight the ice and snow on Friday. Thursday's ice storm kept many indoors, but those on campus trekked through the elements in the pursuit of education. Photo by Amy Laukkanen

With Davidson Recycling, students must

Trash continued from page 1

One of the biggest problems for Davidson Recycles. The school no longer recycles glass because last year the glass would pile up in the shed and become dangerous. A few dedicated people sort the glass, but efficiency fell to a minimum. This is still a problem. Even with the elimination of glass recycling, students are still needed to sort the goods now collected. Currently, there are around six students who come and sort. Those who do give their time to sorting face further problems. The company that the school currently uses charges large fees when the sorting is not done correctly. The dumpsters that collect the goods are also expensive. According to Tony Owens, Assistant Building Services Manager and a crusader for a better recycling program, each dumpster costs almost $6000.

Owens cites another large problem: “Everyone is trying to recycle everything at once, but we don’t have the manpower for it. If we took it gradually and got good at one thing and then another, we might be able to do a better job.” In the dorms, cleanliness and sanitation are a problem. Recycling bins in each hall would help, but that would increase the already problematic dorm bug population. Says Owens, “cleanliness is our number one priority.”

The union decided to recycle independently because, according to Assistant Director of Operations Mike Goode, when they recycled with Davidson, everything fell apart. As Goode states, though, they are suffering from a type of moral dilemma, for they have been encouraged to stay with Davidson Recycling in order to make the recycling problem bigger. Some people believe that if the problem gets big enough, the administration will be forced to do something about it. The union decided, however, recycling was more important than getting involved in school politics.

Financial support is not always such an easy answer. Goode states the problem clearly: “We are all trying to make it less expensive to go to school here.”

What can be done? The school is presently changing recycling companies, and the new system appears to be more efficient and less expensive. Owens has been researching recycling programs at other schools, and is trying to do all that he can to improve Davidson’s. Improvements are happening every day. This week Davidson Recycles begins to recycle plastics on Patterson Court. Soon, the program will be selling individual recycling bins for students' rooms.

Right now, the major problems seem to be lack of student involvement and lack of administrative support. With an increase in both of these things, Davidson Recycles might be able to start over with a better program. Says one faculty member, “It's got to come from the top. This is why our program isn’t working.” He goes on to point out that all colleges that have successful recycling programs have had some sort of presidential mandate.

Student involvement is necessary as well. Professor David Martin of the economics department, who petitioned for the recycling room in Chambers, laments that students aren’t taking the time to recycle. He sees students every day “throw their cans away in the trash when a recycling bin is right there.” Says Owens, “If more students...

"How to do math when you think you can't." Professor Steven Davis 7:00-8:15 p.m., February 14, BSC House

The Davidsonian

KATHERINE HASH - NEWS EDITOR
ASHLYN DANNELLY - ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR
CARRIE BLACKBURN - SPECIAL ASSIGNMENTS
Kent, Jeff Fuller Staff Writers
Court McBryde, Rachel Dunifon, Sally Stone, Brett Marston, Jay Jennings, Krisy Ford, Martha Knight, Wendy Lee, Mary Clare Jalonick, Christy Block, Lexy Devane, Ross Sloop, Towner Blackstock, Phoebe Dean, Beth Lindsay, Mary Laura Moretz, Jeffcould help out the few dedicated ones we have, it could work. For this program to be successful, we need everybody.”

Midwinters draws crowds but leaves others discontent
—By Ashlyn Dannelly—

Forty-two years ago, Davidson fraternity members enjoyed a Midwinter’s weekend just as the current Davidson students did last weekend. In “This Week in Davidson” for the week of February 10-17, 1952, the Pan-Hellenic Midwinter Dances were listed for Saturday, February 16. However, many Davidson students now view the Midwinters weekend as a tradition which causes division between different groups on campus. Sophomore Allison Sabel won the SGA vice-presidency recently with a campaign promise of an all-campus dance.

For most people, the weekend’s activities revolved around Patterson Court. The fraternities hold individual functions, which can cause problems for those girls who do not get asked. Freshman Kathy Harker had a date for the weekend, but says that some of her friends who didn’t get dates were “a little upset... it can be hard on the girls to wait for the guys to ask.” The men’s houses have two other weekends similar to Midwinters: Homecoming and Spring Frolics. This leaves some people asking if that number is too many. Junior Melissa Ream says, “Freshman year I would have been mortified not to have a date, but now I realize that it’s just another weekend on Patterson Court; people are just dressed up.”

On Friday, The Samples played in Love Auditorium, which was enjoyed by many students. However, that event was the only one of the weekend which brought most of the campus together. The Union sponsored a semiformal, “Davidson on Ice,” on Saturday night for all students, but it was not as well-attended as fraternity events. Junior independent John Murchison enjoyed the weekend because he was asked by some friends to attend one fraternity’s functions. He says, “I think (Midwinters) is good, because there is not really that much going on in January and February. It’s better than just a regular weekend.” Murchison is skeptical about replacing Midwinters with an all-campus event: “I think it’s a good idea, but I don’t know if it would work.”

Junior Laurie Self disagrees: “I think it would be incredible and would definitely help campus unity and independent students to have an all-campus event. It needs to be campus-wide.” One junior fraternity member, who asked not to be named, objects to such an event: “If you’re independent, you pretty much gave up the option of going to Midwinters. You shouldn’t expect the fraternities to have an option for you—the college has an option.”

Ream hopes to see an all-campus weekend, but says that “Patterson Court needs to support it financially, and perhaps get a big band. It needs to be different from what the Union offers now.” Junior Derek Spencer offers a different idea: “Midwinters still is lacking. I think there should be a situation where the women’s eating houses have something like that, but all during the same weekend. It would put a different light on it for the guys.” When asked about an all-campus event, Spencer adds: “Patterson Court would have to endorse it. Lunar Luau is like that, and whether or not it is a good thing, there are still a lot of people there. People will follow what everyone else is doing.”

TEACH FOR AMERICA

People think there are limits to what we can do, that it’s out of our reach to really change the way things are. I feel there is no limit to what we can do—it only depends on how much of ourselves we want to give.
~ TEACH FOR AMERICA Corps MEMBER

See your career office for applications. If none are available, please call 1-800/832-1230 ext. 120.

If your January 15, 1994 application has been received, you have been scheduled for an interview and will receive notification in the mail.

MARCH 2 DEADLINE 1994