‘THE DAVIDSONIAN

At first, I loved him for his sarcasm. Later, I loved him for his dedication to the cause. In the
end, though, I loved him for his ability to deal with adverse conditions, for the way he accepted loss and
decided to be even stronger than he had been before the accident.

He had three dreams that spring: play varsity soccer, drive a Jeep, and go to the prom. On Monday, they
all came true. He made the varsity team, was asked to the prom by a junior girl, and found a
Jeep in the driveway when he got home from school. On Wednesday, everything changed. It was raining, enough for him
to put the top back on but not enough to stop him from driving. And in a few moments' time,
he rear-ended someone, got out of the car to inspect the damage, and found himself flying over four lanes.

Rosie Molinary
OPINIONS
MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1994

To shrug at tragedy

...of traffic until landing in the fast lane without his right leg. A U.S. Marine stopped him just as he
was attempting to stand up and go after his Jeep, a ball of flames on the interstate.

The days in the hospital turned into weeks. I would sit with him, unsure of what I could say. At
times, he would cry out in pain. I would cringe as he reached for the leg that was not there.
It was the phantom pain I had always heard amputees suffered after an accident. This pain, however, was only a
small part of his new reality. He had grown up an athlete. That chapter of his life closed just as
it had begun to turn full circle. The life he had lived as a handsome, healthy, young man was no
more. He had a barrier now, a barrier far more massive than the wheelchair he drove or the plastic leg
he owned. Would spirit or injury win the battle? I braced myself. First, there would be anger, I reasoned. Fear
and a sense of loss would follow. Finally, he would reach acceptance. I understood this all because I was angry.
I was angry at the rain that caused the accident, the man who forced him to check for damage, the
driver who pinched off his leg, the nurses who couldn’t stop his pain—and most of all by this fate that
had changed his future.

Future, however, is often defined not by what you put into it, but by the factors you pull out of
it. His prom was in the hospital room; they danced sitting in his wheelchair together. His tuxedo was pinned up
where “Timmy, the stump” ended, and dinner was take-out instead of hospital food. Anger, fear, and loss aren’t necessary when
tragedy strikes, I learned. In the days we spent together in the hospital, I never saw him cry or question
or speak out in anger. He lost his leg, and he accepted it. He had changed anatomically, but it never
meant he had to change emotionally.

We went on a walk in the hospital parking lot the day after his prom. A small girl walked by
as I was pushing his wheelchair and stared at his stump. “Say ‘Hi,’ Timmy,” he said, and waved the amputated
leg obnoxiously. The girl’s eyes opened wide and she looked away. I questioned him. Why scare a small girl so
needlessly? “I can handle this loss,” he said. “It doesn’t scare me or anger me or change me. I can
handle this, but maybe the next guy can’t and that little girl stares at him and it destroys him. Maybe
I just kept that from happening. I can’t fight for the ball anymore, but I can fight for what I
believe in—that I, or anyone else, am no different without a leg. I am no weaker, no more helpless, no
less human. In fact, I am stronger and more human because I have seen tragedy and shrugged at it.”

Cracked Cymbals by Michael A. Slayton

My big brother went as a cowboy. My little brother went as Elvis. I went as a cry for help!

TOWARD frank and open honesty

Channel from page 8

...don’t have the capacity to think on a higher plane when reading my articles, I suggest you skip them the
next time you pick up The Davidsonian. Because, without a doubt, I will continue to write in the same manner
that I always have. While I am talking about reactions to my articles, I would like to thank John Rogers
for his little history lesson last week. But, I must also warn him that not all logical thinking is based
on literature that is printed in black and white or etched in stone on the side of some mountain. I
am proud to see that Mr. Rogers has extensive knowledge in certain areas. But, I can assure him that African-Americans
have read the same books and have attended the same classes that he has, so we know all about the
“facts” he mentioned last week. So trust me when I say that we have a pretty firm grip on the
history of this “great” country of ours. And I still say, through some very logical thinking, that I still associate
hate and slavery with that flag. I am sure that somewhere during your studies you noticed that slavery was in
effect before the Civil War, ended with the war, and would have been prolonged had the Confederacy won. Regardless if
it started the war or not, the connections are pretty damn obvious. I believe Ralph Ellison best stated the need
for frank and open honesty: ‘Whence all this compassion toward conformity anyway?—diversity is the word. Let man keep his many
parts and you’ll have no tyrant states ... America is woven of...many strands ... Our feat is to become one,
yet many ... Thus one of the greatest jokes in the world is the spectacle of the whites busy escaping
blackness and becoming blacker every day, and the blacks striving towards whiteness becoming quite dull and gray. None of us
seems to know who he is or where he is going. Decided not by the factors you play Michael Farley.
Let us not drink from the cup of bitterness. The resounding victory over the institution of slavery is a victory
black Americans will carry proudly through centuries to come—and justly so. While emancipation and the struggle for civil rights represent
major benchmarks in the history of that success, the undeniable disadvantage blacks find themselves at today reminds us we have
much to learn as a nation. Unfortunately, Ike Bailey’s extremist theory of aslow blatantly defies the wisdom of these words
and tears at the achievements of one of our nation’s greatest men. When one component of a society repeatedly alienates
another, there can be no hope for legitimate integration. As a nation, we have learned this lesson all too well.
This was the unfortunate case in the 1800s. This was the unfortunate case in the 1960s. Now, in 1994, Ike
Bailey has revived alienation and squelched 30 years of progress towards racial harmony. Ike’s article, justifiably quick to recall painful
images of slavery and injustice, completely ignores the progress our nation has made. Do not forget that it was the
United States of America that took the first steps toward establishing the long-deserved American birthright of freedom for all men.
Do not forget that the United States of America struggled to give equal rights to its minority citizens. Do not
forget that the United States of America provided troops that ensured the safety of Martin Luther King’s March on Washington.
In response to your question, incessant comparison of America in 1800 to America in 1994, two vastly divergent nations, achieves
no positive result. Conversely, Ike creates an atmosphere of bitter animosity in which the noble intent of the article is
destroyed by a stinging rhetoric characteristic of the 1960s. We are not presented with a motivational cause to rally around;
rather, we are exposed to the venting of emotion that smacks of segregation anew. On August 28, 1963, uttered in
the shadow of the immortal words, “I have a dream,” Martin Luther King urged his followers, “Let us not seek
to satisfy our thirst for freedom by drinking from the cup of bitterness.” Ike’s article could well be the least
appropriate means to further the cause of black Americans today. As an American, I am not proud of the history
my nation tolerated in regard to slavery and racial injustice. This sentiment, I assure you, is shared by the majority
of our country’s people. Scattered, racist factions indeed exist within our society. However, this diminishing minority weakens daily. The forces
striving to promote racial equality are far greater than those tearing it down. Despite Bailey’s article, I am confident this
trend will continue tomorrow. Verbal indictment of the United States of America and collective forced extinction of black Americans does
little to further this cause. In fact, I would be remiss not to mention that articles of Ike’s nature do
little more than act as powerful killing forces themselves. This country is something we should all love. It’s all we
have in moments of strife—and that’s a lot more than the people of most nations can even pray for. The
concluding paragraphs of Bailey’s article highlight the achievements of professional and artistic blacks in our society today. These are the
images we need to portray—not just to the doubting white population, but to the discouraged black population as well. Only
by positive example will we, as a nation, overcome the ignorance that finds itself at the roots of racism. Tearing
one culture down to build another inexorably leads to ruin. This is the mistake too many Americans made long ago.
History need not repeat itself.

Political success despite a questionable past is trendy

Scandal from page 8

name” Kennedy, whose past is horrible. A wild party man and womanizer, he consistently wins his Massachusetts’ Senate seat. Finally,
this year, he is leading only slightly in the polls. These men are just a few examples. Bob “I’m-sorry-to-bump-into-you” Packwood,
Jesse “Affirmative-Action-is-my-pal” Helms, and to some degree, Bill “I-need-a-cheap-lawyer” Clinton are all examples of political success despite questionable beliefs or
pasts. Even Oliver North, a self-admitted liar, is in position to win the Virginia Senate race. It’s not a black
or white thing; it is a Republican and Democratic thing, and it does seem to be a male thing. I’m
not saying each and every elected official should be Mother Theresa, but there should be a limit. Our founders designed
the Constitution on hopes that an “educated” public would take part in the government to benefit all. Remember, the ultimate
check to any elected official is us, the voters. In college we are educated, so our votes will probably be
carefully thought out and made. Unfortunately, this is not true for a large majority of people. Unless our society as
a whole changes, the government will not either. I know that I might be talking a little drastically, but when
you really think about it, quite a few shady characters enter politics. I just thought the Barry election rocked the
boat, not the vote. Maybe Gary Hart is a pretty smart guy. Don’t remember him very well? That’s the reason
why.
