Che B

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXVI

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1994

NUMBER 11

In memory.

502 panels of the nearly 30,000 panel AIDS Memorial Quilt displayed on campus

By Mary Clare Jalonick

The gymnasium became quiet as volunteers, all clad in white, filed out onto the floor. Spectators watched as they formed circles around parts of the Quilt and slowly unfolded them. As they revealed the panels, invited visitors methodically read off the names of some of those who have died.

“It was an honor to unfold, as a person who has been touched by AIDS,” says sophomore Katherine Ross. “Being with other people was nice.”

The NAMES Memorial Quilt finally came to Davidson. For four days, students, faculty, staff, and members of the greater community viewed 248 panels of the 28,000 in existence around the country. Over 250 people volunteered for jobs like quilt monitors, merchandise vendors, and name readers.

“Davidson needs [the quilt], but it is only the first step,” says Hal Dougherty, the education co-chair for the NAMES Project at Davidson.

The atmosphere in the gymnasium was quiet and somber. Some had tears rolling down their faces, while some stared at the panels with a quiet respect. Parents pointed things out to their children, as some laid roses on individual panels.

Sara Beasley, a professor of English, had seen the quilt twice before and was excited when she was asked to be co-chair of ceremonies for the exhibit. Also a Davidson alumna, she says that “Davidson is a place you can live.”

See NAMES continued on page 5

Roosters list the names of those memorialized on the quilt.

Photo courtesy of College Relations

The NAMES Quilt brought the reality of AIDS home to Davidson students.

Photo courtesy of College Relations

Committee studies future of Johnston Gym

By Courtauld McBryde

A committee composed of students, faculty, administrators, and headed by Dean of Students Tom Shandley was asked by the Facilities Planning Committee to look at Johnston Gym and at what the building has to offer.

The committee created a list of 25 items which essentially summarizes its discussions about program ideas for the use of Johnston Gym.

The list entails such ideas as lounge space, cafe/coffeehouse, women’s center, swimming pool, sports cafe, mailboxes, bookstore, aerobic/dance space, art gallery, cultural center, and many more suggestions.

Shandley says that the committee sent a recommendation back to the Facilities Planning Committee with the list of program ideas.

The committee made the last step, and now Shandley says the issues are in “their laps.” They will now decide whether these ideas are feasible.

Shandley emphasizes that the recommendation is “not an approved project yet, but it’s moving in that direction.”

Dr. Ruth Westheimer.

“I don't know if the walls of this hall have heard the kind of language I'm about to use.”

in Love Auditorium Wednesday night

Dr. Ruth Westheimer

Photo courtesy of College Relations

THIS WEEK

First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1

Davidson, NC 28036

Dr. Ruth talks frankly about sex

By Ceci Combs

Dr. Ruth Westheimer was received at Davidson College last Wednesday evening with mixed reactions from students. Perhaps this had something to do with preconceived notions — those students who thought Dr. Ruth was visiting our campus to magically make their sex lives better (or existent) were probably a bit disappointed. But those who were interested in hearing an interesting and informative talk on sexuality from a psycho-sexual therapist’s perspective spent their two dollars well.

Dr. Ruth’s lecture dealt more with sexuality in general than with the specifics of sexual intercourse. She let us know from the beginning of her talk that she considered herself “rather old-fashioned and a square,” and that while she was here to discuss with us one aspect of relationships, by no means was sex the only important facet of a relationship. It came as a pleasant surprise for most that “the sex lady” placed so much emphasis on the importance of love and commitment in conjunction with sexual intercourse. Dr. Ruth told the Davidson audience that she wanted to help them with “sexual literacy,” and advocated the importance of a healthy attitude toward sex.

This is not to say that those anticipating an explicit sexual lecture were denied this — Dr. Westheimer prefaced her talk by saying she was not sure if the walls of Love Auditorium had ever heard the type of language she was going to use. She covered a variety of topics, from unplanned pregnancies to AIDS to the Graftenberg spot, and did not spare any detail. She shared her hope that talks like hers would help reduce problems like unwanted pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases by educating the public. “I’m really glad she came to Davidson,” says Sarah Orsbon, head of our campus’ Women’s Issues Committee. “She brought up some important issues in a healthy and informed way, and even if you didn’t agree with her perspective, her talk certainly made you think.”

And judging from the amount of formal and informal discussion following the two-hour lecture, Dr. Ruth Westheimer did just that. Orsbon’s committee contributed one-fourth of their annual budget to

See Ruth continued on page 3

Breaking Out

FLAG and other groups on campus sponsor a fashion show to raise money and to offer a celebration of life.

NEWS 5

No free-riders

Economics Professors Ross and Hess believe Davidson’s academic policies should reflect the college’s rigor.

OPINIONS 8

Symphony

Davidson’s first-ever symphony orchestra gives its premier performance Thursday.

ARTS & LIVING 10

Women’s b-ball

Wildcat fans can get a sneak peek at the team in this week’s season preview.

SPORTS 14