THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1994

The Davidsonian

LEIGH RAWDON - Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Executive Editor
MANDY CURTIS - Managing Editor
KATHERINE HASH - News Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY - Ass't News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY - Opinions Editor
JOSH LARNED - Arts Editor
SCOTT MCLEAN - Ass't Arts Editor
WILL COBB - Sports Editor
AMY LAUKKANEN - Photography Editor
ARTHUR GASTON - Copy Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES - Ass't Advertising Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN - Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD - Circulation Manager

Bringing people together

A group of disgruntled students began Solidarity Week in the mid-1980s as a reaction to a Ku Klux Klan march through the town of Davidson. Though the problems of racism and xenophobia still exist, we have come a long way in ten years, and we now have the luxury of turning our attention inward to examine Davidson College’s own solidarity. While we still address the problems which prompted students to create Solidarity Week, we now can look at problems not only between races and nationalities but also between students and faculty, men and women, court members and independents. Solidarity Week has grown in scope, and it is time for it to grow in influence.

We need a campus not fragmented by various social boundaries but drawn together by what we have in common—intellectual curiosity, the zeal of youth, and, above all else, a love for Davidson College. This type of solidarity seems basic, but, with a closer look, its absence can be seen at the root of most of Davidson’s problems. Almost every issue we think worth debating, from the statement of purpose to coed freshman dorms, is linked in some way to the frustrating divisions on our campus. Like every society, Davidson is divided among many lines such as race, sex, religion, and sexual orientation. These dividing lines are inescapable, but we also impose unnecessary divisions on ourselves that make the problem worse. Social boundaries, especially visible on weekends like Homecoming and Midwinters, are enough to keep even our tiny campus from thriving as a solid entity.

While Patterson Court and the Union each serve a need, the social menu for students must not always be so binary that it forces us to choose between a “Davidson College party” in the Union and a “fraternity party” on the court. The remedy for a lack of solidarity starts simply with bringing people together. Events like those sponsored by the Solidarity Committee and the Union this week are a good beginning. We believe that creating the tradition of a campus-wide party inviting students, professors, and staff, would be a giant step toward the elusive goal of togetherness. It would certainly provide a needed arena for faculty/student interaction outside the classroom.

Still, a hundred campus-wide parties would fail if we did not recognize where the responsibility ultimately lies—in the mind of each member of this community. Solidarity Weeks and Days at the Lake come and go, but we must foster a desire for unity that lingers after these events and stays with us as we perform our role in the college from day to day. We must agree to put the school first and to care about what we can give to the college rather than what we can get out of it. Davidson is too small not to be unified, and we owe it to each other to make it so.

Roberts & Frampton

For the past year, The Davidsonian has been fortunate enough to have two editors committed to making the Davidson newspaper a consistent and attractive publication. Maybe even more noteworthy is that for the first time ever a UNC-Charlotte student served as an incognito executive editor. Harrison Roberts and Chris Frampton created a new look for a weekly college newspaper that has become a facilitator for conversation and a forum for debate. With Harrison’s intensity and discipline and Chris’s creativity and eye for layout, they made an ideal team for leading The Davidsonian on its eternal quest to be the “South’s Foremost College Weekly.”

The 1994-95 editorial board would like to extend its thanks to Harrison and Chris. If we succeed in carrying Volume 86 any further, it will be only because we stand on the shoulders of giants (or magical leprechauns). They have taught us all we know. And besides, they’re a cute couple.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held.by the Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTERS

Students responsible for weight room

To the editors,

In the past month, something remarkable has happened. We returned to school this semester with a new weight room. Though there were some positive aspects of this addition, students began to point out the problems. A campus-wide controversy ensued. A few voices cried out rationally for a return to the old system. Gradually, the opposition to the Administration gained momentum. Our complaints flooded the Baker suggestion box. This newspaper did its part by presenting both sides' arguments, while the S.G.A. confronted the problem and dealt with it head-on.

But it was the students—in classrooms, at parties, in dorm rooms, at Baker—who elevated the discussion to a higher plane. For all the supposed apathy on this campus, it is remarkable that so many of us had the resolve to raise our voices and be heard. Last week, we learned that Baker is reopening the downstairs weight room to all students. It should come as no surprise that people listened to our requests. Had we sat back idly in January, no one would have known how we felt. Nothing would have changed.

I think we can all learn from this experience. The next time you disagree with a policy, speak up. You just might be heard.

Sincerely,
B.J. Rudell, ‘95
Junior Class President

Athletes deserve support

To the editors,

I attended Davidson College for four years, and I didn’t miss more than a handful of home basketball games in that time. I am not writing, however, with the intent of making myself the martyr of Davidson hoops. I am writing simply to thank Jason Byassee for his column in last week’s Davidsonian, and to prod the rest of the student body.

I grew up in a part of the country that doesn’t possess an athletic conference with the pride and tradition of leagues such as the ACC. I never had a Duke or Carolina just down the road. My attention instead was paid to more earthly figures such as my friends, classmates, and teammates at my own high school. I was our biggest fan, and also a dedicated athlete. I experienced some great things in sports (three straight Maine basketball championships, one state baseball title, ...). But I also knew the downside of sports. In four years my football team won only six games. My teammates and I worked our butts off five days a week in practice only to have our collective ass handed to us in Saturday’s game. Losing sucked, but we could deal with that. What really hurt was being the big joke around school because we weren’t winning. It hurt! These were friends and classmates, and they couldn’t spare the energy to support us.

I was saddened when I arrived at Davidson in the fall of 1988 and found many of the same attitudes. Things seem a little better now, but there’s still a long way to go. My point is this: our hallmates, our classmates, our friends need and deserve our support. Our student athletes aren’t like their counterparts at larger universities. They eat dinner with us. They live on our halls. They are in our 8:30 classes and they take exams with us. We are lucky to be in such a special situation where student athletes aren’t a separate population who live by a different set of rules and standards. They are our schoolmates. They are working their butts off to make the NCAAs. They deserve our respect and they deserve to have 1500 Davidson students at every home game.

In short, be a big fan! Get involved with Davidson athletics and support your school and your friends, no matter what their game. I again thank Jason for his column last week which struck the first blow against athletic apathy. And more importantly, I thank all the student athletes at Davidson for their hard work. You have given me something to look forward to and cheer about every day for the last five and a half years. I would especially like to thank the basketball players, everybody from Derek Rucker to Chris Shields. I love watching you play, win or lose. And to anyone who was nice enough to read my letter, please take it upon yourselves to thank this year’s team. Do so by showing up at the rest of their home games and yelling yourself hoarse.

Sincerely,
Peter Wagner ‘92

CALL ON US.

With the new voice mail system, readers can give us their opinions without having to confront our irritable editors directly. If you wish to respond to the question of the week send a message to our new campus opinions mailbox #22149. Do not call The Davidsonian office, please. No anonymous calls.

How do you feel about Clinton's new proposal to ban smoking in all public buildings?