RTS & LIVING

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1994

Movie Review
Interview with a Vampire
confusing, disjointed

By Tammy Tiska

I think I should have read Anne Rice’s book Interview with the Vampire before I went to see the movie. I just didn’t get it. Well, there is not much to get in the first half. Louis (Brad Pitt) feels bad about being a vampire and Lestat (Tom Cruise) tells him to get over it. I got that part. But I was totally lost in the second half when Armand (Antonio Banderas) and his French vampires kill Louis’ little vampire daughter, Claudia. I could only assume that Armand was in love with Louis and was jealous of his co-dependent relationship with Claudia. Several people have already tried to explain the logistics of the story, but to no avail.

I could have spent the movie pondering the deeper issues it raised: our fear of death, the longing for immortality, the necessity of growth in order to stay alive, etc. But I was fascinated with the little things: were those really Tom Cruise’s teeth? Why did the police never wonder who was killing all those people and drinking their blood? What did the vampires do with all the bodies? Can vampires have children? If they are flesh and blood, do they need to eat real food? Questions like this probably have simple answers, but were still distracting.

But the most distracting aspect of the movie was Tom Cruise’s performance. At no point in the film did I ever truly believe he was a nineteenth-century vampire. He just looked like he would have been more comfortable trading in his lace and frills for a leather jacket and a pair of Ray-Bans. He works in the last scene of the movie though, as he’s driving a red convertible across the Golden Gate bridge, turning up the rock song on the radio and flashing a grin. He suddenly fits. I was still left wondering how a vampire learned to drive.

Despite the garbled dialogue, the disappointing special effects, the confusion for all of us unaware of the finer points of vampirehood, and the miscasting of Cruise, the changing color of Pitt’s eyes was a source of endless fascination and made the whole film worthwhile. And besides, I got to take Mike New to his first movie since Forrest Gump, and he was more confused than I was.

A little NIGHT MUSIC...

Photo by Brooke McRae

The Davidson College Symphony Orchestra begins its FIRST Season with a performance in Love Auditorium.

By Elizabeth Lockett

It had been 40 years since symphonic music filled the air of Love Auditorium. With the inaugural concert on Thursday, November 17, 1994, the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra, conducted by Dr. Richard Prior, amazed the students, faculty, and community of Davidson with a premier performance they will never forget.

The program started with the ever-so-popular Fanfare for the Common Man, a work written by 20th-century composer Aaron Copland solely for percussion and brass.

Ringing from the balcony above, the sonorous crash of the bass drum startled the audience, literally lifting people out of their seats. With intensity and enthusiasm, the piece continued in a pompous fashion. Although the percussion was a little abrasive, the energy provided an incredible excitement for the music yet to come.

The program then changed its tone with Bach’s Brandenburg Concerto No. 5. The Baroque piece, a concerto grosso, consists of three movements with an alternation between the main orchestral group and three soloists.

Exploiting Bach’s choice of instrumentation and arrangement, the orchestra featured the fabulous talents of three soloists as well as the orchestra. With the extended harpsichord cadenza, Cynthia Lawing captured the audience with her aptitude and genius.

The other two soloists, violinist Jane Hart and flutist Jennifer Dior, also performed beautifully, maintaining a perfect balance and musical interaction among the three instruments throughout the second movement.

More importantly, the remaining orchestral group not only played the notes of the piece perfectly but shaped the piece impeccably to reach a height of passionate music.

Once again, the musicality of the orchestra, in particular the string section, shone through the performance of Mozart’s Symphony No. 29 in A Major. Headed by concertmaster Amanda Merrill, the strings’ intonation and dynamic shaping allowed for elegant musical phrasing.

The piece, in the classical sonata form, contains four movements varying in tempo and mood which allowed the orchestra to display their musical adaptation. Despite the fact that the French horns had some inharmonious moments, the orchestra did a fine job of performing an extensive and demanding work.

Filling Love Auditorium with friends and supporters, the student-comprised orchestra successfully filled the dream to share and rekindle a love for music. With such an impressive first performance, we all look forward with anticipation to a future of wonderful things to come.

Photo courtesy of Davidson Outdoors

Over the hills and through the woods...

By Courtauld McBryde

This past semester, students have explored the rivers and mountains of North Carolina. Canoeing, rafting, kayaking, backpacking, and mountain biking are only a few of the activities Davidson Outdoors offers for students and faculty.

Over Christmas break, Davidson Outdoors is offering two amazing, adventurous trips to top off the year before the spring semester begins. The Gulf sailing trip runs from January 4 through 15 and costs $325, which includes transportation, food, equipment, and the actual trip itself. The second trip is canoeing in the Everglades, which costs $175. These trips would normally cost twice as much as the price Davidson Outdoors offers students.

“These trips are designed for those people who want to go and do something at the end of Christmas break when all their friends from home have gone back to school,” says Rob Clemens, Davidson Outdoors’ student leader.

Participation in Davidson Outdoors’ trips this semester has been explosive, ranging from the

See D.O. on page 11

Photo courtesy of Davidson Outdoors