OPINIONS

exception, for if it is sheltered and not subject to change, then it ceases to accord with reality. Faith cannot
hide behind a shroud of timeless truths or eternal absolutes without becoming empty and useless. Such is a weak faith,
if indeed it can be called a faith at all. Weak faith is born of thought.

Nathan Seay

Fan mail

Distributed by Tribune Media Services: MONDAY, APRIL 11, 1994

In questioning one’s faith, one strengthens it. Strong faith and critical thought complement each other in a mutual relationship. Having
strong faith is as continual a process as having air in one’s lungs. If old air is not expelled and
new air drawn in, the body will suffocate. Furthermore, the dominant society hurtfully denies the legitimacy and vitality of what
others believe. Those of the dominant faith suffer as well, for they are lulled into a false sense of certainty
about their beliefs that can lead to claims of exclusivity. All members of the society are harmed most significantly, though,
because they are part of a structure that discourages the cultivation of strong faith.

Strong faith is possible within any of the labeled systems of faith in the world as well as those that
have not yet been recognized and named, but it is hindered when a particular system of beliefs is elevated by
a society at the expense of all others. In such a case, those whose faiths are designated as subordinate or
inferior are subject to discrimination.

Just as strong faith is essential in order to have a true and meaningful relation with the Ultimate, it is
also necessary to have true relations with each other. A person whose faith is tried and proven through close personal
examination will be secure enough to approach a person of different faith with the intent of fellowship or

See Vital on page 9

The mysteries of Davidson

A bunch of papers and stuff are coming down on me pretty soon, and instead of doing something productive, I
do absolutely everything I can think of before breaking down and going to the library. One of my favorite things
to do to waste time is go to the post office. I rarely do this since I rarely get letters
from anyone besides Rose's telling me their Halloween candy is marked way down, letters from Mom telling me that I’m
really not a failure, and the Athletic Department telling me that I’m not going to graduate until I fulfill my
physical education requirement.

Since I don’t need any Halloween candy and I don’t need anyone to tell me I have more stuff to
do before graduation, I only go when I’m desperately trying to procrastinate. I always approach good ol’ 2091 with an
air of trepidation. My box rarely is a harbinger of good tidings. I opened 2091 fully expecting the usual junk
mail. Much to my surprise, there were lots of personal letters in there. Even more surprising was that they actually
belonged in my box. Since I don’t have any good ideas this week, I’m going to let my readers take
over. It’s time to let you guys talk back to me: I must warn you that some have been slightly
edited.

Letter #1: Do you really think that you’re doing anyone a favor by filling The Davidsonian with your long, boring
ramblings? Nobody cares about you or your pitiful life. Why don’t you grow up and put all the effort you
put into those idiotic articles into something productive, like your studies? You could have a 4.0 like me.

Letter #2: What in the heck does “nay, nay, little bear” mean?

Letter #3: Like most girls in this school, I wear my keys in my back pocket. For your information, the
keys do not stick into my rear end like you claim. I wear them there because they are so comfortable
and way stylish. I can’t help it if you are such a slave to your hormones that you can’t help
but check me out as I walk by. Have you tried a cold shower?

Letter #4: I don’t want to say this to your face, but I’m in one of your classes and I
must say that it’s pretty obvious that you don’t bathe very regularly. Everyone around you would appreciate it very much
if you could find some time to take a shower. Soon.

Letter #5: That dress you wore the other day is to die for!Where on earth could I get one like
that?

Letter #6: You probably don’t remember this, but the other night you—how should I say—soiled my pants and shoes at
a party last Saturday. I’m sending you a bill for the dry cleaning.

Letter #7: This is your final warning. Stop staring at me in class or I will take legal action.

Letter #8: I have some interesting pictures of you at a certain date function. These pictures will not see the
light of day if you can come up with one thousand dollars in small, unmarked bills.

Well, folks, that’s all the space I have to share your insights with me. Please keep sending me those letters.
I need all the love and support I can get.

I’m a Texan. Not to be confused with a Southerner. Texas is its own state with its own traditions and
culture. Yeah, I guess you could say I’m proud of where I’m from. I have a Texas flag that extends
across my wall and I sing “Deep in the Heart of Texas” on call just like Pee-Wee Herman did in
his first movie. We have horses, cattle, and longhorns. I have a cowboy hat and I can two-step. I know
where George Strait lives and I open the door for women. Not only do I open the door for women,
but I was also taught always to pay for their dinner on dates (which is why I don’t go on
many dates anymore). You don’t meet dates at a destination—you pick them up, and once again, you always hold the
door open for them. This tradition is so ingrained in Texan minds that I know some women from back home
who will literally wait by a door until it is opened by a male. What can I say, that’s the
way I was raised and I have followed these rules of etiquette ever since.

Well, until now, at least. You see, the other day, I followed my ingrained instincts and opened the door for
a female without thinking twice about it. She kind of gave me a look of disapproval. Then she said, “I
can get the door for myself.” And she walked off. She wasn’t terribly rude about it, but she did seem
to be telling me something. So I became curious and brought the subject up to other female friends I have.
To my surprise, I have found that what this girl did was not atypical and, according to some of my
friends, it was actually a “mild reaction” to what others might have done. These friends told me that opening the
door for women was condescending to them. They said only to open the door for women if you plan on
opening the door for everyone. But even then one should ask a woman if she would like the door to
be opened for her.

This was a little hard for me to swallow, as it went against everything I was raised on. However, I
decided to give it a try. The next day I was with a female friend and asked her if I
could open the door for her. She laughed in my face and said, “Of course!” To be honest, I think
that she was mildly offended because I asked. You see, she was raised under similar traditions that I was. She
expects the door to be opened for her under any circumstances.

So, I guess you could say that I’m confused. As a male, I am balancing on a tightrope between my
Texas traditions and being “sexist.” I can change my habit of opening the door for women if that is what
is right. I guess I’m just confused as to why I am potentially capable of obtaining the label of being
sexist for doing something that I think is right. I am not opening the door for women to be condescending
in the least. I am opening the door to show respect. Yes, I open the door for males as well,
but I was raised to go out of my way to show respect to women. Why is that so wrong?

Before I graduate, I think it is necessary that I have a few questions answered. Many of us may have
noticed some oddities upon our arrival at Davidson, but since our freshman year, we’ve probably gotten used to certain things
here that are rather strange or inexplicable. As I walked around campus today, I tried to observe my surroundings and
compile a list of Davidson’s unexplained mysteries.

(1) To begin with, who are those two women statues with the groovy draped dresses over the entrance of Chambers?
And what the heck is that thing they are leaning against?

(2) Why is the computer center called the User Services Center? I remember calling one evening for a police escort
and when I said where I was, he said, “Oh you mean the User Services Center.” No, I meant the
computer center! Who is the brilliant one who came up with that name?

(3) What exactly is the Phi Gam Tram?

(4) Who tacked the metal tags on EVERY TREE at Davidson? Has anybody ever really read them?

(5) Do the people that refer to Warner Hall as “Warner” realize that Warner is the first name of the
man, Warner Hall? I’ve even heard members of that house making that mistake. Come on, I’m in Rusk, and I
even knew that. It would be like me saying, “I’m going down to Dean for dinner tonight.” If they do
realize that Warner is his first name, are these people close with good old Warner, and are they on a
first-name basis with him?

See What on page 10
