SPORTS 14 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1994

Football takes tough loss in season opener versus Maryville, 19-14
By Matt Pitzer

A couple of missed opportunities and big plays did in Davidson Saturday against Maryville (Tenn.). The Wildcats played well but fell 19-14 in their first game of the season. The Scots scored all three of their touchdowns on big plays — a 92-yard kickoff return, a 52-yard pass, and an 80-yard run. Maryville only managed seven first downs and about 270 yards, with more than half of those coming from two long scores.

Davidson scored first and last in the game, but it wasn’t enough. Bruce Bannister led the Wildcats with a career-high 163 yards on 27 carries, including two scores. At quarterback, Kevin Holzworth completed 13 of 32 attempts for 150 yards and no interceptions. Peter Perri was the leading receiver with 5 catches for 62 yards.

The Wildcats had chances to get into the end zone, but they couldn’t capitalize. Late in the first half, they drove from their own 20-yard line to the Maryville 3. But Davidson eventually lost the ball on downs after a penalty stunted the march. In the fourth quarter, after the Wildcats pulled within 19-14, Davidson had two more chances to take the lead. Once, they moved to midfield before being stopped. They regained possession with 40 seconds left but couldn’t move.

Davidson 7 0 0 7—14
Maryville 7 6 6 0—19

Davidson Maryville
First Downs 16 7
Rushes-yards 43-172 37-159
Passing 178 103
Comp-Att-Int 16-40-1 7-13-0
Punts 6-41 9-34
Fumbles-Lost 4-2 1-1
Penalties-Yards 6-55 4-45
Time of Poss. 35:23 24:37

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS
RUSHING—Davidson: Bannister 27-163, Jonas 5-18, Holzworth 7-0, Williams 3-3, Hill 1-(minus 6).
PASSING—Davidson: Holzworth 13-32-150, Hill 3-8-1-28.
RECEIVING—Davidson: Cowles 3-12, Bailey 2-21, Bannister 1-(minus 8), Jonas 2-42, Roberts 2-28, Dugan 1-18, Perri 5-62.

Cats' record stands 4-2
Photo by Brooke McRae

Senior co-captain Tommy Suter looks to push the ball up the field against the University of California at Los Angeles last Wednesday night during the Game of The Week featured on national television. The Cats lost 5-1. The Bruins scored four goals in the second half. The next home game

By Will Cobb

There always seems to be a game a team would like to forget. The men’s soccer team had one of those games last Wednesday when they took on the UCLA Bruins. Two years ago Davidson traveled to California over fall break and upset UCLA 3-1. The Bruins rarely lose to a team twice in a row and came to Davidson with revenge on their minds.

The Wildcats played hard and entered halftime with a 1-1 tie. The tie did not last, however, as the Bruins took the lead minutes into the second half. The quick goal seemed to stun the Wildcats as UCLA proceeded to put the game away by scoring two more goals only 19 seconds apart. The Bruins added one more goal to finish the scoring for a 5-1 victory.

The loss was disappointing for the Wildcats as the team did not play very well. Davidson had to put the game behind them quickly as they faced a strong opponent in Radford on Friday. The Wildcats rebounded with a 5-3 win in a game that was an offensive showcase. John Sampers has maintained his leadership status by scoring two goals while adding an assist. The senior leads the team in both goals and assists.

Davidson entered halftime last Friday down 3-2, but came back with a strong performance. The defense tightened up and the offense continued to strengthen, scoring three goals in the second half to improve the Wildcats' record to 4-2. Now Davidson enters a stretch of Southern Conference matches, facing Marshall yesterday on the road. The Marshall game was the first of a four-game road trip including other conference foes Appalachian State and Furman. The Wildcats will not play at home again until October 6.When they take on the 10th ranked South Carolina Gamecocks, volleyball heads to Texas for homecoming.

By Krisy Ford

After a tough week of practice, the volleyball team ventured down to Charleston to play both College of Charleston and Charleston Southern on October 9th and 10th.

“We don’t do anything special right before games, but we used the bus ride to concentrate on the upcoming games and get our minds ready to play,” said freshman Jaime Moore.

Matches are decided by the winner of the best three out of five games. Saturday’s game against Charleston Southern went all the way to the fifth game, with each team splitting two games apiece. The fifth game is somewhat different from the rest in that it is done by rally score. Whenever a team faults or loses the ball on their side, the other team scores. A team doesn’t have to be serving to score in this final game.

Sophomore Tara Smith led the team for much of the game with her accurate serving and power hitting. In charge of setting her up for the spike, senior setter Lorie Logan was always ready to start the play.

“Tara has been our key player so far this season. She’s playing great,” says freshman Amy Bourgeois. “Lorie has also been a great leader. She adds a lot of diversity to our offense with her many different sets.”

Lois Bumgarner and Michelle Augustine, as well as Bourgeois, Logan, Moore, and Smith, carried the team to match point in the final game against Charleston Southern, where they lost the match by only one point.

“We were very positive after the game,” says Bourgeois. “We realize that we’re extremely young and that we’ll make mistakes that we will work on in practice. This game was a turning point because we began to see glimpses of chemistry that we can and will continue to have in the future.”

The team opened up the season against the intimidating Georgia Tech and has continued to play a rigorous schedule. By playing a tough opening schedule, however, the team will be ready to face conference play in the middle and towards the end of their schedule.

“We're getting better every day and gaining confidence in ourselves before we enter conference play,” states Moore.

The team plays UNC-Chapel Hill on Wednesday and travels to Texas to play in the San Antonio Tournament this weekend.

Field Hockey Takes Two This Week

By David Aycock

The women’s field hockey team was in action both Wednesday and Saturday. Coming into the week’s games with a record of 2-1, the Wildcats looked to build on their early success at Catawba College and then at home against St. Louis. The Cats were able to come through with wins in both matches, as they defeated Catawba 3-1 and Saint Louis 1-0.

Saturday’s game, played on a rain-soaked field, featured tough play in the midfield and relatively few shots on goal until late in the second half, when freshman Chase Keith found the back of the net for the game-winning goal. The goalkeeping tandem of Mary Ferguson and Tamra Carhart continue to frustrate opponents, as only three goals have been given up in the first five games.

The Wildcats will play again next weekend, as they travel to the University of Ohio to play two games, one against Miami of Ohio and another against the host school. The team will not play again at home until September 28, when they take on the Blue Devils of Duke. The Cats' record now stands at 4-1 overall and 2-1 in the Deep South.

Game of the Week
Clemson vs. Indiana
Wednesday, 7 p.m.
Richardson Field

Complete Repairs on All Makes and Models
Located in Downtown Mooresville
Cool Breeze Cyclery
“For All Your Bicycling Needs”