THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1994: 9

The Commons: Eric Sapp

Viva la Revolution

Wait, maybe we don’t need a full-scale revolution, but something needs to be done. I’m not even talking about the taste of the food. The main problem with the Commons is that the food is horrible for you. In today’s day and age where there are so many medically proven reasons for eating healthy foods, the nutritional content of the stuff they serve us in the Commons is inexcusable. A balanced diet is vital to good health and good energy. It has been proven to increase people’s performance in school as well as any athletic activity in which they might participate. A good diet can reduce stress and greatly reduces the chances of sickness. That is why we as students need to make sure a change is made in what we are fed.

Today is a perfect example of what I am talking about. I got to dinner after practice and prayed all the way there that they’d have something I could eat because I was starved. I got there and walked up to the line and saw the wonderful selection before me: Salisbury steak and gravy (hamburgers in gravy), rice, and over-cooked broccoli, or just plain hamburgers, or baked potatoes at the alternative bar, or a sandwich. So, faced with all these wonderful selections, I made the decision many of us make: Sandwich time again. Now, I think Kelly (the sandwich maker) is great, but the fact that I see her at every meal concerns me.

The Commons' food has too much fat. Almost all the entrees are super greasy or made with cream sauce. For those of us who don’t want 50% of our calories to come from fat, they made the Alternative Bar. That is how they can meet their nutritional requirements, and if anyone asks about the food, they can say, “Look at the healthy stuff we’re serving them every meal. How can you say we don’t serve healthy food?” Pasta for a meal is great. Beans and rice for a meal is great. But pasta for lunch, then the leftover pasta for dinner, then pasta again for lunch the next day and the leftovers for dinner, then beans for lunch and dinner the next day just doesn’t cut it. First of all, by eating those as your main courses you miss out on the vegetables and fruits you need. But they just really start to get old after a while. Pretty much all I’ve eaten since I’ve been here has been pasta, rice and beans, and sandwiches. And it is really starting to get old.

Why can’t we get a little more variety in the Alternative Bar? Why can’t we get them to cut the fat in their dishes? Why can’t we get other fruits besides apples? Why can’t we get real fruit juices during lunch and dinner? We can; we just have to take the initiative. Maybe it is just because I’m involved in athletics and because multiple nutritionists have come in and talked to my teams about the values of eating right that this is so important to me, but it is, and I plan to do something about it. I can’t do much by myself, but we can. The Commons is not fulfilling its obligation to the students with the food it is serving. We need to do something about it. Start speaking out. Keep your eyes open for petitions to change the food in the Commons in your dorms, Chambers, and the Commons over the next few weeks, and when you see one, sign it. Say something to a teacher or administrator. Write an article in the paper. And if you really want to help, call me. We can do something about the food here. We just have to speak up.

Cracked Cymbals by Michael A. Slayton

ONE STICK of DYNAMITE, COMEDY, THREE STICKS of DYNAMITE, DRAMA

I could’ve been a better influence on my younger brother.

Murder???

Don from page 7

On our way home, we took the metro, and as we descended into the deep, bomb shelter metro station, Tony told me his biggest fear: his fear of heights. For some unexplainable reason, he was uncontrollably afraid of heights. Only once, he told me, had he ever stood on his friends’ balcony at Yale to smoke a cigarette, and even then, he hadn’t been able to get past the second drag. What, then, was he doing on the balcony of the fifteenth floor, which might not have been his room? He would never, I think, have gone out there on his own. It is to me, perhaps, the most awful and bitterly ironic ending—for Tony to have died of the thing he was most afraid of. His most immense fear was realized and took his life. Although the American Embassy is performing an investigation, the Russian militia seems to be dragging its feet—it took them five days just to send his body back home. Also, as of today they are claiming that his death was a suicide. In my opinion, that is the most ridiculous thing I have ever heard. By saying that it was a suicide instead of an accident, for example, they are making it seem more plausible that something worth hiding happened last Tuesday night. Could they be covering something up? In this country, it’s possible we might never find out. Deep down, for reasons I can’t thoroughly justify, I have a strong feeling that our smiling, goatee-sporting Tony from Brown did not fall or commit suicide.

Sincerely,
Frederique Campagne ’96

Gull’s Nest: Bill Gullan

In defense of smoking, again

P. J. O’Rourke once wrote, “Everything that’s fun in life is dangerous. Horse races, for instance, are very dangerous. But attempt to design a safe horse and the result is a cow.” There is ignorance afoot at Davidson once again, and the mob is getting uppity. Those who would ban smoking, empowered by our present Safety Nazi political leadership and by a string of pseudo-scientific “discoveries,” seem to be whining their way to victory all over America and on this campus. Let me just say to those of you who advocate a campus smoking ban: kiss my ash. Why don’t you go concentrate on something more worthwhile, like prohibit-Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The thing that has me blowing angry smoke on this one is that a ban on smoking is so easy to logically refute and is derived from such a flawed view of reality that it is nearly impossible to take these people seriously. Yet many do. Just ask the poor employees of the Commons who stream out the doors en masse during their breaks to enjoy those few forbidden drags. There are only three possible reasons to ban smoking: that one has the right not to be annoyed, that we should protect others from smoke, and that we should protect smokers from themselves. Let’s dispense with them one at a time.

First, for those who wish to ban smoking on the grounds that it is annoying and/or disgusting: let us also ban pollen; hay fever is annoying. Let us also ban smacking one’s gum and slurping one’s coffee; those are two very annoying and disgusting habits. Let us ban biting one’s toenails—disgusting. Let’s go further. I am annoyed by professors who wait until the end of class to hand back papers or tests. Let’s imprison them. Basically, after looking at this notion taken to its logical conclusion, it is clear that one has no right to forbid behavior simply because it is annoying or disgusting. Nor does one have any right to avoid annoyance other than to leave the area where the annoyer is annoying people. Or they can say, “Please stop; you are annoying me.” However, the anti-smoking people are too cowardly to actually ask a smoker to desist. They’d much rather pretend to cough when they pass me in Chambers.

Second, for those who wish to be protected from second-hand smoke: it’s not that bad. As I reported last year, there is really nothing other than a fatally-flawed and widely discredited EPA report to suggest that second-hand smoke exists. And even if this report is to be believed, the sample was done on household smoking (i.e., people who are constantly in the presence of smoking). And a study of these people still could not create an indisputable scientific conclusion. Basically, it is impossible for anyone to die of second-hand smoke at Davidson: smoking is just not that prevalent. Well, there is a way: if you happened to be standing behind me while I was smoking, and one of these hysterical safety fools took a shot at me, and I dodged the bullet. Also, on the issue of people protecting you from me, maybe they should not permit me to drive a car, as many more people are innocently run over than die from second-hand smoke. Maybe they should have gas masks as well as condoms in the medicine cabinet. Safe sex and safe smoke! A great idea. Also, since AIDS is often a result of someone not being protected from someone else, we might want to follow up the AIDS Memorial Quilt with the secondary smoke version of it. It would only be the size of a blanket or pillowcase, not a full quilt. In December, we’ll bring the Second-Hand Smoke Memorial Washcloth to Johnston Gym.

Third, to people who wish to save me from myself: I really appreciate your concern. In fact, sometimes I need to be saved at night on weekends, but for now, I think I can handle it. Go back to your seatbelt checkpoints and leave me alone. Go pass laws forbidding people from walking down the street: people are clumsy, you know. Also, tell me what to eat, how much to study, and with whom I should be friends; be my guardian angel! And when I hear that bell at Christmas, I’ll put out my cigarette and know that you have gotten your wings. But don’t fly, it’s dangerous—even for an angel.

Here’s my conclusion: you have no case, you have no scientific facts on your side, and you have no right to deny me my freedom. You have your freedom of screech; I’ll exercise my freedom of smoke.

Am I strong enough to survive an interracial relationship?

Oil and Water from page 8

It takes an extremely strong individual to get involved in an interracial relationship. Maybe some of us don’t like them because we are not strong enough to ignore the “rules of society” and face our own genuine feelings for someone of another race. I believe those who have genuine feelings and the strength to go with those feelings should be commended rather than ridiculed, because both individuals will undoubtedly have to face several negative responses on a daily basis, without the ability to hide.

And even if some people get involved in interracial relationships because of stereotypes, why should we be concerned? If they are truly that weak, would we really want to date them anyway? It is logical to believe that people from different races can fall in love. I was always told that opposites attract. I was always told that true love is blind. So, why can’t these same rules apply to interracial dating?

Personally, I never use color as a prerequisite for dating someone. Still, I wonder if I am strong enough to survive in an interracial relationship. I always tell people that if I ever fall for a white woman, she would have to be beautiful, intelligent, witty, and strong. But for me to fall for any woman, of any race, she would have to possess those same characteristics. So what’s the difference?

On this campus, I feel that most white students fear dating someone of color. Maybe this is because of what their friends would say, or maybe just because of the society that we live in. I can say for sure that if you stay away from dating someone of color because of fear, you are missing out on a lot. I know for sure that the African-American men on this campus can “stimulate” women in more ways than one. And I am sure that the African-American women on this campus can stimulate men as well. Still, you should never date based on race. As soon as more of us think in this manner, tension concerning interracial dating might begin to dissipate. We all may never agree with interracial dating, but we all might have to accept it eventually.

If you want to write for Opinions, go ahead. But your article will NOT be printed unless it is on a Macintosh disk. I mean it.