OPINIONS _ 8 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1994

During a parents’ forum on post-Davidson opportunities, in the pages of The Davidsonian, and in the halls of Chambers, we
have become aware of concerns about Davidson’s grading and academic rigor. A recurring theme is that this rigor, reflected in
our challenging curriculum and grading standards, can have a negative impact on the future of our students. Let us offer
a few reflections on these issues.

Social scientists have long discussed the phenomena associated with a “pure public good.” With a private good, like an ice
cream cone, one person’s consumption of the good diminishes another’s ability to consume it. In contrast, with a pure public
good, like a lighthouse, one person’s consumption of the good does not diminish another person’s consumption of the good. Moreover,
with a public good, it is difficult to exclude “non-payers,” who then have an incentive to avoid paying for the
good. These non-payers are called “free-riders.” As a result, with public goods, there is a recognizable need for interventions, such
as taxation, to ensure that all pay their fair share.

Davidson’s reputation for academic excellence is really a form of public good. Each graduate leaves the college with an ability
to enjoy the benefits of the college’s reputation without diminishing another’s consumption of it; also, we cannot exclude the “less
academically serious” graduates from enjoying the benefits of the college’s reputation. While at Davidson, students and faculty can be subject
to the temptation to avoid paying the full price of these demanding standards. What does all this mean for academic
policy? Essentially, academic policy should reinforce the college’s rigor and discourage those who might be tempted as “free-riders.” Fortunately, we
have structures in place that support our faculty’s desire for high standards. In our review of untenured faculty, the administration
and tenured departmental colleagues consider rigor and standards in their evaluation of the untenured. Unfortunately, however, faculty can be subject
to pressure to compromise on the issue of rigor. To the extent that enrollments and student evaluations are negatively affected
by rigor, some potential for an erosion of standards exists.

A central issue is whether enrollment and satisfaction are increasingly driven more by the prospect of good grades than by
a stimulating and challenging experience. With some justification, students are concerned with their actual GPA at graduation, fearing that too
low a GPA will keep them from their desired graduate admission or employment. From this perspective, seeking a course that
has a lower grading standard is rational and is consistent with the “free-riding” hypothesis: “I will enjoy the college’s reputation
for rigor, but by seeking less rigorous courses, I do not have to pay the full price for the benefit.”
Please note we are not saying that any one course at Davidson College is very easy or is a pure
give-away. We are simply stating the fact that figures released from the Registrar’s office show that there is significant variance
in GPAs awarded by department, and even greater variance in the GPAs across individual faculty members.

Over the last 15 years of advising students, we have seen students increasingly influenced in their choice of courses by
the expected grade in a course compared to the workload. Unfortunately, this trend places faculty in the position of assessing
their grading standards and course demands relative to others at the college. Fortunately, there is resistance to compromising standards; yet,
the pressure for such compromise exists. In contrast, were course enrollments driven exclusively by the academic merit of the course,
faculty would receive a different set of incentives.

We have a few suggestions for remedying this situation. First, students should realize that preserving the rigor of the college
contributes to their post-graduate success. The letters of recommendation written by our faculty for our students invariably comment on Davidson’s
grading standards, placing them within a national perspective. Rigorous courses improve skills that are needed for...

See Econ on page 9

Clark G. Ross & Peter N. Hess
Grades, standards, and public goods
Academic policy should reinforce the college’s rigor and discourage those who might be tempted as “free-riders.”It is remarkable, isn't it?
Where are you? That blank rumble of tenets beats. I am going to be brief. Where are our strong Latino
and African-American men of Davidson’s campus? Why is there only a handful of you in leadership positions? What are you
doing to foster progressive change here on campus and in the community at large? Do you think you have it
so good here? Are you so comfortable at Davidson that there isn’t a need to stand up and demand an
equal opportunity to enjoy your college experience? Why do our beautiful and active young women of color always outnumber our
men at nearly every MBEHO event or meeting? Where are the Linsey Mills, Rafael Candelarios, Armando Sanchezes, and Anthony Foxxes?
They were committed to changing the Davidson environment for future men of color versus having them go through a similar
hell. I do see Ike Bailey consistently pricking our conscience about race relations, equality, education, and the ability to change.
I applaud his efforts, but we need others to take a stand for something (or you will fall for anything).
By far, you are some of the most intelligent people on this campus, but something is rotting away your ambition,
pride, and tenacity. If you have something to say about this issue I have raised, please come down to the
BSC house on December 2 at 7:00 p.m. We have invited Minister Lee of the Nation of Islam and the
Fruit of Islam to help. In the attempt to ascertain “Where do we go from here?” I hope some real
men, Black and Latino, will be there also.

Matthew Hobbie

The inclusion principle

Here at Davidson, we do not exclude any student based on sex, race, or creed. That’s great (truly), but we
cannot rest on our laurels—there is much to be done. We must find all instances of exclusion at Davidson and
eliminate them. Exclusion is wrong, and it is up to open-minded and moral people such as us to put it
in its place. First, we exclude those who are “academically challenged” so we must lower our academic standards to include
these people. Come to think of it, some people, in fact, many people (smart, dumb, or indifferent) cannot afford to
experience Davidson. So, let’s lower tuition to about six thousand dollars a year (roughly the in-state tuition at Carolina) so
that we can include these people. Whadda ya say? We could do without our high-quality Commons food (nutritious or not)
and the laundry service. We could then convert Baker Sports Complex into the new Town of Davidson YMCA. Why should
we exclude the town from such wonderful facilities anyway? Since we can no longer afford its upkeep, we will definitely
need the funds from each townsperson’s yearly membership. By lowering the tuition, we may also say goodbye to our first-rate
professors. Bye y’all! Not to say that professors are greedy, but a first-rate professor deserves a first-rate salary and a
top-rate school. Davidson will cease being a top-rate school, remember, when we stop requiring a diploma for admission. We do
not want to exclude the high school dropout, you know. As far as the leadership of the college goes, who’s
to say one person is better than another in, say, the president’s chair? We wouldn’t want to set any qualifications
for the job, because any qualification would definitely exclude someone. So anyone is fair game. Heck, I could be a
great president and so could you! Why don’t we each take turns? And since the president’s positions don’t influence the
school, anything we say or do is just dandy. “No morning classes!” we’ll decree. They exclude night people. Oh, but
many people cherish their free afternoons and night classes would definitely exclude morning people. Our solution? “No class at all!”
That’s fair enough. Although, we will exclude those who came here to get an education. Wait... who let them in?

Write for Opinions. Call Robert Ramsay - 6152.
