12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1994

Holocaust survivor speaks on his experience as part of Schindler’s List
By Geordie Schimmel

The 900 Room in the Union was crowded shoulder to shoulder on Sunday, October 30. Students and other members of
the Davidson community took any available seat — on the ground or on the stairs — to listen to Zev
Kedem, a Holocaust survivor whose life was saved by Oskar Schindler.

Kedem’s story is the story of a survivor. Recalling his childhood, he spoke about hiding with his grandparents and sister
in a pigeon coop, where he could hear German soldiers searching his house. He spoke about what life was like
for a young Jewish boy during Nazi Germany, sneaking in and out of concentration camps. Kedem recounted his early and
somewhat ironic entry into concentration camp life: his mother, to keep him alive, smuggled him into the camp inside a
loot wagon loaded with ransacked treasures from Jewish homes.

Kedem went through six concentration camps where he was “a moving target in a society that had no respect for
human life” before gaining his freedom. But the most terrible aspect of the Holocaust ordeal, Kedem said, was psychological: the
utter lack of hope.

Yet from his broken beginnings and his Holocaust education of basic survival, Kedem rose to be a great man. Receiving
a degree from Oxford, he went on to pursue filmmaking and has made several noteworthy documentaries. Eventually, Kedem became interested
in making a film about Schindler, but querying studios about the idea, he found that he had been pre-empted —
Stephen Spielberg already had the rights to it. However, Kedem was asked to assist in the film, and being both
a documentary filmmaker and one of Schindler’s survivors, he was in a unique position to do so.

Although initially skeptical about the union of “Hollywood and Holocaust,” Kedem is pleased with Spielberg’s Schindler’s List.

After his speech, when he received questions from the audience, Kedem demonstrated his flair for quick thought. When a question
was asked about what he thought of the Germans after the Holocaust, Kedem paused, drew in a deep breath, and
responded that one must not generalize a race. To do that, he said, is to do what the Nazis did
to the Jews. And to an observation that the film is not wholly consistent with the actual Holocaust, Kedem remarked
that the aim of the movie is not to give a fact-by-fact, piece-by-piece description of the event, but rather to
allow an audience to empathize with it.

Like the film which Kedem both lived and helped bring to fruition, Zev Kedem’s story is more than the recounting
of a political event. It is the story of the suffering, preservation, and triumph of the human spirit. Sincere thanks
to the Union Speakers Committee for hosting this event.

Heathen Valley opens this weekend
Hicks continued from page 10

A native of the North Carolina mountains himself, sophomore Josh Buchanan plays the bizarre and disturbing Harlan. His wife Cora
is played by senior chemistry major Valerie Whitlock, who also appeared in last spring’s Chamber Music. Freshman Heather Baldwin debuts
as the delightful character Juba.

The Bishop’s task is to bring to these people a sense of peace and harmony, one which he believes the
Episcopal church can provide. The play focuses not only on how the people react to his message but also on
the personal struggles he faces in his own search for truth. Higdon describes the play as “very powerful... sort of
a parable for our times.” Although the play works on many subtle levels, he sees it as having a broad
appeal. “I’ve taken an approach to this play of just telling the story... and letting the audience decide, letting the
audience decipher things for themselves,” he says. The show promises to be both thought-provoking and entertaining.

Heathen Valley is the second major theater production this fall. The play runs from Wednesday, November 9, toSunday, November 13,
in the Black Box Theatre of Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Shows start at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday through Saturday, with a
Sunday matinee at 2 p.m. Tickets can be reserved or purchased weekdays from 2 to 5 p.m. at the box
office in Cunningham, or by phone at 892-2340. Tickets will also be sold at the door. The cost is $4
for the general public and $3 for senior citizens and students with a Davidson ID.

Photo by Rob Kosicki
Zev Kedem tells students about the horrors of the Holocaust.

Monogamous couples get the most

Sexy Reading from page 11

According to our survey, 19% of Davidson seniors are virgins.

Number and Frequency

There’s Casey, walking home from a Court party with Lee. And just last night Lee was with Terry. And Terry
has gone out with all of Casey’s friends, including Chris, who was walking home from Building F (Sasha’s place) Thursday
morning. With all of the fraternizing that seems to go on here, the results of our survey are surprising. 32%
of the women have had only one sexual partner in their lives. Then again, 32% have had 2-4, 14% have
had 5-10, and 4% have had 11-20. Some were just wild in high school, though, because 44% have only slept
with one person since coming to college. For the men, the results were a bit different, 36% have slept with
5-10 partners, 27% have slept with 2-4 partners, and only 9% have batted a single. In college, 41% of Davidson
men sleep with 2-4 people, 18% go strong with 5-10, and 14% think one is enough.

And is sex at Davidson influenced by alcohol as much as everyone seems to think? Not according to the 58%
of women who cite affection as their prime motivation, and the 24% who insist they play for pleasure. With men,
59% desire the pleasure of sex, and 27% are affected by affection. Only 6% of women and 18% of men
said that they most commonly have sex under the influence.

Exactly how often do these motivations serve as a preamble to bigger and deeper things? In the last year, 16%
of women and 59% of men have only had sex a few times, 22% of women and 9% of men
have had sex a few times a month, 28% of women and 5% of men have exercised 2-3 times a
week, and a weary 2% of the women did the horizontal tango at least 4 times a week.

The Chicago report showed that married couples and couples involved in monogamous relationships were having the most sex. Our survey
reflected this. The most sexually active seniors were the ones who have had a single partner since coming to college.

What is Done

The Chicago report says that “most Americans don’t go in for the kinky stuff” (Time Magazine). Neither do Davidson seniors.
Vaginal and oral sex were the most popular shared act, with 72% of women and 82% of men engaging in
one or the other in the past year. As for masturbation, 95% of men did it, and 34% of women
had the guts to admit it. A small percentage, 4% of men and 2% of women, have engaged in anal
sex. It appears that the whips and the chains remained in the closet. The question asking about sex with a
member of the same gender was answered affirmatively by 2% of senior women.

Orgasms have always been a topic of dissension between men and women. Let the argument continue, because 71% of the
sexually active men aver to have an orgasm every time they have sex; only 12% of the women make the
same claim. 40% of women and 24% of men have an orgasm most of the time, and 21% of women
and 6% of men sometimes have a quiver of love. Another 21% of women, although sexually active, and some with
numerous partners, never have an orgasm during sex.

Safety

AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases have made unpro-

See Last Part on page 13
