THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 14, 1994

Recently, when a sensible male friend asked me if I was “one of those feminists,” I began to question how much the average person understands about the women’s movement. My supposition was confirmed when he continued, “I mean, do you shave your legs?” If we are following my friend’s definition, I must deny the feminist claim. I must also denounce the array of negative images that you conjured up in your mind when you read the word “feminist.” These images might be appropriate for some feminists, but in the broader sense, they have nothing to do with my goals or the goals of the women’s movement.

Contrary to popular belief, many feminists believe that men should be the head of the household. Many would be happy to devote their lives to their husbands and children instead of to a career. Many are conservative, traditional women who melt at the idea of a bouquet of roses from a man. I, for example, fit into this category. By definition, feminism is the belief that women should be given rights equal to those of men, such as equal wages in the workplace and equal representation in government. All other personal beliefs vary with the individual. When Gloria Steinem makes normative claims about my morality or my sexuality, she is stepping out of line.

Having clarified our definition, I would like to add that feminists can even be men. The United Nations conducted a study on women and girls in the national context. Using such indicators of well-being as literacy rates, access to health care, political representation, and economic status, the report concluded that women are less well-off than men in every country in the world.

The United States is no exception to the U.N.’s conclusion. Here, a woman is the victim of domestic violence every 12 seconds. One-third of all women murdered in the U.S. are killed by their husbands or boyfriends. One out of every three women is raped in her lifetime. A study by another organization, Women for Economic Justice, discovered that women hold two-thirds of all minimum wage jobs, and women’s wages have seen virtually no increase (in real dollars) over the past 30 years. In addition, the study stated that more than half of all poor families are supported by single women.

A more functional understanding of feminism recognizes the common goal of helping women in need. Feminists have a particular concern for the economic, social, and physical well-being of women and girls. Through meetings and projects, they come together to facilitate communication among themselves, raise public consciousness about pertinent issues, and provide support for each other. That women are in need of help is not debatable. Recently, the woman who turns up at the door of a shelter is one of the strongest women you'll ever meet. She has survived to show up.

Women are clearly under-represented in government. Even after 1992, the so-called “Year of the Woman” in American electoral politics, women hold only six percent of the seats in Congress. Everyone deserves to be treated on a non-biased basis.

Evian continued from page 7

Parents have the means to live well to feel guilty. On the contrary, more power to those who struggled and made it. I’m just asking you to look into the real world for a change and realize there is so much more out there and to understand that “surplus” and “boom” are not the prevalent terms being used by today’s global economic analysts.

Finally, I would like to address Mr. Barron’s comparison of firing an employee for being gay and firing an employee for being a member of the KKK. True, in the first instance, we sympathize with the fired employee because it’s not his fault he’s gay, and after all, he probably doesn’t go around throwing himself at every same-sex worker he encounters. We see the employer’s homophobia as irrational if the gay worker’s sexual orientation is not interfering with his work (just as a heterosexual’s orientation should not interfere with his/her work). It is also true that in the latter instance, we tend to sympathize with the employer because the KKK breeds hatred and injustice. I agree, but it's still not right for the employer to fire in either circumstance. I certainly am not advocating the actions of the Klan, but quite frankly, if I were in the position of the second employer, and my employee’s personal pastime activities were not in the way of his/her work, I could not justify firing him/her.

Now, don’t think I support the Klan, but what I do believe is that everybody deserves to be treated equally and fairly on a non-biased basis. The premise of this nation’s freedoms is based on just that. And while I may disagree with (okay, hate) the Klan, the freedom this nation gives me to express my views is the same freedom that allows such groups to exist. Freedom in this country is not discriminatory. It either exists or it doesn’t. It’s ironic, though, that the exact freedom that Mr. Barron advocates taking away from certain individuals is the same freedom that allows people like him to publicly speak their minds. Or is it his opinion that only white, Christian, straight males are deserving of such liberties? Based on the justifications his article offers for discriminating against innocent people, it certainly appears that way. No discrimination is right, just, or fair.As you have the freedom to think and feel however you do, remember that it is that same freedom that affords everybody else those exact same liberties. The government has to play moderator because, as we can see from Mr. Barron’s enlightened viewpoint, not all children play fair. In closing, I would like to ask Mr. Barron this: imagine you are hired by this great law firm of which I am the senior partner. After a few years, you become a partner, and I’m paying you at least a million a year, and everything is great. Ten years down the line, I decide I hate people from Tennessee. Not for any particular reason—I just decide one day that I think they’re scum. So, I fire you. (Because, although your accent doesn’t give you away, I somehow discover you are originally from Tennessee.) Are you saying, in following your own stand on the issue, that you wouldn’t take me to court?

Jenn Williams is a junior from New York.

The U.S. Senate and 11 percent of the seats in the House of Representatives. Homeless women are at a disadvantage because most daytime shelters are mixed or serve mostly men. The staff member of one program for homeless women commented, “Women are not safe from rape and abuse and are intimidated about asking for what they need in those shelters. Some spaces, such as bars or pornographic movies, where men spend time during the day, are not available to homeless women at all.” A staff person at another organization said, “The woman who turns up at the door of a shelter is one of the strongest women you'll ever meet. She has survived to show up.”

For men, poverty is often the result of unemployment, and a job is a frequent remedy. For women, however, due to the wage gap and labor market segregation, poverty often remains even when the woman works full time. Furthermore, jobs that do not provide child care present an impossible barrier for poor single mothers. U.S. women who work outside the home still spend almost 3.5 hours doing housework and child care for every hour that men who are employed outside the home do. Feminists believe that women’s and girls’ projects—nonprofit programs specifically devoted to improving women’s and girls’ lives—could help to overcome the severity of the previously mentioned disadvantages that women face.

All stereotypes of feminists, besides the belief that their goal is to help women in need, are prejudiced and usually false. Some feminists have found that they must speak up strongly in the face of injustice, as did the female friend of Holt Vaughan in the article he wrote last week. Other people address women's issues through direct activism. Regardless of their approach, of their specific aims, or of whether or not they shave their legs, feminists share a vision: the overall improvement of women's and girls' well-being. Any other understanding of the word "feminist" is a misconception.

There is rhythm to a cane.

Amble continued from page 7

Only a few feet, so that each step defines that we are separate from base things, like dust and other creatures, but I do not think this is from where the dignity arises. It could be that there is consolation in defining oneself against the earth, and as we step down to meet the ground pounding upward, we are reassured in some small way. But I wonder if there are any people truly like this at heart. Maybe there once were. Did Mozart compose because it was better than homework? Is that why there aren’t Mozarts these days? And why are the elevators crammed with athletes? Who is left to do things not because they are easy, but because they are hard? I don’t know.

As for me, there is something almost archetypal in travelling to a new place. But these simple observations fall short of the greater truth. Walking is good because it is. It represents, at least (and maybe only) to me, the striving for excellence. I walk because I can, some of the time, anyway. If there is any virtue intrinsic in walking, that is where it lies: the achievement of potential in the face of abnormality. But who does anything for this reason these days? Do we do even half of the things that we do because they are excellent? Even for the artistic people I know, it seems that they do most of what they do because it is easy. The few that don’t continually inspire me.

A cane is not a musical instrument, although there is a rhythm to it. Using it to walk is not what a symphony is—it is not so expressive of the human soul. But it is expressive, it is mine, it is the thing I do—or at least one of them. Maybe that is what the fundamentalists mean when they speak of being called by God. I don’t think so, but I think it’s what they should mean. All I know is that the trick is to be somehow as appreciative of the sore feet as of the trees. Somehow, life is good and painful, and these are not opposites.