THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1994

LEIGH RAWDON - Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Executive Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Managing Editor

The Davidsonian

ASHLYN DANNELLY - News Editor
RUSS TARVER - Ass't News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts & Living Editor
WILL COBB - Sports Editor
BROOKE McCRAE - Photography Editor
WILLIAM ROBERT - Copy Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES - Advertising Manager

Some assembly required for ages 3 and up # batteries not included

Just CUT AND Paste YOUR VERY OWN THE DAVIDSONIAN MALE COOL KIT

SCOTT HILE - Operations Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN - Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD - Circulation Manager
ERIK SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

LETTERS

Flyers show insecurity and inferiority

To the editors,

We would like to respond to the individual who feels he can speak for “all the men out there.” As
many of you know, the women of this campus received a letter from this man, which described his feelings of
sexual tension and repression. As we were touched by this show of honesty, perhaps the use of “howdy bitches” and
“what the f— is up, babes?” shows why this guy isn’t “getting any.” Simply put, this anonymous letter is crude
and unwarranted. How this man feels he can speak for men in general amazes us. He masked his personal feelings
under the umbrella of a majority opinion because he did not have the courage to express them as his own.
Our distinguished gentleman in question cannot accept his own inferiority. Instead, he chooses to blame it on the women of
Davidson. He has obviously forgotten that relationships are investments, not outlets for sex. The point of college is not to
“get laid”; we didn’t see that in the viewbook. Perhaps this man should re-evaluate his reasons for attending Davidson. This
man is shallow in more ways than one—otherwise, he would have signed his name. If this letter is a plea
for us to “put out” more, then he has failed in his mission to charm and disarm us. What we
have been trying to say nicely without insulting the other men out there is: go to hell.

Sincerely,
Ashley Menger ’98
Susan Blue ’98

Give them what they want: co-ed dorms

The SGA has spoken once again. Tuesday night, those chosen to represent our student body said “yes” to optional co-ed
freshman housing. This proposal is no passing fancy. This is the second year in a row that the students have
mandated a change in the single-sex freshman residential policy, and it is time that the administration and the trustees listen
to the students on this issue.

We hope that the proposal is not ignored this year by the CCRL and other committees that it must pass
in order to be put into effect. Anyone on these committees, even if they disagree with the reasons to want
co-ed freshman dorms, should heed the students’ call to pass the proposal and improve gender relations on campus. It’s the
students who do the living on campus, and it’s the students who know best what their living situation ought to
be. They have asked for this change twice now. If the students consistently say it’s what they want, what more
reason could you need?

India group plea for mail

To the editors:

As many of you may be aware, there is a group of sixteen Davidson students abroad in India this semester.
You might also have heard that various forms of plague are sweeping this vast subcontinent, and the death toll rises
daily. Despite government travel warnings, this stoic group, in its never-ending quest for knowledge and cultural enrichment, presses onward. However,
living in the shadow of impending doom is taking its toll; the one bright light in this fearful darkness is
MAIL! Our only request is that you take a few minutes from your rigorous academic and social schedules to drop
a line of encouragement or support. Perhaps KA could organize a letter-writing party, or maybe the student body could gather
on B.J.’s new basketball courts. We encourage you to write.Now, because tomorrow could be too late. Letters may be sent
to the following address: DAVIDSON COLLEGE GROUP, c/o Prof. J.P. VIJAYATHILAKAN, MADRAS CHRISTIAN COLLEGE, MADRAS 600 059, INDIA.

Sincerely,
Davidson in India 1994

Soccer brought to May to May a national level

On Thursday, October 20th, Davidson defeated Georgia Southern, giving Charlie Slagle his 150th career victory. We here at the Davidsonian
would like to congratulate both the team and its leader on this momentous achievement. In just the past four years,
Slagle and those involved in the soccer program have helped bring Davidson and college soccer in general to national attention.
Their participation in the NCAA final four, the USA’s World Cup team’s exhibition match, and this year’s Game of the
Week, have drawn sports coverage at Davidson unknown since the basketball hey-days of the 1960s. Congratulations on another feather in
your cap and good luck in the future.

To the editors,

I would like to sincerely apologize to Nat May and the Union Board for the misunderstanding caused by my last
article (“Whose Homecoming?”). The offense taken at this article was completely unforeseen and unintended by myself. Everyone at Davidson College
appreciates all the hard work that is put into the many events that the Union provides, including the future appearance
of the AIDS Memorial Quilt. In calling the Homecoming Dance for Independents “weak,” I was referring to the student turnout
and not to the quality of all Union-sponsored events in general. However, I feel the point of my article would
remain unchanged by eliminating the offensive sentence. No matter who the organizer is, a campus-wide dance must have the support
of the entire student body, which is simply not the case. The challenge for the Union, SGA, Dean of Students,
and all willing is to make this a reality. Again, my humblest apologies to Nat May and others thus offended.

Sincerely,
Ken May

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian
requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all
letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey
Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by
the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

Over-experienced???

In response to Kimberly Kreiling’s article, “The Giant Feast of Experience,” I’d say she could use some more experience. She
is not entitled to deem herself “over-experienced” merely because she grew up in (heaven forbid) New York City. I wouldn’t
exactly consider observing tattoos and body piercing as a life-changing process, nor would I find it unusual for someone to
read foreign language billboards in a subway. I’ve grown up in seven different countries, gone abroad for a semester, and
traveled all over the world. However, I would hardly consider myself “over-experienced.” Experience is not measurable, nor is it confined
to one’s observations in a big city, as Kreiling suggests. She needs to realize that Davidson, like any other college,
is also an experience. Our school should not be seen as an oversimplified “blue-ridged haven” or an escape from “what
felt like a lifetime of shocks to the system.” Experience is not observing “weird” things. It’s taking advantage of life
and appreciating the environment you’re in, realizing that everything is an experience, life-changing or not. Whether you like it or
not, life is an “experience,” and coming to Davidson does not relieve you of your imagined experiential overdose.

Sincerely,
Courtney Gilbert ‘95
