SPORTS - MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1994

Sailing team wins another regatta, still #1 in the SAISA
By Andrew Cole

On Sunday, Davidson hosted the Second North Points regatta of the fall season. In the A Division, Dave Saudek and
Andrew Cole with crews Steinen Gerla and Thu Thieu each sailed half the races, combining for second place with a
first, five seconds, and a third place, one point behind College of Charleston. In the B division, Graham Ernst and
Lara Onkey came out and dominated early, with six first places and a third to win handily. Combining scores, Davidson
won with 23 points, 18 ahead of Charleston, which was second. Following Charleston were Savannah College of Art and Design,
Clemson, UNC-Wilmington, The Citadel, N.C. State, and Duke.

In the fall North Points competition in the SAISA, Davidson is handily on top, having taken first place in both
competitions for a total score of two points. Tied for second in North Points are Clemson and College of Charleston,
each with 6 points, followed by The Citadel with 9 points. The sailing team will compete in the last North
Points regatta next weekend in Charleston. With two first places, the team has clinched a berth in the SAISA Fall
Dinghy Championships which will determine which teams qualify for the Atlantic Coast Dinghy Championships.

Men's soccer to face #7 Gamecocks this Thursday
By Will Cobb

Lightning is not supposed to strike twice, but last Tuesday the men’s soccer team got shocked. For the second time
this season, the Wildcats fell to an arch-rival by one goal in a game filled with controversy. The Furman Paladins
handed Davidson its third loss of the season, 2-1, and took first place in the conference standings behind a goal
late in the second overtime. The Wildcats then traveled to Durham to face the Duke Blue Devils and left with
a frustrating 3-3 tie.

For the second season in a row, Davidson will have to compete without goalie Alex Deegan down the stretch. He
suffered a knee injury after a collision with a Furman player and will be out for the next six weeks.
After the collision, Deegan was on the ground and asked for play to be stopped, but the game went on.
When the ball came down to the Davidson side of the field, Deegan was still down, so midfielder Fernando Campos
grabbed the player two yards outside of the box to prevent the player from shooting. Following a delay, the referee
awarded Furman with a penalty kick and Matt Hill entered the game to face a penalty kick for the second
time this year.

Things never really got better for the Wildcats as they scored a goal that was never recorded. John Sampers got
a hold of a loose ball and placed his shot to the top of the net. Somehow the ball came
out of the goal but was never honored. A player asked the referee why the goal was not given since
the ball clearly hit the net. The referee agreed the ball hit the net but did not count as a
goal. Go figure? The frustrating loss left the players with a feeling of a curse. The team has yet to
get a break this season. They are overdue for one, but no sign appears in sight, yet.

The Wildcats have refused to let up and the game against Duke proved they would not let distractions affect their
game. Neal Andrews played in goal for the first time this season, coming back from his injury a couple of
weeks early. Andrews played well through the pain and appears to be in playing shape by the South Carolina game.
The Wildcats now stand at 6-3-1 on the season with a 3-1 conference record. Following the South Carolina game here
this Thursday, Davidson will not play again until October 12 against VMI. The Wildcats will then play five games in
a nine-day period against teams like North Carolina.

Field hockey team stays strong with 5-3 record
By Rich Glenn

The Davidson field hockey team had a week of ups and downs. The ‘Cats traveled to Ohio last weekend to
play against Miami of Ohio and Ohio University. The game against Miami of Ohio ended up in a 4-1 loss,
with freshman Erin Smith ‘98 scoring the lone goal for the Wildcats. Chase Kieth ‘98 said, “The Miami of Ohio
game showed us a different style of play. We are used to playing finesse teams whereas Miami played a very
physical game.” The following day the ‘Cats faced the Ohio University squad and came away with a 1-0 victory as
Erin Smith ‘98 again came up big for Davidson.

The Wildcats returned to Davidson and played regionally ranked Duke at home on Wednesday. This game was perhaps the best
of...The season for the Wildcats. The game was played with a great deal of emotion and was chock full of
excitement. It ended with a 3-2 victory for the ‘Cats after speedy Erin Smith ‘98 scored a breakaway goal in
overtime. Smith also scored earlier in the game and Andrea Short ‘95 scored the other goal. Robin Pepper ‘95 played
brilliantly at the sweeper position. Pepper literally saved the game by reaching behind the goalie to knock out a potential
goal late in the game. “The Duke victory showed us that we are capable of stepping up and playing well
in the big games,” said Jessica Roy ‘98.

The ‘Cats traveled to Wake Forest on Saturday where they were looking for the second straight victory over a regionally
ranked opponent. Unfortunately, the transition from a grass playing surface to artificial turf caused the ‘Cats to struggle early in
the game. The Demon Deacons played well throughout the game and came away with a 4-0 victory. The ‘Cats record
now stands at 6-3 and they look forward to their road trip to Louisville this weekend where they will play
three games in the school’s invitational. Their next home game will be on October 19 against Appalachian State.

Sailing team takes first place again this week. Photo by Brooke McRae

Football still searching for win #1
By Dave Aycock

The Davidson football team entered Saturday night’s game against Guilford with the expectations of gaining their first victory of the
season. Playing under the lights at Richardson Field for the first time in 43 years, the Wildcats dropped their third
game in a row by a score of 34-14. The last time a Davidson football team played a home game
at night, the year was 1951, and they lost that game as well, by a score of 21-7 to Lenoir-Rhyne.

The game began as a close contest with the score tied at 7-7 after one quarter. The ‘Cats were able
to answer a Quaker touchdown on their second series, as freshman quarterback Hamilton Hill found Kevin Holzworth in the middle
of the field. Holzworth made the reception and streaked down the sideline past the Guilford secondary for 58 yards and
six points. Sean Callahan converted the extra point and the game was tied.

The second quarter brought about the Wildcats’ demise, as Guilford was able to score two touchdowns and run the score
to 21-7. The Wildcats were plagued in the first half by two important factors: the overall team speed of the
Quakers and a bad case of fumble-itis. Guilford quarterback Santes Beatty and tailback David Heggie were able to continually run
around the corners of the Wildcat defense, forcing the ‘Cats linebackers and secondary to make the tackles. Fumbles were also
a problem, as Davidson coughed up the ball five times, and lost it twice, both times ending successful drives.

The fifteen-minute halftime break seemed to help the ‘Cats regain some of their fire, as they were able to play
tougher and make more stops in the defensive line. James Cassidy and Mills Ariail both had success in stopping the
Quaker running game between the tackles. However, Beatty was nearly unstoppable in the passing attack, as his receivers were able
to haul in nearly everything he threw. Guilford was able to score again, as Beatty broke through the defense, running
the score to 27-7.

The fourth and final quarter began as a continuation of the third. The ‘Cats were able to play well on
defense, but big gains kept Guilford rolling down the field. The Quakers scored their last touchdown of the night on
a rushing touchdown by Renado Hairston. After the score was 34-7, the Wildcat offense finally found some life, after being
continually shut down in the second and third quarters. Hill was able to get some protection from his line, and
he made the most of it by driving the Wildcats down the field, using medium-range passes over the middle and
to the sidelines. Hill capped the drive off with a 21-yard touchdown pass to running back Pete Perri in the
corner of the end zone. Callahan was good again on the point after, and the score reached its final margin
of 34-14.

The ‘Cats cannot be faulted on their effort Saturday night. It seemed like it was just one of those days
where plays that are normally made automatically are not executed well. The Davidson quarterbacks spent most of their evening scrambling
from the pocket and trying to find time in the face of an almost overpowering Guilford rush. The defense found
itself struggling to keep up with the quicker Quaker backfield and receiving corps. The ‘Cats will take the field again
next Saturday afternoon at 1:30 against Washington & Lee, where, hopefully, the team will be able to break through for
a much-deserved first win.
