THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, MARCH 14, 1994 11

Urban Bush Women electrify

By Laura Liebfreid

Did you ever think you’d be sitting on the edge of your seat, swaying to the beat of the conga
drum, utterly enraptured by the movement of eight African American dancers, and wishing it would never end? Neither did I,
until witnessing the Urban Bush Women this past Tuesday night.

Urban Bush Women was founded by Artistic Director Jawole Willa Jo Zollar in 1984. Based in New York City, her
company includes a worldly mix of dancers, from as far as Jamaica to as close as Virginia. While the company
focuses primarily on movement, their incorporation of drama, live music, and speech adds a unique flavor that is readily welcomed
by audiences of all walks of life. “Part of our mission is to perform in all different types of places,”
Zollar says. “We are happy to share in the Davidson experience tonight.”

The program began with a piece called “A Dance... Batty Moves.” “Batty,” we are told, is Jamaican slang for “butt.”
A single dancer dominated the stage. Her lush, spontaneous movement responded to the beat of the drums as though she
were conversing with them. Clad in earthy, loose-fitting garments, her bare feet reached out as if to touch the sky,
only to fall back to the earth again in a sweeping, caressing flare. As the music gradually climaxed into an
explosion of sound, voices were heard singing in the distance, and her movements became spasmodic, almost tribal.

The next work, “Girlfriends,” was lighter with more of a theatrical base. Four dancers, each dressed in what appeared to
be pajamas, presented a “day in the life” glance at contemporary African-American culture. In all appearances, it was a slumber
party that represented the harmony of sisterhood. What made the piece unique was the fact that there was no music
save the sounds the dancers made with their hands and feet. Slapping, pushing, shoving, stomping, running, and rolling, they created
rhythm within their actions. The intensity of the dancers made it scarcely believable that they were pantomiming, until suddenly, peals
of real laughter...

Our own alienation is a part of the art

Child continued from page 10

...many people dissatisfied. What pushed Tilden over the edge of insanity? Something that happened in New Mexico. That’s all we
know, and if we hope to find out by the end, we’re out of luck. We feel the same confusion
and impotence that Tilden does because by not knowing we experience the same emotions as he. If you left the
theater scratching your head, Tilden probably got to you. And if you hit Backstreet for a smoke and a couple
of shots of whiskey to try and forget the whole thing, you probably identified with Dodge (i.e. dodging the issue).

At first, the audience identifies closely with Shelley (Ashley Wright) and Vince (Derek Judson) who share our confusion, walking into
a house where no rules apply, but by the end, we don't know whom...

Flick picks Oscar

continued from page 10

...Robert Altman, Short Cuts. A worthy field to be sure, but this will go down in history as the Spielster,
so look for him to pick up the trophy in this category. Spielberg recently picked up the top honor from
the Director’s Guild of America which virtually assures him of an Academy Award. Only three times in the past sixty
years has the winner of the DGA award not gone on to win the Oscar as well, and ironically Spielberg
was one of these exceptions when he won the DGA for The Color Purple in 1986 but did not pick
up an Oscar - such a great snub that I won’t even grace my article with the name of the
director and film that won instead. Oscar won’t make the same mistake twice.

Best Picture: The Fugitive, In the Name of the Father, The Piano, The Remains of the Day, and Schindler’s List.
It is a long-standing rule that the director who wins Best Director has his film win Best Picture. Spielberg will
be back at the podium accepting the Best Picture award.

...to trust. True, Shepard’s bizarre style may distract audiences from catching on to what he is trying to accomplish, but
at the same time, the alienation we feel by being struck with a completely different set of conventions is a
part of the art. As every character in the play has a different view of reality, of what really happened
to Tilden and the child, so does every member of the audience. Though we understand the whole picture, we must
remind ourselves that we each create our own realities from our own perspectives. The actors, no doubt, were also unsure
about what really happens in the play, but they succeeded at creating a reality for each individual character and making
the play work as a whole. It is up to us to decide who is right or good.Buried Child may
mystify us, but we cannot give up on meeting Shepard’s challenge.

BLAIR McMILLEN
Juilliard student
Piano Recital
March 17, 8:00 p.m.
Hodson Hall

THE Crossword

ACROSS:
1 Fighting force
5 Practice for a bout
9 Lump of butter
12 Additional
13 Made gentile
15 Crocheted border
16 Ms. Lanchester
18 Concrete
20 Simon and Garfunkel song
25 Edam or Gouda
31 Author's copies: abbr.
34 Blunders
35 Caesar or Waldorf
36 Indian
40 Affirms
41 Shiny fabrics
45 Flyer
49 That man
54 Comic Jay
55 Incase
56 Veil
59 Autos
60 "—It Romantic?"

DOWN:
1 Prayer response
2 Enough (immediately)
3 Function
4 Affirmative
6 Out-of-date
7 Moslem prince
8 Analyze grammatically
10 Thespian part
14 Argued
20 Catholic service
21 —of March
23 Snaky fishes
25 Munch
28 Zeus’ wife
30 Narrow margin
31 Dagwood's fabric ridge
33 Meeting: Order
35 Shirt parts
36 Roman statesman
43 Primp
44 Tubby
45 — the Great
50 — instant
51 More than half
54 Wreath

©1994, Tribune Media Services

ANSWERS through 4 Affirmative

Love Auditorium sounded from their mouths, and women triumphed over this force with the bitter tongue. It took a fifteen-minute
intermission just to come down. “Bitter Tongue” finished the first portion of the program. The entire ensemble danced, sang, and
spoke to the tribal tones of the drum. The piece had a spiritual overtone to it, as though there were
a silent, uncontrollable force guiding the players’ steps. The dancers first responded to this force with great fear, chanting, “The
words you say are bitter. Why are your words so bitter?” The audience responded to each slap, each drumbeat, and
each groan, as though they, too, were trapped within the grasp of a hidden presence. As the dance progressed, the
troupe grew more and more defiant, until at last, angry and allied, the eight dancers triumphed over this force. The
lights fell.

The last piece was a perfect culmination to an evening of incredible entertainment. Entitled, “I Don’t Know, But I Been
Told If You Keep On Dancin’ You’ll Never Grow Old,” the work began in response to a conversation about the
recent decay of dance in the public schools. Zollar is greatly opposed to the decline. In her opinion, dance is
in everything we do. The problem occurs in our failure to recognize dance in its various forms. Dancers can be
cheerleaders and double-dutchers, or rappers and hip-hop artists.

See Urban on page 12

Call Us! 896-8007
Shops on the Green - Cornelius
HOURS: 4pm-12 midnight

NEW ADDITIONS: Twisty Bread, Salad, Cheddar Cheese

Store at 123 Main St. offers free delivery on orders over $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.
©1993 Domino's Pizza Inc.

LARGE CHEESE PIZZA $5.00
MEDIUM 2 TOPPING PIZZA $8.00
No coupon necessary — EXPIRES 3-21-94
Sunday-Thursday only

MONDAY SPECIAL
LARGE PIZZA FOR THE PRICE OF A MEDIUM
EXPIRES 3-21-94

2 MEDIUM PIZZAS FOR THE PRICE OF A LARGE
EXPIRES 3-21-94

NEW DEEP DISH
FREE TWISTY BREAD WITH PURCHASE OF ANY MEDIUM PIZZA WITH 2-TOPPINGS OR ANY LARGE PIZZA
EXPIRES 3-21-94

THURSDAY ONLY
2 LARGE 2 TOPPING PIZZAS $10.00
Additional toppings $1.00 each
EXPIRES 3-21-94

2 LARGE 5 TOPPING PIZZAS $14.00
EXPIRES 3-21-94

2 LITER COKE® EXPIRES 3-21-94
