_ OPINIONS — 8 MONDAY, AUGUST 29, 1994

Truth and the travel
Rob Spach

Whose journey is it?

"Truth," said a traveller, "is a breath, a wind, a shadow, a phantom. Long have I pursued it, but never
have I touched the hem of its garment."
— Stephen Crane

In one way or another we’re all travellers. If you’re not travelling, you’ve probably either lost a wheel or you’re
six feet under. We’re all coming from somewhere and going somewhere. And whether it’s now or a few months from
now or a few years from now, we’re all sure to stop and wonder what’s true about this long, strange
trip we’re on, wonder about our lives, about our world, about the universe, God and other such minor details.

The four years of college are a great opportunity to think about truth, to travel down roads of possibility, to
follow not just the nice, neat pathway that’s been cleared through the woods by those who’ve gone before, but to
wander off the beaten track and crunch through the piled-up leaves and branches and brambles to find your own way,
to make your trek toward truth.

For some people here that happens while talking over a cup of coffee or a beer with friends; for others
it’s through asking questions in a philosophy or religion or literature or science class. For still others it’s through involvement
in one of the many fellowship groups on campus or through En Route, a group that reflects on art, music,
poetry, and spiritual writings through a wide range of traditions including Buddhist, Taoist, Muslim, and Christian.

In this travelling, the exciting thing is to be as interested in questions as in answers and to appreciate how
others who’ve come before have reached out to touch the hem of the garment of truth. Not that we have
to swallow what they said hook, line, and sinker, but that we pay attention to what they’ve seen and said.

There’s an American novelist named Frederick Buechner who called his biography "The Sacred Journey." The truth that he recognized is
that all of our travels are holy, that the one by whom we were all created—God—is also pursuing us. As
we pursue Truth, we may come to realize that Truth is also pursuing us. The spiritual life is one of
the breathtaking aspects of those travels—or at least it can be, if you pay it any mind. It can be
like negotiating your way through underbrush until you come to an opening in the woods at the edge of a
mountain where you get a clear view of things in the distance.

©1994

Don't complain; make your voice heard.

I had the good fortune of visiting West Africa this summer. While there, my group and I visited four universities—one
in Senegal, one in Côte d'Ivoire, and two in Ghana. Every school had its own strengths and weaknesses, yet all
had one thing in common: each university was experiencing a strike of some sort.

The students at the schools had struck for different reasons, most of them having to do with a lack of
adequate facilities and materials. But as poor as these countries are, when the student body strikes, people listen. A compromise
is reached and a slightly improved educational system continues until the next strike.

After observing the attitudes of these students, I began to realize how passive Davidson students are, myself included. Not many
of us realize how much power we would have as a unified force. After all, without students there would be
no Davidson.

No cause is too small to protest. This year the price of parking stickers has been raised from forty dollars
to fifty dollars. I have never understood why at a school with tuition as high as Davidson’s we should have
to pay to park on campus at all. We pay for our rooms; why should we pay to park? My
friends who live off campus don’t have to pay an additional fee to park in their driveways.

Most of the people I’ve spoken with say that they can’t afford a fifty dollar parking sticker, but that is
not the issue. If everyone could afford this price hike it would still be absurd. After hearing about the parking
decals, my mind drifted back to Africa. Although parking stickers may not be a pressing issue to everyone, I believe
it is an important one. If you think the rise in the price of stickers is unfair, make your voice
heard. If you...Have any complaints about the way things work around here? Don’t just bitch about them—do something. You can
make a difference. Write for Opinions. Call Bobby at 2148 or 6152.

Whether we call that one God or some other name or no name at all, it is at work in
our lives in ways big and small, in ways that we can sometimes even recognize if we stop and listen
to our lives, listen to the stories of who we are, how we got that way, and where we might
be headed. But this listening can only happen when we ask questions, when we don’t settle for easy, simplistic answers,
when we peer deep down the pathway of our lives, looking at both the awful times as well as the
beautiful vistas.

The other truth that Buechner recognized—comforting to some, discomforting to others—is that no matter how determined we are to trek
out on our own, to find our own way, we’re never finally alone, because that one who created us never
abandons us. We’re not always protected from death—or from life, for that matter—but neither are we just cast into a
meaningless nothing. Our journeys, our lives, our stories are sacred. So, as we pursue Truth like Stephen Crane’s traveler, we
may come to realize that Truth is also pursuing us. Bon voyage.

Rob Spach is the college chaplain.

Ike Bailey

Do you really have a choice?

Davidson College is known for a lot of different things. It is viewed as one of the best academic schools
in the country. It is known for its “honor code” and “safe” environment. And it is known for its friendly
people. Some would even argue that it is extremely multicultural, but I’m not sure that this is really true.

Sure, a lot of different cultures are represented on this campus, but this in itself does not make each student
culturally conscious. Many different people from many different backgrounds walk on this campus, but there is still one overwhelming group
on this particular campus, that being the ninety percent of students who are white. This affords each person within this
group the “opportunity” to never interact with anyone outside of his culture, outside of his race. It is very possible,
as a white student, to attend Davidson for four years and only glance at or give a quick smile here
and there to students of a different race. And those of you who plan to do this are the ones
who are not being fully educated.

If you allow yourself to put away certain stereotypes, certain fears, certain apprehensions, then I am sure that you will
get a lot more from your stay here at Davidson. To know another’s thoughts, to know another’s feelings, will allow
you to get more in tune with your own thoughts, your own feelings. I'm sure that we all wonder why
an African-American, a Native-American, an Hispanic-American, or any other minority would choose Davidson. Did they come because the white race
is that much wiser? Did they come to get special treatment? Did they get in because of some incredible affirmative
action program? Do they really belong?

For the rest of your time at Davidson, you have the opportunity to stop the speculation and get real answers
to these questions. You have the ability, right now, to become a better politician, a better doctor, a better lawyer.
How can you expect to be great leaders of tomorrow, making decisions for people that you do not know, for
people that you have not allowed yourself to know? Most of you have probably only known a handful of minority
members in your entire lifetime. And most of the minorities on this campus have probably only known whites at a
distance, from what is portrayed in the media.

On this campus, those minorities have already made a huge step to learn more about you. Simply from attending this
college they have to interact with white students on a personal and academic basis; there is just no way to
get around it. Now it is your turn. You have the chance to get to know real people instead of
just the silly stereotypes. You have the chance to make them feel like wanted Davidson students, or some unwanted experiment.

Getting to know different races is not a requirement of Davidson College. Facing the fears caused by stereotypes that you
have built up inside is not required, but maybe it should be. Maybe you should force yourself actually to grow
and learn. With all the racial tensions, the racial ignorance, and the racial insensitivities seen in this country and on
this campus, do you really have a choice? Or maybe you should just sit back and expect everything to just
go away.
