_ THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1994

LEIGH RAWDON - Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Executive Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Managing Editor

The Davidsonian

ASHLYN DANNELLY - News Editor
RUSS TARVER - Assistant News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts & Living Editor
WILL COBB - Sports Editor
BROOKE McRAE - Photography Editor
WILLIAM ROBERT - Copy Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES - Advertising Manager
SCOTT HILE - Operations Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN - Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD - Circulation Manager
ERIK SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

Intellectuals? At college?

They are known to sit in the corners of the library amid stacks and stacks of books. They emerge from
the shadows of Chambers on weekend nights, hair tousled, eyes fixed on the horizon, a loaded backpack weighing heavy on
their shoulders. You might run into them in the Union during a study break, smile at them pleasantly, and say
to yourself something like, “Isn’t that the person who always quoted Kant in my Humes class?” Or, they might pass
under your nose every day, unnoticed, as you wind your way around campus, keeping your busy schedule, hurrying from meeting
to class to appointment. They’re the few, the indignant, the determined. They’re the Davidson intellectuals.

Maybe you have seen one of these people wandering around campus, tripping over things, lost in thought. Maybe you even
see yourself in this description. Either way, you are bound to have noticed how few there seem to be around
here, and how an air of anti-intellectualism seems to permeate Davidson every year.

What is an intellectual? It is someone absorbed by learning for learning’s sake, not someone for whom a college degree
is just a step toward landing a good job. Someone who lives out the true meaning of the college “academic
life,” whose life outside the classroom includes academic interest rather than being a release from study.

By now, you might have noticed the anti-intellectual overtone of the typical Davidson lifestyle. When the Chambers bells toll on
Friday afternoon, the Davidson mind shifts gears, and anything involving books is forgotten until Sunday. Davidson students are as smart
as any in the nation, but for some reason, we tend to separate our studies from the rest of our
lives so much that it becomes an “either-or” situation. Either we’re studying or we’re partying. Either we’ve got a big
test or we can go out.

There are many reasons for this mentality. In its curriculum and physical education requirements, Davidson emphasizes well-roundedness in every way
and attracts students who are so inclined. Also, Davidson does not exactly have a social scene that encourages students to
sit around and discuss ideas. But these aspects of Davidson do not necessarily discourage people from being intellectual. Ironically, what
fosters Davidson’s “either-or” mentality is, more than anything else, its cherished Calvinist work ethic. Because we feel guilty for not
finishing our work, we come to view intellectual pursuits as a sort of punishment, a burden that we must carry
throughout our four years of college. This mindset inevitably takes the pleasure out of the learning process. Often, students enjoy
college in spite of rather than because of their classes. When we are relieved of a part of our burden,
finish a test or a paper, or just finish class for the week, we want to revel and forget our
pain. The result: we live for weekends and holidays, and we can’t wait to put our workload out of our
minds.

Intellectuals at Davidson do not have to be only the stereotypical corduroy-clad, disheveled anti-socialites who lurk in the halls of
Chambers on weekend nights. All becoming an intellectual means is hungering for knowledge and enjoying its pursuit. It means breaking
through the dichotomy of “work hard, play hard” that prevails at Davidson and realizing that we can’t really call ourselves
students if, every afternoon, we leave our academic interests at the classroom or library door. Anti-intellectualism is no less than
a complete rejection of what a college should stand for. If we want to keep competing with our Northern counterparts,
we need to reinvent our work ethic so that it includes not only the drive to get things done, but
also the ability to slow down and enjoy it. The answer may lie in a slightly reduced workload, or a
lessened emphasis on grades, or on finding a better social outlet for students who don’t want only to drink and
listen to loud music. But, without a doubt, the beginning lies in each student’s desire to learn. If only that
were something that could be taught.

[Reals nis BEANS Davidson students sure get a hankering for this time of year. Good for your library fines.]

LETTERS

SGA is political fluff

To the editors,

I was elected to the SGA for the first time this year with a great deal of excitement, feeling I
and the SGA would be able to make real improvements in the quality of life for students here at Davidson.
I was further encouraged after the SGA planning retreat at the beginning of the year, the main result of which
seemed a desire on the part of all Senators to work to increase the influence and effectiveness of the SGA.
Unfortunately, I have become increasingly disenchanted with the SGA. Rather than acting as a catalyst for improvements in the quality
of life for students or attempting to increase the influence of the student body, the SGA sadly continues to be
little more than aPlatform for venting the personal ideological agendas of a few of its members who obviously have little
interest in the real concerns or needs of the student body. We sit through meetings each week in which most
of the time is spent listening to sermons by a few members on their overactive personal political views. “Victories” are
marked by the passage of yet more pointless resolutions of protest on the current hot-button issue of the day, to
be fired off to the Trustees with great glee. This is not progress or influence, and it certainly does not
serve the interests of the students. The SGA lacks influence and credibility principally because of its poor discipline, and until
the real interests of students are furthered rather than the narrow, self-serving interests of some Senate members, it will continue
to have none. Please tell your SGA representative that you want real action and not the political fluff the SGA
has been known for. I know I do!

Sincerely,
Jonathan J. Orr
Independent Senator

Internationals not harassed

To the editors,

I am perturbed by some opinions expressed through these columns recently that give the impression that International Students suffer routine
harassment on this campus. The individual case cited is highly disturbing; and doubtless there are other incidents that give cause
for concern. However, I personally believe that they are isolated examples, and that most Internationals, by the grace of God,
have positive experiences interacting with the general student body. Any implication otherwise is a slap in the face of the
countless Americans who have gone out of their way to make International students welcome here at Davidson College.

Sincerely,
Saad Gul ’97

Let's get this straight.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian
requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all
letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey
Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by
the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

Let me get this straight... two boys put money in a Coke machine for a Coke, but a Diet Coke
falls out. They shake the machine, and five Cokes come out. They take the sodas back to their rooms. Later,
they put another 50 cents in the machine, but no soda falls out. The next day, they figure out who
had paid for the other four soft drinks and repay those people the lost 50 cents. A concerned Davidson student
reports the incident, and they are called before the powers-that-be and are read a statement detailing the events of that
evening. They are then asked if the statement is correct in its account and the boys answer yes, that is
the way it happened. In doing so, they unknowingly plead guilty to an Honor Code violation and were sent before
the judicial committee who assigned sanctions. The punishment they received states that they are banned from all school-sponsored activities, i.e.,
Union events, athletic events, Patterson Court activities, etc., until spring break, must perform ten hours of community service, and are
on probation until the end of the 1994/95 school year.

Hmmm... Don’t get me wrong, I believe the Honor Code is one of the strongest and most unique aspects of
Davidson College, and I fully respect and appreciate it. However, I think this particular case seems to be contrary to
all that the Code claims to enforce and instill in our students. These two boys didn’t have to go door
to door and repay everyone who lost money in the machine, but it was out of the honesty to which
Davidson boasts cultivation that they did so. Are we living in such a false Eden that we believe that if
the boys had lined the Cokes up in front of the machine random people wouldn’t have walked by and taken
them? Get real. I think the fact that they found the people who’d previously lost their money and repaid them
(out of their own pockets, no less) should be considered an act of supreme honesty, not a (harshly) punishable one.
How many times have people walked out of the Union Cafe without paying for something, by accident, and then gone
back and paid for it? Many times, I assume. The precedent set by this case seems counterproductive in that now,
knowing the potential consequences of going back and admitting to inadvertently taking something, should someone make that mistake, they might
be more hesitant in trying to rectify it. I understand the Judicial Committee’s need to impose some sort of punishment
on the boys so as to prevent excuses of future intent (i.e., “I was going to return it” or “I
was going to put it back”) from being validated, but I believe this particular punishment is exceedingly harsh and unjust.

See Case on page 8
