THE DAVIDSONIAN

Spring break, sex & skimpy tops

There is a new resort/summer look emerging on this season’s high fashion runways, evident in the re-emergence of the midriff-bearing shirt. Anne Klein, Todd Oldham, and Karl Lagerfeld are but a few among a slew of famous designers exhibiting such midriff-bearing ensembles in their annual repertoire. Even Davidson is not immune to such lofty trends, as isolated incidents of this look are slowly popping up on campus.

In Fashion magazine attributes this phenomenon to the post-grunge, post-seventies evolution towards fashion that is more punk in nature. The midriff-bearing tops are able to display many a sexy pierced belly button and, with even hipper hip-skimming pants, perhaps a funky tattoo or two. If this prediction of punk comes true (which I promise you it will), we had all better start saving our safety pins. But that’s another article.

Readers, do not be alarmed, however; consumers always receive a more “watered-down” version of the shocking apparel that debuts on fashion runways. For example, even the mainstream mecca mail-order mag J. Crew boasts a few outfits that combine the midriff-bearing top with flowing full-cut pants for an absolutely stunning, airy look. A quick way to try out this look without blowing any cash or getting skimpier than you want to be is to take a flowing shirt of a soft material and unbutton it until you see some semblance of a belly button. Another option is to do the same thing with a slightly oversized or undersized vest.

Since these tops are not only chic but sexy and warm-weather friendly, I took to the halls of Chambers to find out how many women packed this item of apparel in their spring break suitcases. However, save Jane Brock, I found no others brave enough to try such a look on their respective journeys. Disappointed by this lack of midriff enthusiasm, I thought I'd find out if anyone at Davidson took anything sexy at all with them on spring break...

Nathan Seay: My leopard skin tighty-whitey underwear. (But what about your dress, Nathan?)
Ben Hayes: My jammies with footies in them.
Jo Burrows: My boyfriend.
George Ramsey: My long underwear (she’s going to the mountains).
Dr. Webb: Nothing!
Harrison Roberts: Most of my underwear is pretty damn sexy! (We're glad you think so, Harrison.)
Jeffrey Hart: My station wagon.
Bill Richards: My personality.
Amy Palmer: Red lacy underwear.
Mike Kessler: My rubber duckie...ever since my mother gave it to me when I was two, I have always had it with me when I bathed and during any intense experience.
Jenn Williams (aptly summing it all up): Myself.

Finally, any of you lucky Davidsonians who traveled a little further this spring break might have seen what’s hot where we’re not:

Milan and London: 3/4 length brown suede jackets, preferably used.
London: Tie-dyed pants with china flats.
Milan: Vest dresses, worn unbuttoned two-thirds of the way up, over long slim skirts.
Amsterdam: A fun place, but not very hip—the “Chris-Cross” look is (puke) in.
Everywhere: Customized jeans, painted and drawn on, fringed or striped; platform shoes; black leather shoulder bags and backpacks.

Studio Season write-up for one-acts

By Kate Dunlop

For the next four weeks, the theater department will present the 1994 Studio Season, eight evenings of one-act plays. The festival, produced by the studio theater and directing classes, begins this Wednesday, April 6, and continues every Wednesday and Thursday night through April 28.

On April 6 and 7, audiences will witness Distances, an original presentation by Theatre 121/221. Also on April 6 and 7, audiences will see Ray Bradbury’s Kaleidoscope, directed by sophomore Christa Abbott. Kaleidoscope depicts seven astronauts moments before their spaceship explodes.

An absurd reality, both humorous and terrible, sets the scene for both Arthur Kopit’s Chamber Music and Edward Albee’s The Zoo Story, performed together on April 13 and 14. Chamber Music, directed by senior Kate Dunlop, reveals the meeting of a group...of women. Directed by junior Scott Lenhart, The Zoo Story subjects audiences to the often uncomfortable and horrifying repercussions of random occurrences. Strange sexual fixations, characters sleeping with both their lovers and their best friends’ lovers, breathing heavily into phones, and taking quaaludes in alarming quantities, introduces Lanford Wilson’s Ikke Ikke, Nye, Nye, Nye and Kondolen’s Self-Torture and Strenuous Exercise, performed together on April 20 and 21. Directed by junior Jamie McDermott, Ikke, Ikke, Nye, Nye, Nye shares an episode from the lives of a man and a woman unable to deal with one another on a straightforward basis. Self-Torture and Strenuous Exercise, directed by senior Tom Hooper, follows two mixed-up couples as they attempt to figure out their lives, using the most difficult methods possible. On April 27 and 28, the Studio Season draws to a close with James McClure’s Laundry and Bourbon and Pielmeier’s A Ghost Story. Directed by junior Jalyn Parsley, Laundry and Bourbon gives us a summer afternoon in the lives of three hot and harassed women. On the opposite note, A Ghost Story, directed by senior Aimee Cronfel, lays out an unexpected mystery with a spine-tingling finale. All performances begin at 7:30 p.m. in the blackbox theater in Cunningham Fine Arts Building.

ON TUESDAY WEDNESDAY ARTS & LIVING

The Dance Troupe took center stage in Love on Saturday. Copenhagen - Where Europe is a little different! Excellent academic programs taught in English: Humanities, Social Sciences, Marine Environment, International Business. Scholarships available. Photo by Tony Wagner on campus: Wednesday, April 6, 1994 & in the Union lobby 11:30 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. Meet Niels Gottlieb, DiS Academic Director, Denmark’s International Study Program. Affiliated with the University of Copenhagen.

THURSDAY CALENDAR THE SCENE SATURDAY COMING SOON

Medieval Society. Phi Hall, upstairs, 6:30 p.m. Calling all knights. Jawanza Kunjufu. The Conspiracy to Destroy Black Boys. 900 Room, 7:00 p.m. Biology Society Meeting. Big Screen Room, Union, 7:30 p.m. Eumenean Society. 7:30-9 p.m. Chinese Golden Dragon Acrobats. Blumenthal Performing Arts Center, 8 p.m. Call 372-1000. Twenty-One Year Olds Night. Supremes stars R&B singer Miki Howard. Call 522-6500 for tickets. One Act Plays. Black Box Theater, Cunningham. Ray Bradbury’s Kaleidoscope and Distances, an original play, will be presented April 6, 7, and 8 at 7:30 p.m. Ondekoza. Japanese Drum Ensemble. Spirit Square, Charlotte, 7:30 p.m. Call 372-SHOW for tickets. Vesper Service. Big Screen Room, Union, 10:00 p.m. Maya Angelou. Tambourines to Glory. Ovens Auditorium, Charlotte, 8:00 p.m.

Everything. Patterson Court, 10:30 p.m.-1:00 a.m. Campus Wide Event. Chambers Lawn, 8:00 a.m.-11:00 p.m. WDAV Fundraiser. Morrison Room, Union. 8:00 a.m.-11:00 p.m. Double Feature: Apocalypse Now and Hearts of Darkness. 900 Room, 8:00 p.m.

APRIL 5 APRIL 6 APRIL 7 APRIL 9

Coffeehouse. 8:30-11 a.m. Crop Lunch. 900 Room, 11:30 a.m.-1:00 p.m. Freshman Writing Awards Ceremony. 900 Room, 7:30 p.m. Brooks and Dunn with Aaron Tippin and Faith Hill. Tickets go on sale today for their May 20 show at Blockbuster Pavilion. Call 522-6500. Blood Drive. Chambers Gallery, Monday, 11:30 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Dubravka Tomsic, pianist. Hodson Hall, Cunningham, 8:00 p.m.

SUNDAY APRIL 10

Double Feature: Apocalypse Now and Hearts of Darkness. 900 Room, 4:00 p.m. The Most Democratic Sport. Museum of the New South. An exhibition on the history of basketball in the area. A must-see for diehard fans. Call 333-1887 for info. Billy Joel. Dean Smith Center, Chapel Hill. April 12, 8:00 p.m.