ARTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1994

10

Flip Side

Junkies: a bit of rock, pop, folk...

By Tom Bavis

No Cowboy Junkies album has captured as much attention as The Trinity Session, their major label debut from 1988. That album appeared amidst a late-1980s burst of brilliant folk-rockers like the Indigo Girls, Suzanne Vega, and Tracy Chapman. Like those acts, the Canadian Cowboy Junkies—consisting of siblings Michael, Peter, and Margo Timmins, and Alan Anton—have persisted in making great music. Every one of the albums since The Trinity Session has satisfied but failed to capture the spotlight. The third of these unnoticed lessons in persistence, and their fifth album overall, is entitled Pale Sun Crescent Moon.

The group, led by guitarist, producer, and main songwriter Michael Timmins, continues to drift away from The Trinity Session’s hushed, ethereal country in favor of grinding blues grooves. As always, though, their sonic melting pot overflows with a bit of everything: country, rock, blues, pop, and folk. The result defies easy classification.

“Crescent Moon” is an unlikely introduction, its groove crawling along at a numbing pace. The guitars that open the song are simultaneously distorted and muted, gritty yet restrained. They soon fade into the back as Margo Timmins’ angelic voice interprets the words of her songwriting brother: “I know I’m not part of the life you had planned / But I think once your body feels my hand / Your mind will change and your heart will lose its pain.”

“Ring on the Sill,” the album’s third track, proves that the band still soars over others at making the touching and simple ballad. Over a gentle, rolling rhythm with bass, drums, guitar and organ floats Margo Timmins’ voice. Pondering a dedicated but strained marriage, she sings, “They’re thinking of the long road ahead / And the strength they will need just to get to the end.”

Margo’s voice has always been shaky and expectant in a similar style to 10,000 Maniacs’ Natalie Merchant. But unlike Natalie, Margo milks an amazing number of nuances out of a voice that develops continuously. Her throat is the perfect instrument to take the lead over her brother Michael’s songs.

As a songwriter and producer, Michael has also continued to grow. The lyrics have achieved an almost Faulkneresque sophistication. The sound of Pale Sun Crescent Moon is addictively consistent. As a cohesive and beautiful whole, the album gives me hope for the Cowboy Junkies; not hope that they will finally capture the fame they deserve, but that they will keep scooping great songs out of their musical melting pot...

Artist Collie explores mental aftermath of Vietnam

By Jonathan Brooks

On Tuesday evening, Kate Collie enlightened Davidson students and staff in her talk “Vietnam: Notes and Echoes,” as she explored the nightmarish effects of American veterans’ experiences in Vietnam. Collie, whose paintings are currently on display in the Visual Arts Center, provided insight into her series entitled Soldier’s Heart and related her experiences with the subject of that show, Steve Piscitelli.

Soldier’s Heart relates the experiences of veteran Steve Piscitelli from his enlistment during the Vietnam conflict to his recovery twenty years after the war. The composition of eight panels of text and seven panels of paintings deals with such psychological problems as sleeplessness, fits of rage, depression, and flashbacks which have destroyed Piscitelli’s life.

The viewer inevitably asks why Kate Collie has chosen to paint passionately about Vietnam and post-traumatic stress disorder when she herself was not active in the conflict. According to Collie, she was inspired by a personal need to understand the long-lasting effects of war which have caused many veterans to commit suicide. In fact, her research has found that of the men who saw combat in Vietnam, the number of veterans who have committed suicide is greater than the number of soldiers who died in warfare. Collie expressed that she “became interested in the psychological after-effects of warfare on warriors by getting to know some men who fought in Vietnam” and began her paintings long before the release of Platoon and Full Metal Jacket, two films which signified the beginning of a trend in the arts to convey the experiences of veterans. Additionally, Collie began her exploration before the government had officially recognized post-traumatic stress disorder and other psychological after-effects.

A Charlotte resident, Collie first had Soldier’s Heart displayed at a Spirit Square show. Collie related a story to the audience concerning a Vietnam veteran who observed her work. The man approached her with tear-filled eyes and simply said, “Thank you for trying to understand.” Collie expressed that she has felt rewarded not only by the responses of veterans but also by the curiosity, awareness, and enthusiasm that she has evoked in non-veterans. Dr. Herb Jackson commented that Collie’s paintings “take the universal and...

See War on page 11Exhibit: a medium for art and a tool for communication
By Josh Larned

Ernst August Quensen without a doubt conceived the idea for the Big Print—a stunning exhibition now on display in the William Van Every Gallery of the Visual Arts Center—from a view that regards art as a medium for thought as well as a tool for mass communication in the modern age. According to critic Leonard Lehrer, “Quensen believes there is no future without art, that art is not a luxury, but a necessity, that art is an integral part vital to our existence.” With his experience in the tradition of lithography and his knack for visual arts production, Quensen set out to employ a vast array of artists into his workshop in Lamspringe, Germany. The result is the exhibit you now see at the VAC. “Big” is truly the operative word here, as most of the works reach a maximum size of 100 x 140 cm. There appears to be no common message uniting the lithographs themselves, save their inescapable ability both to startle and titillate the viewer on a grandiose scale.

Davidson Professor Shaw Smith in his essay entitled “Going Big: Scale as Hype, Heroicism, and Historicism,” asserts that Quensen’s vision is the result of a continuing evolution in print-making juxtaposed with the “Heroic Tradition.” Moreover, not only does The Big Print draw upon modernist trends developed by Jasper Johns, Helen Frankenthaler, Vito Acconci, and even former Davidson visiting professor Andy Owen, but it also has roots dating back to past masters such as Jacopo de’ Barbari, Albrecht Dürer, and Titian. In Smith’s opinion, these influences collide in this display to forge bolder artistic styles: “The big picture of this exhibition reminds us that if we look behind the dazzling curtains of the eighties, the ruins of modernism continue to be dismantled and replaced, stone by gigantic stone.”

Standouts in this exhibit include W.P. Eberhard Eggers’s “Divina Proportione” (1989)—a profile composed of facial traits taken from an array of ethnic groups, Frank Schult’s “Der Sündenfall” (loosely translated “The Fall of Man”) (1990)—a nightmarish rendition of Eve’s confrontation with Satan in the Garden of Eden, and Gerd Winner’s “Times Square II”—a layering effect of different colors, textures, and shapes that aptly portrays the neon urban euphoria that is constant in a post-modern metropolis. The Big Print truly is an overwhelming feast for the senses. It will remain on display until February 28.

Attenborough's Shadowlands delights and instructs
By Matt Smith

Potential viewers should be warned: be prepared to watch a great deal of Shadowlands with misty eyes. Again, Richard Attenborough has directed a beautiful, emotional, and at times heart-rending film that must be ranked among the most inspired of the past year. Even among such powerhouse productions as The Piano, Philadelphia, and Schindler’s List, Shadowlands undoubtedly holds its own.

The plot of this film, which tells the true story of author and Oxford professor C. S. Lewis’ marriage to American poet Joy Grisham, holds no surprises for the viewer. In fact, it’s fairly simple: Lewis (played by Anthony Hopkins) befriends Grisham (Deborah Winger) as she runs with her son from an abusive and alcoholic husband; Lewis marries Grisham so she may legally remain in England; Grisham is diagnosed with cancer; Lewis falls in love with Grisham. The true power of the film, its primary concern, is the transformation Lewis undergoes as his secure, self-assured world suddenly is shaken down to its foundations by these occurrences.

The beginning of the film shows Lewis instructing students in literature, explaining his philosophy on suffering, and rationalizing his Christian beliefs. His world is structured, logical, and very safe, very risk-free. He seems to know all the answers, and he hides himself behind his knowledge. Even in the initial stages of his relationship with Grisham, he manages to remain at arm’s length from her, never taking the chance to express the feelings for her which are growing within him. Sadly enough, it takes the prospect of her imminent death to scare him out of his shell. That is the real action of Shadowlands.

Hopkins gives his finest performance to date as he sheds his cold and calculating Hannibal Lecter mask and learns to allow himself to love. He uses everything from a pleasingly original script to subtle facial expression and bodily movement to convey the dynamics of a man coming to terms with himself, his life, and the necessity for his own self-transformation. When he clenches his jaw and fist, you feel his frustration; when he looks about nervously, you feel his discomfort; when he weeps, so do you. Credit must be given to the rest of the cast as well.