8 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1994

Perhaps she had always known she was a lesbian. Perhaps she fabricated stories of love with all the handsome guys
she dated and laughed inside herself at all of us who foolishly believed her. Or maybe she cried inside each
time she betrayed herself. The crying seems more likely. If so, we betrayed her by making her believe we wouldn’t
accept the truth.

I found out a year after she moved away. She came back to visit with her long, beautiful brown hair
cropped into a short page boy. I was startled by her hair, but even more startled when I learned that
she was visiting to let us know she was a lesbian. No one was angry or disgusted, or perhaps we
didn’t dare be angry or disgusted. Instead, we all sat in silence, disturbed that we had been so blind to
whom she really was and perhaps guilty that we had not helped her to find herself. Words were carefully chosen
when we spoke of it after she returned to her new home. Some of us were bothered, but none of
us dared speak it.

No! I don’t like homosexuals! What they do is immoral and unnatural!
Rosie Molinary

Ignorance can be betrayal. We went along our routines, stopping only to cringe when we overheard gay jokes or AIDS
reports. There was a desire within all of us to be fair and accepting. Maybe we wouldn’t have reacted this
way to another homosexual, but it hit home now, and it was our time to learn. Our world had a
new perspective—one that made us feel odd and uncomfortable at times, but one that had to be dealt with.

The greatest barrier came this past New Year’s Eve. As I sat with old friends, we recalled the days of
Deborah’s coming out. She was in San Francisco with her lover, and perhaps that is why someone finally spoke these
words. My best friend, Erica, looked at me, and I could tell she was dying to say what was on
her mind.

“I don’t know how you can’t be bothered by all the overnights. I don’t think they should be given equal
rights that all others were. It’s fine if she’s gay. But don’t you feel betrayed?”

I shook my head no. We had come to the unspoken consensus that the only way to deal with the
news was to accept it. It would be too difficult for Deborah if we second-guessed her; she didn’t deserve a
trial.

Deborah’s best friend stared at Erica, and I could tell that one of the things we had never dared to
whisper was about to be vocalized. I sat, wishing I could escape this politically correct facade that masked our internal
questions. I couldn’t help but feel we had to accept it for what it was. She said, “I guess you
don’t want to know you were the one who made Deborah realize she was a lesbian. She had such strong
feelings for you, romantic feelings. She had to accept it. You changed her life.”

Erica stared straight ahead and the room fell silent. I had to speak. “You should be flattered. She didn’t expect
to date you; she found you attractive and thought you were fun to be around. You changed her life. If
you hadn’t, she’d still be struggling. It’s a compliment.”

I left the room in frustration. Erica’s struggle came from our ignorance of the issue. We had chosen to ignore
everything except that our friend was a lesbian. Perhaps we are the reason Deborah is now in San Francisco. Did
we make her feel she had to run and hide? If so, as her childhood friends, we tried too hard
to be tolerant and we failed by alienating her. Now, we can only second guess our actions as we painfully
realize the correct way to deal with homosexuality is to understand and accept it, rather than tolerate it as part
of the vastness of sexuality. And the betrayal of a friend should never come solely from ignorance.

Susan Beale

"Bathing suit paranoia syndrome" strikes Davidson.

Ah, yes, spring in Davidson is returning. I know this not only because the birds are chirping, the trees are
budding, and the flowers are blooming, but mostly because of the talk I’ve been hearing on campus. Do the two
words “spring break” sound familiar? How do you feel when you hear those words—excited with the anticipation of a great
time away from Davidson, or perhaps fear of publicly displaying those few extra pounds you brought back with you from
the Christmas holidays?

Personally, I am not much of a calendar or weekly planner fanatic and, thus, had not been fully aware of
how few weeks we have until spring vacation. I became informed about the return of spring simply by opening my
ears. I first heard comments last week in aerobics when several freshman girls were moaning about their newly acquired “beer
bellies.” They all made vows to work extra hard at toning up their bodies in the next few weeks. I
have decided to label this anguish “Bathing Suit Paranoia Syndrome” (or BSPS).

Though BSPS normally affects only young women, I was surprised to learn that some young men on campus are also
suffering from this contagious disease. In fact, several senior guys were consoling each other late one night after a court
party about why they should go to bed rather than fulfill their cravings for late-night munchies at the Union Outpost.
They, too, expressed their concern for trimming up those few inches that were hanging over their belts. In fact, one
of those guys has even been spotted running daily. I didn’t think he even knew where the track was!

If you haven’t caught BSPS, you probably will as soon as you flip your calendar from February to March and
see the big words looming at the end of the month. As a caring individual who wants to serve the
Davidson community, I thought I would pass on a few pieces of advice on how to find relief from this
disease—go someplace cold where you don’t have to wear a bathing suit.

If you have already made reservations down south and feel BSPS slowly approaching, then listen up. (Some of this advice
is serious and some is not... you can take what you want and discard the rest.)

(1) Skip that tenth beer when you are partying. Come on, you don’t really need it.
(2) If you can’t possibly follow step number one and do choose to down that 10th beer, dance extra hard
whiledrinking it with the intention of burning it off. Just think, with the right attitude, court parties have the potential
to be as strenuous as aerobics or jogging.

(3) Skip the late-night Domino’s delivery or journey to the Union Outpost. You can save your money to blow on
spring break!

(4) Hey lazy bums, don’t drive to class. The walk isn’t that far. Though I don’t have any data to
back this up, I would imagine on average, you can burn 20 calories every time you walk to Chambers. If
you did this twice a day, in four weeks you could burn 1000 calories! Not bad for such a short
walk, huh?

(5) Skip the elevator at Chambers. Unless you have a handicap or are on crutches, I see no reason why
anyone has to take an elevator in a three-story building.

I hope that my few tidbits of advice will help decrease the negative symptoms of BSPS. I thought about starting
a counseling hotline to aid those in distress, but I’m hoping that this article will suffice. I’ve been at Davidson
long enough to know that the syndrome will become more obvious in the next few weeks. Though the aerobics classes
at present have plenty of space, a week before spring break, we will all be elbow to elbow and drenched
in sweat because of the extra bodies crammed in one room. The funny part of it all is that the
week after spring break, most people will hide themselves under their clothes again and go back to their old habits
of snacking and skipping daily exercise. If you have already been affected by BSPS, my only consolation for you is
that all symptoms will be alleviated in less than one month.

Rob King

Reflections on pride and humility

I love myself. I am the most unique person in the world. No one views life in the same way
I do. No one has experienced the same combination of sorrow and joy which I have. Admit it; we have
all said something like this to ourselves at some point in our lives. We have either said it consciously or
subconsciously. Either we take pride in our accomplishments or we take pride in the uniqueness of our particular human tragedy.
Usually, we do a little of both.

So what is pride? Pride is the fact that, as I write this article, I am yearning for people to
like it and compliment me on it. Pride is the insistence on having my own way and that my particular
subjective viewpoint is not only unique but the correct view. If I thought someone else’s viewpoint were correct, then I
would obviously adopt their view or at least integrate it somehow with my previously determined “correct” view of life. Does
this sound familiar? It should, because we are all guilty of prideful claims such as these.

So what can we say about this pride which seems to be so intrinsic to the human condition? When I
started talking about this subject with one of my friends, she looked at me quizzically and said, “Rob, you really
need to relax and get out a little more!” After a beer, I started thinking about pride again. First of
all, is pride necessarily a bad thing? C.S. Lewis claims that pride is the greatest sin because it is insidious
and makes us turn away from God and rely only on ourselves. We take the place of God. Pride can
thus turn the holiest of saints into the vilest of sinners with the blink of an eye. Oh, how we
loathe the people who are cocky or self-righteous or, worse yet, the people whose views are diametrically opposed to our
own.

Pride, however, is also used in conjunction with positive terms like dignity and self-respect, as the title of the U2
song written about Martin Luther King implies. This type of pride can’t be the same pride which C.S. Lewis condemns.
To help clear up this mess, please allow me to ramble on a little further.

I have noticed that whenever I intentionally try to be humble by downplaying or underestimating my own abilities, I end
up patting myself on the back and saying, “Good job, Rob! You are soooo humble!” Such humility is much worse
than the most blatant outward shows of pride. No, to be truly humble is not to draw attention to one’s
own “humility.” To be truly humble is to openly and accurately acknowledge one's weaknesses and strengths. We must try to
improve these weaknesses through honest introspection, prayer, and a deliberate effort on our part. Our strengths should be used boldly,
and given their due credit, but we should not dwell on them for too long. Only through such a balance
can we truly and humbly stand with pride.

Rob Spach is the Chaplain of Davidson College.

Get-go continued from page 7

decreases diversity. On the one hand are fine educational institutions in which the life of the spirit—as expressed in any
traditional, religious way—is marginalized. On the other hand are institutions where a particular brand of Christianity has become a straightjacket
that cripples the search for truth and the development of character. I wonder to myself: could Davidson promote genuine diversity
in higher education by seeking to be a place where one can be a genuine believer or searcher (or better
yet, both) and also be a genuine intellectual, where one can have the opportunity to develop one’s whole self with
integrity (i.e., in an integrated way)? I think that’s a genuine possibility if we continue to understand our identity within
a Christian framework, which may mean requiring that trustees be members of a Christian church. To require that trustees be
Christians is symbolically to affirm that we value the origin of the spiritual values and that we intend to keep
them as an integral part of the life of this institution for generations to come, for the sake of all,
Christians and non-Christians alike. I have a feeling that that kind of symbolism is very important. Therefore, in this case,
it might seem the best thing to do, both to others and to ourselves, to remain intentionally influenced by a
tradition which undergirds spiritual values, which demands justice, compassion, and humility. The downside, of course, is that those qualified non-Christians
mentioned above are excluded from the board of trustees. Is that negative consequence worth accepting in order to hold on
to the positive possibilities of holding fast to the guidance that comes from the Christian tradition? That’s at least part
of the decision before the trustees as they consider this policy.
