_SPORTS 10. TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994_

Men's soccer streaks to 2-0, faces UNCC Thursday

By Will Cobb

The first challenge for the 1994 men’s soccer team was answered when the Wildcats edged South Alabama 1-0 last Saturday.
Sophomore Robert Clarke broke a scoreless game in the second half when he took a pass from junior Ryan Northington
and blasted the ball past a helpless keeper. Saturday’s victory gives the Wildcats their first season opening victory in several
years.

“I got a good hit, and luckily, the shot went in. The win was big, and hopefully it will propel
us into the rest of the season,” said Clarke.

South Alabama entered the contest ranked #10 in the southern region by Soccer America, making the victory that much sweeter.
Alex Deegan played in goal for the first time since injuring his knee last September and came up big. After
getting himself into trouble when he tackled a player on a fast break, Deegan turned around and made an outstanding
save, securing the shutout.

The Wildcats went without the luxury of a scrimmage or exhibition, and as a result started a little slow. Facing
an opponent other than themselves forced the Wildcats to make some adjustments as the game progressed.

“We had a hard time figuring out our strengths and weaknesses, but in the second half we took it to
them. South Alabama was a quality opponent with a lot of returning starters. That was a tough game to win,”
said senior Tommy Suter.

Starting the season with a strong victory gives the young team needed confidence. Sophomore Isaac Stewart anchors the defense at
sweeper and made an outstanding debut at the varsity level, winning almost every ball in the air. The season opener
also featured the return of John Sampers to the midfield. His confidence and leadership abilities have made an immediate impact
on individual and team performances.

A shutout was a rarity last season, but a deep and healthy defense looks to repeat Saturday’s result more often
this season. Other strong individual efforts came from reserves John Eckman and Phil Julyan. The Wildcats can go 18 to
19 players deep this season, an advantage and luxury coach Charlie Slagle has not enjoyed very often since arriving at
Davidson. Strong team efforts will be seen throughout the season. With many starting positions still unresolved, Slagle...

---

Photo by Casey Rogers

Volleyball drops 4 matches in home tourney

By Traci Cliett

The women’s volleyball team had a rough weekend, losing three matches as host of the two-day Comfort Inn Volleyball Invitational.
Friday night at Baker Sports Complex, the Wildcats lost to eventual champion Georgia Tech. Davidson also had a rough Saturday,
falling to Tennessee Tech in the morning, before an afternoon defeat to William and Mary and another defeat to Georgia
Tech.

The Wildcats are a young team, as Lorie Logan is the only senior on a squad with eight freshmen, two
sophomores, and one junior. Despite that, coach Carolyn Blake is confident that the team is good enough to play this
season’s tough schedule.

“We had no idea what to expect this weekend. But we got some exposure to some tough competition, and we
know that our freshmen will not play like freshmen by the end of September,” said Blake.

Logan said “the team improved with each match” this weekend. She also said that with some effort, the team will
have a good season, and each team member will get plenty of playing time. Blake said despite the scores, she
was pleased to see her team display “a new level of skill across the board.”

---

Alumni athletes play in the minor leagues.

By Matt Pitzer

Richard Howell and Drew Fassett, both four-year football starters at Davidson, have taken their act to the minor league Charlotte
Blast. Howell is the Blast’s starting cornerback who had a 70-yard interception return for a touchdown called back because of
a penalty in the Blast’s second game, a 13-0 win Saturday against the Richmond Ravens. Howell also intercepted a pass
in the team’s opener, a 52-6 win at home against the Triangle Cardinals August 20. Fassett is the punter for
the squad, which is comprised mostly of ex-small college players and is a part of the Mason-Dixon Football League.

Howell, who was the Wildcats’ starting quarterback for four years, and Fassett both graduated this spring. The Blast is run
by Dick Landis, father of Davidson coach Tim Landis. Howell is also an assistant coach for backs with Davidson.

---

Calendar

HOME GAMES

Men’s soccer
Thursday - at UNCC, 7 p.m.
Sunday - The Citadel, 2 p.m.

Women’s soccer
Wednesday - UNCC, 4 p.m.

Field Hockey
Saturday - Georgetown, 2 p.m.
Sunday - Davis & Elkins, 12:30

Volleyball
Sunday - Marshall, 4 p.m.will continue to shuffle starting lineups. Davidson finished the tournament undefeated with a 2-0 victory over
Manhattan behind goals from Robert Clarke and John Sampers. Alex Deegan recorded a second shutout to move the Wildcats to
2-0 on the season. Following Monday's game, the Wildcats look to face county rival UNC-Charlotte this Thursday. Though Davidson’s first
home game won’t be until this Sunday, the game is close enough. In the last two meetings, the Wildcats have
taken the upper hand, advancing on penalty kicks in the 1992 playoffs and edging the 49ers last fall behind Jon
Olin’s first collegiate goal.

“I’m really pleased with the way we’re playing. We’re confident and much more disciplined, and we’re going to keep on
winning. Our strengths match against their weaknesses really well against UNCC, but there's no reason to get confident,” said Suter.
The players and coaches would like to thank all of the loyal fans who traveled to Winston-Salem last weekend and
hope to see more at Thursday night's game.

Cat Nips

Sports fans count on the NFL
By Matt Pitzer

The hot summer months have passed us. Soon, the leaves on trees will begin changing colors and falling delicately to
the ground. Alright, enough clichés. We all know it's time for football to crank up and rule the sporting world
until January. Sure, that stuff about cooler weather is nice, but it’s really just secondary in importance to the sport.
Football should dominate just about everything when it comes to sports for the next few months. After all, there isn’t
a pennant race or World Series to follow. So let’s get right down to the dirty stuff. Everybody wants predictions,
so we’ll give them to you. We’ll just talk about the NFL, leaving the college game for another time and
another place.

There really aren’t any surprises here. The NFC championship will determine the Super Bowl champion once again, and that winner
will likely be either San Francisco or Dallas. The 49ers look to be tough based on several off-season pick-ups, basically
retooling the defense and providing some extra firepower to Steve Young, one of the league’s best quarterbacks. Perhaps the best
under center in the NFL, however, is the Cowboys’ Troy Aikman. But they also have some problems, which may undermine
their potential to be the next dynasty in the league. Owner Jerry Jones is at the head of that list,
which also includes losing some underrated but key players. It was Jones, however, who drove off Jimmy Johnson, who was
quickly becoming one of the NFL’s best coaches, with his big, fat ego and who later brought on board old
friend and college coach Barry Switzer.

At Oklahoma, you’ll remember, all Switzer did was win. But he couldn’t keep control of his program, leading to his
oust. Already, there have been some derogatory comments from players about Jones and Switzer, most notably from star receiver Michael
Irvin. Naturally, Switzer must win a lot to quiet comparisons to Johnson. But there were some indications of trouble ahead
Sunday against Pittsburgh. You might have noticed that the Cowboys’ offense was a little more conservative, with less of the
high-powered passing to Irvin and Alvin Harper. The offense also stuttered close to the goal line several times. The bet
here is that the 49ers will hold off the Cowboys, take the Super Bowl, and save coach George Seifert, who
is outstanding.

There might be some other contenders, but none too serious. Minnesota will improve but doesn’t realistically have a chance. The
second tier will include teams like New Orleans, Green Bay, and—just maybe—Arizona. Over in the basically pathetic AFC, Buffalo seems
to be the class again, although they will continue to make baseball’s Braves look like a good, clutch playoff team.
The Bills have slowly overhauled their team over the past couple of years, but they have kept the key components,
such as Jim Kelly, Thurman Thomas, and Bruce Smith. Look for them to be playing in Miami come late January.
Other tough teams will be the consistently just-not-quite-good-enough Kansas City Chiefs, the much improved L.A. Raiders, and perhaps Miami. The
Steelers could surprise a few people, especially if their defense comes into its own and performs like it is capable.

Who’s going to be at the bottom of the heap? Tampa Bay, of course. The Redskins, Rams, and Cincinnati will
give them company. This season should be great with the several rule changes, most notably the two-point conversion. But the
results will be the same old, same old: San Francisco will retake the crown after a few years away, and
the NFC will dominate the AFC for the 769th straight year.
