2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Residence lottery in final stages

By Jay Jennings

The final phase of the lottery process will be completed this week, putting an end to this year’s housing process, which has been different and, at times, confusing due to the new apartment building. The new apartment complex will add 90 beds to the campus. However, because of renovations in Belk, the elimination of rooms in PAX, and the option of hall counselors to have singles next year, the net increase in beds on campus will only be about 45.

Richard Terry, Residence Life Director, is pleased with how the process has gone this year because he feels that all seniors have gotten what they wanted, whether it be an apartment, a single, or off-campus housing. Two groups of rising seniors did not get a five-person apartment, but they had the option of reforming their group into a four-person group if they still wanted to get one. Terry admits that this current system does not prevent the trauma of deciding between a five- or a four-person apartment, but he feels it is the best way to deal with the process.

The addition of 45 extra rooms has meant that fewer people have been granted off-campus housing. Because the Residence Life Office bases its budget on full occupancy revenue, it needs to fill up all of the rooms on campus in the fall semester so that it does not have to take money from other areas to make up for the lost revenue. Even though RLO will now grant only 80 to 90 people permission to live off campus, instead of the usual 120, the wait-list for off-campus housing is actually less than in past years at this time. The decreased demand for off-campus housing can be attributed to the approximately 30 rising juniors who have been fortunate enough to get apartments. Some of those groups not so fortunate failed to get apartments or off-campus housing and will have to live in the dorms again next year. Kakki McEntire, one of the disgruntled rising juniors, is “frustrated about being forced to live in the dorms.” Richard Terry knows that some people will not be happy with their situation, but he and the RLO have tried to please as many people as possible.

RLO is always involved with a lot of guesswork at this time of year because it never knows exactly how many freshmen will be entering in the fall. After RLO underestimated the number of freshmen last year, which resulted in triples for some of them, Terry is trying to be “more cautious than usual.” More rooms will be put aside in case more freshmen come than expected. The freshmen who lived in triples this year received junior numbers for the lottery. This could put these rising sophomores ahead of some juniors.

Selection of the class of 1998 is finished

By Wendy Lee

“The class of 1998 is a very talented group in academic, co-curricular, and extracurricular areas,” said Eleanor Payne, Associate Dean of Admission. The admissions staff’s long process of selecting students for next fall’s freshman class is now complete. Out of 2,719 applications, 997 students were accepted. Of those, 484 are male and 503 female. More students were admitted this year than last year, but they represent a smaller percentage of the applicant pool.

Payne said that from those students accepted, the admissions staff is looking for a class of 430 to 440 students with about a 50-50 male to female ratio. “Last year’s freshman class was 452 and this year we are aiming for a smaller number,” Payne said. Academically, the class is as strong as in years past; the average SAT score of those accepted is 1290. Southern states were strongly represented in the field of students accepted: 161 from North Carolina, 79 from Georgia, 65 from Florida, 50 from South Carolina, and 50 from Virginia. Thirty-three students are either foreign citizens or Americans living abroad. Students accepted have until May 1 to decide whether to commit to Davidson. Payne said the admission staff hopes tohave 450 committed students as of the May 1 deadline. On Saturday, April 9, “Decision Davidson” will be held for all accepted students and their parents. The program is designed to give them a closer look at Davidson through student life and academic panels.

By Jeff Fuller

“I think the test is a crock,” said Appalachian State University student Melani Harris in a recent article in the Charlotte Observer regarding the use of the Myers-Briggs Personality Type Indicator in pairing roommates. “There’s a lot more to personality than what you fill in on those little circles.”

Based on Jungian psychology and extensive research, the Myers-Briggs Personality Type Indicator is a 95-question test which measures personal preferences in four areas: extroversion or introversion, sensing or intuition, thinking or feeling, judgment or perception.

Both Ohio State University and the University of Maine have discontinued their use of the MBTI. UNC Charlotte, which used a similar test, also stopped when studies revealed its inconsequence. Davidson’s Residence Life Office still uses the MBTI as a tool to pair up roommates, but is it really a “crock” as Harris suggests?

Some Davidson students seem to agree with Harris on the ineffectiveness of the MBTI. When asked about his roommate match, freshman Josh Peklo replied, “I don’t think we have anything in common.” In reference to the test he said, “Although it’s considered the most accurate, it takes more than just a test to match personalities.”

However, not all students believe the test is a complete failure. Alan Hutson, another freshman, thinks that residence life did a good job matching him up with his roommate Steve Duncan. “Steve and I are complete opposites but we get along great,” said Hutson. Duncan pointed out, though, that some similarities were missed by the test questions. “[We] both applied for people that go to bed early, but we both never go to bed.”

In defense of MBTI use, Director of Residence Life Richard Terry said, “I look at the Myers-Briggs as a helpful instrument for describing the way people interact.” According to Terry, the test is used mainly to narrow down pools of students for roommate pairing. And while the office often tries to match extroverts with extroverts, introverts with introverts, Terry stresses that the results of the test are not the only deciding factor in roommate pairing. “We don’t put blinders on,” he said.

Other factors are also important. For example, athletes are usually matched with non-athletes, and students from the same state are not often put together. The most important piece of information is the “yellow card,” which asks questions about smoking, work habits, neatness, preferences, etc. Terry said the yellow cards could also predict the personality type of the student. “The evidence often agrees with the Myers-Briggs,” he said. The admissions applications are also used in combination with the tests and cards to match up roommates. Terry said that roommates are often matched up because of common ground, but the office tries to make sure they have some differences as well in order to create a learning experience for both students.

While the Myers-Briggs may not hold all the secrets to good roommate chemistry, roommate matches at Davidson seem to work out. As a result, one third of sophomores keep their freshman roommates. Terry also noted that Davidson has a lot fewer roommate complaints and changes than other colleges and universities. But Terry does not see the Myers-Briggs as the most important tool for roommate pairing. “It’s not magical,” he said.

If You Missed the Cooking at BACON AND EGGS Come See the Old Gang at...

Chat & Chew
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, NC
664-4665
NOW OPEN 24 HRS. A DAY
WELCOME DAVIDSON COLLEGE!