THE DAVIDSONIAN

Graduate school entrance exams: Do prep courses help your scores?
By Mary Clare Jalonick

Worried about the impact of bad scores upon wary admissions officers, students often consider taking preparatory courses for graduate entrance exams. With advertisements flooding the halls of Chambers and controversy surrounding major test preparation companies, the decision is a difficult one. Classes at the local Princeton Review and Kaplan Centers have been popular in the past, but recent questions concerning the validity of score improvement claims have recently thrown doubt on the effectiveness of these two respected and well-known preparation schools.

The Tests
Entrance exams frequently taken by Davidson students include the MCAT (Medical College Admission Test), LSAT (Law School Admission Test), GMAT (Graduate Management Admission Test), and the GRE (Graduate Record Exam). The MCAT and the LSAT are usually seen as the more competitive of the four, since medical and law schools put more emphasis on test scores.

The Preparatory Courses
Preparatory courses for all entrance exams are offered by testing companies such as Kaplan and Princeton Review. When students opt to take a preparatory course, they face the difficult task of weighing its high cost with its potential benefits. Testing companies offer many advantages such as local classes and promising improvements for participants. To many students, the possibility of improving chances of acceptance at a good graduate school is worth the high price for such classes, around $700 at Princeton Review and Kaplan.

NEWS
Is there a difference between the two?
Junior Tommy Suter is planning to take the LSAT this summer. Suter researched the two programs and found that they both had a lot to offer for equivalent prices. According to Suter, Princeton Review provides more deals and locations closer to Davidson, but he eventually decided on a Kaplan course in his hometown of Tallahassee. Senior Rice Lacy took the Princeton Review course last summer. Though his scores did not improve much, Lacy recommended the course, saying, “The class was very well structured, and they work with you a lot.” The Kaplan course also receives praise. Suneya Gupta, a senior who recently took the MCAT, says, “They do a fantastic job of synthesizing the material and get-

See Prep on page 4

FLAG promotes open-mindedness
FLAG continued from page 1

Jones described the experience as “an incredibly positive thing.” Initially, she was hesitant to speak. “[I] had a faculty member encourage me not to speak at the forum because they feared possible negative repercussions for me,” she said. Despite the initial hesitation, the charter was granted after a vote. 28 SGA officers voted for passing the charter, one voted “no,” and there were three abstentions. Since the introduction of FLAG, Jones says, “FLAG has single-handedly been responsible for programming gay, lesbian, and bisexual events on campus.”

The nondiscrimination policy
A significant step forward for homosexual rights at Davidson went largely unnoticed by the college community. Early in the spring of 1993, the college’s nondiscrimination policy was quietly changed. The nondiscrimination policy in the 1992-93 course book is -

But Jones attributes her positive experience to “having been here for three years before people knew. They got to know me, as an individual, first.” The first sexuality forum was held in 1991, before the advent of FLAG, with three Davidson alumni as the speakers. The event continued annually with success. Jones was the first homosexual to speak at the event while attending Davidson. This year, two current students spoke openly about their homosexuality. Also, for the first time, two heterosexual students discussed the exploration of their sexuality. Jones sees that the forums have had a positive impact with all students: “They talk about sexuality more. They never really used to.”

FLAG
In the September 23, 1991 issue of The Davidsonian, several students wrote letters-to-the-editor expressing their dismay with an SAE flyer that portrayed lesbians as “uncool” and that was “slanderous to the gay community.” That incident sparked interest in students who wanted to combathomophobia on the campus. A group of twenty-five students then went door to door circulating a petition which stated that the signers “support the presence of a FLAG chapter on Davidson campus to guarantee ...the rights of the gay and lesbian community.” The names of the several hundred students who signed were then published in The Davidsonian. The next step was to obtain an SGA charter for the group. After debate in the newspaper displayed a nearly equal amount of support and opposition.

“People talk about their sexuality more. They never really used to.” - Meg Jones

bisexual issues, along with some co-sponsors.” Jones describes FLAG as “a group of friends for lesbians and gays... it’s a group that can lead people to finding ways of support.” However, Jones says, “FLAG’s primary function is programming and working on making Davidson as a whole more tolerant.” Jones believes that FLAG is an organization which “should be run by students, while supporting and being supported by individual faculty and staff members.” As for the composition of the group, 20 to 30 people normally show up for meetings. FLAG's members are mostly heterosexual students.

sexual identity. policy, except for the absence of sexual orientation as one of the areas in which Davidson does not allow discrimination. According to former SGA president Alden Smith, that change came about as a direct result of college president Dr. Kuykendall’s initiative. Smith says the addition was “just an editorial change he could make because it is not a trustee document. It didn’t have to be voted on by trustees, so it was only done by him.” Apparently, there have been no problems with the individual decision made by Kuykendall. Smith says, “he checked it out with the college lawyers to make sure it would be OK to do that, and of course it was OK, and it happened.”

This article is the first in a two-part series on sexuality issues at Davidson. Next week’s installment will include personal accounts from staff, alumni, students, and faculty members describing how Davidson influenced their views.

SPRING CONVOCATION
STUDENT ACADEMIC, SERVICE AND ATHLETIC AWARDS
ODK SELECTIONS/ODK TEACHING AWARD
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 1994
10:30 A.M. - LOVE AUDITORIUM

MONDAY, APRIL 11, 1994
FREE ICE CREAM
For National Free Ice Cream Day, Ben & Jerry's gave away customers’ favorite flavors on Friday.
Photo by Amy Laukkenan

The Reach Out organization is going through some restructuring for the campus. There are currently 21 service ties for the campus. Instead of having the officers work for the executive board, program coordinators and Patterson Court service representatives will have a more active role in decision-making for Reach Out. By electing 4 program coordinators and a Patterson Court service chair to work with the officers on the service board, Davidson’s service network will be strengthened. The new structure recognizes the fact that Patterson Court fellowship groups and Reach Out can work together to provide a wider range of service opportunities under the Reach Out umbrella. Opportunities exist for students interested in tutoring, building a stronger Davidson community, mentoring a child, assisting in after-school programs, teaching someone to read, or teaching someone to swim. Anyone interested in coordinating a Reach Out program can sign up to interview this week in the Union. As always, Reach Out stands ready to hear any ideas students may have for new programs.

- Staff Writer

cake flavors, whipped cream, or buttercream frosting and/or borders. Add a Birthday, Anniversary, Shower, Graduation, Retirement, or Other message.

TEST YOUR ICE CREAM CAKE INTAKE!
2 favorite ice cream or frozen yogurt flavors
Vermont's Finest Ice Cream & Frozen Yogurt
507 Providence Rd. 333-1003
The Arboretum 543-8333
120 S. Main St. Davidson 892-0604