4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 14, 1994

New scholarships encourage international peace studies
By T.K. Tibby

The Dean Rusk Program in International Studies has announced that two new scholarships will be available for study abroad and special projects this summer. With the addition of the Ratliff Endowment in Economics scholarship and the Peace Studies grant, the Dean Rusk Program has increased its capacity to fund student and faculty study abroad.

The Ratliff Endowment was initiated by economics professor Clark Ross’ efforts. The endowment fund was created in honor of Charles Edward Ratliff Jr., a distinguished Davidson alumnus and Professor Emeritus of Economics who has over fifty years of experience with the college. Ratliff’s interest in foreign economics includes having spent four years teaching in Pakistan. The Ratliff scholarship will be awarded to one or more students for travel or study grants if they meet the criteria: financial need, a willingness to undertake a project in a Third World or underdeveloped country, or to major in economics or in a project that relates to economics. The endowment may also be used in a joint student-faculty project or to pay for a visiting faculty member.

Ratliff has a “particular interest in students that would not otherwise gain experience because of financial constraints.” For that reason, those students who demonstrate financial need are more favorably considered for this scholarship, even though financial need is not required.

The Peace Studies grant was created through the efforts of Dean Robert Williams and will be funded by an anonymous donor couple who, according to Williams, “are committed to peace studies.” Both students and faculty members have expressed an interest in peace studies, and currently one faculty member, Ken Menkhaus, is in Somalia. The grant will distribute approximately $10,000 each year for the next five years. The money will be divided between students and faculty to support peace studies at Davidson College. Unlike the requirements for the Ratliff Endowment, there is no set criteria for this grant. Since this is the first year for the endowment, Williams and Perry do not want to limit the type of projects that may be considered for funding. Williams stated that the grants could be awarded to students who want to attend conferences or take part in courses or seminars that relate to peace studies. Students wishing to undertake individual study projects (relating to peace studies) may also apply.

New Davidson public library discussed at town meeting
By Russ Tarver

Fewer than twenty were present as Davidson officials convened to discuss plans for a joint college, county, and town venture last Tuesday, March 8, at the Davidson Town Hall. The agenda for the town meeting included zoning laws and development plans in and around Davidson and plans for a new town park. The big news of the meeting was the official announcement of the ground-breaking for a new county library in July. The county is cooperating with the town and Davidson College to build the new library.

Mayor Russell B. Knox expressed his dismay about the poor attendance, saying, “Unfortunately, unless you’ve got something controversial, people don’t come [to town meetings]. I’d like to see more participation from the community at large, as well as from the student body.” Knox stressed the importance of good relations between Davidson College and its surrounding residential areas. He says that thus far the relationship has been “outstanding.” Knox said, “It has never happened before in Mecklenburg County that a college owns the land and the county runs the library, while the town puts up the money to get the building built."

The new library will be located on land owned by Davidson College on Main Street across from the town shops. Mecklenburg County will repay the town of Davidson for the money it puts up for the land through lease payments. Knox described the town-county arrangement as “very innovative and a rallying point to unite the community.” The new library will replace the small library currently situated at the end of South Main and, at 6,000 square feet, will be 3 to 4 times larger than its predecessor.

Donation for professorship honors Stuart Dickson
Money continued from page 1

Davidson for which he has provided key leadership. Kuykendall says, “Stuart Dickson has worked tirelessly for Davidson, and I think the decision to honor him in this way is simply marvelous.” Dean of Faculty Robert Williams says a professorship of this magnitude is a compliment to the quality of Davidson’s faculty. Williams said, “The student-teacher relationship remains the binding thread in the fabric of the college. The Dickson Professorship will not only recognize faculty members who excel in fostering these relationships, but it will also serve as a permanent tribute to one of Davidson’s most avid supporters.” Courtesy of College Relationsin the United States or abroad can also consider applying. Faculty grants for preparing courses in peace studies or for attending special seminars such as conflict-resolution would also be awarded. Other proposals relating to peace studies would qualify. Perry credits Ross and Williams for their efforts in getting these scholarships started. Williams is very pleased with the new scholarships. Williams reminds students that these scholarships are simply an addition to the funding that is already available through the Dean Rusk Program. Students are encouraged to continue applying for the other study or travel grants and scholarships available through the Dean Rusk Program.

Psychology professor Gil Einstein presented "Remembering to Remember" on Tuesday, March 8. Photo by Tony Wagner.

Aging and Hall counselors head to the hills
By Jeff Kent

This weekend, the 34 sophomores chosen to be freshmen hall counselors for the next school year traveled to the Blue Ridge Mountains for the annual hall counselor retreat. The group stayed at the Blue Ridge Association Conference Center where they performed activities and played games to create group unity and get to know each other. John Murchison, one of the new freshman advisors, helped organize the retreat and says the trip was a “time for everyone to get away from Davidson and bond as a group.” Murchison also says that the retreat served as a time for the 34 sophomores to learn to live and work together. Since the new hall counselors will pick their roommates in a few weeks, this experience will help them settle on a few choices for their roommates next year.

Speakers Preview

NEXT WEEK

Monday, March 14
Michael Nunley
“The Family in Indian Psychiatry,” 4:15 p.m., 900 Room.

Tuesday, March 15
Al Scaggs
“A View from the Underside: The Legacy of Dietrich Bonhoeffer.” A one-hour dramatization of the life of Dietrich Bonhoeffer who was executed for his stance against the Nazis and his role in the assassination plot against Hitler. Discussion will follow. 7:30 p.m., 900 Room.

Wednesday, March 16
Carmen S. Rivera
“Oral Voices Latino: Puertorriqueña Writers.” Lecture on Puerto Rican women writers by UNCC professor. 4:30 p.m., Morrison Room.

Wednesday, March 30
Angelyn DeBord: Appalachian storyteller. 7-8:15 p.m. 900 Room, then 8:30-9:30 p.m. in the Carolina Inn. Will also conduct workshop, limited spaces.

Thursday, March 31
Dr. Deborah Thompson: Appalachian Folk Musician. 12:30 p.m., Morrison Room.

Attention: Not all condoms created equal

TOPANGA, CALIF. (CPS)—Using a condom during sex doesn’t necessarily mean you and your partner will be protected from disease, according to recent studies. Tests of 20,000 condoms show important differences among various brands in protection from sexually transmitted disease, including AIDS, said the Mariposa Foundation, which conducts independent research on human sexuality and sexually transmitted diseases.

“Currently, consumers in the U.S. can obtain more information and data about the performance of a refrigerator than they can about a condom,” the foundation said in a news release.

Mariposa recently conducted a second testing of condoms to test viral leakage as a follow-up to an earlier study sponsored by the foundation, the University of California-Los Angeles, and the University of Southern California. In the first study, 31 kinds of condoms were tested to see which afforded the greatest protection against STDs and HIV-1. The brands that provided the greatest protection were Mentor (which is no longer being sold), Ramses Non-Lube, Ramses Sensitol, Gold Circle Coin, Gold Circle, and Sheik Elite. The brands showing the highest leakage were Contracept Plus, which came in at 31st, Trojan Ribbed (30th), Trojan Naturalube Ribbed (29th), and LifeStyles Nuda (28th).

About 20,000 condoms were used in the first test, which measured how susceptible latex condoms were to leakage of viral fluid after simulating the stress of sex for five minutes on a coital simulator. About 1,000 condoms were used in the follow-up test.

COMING SOON!!

DAVIDSON COLLEGE’S HEALTH & WELLNESS WEEK

Monday, March 14
6 P.M. - Exploring Sexuality
10 P.M. - Healthy Study Break

Tuesday, March 15
7 P.M. - 12 Midnight - Intramural Basketball
Health & Wellness Bulletin Board Displays
7:30 P.M. - Self Defense w/Raphael Candelario *Sign up in Union

Wednesday, March 16
11 A.M. - 1 P.M. - Skin Cancer Information Pit, Union
1 P.M. - 6 P.M. - Dare to Be Different Videos Pit, Union
7 P.M. - Health & Wellness Bulletin Board Competition Residence Halls
7 P.M. - 12 Midnight - Intramural Basketball Baker
10 P.M. - Health Food Study Break w/S.H.O.C. Morrison Room

Thursday, March 17
St. Patrick’s Day/Green Means Healthy
11:30 A.M. - 1 P.M. - Mocktails (served by Georgia and Art)
Health & Wellness, Frisbee, Inkpen & Pencil Giveaway
7 P.M. - 12 Midnight - Intramural Basketball

For More Information, Please Contact Georgia Ringle or Art Flagg at #2451

900 Room
Connor House
Baker Residence Halls
Big Screen Room
Pit, Union
Pit, Union
Baker