THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 4, 1994

The Dean Rusk Program

Terrorism strikes in Middle East

By Andy Barwig

Recent events in the Middle East have stalled the peace process once again. On February 25, a sole Jewish militant entered a Muslim prayer service early in the morning and sprayed automatic gunfire on unsuspecting Muslims. This incident represents the latest trend of armed Jewish militants in the West Bank, resulting in the same kind of violence that has marred Arab-Israeli relations for the past century. The Israeli Government has ordered a crackdown on the Jewish militants in an attempt to placate the Palestinians and hold together a fragile peace that was achieved in September.

No matter what policies Israel takes in response to the Hebron massacre, the damage has already been done. Terrorism works in a vicious cycle of vengeance and bloodshed. A couple of days after the Hebron massacre, a Lebanese immigrant opened fire upon a group of Hasidic students in Brooklyn. Indeed, terrorism knows no bounds or limits. Terrorism can also be used to gain international attention such as the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt. By targeting the tourism industry, Egyptian militants have received tremendous attention from the Western media.

In addition, terrorism has a complicated political aspect. America often links its foreign relations to terrorism. Syria and Libya are examples of nations that America practically refuses to deal with because of their state-sponsored terrorism status.

Terrorism in Israel is particularly dangerous. When Americans think of terrorism in the Arab-Israeli conflict, they tend to picture stone-throwing Palestinians. Israel, however, can be seen as just as guilty of terrorism as the Arabs. Jewish militant groups in the 1940s were often responsible for bloodshed in the emerging state of Israel. In recent years, the militant Hamas has become a power in the occupied territories under the guise of Islamic fundamentalism. The West Bank and Gaza Strip, as well as the world, are becoming more and more vulnerable to terrorism.

The West Bank is increasingly becoming militarized; Somalis openly brandish machine guns in the streets of Mogadishu; The World Trade Center bombing showed terrorism has no battle lines. As tensions grow and militants use terrorism more and more as an example of revenge, the world will unfortunately see many more Hebron massacres.

Women love basketball, too

"I don't want to throw cold water on the NCAA's celebration of the men's Final Four, but I will. While the nation prepares for the festivities in Charlotte, I have that 'what's wrong with this picture' feeling. While these games demonstrate our culture's affection for college hoop, they also symbolize our inability to see beyond our noses. There's another final four this weekend. It has the passion, intensity, emotion, and competition we expect from college basketball, but there's a twist: The players are women, and because of that you and I aren't supposed to care." - Robert McCabe, The Charlotte Observer, April 4, 1994

Outlaws and nuclear arms

"WASHINGTON -- The United States went to war with Iraq in part because, once in control of the Persian Gulf and its oil, Iraq would soon become a nuclear power. The United States may yet have to go to war to prevent North Korea from becoming a nuclear power. And there will be future nuclear showdowns. We may be entering the era..."

Spring festival will bring houses together

Greek continued from page 1

...to a system of contests between the houses based on inter-fraternity rivalries. The week revolved around events involving alcohol. Much like the film Revenge of the Nerds, games employed beer or liquor drinking as part of the week. Eventually, the large and...

Monday, April 4

4:15 p.m. Morrison Room
Dr. Judith Farquhar of UNC-Chapel Hill
“Market Magic and Post-Socialist Medicine in China”

4:30 p.m. Big Screen Room
Martha Montell of Harvard Medical School on...Medical Humes. To a few overzealous participants, and some people were hospitalized with alcohol poisoning. Although Greek Week was never officially banned from campus, Dean Terry said that after this incident the groups lost interest and the activities faded out. Those not excited about chugging a beer in between laps on a tricycle need not worry. This year’s events are all alcohol-free. Houses have the option of providing beer for their members and guests, but it cannot be used as part of the event. The return of Greek Week has met much enthusiasm from students, but a little apprehension from some faculty members. However, organizers feel that with the new goals and events of the program, everything will go smoothly.

"Why fight nuclear proliferation? Is it not inevitable? One day everyone will have the bomb. After all, don't India and Israel and Pakistan already have it?” - Charles Krauthammer, Washington Post Writers Group, April 4, 1994

Charlotte: a national city
"[The Final Four] is not the first time Charlotte has basked in the national spotlight recently. The acquisition of two major league sports franchises, a banking industry that ranks among the nation's top three... have put Charlotte on the front page of the news broadcasts around the country." - David Goldfield, The Charlotte Observer, April 4, 1994

Tuesday, April 5
6:00 p.m. Linda McFarland Jenkins, President of the Cato Corporation on “The Challenge of Management in the 90s.”
7:00 p.m. 900 Room Jawanza Kunjufu on “The Conspiracy to Destroy Black Boys”

Stromboli Calzones
Monday - Saturday
Sunday Pizza (& pan pizza)
Specialty Pizzas... And Sodas Too!
Thick or Thin Pizza (the fresh Italian handmade pizza)
Open 7 days
Phone: (704) 892-4570
Free Delivery
10% off senior citizens and Davidson College Students
Take out or eat in only
Notice: (please call ahead for pickups)
Pizzeria Italian Style Pizza
Hand Tossed! Pizza Rolls
Cold Subs
Salads
11:00 A.M. - 1:00 A.M.
2:00 P.M. - 10:00 P.M.
211 N. Griffith Street
Located in Sadler Square, Davidson, NC 28036
I-77 Exit 30, Near Davidson College

HUNTER-HAMILTON LOVE OF TEACHING AWARD NOMINATIONS DUE APRIL 11
Recipients of the annual award receive $10,000, half of which goes to the faculty member for personal use; the rest goes to a department or program of the winner's choice for the improvement of teaching. Dr. Charles E. Ratliff of the Department of Economics was the first recipient in 1992, and Dr. Jeremiah Putnam of the Department of Biology was last year's winner. The award, created to honor the parents of Dr. James P. Hamilton '54 and his wife Grey Hunter Hamilton, will be presented at graduation on May 22. Students, faculty, or alumni who wish to nominate a faculty member may either write a letter to the Selection Committee or fill out a nomination form (available in Brenda King's office, 111 Chambers). Nominations should be addressed to Chair, Hunter-Hamilton Selection Committee, c/o Dr. John Kelton, Davidson College. All nominations are kept on file for a period of ten years, during which they may be drawn upon by the Selection Committee. The nominee must:
* be a full-time faculty member who has taught at Davidson College for at least five years, including any sabbatical leave;
* have established a record of contagious enthusiasm for classroom teaching and tutelage;
* be dedicated and patient with students, with service to them being of the highest priority;
* have the ability to clarify complex matters for students;
* have the ability to stimulate extraordinary accomplishments of students, including those with average abilities as well as those with exceptional capabilities;
* be able to build self-esteem and self-reliance, and to instill in students a desire to learn;
* treat students with due dignity and respect as impressionable persons with individual hopes, fears, pains, and histories, making efforts to know them by name.