THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, APRIL 25, 1994

A new sort of homesickness
Ken May

I have a confession to make. I’m homesick. And I’m not too big to admit it. You’d think that after
a whole year living away from home, it would go away. Now don’t get me wrong, my affliction is not
nearly as bad as it was the first month of school, and there are no tears in my beer (as
the country western tune goes). But it still gnaws at me sometimes, despite the ever consoling presence of my fallen
hero, Nathan Seay.

Oh, Ken, you big weenie; it’s time to grow up and be independent, you say. Well, you may be right.
And that is exactly the thing that scares me to death. I’m losing my old home right out from under
me. The home that was always so safe and secure is now being replaced by a new, less stable home
of unknowns that I’m not sure I want to have any part of. It’s not like my loving family has
totally abandoned me. On the contrary, they call frequently, and my P.O. Box almost always has something inside. But that’s
not the point. The homesickness I’m talking about is different, a much more subtle disease. It’s caused by a changing
sense of home. I’m sure you’ve all felt it. Each time you go home for vacation, you’re definitely glad to
frequent the old haunts again, but something is unmistakably different. Maybe you feel like you’re losing touch with some of
your old friends. Or maybe everybody at your high school looks so young now. Your parents may even treat you
the same as always, but now it makes you feel a little uncomfortable or restricted.

Writing serves as a journey to the soul
Future continued from page 7

There is one thing that connects me to my past, one unifying thread that has kept my soul tied together
between all of my life’s linear spots of time. That one thing is my voice. I think that’s why I
talk so much. Behind every memory, behind every mental narration of everything I’ve ever thought, echoes my voice. It might
be that nothing has been as fluid as my voice or has been able to change so gradually along with
my existence as my voice, so that I never noticed its transformation: How’s that for a metaphysical morph?

Except there’s something else to it, something more. Something about that voice has remained constant. Maybe it’s how I approach
things, how I understand them, how I express them. I have a video tape of me, as a kid, and
I still act in much the same way. That kid used language a lot like I do, and I believe
the common denominator is my very essence. It is interesting how the quest of writing coincides with the quest of
self. There is a tendency to overuse and misuse words so they lose their meaning. One way I try to
maintain honesty is not to exaggerate, and not to wear out the few words I know, because they are the
only ones I have. But the refinement of language is no more important than the refinement of spirit. The search
for truth and honesty in my writing, I feel, is the search for my voice. The more honest the piece
is, the more I discover myself.

Nothing is as close to thinking as writing, not for me anyway. Maybe musicians think in melodies and maybe painters
ponder in palettes of color, I really don’t know. The non-poet is at an incredible disadvantage, or at least the
non-artist. The relation of the poet to the non-poet is like that of the scientist to Homo Habilis or some
other illiterate ancestor. The scientist learned the terms that describe the universe. The scientist is prepared to deal with the
world, observe it and manipulate it, in ways primitive people could never comprehend. The chief difference is the power of
language. It is the same advantage of language that the poet holds over the non-poet. For example, a Shakespeare comes
along, and when it comes to love he’s got no problem in counting the ways. But a non-poet? Well, there’s
still grunting...

Now I suppose a lot of non-writers are getting defensive. I am not saying that the only thing to do
is write. There are many other things which express and cultivate the self, but not for the writer. I work
on several types of writing, but poetry is most important. It is the thing to strive for. Nowhere else is
such a synthesis of idea, emotion, and language. Poetry, because of its form perhaps, keeps the language fresh. It reveals
things that we otherwise grow deaf to. Poetry, at its finest, is life. A poem is the thing it talks
about.

In defense of all my bad writing, I have one idea. The crux of poetry is that it is as
much about poetic language as it is the poetic idea. My style is often criticized (as it should be), but
I am often delighted by what I am saying and that I am saying something new relative to me. So
maybe Shakespeare said something better than I did, but that doesn’t change the fact that I need to say it
if I’m going to grow. The soul of the poet, I feel, is not something that can be taught. I
can’t just read love poetry and be a loving person. I’ve got to get in there and feel it for
myself, and therefore write it myself, even if it falls short of other poets. Writing is one of those things
that I feel I can aim my life at, and even if it never gets there I still maintain that
it’s the aiming that’s worthwhile. So, I’m not going to write because I might get published. I’m not going to
write to be famous. I’m going to write to be a poet; that is to say I’m going to write
because I’m going to try to understand and worship. I have one life. How could I not?

Students unimpressed with SC lawyer's questions
Dalton continued from page 7

And then it happened. Just when the question and answer pe-Period was coming to a close, in comes this three-foot-nine-inch
baldy who claimed to be a lawyer from South Carolina (a.k.a. undercover, freelance scandal solver). He babbled for about five
minutes about something I couldn’t follow. And then he began to ask these random, loaded questions and making insinuations and
accusations like the National Enquirer. He was rude, interrupted Secretary Dalton several times, and was determined to show the speaker
up. After baldy got the answer he wanted, he pranced off in the opposite direction like he was Denzel Washington
who just cracked the Pelican Brief. The scene was almost surreal. Who was this guy? And who cares? Why he
was on our campus I have no idea. All I know is that I am very sorry that he was.
It is a shame that he took the liberty to tarnish something that was going so well. I’m sure that
Secretary Dalton wasn’t phased by this clown, but I was. He embarrassed me and he embarrassed our school. Secretary Dalton
came here out of uniform and out of office. He came here as a proud father, as a fellow citizen,
and he came here to inspire some of us to lead our country, as he does today. He did not
come here expecting to be interrogated by some backwards, wannabe lawyer. Not only did students in attendance have the honor
to learn from Secretary Dalton, they also had the privilege to learn how not to act. The uninvited lawyer could
have written a book titled, “How to Make a Jackass of Yourself at Public Speeches.” The point is that Secretary
Dalton’s speech was about morality and motivation. He has been interrogated enough in D.C. for months concerning the Tailhook scandal.
The last thing the Secretary needs is to be put on trial by some Guido chump trying to make a
name for himself in Davidson, North Carolina. Secretary Dalton, I laud how you handled the situation, considering the fact that
you could have squashed this backwoods toad like an elephant on grapes. I am just sorry that you had to
deal with it.

How about the big one: when you go home, you feel like you’re a visitor. Terrifying! What’s happening to me?
I just want it to be the same as it always was. Help me, I’m drowning in my own fears!
But then I calm down and reflect upon it all. And I realize that this is all part of the
natural process. Whether I want to or not, I do have to become an independent person sometime. Now I’m not
talking about the superficial independence we all claim to have (like getting up for class without Mom’s help), but the
real kind. The kind of independence gained from knowing you are responsible for creating your own happiness and peace of
mind. The kind of independence gained from seeing yourself succeed solely because of your own struggles. It can be frightening,
but it can also be a very exciting challenge. Tell me, are you ready to seek out your new home?
Think about it. And Nathan, you’ll always be my hero, even if you never can find a new home (or
a job, for that matter). Happy tanning, folks!

Consumers should take responsibility.

Small continued from page 7

Mega, supercalifragilistic, wonderful, spacious, splendid, stocked full of all kinds of neat things, open 24 hours, efficient, supergroceries that provide
a whole lot more than food stores, and (2) the overwhelmingly over-advertised restaurant chains with neat commercials, and (3) the
extra-large, clothing-and-much-more department stores. Gone is a lot of what I believe America was all about—people who had dreams of
opening up their own businesses. At one time, with a good product, a little luck, and a whole lot of
work, business owners could probably survive the competition. Now, a business owner needs a great advertiser, a well-known name, snazzy
packages, and 24-hour service. I know there are some people who would argue that these mega corporations prove how successful
businesses can become. Thus, I am not suggesting that the government step in and ban all multi-million (or shall I
say billion) dollar corporations from existing, but, rather, the consumer should take some responsibility when he or she has the
chance. What’s the matter with all these incredibly “modern” inventions? I’m not trying to sound paranoid, but doesn’t it seem
strange that it is becoming increasingly difficult for a small business to survive when competing with these corporations? I am
not writing a plea to defend the little fish from the big fish, but, rather, I wish consumers would be
aware of what they are doing every time they patronize these establishments. Admittedly, there are many benefits from these inventions:
convenient hours for shoppers who don’t have time to shop during normal hours, cheap and relatively tasty food, and all
kinds of goods found in one location (which might save the shopper some time). I am not criticizing anyone for
patronizing these chains (I do myself), but just be aware of how your purchase (however small or large it may
be) is precipitating a trend that will only become worse. It’s a scary thought, but in the future, it may
become virtually impossible to run a successful business when facing these monstrous, expansionistic, never satiated corporations and big businesses. Remember
that the next time you chomp into your hamburger, lick your ice cream cone, or patronize a huge superstore: your
purchase does make a difference.

On to other subjects... I decided for my last article to not get too sentimental and recount how sad I'll
be to leave and how I'll miss people. I hope that you already know that. What deep thoughts or revelations
can I relay to those who are sticking around at Davidson a while longer? Savor every day of college. From
what I hear, the real world is not exactly a great place to enter right now, even with a college
degree. Enjoy the time when you don’t have to think about finding a job, paying rent, or trying to get
into graduate school.

P.S. Next year I’ll be teaching English in Japan, and I extend a warm invitation to anyone who just happens
to be in the area. Ha. Good luck, and thanks to all my faithful readers. I can’t believe it’s over.
