THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1994 11

Stephen Sandy gives life to modern poetry

By Matt Smith

On Thursday, February 10, at 4:30 p.m., the Literary Arts Committee, under the direction of Bailey Foster, hosted its last guest of the year in the 900 Room. Visiting Professor Stephen Sandy gave an introspective reading of his poetry to both students and faculty. Sandy is the McGee Visiting Professor of Writing at Davidson this semester and teaches a course in modern American poetry as well as a poetry writing workshop. He received a Ph.D. from Harvard University and has taught at Harvard, Brown, and Bennington College, where he has founded the Bennington Writing Workshops. In addition, he has taught and studied in Japan under a Fulbright Scholarship—an experience which often manages to find its way into his poetry in some form.

Sandy has written six volumes of poetry to date. The majority of the works read on Thursday came from his last three collections: Greylock (1983), Man in the Open Air (1988), and Thanksgiving Over the Water (1992). Peter Davison accurately describes Sandy as, “a poet who studies the disconnections of sensation from a consciousness to discover, in his own words, ‘ordinary experience on a higher plane.’” In his writing, Sandy renders the human experience in the form of concrete, everyday items such as a used car, a stuffed decoy duck, a mirror, or a sign. However, under the light of Sandy’s imagination, such items take on an almost mythical significance. They are the components of our lives, the small blocks from which we construct them. They are as varied as they are meaningful.

The subjects of Sandy’s poems range from birth to death, from the innocence and wonder of childhood to the more experienced humor and cynicism of adulthood. Vietnam, the coming of spring, cancer—are all addressed in his poetry with a piercing insight and wryness that is lost in the work of many other poets who tackle subjects on a more spiritual plane. What Sandy realizes (where others have failed) is that the everyday is itself that higher plane. One need look no further.

After the reading, Professor Sandy remained to sign books and answer questions from the audience. Sandy joins a long list of distinguished authors who have visited Davidson this academic year, including novelist Tim McLaurin, poet Alan Shapiro, and short story writer Rebecca McClanahan. For their next project, the Literary Arts Committee will host an “open-mic” FAC, tentatively scheduled for March 4. Students and Faculty alike will be invited to read their own works.

Docs, Birks, Bucks, ducks, boots: form and function

Feet continued from page 10

Ravi Jain: “I’ve noticed a lot of mountain boots even though many of us students have never gone hiking. Davidson shoes, but they must be getting funkier because malls, catalogues, and those kinds of places are starting to carry cooler shoes ‘cause that’s just what’s hip now.”

David Moore: “Personally I could care less—people should wear what they want to wear.”I can’t understand why anyone would care about someone else’s shoes.” Finally, my favorite quote which sums up how I feel about this article, was given to me by someone who shall remain nameless: “I think this is the dumbest idea I’ve ever heard. Platform shoes are ugly and you are only writing this article for self-glorification, so why don’t you shut up and buy some sensible shoes like a normal person?!” Maybe a nice pair of Hush Puppies... what do you think?

Volunteer Latin America
Simple Formula, But One That Makes A Difference

Invest in your future career by working as a community health volunteer in Latin America. Develop leadership, organizational, and cross-cultural communication skills while focusing on public health and environmental projects. College credit and scholarships are available. Write or call today for this life-enhancing opportunity. Application deadline is March 1.

1-800-231-7796
Amigos de las Americas
5618 Star Lane
Houston, TX 77057

Work Experience

Dancers tip-toe to music
By Tom Mew

Aspiring dancers on campus now have a unique opportunity to develop and showcase their talent. The newly reorganized Dance Troupe is currently seeking additional members for a recital on April 2. The Dance Troupe, which was first created in the mid-1970s, is being reorganized under the leadership of Laura Leibfreid and Shannon Simmons. Leibfreid describes the Troupe’s style as “contemporary, ballet-based dance.”

The Troupe’s upcoming performance will feature a variety of modern dances. In addition to performances, they will also host special guest teachers to provide further assistance and instruction. Leibfreid notes that currently the group’s membership is small and encourages new dancers to join. Reflecting on the number of dancers on campus, Leibfreid says that she hopes more of them will get involved with the Troupe, which meets on Sundays in Baker, from 4:00-5:30 p.m. No experience is necessary and all interested persons are encouraged to attend. Their April performance will be in Love Auditorium at 7:30 p.m.

A tribute to country heroes
Geoff continued from page 10

So, next time you’re in Home Town Records and the new Reba or Tanya catches your eye, hold back and take a look at the heroes of ten or twenty years ago. Take a look at Kenny Rogers, Jimmy Buffet, and Willie Nelson. Don’t pass up a good deal on Keith Whitley’s Greatest Hits. These are the artists who sang the “Killin’ Times” and “Chattahoochees” of decades past, and these timeless songs just don’t grow old. Thanks again to everyone that made the third annual “Cold Beverages and Country Music” party possible—especially the DJs, Officer Dane Laney, and all those women willing to dance with me. I’ll see you there next year.

The Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St. Suite 116
Cornelius, NC 28031
(704) 892-7030
Tues.-Sat.

Write for Arts. Call Josh at

NOW WITH TERMS
ASTER, SERVICES

FISHBONE (2/17)
VILLAGE PEOPLE (2/19)
WIDESPREAD PANIC (2/24)
RUSH (2/25)
WHITE ZOMBIE (2/15)

2/12/94
GRAND OPENING BASH
Prizes, Freebies, Food, and THE HOMETOWN MUSICIANS
WIN 2 EXCELLENT SEATS FOR RUSH
Lakeshore Market Place: 896-7882