THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 1994

NATO offers former communist nations a “Partnership for Peace”

By Brett Marston

Undaunted by fears that his trip would attract less attention than tales of sexual abuse and mutilation, President Clinton visited
Europe early this month to meet with leaders of NATO countries to discuss the future of this organization. Last year,
Clinton proposed the NATO summit in Brussels in order to discuss his “Partnership for Peace” plan, which will provide for
military cooperation between current NATO members and the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet republics.

In April 1949, fearing a possible Soviet attack on Western Europe, leaders from Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg,
the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, the U.S., and the United Kingdom met to sign the North Atlantic Treaty, which proclaimed that
“an armed attack against one or more of them shall be considered an attack against them all.” NATO was born.
Greece, Turkey, and the Federal Republic of Germany joined NATO in the fifties, while Spain held out until 1982. Now
the members of the Visegrad Group—Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, and the Czech Republic—wish to join, too.

Wary of exacerbating the tensions in Russia by giving the communists and nationalists political ammunition, NATO leaders decided to forestall
formal inclusion of these countries into the security organization and instead have extended an offer to all countries in the
region, including Russia and other former Soviet republics, and even neutral countries such as Austria, Switzerland, Sweden, and Finland, to
join the “Partnership for Peace.” The Partnership will be an activity of the newly created North Atlantic Cooperation Council (NACC).

“Members... would participate in joint planning, joint training, joint exercises, joint maneuvers,” explains Stephen Oxman, U.S. Secretary of State for
European and Canadian Affairs, in the latest issue of Europe. “They would basically be working toward interoperability with NATO.” As
Oxman emphasizes, membership in the Partnership for Peace “would not guarantee” eventual membership in NATO, “but it would be an
important part of the process.”

Polish president Lech Walesa, who has been the most fervent of the leaders of the Visegrad nations in pressuring for
expansion of NATO, initially described the plan as “too little but in the right direction,” according to the New York
Times. Poland’s painful history would seem to justify Walesa’s disappointment. Hungarian and Slovak leaders were similarly cool in their assessment
of the plan, but for different reasons: tensions over a sizeable Hungarian minority in Slovakia are threatening to drive a
diplomatic rift between Bratislava and Budapest. Czech leaders were more enthusiastic than their allies in their endorsement of the Partnership.

With the Warsaw Pact dissolved and most countries in Central and Eastern Europe on the path towards democracy and free
markets, is NATO still necessary? University of Chicago professor Charles Glaser thinks it is. “The strongest case for a post-Soviet
NATO,” he writes in the Summer 1993 issue of International Security, “is that it is both an effective means for
protecting Western interests in Central Europe and a prudent insurance policy against unlikely but large dangers, including a major power
threat from the East and security competition within the West.”

“[U]nless we are entirely confident that war between Europe’s major powers is impossible,” he continues, on what some might call
a cynical note, “developing a long-term policy for insuring this peace should be an important part of Western policy.”

In his article “Replacing NATO” in the Winter 1993-94 issue of Foreign Policy, former British diplomat Jonathan Clarke argues that
NATO has outlived its usefulness and that Western powers need to develop new security structures to deal with post-Soviet Europe.
Clarke expresses his concern that the expansion of NATO might alienate Ukraine, the Baltic states, or other countries in the
region. “The last thing Europe needs is a new fault line,” he writes.

Perhaps the Partnership for Peace is a good compromise. According to the New York Times, Russian president Boris Yeltsin, echoing
Clarke’s concern, reacted positively to the Partnership, calling it “a good formula, because drawing one more line, dividing all into
white and black anew, no, this won’t do.”

NOTES

commentators.” Words we abuse at America When journalists wield harpoons “He [Admiral Bobby Ray Inman] no doubt understood that for
a few journalists every decision he would take as Secretary of Defense would be scrutinized, and even hyperbolized, not on
its immediate merits but because of innuendo surrounding decisions he had made more than a decade before. And he must
have decided that the good he could accomplish would never outweigh the determined barrage that would be unleashed on his
character. “This is hardly McCarthyism, and itwould not have driven a more determined
