THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1994

Davidson’s administration and its fraternities have struggled over the years with issues of acceptance, propriety, and place. At first, the
secret societies were not welcome, but as trends changed and students embraced the social opportunities of these groups, the administration
warmed up a little. They never did, however, want to give them free reign.

From the Archives by Towner Blackstock

We can measure their attempts to find a balance between control and freedom by examining the changing housing situations of
fraternities between 1917 and 1929, the year when the current housing system began. Students grew tired of the cramped fraternity
rooms in Old Chambers they had occupied since 1884. The "incessant" player pianos and phonographs kept students from sleeping at
night, and from studying in the day (sound familiar?). Moreover, female guests could not visit the rooms. The faculty and
the trustees decided in May of 1914 to open up the downstairs of Eu and Phi Halls to one chapter
each, and Oak and Elm Rows to two each, for use as meeting and social rooms. This decision proved timely
considering the burning of Old Chambers just seven years later. So by 1917, the “Fraternity Quadrangle” was occupied and the
rooms furnished quite comfortably.

The Board of Trustees, still wary in 1918 of secret societies, complained about the exclusiveness of the increasingly popular fraternities
and their dominance of student life over the literary societies, which they saw as providing at least some scholarly benefit.
Just three years later, in 1921, the faculty ruled to permit “an increase in the number of the Greek Letter
fraternities so that the needs of the increased student body may be met.” Either attitudes had changed or the faculty
had more perception about the social demands of students than the Trustees did. Regardless, this opened the door to additional
local and national fraternities.

The first national fraternity to arrive under this provision was Phi Gamma Delta, which absorbed the local Bachelors’ Club in
1923. Fiji’s installation did not, curiously enough, occur in the former Bachelors’ meeting room in Phi Hall. Rather, Sigma Alpha
Epsilon lent its chapter room in one of the Rows for this event. Phi Hall obviously didn’t provide Phi Gamma
Delta or any other fraternity what it needed in terms of size, privacy, or what have you. But new lodging
would come in just a few years.

As the number of chapters exceeded the six rooms in the Fraternity Quadrangle, the short-funded College had to give fraternities
permission to find their own solution. Davidson students had long eaten at boarding houses operated by professors or ladies in
town. The few who didn’t live in the dorms could live in one, with a total in 1926 of just
thirty-five students taking that option. By that time, however, the way the more than fourteen boarding houses ran changed, thanks
to fraternities. Davidson historian Mary D. Beaty explains that in 1925 they [the Davidson fraternities] gained grudging permission to have
chapter houses off the campus. Phi Gamma Delta and Sigma Alpha Epsilon took the lead. Mrs. Olin White became house
mother as well as boarding house operator for the Phi Gams; eight members of the fraternity roomed in her house
across from the Davidson High School, and all of them ate there. At least nine boarding houses which had been
open to the entire student body became, each of them, particularly associated with one fraternity. All the fraternities also obtained
chapter houses for meeting and socializing. The Kappa Sigs had a house right on Concord, about where Jackson Court is
today. Just across the street, the Phi Gams had their chapter house, just off Concord on Woodland. Other chapters had
to find more distant housing.

To be continued next week...

1994-95 Hall Counselors selected

By Beth Lindsey

Those who visited the post office last Tuesday may have discovered a little more excitement than usual. Shrieks of joy
and looks of dismay filled the usually subdued place as sophomores found out if they were included in the list
of those selected to be hall counselors for 1994-95. The selection process for hall counselor positions beganLast December, after an
organizational meeting in November, interested students received applications consisting of five essay questions. Applicants confronted difficult issues such as personal
definitions of a good hall counselor, descriptions of the reputation of an ideal freshman hall, and methods of enforcing the
alcohol policy. After all written applications were received by the Dean of Students office, interviews were scheduled. Applicants had to
sign up for two separate 15-minute interviews in which they were again put to the test in discussions of themselves
and hypothetical situations on a hall. The committee of interviewers consisted of the three deans of students, current male and
female hall counselors, a freshman representative, a senior representative, and the current freshmen advisors, Wendy McHugh and John Murchison. After
much deliberation, the committee made its final decisions and notified students of the results last week. Competition was stiff, as
70 sophomore men and women applied for the position of hall counselor this year. The final list consisted of twenty
males and fourteen females with six others selected as alternates.

Laura Jefferson feels that being a hall counselor will be “a unique learning experience. I am excited to relive some
of my fondest memories of my freshman year through their first experiences."

Robert Newell Bailey II
Samuel Wilson Bartholomew III
Stanford Scott Boyd
Jon Gamwell Bridges
Geoffrey Hayden Carden
David Victor Christopherson
Willard Seiyoung Chung
Howard Coonley III
Alexis Marie De Vane
James David DuPuy
Jill Lauren Dyer
Phillip Hughston Ewing
William Frederick N. Gullan
Laura Duskin Jefferson
Anna Mary Amanda Kemp
Christina Berry Knox
Kristina Erica Kops

HALL COUNSELORS 1994-95

Marc Roger LaFrance
Brian Lee Krehmeyer
Anne Elizabeth Lindsey
Deborah Lynn Liverman
Shannon Moore Lowrance
James Stewart McConnel
Mark Patrick McGuire
Rosemary Molinary
Lillian Cornelson Montgomery
Richard Hugh Onkey
Jennifer Rose Reisenleiter
Steven Andrew Shames
Ashley Summers Tabb
Jennifer Diann Tracy
Nicholas David Troiano
Edward Allan White
Heather Noel Wineberg
Sarah Elizabeth Brewer
Emily Louis Davis
William Edward Elliott

ALTERNATES

Margaret McGregor McLeod
Robert McLester Ramsay III
Jennifer James Reinoehl

Former student gets life

SPRINGFIELD, MASS (CPS) — A former college student was sentenced to life in prison without parole for killing two people
and wounding four others in a "divinely inspired" shooting spree. Wayne Lo, 19, was convicted Feb. 3 of murder, attempted
murder, and assault in the 1992 rampage at Simon’s Rock College of Bard. Defense lawyers contended Lo was schizophrenic and
believed God had told him to cleanse the campus of lying, drug abuse, and homosexuality. Lo, a native of Billings,
Mont., had been a gifted violinist at the time of the shootings in Great Barrington, Mass.

Olympics for credit?

WASHINGTON (CPS) — A group of 20 George Washington U. students plan to travel this month to Lillehammer, Norway to
study the Winter Olympics. While in Norway, students will study and analyze the social, political, and economic issues that influence
decisions about the Olympic Games.

Senior services offers tax help

By Mary Laura Moretz

Students bewildered by tax forms have free assistance waiting for them at Davidson Senior Services. For almost fifteen years, this
service has been available to the public. However, says Senior Services secretary Joan Hagen, “We've only had a few students
straggle in. We decided it was time to advertise.” The center has five staff members ready to rescue anyone from
the often confusing process of filing income tax returns. Students seeking assistance need only bring W-2 forms, any information on
their taxes, and returns from last year if they have them.

All single persons under age 65 must file returns on their income, even if they are counted as dependents on
their parents’ returns. Davidson Senior Services is located in the Depot at the corner of Depot and Jackson Street. For
appointments, students can call 892-5111 on weekdays from 9 a.m. to noon. Hagen says that the staff prefers to make
appointments for the morning, but since “that can be impossible on a student’s schedule,” they can also keep more flexible
hours if necessary.

Readings from novelists Max Childers and Robin Hemley
Monday, February 28, 4 p.m., 900 room

A rich, delicious brownie with Ben & Jerry's ice cream or frozen yogurt, hot fudge, and fresh whipped cream!
