MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1994

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

Executive committee considers smoking ban

By Jay Jennings

Smoking on campus has been under discussion for several years, and the issue has been raised again. The discussion pits the right of people to smoke against the right of people not to be affected by the smoke. The Executive Committee, headed by President Kuykendall, is in the process of investigating smoking in all campus buildings, but specifically in Chambers.

In the November faculty meeting, the issue of smoking in Chambers came up in the open forum part of the meeting. Professor Ruth Ault says, “There should be no smoking in Chambers [to ensure] a smoke-free environment. I do not think that I should be put in a hazardous working environment.”

Kuykendall wanted to hear the faculty’s opinions on this topic and came to the faculty meeting. The teachers who spoke at the meeting were mostly in favor of the ban on smoking.

Ault’s reasons for supporting a ban are that she believes there are “valid scientific results to indicate the harmful effects of secondary smoking.” Also, the ventilation in Chambers has been in place for a long time and could not accurately isolate a room with smoke in it. Thus, smoking in one office can affect people in a non-smoking office.

Dean of Faculty Robert Williams says that it is not really clear who is in charge to make the decision to ban smoking in the various buildings on campus. However, Kuykendall has the option to set conditions for the workplace. Thus, Kuykendall will be considering this issue in the next couple of weeks. Kuykendall was unavailable for comment because he is in India.

Dana, the biology and physics building, has been declared a smoke-free building for a couple of years with very little controversy. Dr. Verna Case, Head of the biology department, says the smoking ban is a mutually agreed upon policy of the biology and physics departments. Case says that the smoke-free rule is “not official policy, but they just decided to put up the signs prohibiting smoking.” The reasons for the ban include the animal facilities and the chemicals in the building.

The policy in the chemistry building is similar to that of Chambers, where teachers can smoke in their offices; those rooms are essentially the only locations where smoking is allowed.

Bart Landess, the college’s general counsel, says that the law allows for a private employer to regulate the working environment, which includes smoking. According to Landess, all lawsuits that have been brought against companies for enacting smoking bans have been decided in favor of the employer. Employers have the right to require that their workers arrive at a certain time and a ban on smoking is simply another condition of the workplace.

Soon, faculty and students may no longer be allowed to smoke in buildings on campus.

Photo by Rob Kosick

Committee to write report on honor code

By Meg Wolff

The SGA Ad Hoc Committee to review the Honor Code had its final meeting on Thursday. At the end of the first phase of investigation, the committee plans to write a preliminary report on its findings to be presented to the SGA.

Warren Buford, committee chair, describes the dual goals of the committee: “The first important thing really is to find out how Davidson faculty, staff, and students perceive the Honor Code. What the committee has done this semester has reached out to those closest to us to gather at least a basis for that determination. The second phase appears to be reaching out, through formal interviews, to faculty, who are a very integral part of this process.”

This semester the committee members have conducted informal interviews and discussions amongst themselves and with students to attempt to come to conclusions concerning student perception of the Honor Code. The committee has also reviewed the findings of a survey conducted last semester on the perceived effectiveness of the Honor Code.

For next semester the committee is currently discussing the

See Code continued on page 4

SPRING SEMESTER SCHEDULE ADJUSTMENT

TELEPHONE SCHEDULE ADJUSTMENT
January 9-11, 1995 7:00 AM-3:00 PM
Call (704) 892-2682
Open to all students for all levels of courses. No ceiling exceptions or prerequisite waivers during this period.

ON-CAMPUS SCHEDULE ADJUSTMENT
January 15, 1995 6:00 PM-9:00 PM, Chambers Gallery
Appointment cards for the January 15th schedule adjustment period will be mailed with student schedules to Davidson Post Office Boxes by January 13, 1995.

January 16-20, 1995 2:00 PM-4:00 PM Chambers Gallery
January 23-27, 1995 2:00 PM-4:00 PM Registrar's Office