RIS & LIVING _ MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1994

Cellist dazzles Davidson
By Jim Moss

On Tuesday, September 21, Alan Black performed four pieces on the cello in Hodson Hall. The principal cellist for the
Charlotte Symphony Orchestra, Black studied at UCLA and Indiana before becoming a professional performer and teacher. Some of his most
notable achievements include playing with Bobby McFerrin and winning an Emerging Artists Grant from the Mecklenburg County Arts and Science
Council. He is also a prominent player at festivals nationwide.

Hodson Hall was about three-quarters full for the recital. The program included pieces from four different musical periods. After displaying
his highly developed abilities on Bach’s Suite #2 in D Minor for Solo Cello and Beethoven’s Sonata for Cello and
Piano in A Major (accompanied by Jean Roberts), Black delved into the soul and into the possibilities of the cello
in the second half of the program. Abschied for Cello and Piano, composed by Mark Carlson, is a very powerful
20th-century piece. Almost playing a more expressive version of a funeral dirge, Black successfully related the deep pain of losing
loved ones that inspired the composer.

The final selection, played with Sungil Lee, most fully displayed Black’s cello talents. Ravel’s Sonata for Violin and Cello is
a good example of the compositional attitude that existed at the turn of the century, as the piece tries to
break free from the harmonic and melodic constraints of romanticism. Black and Lee, who is the Concertmaster of the Charlotte
Symphony Orchestra, worked together to produce surprisingly powerful two-part harmonies while also expressing their melodic statements independently. I could almost
see Ravel thumbing his nose at some of the old rules. Some traditional techniques, such as plucking and bowing, were
used expertly and inventively. The performance of both musicians was very impressive.

The only mishap of the recital was when Black broke a string on his cello during the final movement of
the final piece. The broken string, however, did not seem to faze him. He quickly replaced it and finished the
piece with no less passion. Afterward, Black commented that he was very pleased with how the recital turned out. Hopefully,
he will return to Davidson again in the future to display his appreciable talent.

Senior's perspective altered after spending spring in Western Samoa
By Renu Bhatt

Last semester was a unique period of self-discovery for Davidson senior David Williard. After spending time sweating out his “radical
culture shock” (literally) in tropical Western Samoa, he says, “I feel like I’ve really grown up fast in the last
nine months. I learned more in Western Samoa than I did in two and a half years at Davidson.”

Sponsored by the School for International Training, Williard spent the spring semester studying the Samoan language and culture. After spending
a week in Honolulu to adjust, Williard and his group of nine other students set out to conquer the equatorial
heat and post-monsoon rains. (The islands have an annual rainfall of about 250 inches.) For the first month, Williard admits
to having suffered a great deal of culture shock, especially since he hadnever been out of the United States before.
He took classes for two and a half months before he started his independent study. His topic was entitled “The
Effects of Westernization in Western Samoa.” Through his research, Williard has concluded that the current Samoan culture is changing fast.
In Western Samoa, they have a communal system called “matai.” The tiny island of Upolu consists of about 300 villages
which, up until modern times, have always worked together to achieve common goals. The people would work harmoniously together for
the good of the nation, but Williard fears that Western Samoan society is becoming more focused on material gain and
its economy. The government of the islands is a lenient parliamentary system which leaves a lot of space for public
opinion and allows for society to have much say about its function.

An English major here at Davidson, Williard spoke to Samoan poets who write in English. He used their works and
expanded upon them for the basis of his research. Tourism and other international influences are what are pushing the westernization
of this very fragile culture that can be easily taken from the “cradle of Polynesia.” When Western Samoa first gained
its independence from New Zealand in the mid-1970s, tourism was widely discouraged. Now, however, it is a popular industry that
is allowing the country and its culture to be “taken over by western ideas.” Williard says that there is a
big dichotomy between the city and village life of the Samoan islands. Once one leaves the three-mile radius of a
city, there are only villages to be seen as far as one’s eyes can wander. Until about two

see Samoa on page 11

Movie Review

Don't waste your Milk Money on it

By Tammy Tiska

I had already seen almost everything showing at Movies at the Lake. Almost everything. So I resigned myself to go
see Milk Money. Actually, I was kind of looking forward to it. I thought it would be entertaining at least.
But I have never been so embarrassed to watch a movie. It even rivaled my shame at having seen Luke
Perry in Eight Seconds last spring. The fact that most of the people who saw me had sat through the
same movie was little consolation. I ran for the parking lot.

Milk Money is an unfortunate melange of Pretty Woman and Sleepless in Seattle. Motherless since birth, Frank and his pre-adolescent
friends decide they are going to get a real lesson in the mysteries of the female anatomy and bike to
the big city so they can pay a prostitute to take her clothes off. The plot gets increasingly unbelievable. Vee
(Melanie Griffith) befriends the wayward boys, gives them their money’s worth and a ride home, has car trouble, and is
stranded in a suburban utopia to fall in love with Frank’s marsh-loving father (Ed Harris).

Melanie tries, but it takes about two seconds to begin wishing that she would drop the whiny whisper and speak
up. Then there is the incredibly witty exchange where Frank’s Dad

see Sour pg 12
