16 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1994

Baseball falls short of victory versus UNCC
By Rick Thurmond

Fresh off of a victory at Duke, the baseball team dropped a hard-fought loss to UNCC in its first home
game this season. An NCAA tournament team last year, the Forty-Niners jumped out to a 4-0 lead off starting pitcher
Clay Hall after four innings. In the fourth, Drew Fassett uncorked a long two-run home run to cut UNCC's lead
in half. Meanwhile, reliever Chris Pollard came on in the fifth for the Wildcats and held the visitors scoreless for
the next four frames. The ‘Cats struck again in the eighth, tying the score with Mac Chapman's two-run homer to
left. Chapman closed the ninth on the mound, forcing three straight ground balls and sending the game into extra innings
tied 4-4. In the tenth, the 'Cats' errors seemed to catch up with them when miscommunication caused a high fly
ball just out of the infield to drop, scoring a Forty-Niner from second. The heart of Davidson's batting order could
not make up the run, and the 'Cats fell 5-4. Fassett and Hall each had two hits for the Wildcats.
Chapman got the loss, his first, on the unearned run.

In their season opener, the Wildcats beat their first ACC team in two years, rolling to a 10-7 victory over
Duke at Durham. In the fifth, Michael New hit a line drive that carried over the fence for a solo
homer that was

Men's tennis team shut out by Virginia
By Patrick Jopling

After dominating the East Carolina Pirates in singles play Friday, the Davidson Men’s Tennis Team was shut out Saturday by
a hungry Virginia team. In the first match of the spring season, the Wildcats started out slowly. Despite having some
of the best doubles teams in recent years, Davidson lost the doubles point. East Carolina’s number two team of Tal
Frydman and Ben Atkinson came back from a 4-1 deficit in a tiebreaker to defeat Holt Vaughan and Dan Parham,
7-5.

Wrestlers win individual victories at ASU
By Neil Marks

The wrestling team lost a convincing decision to a tough Appalachian State team last Wednesday. The only individual victories for
Davidson came from freshmen Aaron Kenner (142) and Miles Miller (167), who shut out his opponent 10-0. The result was
an improvement over last year’s shutout at Davidson.

“We’re showing improvement. We had a handful of very close matches. Sean Harvey was in a one-point match and then
sprained his ankle so he couldn’t finish,” said head coach Tom Oddo.

The team also recently competed in an invitational tournament with The Citadel, Gardner-Webb, Campbell, Appalachian State, and Carson-Newman. With eight
to ten competitors in each bracket, Davidson had three wrestlers finish fourth even though three starters stayed at home.

“It was a very tough tournament. The guys start to wrestle much harder at this point in the season. On
top of that, we’re battling some injuries along with some minor skin infections,” said Oddo.

Although the team’s record stands at 5-12, several individuals are working on excellent seasons. Knowles is 19-10 and several other
wrestlers are flirting with .500 records. The team is looking forward to the conference tournament on March 6 in Asheville.

“I think we’ll do a lot better in the conference tournament than in the past. We have several guys who
have a shot at placing high. We’re slowly crawling out of the basement,” said Oddo. “We need to emphasize that
the conference has only five teams and each is fielding strong competitors. If we had a ten-team conference, we would
still be fourth or fifth,” said Oddo.

Classifieds

EXCELLENT EXTRA INCOME NOW! ENVELOPE STUFFING — $600 - $800 every week 1375 Coney Island Ave. Brooklyn, New York 11230

Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $279! Trip Includes Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Hurry!
This Will Sell Out! 1-800-678-6386

GREEKS & CLUBS EARN $50 - $250 FOR YOURSELF plus up to $500 for your club! This fundraiser costs nothing
and lasts oneWeek. Call now and receive a free gift. 1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65. Davidson’s only home run of the day.
The scoring was through after six innings. Offensive standouts for the Wildcats included Paul Brannan, Brett Boretti, and Michael New,
each with two hits apiece. Boretti and New both added three RBIs. Junior Mills Arial got the victory for five
innings of scoreless relief. The Wildcats’ record dropped to 1-3 with a double-header loss at UNC-Wilmington (11-7), (4-3).

This clinched the doubles point as the Cats split the first two matches. The number one tandem of Russell Briggs
and Ryan Harper lost 8-4, but the number three team of Bill Mitchem and Chris Parker easily disposed of their
opponents, 8-3. The team turned the match around, however, by seizing control of the singles. Coach Jeff Frank was pleased
by Davidson’s response to the “pressure situation” of losing the doubles point and having to win four of the six
singles matches. All six players met the challenge. Dan Grinnan, playing his first match since injuring his knee two weeks
ago, started the onslaught by defeating Dave Wallace at number five, 6-3, 6-1. Vaughan, Parham, and Harper, playing at numbers
two, four, and six, respectively, each won their matches without losing a set to seal the victory. Because of the
early clinch, the team decided to stop to conserve energy for the showdown against Virginia the next day. Russell Briggs
at number one and Chris Parker at number three were both ahead in their matches.

The Virginia Cavaliers came to Davidson on Saturday with the intent to avenge last year’s defeat and to erase the
memory of Albie Varoski’s jubilant jaunt around the Senior Apartments and Patterson Court. The Wahoos did just that. According to
their coach, UVA played their best tennis of the entire season, and they whitewashed the Wildcats without dropping a set.
Coach Frank was disappointed that the team “didn’t play as well as we’re capable,” but he expects them to rebound.
On Sunday, the team travels to Chapel Hill, where they will try to knock off the #18 North Carolina Tarheels.

EVERY NIGHT IS COLLEGE NIGHT AT FORD'S SEAFOOD, BBQ, AND CATERING
- Bring in your student I.D. & get $1.50 off any entree
- Enjoy a really delicious meal at a really great price. Our fast, friendly service & atmosphere make dinner an
enjoyable break! Don't forget to save room for our homemade banana pudding, voted "Best Dessert" by Lake Norman Magazine.
- Conveniently located just minutes away from Davidson College
- Must present I.D. to validate offer

Hours: Tues-Sat 5:00-9:00pm
Lunch: Fri 11:30-2:00pm
Highway 21 South
Cornelius, NC
892-3362

Miller is currently 20-11.

EZ-CARD, BOX 16516, ATLANTA, GA 30321

Do You Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards?
Now you can have two of the most recognized and accepted credit cards in the world. Visa® and MasterCard® credit
cards... “in your name.” EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE! VISA® and MasterCard®
the credit cards you deserve and need for—ID—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT STORES—TUITION—ENTERTAINMENT—EMERGENCY CASH—TICKETS—RESTAURANTS—HOTELS—MOTELS—GAS—CAR RENTALS—REPAIRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING!

No turn downs!
No credit checks!
No security deposit!

SEND THE COUPON TODAY
YOUR CREDIT CARDS ARE WAITING!
