THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1994

Photo courtesy of College Relations
A student-designed and painted kiosk is evidence of the campus support of the NAMES Project.

Exam schedule now includes afternoon Sunday testing period
By Mary Laura Moretz

Students who complained last year about getting home so close to the winter holidays now have an option to get home a little earlier. Starting with the upcoming winter exam period, Davidson students can take self-scheduled exams on Sunday. SGA Vice President Allison Sabel cites “student and parent complaints” about last year’s calendar as the main reason for adding Sunday exam slots to the regular schedule. The faculty and the SGA usually approve the campus calendar two years in advance.

Exams this semester will begin on Friday, December 16 and continue through Wednesday, December 21. Just a morning time slot will be available on Sunday, making 11 total exam periods. Many students welcome the additional time. Sophomore Mike Ingram says, “That’s an excellent idea. It will facilitate the process of getting home to family and loved ones.” Others seem indifferent to the change. Sophomore John Salter says, “Either way, exams are a losing proposition.”

Bookstore overpricing just a rumor:
By William Robert

Davidson students aren’t the only ones who pay a lot for their books. Students at both UNC-Charlotte and Washington and Lee University, as well as residents of the town of Davidson, all must pay similar prices for what they read, be it an art history textbook or a work of “hot” fiction straight off the New York Times’ bestseller list.

Sixteen titles were selected from academic disciplines ranging from economics to English and from biology to philosophy as well as works of general literature ranging from classics to contemporary novels. These books were priced at the Davidson College bookstore, the UNCC bookstore, the Washington and Lee bookstore, and Main Street Books in Davidson. Of course, not every store had every book, but most of the stores had a number of the books on the list of titles.

In terms of textbooks, there were no differences in the prices of most of the titles investigated. The Worldly Philosophers by Robert L. Heilbroner, America: a narrative approach by George Brown Tindall with David Shi, Janson’s History of Art, and Volume II of the Norton Anthology of British Literature were some of the books whose prices did not vary from college to college. The only differences in prices for Plato’s Republic, one of the titles investigated, came from differences in the translator and publisher. The translation at Main Street Books was by Desmond Lee and sold for $4.95 while the version carried by Davidson’s bookstore, translated by Allan Bloom, was $15. However, Bloom’s translation contains a great deal of commentary on the specific passages and on their place in the Western philosophic tradition, while Lee’s translation includes only the text. Bloom’s edition is also over 300 pages thicker than Lee’s.

The price of more classic literary titles, including William Faulkner’s The Sound and the Fury, Toni Morrison’s Beloved, William Shakespeare’s Hamlet, and Gustave Flaubert’s Madame Bovary, varied only regarding the publisher and the edition. Faulkner’s Pulitzer-winning novel was $2.95 at Main Street Books but $9 at Davidson’s bookstore; the difference is that...The latter edition is one in the Vintage International series and includes other information, including an introduction. An “ordinary” copy of Hamlet only costs $3.99 at the college bookstore but $11.95 at Main Street Books. The nearly eight-dollar difference is due to the latter being a Norton critical edition of the text, thus containing a number of essays examining the play from a variety of critical standpoints. Some works of fiction, however, did not vary at any of the four stores. Morrison’s novel was $10.95 at Davidson, UNCC, and W&L bookstores as well as at Main Street Books. Robert Joseph Waller’s popular love story The Bridges of Madison County was a consistent $16.95 for a hardback copy. 

The problem, then, is not one of the college bookstore; their prices are comparable, if not identical, with other college and area bookstores. However, that does not change the fact that Davidson students still have to shell out big bucks for books, whether for school or for pleasure. Perhaps they can rest assured in the knowledge that everyone else is doing the same thing.

Student/faculty roundtable discussion on requirements for college president

Debate continued from page 3

Tradition. One participant says, “Tradition provides us with a solid base” to guide future progress. To alter tradition, many argued, would require that “we root ourselves in another perspective.” Some feared that Davidson would root itself in a “secular perspective.” The general consensus on both sides of the issue was that “changes [would] affect the identity of the school.” Those who favor changing the by-laws were not convinced that Davidson’s “religious character constitutes the essence of Davidson.” They pointed to the college’s talented student body, dedicated teachers, and other objective features which would not be affected by a change in the by-laws. Members on this side of the issue were also concerned that the by-laws are religiously discriminatory against people of other faiths. The point was made that of the eight Presbyterian, Southern schools, only one, Hampden-Sydney, still requires that its president be Presbyterian. Thus, a change in the Davidson by-laws, many felt, was in step with current trends among Presbyterian schools. Many felt that Davidson was possibly cheating itself out of hiring the most qualified person to be president by limiting the applicant pool to Presbyterians.

A point which seems to have been original to the discussion concerns the board of trustees. It was stated that a majority of the trustees are required by the Davidson constitution to be Presbyterian. As long as this stipulation remains, many argued, a change in the by-laws regarding the president will be irrelevant. The trustees will always hire a Presbyterian, some stated. If the SGA wanted to ensure that candidates of all faiths had an opportunity to become president, the composition of the board would ultimately have to be changed. Most members of the discussion seemed to think this is an unattainable goal.

NEW ARRIVALS: Service, Service!
* PAGE AND PLANT UNLEDDED
* THE EAGLES
* WOODSTOCK '94
* PEARL JAM'S MAXI SINGLE
* TWENTY FINGERS' SINGLE SHORT DICK MAN

Always the Good Stuff. Always the New Stuff. Always Discount Prices. Always Service, Lakeshore Market Place: 896-7882