SPORTS 14 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14

The Players

Kristen Solsrud 5-8 Sr.: The lone senior on the squad brings the most experience to the team. She is a strong perimeter player and one of the Wildcats' main three-point shooters. Solsrud will find time this season at the shooting guard position. “She has been a fantastic example of how important hard work and maturity are to success,” said coach Filar.

Tonya Sharpe 5-7 Jr.: Sharpe has made a big impact for the program, starting every game she has played in since joining the team. She will start at the shooting guard position and is the team’s key three-point shooter. With a career average of just under 11 points a game, Sharpe has set a standard of consistency for the Wildcats. “She’s probably one of the purest shooters in the conference and will be a go-to player over the course of the season,” said Filar.

Maggie Young 5-7 Jr.: Young has bounced back strong after tearing her ACL in her right knee last February. Once she fully recovers, she will return without having lost a step. She is an offensive threat from the three-point line and plays aggressively on the defensive end of the court. Young will see plenty of action in every game as a reserve behind Sharpe during the season. “She has shown a lot about the type of person she is after coming back so strong following her second knee injury,” said Filar.

Molly Burke 6-1 Jr.: Burke worked hard during the off-season. Her height and build bring a needed physical force to the team. Burke brings an offensive threat with a consistent face-up jump shot. She will see time over the season at center and the small forward position. “She is one of the most improved players this season and one of the most physical defenders we have,” said Filar.

Kristen Ferrucci 6-1 Jr.: One of four players to play in every game last season, Ferrucci showed flashes of brilliance last season. She scored a career-high 21 points against conference foe Western Carolina and led the team in scoring four times last season. Her stats dropped slightly after an outstanding freshman season, but after working hard over the summer those numbers should climb back up. “The biggest thing we’re looking for is consistency from her this season. We’re hoping she comes out strong in every game,” said Filar.

Monica Winter 5-5 So.: Rated the fourth-best passer in the preseason conference rankings, Winter will continue to share time as the point guard. She played in all 26 games last season while finding herself as a starter 14 times. Winter was second on the team in assists with 51 last season but will probably enter this season with a more offensive-minded game. “She’s come back with added strength. She’s a lot more relaxed and is better at creating plays,” said Filar.

Elizabeth Dubose 5-5 Jr.: Dubose split time last season playing point guard, starting 12 games and playing in every game for Davidson. She led the team in assists with 58 and should produce the same kind of numbers this season. Dubose spent five weeks of her summer conducting basketball camps. “She stands to be a more offensive threat this year,” said Filar.

Carolyn Kirsch 5-11 So.: As a freshman, Kirsch made an immediate impact on the team and ended the year strong. She started 16 games last season and recorded the program’s only triple-double against Washington & Lee. She will start at the power forward position, bringing a physical force on defense. Kirsch will have to deal with defensive special attention this season, especially after she led the Wildcats in scoring the final four games of the season.

See Team continued on page 15

Photo by Newt Gingrich

Victory. Football team defeats Bridgewater, 37-5

By Matt Pitzer

It took until the ninth game. It took a trip to Bridgewater, Va. It took a game against an 0-10 team. But the football team finally got its offense on track and captured a 37-6 win Saturday. The Wildcats racked up 368 yards in total offense in scoring more than 14 points in a game for the first time this season. Previously, Davidson (2-7) had scored just 78 points in its first eight games, making Saturday’s game by far its most productive of the season. Chris Leak continued his success at running back since switching over a few weeks from linebacker with 100 yards on 18 carries, including a 57-yard touchdown run.Wildcats' longest run from scrimmage this season. Kevin Holzworth was effective at quarterback again, completing 13 of 18 passes for 143 yards and two touchdowns. Leak started the outburst with his dash, and John Blake pushed the score to 14-0 at the end of the first quarter with an 11-yard scamper. Bruce Bannister dove from one yard out to make it 21-0 in the second quarter, and Davidson picked up a safety when the Eagles (0-10) were flagged for intentional grounding in the end zone. Holzworth then tossed nine yards to Mike Cowles for the 30-0 halftime score. Bridgewater finally got on the board in the third quarter as Michael Hurt rushed in from seven yards out, but the Wildcats answered right back as Ty Crovetti hauled in a 24-yard toss from Holzworth. Next week, Davidson travels.

See Foot continued on page 16

Men’s tennis closes out fall season
By Scott Tonidandel

Despite losing half of the team to graduation, the men’s varsity tennis team had a very successful fall. With the help of freshmen Ted Kaplan, Jon Pastel, Jeff Tonidandel, and Jon Wood, they dominated tournaments at Washington and Lee and had strong wins over UNC-Charlotte, UNC-Greensboro, and Appalachian State at the Davidson Fall Classic. More recently, the team had some hard-fought matches at a Charleston Southern tournament. Although there were some close three-set losses, the team emerged victorious. The men’s tennis team closed out the fall season last weekend with two of its members selected to play in the Regional Rolex. Senior captain Holt Vaughan participated in the singles and then teamed up with freshman Pastel for the doubles. Vaughan and Pastel represented Davidson against some of the area’s top college players. With all the new faces, the outlook for the spring looks promising. The freshmen were able to gain valuable match experience during the fall, and along with the returning upperclassmen, the Davidson men’s tennis team should be a formidable opponent in the spring.

Swim team
By William Robert

Davidson’s men’s and women’s swimming and diving teams came out of a full day of competition against William and Mary and American Universities on Saturday, with each team adding one win and one loss to their records. The Wildcats performed well throughout the competition, held at William and Mary. On the women’s side, victories against William and Mary were earned by Susanne Herring in the 100 and 200 freestyle events; her times were 1:57.76 and 54.48, respectively. Kelly Bolterstein won the 50 free in 25.43, and Heather Sweeney earned a victory in the 200 IM with a 2:15.48. Diver Meg Bentley won the competitions on both the 1-meter and 3-meter boards. Despite these wins, William and Mary went on to defeat Davidson’s women 65 to 48. Against American, the women snatched wins in the 1000 free and 200 backstroke with Allison Beebe’s times of 11:08.16 and 2:17.80. Herring’s times were good enough to win the 100 and 200 as was Bentley’s 3-meter score. Davidson went on to win the meet 64 to 47. Other top performers for the women in both dual meets included Beebe and Katie Palmer in the 200 butterfly, Bolterstein and Lynsay Madley in the 100 free, Sweeney in the 500 free and 200 breaststroke, Emily Kuhlman in the 500 free, and Jennifer Schuetz in the 200 IM and 200 breast.

In the men’s competition, victories against William and Mary came from Matt Buck in the 200 IM and 200 breast. Buck’s times of 1:57.53 and 2:09.56 reset the Davidson College mark he set earlier this season. Other wins came from Michael Scarbo in the 1000 free with a time of 10:10.47 and from Mike Rogerson in the 50 and 100 frees in 22.87 and 49.55. Freddy Schnell took both the 200 free in 1:47.72 and the 200 back in 1:56.44. Matt Lake’s 4:57.08 was good enough to win the 500 free. Diver Jonathan Frost won the competitions on both boards. The men went on to win the meet 81 to 32. Against American, Buck’s IM and Schnell’s back times earned victories for the Wildcats. The men lost against a strong U.S. team 73 to 40. Other top performers for the men in the competitions included Lake in the 200 IM and 200 fly, Scarbo in the 500 free, Corey Bean in the 1000 free, Tim Lim in the 100 and 200 free, Bo Craig in the 200 back, and Michael Hart on both boards. The swimmers and divers have a heavy week of competition as they travel to Chapel Hill on Wednesday to face the UNC Tarheels before returning home to take on ECU and Georgia Southern on Saturday.