14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, APRIL 18, 1994

Lacrosse wins two out of three

By Lee Brumby

After dropping the first four games of the season, the Davidson Lacrosse team posted its second consecutive win Wednesday, trouncing Guilford 16-3. The Lady Cats came out strong with a goal by Liz Schaper in the first minutes and never looked back. Davidson’s offensive effort was led by Amanda Bryan with 5 goals, Hedy Moolenaar with 4, and Schaper contributed 3 for the Lady Cats. On the defensive end, the tandem of Lynn Daubenspeck, Allison Rhoads, and Allison Adams came up big. The threesome “has a lot of game sense and works well together,” said Coach Manning.

In the last two games, Davidson has out-scored their opponents 34-7. Manning is thrilled with the team’s progress. “This was by far the best effort of the season. We came up with the big plays and were able to execute on our scoring opportunities,” said Manning.

The team then traveled to Duke to face their club team and came away with their biggest victory of the year, 10-9, but fell to Longwood 8-3. Davidson’s recent successes have given the team confidence as they look toward the rest of the schedule. They travel to Greensboro on Tuesday before finishing the season this weekend at American and St. Joseph's.

Wildcats take top baseball team, 6-4

Cats continued from page 1

1-3-5 double play. One batter later, All-American catcher Jason Varitek hit his seventh home run of the year. The Wildcat pitching staff forced Tech to strand nine batters on base and got 13 outs at first base.

In the top of the sixth inning, Davidson held a 4-3 lead. Leftfielder Paul Brannan led off with a double. Two batters later, freshman Brad Edwards hit his first collegiate home run to give the Wildcats a 3-run lead. “As the game progressed our guys realized it would not only be a close game, but a game to win,” said Cooke.

Davidson took the 6-4 advantage into the ninth inning with Tech starting at the top of the batting order. Garciaparra grounded out to third base for the first out. The next two batters reached base, so with one out Tech had runners on first and second. Senior relief pitcher Brian Heil came in for Pollard to face cleanup hitter Payton, the fastest player in the ACC. Heil’s first pitch was grounded to shortstop Jeff Andrews, who tossed the ball to junior Mark Reilly, who turned the double play to Hall for the final two outs and the victory. Final score: Davidson 6, Georgia Tech 4.

“They’re a classy program, so it was nice to get the victory in that type of environment,” said Cooke. Hall went 2 for 4 and Andrews went 2 for 5. Paul Brannan went 2 for 4 with 2 runs scored and Andrews finished up with three RBIs. Senior captain Brett Boretti finished 1 for 1 at the plate, and had two RBIs on two sacrifice flies, raising his average on the season to .348 and leading the team with 32 RBIs.

The Wildcats then traveled to Georgia Southern Saturday to try to push their conference record above .500, but they lost both games of the doubleheader by one run, 8-7.and 3-2. Now Davidson (14-25) will take on Wake Forest this Wednesday here at 3:00 p.m. before traveling to Marshall to finish Southern Conference competition.

Holland asks for alums to support athletics

Div. I continued from page 1

from the alumni as to what they expect of Davidson athletics and whether or not they are willing to support the programs. “We need you to tell us what kind of support we can count on from you,” wrote Holland. Response from alumni will enable the department to make plans for the future.

When Holland arrived at Davidson, President Kuykendall told him to find an appropriate level for the college programs. Knowing that many people want Davidson to have Division I athletics, especially the trustees, Holland and the Athletic Department have worked to achieve that level. The department employs the best coaches, recruits the best athletes who can compete in the classroom as well as in their games, and schedules the toughest competition so Davidson can continue at the Division I level.

Now, however, Holland says we need to approach the situation rationally and go to a level that makes sense for the college. Says Holland, “We can’t pretend to be something that we’re not.” In addition, the college and the department cannot make promises to the coaches and athletes that they cannot fulfill. According to Holland, without monetary support from outside the college, these promises for the future will be broken.

EXCELLENT EXTRA INCOME NOW!

ENVELOPE STUFFING — $600 - $800 every week. Free details: SASE to Positive Distributors, Brooklyn, New York 11230.

FREE DELIVERY

LARGE ORDERS DISCOUNTED!

Davidson students

896-7272

Serving Lake Norman
Norman Square Shopping Center

Juniors Liz Schaper and Bryan Ok cage ly or a pass.

Attention

Any student interested in being a part of the 1994 Fighting Wildcat Football Team, please contact Tim Landis at x2830. WE WANT YOU!

SUMMER

FINAL EXAMS...SUMMER JOBS...SUMMER STORAGE...

You have enough to worry about before the summer begins. So let Student StoreHouse take some of the load off! Just call our toll-free number and we'll take care of the rest. We’ll pick up your belongings, store them safely over the summer, and deliver them back to your new dorm, apartment, or house at the end of the summer. Best of all, our extra service doesn’t cost you a penny — pick up and delivery is free! After all, we figure college students are smart enough to know what to do with a little extra time and money.

Guaranteed Lowest Prices
Free Pick Up and Delivery
Fully Bonded
Monitored Climate

1-800-593-7867

CALL NOW! SPACES ARE LIMITED!

NEED SOME EXTRA $$