6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, AUGUST 29, 1994

This Week in Washington

Clinton scores but the game's not over

By Scott Hile

Last week President Clinton scored what most would call a much-needed victory. The crime bill, authored by Senator Joseph R.
Biden Jr., chairman of the judiciary committee, became a rallying point for President Clinton and the Democrats of Congress as
the health care debate began to wallow in partisan politics. The banning of 19 types of assault weapons provides the
main debate issue of the crime bill. The National Rifle Association (NRA) spent much time and money fighting the bill
over that one issue, but a disorganized opposition by Republican members of the senate could do little to prevent the
bill’s passing before the upcoming recess. Many of those in opposition to the bill were angered by the ‘pork’ being
attached to the bill to help individual senators’ and congressmen’s states. Another point of contention was money allotted for questionable
crime prevention ideas such as midnight basketball leagues to keep youth off the streets.

Beyond the ban on assault weapons, the bill would create grants to local governments for increasing the size of their
police forces by an estimated 20,000 to 100,000 officers nationwide. Other conditions of the bill include life sentences for repeat
offenders of federal felony or drug offenses (commonly known as “three strikes you’re out”), mandatory reporting of whereabouts by convicted
sex offenders to local authorities, and a controversial feature which allows previous sex offenses to be omitted as evidence during
Federal trials for sex crimes. This last action is expected to be Constitutionally challenged in courts as cases arise.

In light of this victory, President Clinton may not be sleeping easily since the Senate will recess before taking any
action on the health care plan. He must also decide whether to accept the incremental health care plan currently in

The Dean Rusk Program

Refugees: a global problem

By Kate Crosman

In last Friday’s edition of the New York Times, there were five stories in the International section that dealt with
refugees. On the front page, and in a special section at the end, all eyes were on Cuba, and the
ever-increasing human tide flocking to Florida’s shores. Rwanda, and the estimated 800,000 people who have fled that country for Zaire,
filled page three. Haiti, as last week’s news, was relegated to page four. Bosnia garnered just one paragraph on page
five. Afghanistan, Algeria, Tajikistan, Sri Lanka, Iraq, Burundi and many others went unmentioned.

Friday’s paper did not touch on the millions of people around the world who have been forced to flee their
homes but who, because they have not crossed an international border, cannot be classified as refugees. These people, called “internally
displaced persons,” are caught in a limbo land where they are not entitled to traditional refugee aid. A recent article
that looked at the global scope of the crisis estimated that there are 45 million people who meet the definitions
of “refugee” or “displaced person” in the world today.

Once we examine this astronomically high number, and the seemingly endless round of civil conflicts that continue to force people
to flee their homes, another disturbing trend becomes apparent—there is nowhere for them to go. Even apart from the U.S.’s
own refugee policies (and the recent changes that have made those policies far stricter), it is obvious that many nations
are turning their backs on displaced people. Some countries, like Finland, try to operate within the confines of political correctness
and simply change their definition of “refugee” so that almost no one qualifies. Other countries (Pakistan, for example) close their
borders to keep out the victims of neighboring conflict. Afghans fleeing from their nation’s civil war were once welcomed into
Pakistan, but are now forced into camps on the border. Nearly every nation, especially those that fall into the Group
of 7 developed countries, is wary of encouraging the immigration of refugees, who are politically unpopular and often seen as
an economic liability.

Yet humanitarian considerations demand that the world find a better solution than forcing people to stay in areas where they
are simply not safe.Congress or veto the plan as he had threatened earlier. Source: August 24, 1994 edition of The
New York Times

In this post-Cold War era, when all the easy answers have dissolved and vicious ethnic and sub-national quarrels are the
norm, innocent citizens are suffering. Kate Crosman ’94 is the Assistant to the Director of the Dean Rusk Program. Dean
Rusk will be sponsoring a speaker series on the global refugee crisis from October 27 - November 21.

DAVIDSON AMBASSADORS
Student Admission Volunteers
Monday, September 5
7:30 pm in the Big Screen Room of the Union
Come learn about hosting prospectives, giving tours, letter writing, and Discover and Decision Davidson.
For more information, please call Admission Counselors Sally Stone (-2234) or Robert Marshall (-2186).

ELSEWHERE NOTES
Too Many Nuclear Labs
Now that the U.S. and Russia have begun to dispose of their overstocked nuclear arsenals and are seeking to ban
nuclear tests, Washington needs to decide what to do with the renowned weapons laboratories that designed all its warheads. The
labs clearly have a legitimate, continuing role in “stewardship” — ensuring that warheads remaining in the stockpile are safe and
reliable, and retaining the expertise to replace old warheads when they eventually decay. But some officials in the labs and
the Pentagon want to expand that mission and stay in the business of designing better bombs, even for missions that
have not been defined. This is a provocative step that might well make it harder to persuade other nations to
forgo nuclear arms and tests. It is also a huge waste of money to keep three large labs at work
on nuclear arms when their expertise could be applied more usefully to other tasks. It would be better to take
one lab out of weapons entirely and shrink bomb design work at the other two.
-reprinted from The New York Times, August 26, 1994

Patron Saint of Fly Fishing a Woman
I suppose some fishermen are reassured by the image of women “clomping” along the river bank and exclaiming, “I have
no idea what I’m doing.” In actuality, however, plenty of women have been adept fly fishers for many centuries. The
first on record is Dame Juliana Berners, a 15th-century English prioress who wrote “The Book of St. Albans,” a compendium
of works on field sports printed in 1496 and including a treatise in which Dame Juliana describes how to tie
a wet fly, how to construct a fly rod and, thus equipped, how to catch a trout. Dame Juliana has
long been revered as the founder of modern fly fishing. She is also the patron saint of the oldest women’s
fly fishing club in existence, founded in 1932 and numbering some 90 members.
-Victoria Murphy, “Fly Fishing Never Belonged to Men Only,” from the August 18 OP-ED page of The New York Times

Make Congress Obey Congress
The House took a long-overdue step toward responsibility this month when it approved, with only four dissenting votes, a bill
to make Congress obey the laws it imposes on everyone else. The House bill and a similar bill pending in
the Senate would subject senators and representatives to 10 Federal laws from which they have historically exempted themselves. Both bills
give employees of Congress and various Congressional agencies the same legal rights as private-sector workers under Federal laws that regulate
labor standards, family and medical leave, and occupational safety and health, among other things.
-reprinted from The New York Times, August 18, 1994

507 Providence Rd. ° 333-1003... The Arboretum * 543-8333 ~ 202 S. Main St. ° Davidson * 892-0604

A GIANT DELICIOUS BROWNIE WITH BEN & JERRY'S FAMOUS ICE CREAM, WHIPPED CREAM.

Experience a faith community as you learn more about your faith. We offer Master of Arts and Master of Divinity
degrees.
- President Jack L. Stotts and middler Betsy Johnson-Miller, Windom, Minn.

Meet the people and feel the friendliness of Austin Seminary. Come to Fall PROSPECTUS, September 30-October 2. If you feel
called to a church vocation, or seek insights in Bible, church history, pastoral care, theology, Christian education, world religions, worship,
ethics, and ministry — call Eleanor Cozad Cherryholmes, Director of Vocations and Admissions at Austin Presbyterian Seminary. 512-472-6736 or 800-777-6127

AUSTIN PRESBYTERIAN THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
100 East 27th Street, Austin, Texas 78705-5797
