10 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINION MONDAY, MARCH 14, 1994

Kimberly Kreiling

Take a retreat from the modern excuse for intimacy.

"Techition, a sense of lack of profound contact with other human beings, seems to be the disease of our time."
--Allan Bloom

See Juliet on the balcony, gazing at the stars, lamenting every moment spent apart from her love. Now see fair
Romeo, pacing in the garden, nervously rehearsing his punch line: “Honey, I’m just not ready for a commitment.” Did Romeo
and Juliet have a relationship? Does literature’s purest example of love show even traces of such reductionism? The emptiness of
the word “relationship” wrongly implies that the two star-crossed souls were simply isolated beings, forming an artificial, temporary bond. Being
together bridged the vast chasm between them, saving them from their loneliness. A commitment to each other was the one
thing that they had been waiting for all their lives.

In objection, I must presume that a passionate love had already consumed Shakespeare’s quintessential couple before they had even met.
I am referring to the element which we in modern-day America have come to lack. Are people really just wandering
atoms, longing to cluster with another for fulfillment and needing a contract to ensure that commitment? Can we really be
reaching the potential of human these changes, reducing our sacred instincts for love to a science? In many ways, we
are no longer souls, but animals. We eat, sleep, and have sex, and talk about the three as if they
belong in the same category. We assume that an agreement with another person will remove our emptiness, as easily as
a bit of food would relieve hunger.

The very nature of intimacy and love is being reduced to a scientific sexology, with Freud and his studies at
the helm. With each study that degrades humans to the status of mere lab rats, we grow further away from
knowing the passionate love of the characters in Shakespeare. Efforts to analyze human passion have, on a large scale, proven
more destructive than successful. Truly, whether trapped in a quest for “community” or for a “partner” in life, our isolation
is continuing to increase. More and more, people are becoming addicted to that one person who will be the substitute
for connectedness in what they desire.

Judging from my observations of others’ relationships and from glancing squirmishly over the relationships of my own past, I have
decided that our needs, as a human race, go far beyond the simplicity of a mere commitment to another person.
Isolation is a disease that is spreading throughout our nation. As technology flourishes, the beauty of natural human tendencies fades
further and further away. Our language has evolved with these changes, reducing our sacred instincts for love to a science.
In many ways, we are no longer souls, but animals. We eat, sleep, and have sex, and talk about the
three as if they belong in the same category. We assume that an agreement with another person will remove our
emptiness, as easily as a bit of food would relieve hunger.

Getting over this type of addiction begins with seeing people as they really are, with their beauties and their flaws.
Just as a sensitivity to the taste of food will help a bulimic recover from her disorder, a sensitivity to
people will stop one from using others to satisfy her demand for love. To all my friends who struggle with
relationship problems, to the crowds in singles’ bars across the nation who mingle night after night in search of the
answer to their prayers, and to the person already in a relationship who finds that all of her needs are
not being met in her boyfriend, I propose this explanation.

Referring to that ideal, selfless passion that Romeo and Juliet shared with and for one another, my guess is that
Madonna’s bet was right - they never really could have felt that way. In fact, no one has ever lived
a life of perfect love. Echoes of their love can be felt in the first stages of a romance, and
we read the play because, in remembering different times in our lives, we find that we can relate. The ideal
relationship does not exist, however, and we must stop searching for it. We must instead make the decision to endure
our lives and our situations with grace and faithfulness. Ironically, we will then grow sensitive to the beauty of human
intimacy around us. We might even become prepared to have that destiny manifested in our own lives.

Everything you want to know before you graduate

What continued from page 7

(6) Why does the Infirmary have only two different prescriptions for almost any sort of ailment? From sniffles to syphilis,
from indigestion to influenza, from strep throat to strychnine poisoning, from flu to phlegm—take two of their blue or red
tablets and call back in the morning.

(7) Why do we no longer have bells to announce the beginning and ending of classes? This used to be
a great help for both students and professors. Since myWatch broke about one month ago, I have not been certain
if I am late to class. These bells used to give the professors the right to stare us down as
we were tardy to class. When I used to hear those bells my freshman year, I would at least know
to feel guilty when I walked in late. Now I just hope the professor isn’t sure what time it is.
Also, since the elimination of the bells, I have noticed the tendency for professors to hold their classes longer. (The
bells used to be a good hint for professors that the hour is finished).

(8) Is one of the Davidson police officers really a professional wrestler?

(9) Who named one of the rooms in the Union, the Big Screen Room? In all my years at Davidson,
I don’t think I have ever located the “Big Screen.”

(10) Who invented the hinge design on the Chambers’ outside doors? To begin with, the doors are extremely heavy and
could potentially mow over someone with their backswing. I have horrors of an 80-year-old lady getting bopped in the head
and suing the pants off of Davidson.

(11) I have heard rumors that every year several people have climbed up on Chambers’ dome at night. I heard
you could even see Charlotte’s skyline! If this is true, I am curious to know who is responsible for keeping
the doors/windows unlocked, which allows this kind of activity to be possible. I’m not trying to sound like a party
pooper, but isn’t that kind of dangerous?

(12) Has anybody really been locked in the library at night in order to do mischievous things? I have heard
of all kinds of fun games that could be played in the library after hours—Laser Tag, Hide and Seek, and
Library Tag. Sounds like being a kid again, huh?

If you have any answers to the questions I have presented, let me know. Maybe I could write a follow-up
article to inform the student body. None of us should graduate from Davidson without knowing such important facts about our
school.

Robert Ramsay

Adoption and impermanence

Being a supporter of adoption, I was surprised to learn recently of some arguments against it. They surfaced in the
wake of the Baby Jessica mess, and the most radical of which can only be called illogical. This ordeal raised
questions about the nature of adoption in general. According to a Newsweek article by Steven Waldman and Lincoln Caplan printed
March 21, 1994, the arguments focus on two major points: race and feminist abortion politics.

Racially blind adoption is a common occurrence because there is a greater number of black babies put up for adoption
than there are black prospective parents. Beyond what this says about this country socially, it shows that there are many
white couples out there who want a child so much that the issue of race is completely peripheral. The situation
created, however, causes a great deal of discontent. For example, the National Association of Black Social Workers has declared that
transracial adoption is “cultural genocide,” and that it exists because white families want to raise black children with the minds
of whites. (Newsweek). Bologna. Transracial adoption is an indirect answer to the problem plaguing so many black families. It is
a sad but true fact that a shocking percentage of black families live in poverty and without a male role
model. I do not contend that the white family is a Rockwellian example of purity, but the chances of a
young black child being adopted into a stable, healthy family situation is far greater than if he or she remains
with the natural, and most likely single, mother.

The other arena is abortion. According to Newsweek, some feminists oppose adoption because, by supporting it, they would concede credibility
to anti-abortion forces. This is a selfish and cruel philosophy. In the Boston Women’s Book Collective’s publication Our Bodies, Ourselves,
the following quote appears: “Feminists have been slow to recognize adoption’s exploitation of their sisters.” This does not make sense.
It would seem more logical for the pro-choice camp to support adoption, which is yet another choice for pregnant women.
The quote above makes me think that some people who call themselves pro-choice are merely pro-abortion. Adoption is the only
chance some children will get to have a stable, secure family. And it is the only chance some couples will
get to raise a child. The love between a child and his parents is not colored by race, and the
life of a child is not an exploitation. A woman at an adoption rally carried a sign that said it
all: “Don’t throw them away. I’ll take them.”

Chason, Clayton in disguise

Huey continued from page 6 to The Davidsonian. We thought it would be interesting to see how easily satire was
picked up in the opinion section of our paper here at Davidson. I hope I didn’t offend anyone; I do
think the experiment went well. I enjoyed the talk I started around campus. Please accept my apologies if I did
anger you. I hope you can see where I’m coming from now.

Sincerely,
Jeremy Chason, ‘97
