THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1994 15

Women's lacrosse preview
By Will Cobb

After five long weeks of practice in the fickle North Carolina weather, the Davidson Women’s Lacrosse team will head to
William & Mary University to start the season. Led by head coach Kerstin Manning, the Wildcats will travel to compete
in scrimmages against schools such as Georgetown, Washington & Lee, and Johns Hopkins. Immediately following the tournament, the Wildcats will
have their first Division I game at home when they face St. Joseph’s (PA) on Richardson Field under the lights
at 7:00 p.m. March 7.

“I think we have the potential to do really well against the competition we are slated with this season,” said
Manning.

The team selected juniors Allison Adams, Amanda Bryan, and Liz Schaper as the three captains. “I am counting on the
captains to lead the team both on and off the field. I’m confident they will do a really good job,”
said Manning.

On offense, freshmen Lisa Dorson and Rosie Gaynor figure to start on the frontline along with sophomore Anne Sutton. In
the midfield, consisting of five positions, there exist two offensive and two defensive slots along with the center. The attack
wing positions should be filled by freshman Sarah Hogan, currently recovering from mononucleosis, and sophomore Hedy Moolenaar. Captain Amanda Bryan
will hold the center position, while the defensive midfielders will probably be Lynn Daubenspeck and Rebecca Maclean. Once captain Liz
Schaper returns from illness, she figures to start at a variety of positions as she is the most versatile player
on the team.

Heading the defensive duties will be junior captain Allison Adams, backed by Allison Rhoads and Amy Cragin. Anchoring the defense
in goal will be sophomore Jenn Lake in her second year as a starter. Top reserves figure to be Jen
Bean, Michelle Cadawallader, Ashley Gribble, Kerry Monaghan, Suzy Spressert, Tanner Thompson, and Marian Woodworth.

Big games for the Wildcats include matches versus Division I foe George Mason along with the highly ranked Division III
Roanoke College. This year’s matches are important since a successful season could help get Davidson a more exclusive Division I
schedule. “I believe we can win as many games as we have. We just have to put our minds to
it,” said Manning.

The season begins this weekend in Virginia, and with only four home games on the schedule, Monday’s game on the
7th will be a rare opportunity for students to watch the lacrosse program reach the next level.

SPORTS

Senior Sam Knowles wrestles Saturday in Baker. Photo John Ramey

Wrestling splits three-way meet
By Will Cobb

Last weekend, the wrestling team finished their regular season with dual matches against Campbell and Longwood. Now the Cats look
to prepare for the conference tournament held this weekend in Asheville.

In the first match, Davidson completed a season sweep of Longwood in a 39-16 rout. Before this season, Davidson had
not defeated Longwood in eight years. The Wildcats were led by Miles Miller, Sam Knowles, and Osric Prioleau, who all
pinned their opponents. “They had forfeits, but we would have beaten them anyway,” said head coach Tom Oddo.

The second match involved Campbell University, one of Davidson’s tougher Division I opponents, where the Cats stood strong, falling 30-18.
Freshman Aaron Kenner got Davidson on the scoreboard when he pinned his opponent with 1:24 left in the second period.
Another freshman, Miller, got his second pin of the day with only 0.6 seconds remaining in an intense, hard-fought match.
Junior Jared Glick rounded out the Davidson scoring when he pinned his opponent in a really physical contest. “TheseHere is
the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"were perfect matches this weekend to prepare us for the conference tournament, where we have a couple of guys that
can do really well,” said Oddo. Miller is now 27-13 on the season while Kenner has upped his record to
11-6. Knowles now has a record of 24-12, including 13 pins which leads the Southern Conference. Hopefully, these guys along
with the others can make a statement for Davidson’s growing wrestling program this weekend.

Baseball stands 2-5
By Rick Thurmond

The Wildcats once again displayed their impressive power in a doubleheader at VMI. Unfortunately, they bunched all their runs in
the second game. The result was a split. Chris Carrigan started and pitched well in the opener. However, untimely Davidson
errors led to unearned runs and a 4-0 loss.

Write for Sports (please.) Call Will at 6514

In the second game, the Wildcats exploded. Michael New hit an early home run, his second of the year, then
Chad Blackwelder cracked a grand slam in the seventh inning. Blackwelder’s shot put the ‘Cats ahead to stay. Brian Heil
got the win in relief. UNC-Greensboro toppled the Wildcats 4-3 Friday in a makeup of Wednesday’s rainout. Mac Chapman smacked
two home runs, his second and third, in the loss. The Wildcats' record now stands at 2-5. Chapman’s three home
runs lead the team.

Soccer continued from page 1

“such a success,” said Slagle. Davidson will still host the event this December. “We are going to present the best
[Final Four] ever in ‘94, setting the standard as high as we can,” said Slagle. Because Davidson has done such
an outstanding job, Richmond has their work cut out for them. For the sport of soccer, let’s hope they can
carry out what they have promised.

EXCELLENT Free Details: SASE to 1375S Corey

EXTRA INCOME NOW! ENVELOPE STUFFING — $600 - $800 every week international Inc. Brooklyn, New York 11230 Leland Ave.

So where does Davidson go from here? The only other soccer Final Four is the women’s, and the bidding deadline
is not over, so naturally many wonder whether Davidson will bring the women’s Final Four to the same level of
excellence it did for the men.

FRANCE AUSTRALIA RUSSIA ENGLAND

Global Internship and Language Programs

An equal opp BOSTON UNIVERSITY

For program details complete the coupon below and mail it to: Boston University International Programs 232 Bay State Road, Box
Q, Boston, MA 02215 + 617/353-9888

ENGLAND ISRAEL ITALY NIGER SPAIN U.S.A.

Join Davidson's Spring Break excavation project on Aphrodite's beautiful isle and receive course credit.

Informational meeting: Tuesday, March 1, 8:00 p.m. Chambers 312

If you can't attend the meeting call Dr. Toumazou (ext. 2458).

Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $279! Trip Includes Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Hurry! This Will
Sell Out! 1-800-678-6386

WANTED: The Rafters Restaurant needs kitchen help Fri & Sat nights 5-10. Please call Rick or Cindy at 663-7309.
