THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1994 . 5

By Beth Bacon

Surveys may spark reforms at student health center

On August 29th, Senior Class President B.J. Rudell distributed a survey to all seniors asking various questions regarding the Student Health Center at Davidson. Since then, 136 of the surveys have been turned in, and their results have been compiled.

In response to the question regarding the “quality of care” in the Student Health Center, the average grade was a C+. The Student Health Center staff received a grade of B for their “friendliness and compassion.” Forty-six students polled believe that the Student Health Center “serves Davidson students adequately,” 47 believe that it does not, and 43 answered “maybe/no opinion.”

After discovering these results, Rudell wrote a letter to Dean Shandley to inform him of the seniors’ opinions and to suggest that they “discuss their options” at a later date. Rudell also decided to present the survey results to the SGA. Several SGA members and members of the student body agreed to meet with Dean Shandley to express their concern with the matter.

Those present at the meeting include Dr. David Staton (Director of the Student Health Center), Dean Shandley, Allison Sabel (SGA Vice-President), Jo Burrows (Connor Senator), Rebecca Miner, Christina Thomas, and Rudell. All present at the meeting “agreed that there are some concerns,” Rudell says, “and Dr. Staton seemed very encouraged to help out.”

By eventually meeting with Student Health and Other Concerns (an SGA committee) and the SGA, Rudell says “proposals can be made for what we’d like to see changed in the infirmary.” One possible change involves an increased amount of time that a physician is available through the infirmary. Currently at the Student Health Center, there is a different physician available five days a week from roughly 5 p.m. until 6 or 6:30 p.m. Rudell hopes some proposals can be ready for Staton in “a couple of weeks.”

“Dr. Staton seemed very receptive to our opinions,” Rudell says. Staton plans to communicate with the Student Health Center staff to ensure that students are treated well upon arrival at the center. He also intends to take on each individual concern and is “prepared to handle every case that comes up.”

Photo by Brooke McRae

Studying smokers move to 24-hour room

Many smokers forced to find new locations for their habit.

Smoke continued from page 1

Park explains the necessary removal of the Coke and snack machines from the library: “We were having trouble in the library with food and drinks. The students weren’t working with us, and the machines contributed to that problem.”

This year students are allowed to bring drinks inside the library provided they have screw-on caps, but “food is out of the question,” says Park.

Non-smoking junior Jennifer Ray says, “The smoking lounge was not only a place to smoke, but it was also a place where you could relax and find conversation. It was the romper room of the library.”

Park welcomes any suggestions from students that can help remedy the problem.

With Apple’s special low student pricing, you can get a terrific deal on Macintosh, the best-selling personal computer on college campuses today. You can choose the affordable Macintosh Performa, which comes complete with lots of powerful software to help get you through college. You can also choose the portable Apple PowerBook or the Power Macintosh—the world’s fastest Mac. And because Macintosh is still the easiest personal computer, you won't have to dig through complex manuals. Plus, with low student pricing, a Mac is as easy to afford as it is to use. All of which makes it the ideal time to discover the power all college students need. The power to be your best.

For further information visit Computer Services Center

Contact Lou Duncan at x2432

*Note: Desktop systems include a StyleWriter II printer, Word Perfect, and a surge suppressor. PowerBook 150 includes 8MB RAM plus Word Perfect.

All prices include shipping and handling.

©1994 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, Quadra, Performa, PowerBook, and “The power to be your best” are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. AppleDesign, Mac, and Power Macintosh are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.