SO YEARS OLD The Davidsonian

AUBREY N. BROWN JR. || 1928-29, 1934

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994

Writing yet another editorial, Ernest Beatty was not only an effective teacher at Davidson; he was also the source of a good many fresh and sparkling—sometimes startling—ideas. (The two, it is hoped, are not mutually exclusive.) After working through a couple of decades of students, many of whom seemed to him to have little interest in getting an education, Beatty proposed that diplomas be presented to students at matriculation; those who wanted only a diploma would take it and leave. The others, who were committed to the business of getting an education, would set themselves to four years of serious work without the distraction of those of lesser purpose. It’s an idea worth thinking about.

In the annual Going to College Handbook, offering experience-tested insights from the wisest sources across the map, no emphasis was repeated more frequently or with greater emphasis than the fact that college years offer a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. They cannot be recalled or reclaimed years later by sincere regrets. What is the sense in paying the high costs of a college education in money and time while seeming to do everything possible to avoid the opportunities to use the incomparable resources which will never again or to the same extent be so conveniently available? Most students will never again have a comparable library and staff with all that they have to offer. Or a sports program, with coaches and trainers and facilities and the opportunity to learn and develop athletic skills for a lifetime of use and enrichment. Many will never again have such an exposure to or opportunity for close-up association with the fine arts. The list goes on and it is an impressive one. Look around and make your own list. Wishes in later life that we had claimed the privilege of...

In my 33rd year of editing

By Dax Cross

As The Davidsonian entered its second decade of publication, the college itself was in the midst of a new era. Students were caught between traditional values, such as those behind the Prohibition movement, and the wild lifestyle of the Roaring Twenties. Though many students today face similar decisions, they live in an environment which differs greatly from that of 70 years ago.

The Davidsonian covered most of the hundreds of speakers that came to Davidson trying to both educate and influence the student body. In 1925, one speaker gave an enlightening lecture on “Social Hygiene” which gave “students a better idea and a clearer conception of the fundamentals of animal reproduction,” then proceeded to ask the boys to consider the once-absurd notion that the opinions of their “sweethearts and wives” should be valued.

Conservative speakers also frequented the campus. A speaker who visited in 1928 stated that “Jesus is the solution to the problems of the college.” In 1931, Dr. Ira Landith came to speak in favor of Prohibition, raging against the “wets” who were bringing America to its knees. He decreed that “legalized liquor traffic must disappear from God’s earth if this is to be God’s earth.” He went on to warn that the “unclean life” of college students would not be forgiven, and would certainly hinder their future progress. Dr. Landith then went on to declare that the 18th amendment would never be repealed, even in the lives of “generations unborn.” Congress repealed the amendment in 1933.

Since the students lived under Prohibition, and the penalty for violation of the alcohol policy was expulsion, social functions were rather tame compared to those of today. Second-year students waited anxiously for the “biggest event of their Sophomore year.” The catchphrase of the time was “Screen Shebas prefer College Sheiks,” and movies often glorified “baggy trousered campus sheiks.” The survey found that the ideal girl would need to be able to cook, sew, and keep house. It was also a priority that the Ideal Girl have the...ability to clog and square dance. Though she would not drink alcoholic liquor in any form, she would be glad to "pet" and "neck." "Soph Banquet," which consisted of dinner in Charlotte and a visit to one of the city’s theatres to “enjoy an hour of entertainment.” The fervent anticipation of this event doubled in 1931, when, in a delirium of liberalism, the administration decided to allow girls to accompany the students. The topic of girls held top priority in the minds of most Davidson students. In 1926, The Davidsonian took a survey that tried to describe the Ideal Girl. The survey found that this girl would need to be able to cook, sew, and keep house. It was also a priority that the Ideal Girl have the ability to clog and square dance. Though she would not drink alcoholic liquor in any form, she would be glad to “pet” and “neck.” One rather risque joke that slipped past the editors and appeared in the joke section of The Davidsonian read, “Is there an art in kissing?—The only art is ‘Art thou willing.’” Such reckless humor probably stemmed from the influence of Hollywood.

The ads in The Davidsonian might have also influenced the students of the twenties and thirties. Cigarette ads took up half-pages and urged students to “have a Camel,” for they “never leave a cigarettey aftertaste.” Perhaps concerned about truth in advertising, Camel also ran ads with the catchy slogan, “Just quit Camels if you can.” Other tobacco companies played up the soothing quality of their tar. “Your throat protection against irritation—against cough... Give me a Lucky Strike every time.” Insurance companies also tried to take advantage of college students. A 1929 ad hawking Aircraft Property Damage Insurance warned, “You may be able to look out for the falling airplane, but your home or place of business cannot look out for itself.”

Davidson students of the twenties and thirties faced many challenges, most of all living in fear of falling airplanes. They were thrown into the whirlwind of the Roaring Twenties, then suddenly had to face the Depression. With the tutelage of brilliant speakers and the watchful eye of the tobacco companies looking over them, they managed to overcome their naivety and look to the future.

Please Come to the Volunteer Fair
Wednesday, September 7
6:30-8:30 pm.
in the Chambers Gallery
Any Questions??? Call Catherine Turner at x2460

KOBE JAPANESE HOUSE OF STEAKS & SEAFOOD

Knowing at deeper levels professors who were willing to share insights, experiences, and common interests will be in vain. With other students may not often be neglected, we can remind ourselves that on campus we are surrounded by some of the most interesting and stimulating people we will ever know. We do well to make common cause with them in friendly fellowship while we can. Commencement day is here before we know it or are ready for it. It would be silly to louse up the best chances that are likely to come our way. While sustained association:

Sushi Bar Open Wednesday - Sunday Evenings

Welcome Back Davidson Students & Congratulations to the staff of The Davidsonian for 80 years of reporting excellence to the college and community!

Lunch: Mon - Fri. 11:30 - 2pm
Dinner: Sun - Thurs 5 - 10pm
Fri & Sat 5 - 11pm
I-77 Exit 28
Next to Movies at the Lake
20465 Chartwell Ctr. Dr.
Cornelius, NC
704-896-7778

When you need to stretch your food budget, let Papa John’s pizza help out. Use the coupons below to enjoy some great pizza values. PLUS, you always get Papa John’s special Perfect Price. Everyday. So if the only thing you can find in your pocket is lint, it's definitely time to get Papa John’s.

Lake Norman:
Norman Square Shopping Center
896-7272

Late Night Special
One 14" Pizza
One Topping

"Party Pak"
Four 14" Pizzas
One Topping