7

The seminar reads from Joyce last Saturday afternoon.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1994

Photo by Brooke McRae

Literary Marathon

Zoran Kuzmanovich takes Joyce seminar on 26-hour reading odyssey

By Matthew Eirich

While most upperclassmen were enjoying the rush of freshmen arriving at Patterson Court, Dr. Zoran Kuzmanovich’s 12-person English seminar spent the weekend in a different manner—reading James Joyce’s novel Ulysses.

This “Joyce-a-thon,” as it has come to be called, was held in the Davidson Day Care center and lasted 26 hours, from midnight Saturday until 2 a.m. Sunday. Students took turns reading aloud, with one student reading for a half-hour while the others listened and followed along. Joining the seminar were Assistant Professor of German Scott Denham, Sean O'Neill, English instructor at Charlotte Country Day School, and many Davidson students not enrolled in the seminar.

Senior English major Charles Raynal explains that Joyce attempted to write Ulysses as his concept of the ideal work of art. This concept manifests itself in the variety of literary styles used in the novel. One chapter is written as a play, while another is written as a stream of consciousness with no punctuation marks. For emphasis, Joyce intended the novel to be read out loud—an idea members of the seminar excitedly and ambitiously embraced.

The “Joyce-a-thon” was also intended, as Raynal stated, “to prove it can be read.” Ulysses is around 650 pages long and, given its experimental nature, proves quite a challenge. It is described by many as “the Mount Everest of modernist fiction.” Kuzmanovich hoped it would prove to be a true “intellectual bonding experience” for the seminar. Following the reading, the class begins a three-week, in-depth study of the work.

The “Joyce-a-thon” was broadcast over a small, homemade radio station and taped for posterity’s sake.

Saturday afternoon coffeehouse jam sessions

By Casey Rogers

Every Saturday for the last two weeks, the Union Outpost has been a home for the aspiring musicians of Davidson College. Guitarists, bassists, drummers, accordion players, and any other kind of musicians are invited to sit in on weekly jam sessions held during the Outpost’s Coffeehouse on Saturday from 2 - 6:00 p.m. No cover songs are allowed, only straight jams, and anyone is welcome to play.

The weekly event has been organized in order to provide an outlet for students to release their inner Santana, relax, and even to practice.

Senior Will Dearborn has spearheaded the project with the assistance of Max Hyde. Max explains, “we feel it is necessary to provide a forum for Davidson’s community of closet musicians.” Musicians are encouraged to bring their own instruments, although there will be others available to play. The sound equipment—mikes, amps, and cables—are all provided.

According to Max, next week’s session is tentative because of homecoming, but jamming will definitely resume the following Saturday. So, tune up your six-string, four-string, or 88-key, and head on down to the Outpost.

Speaker:

ACCELERATED LEARNING PROGRAM

September 26
Monday Evening: 7:00 - 8:15 p.m.
CHAMBERS 125

HOW TO STUDY THE SCIENCES
"Studying Efficiently and Effectively in Science Courses"

All students are invited to attend
Professor Larry Cain

co-sponsors:
Office of the Dean of Faculty
Office of the Dean of Students

Dr. Kuzmanovich reads Ulysses as seminar member William Robert enjoys the majesty of the master’s diction.

A GIANT DELICIOUS BROWNIE WITH BEN & JERRY'S FAMOUS ICE CREAM, HOT FUDGE, FRESH WHIPPED CREAM.

Why not come in & try one?

BEN & JERRY'S

507 Providence Rd. * 333-1003
The Arboretum * 543-8333
202 S. Main St. * Davidson * 892-0604

When you need to stretch your food budget, let Papa John’s pizza help out. Use the coupons below to enjoy some great pizza values. PLUS, you always get sauce and pepperoncinis at no extra cost! So if the only thing you can find in your pocket is lint, it's definitely time to get Papa John’s on the phone.

WHEN THE CHECK FROM DAD IS A LITTLE LATE

Lake Norman
Norman Square Shopping Center

896-7272

Add a Six Pack of Coca-Cola Classic for $3.00

“Party Pak”
Four 14" Pizzas
One Topping

$49.95