16 THE DAVIDSONIAN

When Davidson graduate Vince Foster was found dead in July of 1993, Dr. Gary Martin, also a Davidson alumnus, did
not buy into the government's verdict that he had committed suicide. Now their alma mater can hear about the suspicious
circumstances surrounding Foster's death as told by Dr. Gary Martin '65.

Could you please summarize your theory on the Foster case and describe your primary evidence for the theory?

Well, the important thing really is not what my theory is but rather the absence of anything approaching an adequate
explanation of what happened. They took an astonishing, almost cavalier approach to such a high-level death in the administration. Just
to look at the way the thing was handled, any fair-minded person would be suspicious. It could hardly be calculated
better to create suspicion. Let’s just consider what we have on the face here. This guy—who was an experienced litigator
known for his level-headedness, his intelligence, his integrity, his family orientation—in the middle of a busy week takes off from
his office, fails to clock, and is not discovered until five hours later in an extremely obscure park. He ends
up dead in this park several miles from his house, when, in fact, there was a secluded park within walking
distance from his house in Georgetown. And furthermore, it is a substantial walk from the parking lot there on the
George Washington Parkway—about 600 feet—to where the body was found, and there was no dirt found on his shoes. That’s
enough to create suspicion.

What about the allegation that Foster was left-handed, though he held the gun in his right hand?

That’s something that I didn’t know, but it has been reported in the Boston Globe that he was left-handed. The
Fiske Report didn’t address the question. They have not challenged the repeated assertion by a lot of the critics that
he was left-handed.

What was the conclusion of the Fiske Report?

All I can say is the Fiske Report was transparent whitewash. There are so many inconsistencies. The Fiske Report finds
a lot of curious things and still concludes that it was suicide—such as the fact that there were carpet fibers
all over his clothing, five or six different colors. They found that his head had been moved. If he died
instantaneously, how is it that blood apparently ran uphill from his mouth up toward his eye when he was lying
on an incline with his feet much below his head? Everyone should get a copy of the Fiske Report themselves
and read it. You'll find it’s much weaker than the Warren Report, and the Warren Report few people accept anymore.
Every bit of evidence that they have presented has questions that go along with it. There are so many inconsistencies.

What are the major inconsistencies in the story that seem to indicate that the government has been involved in some
foul play?

I think number one, probably, is that torn-up note. I call it the “non-suicide note.” It turned up about a
week later, after the police—according to all the reports—had already looked through his office thoroughly, had examined his briefcase thoroughly,
and hadn’t found any such note. And they were looking explicitly for anything like a suicide note. Who found the
note? It was one of the lawyers in the White House. He claims to have found the note torn into
28 pieces, with one piece missing (where the signature would have been), in the bottom of the briefcase a couple
of days after the police had gone through it and found nothing. That’s virtually impossible. The police went through the
briefcase. How do you miss 27 pieces of torn-up legal pad?

Then there’s the matter of the so-called powder burns on the hand. He would have had to have held the
gun with his hand over the front cylinder gap. Nobody holds a gun like that. It really looks like the
so-called powder burns were painted on, maybe with a Q-tip, like somebody swabbed out the barrel of the pistol and
rubbed it on his finger. It looked as phony as the note.

What about the matter of the files missing from his office?

Of course, that’s another reason to be suspicious. On the face of it, this is obstruction of justice. This came
to light on December 20 in a report in the Washington Times that Whitewater-related files were taken from Foster’s office.
The White House disobeyed the police order to seal off the office until the police could get in there and
then would not permit the police to get into the office for a full day. The police didn’t come until
the 22nd of July, and he died on the 20th. In the meantime, they had the run of the office.
Who knows what they took out of the office? They say it was Whitewater-related. They could have taken anything—any incriminating
documents.

What motivation do you guess the government would have to kill Foster?

I think that’s a guessing game that it’s best not to get into. They would call it “wild speculation.” They
love to attack the critics that way. I mean, I think it’s wild speculation to suggest that he killed himself.
I haven’t seen the first bit of evidence [to suggest that]. But we are learning things about the Clinton White
House, and particularly the Clinton administration in Arkansas, that, had we known these things before the election, maybe the election
would have had a different outcome. I’m not saying that Clinton personally had anything to do with this, but his
political career has certainly not been one of the highest probity. And he should not receive more lenient treatment than
the average person would. He should not be above the law.

I understand that you’ve had some contact with William Styron about his Newsweek article last year about Vince Foster that
mentioned...

_BACK PAGE INTERVIEW_

...at the same time Foster was. I recollect him only as an adversary in intramural basketball. He was an SAE,
and I was not in a fraternity. The independents played them in basketball. He was two classes behind me, and
he was in a fraternity that I really didn’t have a lot of dealings with. I didn’t know him personally.

If you want to ask what my suspicions are about his death, I do believe that it might have been
because he was a product of the Davidson of that time. I don’t know what it’s like now, but we
had a very strict honor code; we were proud of our ethics and our morals as much as of our
academic achievement. I wrote a letter the very first week [after his death] to a Washington newspaper suggesting that the
fact that people had said all the best about his ethics and morality might not make... I think everybody at
Davidson took it a little personally.Davidson. Could you tell us about your contact with Foster while you were both at
Davidson and recount your correspondence with Styron?

First, I was definitely at Davidson with him. A good candidate for suicide but a good candidate for murder. Possibly
he knew things he could not be trusted to keep secret from the American people—if it came to that—and that’s
what did him in.

About the Styron thing: I was very incensed by the article in Newsweek. I wrote a letter to Newsweek and
sent a copy to you. Styron used the occasion of the suicide of Kurt Cobain, which was clearly a suicide
of a drugged young rock musician, to offer his opinions about the Foster case based on his own experience with
depression. As if that were necessarily Foster’s depression. And since I had his phone number in my alumni directory, I
gave him a call. Mainly, I wanted to find out what his sources were. We didn’t get very far into
the conversation before he hung up on me. And I tried to be as polite as possible. I really just
wanted to see where he was coming from. When he hung up on me, I then wrote him a two-page
letter. I knew from the Newsweek article that he was something of an expert on depression, having experienced it himself
and having written a book on the subject. I said that if he had been an expert on crimes of
passion, would he have automatically concluded that maybe the wife, or Hillary, or some lover had hired a hitman to
kill him? He is assuming what is at issue here. I think we should simply look at the evidence, not
use our preconceptions based upon our own experiences.

I suppose that you’ve been criticized for upsetting his family.

Why should it upset the family? That’s preposterous on the face of it. Doesn't the family want to get to
the bottom of it? Unless there’s some scandal that’s out there. But he’s a public figure; the public’s interest is
to know if there’s some scandal that got him killed. That’s the only reason the family might want it hushed
up. But it looks like his integrity got him killed. Even Clinton admitted (this is a little bit shameful) in
the funeral address: “Let’s remember him for how he lived, not for how he died.” That rather incensed me when
I heard it. That’s jumping to the conclusion that it was suicide and admitting that there’s something shameful about it.
We don’t want to remember him for how he died. I'd prefer to remember, if you really care about him,
that he died for his integrity, that he was a victim, not of his own hand but of somebody else’s.
You think of his memory much better that way than if he couldn’t bear up to a little bit of
criticism. That’s the suggestion.

Are any other people involved with you in getting to the bottom of this?

Well, there are lots of people. I would say that the organization Accuracy in Media needs to be very much
commended for the efforts they have made. The news media generally have been deplorable. They really have been part of
the cover-up. Why? You got me. I mean, they seem to be heavily pro-Clinton. He is an extremely protected President,
and they’re protecting him greatly [on this issue].

Do you really think that the media has been helping Clinton? It seems that they’re doing everything they can to
tear him down.

I don’t agree with that at all. Look at all the things that have been reported in foreign newspapers. For
instance, in the long interview in the London Telegraph with Sally Purdue, a former mistress of Clinton, she reported having
received death threats in writing—which she turned over to the FBI—if she didn’t stay quiet about her affair with Clinton.
The American public is not aware of this. Purdue, in the interview, concludes that Clinton is the most protected man
who has ever been President of this country.

Your poems include “The Ballad of Vincent Foster,” “Mourning in America,” and “The News.” What made you choose this medium
for expressing your doubts about the activities of the government?

I think that with poetry, you can express heightened emotion, and that there are some things you can say that
simply can’t be said with prose. In fact, one of the people with Accuracy in Media and I were discussing
the criticism of the critics, that we’re causing discomfort to the family. Now, if you don’t see the stupidity, the
outrageousness of that argument, there’s hardly any prose that can convince you. So he suggested that I do a poem
on that whole issue. I said OK, I’ll give it a try. So I came up with this short one
called “Solicitude,” which I believe pretty well answers that charge:

“Don’t you think that the family has suffered enough? / Why must you stir up this mess? / He wasn’t
constructed of very strong stuff. / He couldn’t put up with the press. / He must not have been what
he seemed to be. / He could not have been very stable. / That he might have been killed for
his honesty is just a romantic fable. / We’ll fight for his right to be off in the head. /
What do you mean, we venture. / If you should turn up mysteriously dead, / this is how we would
defend you.”

Now, I simply can’t say that in prose. I think that it makes the case. I think that it’s irrefutable
that people who have had loved ones die under suspicious circumstances don’t jump to the conclusion that it was suicide.
This is how I can sort of perform the role of the loved one we’re not hearing from. I think
the loved ones have been silent, or silenced, although through their lawyer, “the family” issued a statement that they were
satisfied that it was suicide.

Have you ever felt in danger of being squelched by nefarious governmental agents?

I certainly haven’t seen any direct indication of that. I think it’s a sad day in this country if any
American citizen feels threatened for asking fundamental questions that any citizen ought to ask. I’m just asking that these things
all be brought out in the open. And I certainly have expressed suspicion of what are patently suspicious goings-on. But
no, I haven’t really felt threatened.

What motivated you to follow this case so closely?

One of the reasons I’m concerned is that I took it a little more personally than I would have if
it hadn’t been another Davidson guy. I think everybody at Davidson ought to take it a little personally. Imagine if
it were a loved one of yours—you wouldn’t want to leave it hanging. We need to shed some light here.
What is the Davidson motto—Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas? You can’t have Libertas without Lux.

BY ALEX CRUMBLEY
