12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1994

Richard to give reading at Davidson this week

Writer continued from page 11

Bottom of the World, and in the spring of this year, his first novel, Fishboy, was selected to be the
subject of a two-part essay by The New York Times Book Review. His short story “Strays” was included in The
Best American Short Stories in 1988, and a new story was featured in Esquire’s Summer Fiction Special this summer. He
has received the Jean Goodhart Shaprio Fiction Prize, a Pushcart Prize, and a New York Foundation for the Arts Fellowship.

Richard is a Southerner (his degree is from Washington and Lee), and his fiction is typically placed in the South
and peopled with Southern characters. And he is a very “contemporary” writer, a student of Gordon Lish with a penchant
for experimentation. But he is a typical example of neither the southern writer nor the contemporary experimental writer. His stories,
collected in The Ice at the Bottom of the World, engage none of the stereotypical effects of Southern fiction (unless
it is to blow them wildly out of proportion, reinvigorating them by making them outrageous) and reach more deeply into
emotional territory than most experimental or contemporary fiction ever begins to do.

His first novel, Fishboy, begins strange and gets stranger as it tracks the experience of a boy (half-fish) on a
boat with a crew of freaks, murderers, and miscreants. Though it may be gothic and Southern, this is not the
stuff of Faulkner or Styron rehashed, nor is it the kitchen-and-bedroom sort of fiction so popular among too many writers
of Richard’s generation. His writing is truly of a new sort, and it is fascinating. Richard will be reading Wednesday
at 7:30 in the 900 Room.

Moss puts Beatles, G-n-R

Rockin’ continued from pg. 10

Page is even more brilliant than before, and John Paul Jones shows a stronger compositional input. This is definitely Zeppelin’s
peak performance.

Appetite for Destruction: This Guns-n-Roses instant classic is probably in 90% of all Davidson male CD collections (and 1% of
female collections). It’s the album that rescued me from the horrors of Top 40. This is most assuredly the number
one kick-butt album ever released. The incredible level of energy, style, and virtuosity carries for twelve full songs, an extreme
rarity.

There are four main factors that make these albums great:
1) Great songwriting. These guys can write a tune containing more than three chords and a verse-chorus-verse-chorus-bridge-verse-chorus format.

ON THE SCENE

ART
All week, you can visit the Visual Art Center for their two current exhibits. In the Edward M. Smith Gallery,
you can view the Patrick Donley Exhibition, entitled “Cyclical Nature.” In the William H. Van Every, Jr. gallery, you will
find the Annual Faculty Exhibition. Also, when you’re in the Union, you might want to check out the Bob Crum
Exhibition in the Union Gallery, entitled “With These Hands,” drawings of Carolina Artists and Artisans. There will be new exhibits
opening on Thursday, Oct. 13 in the Visual Arts Center: Daniel Sutherland, Paintings and Glenn Dashe, Sculpture. We will cover
these exhibits in more detail after Fall Break.

MUSIC
On Monday night at 7:30 p.m., Jennifer Stasack will give a lecture/presentation of Korean Music in the Visual Arts Center.
If you don’t know anything about this, you should go! Later that night in the 900 Room, there will be
an Intimate Performance Concert, the second in the Live Monday series. Acoustic guitarist Pierce Pettis will be performing at 10:00
p.m. Come check this out.

MOVIES/THEATER
A Streetcar Named Desire will be shown in the 900 Room on Wednesday, Oct. 5 at 9:30 p.m. Then on
Wednesday, Oct. 12, when we return from Fall Break, there will be a double feature beginning at 8 p.m. in
the 900 Room—Psycho and Cape Fear. On Sunday, October 16, there will be a movie sponsored by FLAG to foster
gay, lesbian, and bisexual awareness. This will take place at 8:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

MISCELLANEOUS
Be sure to go to the Coffeehouse in the 900 Room from 8:30-11:00 every Tuesday morning. Donuts, bagels, coffee, and
different juices served. Mmm. Then there’s Twenty-one year old night in the Union 900 Room later on Tuesday night. The
Spanish Department will be sponsoring a lecture: Rosibel Lopez will speak about Nicaragua in the Morrison Room at 4:00 on
Tuesday, October 4. Please go to see fiction writer Mark Richard give a reading in the 900 Room on Wednesday,
October 5 at 7:30 p.m.7:30 p.m. It should be really good. See George Weld’s preview in this issue. The Dean
Rusk program is featuring a lecturer, Morgan Williams, who will be speaking on New Zealand and environmental challenges on Thurs,
Oct. 6 at 4:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Come to the Jumpin’ Java Cafe at 9:30 p.m. in the
Union Outpost on Thursday Night. There will be music, fun, coffee, food, etc. This is the closest thing Davidson has
to a coffeehouse, so I encourage you to check it out. You will be pleased you did.

- Social - Semi Formal - Formal
A, Day To Kenenbere
$92 5575
Magnolia Plaza
Across from Peninsula Club
* 10% off with Davidson Coll. ID

2) Great musicianship. With the possible exception of the Beatles, all of these bands are or were among the best
at their respective instruments. The Beatles didn’t need to be virtuosic, because they were so revolutionary.

3) Depth: These albums simply do not have songs on them that make you press the skip button. They’re all
great. I only listen to Dark Side, for example, if I have time to hear it all the way through.

4) Influence: Each of these works is a landmark. Sgt. Pepper’s was one of the many Beatles’ albums that redefined
rock and roll. Dark Side’s influences are immeasurable, ranging from whispered background voices to an obsessive dedication to production. Zeppelin,
as mentioned, spawned an entire family of musical styles. Synchronicity was instrumental in the break from the heavy guitar crunching
sounds of the seventies. Finally, Appetite’s influences cannot yet be measured, but it definitely helped rescue us from techno and
pointed towards the grunge movement of the early nineties.

A Advice Column
Dear Terry Buffington,
"Someone who cares"

Talent for a Cause Show continued from page 10

a mockery—exactly what they wanted. The crowd once again erupted into laughter and applause as loud as any other time
in the evening. Dr. Shelley Rigger and Beth DeSonbre sang two folk songs, one of which was in honor of
the victims of AIDS and the Quilt. Next, Dr. Tony Abbott recited the first poem from his recently published collection
of poems, “A Small Thing Like A Breath.” Drs. Garrett Fagan and John Wertheimer performed a folksong created by Irish
immigrants in Texas. The final performance was given by Dr. Ed Palmer who performed three blues songs in a deep,
resonant voice. The evening concluded with Assistant Chaplain Brenda Tapia thanking all of the volunteers for their help in coordinating
the show. She dedicated the show to Gary Mason, Assistant Dean of Admissions from 1987-89. Mason died from AIDS in
September of 1989. Tapia noted that during his time nearly everyone on campus had been touched by Mason in some
way or another and marked with sadness his tragic passing. It was Mason who organized the first faculty/staff talent show.
One hundred percent of the revenue from the sale of the six dollar tickets went to the AIDS Memorial Quilt.
Meg Kimmel said, “We are having fun in the name of a cause we believe in.”

Registration begins today for SPADES FOR AIDS, Monday, October 17

Dear Terry,
I have a small problem. There’s someone I like, but the only problem is that he is my boyfriend’s good
friend. I think he likes me too, and things haven’t been well with my boyfriend lately. What can I do?
I don’t want to control myself.
Signed,
Dazed & Confused

Dear Dazed & Confused,
I think I see your first problem—you don’t want to control yourself. Let me ask you a question: What happens
when people don’t control their hunger? They get fat. What happens when people don’t control their anger? They kill people.
What happens when people don’t control their sex drives? They get reputations. Being mature members of this society, we all
know the importance of image. Without it we are no one—just another face in the crowd, just another silhouette in
the mist, just another bump on the proverbial log. With an image we are Mr. or Ms. Everything, the eighth
wonder of the world, the latest guest on Letterman, the guy who makes such a stir at high school reunions.
But it can work the other way, as well. A bad image can turn you into Joe the pathetic crack
addict, or Mary the histrionic child abandoner; or in your case Dazed & Confused the two-timing nymphomaniacal whore of Mecklenburg.
So watch out. Feel out the situation carefully and decide between bachelor #1 and #2 on the basis of what
is right for you, but more importantly on the basis of what would make you look best among your peers.
And remember—happiness is important, but image is everything.
Love,
Terry
