THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1994 15

Cat Nips

We've got Dallas Cowboy fans

By Mike Wang & Dave Dwyer

The Washington Redskins. The San Francisco 49ers. The AFC. Even the Carolina Panthers. What do all of these teams have in common? Simple. None will ever achieve the famed glory of a certain team, from a certain state, whose helmet has a certain star, and whose stadium has a certain hole so that God himself can look in and watch his team play.

Arrogant, you say? Ridiculous? Ignorant? Maybe, but we won’t stoop to that level. We’re here, as part of your $23,000 tuition, to educate you on the Dallas Cowboys, in the case that you’ve been living under a rock for the past thirty-four years (or in Washington, for that matter). We will be providing weekly updates and predictions, even though they’re really unnecessary because the winner of Super Bowl XXIX is already a foregone conclusion. Hopefully, our insight will spark some interest in the upcoming season, which is basically an eighteen-week coronation period for “da Boys” down in Irving.

By the time you have read this, the Cowboys have amassed a record of 2-0, having stomped Pittsburgh 26-9 at Three Rivers and the Houston Oilers 24-3. The next victim is the Detroit Lions, who in 1993 shuffled quarterbacking duties between perennial All-Pros Erik Kramer, Rodney Peete, and Andre Ware. OK, they have Pro Bowler Barry Sanders, but he can’t carry an offense and he doesn’t play defense. Our prediction: Dallas 32-12.

Because this is our inaugural column, we will not enlighten you this week on various players or team concerns. However, look for upcoming features as we sift through coach Barry Switzer’s mail and trash, and personally order the 1995 championship rings. We’ll conclude with a useless trivia question: What college did reserve safety Kenny “the Shark” Gant attend? Answer next week.

Soccer celebrates conference victory

Soccer continued from page 14

game and went on to snatch the victory.

“This game was a turning point for us,” says Lombard. She said that the team was having a “down season” due to a lack of both confidence and healthy players. Now, however, almost everyone who was sick or injured is once again playing, and after finally scoring some goals, the Wildcats have gained the confidence they needed to continue winning.

Women’s soccer Coach Kevin Hundley was both pleased and excited with his team’s win over Georgia Southern. Having a 1-0 conference record is an excellent start and should set the Wildcats up for an outstanding showing in the Southern Conference tournament in November.

With their first conference victory and a good deal of confidence under their belt, the women’s soccer team gears up for its next game next Saturday, when the Wildcats will take on another conference rival, UNC-Greensboro, in what will be a heated contest.

Friday Sept. 16
FURMAN vs. UCLA
5:30 PM

DAVIDSON vs. RADFORD
8:00 PM

SPECIAL GAME DAY GIVEAWAYS AND HALFTIME CONTESTS COURTESY OF ADIDAS

Call Us! 896-8007

Shops on the Green - Cornelius
HOURS: 4pm-11pm Sun-Thurs; 4pm-12 midnight Fri-Sat
Valid at participating locations only. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. ©1994 Domino’s Pizza, Inc.

DRIVERS EARN $4.25 per hour - flexible hours

INSIDE POSITIONS AVAILABLE very flexible hours competitive pay