**The Davidsonian**

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXV

MONDAY, APRIL 25, 1994

Shandley named Dean of Students

By Phil Ewing

Last Tuesday afternoon, on I-77 near the Charlotte airport, President John Kuykendall offered the Dean of Students job to Tom
Shandley, the current Dean of Student Affairs at Rhodes College. The offer concluded a two-day final interview process.

Shandley accepted the offer on Thursday evening. The Board of Trustees then officially approved Shandley during its Friday meeting, concluding
the nationwide search which attracted nearly 200 applicants.

Tom Shandley

The new Dean plans to move to Davidson over the summer with his wife Anne and his three children, Elizabeth,
9, Joseph, 6, and Will, 2.

He expects to begin his job learning about the roles and talents of the Student Life Staff. When students arrive
in the fall, Shandley anticipates addressing student-faculty relationships. “I will sit down in the middle and help students and faculty
come to the middle,” he said on Saturday.

He understands the faculty’s desire for a more “intellectually curious” classroom and the students’ desire to interact with

See Dean on page 2

U.S. National Team star Alexi Lalas signs autographs before Wednesday's match with Moldova.

NUMBER 25

Photo by Amy Laukkanen

World Cup soccer visits Davidson

By Will Cobb

The match between the United States and Moldova will be recorded in the books as an exhibition, but a more
appropriate word to describe the game would be clinic. After enduring an ugly 1-1 tie the previous Saturday, the United
States made the right adjustments and pounded their inferior opponent 3-0. The win ended a three-month winless stretch dating back
to a 2-1 victory over Norway on January 15 and improved the U.S.’s 1994 record to 2-2-7.

The match highlighted the return of University of Virginia star Claudio Reyna to Davidson since the early-December Final Four. Though
spectators have watched him lead the Cavaliers to National Championships the past two years, it was not until Monday that
they got to see him play at his full potential. Making his first career start for the U.S. National team,
Reyna showed everyone why he not only deserves to be selected to the 22-man roster for the World Cup, but
that he is a strong candidate for a starting position. Capping a beautiful performance, Reyna notched his first international goal
when he scored off a pass from midfielder Mike Burns with just over 15 minutes remaining in the game.

“I was a little nervous this morning with this being my first start. The whole thing was very special and
I was glad to get the goal. Bora [Milutinovic - head coach] told me just to play simple and that
gave me a lot of confidence,” said Reyna.

The United States struck early when, just three minutes into the match, forward Frank Klopas blasted a shot to the
top left corner of the goal from 25 yards out to put America up 1-0. The defense shut down the
Moldova attack, holding their opposition to just three shots on goal. The only serious threat for Moldova came just 12
minutes into the match when their striker broke free from the left side of the field for

See World on page 5

Photo by Robert Ramsay

Sophomore Rion Smith basks in the sun between Belk and the Commons. In the past few weeks, many students have
taken advantage of the exhilarating spring weather to throw on shorts, Tevas, and sunglasses, and do some frolicking.

Trustees vote to revise Statement

By Jay Jennings

On Friday, the Board of Trustees voted to adopt the changes to the Statement of Purpose recommended by a committee
set up to study the Statement. These changes make the Statement more representative of the diversity on the Davidson campus.

A major change can be seen in the second paragraph of the new Statement of Purpose, which now reads, “The
loyalty of the College thus extends beyond the Christian community to the whole human community and necessarily includes an openness
to and respect for the world’s various religious traditions.” Although Davidson remains committed to the ideals and precepts of the
Christian faith, the changes in the Statement strive to express a greater sense of inclusiveness.

In another motion, the Trustees decided to study the possibility of changing the college's requirement that Trustees be active members
of a Christian church. Many Board members feel that Davidson could be well served by Trustees who are non-Christians and
asked for a study of this requirement.

Dr. Sandy McKelway, a member of the committee, believes the new Statement of Purpose “points out the way to a
new sense of the meaning of the church’s relationship to the College,” which could make the study of the Trustees’
requirements easier. The new sense of the church could be applied to policies in the Trustee By-Laws and college constitution,
such as those concerning religion teachers and the Office of the President. Currently, the college cannot have a Jewish religion
teacher, and the president must be an active member of Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

McKelway believes the changes in the

See 1990s on page 2

THIS WEEK

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

Terry retires

In honor of Dean Terry, the Davidsonian celebrates three decades of service.

SPECIAL 10-11

Senior farewells

Columnists Stephan Faller, Nathan Seay, Rob King, Chris Frampton, and Susan Beale write their last words.

OPINIONS 7

Ed's exhibition

The last of the three senior studio art major exhibits went up in the VAC on Sunday.

ARTS & LIVING 13

See Phuong run

Men's and Women's track, tennis, and Women's lacrosse finish their seasons.

SPORTS 17
