THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1994

New sports courts may be named for students

By Mary Laura Moretz

The idea to name the remaining nameless apartment buildings after senior raffle winners failed, but a similar proposal has taken
its place. Senior Class President B. J. Rudell and Director of the Campaign Jamie May hope to implement the raffle
plan instead with the new sports courts to be built behind Martin Court Building F.

Rudell and May reached this compromise after discussing the issue last week. May explains: “Finding donors for these buildings is
one of the highest priorities of the campaign right now. The sports court area is a better idea because it’s
not something that we would ordinarily seek donor support for.”

Rudell says, “I understand exactly what he’s saying. It could also look a little frivolous to name a building after
a random senior when we place such importance on the gifts from our bigger donors.”

Hoping for the cooperation of the Physical Plant, Rudell suggests placing a small sign by the court area with the
name of the senior who wins the raffle and the amount of money raised for charity by the event. Each
senior class, Rudell explains, could hold a similar contest so that the fundraiser would become an annual event. The sign
would be repainted every year.

“We hope to have found donors for the apartment buildings in the next several months before the Campaign comes to
an end,” May says, “but this is a perfect solution. It’s wonderful that the students are motivated to accomplish something
this good for class philanthropy.”

Rudell hopes that the combination of the enthusiasm for the raffle and the need for the new courts will make
both projects proceed faster. He says, “I think these ideas can work in tandem to encourage each other.”

Fall Convocation

PBS continued from page 1

tional leadership society, recognized sixteen new members during the fall convocation. From the class of 1995, Alexander Herd Crumbley, Susan
Lynn Fisher, Arthur Lee Gaston, Matthew Grove Melton, Rachel Claire Newcomb, Jonathan Thaddeus Reece, Mark Andrew Reilly, Joseph David Rogers,
Eric Brien Rosenbach, Patrick Burton White, and Rachel Doryce Worlds.

From the Class of 1996, James Davidson Byassee, Emily Louise Davis, Latasha Ann Jenkins, Sarah Elizabeth Lindsay, and Nicholas David
Troiano were inducted.

The Thomas Jefferson Award was given to Professor Gail McMurray Gibson of the English department.

Professor Robert David Kaylor, Chair of the Religion Department, received the James Sprunt Professorship.

The ceremony ended with the conferring of Honorary Doctor of Laws Degree on 1957 Davidson graduate James Knox Batten.

Parents’ weekend comes, goes

Rents continued from page 1

quality time with loved ones came to a close. Junior Krisy Ford says, “Even though my parents couldn’t come, it
was still an enjoyable weekend because I was able to meet many of my friends’ parents.”

Only four more issues of The Davidsonian this fall.

Photo by Brooke McRae

CAMPUS CRIME

October 1
Bicycle larceny at Acres dorm. Bicycle valued at $600.
October 24
Cassette tapes, sunglasses, stereo face plate taken from car in Baker lot at estimated cost $475.00
October 27
Subject arrested and taken to Mecklenburg county jail for two counts of larceny. Money was taken from two offices in
the student union.

-Compiled by Mary Clare Jalonick

The Davidsonian wants you!

We are looking for organized, intelligent, dedicated, hard-working individuals to assist us in editorial capacities for the spring semester. There
are many positions available, and there is no experience necessary.

In addition, we are seeking an economically-minded or business-oriented person to serve as Business Manager beginning in the spring semester.

Call Leigh, Alex, or Casey if you are interested (2148).

DAVINO'S IS THE PERFECT PLACE FOR GROUPS!

Group Specials (10 or more) Price (per person)
• Spaghetti with Marinara Sauce $5.00
• Chicken Parmesan $6.50
• Lasagna $6.50
• All specials include bread, salad, and drinks.

OR Order 5 or more 16 inch, one topping pizzas for only $6.00 apiece!

STUDENTS DON'T FORGET!
Wednesday night is student night:
• $3.50 pitchers of beer
• $4.75 all you can eat pizza

Call Steve for specials information and reservations.

892-4794

CHILE RISTRAS

Exit 28 into Cornelius. Located on Liverpool Parkway across from Movies at the Lake.

Come enjoy Chile Ristras appetizers, succulent steaks, fabulous fajitas, Mexican pizza, and extravagant desserts. Cappuccino and espresso are also served.

• Monday - Friday: FREE BUFFET from 5 pm - 6:30 pm.
• Wednesday nights: $11 pitchers of House Margaritas or Long Island Iced Tea
