THE DAVIDSONIAN

"This World is not Conclusion. A species stands beyond - Invisible, as Music - But positive, as sound -."
--Emily Dickinson

When we consider that we might still exist after death, the place that we imagine ourselves going to seems somehow
less real than this world. We conjure up an image of a somewhat faded, unrealistic state of being. In “heaven,”
we commonly think, we just sit around and don’t have any troubles. Ironically, the adjectives “faded” and “unrealistic” are ones
that I would apply to our present existence. The mystery that lies on the other side of death, which we
call eternal life, holds what is real. This eternal life has nothing to do with time. It has everything to
do with reality. In fact, we should not focus on the word “eternal,” but the word “life.” This Life is
the only reality. This eternal Life is the Holy Spirit that filled Christ at his baptism. The same Spirit offers
that life to us. However, we are unable to experience it fully as long as we are living in this
world. Where we are living now are the shadowlands. Our world is a great shadow of the real life to
come. What, then, must that world be like? Imagine a chair and its characteristics of color, texture, and dimension. Then
think of that chair’s shadow; how plain, empty, and boring the shadow is compared to the object itself. In the
same way, our “lives” fade in comparison to real life. Now, imagine that every once in a while, a drop
of the chair fell into its shadow, and the light particles in the shadow were shown their source of being.
They’d be blown away by its mystery. They’d be fascinated by it and want to know it again. But more
importantly, they would realize their dependence on it for their own existence. We are trapped in this world like little
light particles in the realm of a shadow, and we belong to a different world. No wonder we feel empty,
useless, and out of place at the core of our hearts. Our “lives,” without eternal life, are virtual unreality. C.S.
Lewis said that to walk out of God’s will is to walk nowhere. Here, Lewis has gone to the extent
of saying that this life of shadows does not really exist. If we are not “alive unto God” (Romans 6:9)
then we are not alive at all; we are walking in nothingness. Similarly, William James said, “Natural good is not
simply insufficient in amount and transient, there lurks a falsity in its very being.” He, too, is recognizing a nihilism
in any action or feeling that is derived from our own nature. James calls “natural good” what we know as
“good” here in the shadowlands. Anything truly good is of God. The same relates to all that is good: love,
peace, joy. Alone, we can only know the shadows of these things. Real love and real happiness, however, are available
to us now through the Holy Spirit. In the world to come we will experience them in fullness. In other
words, we are not now living in the fullness of life, though we can know true life from time to
time. Do you remember the “amazing grace” that “...will lead me home”? “Home” is where there exists the fullness of
eternal life. We can tell when we are not there by the authentic homesickness we feel without it. So often
people question the meaning of life, when Life itself is what they are missing. People filled with true life would
never question their purpose. Too great is the joy of being at home.

Equal rights means equal opportunity.

The rich get rich fast because they have capital at risk. In hard economic times they get poor pretty damn
fast, also. I’m sorry, but a seasoned investor’s mutual fund will multiply a lot faster than the funds of a
guy in the subway playing the saxophone for spare change. As long as both of their situations improve, we should
be satisfied. And it takes time for that. Kreiling, proposing socialized housing, talks about how we already have nationalized education
and transportation, two more of her “human rights,” and are on the verge of socialized medicine. How is the public
school system, Kim? Would we want to pattern anything after the great bastion of efficiency we call public transportation? Why
is every other country in the whole world moving its economy away from socialism and toward the free market, yet
knee-jerk compassionists and Clinton-style liberals buck the trend? We have a word for this: insanity. But here comes the big
one: Kreiling says that we should rescue the homeless from an “undesirable environment” and “subsidize houses of the homeowners' choice.”
First of all, there is no such thing as a “homeowner” if government subsidizes and provides the housing, and secondly,
why should taxpayers pay for homeless people getting the choice of the real estate litter? If Homeless Joe says he
wants to move into a Beverly Hills mansion, we would all now be obliged, according to Kim, to buy it
for him. This is Frampton-style lunacy, pure and simple. Kreiling ends her treatise saying that her plan would be a
“move in the direction of justice and equality.” Justice, to me, means fairness, getting what you pay for, working towards
a goal and achieving it. How is it just to transplant a homeless person undeservedly into the house of their
dreams? Or do they deserve it because they are poor? Also, when we say equality, we mean equal rights. We
do not justify equal results, merely equal opportunity. Kreiling is confused here. Kreiling’s subsidies would end as soon as our
homeless friends are “self-sufficient.” How can they become self-sufficient without a job? They wouldn’t be homeless if they had one.Thus
far, an unsuccessful person moving into a castle will not really help the person succeed. That is why the movie
"Trading Places" is so ironic and hilarious. Readers, look back a week and see, in black and white, the evil
we defeated in the Cold War. Take a closer look at a philosophy of mediocrity, an ideology which would be
happy and satisfied if the gap between rich and poor were narrowed so that everyone would be poor, and nobody
succeeded. Look at this and reread my column from last week about how we will all be slaves of the
government if we do not resist this diseased theory of collective economics. We need not give the poor bread, but
rather teach them to bake. In this, a meddling government (which is how many homeless would view Kreiling) has no
part.

Ken

Face to face with death

Death. To most people, especially to those of us still in our tender youth, this word bears no real significance.
Death merely represents some abstract, mysterious idea that seems far removed from our daily lives. It’s all part of the
invincible “it can’t happen to me” attitude of post-adolescents. Except for those who have seen the face of death.

Except for me this past weekend. We’re talking up close and personal. This unexpected encounter took place on a Davidson
Outdoors excursion to Grindstaff Cave. Spelunking was something I’d always wanted to do, but didn’t really know much about. In
my mind, the trip seemed harmless. Big caverns, some stooping, maybe a bit of crawling. How loud can you say
WRONG?! Suffice it to say, what lay ahead of me was seven hours of subterranean testing of the will. I
may as well have been Indiana Jones in the Temple of Doom. Heck, I spent more time on my belly
slithering through muddy water in the first hour than Indy did in all three of his movies.

Anyway, my first indication that this trip was surely going to exceed my initial thoughts occurred only a hundred yards
into the cave. The path seemed to drop abruptly off into a 50-foot chasm. That was a pretty short trip,
I’m thinking. Definitely not worth the 20 dollar fee. I slipped... BANG!! Then it hit me. If I slip, I
die. It’s as simple as that. One false move and I’m a goner. At this moment, I saw the face
of death. Gazing right into its eyes, I realized what the face of death was really about. I had unveiled
the mystery. The face of death was courage. It’s as if death gave me a look at himself and said,
“I’ll take you if you want, but I know you ain’t ready yet, so don’t make it easy for me.”
Then I stared him down and did what I had to do. I crossed the ledge and death departed, at
least until a few hundred yards further and the next challenge. Strange thing is, he wasn’t nearly as frightening after
I had made a personal acquaintance with the Big D and flew it the proverbial bird.

Though it’s not exactly something one seeks out, confronting the face of death is definitely an exhilarating and maturing experience.
In a way, perhaps better than any other, it shows us the courage that each one of us possesses and
what we can achieve with that courage driving us onward.

We may be smart, but we are not observant.

Gross Guy continued from page 7

I dare everyone on this campus to try my experiment for themselves. You don’t have to go for an entire
week. I realize that there are people out there who worry about personal hygiene and other wastes of time such
as that. But just try it for a couple of days. See if you can get away with it. Who
knows? You may just have lots of fun.

The result of my experiment has ramifications throughout the strangest of strangers. Can you imagine students walking everywhere with books
in front of them? Not only may they fall to their death in any of the unmarked holes around campus,
but it’s downright depressing. I dare everyone on this campus to try my experiment for themselves. You don’t have to
go for an entire week. I realize that there are people out there who worry about personal hygiene and other
wastes of time such as that. But just try it for a couple of days. See if you can get
away with it. Who knows? You may just have lots of fun.

The chess club deserves attention and support.

Rook continued from page 6

The members of the Chess Club justly acknowledge The Davidsonian’s editors’ final authority to decide what to publish and what
not to, and all that we desire is to see that this privilege is exercised evenhandedly and with unprejudiced consideration
of all. This ancient game does, in fact, have a future at Davidson, thanks to the enthusiasm, energy, and dedication
of the Chess Club’s members, who in less than a year marched from newcomers to national champions, and thus created
one of the best college chess teams. In view of all that is mentioned above, we politely ask for your
genuine support and understanding of our just cause.

Davidson’s atmosphere has always been one that successfully combines academic excellence with a supportive and friendly climate of relationships. Please
help us make the noble game of chess an enduring symbol of both.

Sincerely,
Doitch Krasev
