William Holt Terry

MONDAY, APRIL 25, 1994

In Davidson's history, no one has served in the Dean's office longer than our own Dean Terry, who retires this spring after a 23-year tenure. Dean Terry has seen Davidson rise to national prominence, and, by virtue of his commitment to Davidson's values and to its excellence, has been instrumental in balancing the college's history with its liberalization. We should all thank Dean Terry for leaving our college the way he has. The changes that Davidson has experienced during his time here, including coeducation and integration, have radically altered Davidson's make-up and even threatened its stability. His ability to help the college remain stable while keeping in mind his role as student advocate marks not only a devotion to the college but a certain political genius of which few could boast. Dean Terry has found in Davidson College a family which, in many ways, he has nurtured to its present prosperity. As he leaves his office, he leaves us with the task of carrying on the traditions of good sense, love of college, and, above all, commitment to family. This is his legacy and our responsibility.

- the editors

The young Dean Terry was not received as warmly as he is being bid farewell. His first day on the job, the SOB (Sons of Basement Belk) Moving Company left him furniture-less and wary of the next chapter in his Davidson career.

Graduates from Durham High School, gets the heck away from Duke, enrolls as a freshman at Davidson College, and becomes a Sig Ep. Big year.

William Holt Terry is born to Mr. and Mrs. William S. Terry of Durham, NC, bald as a cue ball.

Takes a year off from seminary, returns to Davidson as YMCA Secretary.

Graduates from Davidson, enrolls at Union Seminary in Richmond, VA.

Becomes minister at Acme Presbyterian Church in Riegelwood, NC.

Returns to Davidson once again, this time as chaplain.

1932

1950

1954

1955

1958

1962

From the Archives

The man, the myth, the legend

By Towner Blackstock

“Ah, Dean Terry,” exclaimed a lanky freshman, meeting the Dean for the first time at the freshman orientation picnic. “The man, the myth, and the legend!” Dr. Kuykendall, standing a few yards away, nearly collapsed in hysterics. The Dean’s eyebrows, already raised high, shot up a few more inches into his brow. My father just sort of stood there while my mother snickered. But everyone understood.

When my dad, himself a freshman, arrived on campus in the fall of ‘62, he did not realize that a quiet giant had also arrived with his class. He could not possibly have known that by the time his son entered Davidson nearly thirty years later, William Holt Terry, quiet college chaplain, would have left his mark on all aspects of the college, indeed upon the lives of thousands of Davidsonians. In many ways, Will Terry deserves the title of legend, for he has already become something of a myth. Who ever said Will didn’t want women at Davidson?

Funny thing, how we forget that back in 1950, Dean Terry arrived, like each of us, as a bewildered freshman. He hailed from Durham. History either found a niche in his heart or proved easy enough, for he made it his major. However, Terry’s interests ranged farther than just his studies. He joined a fraternity, served as assistant editor for the yearbook, and served on the YMCA cabinet. The Eumanean Literary Society saw fit to make him vice president and later president.President and gave him the honorable position of Chief Commencement Marshall. He also served on the Elections Board and on the Honorary Fraternity Council. His prominence in his class earned him ODK honors, plus a mention in Who’s Who among Students in American Universities and Colleges. For those of you who feel guilty about returning to Davidson for a year after you graduate, don’t worry. Will Terry did it, too. He spent 1955 as YMCA secretary before leaving Davidson to return to Union Seminary in Virginia. Amazing how many Davidsonians find refuge there; just a few years later, John Kuykendall would attend the same seminary. But Will eventually found his way back home to Davidson, arriving in the fall of ‘62 with my dad and a lot of other goofy freshmen. Just as my father and his classmates grew up, so did Reverend Terry, becoming head minister of DCPC just a few years later. Notice the trends here; DCPC’s current building was completed in ‘52 when he was an undergrad. One wonders if he, like so many of his classmates, scratched his name into the copper steeple in the days before they hoisted it up. Students liked Will Terry; fraternities invited him down for dinner, students would crash on his couch sometimes. He reminisces about walking downstairs and not knowing who he would find in his living room. The door was always open, just like his heart. Will Terry has always been the students’ friend. But with the happiness, there were clouds. Will Terry also recalls students crowded around his television, watching the reports of the Cambodian bombings. Davidson, like the world around it, lost some of its perceived innocence. A new time of change and turmoil began. In the midst of it all, The Davidsonian didn’t even take the space to report Will Terry had become the new Dean of Students. You know the rest of the story. 23 years of service as the students’ friend, working Davidson through some rigorous changes, most of which he could only react to. No one who knows him is surprised that after so much change, Will Terry is ready to move on. But everyone who loves him hates to see the man who has bridged three generations of Davidson leave our school. Thus has the man become both myth and legend. Apparently, the young Terry had a really good toupee.

Past and Future
By Perry H. Biddle
Class of 1954

Will Terry embodies the best of Davidson’s values and personal qualities. He has, through the years, given his whole life to Davidson, as Y Secretary, Chaplain of the College, minister of the church, and, in recent years, as Dean of Students. Friends who know Will kid him about being “married to Davidson.” I think all will agree that it has been a happy marriage, and as he leaves his post to live in retirement in Davidson, it will not be a loss but a redirection of his love for Davidson in other channels. Will’s ministry has been primarily to young adults in their formative years at Davidson College. He has inspired many students, has redirected the sheep gone astray, and has modeled good communicative skills in relationships and over issues that could have been destructive otherwise. As a classmate of Will’s, I recall him as a very likable person, who enjoyed sports and activities on campus. Few of us dreamed that he would become Dean, but, then, anything can happen.