6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

This Week in Washington

Welfare reform plans circulate

By Brett Marston

President Clinton’s welfare reform plan may not appear by the end of this April as expected, but the welfare debate
in Congress has already begun. Welfare reform is in the cards for the upcoming years. A poll conducted by the
National Opinion Research Center suggests that more than half of adult Americans believe that we are spending too much money
on welfare. Sixteen percent of those polled replied that we are spending too little, and a quarter held that we
are spending “about the right amount.”

Last fall, almost all of the 175 House Republicans signed on to a welfare reform plan introduced by Minority Leader
Robert H. Michel from Illinois. This plan, HR 3500, would force welfare recipients to find jobs within two years after
their first benefits check, limit spending on certain anti-poverty programs, and terminate benefits to most non-citizens. Two Republican welfare reform
bills are also circulating in the Senate. One is very similar to Michel’s bill, and the other seeks to give
more power to the states to regulate welfare funding as they please.

In his State of the Union Address this past February, President Clinton outlined the thrust of his welfare reform plan,
which focuses on three areas: “work,” “responsibility,” and “strong families.” A White House task force issued a draft last winter
which revealed the policy implications of these three ideals. They are the following: increased funding for job training programs, two-year
limits for welfare benefits, and greater effort to catch child support delinquents. Further, the draft seeks to limit benefits for
additional children born to single mothers. “People who bring children into this world cannot and must not walk away from
them,” the President said somewhat ominously last February.

Democrats in Congress are divided on the issue of welfare reform. One group of 89 liberals signed a letter to
President Clinton last November, claiming that the idea of withdrawing support for additional children tries “to punish certain behavior, hurt
needy families, and do nothing to help them escape poverty.” (quoted in the National Journal) Another group, called the Mainstream
Forum and made up of moderate Democrats, supports the President’s ideas but has become impatient waiting for a proposal from
him to appear. A third group, the Congressional Black Caucus, opposes cuts in anti-poverty programs. Last month in the National
Journal, District of Columbia Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton expressed a concern many Democrats share: “We have got to engage this
debate before welfare reform runs so far to the right that we are unable to catch up with it.”

Sources: Congressional Digest (4/2/94) and the National Journal (3/5/94). See also three articles on social policy and single motherhood in
the spring issue of Dissent.

The Dean Rusk Program

Rwanda: Battle for Kigali continues

By Zik Joseph

Amidst the latest bloodletting in Rwanda, the battle for the capital city of Kigali continues. By Friday morning the city
appeared to be divided into several quarters, with part of it in the hands of government soldiers and another part
under the control of Rwanda Patriotic Front rebels. The rebels are determined to take power and have reiterated their position
not to participate in any last-minute peace talks with the interim government.

Over 200,000 people (about a tenth of the population of Kigali) have been killed in twelve days of tribal bloodletting.
The scenes of cruelty bring home the savagery of the fighting in the small central African republic, whose history is
one of blind tribal animosity between the Hutus and the minority Tutsi. The bloodletting followed the April 6th assassination of
Rwanda’s president Juvenal Habyarimana and his counterpart Cyprien Ntaryamira from neighboring Burundi. The two were on their way home from
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, when their plane was gunned down by rocket fire as it attempted to land at the
airport in Kigali. No details have emerged as to who was responsible for the attack, but the event sparked off
the current round of carnage in a country that has been under tension since the invasion of rebels from neighboring
Uganda in October 1990.

The rebels, who are under the leadership of Paul Kagame, mainly consist of the minority Tutsi. The Tutsi have lived
in exile for several years after fleeing uprisings by the Hutus in 1959. Their attempts to take control of Kigali
three and a half years ago fell short when then-leader Rwigyema was murdered by one of his top aides a
few miles from the capital. Ever since then, the Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF) rebels have waged guerrilla warfare. In 1993,
a peace accord was achieved in Arusha, Tanzania. According to this peace pact, abroad government would be established including members
of the RPF, and thousands of refugees were to be allowed to return home and the rebel forces incorporated into
the national military. Shortly after this, a 2500-strong UN observer mission was deployed in Rwanda to monitor the ceasefire on
the northern battle front and oversee a transition to multi-party elections in 1995. Now the peace accord is in tatters.

ATTENTION SENIORS!!!
Let's try to achieve our 100% participation goal. Only one week left to pledge for this year. Don't miss the
chance to participate.

It is clear that the RPF rebels will eventually take over, but the damage inflicted is irreparable. The massive influx
of refugees into neighboring countries such as Uganda, Zaire, and Tanzania gives these countries a great deal of difficulty, not
only in terms of food and shelter for the refugees, but also in terms of weak security at the borders.
The European Union has sent $649,000 worth of surgical and medical equipment to Rwanda through Médecins Sans Frontières to help
with the wounded as they attempt to flee the beleaguered city. Rebel-held radio has promised to let residents know as
soon as the RPF takes over Kigali. The RPF has indicated that they will rule the country through consensus until
the threat of ethnic violence has been removed. For now, rocket and artillery fire continues to be heard in the
streets of Kigali.

MONDAY, APRIL 18, 1994

Perspective NOTES

Cobain defines a generation
Kurt Cobain’s self-destruction speaks as much about Generation X as his gritty grunge. Cobain lived the stereotypical Xer life. He
was the victim of a broken home at age 10. He was later passed between relatives, and even lived under
a bridge for a time. He was born too late for rock’s heyday, but started a punk-influenced band anyway. He
medicated himself with drugs, ostensibly to treat stomach pain. Self-destruction is to Generation X what playing chicken was to '50s
rockers, what taking hard-core drugs was to flower children. It’s the ultimate rebellion in a world of youth culture where
the forms of rebellion have been exhausted. At the same time, it can be the only way out of a
life made crueler by the pressures and pessimism of modern-day America. The Xers’ deck is stacked with low-paying jobs, sharper
competition, and a world of beer-commercial expectations. The self-defeatist Xer finds form in the cult film “Slacker,” in Bart Simpson,
and in boy geniuses Beavis and Butt-head.
-from the Observer’s Friday, April 15 issue

Why I like Clinton
We never dated. I never even had a crush on her. I merely thought she was pretty. My friends, though,
wondered if I’d ever taken a close look at her hair, at the odd thing she did with her eyes,
at the people she hung around with, at the speck of spinach that once was stuck to her teeth. If
I found her charming, my friends found her too eager to please. If I saw her as willing to stick
to her guns, my friends thought she was stubborn. I’d mention her studiousness in class, and my friends would smirk
and rub the back of their hands against their noses. I never figured out why they insisted on seeing her
in such a negative light. I only know that pretty soon, I didn’t think she was all that pretty. Before
my friends talk me out of it, I want to say I think Bill Clinton is looking pretty good. He’s
not perfect by any means, and his has not been a perfect presidency. But unlike my friends in the media
and out—and certainly unlike his political enemies—I think he hasn’t been bad.
-from the Chicago Tribune, Monday, April 11

Why the court needs a liberal
This court has no ideological breadth. That's unfortunate, because the finest moments of the modern court have come when the
justices have been at each other's throats, conservatives and liberals locked in principled debate. The White House has made it
clear that the quality it prizes in a nominee is confirmability. Yet Bill Clinton, the former law professor, ought to
know better. He should pick an unabashed liberal for the court. Not out of political calculation—actually, it would cost him—but
because it would enhance the court's prestige for the long term. The Supreme Court's history suggests that an ideological cat
fight is precisely what this soporific court needs. The best work can come from the most contentious relationships.
-from the April 18 issue of Newsweek

HUGE PACK SALE!
30-40% off Select Packs by Camp Trails and Lowe Alpine

OUTDOORS
Come to our Boat Demo on May 7 - call for details!
Shops on the Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn.
