THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

This Week in Washington

The Whitewater scandal continues

By Brett Marston

On Friday, independent counsel Robert B. Fiske, Jr. ordered top administration officials to appear before a federal grand jury which
is investigating various criminal charges in connection with the failed Madison Guaranty Savings and Loan. Further, White House Counsel Bernard
Nussbaum resigned on Saturday, denying that he had done anything wrong, but claiming that the burgeoning scandal makes it impossible
for him to fulfill the duties of his job. Nussbaum’s resignation comes as a response to recent charges that he
violated ethical standards by meeting with Treasury Department officials to discuss a confidential federal investigation into the Madison Guaranty S&L.
After the suicide of Clinton’s friend and White House aide Vincent W. Foster, Jr. last July, Nussbaum came under fire
for withholding Foster’s papers from federal investigators.

Here are a few of the basics in this confusing and complicated story:

* In 1978, Bill and Hillary Clinton and their friends James and Susan McDougal created the Whitewater Development Corporation and
bought land along the White River. By all accounts a shady character, James McDougal is the former owner of the
Madison Guaranty S&L, which cost taxpayers around $50 million when it went bankrupt in 1989.

* Critics charge that Clinton used his political influence on McDougal’s behalf and that McDougal “paid” Clinton by loaning him
and Hillary money through Madison and other banks which he owned, as well as by paying her law firm a
$2,000 retainer. In an interview with the Los Angeles Times (quoted in the American Spectator), McDougal claims, “I hired Hillary
because Bill came in whimpering they needed [financial] help.” White House aides have denied McDougal’s claim.

* In 1985, Clinton appointed Beverly Bassett, another of McDougal’s lawyers, as Arkansas securities commissioner, who, among other things, is
in charge of keeping tabs on S&Ls. Apparently, Bassett did not keep a close watch on Madison, and she approved
several Madison ventures which upon closer investigation appear questionable. Further, Arkansas municipal judge David Hale, himself facing charges of financial
wrongdoing, contends that Clinton pressured him in 1986 to make a loan of $300,000 through his investment firm to help
out McDougal, who was facing a federal audit. “If Hale is telling the truth,” writes Lynn Chu in the March
edition of Commentary, “Fiske will have to decide whether Clinton’s request might constitute criminal solicitation and extortion.”

* Allegations have also been raised that McDougal took money from Madison investors without their consent and contributed it to
Clinton’s gubernatorial campaign in 1985. Other charges against the Clintons include that they lied on their tax returns by claiming
larger deductions than those to which they were entitled.

Fiske will need quite some time to untangle this mess. In the meantime, however, it is already clear that Whitewater
has hurt Clinton’s reputation, and that it provides some handy ammunition for his political opponents.

Sources: James R. Adams, “Beyond Whitewater,” The American Spectator, Feb., 1994; Lynn Chu, “What Did the Clintons Know & When
Did They Know It?” Commentary, March 1994; “Raw Nerves and Tax Returns,” Time, Feb. 14, 1994; The New York Times
and the Charlotte Observer.

MONDAY, MARCH 7, 1994

ELSEWHERE

Perspective NOTES

Whining American children

What is missing from all of the bravado, brinkmanship, sound-bytng, and table-pounding emanating from Tokyo and Washington over trade imbalances
is a sober look at the facts. When American car makers don’t even put the steering wheel on the right
side of the car for Japanese drivers and then complain that their automobiles are being blocked, one can see that,
at times, to Japanese ears, it seems that Americans are acting like whining children. In the interests of free trade
and to protect the soaring yen, which would create long-term problems for Japan’s own exports, Japanese Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa
should do all he can to let more American cars in. The result will probably be that the American cars
get wiped out in the market and there will no longer be any reason for American griping.

- reprinted from the Arab News, Jiddah, Saudi Arabia, in the Chicago Tribune, Saturday, Feb. 26.

Cuffed and stuffed for ditching school

Those school officials in Philadelphia don’t mess around with anyone playing hooky. Under a new policy, police will pick up
truants, search them and putthem in handcuffs before dragging them down to one of the truancy centers in schools around
the city. During the hours that classes are in session, authorities will try to round up stray youths in public
places and take them to truancy centers, where school counselors will try to help find ways to keep them in
school. Authorities say handcuffing truants taken into custody is standard procedure, but it is a practice that has generated understandable
protest. - St. Louis, Saturday, Feb. 26.

Dean Rusk Program

Britons debate future of royal family
By Meredith Strong

The question of whether the tradition of the British Royal Family should carry on would have been political heresy not
that long ago. However, the future of the British monarchy is in debate nowadays. The Royal Family has been a
symbol of Britain’s glorious past and its present exceptionality, and today many Britons think it should be abolished altogether. The
reason for this question is a result of the recent scandalous activities involving members of the royal family which have
greatly damaged their reputations. For the first time, the scandals have opened serious discussion of constitutional issues centering on the
rights and prerogatives of the monarch. Although, there is little doubt that the media, and especially the tabloids, have had
something to do with this disillusionment.

It isn’t worth it to the British taxpayers to keep the Royal Family going for a sum of over $15
million a year in revenue. The queen only just began to pay income taxes in April of 1993. However, she
is still one of the richest women in the world. Young people today are realizing this, so it is likely
that we will see some parliamentary change in the near future. Seventeen percent of the population of the United Kingdom
believe they would be better off without the Queen. Yet nothing boosts newspaper sales all over the world more than
a new scandal involving the Princes and Princesses of the House of Windsor. Not to mention the royal family being
one of England’s biggest tourist attractions, especially for Americans.

The question of whether or not Prince Charles, heir to the throne, should become king is, of course, a favorite
topic of debate. After all, the King of England is the spiritual head of the Church of England, the face
on currency and stamps, the convener of Parliament, and the role model for families all over Britain. The debate is
whether Charles, who has had an alleged extramarital affair with Miss Camilla Parker Bowles, can preside as “defender of the
faith” when he succeeds his mother to the throne. And if he does this, will Diana become queen? Should he
and Diana divorce, he can still attain the throne. There is also the question of whether the monarch is disuniting
the nation by being the head of only the Anglican denomination and none others in England’s ecumenical society.

Many think the royal family should skip a generation and put Charles’ son, William, on the throne when Elizabeth II
ceases to be queen. But even then William, like many of us, is a product of separated parents and this
could possibly have an effect on his ability to lead the nation. The British are a strange lot. Their newspapers
and television are filled with gossip and assertions about the Royal Family and they give much less attention to their
Prime Minister, John Major. In my opinion, five years debating the monarchy would be five wasted years. Finally, as their
national anthem now goes, in the future God may no longer be able to save the gracious noble queen.

COMING SOON...
Davidson College Health and Wellness week: March 14-17. If your organization would like to sponsor an activity or event, contact
the Health and Wellness Committee at #2451, Art Flagg.

The Philadelphia Urban Semester Program provides first-rate academic internships and courses for Davidson students and students from other selected colleges
each semester. Steve Brooks, Director of the Program, will conduct a general informational meeting on the program Thursday, March 10,
in the Morrison Room of the College Union at 4:00 P.M.

VERMONT'S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT
507 Providence Rd. * 333-1003
The Arboretum * 543-8333
202 S. Main St. * Davidson * 892-0604
