THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 1994

New Union board includes

By Rachel Dunifon and Mandy Curtis

After several candidates dropped out of the election, Nat May, Phoebe Dean, and Rosie Molinary will take over the college
Union board. Junior May will be the new president, while junior Phoebe Dean will be the co-curricular vice-president and sophomore
Rosie Molinary will act as social vice-president.

According to current Union President Merrill Earnest, the Union’s new leaders have the opportunity “to determine the direction of the
Union.” With a greater number of Davidson students remaining socially independent, Earnest says, the Union must ensure that it continues
to work to meet the needs of Davidson’s changing student body.

The Union’s night manager, Meg Jones, explains that the co-curricular council of the Union coordinates events such as solidarity week,
artist series, cultural events, literary arts, and speakers. The social council focuses on Davidson’s big weekends, such as Midwinters, as
well as concerts and other performances.

May, who ran uncontested for the presidency, hopes to find a board as good as the existing board for the
'93 year. "We want to get a good diverse group of people," he says. As president, May plans to continue
the many programs that started this past year. May hopes to also "bring the Union down the hill" by creating
an Outpost committee. Says May: "I think people are starting to see the Union as a more visible aspect; as
something enjoyable. I hope we can use the Union to bring faculty, staff, and students together in a place where
they can interact comfortably in a non-academic setting."

Phoebe Dean agrees with May in that they are looking "to establish a really good Union board for the coming
year." According to Dean, the Union board would like to continue the co-sponsored events with the SGA and Patterson Court.
Dean says, "I'd like to make the programs more accessible and appealing to a larger percentage of the student body."

Other offices facing re-election are those of defense advisor and student solicitor. Candidates for each of these offices are rising
seniors, must run as a pair, and are not permitted to campaign for election. Candidates for defense advisor are: Matt
Hunoval and Lorie Logan, Marty O’Brien and Malloy Evans, Geoff Graham and Alan Stump, Scott Hile and Catherine Grimmell, Ashlyn
Dannelly and Andrea Short, and Phil Lisi and Andrew Smitherman. Candidates for student solicitor are: Arthur Gaston and Alex Crumbley,
and Sean Callahan and Jay Jennings.

According to Honor Council Secretary Sally Stone, both the student solicitors and defense advisors “work together to uphold the Honor
Code.” The student solicitors do this by investigating possible Honor Code violations and presenting their findings to the Dean of
Students, who determines whether or not a trial is necessary. When a violation does lead to a trial, the defense
advisors work with the defendant.

Panel probes academy cheating

ANNAPOLIS, MD (CPS)--Three retired admirals will investigate a cheating scandal at the U.S. Naval Academy that could involve a large
number of disciplinary cases against graduating seniors. A year-long investigation found that some midshipmen had advance access to an electrical
engineering test that was administered to 700 students on December 14, 1992.

“We don’t know the numbers or how the exam was comprised,” said Naval Academy spokeswoman Karen Myers. “We expect there
to be a significant number of students. They are all graduating seniors, and we are working on a process to
hear all the cases to determine if individuals did commit a violation.”

Three retired flag officers are on the review panel, and they will examine files on all the cases and recommend
how they should be handled. If violations are not too serious, they can recommend some punishment short of dismissal. In
more serious cases, students could face criminal charges and expulsion.

The New York Times reported in early January that 125 midshipmen will be implicated, but officials at the Naval Academy
could not verify that number. An initial investigation last year listed 28 midshipmen who had access to the exam, and
all but six were cleared. However, on May 3, a student brought new information to academy officials indicating the “possibility
of more honor code violations in the compromise,” an academy news release said.

Minorities majority at Cal State

HAYWARD, CA (CPS)--A majority of minority students now make up the student body at California State Hayward, campus officials said.
For the first time, 51.4 percent of the student body represents ethnic minorities, and 48.6 percent of the students are
Caucasian. The largest ethnic group is Asian/Filipino/Pacific Islander at 25.3 percent, followed by African American at 12.3 percent and Chicano/Latino/Hispanic
at 10 percent. The remaining 3.8 percent are Native American and other minorities.

“It is gratifying to see the efforts of the Affirmative Action office resulting in increased retention of minority students,” said
Albert Camacho, assistant director of the university’s Affirmative Action office. “The college experience is greatly enhanced when the student body
is diverse.”

In 1984, 36.5 percent of the total enrollment were minority students. Women now make up 61 percent of the campus,
and the average age of students is 26, the university reported.

Officers May, Dean, and Molinary

Phoebe Dean, Nat May, and Rosie Molinary ran unopposed for Union Vice President Co-Curricular, Union President, and Union Vice President
Social, respectively. Photo by Chris Frampton.To uphold his or her position and to ensure that a fair trial occurs, the
new Honor Council chair and secretary will be elected in April in a vote by the entire Council. Students may
vote for SGA president and vice president and Honor Council members from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Tuesday in
Chambers or the Union. Run-offs will be at the same times on Wednesday.

“There is no reason we can’t move forward...” B.J. continued from page 2. Beliefs should be believed; no one person
can make that decision. So as president, it would be important to hear all the voices on campus. There is
no reason why we can’t move forward and embrace other people, while at the same time cherishing the very roots
the school was founded on.”

What is your stand on the proposed changes of the Statement of Purpose and the policy requiring that Trustees be
Christian? If elected, how would you address these issues?

“I cannot say how I would address issues at this time, because as we speak, I’m going around to all
the students and asking them these types of questions, asking what concerns they have. This book right here [he holds
up notebook] has several students all around the dorms, their opinions on these types of issues. That’s not to say
that I’m going to act as a robot and do what 51% of the students want. Again, I know what
I want, and that is a more diverse student body, a more diverse faculty which I think we have, and
a diverse Trustee organization. Because if the Trustees are making policy that affects student life but the student life and
the students do not directly reflect the makeup of the Trustees, then I don’t see how those decisions pertain to
those students.

“So if we’re looking at very important decisions that the Trustees are making, we have to take into account all
those students whose voices may not be heard because they are not Christian. I believe that it is very important
that if I’m going to take a compromising stand on this right now, this is the stand I have. It’s
that there should be a minimum number of Trustees who aren’t Christian. I would say roughly 50% or 30%—that number
can be debated, but I feel there should always be ties to the Christian church. I would not like to
see a total revamping of the Trustees where the Christian students and Christians all around campus feel that their rights
are being infringed upon. At the same time, there are many students whose voices aren’t being heard, whose religions may
be embraced in one sense, but are not particularly recognized and understood in another sense.

“There are many alumni who’ve graduated who are non-Christians and would probably make very good Trustees, and to say otherwise
would be close-minded. In that sense, there should be a movement toward making the Trustees more diverse of a body
because it reflects the students, and there should be a need to address the Statement of Purpose and find a
way to make it more embracing of the structure we now have, rather than the structure we once had when
it was created.”

What do you predict will be Davidson’s biggest challenge in 1994?

“I’d say not only in 1994, but for as long as we’re alive, it’s respect among the administration and faculty.
Sometimes I feel we’re being treated like children and not like young adults. Some of us act like children; I’m
no exception. But sometimes there has to be more communication and there has to be more understanding. Faculty members need
to know where to draw the line as far as getting involved in student life. I’ve made an effort this
year to bring faculty members down to my fraternity and have them eat. They’ve been very surprised that it wasn’t
a beat-up old house with garbage everywhere and rowdy students looking to break things and act like animals. Everyone was
very civilized and we had good food. I got a thank you note from one of those faculty members. It
was the first time she’d ever been invited down and she had a better time than she ever expected. Those
types of contacts that we make with the administrators and the faculty members are so essential for them to understand
what it is the students are and want. We can’t entirely convey that message in words; we have to do
it through deeds. There has to be a lot more interaction on an equal plane with these people so that
next time, when we come back from a break and we find out that the sports complex has done some
changing, that we don’t feel we’ve been in the dark about it until our lives have already been changed as
well. We have to be taken into account whenever something in this school happens.

“I don’t feel that’s been done enough. I feel many times students just go with the flow and follow what
they’ve been told to do, all the while knowing that it’s not right, just not knowing how to change it.
Once we sit down, it will take time, but I hope that my administration will be the first all-out effort
to establish that commonality between the students and the faculty, the Trustees, the administrators.

“So we all feel like, on some level, on the level of moving this school forward, that we’re all on
the same plane.”
