RIS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1994

10

Good time tunes nearly forgotten

If you missed the third annual “Cold Beverages and Country Music” party last Saturday night, I really don’t know what to tell you. You missed an indescribable experience. We heard everything. Not only did we dance to the greatest hits of Alan Jackson, but the talented DJs also reminded us of that underplayed champion, Jerry Jeff Walker. For every Dwight Yoakum tune, we heard David Allan Coe still whistlin' Dixie with Geoff Graham preaching his backwoods gospel. After each Clint hit came Mel McDaniel howlin’ about his baby’s blue jeans. I couldn’t have been happier.

As much as I love Alan, Dwight, Clint, and the rest of country’s modern-day heroes, I have to give credit for the party’s overwhelming success to those light-hearted troubadours of the seventies and eighties. So this week, having nothing better to write about, I decided to tell those of you who skipped the party exactly what you missed.

David Allan Coe started off the evening right with “Please Come to Boston.” The “Long Haired Redneck” was there all night long singing “You Never Even Called Me By My Name” with enough feeling to break my heart. Jerry Jeff sang the original “Mr. Bojangles” with a slide guitar instead of the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band’s accordion (don’t get me wrong—I love their remake). His voice, worn by Tennessee whiskey, lived the lyrics. An Oklahoma son, born of an “Up Against the Wall Redneck” mother, was there as well, along with his wife Betty Lou Thelma Liz. It was a regular ol’ “Louisiana Saturday Night” when Mel McDaniel sang “Baby’s Got Her Blue Jeans On” twice in a row. I, like the dirty dog I am, was grinnin’ ear to ear.

Before it was over and the lights came on, Willie, Kenny, and Buffett had made an appearance or two. Wynonna, Hal Ketchum, and Diamond Rio may have been there, but it was definitely the old-timers who stole the show.

See Geoff on page 11

FOOTLOOSE

Funky new styles of footwear make for new

Have you ever stopped to think about the shoes people wear at Davidson? No? Well, you’re not in the minority. I hadn’t either, until I got the assignment for this article. Shoes at Davidson... well, a few of the typical pairs came to mind—smelly running shoes, Tevas, beat-up bucks, and, for the young liberals on campus, birks, and, of course, my roommate’s platform shoes.

Platform shoes? That was the first interesting pair that came to mind; from that an article was born. For all of you who haven’t noticed, strange shoes have been appearing campus-wide: chunky clunkers, hip platforms, Doc Martens (thanks to our study-abroad students), wood-wedges with attitude, and, in case you still question my observations, just check out the women’s soccer team’s new sneaks. Liz Schaper is “styling” with function in her gazelles and she can stop some pretty mean shots with them too.

My personal favorite pair of shoes on campus are Carson Gilbert’s green clogs. I’m not even sure if they survived her trip through France, but those worn, wooly clogs somehow always cheered me up my freshman year, possibly because they reminded me how cool my roommate was. My other favorite pair of Davidson shoes definitely couldn’t be called funky except possibly in reference to their smell—my boyfriend’s chukkas. Those shoes have been through lost hiking trips, numerous pubs, and all over Britain. They’ve had more mud and beer on them than I care to imagine and they have more personality than I do.

Now that I’ve elaborated on how I feel about shoes at Davidson, it’s time to print what our esteemed fellow students have to say when asked whether shoes at Davidson are in fact getting funkier:

Mike Kessler: “It’s been a needed thing for many years, as Davidson has been changing from a very conservative to a more liberal atmosphere. Shoes are certainly a reflection of people’s attitudes.”

Jo Burrows: “I think living with my incredibly funky roommate [that’s me, but I swear she really said this] has rubbed off on me. When I first moved in I thought a lot of her shoes were really weird, but now I find myself wearing weird shoes too. Of course I’ve worn Docs since high school—but then again—I’m British.” (Jo’s favorite pair of shoes are Laura Leibfried’s green Docs).

CAT GRIMMELLWilliams: “I think it's great—it's an expansion of the traditionally closed Davidson community to incorporate more aspects of the real world. But now what bothers me the most is that I’ve been the one wearing the funky shoes at Davidson for the last three years! When I first started wearing my shoes at Davidson everyone stared at them and then, two years later, everyone is wearing them. My freshman year, I was the only person wearing clogs and now all these little preppy girls are wearing clogs and no one ever stops to say, 'Sorry that we treated you like crap and stared at you,' and that ticks me off.” (Jenn’s favorite pair of shoes on campus are her own, of course).

Jane Brock: “I think shoes are a great expression of one’s personality, and yet, at the same time, at Davidson they can be sort of cliquish, like Docs or Birkenstocks.” (Jane’s favorite pair of shoes are my little tiger clunkers—yes, they’re all paid for!)

Wallace Sanders (a recent Davidson graduate): "Why are all these people wearing Birkenstocks? Because they are not consumers? Come on! Birkenstocks are $90 symbols of antimaterialism!" (Apparently, Wallace’s favorite pair of shoes are simply those which are not Birks.)

Laura Leibfried: “As far as Davidson shoes go these days, there’s a lot more color, a lot more volume, and a lot more kick. And there are a lot of Docs. Just a few years ago no one knew about them, but now everyone has them. People here won’t cross the line unless they think it’s cool. Another thing is that last semester the big thing was clogs and everyone had to go out and buy them and clump around. Now the big J. Crew fad is hiking boots and we’re just waiting for the next big shoe fad to rush in and engulf the Court.” (Laura’s favorite pair of shoes are Jo Burrows’ Doc boots with purple laces.)

Nicole Richardson: “I haven’t really...

See Feet on page 11

---

Artist Series storyteller. Artist Series features American storytelling

By Scott McLean

Anyone who thinks that the art of American storytelling is a thing of the past should have attended the latest Artist Series event. Last Tuesday evening, a small but enthusiastic crowd gathered in the 900 Room to see a one-man show, starring veteran civil rights worker/playwright John O’Neal as a storyteller who shares anecdotes and insights about growing up in the Jim Crow South. In his play Don’t Start Me to Talking or I’ll Tell Everything I Know: Sayings From the Life and Writings of Junebug Jabbo Jones, writer O’Neal slipped into the title character and informed the audience that Junebug Jabbo Jones wasn’t his real name—he was just one in a long line of folks who have used the name Junebug and told stories. After bringing the audience up to date on the history of the name Junebug Jabbo Jones and laying down the “rules of the house," Junebug began to tell stories from his own life and invited the audience to interact with the character. Expertly combining humor with pain, Junebug weaved poignant tales of frustration and segregation in the South prior to the Civil Rights Movement.

O’Neal’s own involvement in the movement began in the early 1960s, when he worked as a field secretary for the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. He got into theater work in 1963 and co-founded the Free Southern Theater. From this point, he traveled across the country as a director while developing his own plays in the process. Aside from Junebug, which O’Neal has been presenting since 1980, he is currently working on two more plays. One of them is a musical comedy, and the other is a historical drama about Nat Turner. O’Neal related experiences to the audience that were both captivating and full of emotion. More importantly, he revealed an integral part of the past that is all too often forgotten.