THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING _ MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994

FALL FESTIVAL

Steel Drum Band (lunch provided)
Friday, September 9
7-9 p.m. - Student Faculty Mixer (jazz band) between Little Library and Chambers
9-1 a.m. - Liquid Pleasure (food provided throughout)

Saturday, September 10
11-12:30 p.m. - Freshman Regatta
12:30-4 p.m. - Day at the Lake
8-12 a.m. - 50's Rock n’ Roll Dance in the Commons

All proceeds go to Davidson Day Care.

Dr. Tong's new book provides two-sided view of reproductive rights
By Randy Hartwell

Few topics provoke such fierce debate as the deeply personal issue of reproductive rights, but Dr. Rosemarie Tong, Davidson's Samuel
E. and Mary W. Thatcher Professor of Medical Humanities and Professor of Philosophy, has jumped right into this heated subject
with her new book, Controlling Our Reproductive Destiny: A Technological and Philosophical Perspective.

Co-authored by Williams College biochemist Larry Kaplan, Controlling Our Reproductive Destiny explores from a scientific viewpoint the wide range of
procreative and/or contraceptive procedures currently available, including artificial insemination, abortion, in vitro fertilization, and sterilization. It then philosophically examines each
option's inevitable social, legal, and ethical ramifications.

Tong says her latest book is the result of “an attempt to bring humanists and scientists together to understand each
other’s mindsets.” She says that her particular situation in co-authoring this book “was interesting, with (Kaplan), a conservative Jewish male,
and me, a feminist philosopher female—our differences provided a system of checks and balances for each other.”

Tong hopes that the book will aid in solving infertility by making people, especially women, aware of the many options.
However, in it she warns against relying too heavily on the new technology; “It’s a double-edged sword,” she says. She
and her colleague determine that the various breakthroughs do indeed “increase human freedom and well-being,” but it is only through
constant reevaluation on both scientific and philosophic levels that they will truly benefit society.

Tong is also the author of Women, Sex, and the Law, Feminist Thought, Feminine and Feminist Ethics, and Ethics in
Policy Analysis. Controlling Our Reproductive Destiny is currently available from M.I.T. Press.

Write for ARTS & LIVING
Call Rachel at -2148.

Natural Born Killers succeeds in unlocking the beast within our minds
NBK continued from page 8

its glorification of criminals to make money. When Micky finally kills Wayne Gaye, he proclaims, “I’m making some kind of
a statement about you and what you represent, although I’m not sure what it is.” Stone is, though, and gets
a little carried away with his clips of Lyle Menendez and Tonya Harding at the close of the film.

On a deeper level, the film raises some interesting questions not only about the role of the media but about
the American lust for the grotesque. It is easy to berate the tabloid TV industry for its focus on shocking
crimes, but after all, how many Americans sat glued to their TVs as the white OJ mobile sped down the
highway, half-ashamed, yet secretly hoping he really had done it? The media is not to blame; it is simply an
industry. As Americans, we all must begin to shoulder some of the blame for the violence in our society. Many
of us like to label criminals as psychotic or insane, thereby distancing ourselves from them. Why do nine out of
ten murders in the industrialized world occur in the U.S.? Do we really have a much higher incidence of mental
illness? Perhaps there is some greater malaise that plagues us all, its symptoms only kept at bay by our fragile
distinctions between good and bad, us and them.

Natural Born Killers was painful for me to watch, not because of the gore, but because I found myself liking
the violence. It was exciting when Mallory blew away

Bavis takes a look at summer music hits '94
continued from page 8

ing out in the mud, were spending the entire time wondering how they stood on what could be called the
Woodstock Questions — “Should Crosby Stills and Nash have...?” “Is corporate sponsorship ruining the spirit of...?” “If you could have
been to the first one instead of...?”

In hindsight, Woodstock ’69 and Woodstock ’94 possessed some timeless, interesting parallels, most noticeably mud, gate-crashers, and spirited performances. The
extravagantly paid Nine Inch Nails put ona particularly wild show, with Trent Reznor rolling about in unnatural ways as he
screamed his song “Down In It.” On the radio, the term “alternative” grew ever more ambiguous as Lisa Loeb’s sleeper
hit “Stay” and Collective Soul’s annoying debut single “Shine” got airplay until the lasers almost burned themselves right through the
radio stations’ CDs. The surprise cinematic hit Forrest Gump gave rise to a soundtrack that many could not resist. Like
the movie, the Forrest Gump soundtrack featured snapshot images of the ‘50s, ‘60s, and ‘70s using such pop classics as
“Hound Dog” and “Turn! Turn! Turn!” MTV had as busy a summer as the radio stations and amphitheaters. More than
ever, many of the most popular videos also possessed some artistic merit. Soundgarden’s “Black Hole Sun” provided an apocalyptic vision
of suburban life. “Sabotage,” by the Beastie Boys, satirized ‘70s detective shows so well, many may have found themselves checking
their local cable listings for Starsky and Hutch reruns. The most amazing of all was Nine Inch Nails’ “Closer.” Anyone
who has seen its frightening images of pig heads, sinister old men, and singer Trent Reznor’s body spinning in mid-air
knows it is one for the ages. That video, like the summer in which it debuted, was, if nothing else,
hard to forget.

Don't Miss the 50's DANCE
September 10: 8-12 in the evening
Vail Commons
$3.00 for Students; $5.00 for Faculty, Staff, and Public
All Proceeds Benefit the Davidson-Cornelius Daycare Center.
* Free Homemade Milkshakes, French Fries, Rice Krispy Treats
* Dance Contest, Door Prizes, and a Performance by RenElvis
Sponsored by the Davidson College Union Board

innocent people in a roadside cafe. I was envious. I, too, wanted to live freely and guiltlessly. As someone who
supports gun control and opposes the death penalty, this was a slightly sickening admission. And then I realized I had
been perfectly manipulated by Stone. His goal is not to repulse us by the violence but to attract us to
it so that we might be repulsed by ourselves.

Dear Terry Buffington,
"Someone who cares"

Dear Terry,
I am a freshman, and I can’t get along with my roommate. We come from such different backgrounds, we don’t
agree on anything. Should I try to move out?
Sincerely,
Distressed

Dear Distressed,
A problem at home is the worst kind of problem. Where do you go if you can’t stand to be
in your own room? The first thing you have to do is be tolerant. Agree to disagree on some things,
and compromise on things that directly affect your happiness as roommates (i.e. using the stereo, bringing friends back, sleeping hours).
Some of your best friends will never agree with you, but friendship can overcome that if you look for the
good qualities in a person. If you try, really try, to see past your initial problems, you will almost certainly
find common ground. If you give it some time and still are unhappy, talk to your hall counselor before you
do anything drastic. There’s no point in making the situation worse.
Love,
Terry

Dear Terry,
I was really insulted by some of your comments in last week’s paper. You suck, and I want you to
reveal your identity so I can direct my anger at someone.
Angry, Concerned Citizen

Dear Concerned Citizen,
Whenever someone criticizes you, the first thing you should always do is say, “I understand you.” So let me say,
I understand you. You are a “concerned citizen” with little to do but moan and complain about this and that.
That’s fine. I accept you for your faults, and I would hope you can accept mine. If you don’t agree
with my advice, then write in; I'll print your letter. But please don’t waste pen and paper with destructive rather
than constructive criticism. Remember, one suggestion is worth a thousand complaints, you mindless prick.
Love,
Terry

Please write to Terry! Letters should be addressed to:
Dear Terry
Box 219
Davidson, NC 28036
or can be left in the envelope on the door of the Davidsonian office.
