6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1994

This Week in Washington

Clinton halts Iraqi aggression, now searches for long-term solution

By Andrea Short

Saddam Hussein commanded the attention of President Clinton and the U.S. military last week as the elite Republican Guard descended
on the border that separates Kuwait and Iraq. Although the immediate crisis apparently ended last Monday when Iraq announced it
would withdraw its troops, the U.S. continues to grapple with how to avoid future confrontations.

Thousands of American troops, helicopters, and planes arrived in the Persian Gulf area last week after Iraqi troops began moving
away from Kuwait’s border. Pentagon officials asserted that troops would ensure regional stability and remain while the respective governments and
the United Nations determined the best long-term policy for peace. The U.S. military has stationed enough American forces in the
region to guarantee American success if Hussein does initiate any aggression. In a symbolic gesture of support, various allies have
pledged troops to supplement the U.S. effort.

Strategists and policymakers have consequently turned their attentions to preventing future Iraqi provocations. Many officials and political scientists fear that
while the U.S. possesses the military strength to rebuff Iraq’s military advances, Hussein may continue to periodically threaten Kuwaiti borders.
Repeatedly sending large numbers of American military personnel and supplies to Kuwait is both politically and fiscally infeasible. Likewise, the
Pentagon has clearly stated that it does not desire to maintain a permanent force in the Persian Gulf, as it
has in South Korea. Secretary of Defense William Perry released a statement assuring the public that “no, we do not
plan on keeping [the troops] there. We want to resolve this crisis.”

Perry released a plan last Monday calling for the establishment of a demilitarized zone in southern Iraq, a plan that
closely follows the no-fly zone established after the Gulf War in 1991. While some countries have pledged troops or support,
other nations, including some allies, came out against the U.S. action. Aiding the United States, Saudi Arabia and five other
Gulf nations agreed to help share the cost of protecting Kuwait from Iraqi aggression. France, however, has been especially vocal
in its opposition to U.S. intervention. The French Defense Minister strongly criticized the United States, saying that the military build-up
was “not unconnected with domestic politics.” China and Russia joined in the criticism; however, the three nations’ discontent could be
similarly challenged as more concerned with domestic needs than international concern. France, China, and Russia all had been attempting to
end the economic sanctions against Iraq earlier than scheduled; this would allow the nations to resume their lucrative trading with
Baghdad. Madeline K. Albright, who heads the U.S. delegation to the United Nations, is attempting to persuade the Security Council
to adopt the American action plan, but this opposition may slow agreement.

Domestically, the President’s success in Haiti and the imminent one in Iraq have bolstered Clinton’s popularity. Last week’s CNN/USA poll
found Americans supporting Clinton’s actions by a three to one margin. As the United States government and military continue to
strive for a long-term solution, however, most poll watchers say that this temporary rise will hold little if any significance
in the November elections.

Sources include: the October 11, 12, and 13 issues of The New York Times.

The Dean Rusk Program

North Korea and United States remain deadlocked

By Graham Ernst

While Haiti, Cuba, and Iraq have dominated U.S. headlines for the past two months, North Korea’s nuclear arms initiative looms
on the international horizon as the most potent threat to world security. Since former President Carter’s mission avoided an immediate
showdown this summer, U.S. officials have made no progress toward gaining access for full inspection of North Korea’s nuclear facilities
during their negotiations in Geneva.

North Korea has attracted the attention of the international community since it declared last March that it was pulling out
of the International Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. Kim Il Sung, North Korea’s Communist leader, backed up that pledge later last spring
by refusing International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) inspectors full access to his country’s nuclear facilities. This action initiated support by
nations of the United Nations Security Council to consider placing economic sanctions on North Korea. Sung responded in early June
by declaring that any UN sanctions placed on North Korea would be considered an “act of war.”

A confrontation was averted in early July as a result of Carter’s mission to mediate negotiations between U.S. and North
Korean officials. Conditions of the agreement included a promise from Sung that he would not pursue a nuclear weapons program,
a summit between Sung and South Korean President Kim Young Sam in late July, and continued negotiations in Geneva between
U.S. and North Korean diplomats. No agreement was reached on inspections. However, Sung died on July 8, canceling the North
Korea-South Korea summit. Because little is known about his successor, Kim Jong Il, most intelligence officials are not sure what
to expect from North Korea in the future.

Regarding the other two provisions of the Carter agreement, Chief American delegate Robert Gallucci and North Korea’s Deputy Foreign Minister
Kang Sok Ju are at an impasse inGeneva. North Korea has not disclosed the location of at least four nuclear
bombs worth of plutonium which were removed from a nuclear power plant. Also, IAEA inspectors have still not received access
to North Korea’s nuclear facilities. As a result, many are skeptical about Kim Il Sung’s Carter mission promise in time
for mid-term congressional elections. He refused to comment on his statements last Monday when he suddenly praised his relationship with
the U.S. Although it is likely that China would not block an attempt to place sanctions on North Korea despite
its ties to its only Communist partner, there are doubts that sanctions would have a significant impact on North Korea’s
already struggling economy due to Japanese smuggling of $1 billion a year and North Korea’s weapons technology for oil trade
with Iran. While Carter’s mission took North Korea off the front page of U.S. newspapers, no long-term agreement was established
regarding the proliferation of nuclear arms. As a result, this conflict remains unresolved and jeopardizes the containment of global nuclear
arms.

Sources include Feb. 27, March 16, March 23, June 7, July 17, Sept. 30, Oct. 8 issues of The New
York Times; Oct. 8 issue of The Wall Street Journal; June 17 issue of The Washington Post; June 13 issue
of Time; June 11, July 2 editions of The Economist; July 11 edition of The National Review; June 30 edition
of Far East Economic Review; July-Aug. edition of Arms Control Today.

NOTES

Love that American Culture

LOS ANGELES — Halloween revelers are snatching up O.J. Simpson masks, plastic knives, and jerseys splattered with fake blood, the
latest bizarre twist in the slayings of Simpson’s ex-wife and her friend. The Ragstop-Vintage store has already sold about 20
rubbery Simpson masks at $20 each, employee Victor Pahl said Sunday, adding that sales have been “incredible.” “We’re almost sold
out of the original shipment,” he said. Shoppers can pick up a complete costume — a sweatshirt splattered with fake
blood, a mask, and a plastic knife — for $50 at the store in Fullerton in Orange County. “There’s some
tragedy to this,” Pahl said. “Maybe you’ve got to laugh at tragedy.” Other Southern California costume shops are also capitalizing
on the slayings, selling accessories including Afro wigs and black-and-white prison shirts with No. 32 written on them. An AP
release printed in the Oct. 10 issue of The Macon Telegraph.

Man drinks boiling oil to prove he’s the Devil

Paris — A man who claims he is the Devil stunned millions of people on national television by drinking a
pot of boiling oil — without even suffering a blister! Francois Blarchy told the viewers he would walk through a
raging bonfire during his next appearance. From the Oct. 18 issue of Weekly World News.

Philippines to get Taiwan cement plant

TAIPEI, Oct. 8 (DPA) — The Taiwan Cement Corp. (TCC) will move one of its plants to the Philippines after
it was closed in Taiwan for environmental reasons, the company said today. TCC refused to reveal the location of the
new plant. TCC’s Kaohsiung cement plant in south Taiwan produced 1.9 million tons of cement a year before it was
closed last month. TCC is one of Taiwan’s 13 major cement companies. It still has one cement plant and plans
to open another one. The Philippine plant will supply cement to both the Philippines and Taiwan, said Chou Jo-chen, secretary
to TCC’s general manager. From the Oct. 9 issue of The Arab News.

No epidemic as human “mad cow” deaths drop

BRITAIN — The human equivalent of Mad Cow Disease is no greater in Britain than in other European countries —
the indication that there is no link with cases of Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy here. “We see no evidence of an
emerging Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease epidemic,” said Dr. Robert Will of the National CJD Surveillance Unit in Edinburgh, which published its third
annual report yesterday. By Roger Highfield, Science Editor, from the Oct. 8 issue of the London Telegraph.

Flesh-eating bug kills patient

GLOUCESTERSHIRE — A patient has died from the flesh-eating bug, necrotizing fasciitis, after a hysterectomy in Gloucestershire Royal Hospital where
two others died earlier this year from a similar infection. Doctors said Mrs. Jasbir Khaira, 44, from Cheltenham, did not
contract the infection in the hospital and there was no link between the cases. From the Oct. 8 issue of
the London Telegraph.

Now is the time to speak up!

Davidson College is in the midst of a comprehensive self-study that includes all areas of campus life. One focus of
the self-study is “Information Technology,” which includes computer use, service, and support; audio-visual matters; and technology in the library. All
members of the Davidson community—students, staff, and faculty—are urged to communicate ideas for the future, observations about the present, and
suggestions pertaining either to the Information Technology Self-Study Committee (#7 Jackson Court) or to individual members of the committee: John
Casey (Computer Services, co-chair), Theo Curry (student appointee), Linda Erickson (Financial Aid), Polly Griffin (Registrar), John Heil (Philosophy, co-chair), Peter
Krentz (History), Grant Jones (Anthropology), Leland Park (library), Mitch Rhea (Chemistry), and Mary Thornberry (Political Science). Committee members can be
reached by e-mail.
