THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1994

Fashion show to benefit Metrolina AIDS project and others
- By Jennifer Kerns

On November 12, FLAG will present “Breaking Out,” a fashion show to benefit the Metrolina AIDS Project and Time Out Youth (a homosexual youth support/advocacy group). Some profits will help establish a scholarship for a student serving the gay community.

“We’re planning to put weekly ads in The Davidsonian, and all the Charlotte and local papers,” says Hal Dougherty, FLAG’s co-chair. As its biggest event of the semester, the fashion show involves everyone on campus, from political science majors to members of Patterson Court. Dougherty expects each organization on campus will provide a model: “We want this to be campus-wide.”

For maximum attendance, co-chairs Dougherty and Cat Grimmell checked in advance for possible conflicts. “This date was planned in August to avoid conflicts with other functions,” says Grimmell. “There is nothing else going on that weekend at the court.”

Connor, Rusk, and several fraternities have already pledged financial support. “I know that two houses are in financial trouble, but the rest will help out,” Grimmell says. The SGA has also donated.

Myrick to present her platform for House race
- By Chad A. Lloyd

The Davidson chapter of the College Republicans invites the Davidson community to a question-and-answer session with U.S. House candidate Sue Myrick this Wednesday night at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Myrick is running as the Republican candidate against Democrat Rory Blake for North Carolina’s 9th District seat.

Myrick’s service record includes two terms as Mayor of Charlotte from 1987 to 1991 and a term on Charlotte’s City Council from 1983 to 1985. While mayor, she served as chair of both the Drug Task Force and Public Safety Committee in the U.S. Conference of Mayors. Aside from her political background, Myrick is President and CEO of Myrick Advertising.

On the crime issue, Myrick believes that “one strike” is enough and feels that we should convert closed military bases to prisons in order to avoid overcrowding. She is also committed to doubling sentences for crimes against children and the elderly.

Concerning the economy, Myrick supports Thomas Jefferson’s notion that “the government which governs least governs best.” She supports the elimination of the capital gains tax and the removal of tax and regulatory burdens on small business, the largest sector of the economy.

Myrick also believes the welfare mentality of “something for nothing” must end and will work for a “two years and you’re out” policy. As for health care reform, she supports Medical Savings Accounts (similar to IRAs) while avoiding what she considers as socialized medicine through a government takeover of the industry.

Nationwide mid-term congressional elections will be held November 8th.

Delivery Drivers Needed

Papa John’s Pizza, the pizza company on the move, is now hiring delivery drivers. If you are 18 years or older, have a valid driver’s license, auto insurance, a good driving record, and access to a car, you can be on the move!

- Make an average of up to $8 an hour or more.*
- Work flexible hours.
- It’s a fun place to work.
- Be part of one of the fastest growing pizza companies!
- A great opportunity for advancement!

* Income varies with hours worked.
* Gas reimbursements included.

Name
Address
Phone

Lake Norman
19700 One Norman Blvd.
896-7272

Delivering The Fife PagalFREE Six cans of Coca-Cola* classic with Two 14" Large One Topping Pizzas or One 14" Pizza Late Night Special. Additional toppings $1.54 each. Valid only at participating stores. Not valid with any other offer. $150. Junior Jenn Tracy and senior Mike Kessler will emcee the event, while Molly Johnson will manage the stage. Selected models will win CDs and other prizes for their organizations. After the fashion show, FLAG will host a dance, co-sponsored by the BSC, SGA, International Student Association, Independents, and Patterson Court. The 900 Room will offer music as well as non-alcoholic strawberry daiquiris and piña coladas.

The weekend of November 11 through 13 also includes MTV poet Sabah on Friday, the NAMES Project Quilt (not connected with FLAG), and a video on AIDS awareness before the Saturday show, as well as an interpretive dancer. FLAG members seek involvement in the Davidson campus. Already this year, FLAG members have talked to freshmen about sexuality, established a bulletin board in Chambers, and shown a film about homosexuals, Parting Glances, in the Union. Also, they have created a gay alumni directory for current students and alumni. With the leadership of co-chairs Dougherty and Grimmell, this dedication will continue. Dougherty acknowledges, “We’re very ambitious, but we plan to do everything on this list.”

TWENTY-ONE-YEAR-OLD NIGHT
Photo by Zeik Hendrix
Every Tuesday night those 21-years-old and older enjoy the traditional gathering in the 900 Room. The nights are known for their laid-back atmosphere. Upperclassmen enjoy low price domestic and import beers as well as free popcorn and Cokes. See story next week.

Proposal offers freshmen a choice
Co-ed continued from page 1
the role of social experimenters.”

The Next Step
The Residence Life Office anticipated this issue and has started researching the subject. According to Kurt Holmes, RLO is comparing Davidson to other small liberal arts colleges, such as Amherst and Swarthmore. Those researching the issue are going to weigh the pros and cons of co-ed housing. RLO will investigate the policies of regional schools as well. To strengthen the investigation, Holmes plans to find research that has already been completed. RLO hopes to have the research done in two weeks and then will state its official opinion on the subject.

Dean of Students Tom Shandley had not received the actual resolution as of Friday, but he has been considering the subject. He plans to “take the resolution under consideration and look at the issue” once he receives it. Shandley will consult RLO and consider the research that they are doing. He also plans to utilize the Committee for Campus and Religious Life to help him with the decision. The CCRL includes students and faculty and should give the Dean several perspectives on the situation. Shandley wanted to emphasize that no one would be forced to live in a co-ed situation against his or her will.

Write for News. It’s never too late! Call Ashlyn -2148.

Nancy J. Astle, M.D.
Certified by American Board of Dermatology
Craig S. Schauder, M.D.
Certified by American Board of Dermatology and American Board of Cosmetic Surgery
Specializing in Adult and Pediatric Care of the skin, hair, and nails; hair replacement surgery; liposuction; skin cancer removal, including Mohs Technique; chemical peels; spider vein treatment.
19900 Hwy 73 West
Davidson, NC 28036
LAKESIDE COSMETIC SURGERY & DERMATOLOGY CENTER
For an Appointment Call 704-892-4878