THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1994

Photo by Amy Laukkanen
A Mexican gourmet restaurant opened last week in Cornelius.

Nuclear Plant promises
By Lexy DeVane

Optimistically, I turn the key to open my P.O. Box. The typical dusty wind gushing from an empty box does
not welcome me. I am greeted instead by a calendar from McGuire Nuclear Station—the same station to which I have
become acquainted through frequent siren test notifications. The calendar turns out to be a gift complete not only with scenic
pictures of Lake Norman but also an emergency “plan for people who live, work or go to school, within 10
miles of the nuclear station.” The words hit me—I was living within ten miles of a nuclear power plant and
had never even stopped to think twice about it. Visions of Chernobyl and Three Mile Island filled my head.

The next day I ventured six miles down Highway 835 onto the premises of McGuire Nuclear Station. Buzzing transformers and
mammoth buildings surrounded me as I made my way to the Energy Explorium. Karin Surratt, Community Relations Representative, met me
at the Explorium to take me on a tour of the power plant. Prior to entering the plant, I had
to fill out numerous security clearance forms, present a photo I.D., pass through a metal detector and a high-tech explosives
“sniffer,” and don a stylish orange hard hat and goggles.

McGuire Nuclear Station, one of three nuclear plants owned by Duke Power, is a fully functioning nuclear capacitor providing energy
for over 1.7 million residents in North and South Carolina. Its massive buildings are bathed in security devices including motion
detectors, alarms, and concrete blockades prohibiting driving near the reactors. McGuire meets construction standards and could conceivably withstand the highest
level earthquake and operate securely even if turned upside-down.

In 1992, McGuire produced 61% of the energy used by residents in the Central Piedmont region through a process called
nuclear fission. The “nuclear fuel” used in this process of atom splitting is Uranium 235 which is manufactured into the
form of one-inch pellets. One uranium pellet produces as much energy as 149 gallons of oil, 1,780 pounds of coal
or 157 gallons of regular gasoline. One problem exists with this seemingly ideal system: Uranium is highly radioactive. Although radiation
originates from many everyday sources including the sun, dental X-rays, and color televisions, excessive dosages can cause many negative and
even lethal effects. A nuclear reactor plant in the area presents the possibility of a serious accident.

My extensive tour gave me the impression that McGuire realizes the serious nature of nuclear energy. The plant is teeming
with security stations by which every worker, each with an appropriate security clearance level depending on his job, must be
checked. In “the Brain” of the plant several staffs continuously monitor the computers in twelve-hour shifts. These trained teams practice
emergency training procedures in a mock-control room every fifth week. If an accident were to occur, the emergency plan calls
for all heads of all departments to meet in a central area within 75 minutes of notification. From this room
major decisions could be made.

Employees who work in radiation zones are fully dressed in appropriate protective gear. They are required to wear “beepers” which
monitor the level of radiation they receive. The total amount of radiation workers receive annually is significantly lower than the
government standards. Throughout the ten-mile area surrounding the plant, 53 sirens can warn the community in the event of a
dangerous situation. The sirens are fully tested four times during the year and are controlled by the local government, which
also monitors the plant. Evacuation routes are printed in the back of the calendars distributed to all neighboring residents to
further assist them in the event of an emergency.

In addition to safety concerns, the issue of uranium disposal is

Chile Ristras: Mexican food at a moderate price
By Alex Crumbley

Finally, Davidson and Cornelius residents no longer have to drive to Charlotte to find good south-of-the-border cuisine. On Tuesday, Chile
Ristras Mexican Steak House, located beside Movies at the Lake in Cornelius, opened, bringing gourmet Mexican food, a spacious bar,
and an upbeat atmosphere right to our doorstep. Don’t expect Taco Bell or even El Cancun prices—Chile Ristras’ menu features
$15 steaks, and chips are not free, but a tasty meal for

Fancy Dress at Davidson?
Party continued from page 10

free of charge, held during the annual Winter Carnival. With only a $5,000 budget, the Winter Carnival is able to
provide professional decorations from Boston, a motown band, a string quartet, a folk band, karaoke, free food, and door prizes.
All students receive invitations and are not required to bring dates. Davidson, with a much smaller Greek system and a
male population split almost evenly between Greeks and Independents, has no tradition of all-campus dances. The purpose of an all-campus
dance would be to foster unity by bringing all students together in a common location to socialize without the division
between Union and court events.

The Union Social Board deserves praise for its initiative in this direction; however, Union events advertised as “all-campus” enjoy limited
success due to competition from parties on the court. While the Union’s most recent effort, Midwinters’ “Dancing on Ice,” received
rave reviews from those who attended, it was not the ideal all-campus party whichwould bring the entire campus together successfully.
Independents are not the only students left out of closed fraternity parties and semi-formal weekends. Many women resent the fact
that they cannot fully participate in the three date weekends unless invited by a fraternity member. A truly all-campus dance
would enable women to invite their own dates or attend with friends. Financing such an event is expensive (“Fancy Dress”
costs around $70-$80,000), but scaled-down versions could be paid for by ticket sales and other fund-raisers. Commons are both facilities
that could easily be transformed into locations for an all-campus dance at Davidson. An off-campus site such as a hotel
in Charlotte is another option. Recently-elected SGA Vice President Allison Sabel ran with a campaign promise of such an all-campus
dance. She believes that such an event will succeed if, “all organizations put in money to get a well-known band.”
The Patterson Court houses, the Union, and the SGA should, according to Sabel, contribute to the event so that, “they’d
have a stake in it too and would come.” Sabel has received a lot of feedback from students who support
“another option to get the whole campus together so independents are not excluded from the court.” Sabel and Eric Rosenbach,
SGA President-elect, have discussed plans for the idea.

Two appetizers, and an enchilada or chimichanga entree can cost only $20 if ordered carefully. While it is priced a
little higher than El Cancun and certainly Taco Bell, you get what you pay for. Chile Ristras gives you plenty
of food, and though chips cost three dollars, they bring a huge basket of red, white, and blue corn tortilla
chips with both green and red salsas to dip into. The chimichangas are fat and dressed up with different cheeses,
rice, and beans, and the black bean soup is the best I’ve ever had. A five or six-dollar appetizer can
fill up the light eater or leave room in the hearty eater for a couple of the German brews on
tap at the bar. Though rather upscale as Mexican places go, Chile Ristras is not as expensive as Kobe, and
would be a good place to go before a date function. The atmosphere is versatile; the decor is nice enough
that you can blend into the crowd dressed up or in jeans. Chile Ristras, which in Spanish means strands of
Chiles, hang throughout the restaurant bringing the southwest a little south of Davidson.

CHILE RISTRAS beside Movies at the Lake
Lunch 11:30-2:00 p.m.
Dinner 5:00-10:00 p.m.
Weekends until 11:00 p.m.

Another source of controversy related to the power plant. Although uranium is recycled three times at McGuire, McGuire’s storage is
filling up ahead of schedule because the plant has been used to store used uranium for another Duke nuclear plant
whose storage facility is currently full. Plans are underway to bury the excess radioactive waste in Utah. The burial of
radioactive waste is an environmental issue at the forefront of the nuclear power debate because it can take thousands of
years for the waste to lose its radioactivity. France, which is powered 70% by nuclear power, presently recycles its uranium
waste. Although this process is expensive, scientists are investigating it as an alternative to burial for use in the States.
Nuclear power is one answer to the growing energy crisis facing our planet in the upcoming decades as we continue
to deplete our natural resources—but is it an environmentally safe, economically feasible, or healthy alternative?

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Garment
5 Society girls
9 Strikebreakers
14 Go by car
15 Of a historic time
16 — Haute, Ind.
17 “I cannot tell”
18 Host
19 Certain relative
20 Pocket
22 Singer — John
23 Zealot
27 Hurried
28 Save for future use
32 Smooth fabric
37 De Niro film
42 Indian
44 Bovine name
45 Cake or pie
49 Proven
50 Tree
51 Certain step
52 Steps (abbr.)
53 A Guthrie
54 Breakfast food
61 “The King —”
62 Fr. city
63 Present
64 “— a Kick Out of You”

DOWN
1 Skill
2 Houston athlete
3 Soundproof a wall
4 Observe
5 — Flynn
6 Disney film
7 Stallone
8 Singer Fitzgerald
9 Certain
10 Observe
11 A Guthrie
12 Breakfast food
24 Great Lake
25 Judge's bench
26 Sea bird
29 Old cars
32 Ornamental
33 Comic Johnson
35 Fore and —
38 Fragrant root
41 “— a Song Go Out of My Heart”
46 Less fresh
47 Hemingway
48 Tri
50 One who tricks
51 Separated
52 — Starr
53 Beneath
54 Works on copy
59 — jongg
60 — Na Na
61 Assist
