SPORTS MONDAY, MARCH 14, 1994

Women Cats scare #1 Ga. Southern in first round of tourney
By Matt Pitzer

Last Thursday’s 71-62 loss to Georgia Southern in the first round of the Southern Conference tournament was perhaps the closest
thing possible to a moral victory for the Wildcats. Davidson finished the season at 5-21 and failed to accomplish their
pre-season goal of winning a conference game in their second year of Division I play. But the Wildcats were able
to hang with the top-seeded Eagles, who went on to win the tournament and advance to the NCAA championships. Davidson
even led by one point at halftime before falling behind in the second half. The Wildcats were led by Carolyn
Kirsch with 18 points and Kristen Ferrucci’s 11. Georgia Southern took charge of the game behind Andrea Autry’s 13 second-half
points.

Cat Nips
ACC versus Southern Conference
By Tracy French

This weekend I went to the ACC tournament, and it was awesome. All the hype, the thousands of fans, the
media attention—everything was exciting. Getting tickets was impossible—and expensive. I put so much effort into getting to that tournament that
I was ready to enjoy it. But when I really stopped to think, I realized that the Southern Conference tournament
was as thrilling, if not more exciting.

At the Southern Conference tournament, I watched my school compete. My friends and I painted our faces, made signs, screamed
our voices hoarse, and experienced every bit of the tournament. Davidson students were on the court. I could completely identify
with them. I knew how hard they had worked and what type of discipline it must have taken to balance
the Davidson workload with basketball and become the #2 seed in the tournament. In other words, I came away from
that tournament with a new appreciation for Davidson athletes.

The ACC seemed almost impersonal to me. Basketball players I did not know and could not identify with were waging
war on the basketball court for the coveted ACC tournament title. But it just was not the same. The Southern
Conference tournament was more important because it was Davidson. The Southern Conference teams had to win the tournament to get
an NCAA bid, while the ACC always gets 3 or 4. I have always been a Georgia Tech fan, but
for the first time, I was more nervous at a Davidson game than I have ever been at a Tech
game. O.K., so Georgia Tech lost miserably in the first round, but I still think the Southern Conference tournament was
more fun. I am sorry that it took me so long to realize this, but I want to thank the
basketball team for showing me what I was missing. They pointed out what was right in front of me—Davidson athletics.
I had not completely overlooked them, but I had not been passionate about them. I think it is time for
all Davidson students to see what is right in front of them.

Last Sunday’s game was a heartbreaker. I could not speak after the game I was so upset. But the Davidson
men’s basketball team deserves more than an NCAA bid. Whether they win or lose, they deserve our thanks and our
support.

Baseball takes 2 of 3 v. ASU
By Will Cobb

After enduring a tough week, the Davidson baseball pitching staff flexed its muscle against the Appalachian State Mountaineers on Saturday,
taking both games with 7-2 and 2-1 victories. But Appalachian came back on Sunday to avoid the sweep with a
9-7 victory to close out the weekend series. The Cats now stand with an overall 5-11 record (4-5 SC) going
into this week’s competition and their hectic spring break schedule.

In the first game on Saturday, Chris Pollard took the start on the mound, going eight innings for his first
collegiate victory. Pollard gave up two runs while scattering 10 hits, with four strikeouts and one walk. Going into the
fifth inning the Cats and Mountaineers found themselves in a 2-2 tie, but in the bottom of the inning, Davidson
broke loose for five runs. Clay Hall and Jazz Frietas both homered to ensure the victory. Mac Chapman came on
in relief in the ninth inning, giving up no hits and striking out one to finish for the Wildcats. Frietas
went 2-5 with 2 RBIs and Hall finished 2-3 with one RBI. Chad Blackwelder went 3-4 to lead the Cats
in hitting.

The second game proved to be a pitcher's duel as the Wildcats were able to escape with a tight 2-1
victory. The Cats clinched the victory in the bottom of the ninth inning when Mac Chapman drove in freshman Jordan
Deas for the win. Hall was the starting pitcher for the Wildcats, giving up only 1 run in 5 1/3
innings while scattering six hits and fanning five batters. Sophomore Rhett Ingerickcame in for relief in the sixth inning, pitching
3 2/3 shutout innings to pick up his first win of the season. Chapman led the offense with 3-4 batting
and the game-winning RBI. See Baseball on page 14.

“We wanted to end the season on a positive note,” Kirsch said. “I know it's hard to say that ending
with a loss is positive, but we came so far this year and to lose by only nine points to
the best team in the conference was a really good feeling.”

The final portion of the season was a little difficult for the Wildcats, as they lost two starters - Erin
Butcher and Maggie Young - to season-ending injuries. But Kirsch...

See Hoops on page 14.

Photo by Mike Wang
Sophomore Chris Pollard pitches for his first collegiate win against Appalachian State on Saturday.

Men's track takes to the outdoors with high hopes
By Jeff George

The men’s track team began their outdoor season on Saturday, competing in the Seahawk Invitational at UNC-Wilmington. Despite chilly temperatures
and a moderate wind, several ‘Cats turned in solid performances. The indoor season was marked by the prominence of several
newcomers; at this meet, however, it was the veterans who led the team.

Senior co-captain Duncan Spears, seeking to end his college career with a second conference championship, began the season very well
with a 55.1-second race in the 400m hurdles. Freshman James Berry, who seems to be the heir-apparent to Spears’ position
among the conference elite, followed close behind with a time of 55.9 seconds. The team’s other captain, junior Erik McMichael,
ran to a 2:01 in the 800m despite having taken two weeks off to rehabilitate from an injury. Another veteran,
Joe Beach, ran 2:04 in the same race, faster at this point in the season than in any previous year.
Freshman Trevor Thieme closed out the 800 with a solid 2:08 clocking after a long layoff. Freshman Dave Foss and
sophomore Eric Collings, forced to run a shorter distance than they are accustomed to, nevertheless raced to 4:17 and 4:22,
respectively, in the 1500m. Frosh Ken Kiser and junior Jim Moss, also returning from an injury-induced hiatus, also ran strong
1500m races. Eugene Jung (shot-put), Patrick Fernando (400m), and Michael Wang (400m) all competed well, and Chris Machon (1500m) and
Jeff George (200m) ran off-distance races due to injuries. Although the cloud of injury still hangs over the team, these
performances indicate that the sun may break through soon.

Women's LAX looks to smooth out edges
By Jen Lake

Last weekend the women’s lacrosse team travelled north to participate in the William & Mary Invitational tournament. The Wildcats were
certain of two things: the lacrosse there would be some of the best this country can offer, and the weekend
would provide a glimpse of things to come. Although two of the teams appear on this season’s schedule, several more
teams are anticipated future opponents. So where do the Wildcats stand in the world of lacrosse? At the start of
a long uphill road with a lot of potential at every position. Despite dropping all five of the 25-minute matches,
flashes of what this team can really do were evident throughout the games. The team showed signs of coming together
in a way the five weeks of preseason had been unable to show. Over thirty schools were represented with Davidson
being the southernmost school. The teams played an average of four games a day, with the more established programs competing
on both Saturday and Sunday. Two keys seem to open the door to a bright future: capitalization of goal-scoring opportunities
and communication. Many scor...

See LAX on page 14.

By Lee Brumby

The Davidson women’s tennis team opened their conference season on March 5th in Chattanooga with an impressive 9-0 pounding of
the UTC Moccasins. After soundly defeating Georgia Tech 8-1 the previous day, the Wildcats sent out a clear message that
they can win in the ACC and the Southern Conference. Losing only one match in a weekend of play, Davidson’s
women proved they are prepared for the challenges ahead. Kimberly Nance, the team’s number two singles and number two doubles
player, said, “This was a really good way to start everything off. Everyone played really well.”

Experience and leadership are what make this team a top contender for the conference title. This year's lineup consists of
seniors Cyndi Hess, Jennifer Beahm, Tasha Ruth, Susannah Cobb, and Barbara Grooms, along with juniors Kimberly Nance and Nicole Wilcox.
The Wildcats, now 1-0 in conference play, will take on Western Carolina Friday. However, the team’s biggest conference challenge should
come when Davidson meets rival Furman University later in the season.
