16 THE DAVIDSONIAN

As he grabbed a bite to eat before playing to a sold-out show in Chapel Hill, Dave Matthews found time to talk about his inspirations and expectations, past and present, for the band.

February 22

Can you explain just how the band formed?

Dave: When I finished high school, after living in South Africa, I just left because I didn’t want to join the army there. I lived in New York for a while and bounced back and forth between the U.S. and South Africa, also spending some time in Europe. Then I was living in Charlottesville and working at this bar called Miller's. While living in Charlottesville, I got to meet a lot of different musicians. In about a year I wrote four songs: "Back You Up," "Recently," "Best of What’s Around," and "The Song That Jane Likes." These were the first four songs that I had finished, so I recorded those songs with some friends. So I had this tape and approached Leroy first. He played a lot of gigs at the bar I worked at, and we stayed up till the early hours in the morning very often together, and I loved the way that he played. I just approached him with these songs and said, “This is what I do and do you want to pull a band together and do a demo.” And then I did the same thing with Carter, who had just come back from L.A. I had seen him play a year before with another band, and so I approached him with this tape and asked if he would like to do a demo, and he said okay. Those were my first two choices and the first two people I approached. Stefan was next, and I approached him on the advice of someone I had been playing with for a while named John Derth, who pushed me a lot to get into songwriting. He used to play for Bruce Hornsby. Stefan was a student of his and he played mainly the upright bass. When I approached him he said cool, and he started playing about once a month with us. We rehearsed a lot in the beginning to try and get a sound because in the beginning, we had no idea what sound we were shooting for. Then a little bit after that, before we went into the studio for the first time, we hooked up with Boyd. We thought that the song “Tripping Billies” would be cool with violin. He had a band way before we started, but I felt that his focus had turned to playing with us even though his band was still going. Then the five of us went into the studio and recorded some stuff.

Could you tell from the beginning that there was the right chemistry?

Dave: Yeah, a lot of people were excited about it. Mostly producers and engineers that we knew really liked our sound, and they were all people that we respected. So we really began to get inspired and began to play at this little bar in Charlottesville called Eastern Standard, and people were coming out and really digging it. We played there every Tuesday. We eventually switched to Trax and had a keyboardist for a little while. He was great--Peter Grieser--but he just didn’t want to stay because he didn’t want to be on the road all the time. With other priorities in his life, he decided to leave.

Can you tell about your new recording contract with RCA? Who else approached you with offers?

Dave: We had a few people approach us, but RCA were the ones that were really key. They're trying to get their rock thing together, and they don’t have a lot of people signed to them. Their main thing is country music and Elvis [laughs]. They have Bruce Hornsby and the Cowboy Junkies, but we were happy that they didn’t have a big backlog of bands; we're kind of on the front burner, which is a good thing. And they can push us, but not push us like insanely hard like if we went with Epic. It’s not like they wanted us to but it would have been a different thing because they're so huge and would have asked for a lot. So we're really happy with RCA.

How long is the contract for?

Dave: It’s for at least two albums, and anything on the upwards of seven. We are shooting for a mid to late September date for our next album. We will be taking off May and June to record the album. This will be our first chance to do an all-studio album. The idea would be to record all of our songs at least once, and then listen to them and decide what we will do and how many we will put on, like how many new ones and how many jams.

How did you decide which songs went on your first album?

Dave: Just the ones we had and the versions we liked. That is basically all it was. We did that whole album all ourselves: we paid for it, we pushed it, we did all the design, everything. We are trying to get it distributed out west. So hopefully we can get the first one distributed as much as possible before we release the next one.

You are playing out in Colorado a lot, right? I know that you are trying to expand beyond the Southeast.

Dave: Yeah, we play Colorado a lot, but the Southeast is really our stomping ground. We do well up in New York and in that area. We have tied a line between here and Colorado. We are trying...To get into the Chicago area and hoping to get into California as well. So basically, the CD is everywhere we have been, and some other special places. We have done some edited versions of a few songs to be sent to radio. Once we get a couple of tunes on the radio, it will really help. Even though the album has a lot of downfalls on it, I don’t mind. I think that it was a good first effort.

I heard a rumor that you might be filming a video for MTV?

Dave: Well, we might be talking about filming a video, that they might think about. But that really hasn’t happened.

What do you think about the whole MTV generation?

Dave: Well, I think it is fine. I think that there is some crap, obviously, but there is crap in everything. But I think that MTV is a pretty cool channel; it’s kind of overwhelming. It is hard to imagine that high school is able to compete with that. I think that they are pretty responsible about putting some cool shows on there; I find that quite a lot of it is brain drain, but some of the stuff took some intelligence to make. Whether or not it spreads any cool ideas around, I don’t know. I wish that the people in the music industry were a bunch of educated music lovers that wanted to sell music from Botswana and Algeria. But it's all one-sided stuff. There is a lot of great American music that gets neglected by the powerful forces in the industry. But I think that a lot of it just gets missed. There's a lot of great stuff that young people and old people would get off on. There is just not an effort made to reach out and get that stuff. Someday we will have a video on MTV, I have nothing against it, hopefully one day. The 12-18 age group is the big market, as far as selling discs. If college kids dig you, that’s cool because they will come out and support you at the clubs, and it’s fun to hang out with college kids.

Do you remember the first album you listened to?

Dave: On my sixth birthday, I got Magical Mystery Tour. That was my first record. Then I was obsessed. All that I did with my time was buy Beatles albums. Until I was thirteen, the only music I heard other than the Beatles was my brother's. He was five years older than me, and he played a lot of Led Zeppelin and Bob Dylan. They were definitely a major influence, because they just wrote so many weird, different songs. They played really hard stuff and the lightest stuff.

What about all of the African music you heard when you were younger?

Dave: Oh yeah, because I spent so much time there, I couldn’t help it. When I write, sometimes I think, “Oh, that’s got a real African feel to it.” “Recently” has a real African groove.

What is your writing philosophy? In “Lie in our Graves” and “Best of What's Around,” it seems as though you are trying to tell people not to let their lives slip away and live each day to the fullest.

Dave: There is a lot of that emotion in it: to make the best out of the time we have. It is not really a decision that I try to make, but I try to find lyrics that I am not embarrassed to sing. When I find something I like, I say to myself, “Well, that’s not too bad; it’s not cheesy.” With lyrics I am trying to tread in the area where people will easily get something out of it but not be too blatant. The lyrics are very often a reaction to whatever song, the song gives me a feeling and the lyrics match these emotions. So when we are on stage playing live and you can’t understand what the hell I am saying, you can still get a feeling for it.

BACK PAGE INTERVIEW
Monday, March 14, 1994

THE DAVE
Dave Matthews performs at the VanRipers Music Festival.
— by Katie McKelvie

At what point in your life did you decide that music was something that you really wanted to pursue as a career?

Dave: I was really lucky because I had a lot of people pushing me. The support of some of my friends established the confidence in me that I could write: Ross Hoffman, one of the guys who is in management with us; John Derth, a trumpet player who I used to play with; and Greg Howard, who played keyboards on our last album. I knew that music was my dream, but I hadn’t really done anything with it, and they all helped me along. I had never really played live; I had sung a little with a band that a friend of mine, Tim Reynolds, was in. Tim was on our album, and he was the first person who said to me, you should really get your own band together and write songs. It was a short period between me starting to write and the band getting together. About a year after that, the band had established itself as a reasonably strong money-making machine, so we could support ourselves. Most of the writing that I have done has taken place since the band has gotten together. I write a song and present it to the band, and we put our different histories together and try to get different interpretations and stuff.

Where do you see yourself in five years?

Dave: I will be more in control of my environment. I’m assuming now that I will be doing the same thing as the present, but who knows, I could be bartending.

BY JON SANDS