2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 7, 1994

Otts Lecturer Tolbert interprets the scripture
By Christy Block

“The Bible is definitely not speaking by and for itself.” 1994 Otts Lecturer Mary Ann Tolbert explored the pertinence of
the reader in interpreting scripture during two talks delivered last week in Eu Hall. The Otts Lectures, courtesy of the
J.M.P. Otts legacy, have brought distinguished scholars to Davidson to address issues of religious life and Christian faith since 1893.
Mrs. Tolbert, Professor of New Testament and Early Christianity at Vanderbilt University, delivered talks entitled “When Resistance Becomes Repression: the
Location of the Reader” and “Who speaks for the Bible: Authority and Power” as parts of her “Feminist Hermeneutics of
the New Testament” speeches.

During the second of these talks, Tolbert discussed the problems of asserting one biblical interpretation over another, which inevitably occurs
when views of Jesus, his words, and his purpose are discussed. Views on this topic are inherently biased and tend
to back up personal political, economic and social agendas with a “divine mandate.” According to Tolbert, to interpret the Bible
for oneself is “dangerous, and powerful” because it calls for the exclusion of other interpretations. Tolbert questions the “ultimate authority”
of the Bible in church doctrine because she knows of no direct command from God for a Bible. Tolbert casts
doubts on the integrity of the church fathers who assigned books to the Bible which justify “unethical” acts such as
slavery and the oppression/submission of women.

See Bible continued on page 3

New Union Board seeks more students
By Phoebe Dean

“You can’t kick it if you ain’t got feet,” declared the new Union Board at its first meeting last Wednesday.
That slogan publicizes Union committee sign-ups on March 1-10 and reflects the new Board’s desire to involve more students in
its decision-making processes.

Sixteen different committees are responsible for Union programming: Concerts, Davidson Outdoors, Intimate Performances, 900 Room, Films, Publicity, Video, Campus Forum,
Gallery, Literary Arts, Speakers, Women’s Issues, Artists Series, F-Crew, Outpost, and Cultural Events. Committee meetings are usually held once a
week but may be held more or less frequently depending upon scheduled events.

As committee members, students have the opportunity to voice their opinions about the kinds of activities they would like to
bring to campus. They can participate in planning and publicizing the events they create. Brainstorming by last year’s committee members
resulted in Solidarity Week 1994, a lecture by Chinese pro-democracy leader Chai Ling, and a Davidson Outdoors spring break sea
kayaking trip.

“What I really liked about being on the Concerts Committee,” stated freshman and new Artists Series Committee Chairman Brad Best,
“was that it gave me leadership experience. I learned a lot, working with The Samples, and I enjoyed feeling that
I was doing something for other people.”

The Women’s Issues Committee has slated fifteen events for March (women’s history month), including forums, speakers, discussions, and a self-defense
workshop. The commitment of this committee’s members makes the variety and quality of its programming possible.

Do you have ideas? Join a Union committee. Sign-up sheets will be posted in the Union Conversation Pit until March
10.

Activist Chai Ling talks
By Russ Tarver

It was difficult to believe that the soft-spoken young woman standing at the podium in the 900 Room last week
was number four on the Chinese government’s most wanted list in 1989. Chai Ling escaped from the Tiananmen Square massacre
of June 4, 1989 in Beijing, China, with the help of strangers who kept her and her husband hidden in
a crate for over 100 hours. Chai Ling is the student leader of the democracy movement in China; however, if
she were to return to that country she would be executed. A two-time Nobel Peace Prize nominee in 1991 and
1992, Chai Ling led thousands of Chinese students in their protest of the communist regime controlling their country. On June
4, 1989, more than 300 peaceful demonstrators were killed in the Tiananmen Square massacre, during which unarmed Chinese students and
citizens were surrounded and attacked by Chinese armed forces during a peaceful demonstration. Chai Ling said that her group merely
wanted a chance to have “a public discussion with the government ... equally.” Sponsored by the Davidson College Speakers Committee,
Chai Ling began her presentation en-Titled “The Road to Freedom” with a news documentary detailing her background in communist China,
her eventual rise to power as a student leader, and the horrors she faced in that position. After the video,
those in attendance were silent as the accomplished freedom fighter said, “I wish it never happened... wish my family could
still be with me.” Chai Ling explained the birth of the student movement by describing misconceptions about her country that
she was told as a child. She said she was raised to believe that the people in China were equal
and lived “the greatest life on earth.” She described her gradual recognition of the truth about her country’s system of
government by saying that “more and more, we got our education, went to college... we soon realized that [the communist
ideal] was not reality.” Such revelations began the democracy movement. She said that the demonstrations were initially peaceful until the
Chinese government began using military force to end the movement. She noted the irony of the massacre occurring in a
country where everyone is supposed to have an equal voice: “It is not right for the government to send tanks
and troops to massacre its own peacefully demonstrating people.”

Women's Issues celebrates women's month
By Mary Laura Moretz

Women’s History Month will “set aside a special time to promote awareness of various women’s issues,” says Kristin Garris, former
Committee for Women’s Issues chair and coordinator of this month’s events. The Committee for Women’s Issues has filled the month
of March with events to honor the annual National Women’s History Month. According to Garris, the activities focus on “specific
issues such as rape awareness, self-defense, health concerns, political issues, and academic study of feminist work.” Almost every weeknight in
March offers one or more events, including an assertiveness training workshop, a forum entitled “Exploring Sexuality,” a casual discussion of
the feminist image, the annual “Take Back the Night,” and various speakers addressing women’s roles in the world. Even the
Union movies planned for this month fit into the women’s theme as they help students examine women’s roles in popular
culture. Fried Green Tomatoes plays March 9 and 11. The Color Purple shows March 17.

Garris works in conjunction with the new Women’s Issues Committee chair, junior Sarah Orsbon, and with faculty advisor Dr. Elizabeth
Mills. The committee of thirty active members meets about once a week for speakers, movies, candid discussions with female faculty
members, or study groups of such books as Our Bodies, Ourselves. Future plans include bringing men into some women’s discussion
groups for honest interaction. Orsbon feels Davidson’s awareness of women’s issues should not stop at the end of March. “There
are needs for women on campus that have not been met through other forums. With the Union, the administration, and
the faculty, our committee fills some of the support gaps.” Yellow calendars of events for the next few weeks can
be found around campus.

Chai Ling lectured about the massacre at Tiananmen Square. When pointing out the accomplishments of the Tiananmen Square incident, she
said, “After 1989, we see that nobody really believes in the communist ideology anymore.” She used the fall of the
Berlin Wall in 1990 to expound upon the sudden global rejection of communist philosophy. In closing, she explained that the
U.S. could help China by using “their leverage of political and democratic pressure to try to push China toward constitutional
reform.” Chai Ling has been in the United States for three and a half years. She was awarded a scholarship
to Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School of Politics upon her arrival. She is still trying to bring her father, brother, and
sister to the United States.

If You Missed the Cooking at BACON AND EGGS
Come See the Old Gang at...
Chat & Chew
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, NC
664-4665
NOW OPEN 24 HRS. A DAY
WELCOME DAVIDSON COLLEGE!
