_ THE DAVIDSONIAN :

NEWS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1994

Reverend Brenda Tapia tells all

By Sarah Teachworth

Because the African-American population at Davidson is small, SERCH (Students Established for Racial and Cultural Harmony) sponsored a meeting entitled “Everything You Ever Wanted to Know about Being Black, but Didn’t Have the Courage to Ask” to increase understanding. Assistant Chaplain Brenda Tapia led the discussion in the Big Screen Room of the Union Tuesday night.

Tapia began with a brief outline of her life from her birth to her college years. She was born in the “negro ward” of a local hospital and was exposed to discrimination in the earliest stages of her life. In elementary and middle school, she made good grades, but her success was hampered when North Mecklenberg High School integrated in 1965 and her school closed. In a predominantly white school, she was treated as an inferior by many of her teachers and was harassed by some of her peers. Discrimination even existed at the traditionally black college she attended, Howard University. For instance, the sorority she wanted to join did not accept dark-colored women.

Feeling confused and alienated, Tapia turned to her history for solutions. Among other remarkable feats, her African ancestors were performing delicate eye surgery centuries before such technology reached the Western hemisphere. After years of soul-searching, she concluded to "no longer define myself from the outside in, but from the inside out.”

After telling her own story, she gave the audience a chance to write questions on paper placed in a shoebox which was passed around the room. Her responses to various questions evoked a variety of reactions from the audience.

One person asked whether she thought that blacks had a stronger bond than whites because of the struggles they had to endure. Tapia says that while she doesn’t feel this is necessarily so, she has noticed that whites seem to be family-oriented while blacks are group-oriented. She believes that the reason for this is that in slave days, the only way to have a family was to consider all blacks family.

The audience went into hysterics when Tapia was asked how she feels about being asked questions for the sole purpose of discovering how a black feels about an issue. She says, “Why do people have to begin their questions with, ‘Brenda, from a black perspective...’? Of course, if they’re asking me, they’re going to get an answer from a black perspective.” Tapia advises that the best way to be more sensitive to African-Americans is to meet individuals, being certain that actions and comments come out of love.

Before she received a standing ovation, Tapia concluded, “My office is in the corner of the basement of Pryer. Please visit me any time. I get lonely down there.”

Dean Shandley to lead dinner discussion

By Jennifer Kerns

Once a month, the Chapel Committee sponsors a dinner, asking professors to give a “last lecture” with informative knowledge for students. In Dean Shandley’s case, the Committee chose a “first lecture” instead. On Tuesday, September 27, at 6 p.m., Shandley will hold a dinner discussion with students in the Union.

“We wanted to give upperclassmen a chance to meet with the new Dean in an informal setting,” says Dinner Discussions Chair Matt Rich.

Shandley wants to introduce himself to the campus and to meet students as well. He plans to discuss his personal history, how he balances his family and his career, his faith, and his first impressions of Davidson. Afterwards, he intends to open up a discussion about students’ concerns. “I don’t want it to be a speech,” says Shandley, “I want a conversation.”

Write for News. -2148.

Macintosh Performa 636 8/250 with CD-ROM, Apple Color Plus 14” Display, AppleDesign Keyboard and mouse, Only $2,083.58.

With Apple’s special low student pricing, you can get a terrific deal on Macintosh, the best-selling personal computer on college campuses today. You can choose the affordable Macintosh Performa which comes complete with lots of powerful software to help get you through college. You can also choose the portable Apple PowerBook or the Power Macintosh—the world’s fastest Mac. And because Macintosh is still the easiest personal computer, you won't have to dig through complex manuals. Plus, with low student pricing, a Mac is as easy to afford as it is to use. All of which makes it the ideal time to discover the power all college students need. The power to be your best.

For further information visit Computer Services Center

Contact Lou Duncan at x2432

*Note: Desktop systems include a StyleWriter II printer, Word Perfect, and a surge suppressor. PowerBook 150 includes 8MB RAM plus Word Perfect. All prices include shipping and handling.

©1994 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, Macintosh Quadra, Performa, PowerBook and ‘The power to be your best’ are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. AppleDesign, Mac and Power Macintosh are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.