THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1994

Health and Wellness week includes shows, fairs

By Mary Clare Jalonick

The flu season is closing in, and classes are becoming harder as the semester progresses. Davidson students are finding themselves physically and mentally drained, and the Student Health Center is trying to do something about it. This week, students will have the chance to participate in a multitude of events sponsored by the counseling center and the infirmary. “Health and Wellness Week” will include shows, fairs, and music. Dr. Ruth will speak, and the AIDS quilt will be displayed.

The week will start with a stand-up comedian. On Monday night, Davidson graduate Brad Griffin will perform at the Union Outpost, relating his own college anecdotes and emphasizing “the humorous side of life.” The show will be a coffee house sponsored by Jumpin’ Java, S.E.R.C.H., and the International Student Association. Counselor Nance Longworth, who helped organize the week, says that it is necessary to laugh every once in a while because “life is short, life is hard, and it needs to be taken with a large dose of humor.”

On Wednesday, the Health Center will sponsor a health fair entitled “Just for the Health of It.” Students, faculty, staff, and community members will set up booths in front of Chambers that promote wellness, activity, and relaxation. Students will have the chance to learn how to repair a bike or in-line skate, receive a massage or a flu shot, have their blood pressure or body fat checked, hear about Davidson Outdoors and campus safety, eat healthy foods and beverages, or play ultimate frisbee. These are only a few things that the fair will offer.

Dr. Ruth Westheimer will then come to campus Wednesday night for a much-awaited talk which will answer every student’s questions about sexual health. Her lecture, entitled “Sexually Speaking,” will be at 7:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

The culmination of the week will be Thursday night with the arrival of the NAMES Project — AIDS Memorial Quilt. Opening ceremonies will be at 7:00 p.m., and a tree will be planted as a memorial to all Davidson students who have died of AIDS. The exhibit will be displayed through Sunday. Counselor Georgia Ringle says that she hopes that every Davidson student will see the quilt “whether they have been touched by AIDS or not. People will be so impressed and moved by its size and scope.” In conjunction with AIDS and music awareness, the movie Philadelphia will be shown by the Films Committee on Sunday and Thursday nights. A student fashion show will be held on Saturday night to benefit AIDS, and a dance will follow in the 900 Room.

The week promises to be very informative for all students. Clubs, organizations, eating houses, local health centers and businesses, faculty, and staff are joining together to remind students that health is a priority. Longworth seems excited about the week. “It really is a collaborative effort. The idea is to emphasize wellness. Instead of being reactive, we are trying to be proactive in our approach.”

SGA discussion on presidential requirements continues

By Meg Wolff

“We are not debating whether or not Davidson College will retain its Presbyterian affiliations,” stresses SGA President Eric Rosenbach. “It is important for people to realize that this is merely a discussion about the college’s requirement that its president be a Presbyterian.” The Ecumenical Council, represented...by sophomore Darrell Smith, has been vocal in the recent SGA discussions. Smith argues that even though Rosenbach’s proposal is merely to evaluate the role of Student artwork on directory

New continued from page 1

artists.” Kim is pleased to have been chosen for the directory. “I gave them a selection of several of my paintings. I kind of thought they would choose ‘Lucy’ because it’s really colorful and would make a good directory cover.” He credits Stockdale for coming up with the idea of promoting student artists. Stockdale intends to visit the senior art exhibit every spring to get new cover ideas. In the future, Stockdale suggests that he might build on the idea and include a collage of several artworks. He explains that the cover is not limited to student art and that he has no plans to make the selection process into a contest.

Presbyterianism in the job of the college president, this proposal would only produce other proposals that would question and even compromise the college’s ties to the Presbyterian church. Smith says “though the Ecumenical Council recognizes that not all people are opposed to this proposed resolution, it seems that most people I have spoken to are opposed, mostly because they see this proposal as an indication that the college is drifting away from the church, and they would like to put on the brakes.” Smith also maintains that the Presbyterian church and a Presbyterian president are “sources of guidance and direction for the college, and the college should recognize the role of religion in shaping it into what it is today.”

Advocates of the proposed resolution support Rosenbach’s view that the policy requiring the president to be Presbyterian is discriminatory against qualified applicants who are neither Presbyterian nor would be willing to change their religious affiliations to become president. Also, the current policy limits the applicant pool of those who are Presbyterian and even may be discriminatory racially since there are not significant numbers of African-Americans or minorities that are Presbyterian, according to advocates. The issue will continue to be discussed in the SGA. Rosenbach emphasizes that the resolution is only in the discussion stage and that all he is trying to do right now is to promote debate on the subject. “The resolution may not ever become a resolution, let alone pass through the SGA or the trustees,” says Rosenbach, “but the debate can only be healthy for the college.”

- Nancy

Support Metrolina AIDS project and other groups at the fashion show Saturday 8:00 p.m., 900 Room

Cookie Dough Sundae is our famous cookie dough ice cream topped with rich hot fudge, chocolate whipped cream, and real cookie dough bits!

VERMONT'S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT
202 S. Main St. Davidson, NC 892-0604

Certified by American Board of Dermatology
Certified by American Board of Dermatology and American Board of Cosmetic Surgery
Specializing in Adult and Pediatric Care of the skin, hair, and nails; hair replacement surgery; liposuction; skin cancer removal, including Mohs Technique; chemical peels; spider vein treatment.

S. Schauder, M.D.
19900 Hwy 73 West
Davidson, NC 28036
LAKESIDE COSMETIC SURGERY & DERMATOLOGY CENTER
For an Appointment Call 704-892-4878

Treat yourself to Brandon's Brownie Special!
Dunks Gourmet Coffees, Tea, Hot Chocolate
Social Snacks, Gifts, Accessories
Located in Shops on The Green
Opening day November
Come savor the flavor!