Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

SO YEARS OLD

Fleas come with the dog

An old mountaineer sat rocking under an oak tree on a summer afternoon as he was being pried by a
visiting newspaperman. Frail and lame, he had not been away from his home for some time.

“The town’s getting big, I guess?” he asked.

Upon being assured that it was, he offered, “You never get the dog without the fleas.”

“What do you mean?” asked the reporter.

“You never get the dog without the fleas,” he said. “Big dog, active dog, more fleas.”

In his homespun way, the old timer was being quite a philosopher. It is certainly quite apropos to our day
and time. Davidson is in a state of mutability and expansion. Our nation is big and getting bigger. There are
many added problems—major and minor—inherent in this status. From an agricultural people, we have changed to a predominantly urban clan.
A kind of mass urban man is appearing everywhere in America—even in the South and West. Although the comforts and
improvement in the standard of living have been accepted gratefully, we are fearful about our standards of life.

The crux of the matter is that the individual man in this society is not solid spiritually. Discontent has arisen
in him. It is absurd to assume that we can still go on thinking in the terms of the old
concepts and formulas. It ought to be rather obvious that these conditions, with the influences of group thinking and psychology,
require some new formulas. We must solve these and other problems—and find a solution for that sensitive wistful fear that
is in each of us.

This is why we are at Davidson. Great moral courage and force, and a true sense of spiritual values, are
needed today more than ever before. As we struggle along the trail that leads to the great mass-man civilization, we
must find a way to make the great teachings of books, of minds, of religious truth, freely available along the
way. It ought to begin here if it has not already evidenced itself in our lives. We must learn to
take the fleas with the dog—the bad with the good—and press on through faith in ourselves, our country, and our
God. And, as always, there are signs that we will; that deep within us is some mysterious indefinable element of
God-given spirit which is our reservoir of strength in time of need. And this is the aim of education.

-1956

1954-1963

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994

LEON HOWELL, 1956-57

Blueprints & Groundbreakings

By Casey Rogers

With the war-torn forties finally over, Davidson could again concentrate on the education of young men. While daily life at
Davidson during the late fifties and early sixties differed substantially from life at the present, some events in this decade
have molded our institution into its present form. The Davidsonian was there to chronicle these changes.

A decade of building

The Davidson campus saw more construction during this ten-year period than any other in its history. When the students returned
to school in the fall of 1955, many lugged their belongings into their new home in Belk Dormitory. The Davidsonian
reported that the “large modern dormitory” cost around $900,000 and could house over 700 Davidson students. During the next year,
The Davidsonian reported the dismantling of Rumple and Georgia dorms and the plans for the new Little Dorm.

With enrollment increasing every year, Davidson’s 12 fraternities were beginning to feel the squeeze in their quaint, cramped homes on
Jackson Court. On the first Friday in April, 1957, the news section of The Davidsonian presented an architect’s vision of
the new Patterson Court houses.

Davidson then turned its focus to enhancing the campus’s classrooms. In early 1958, The Davidsonian reported plans for the new
Dana Science Building. In the fall of the following year, the college announced construction of the Cunningham Fine Arts Center,
named for the recently-retired Davidson President Dr. John R. Cunningham.

The building frenzy continued into the sixties. Plans for Richardson Hall were unveiled in...

---the January 13th issue of “The South’s Foremost College Weekly,” while the birth of Davidson’s lake campus was announced on
September 28th, 1962.

How much for the women? Because of Davidson’s all-male status, the social life centered around events that would attract women
to campus. Yes, these weekends were an oasis in the desert of academia. As one student put it in 1954,
these festive weekends brought “the indescribable invasion of skirts from the outer world.” Homecoming reigned supreme among such events, but
the traditional Midwinters and Spring Frolics weekends also generated excitement. One year, The Davidsonian reported an expenditure of $61,000 for
homecoming weekend.

The Davidson men, however, were not deprived of entertainment during the rest of the year. The Davidsonian contained a monthly
listing of the movies being shown in the Union. In March of 1954, for instance, the paper announced screenings of
All the King's Men and Miracle on 34th Street.

File photo: The 1958-59 Davidsonian top staffers included the following men pictured here in a conference: George Ramsey, Ed Armfield,
Jim Hamilton, Laurens Walker, Bill Patton, Dick Smith, and Charles Chastain.

The Artists Series also offered an outlet for entertainment. In 1954, the Davidson community enjoyed the sounds of Louis Armstrong.
Burl Ives and Ogden Nash performed in the 1955 Artist Series.

Life at Davidson: The late Chalmers Davidson proclaimed that “Davidson is a way of life.” The library’s volumes of back
Davidsonian issues create detailed annals of this way of life. A casual glance through these back issues depicts life at
Davidson between 1954 and 1963.

The first issue of 1956 contained a listing of rules and regulations for Davidson students. Here are a few unusual
ones:
- PARADES: “Student parades must be limited to the campus and athletic field.” Thoughtfully, we can now have our student
parades wherever we wish.
- DRINKING: “Davidson College is opposed as a matter of principle to the use of alcoholic beverages by Davidson students.”
Now there’s an alcohol policy for you.
- PASSING BACK: “The procedure of passing students from place to place in the Chambers auditorium over the heads of
other students is believed to be potentially dangerous and to be unbecoming at a student assembly.” No doubt this was
a popular exercise at those crazy, wacky Burl Ives concerts.

Although the rules were a bit different then, some Davidson customs and institutions that impact current classes of Davidson pupils
developed during this period. On November 17th, 1958, Student Body President John Kuykendall announced that the student body had voted
in favor of creating an Honor Council.

Sports Stuff: Each issue of The Davidsonian reported news of school athletics in a column called “Sports Stuff,” which reported
on both varsity sport news and the latest in the Interfraternity sports scene. In 1953, it reported that Davidson was
“gearing up” to play Georgia Tech. In October of 1956, the headline explains that soccer was added to Davidson’s collection
of varsity sports. In that same year, KA claimed the flickerball trophy (the game was around even then!). On February
23, 1962, the column featured a picture of Terry Holland playing a little roundball for the Wildcats.

Learning: The Davidsonian followed the school’s academic program and those who administered it. In the spring of 1956, Davidson hired
its first female faculty member, Caroline MacBrayer, an instructor in psychology. That fall, the college announced a competition for admission
into a new program studying western civilization: the Humanities program. On February 20th, 1957, Davidson reluctantly congratulated John Cunningham on
his retirement and thanked him for his 17 years of service; on May 15th, 1958, the college welcomed Grier Martin
as the new president.

A small college like Davidson creates a unique community of students and mentors. For 80 years, The Davidsonian has kept
this community on top of the happenings in its own little corner of the world. The stories run during the
school years from 1954 to 1964 help explain why we have the Davidson we have today.

RISTA AUT CONTEMPORARY FINE ART AND POTTERY
DAVIDSON, NC 28036
(704) 899-5312

Please attend the Fall Festival Friday and Saturday.
