THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994

Chatting assiduously from balcony and orchestra, the crowd of New Yorkers filed into the Philharmonic auditorium and settled among the crimson velveteen seats. Unnoticed by the swarm, I sat quietly in the center section of the lower level and listened as the heightening hum filled the emptiness of the cavernous room. Capable of deciphering only neighboring conversations, while most melted together in the distance, I considered how the current of voices was amassing in an enormity of sound as powerful as the orchestral arrangement I had come to hear.

Then I saw the conductor approach his pedestal, and the raucous assembly at once fell silent. The erect tuxedo turned to bow, and the wave of applause engulfed my tiny space in the crowd; it subsided as he faced his subordinates again. In the silence of anticipation, he lifted his hand to instruct a flute, drawing a sound out of the nothingness. The master of music continued with a flow of gestures that displayed evidence of the power in his clenching fist, and he was glorified by the obedience of his disciplined musical servants.

At the end of a performance marked by perfection, the audience applauded this figure, crediting him with accolades. I recalled this experience to illustrate that, like the fine-tuned musical performance, we were also deliberately called into being. Out of the darkness, God created the world and everything in it. If you do not know if you believe that last statement and have not yet decided your religion, a good place to begin your decision-making process is with this doctrine of "creatio ex nihilo," or creation out of nothing.

First, decide if you take the cyclical or linear approach to time. Ask yourself whether you believe that the universe is forever expanding and contracting, or if points of beginning and ending define our existence. My belief is that the world as we know it began at one point in time, ex nihilo, and at some point, it will come to an end. I came to my decision from observing the linear motion of time in which we live. For example, notice in my previous illustration that the symphony’s music began at one point in time and eventually, it ended. I also believe in linear time because Genesis, chapter one reads, "In the beginning..." which is the foundation for the doctrine of creatio ex nihilo.

The next step is to decide whether we spontaneously combusted or if we were actually created. I believe that someone created the world because, as you have observed in the world, when something manufactured exists, someone has created it. In the same way, if you are wondering who created that tree in the yard or your new baby cousin, the answer is that God created nature, which is the point we are discussing. Looking again to my musical microcosmic illustration, notice that the conductor ordered the music into existence, and it was. Basically, nothing spontaneously combusts. If we appeared out of nothingness, someone created us.

If you have agreed with me so far, then you believe in God, because part of the definition of God is "the one who created the world." Remember that you can support your belief with Genesis, chapter one, which continues to read, "In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth."

The belief that God intentionally decided to create human life delivers a message of love consistent with other Christian beliefs. The message is that God desires us to exist, and therefore He must be intimately concerned with our situation. An honest consideration of this profound truth alone will shape not only how we view ourselves, but how we look at other people and the world in which we live.

Holt Vaughan

The day I became a big boy.

Like me, life is basically a constant struggle to create more good memories than bad. I want every day to be filled with a purely raw, "fun" memory—whatever that means. So, I try. I try really hard every day to "seize the day" and live life for everything I can. But then I guess the question is—what is "fun" and what is "excitement?"

One of my friends was telling me about a time when he became so intoxicated that he passed out at ten o’clock. "It was a great time," he informed me. Another friend told me about a day he spent at the beach when he just slept in bed the whole day. "Didn’t get up once except to tinkle. Unbelievable time," he explained to me. "I can’t wait to go back this weekend. I’m really excited."

These responses puzzled me. I mean, I guess "fun" is a relative term. And don’t get me wrong, staying in bed all day and urinating sounds nice, but it doesn’t sound that great. When I think of the true, raw excitement that I have experienced, I think of the time my mom told me I was a big boy for the first time.

I don’t know about you, but when I was younger I hated wearing diapers. I must have been the last kid on the block who had to wear them. It was kind of like having bragging rights I guess. We wouldn’t really talk about it or anything like that, but everyone knew who was wearing what. It’s not like you could hide it.because diapers always made so much noise when you tried to run around and stuff. Anyway, I’ll never forget the day that I made my first step in the progression through the chain of underwear. It was a Saturday or Sunday—I know because my mom was home from work. I had been involved in intense toilet training for a few months at the time (using the “Just For Kids Jr. Toilet Adventure Set”), but I was still struggling with it. I was never known for having good aim, I guess. But anyway, this one day I was sitting on the J.F.K. Jr., concentrating, when my mom walked in, as she liked to do, to give me some helpful hints. She was always so patient and encouraging. On this day, however, I was cruising, and my mom took notice. My aim was dead perfect and I barely even looked down to check. I was relaxed, calm, and even managed to collect a few thoughts. I reached for the toilet paper and only used half the roll this time. I could tell my mom was impressed with my newfound expertise. She was a proud mother; she even clapped a little. “Oh, Holt, I’m so proud of you. You’re becoming a big boy.” I swear, at the time, those words were the closest thing to poetry I had ever heard. “And because you are a big boy now, I think you’re ready for big boy pants.” She didn’t have to say any more. I was so excited that I couldn’t control myself. I jumped up and down, started dancing around the room and singing every song that came to mind. My pants were still around my ankles, but I didn’t care. I was so purely excited that nothing else in the world mattered. Not even my private parts flying all over the place. Perhaps it is a sign of the kind of sheltered life I led, but that day was one of the most exciting times of my life. And it is that euphoric feeling that I experienced on that miraculous day of dancing and singing that I strive to have every moment of my life. And I guess you could say in the vaguest of terms that that feeling is my definition of true, raw excitement. But the problem is, it only happens every once in a while. I mean, you never know when it might happen. Sometimes it happens right before your eyes and you don’t even know it until years later. I guess that’s when you realize that you might be trying too hard.

From the sportsman so many. her prey. A over went. Actual 1985 ree water assault weapons and. brakes were anim or ees faa awe caw hy. I don’t see what he is so upset about. all Bows kal people. People kill people. My talent frightens even myself.

Dirty Limerick from page 6

R is for rhyme scheme, I feel really stupid; this doesn't have one.
S is for soccer, like watching paint dry; it doesn't beat baseball, mom, or apple pie.
T is for tobacco, only one type is banned; would the Cafe prefer if I spit in a can?
U is for ultimate, of the frisbee sort; many seem to like it but it isn't a sport.
V is for VAC, its second year here; can anyone make the Rodin disappear?
W is for workload, it's often too steep; don't be surprised to see this hall counselor weep.
X is for x, the math unknown; even though I'll fail Calc, I'll feel I have grown.
Y is for yearbook; I'm not gonna pout, but I just want to know why the hell it ain't out.
Z is for Zoom, the game has its warts; which way is Parfigliano and which way is Schwarz?

I hope you enjoyed this sampling of my poetic wit and wisdom. Cracked Egg in the Nest, my collection of poetry and short stories focusing on the ambiguity of life, will be on shelves in October.

We as a society are a sick bunch.

May I? continued from page 6

gruesome murders and all. The first few articles and interviews were fine. But where does it all stop? Why doesn’t the media just back off and let the American legal system work its magic? The reason is because we want to hear about it all. We have this primordial need to indulge ourselves with horror and ill-will. I know you’re all calling me a fool right about now because you’re sure you have no part in the whole thing. But I tell you, you are wrong. We as a society are a sick bunch. Ever watch the news or read the paper? Nothing but murders, crashes, fires, wars, and crime. Never anything good. And you better believe it’s not the media’s fault for giving us that junk. It’s our fault for asking for it. In my sincere opinion, America is in dire need of a wake-up call. Let’s give ourselves a slap in the face and take a good look at how low we’ve sunk. It’s time to dig ourselves out of this intellectual mire we’re in and begin to think positive, healthy thoughts. If we spent more time focusing on the good in our lives, maybe we’d all be better off. So, the next time I (and you too) walk through that food line and hope to never hear from another lawyer, I’ll remember much of the problem lies in myself. And by the way, if you ever get tired of drinking O.J. like me, try a nice cool glass of ice water. It’s really much less sour and easier on the stomach. But then again, that’s only one man’s taste buds talking.