THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1994

Students on trustee committees? SGA President Rosenbach pushes for more representation

By Courtauld McBryde

During Tuesday’s SGA meeting, President Eric Rosenbach proposed a plan to obtain student representation on the Board of Trustees’ Committees. The SGA will vote on the proposal of a formal resolution next week.

The Trustee Committees

There are seven Trustee Committees: Admissions and Financial Aid, ACD and Educational Policy, Athletic Policy, Buildings and Grounds, Finance and Budget, Institution and Advancement, and Campus Life. Currently, Rosenbach sits on the Campus Life Committee, and Vice-President Alison Sabel holds a position on the Athletic Policy Committee. Rosenbach conducted research regarding student representation on Trustee Committees of other colleges and universities. He concluded that “Davidson was the only school that did not have student representation on the Trustee Committees. You can see just how antiquated the Trustee system really is.”

The Proposal

The SGA will propose representation on all seven Committees, but “we'll most likely get four out of the seven,” says Rosenbach. The proposal consists of three ideas: a two-year term for each student Committee member, who would be chosen by presidential appointment; those students’ terms would start in January of the sophomore year; “this January would start with a junior-sophomore combination plan,” according to the proposal.

The future of the proposal

After the SGA votes for the approval of the formal resolution, a proposal will then be made to Dr. Kelton (assistant to the president) and President Kuykendall. “I think it’s good for students to be informed about the Trustees’ business and for Trustees to be informed about students’ business, but how that is best worked out I’m not sure,” says Kelton.

Ken Wood to retire after 20 years

By Susan Warren

In order to take a more active role in preserving the environment and in helping the community, Ken Wood is leaving Davidson. Wood, Director of Experiential Programs, is retiring after 20 years at Davidson. When Wood came to Davidson in 1974, he was in charge of the Experiential Programs, which then included outdoor programs (now Davidson Outdoors) and international internships (now coordinated by the Dean Rusk program). His job evolved to include career options for seniors. Five years ago, Wood renegotiated his contract with Davidson to concentrate on Experiential Programs, which is what he came to Davidson to do 15 years earlier.

The Charlotte internship aspect of Wood’s job will be taken over by Meredith Harris in the Careers Office. However, Wood is going to be at Davidson this entire year and emphasizes that he has not yet retired. He is still eager to talk with any student about job and internship possibilities. After retiring, Wood says he plans to travel with the Student Conservation Association, where he will go on three-month trips to explore nature. He plans on taking a “more activist” role in the environment, wanting to be as “alive as possible.” He describes his upcoming retirement as “growing old—with an emphasis on growing.”

After the SGA votes, “we (Kuykendall, Kelton, and Rosenbach) will discuss all options to resolve this issue ... we will endorse whatever seems appropriate,” says Kelton. The new resolution will be presented to the Board of Trustees at their next meeting on October 6 as an amendment to their by-laws. The proposed resolution will be tabled for vote until the next Trustee meeting in January. “I am hopeful that things will work out with the trustees. I hope that student representation will start in January even though the students won’t officially be members at that point,” says Rosenbach.

Photo by Trevor Thiene
Director of Experiential Programs Ken Wood

SGA passes basketball court

Courts continued from page 1

but “what happened in the last few weeks has not taken away the fact that people want basketball courts.” He also says that he wanted to synthesize everybody’s wants and needs. He proposed the new site in an effort to keep everyone happy.

Student Response

Many students are extremely pleased with the new resolution. The field on which the courts will be built is undeveloped, facilitating construction. The basketball players will finally have a place to play, andStudents won’t have to give up precious parking spaces. SGA passed the resolution with little debate. Junior Senator Nick Troiano urged representatives to accept the resolution, pleading with them not to get bogged down with details. “It’s a good idea, and the money is already there.” Jo Burrows, SGA representative from Connor, opposed the original resolution. After the compromise, though, she supports the new resolution: “It’s a great idea as long as the site is not being used, and this one isn’t.” Sophomore class President Warren Buford agrees. “We have appeased a majority of the people, and laid a firm foundation with the athletic department to discuss our needs in the future.” One senior is pleased with the expansion around her apartment building. “I would rather look at a basketball court than a pile of mud.”

Opposition to the New Resolution

Some seniors are not so optimistic. Julie Dawson, a resident of Martin Court F, says that “they didn’t really ask us our opinion. I wish that they had told us that this was going to happen. I guess we really can’t judge until they put it up.” Many are worried about noise and the proximity to the parking lot behind the building. Senior class Senator Chad Lloyd spoke for the senior class during the meeting, asking Rudell to be sure that the interests of residents of building F were recognized. PiKA representative Bill Gullan sees the new site as pointless. The original reason for the new courts was for people to have a place to play when Baker is closed. As of now, the courts will not be lit, so students will only be able to play there when Baker is open. He is also worried about continuing expense: “The yearly $4500 maintenance is too high.” Buford, however, encourages students to talk with their senators with any problems. “If it becomes a problem, the SGA and the athletic department will discuss it with students.”

The Role of SGA

Rudell was thrilled with the debate sparked by his proposal. “This is what SGA is all about,” he says. “After all the dust is settled, we can be happy that it all worked out the way it did; and if it wasn’t for all the debating and SGA research, we wouldn’t have been able to meet students' needs. Hopefully, this will be the first of many resolutions that can directly impact the students.”

Outpost, Cafe closed weekend evenings

By Courtauld McBryde

Students are found searching for places to eat on Fridays and Saturdays, as Campus Services decided to close the Union Cafe and the Outpost between the hours of 7 and 11 p.m. In response to the change, the Union Board formed an ad hoc committee consisting of Kristin Richardson, Katherine Ross, and Morgan Perry. The committee came to the SGA meeting on September 22 seeking support for a plan of action. A letter addressed to Carleton Pritchard, Director of Auxiliary Services, was approved and backed by the SGA. The letter stressed the lack of on-campus dining facilities during those four hours: “Considering that the houses on Patterson Court do not serve dinner on these two nights, a large percentage of the student body is left with no campus food service.” The SGA and Union Board stand hopeful and eager to reach a compromise with Pritchard. Perry says, “Pritchard decided that he was losing money. It’s a sticky situation.” One junior class member agrees with the SGA and Union's discontent, saying that “students should have a dining option on-campus so that if students are drinking, they don’t have to drive to get something to eat.”

Dairy Queen® stores are proud to introduce a new treat for you! Introducing the new Strawberry Shortcake. Made with soft-serve or non-fat frozen yogurt, moist yellow cake, and rich strawberry topping. But hurry to a participating Dairy Queen store because something this good can't last! We treat you right.