16 rue Pavipsonan

BACK PAGE INTERVIEW MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1994

the secrets behind her best-seller novels.

She was not what I was expecting. I took a glance to my left as I approached the front of the Guest House. I saw a shiny black limousine with a large chauffeur standing silently to its side (later I was to find out that the chauffeur was an ex-Navy Seal). Walking up the steps, I could feel the sharp-edged note cards in my pockets on which I had scribbled my questions for Ms. Cornwell. I took each step slowly, collecting my thoughts and straightening my belt. I had met her once before, but the aura of a bestselling, award-winning author had not hit me that time like it did at this moment. Going to talk to a big shot mystery author with five critically acclaimed novels, a long black car, and a chauffeur made of steel was enough to intimidate me out of my socks.

Once I was in the Guest House, I again had a chance to let my imagination take control of my rational thoughts. I just knew she was going to come striding into the lounge with a feather wrap draped around her neck and with a long, black cigarette holder wedged between her fingers like a character from an Agatha Christie novel. My ridiculous assumptions couldn’t have been more wrong. Her wonderful, down-to-earth attitude and straightforward personality hit me almost immediately and called to attention what a silly stereotype I had made. As I talked with her, I realized how much she had to say about her novels and life in general, and how much I had to learn from her.

Why did you choose the mystery writing genre and specifically mystery writing about serial murderers?

I have never read mysteries, and interestingly enough, I do not call what I write mysteries, because those tend to be more formula-oriented books that adhere to conventions of a very old genre. It’s like doing a Rubik’s cube. I tend to be more of a nonfiction writer who simply tells a story that reflects what I see going on outside my window.

I know that you wrote three books which went unpublished before Postmortem was published in 1990. I’m sure after writing three books which were turned down you were pretty frustrated. Where did your energy and drive to keep writing come from? What kept you going?

The same thing that keeps me going now: I have a passion for writing. There is just nothing I would rather do. I love it so much that if I couldn’t do it anymore, I’m not sure I would want to be here anymore. It’s where I find myself. It’s the world where I’m happiest. It’s my interior world. I have no way to explore that interior world unless I do it through writing. For some people it would be music or painting, but for me it is words. So writing is not a job or even a hobby. It is a relationship. I couldn’t quit. I don’t know how to quit. I tell you what it is like, and I’ve said this many times to people. They look at me like it is a very odd thing. Writing is not a job or even a hobby. It is a relationship. What I do is a relationship. It’s not work. Many times it is quite odious, and hideous, and aggravating. We don’t get along, and sometimes we decide we’re going to split up, but of course we never do.

What do you find to be difficult about your relationships with your characters and your writing?

We both get tired. They do what they want to do and they don’t listen to me. That’s for certain. It takes a lot of energy. It’s very hard work. It’s like any relationship. In order to make it work, it takes a lot of energy and writing takes as much energy. I’m exhausted when I finish a book.

In your new book, The Body Farm, you incorporate many mother/daughter relationships, some of which are negligent, destructive, and even deadly. Is there a reason why that theme came out in your book?

There is nothing worse than a maternal figure who is evil, because evil...is all about people taking power over others who have no power. Nothing is more powerless than a child in the hands of a mother or a father who is aberrant in some way. I think that for me, my most horrifying experiences when I was a little kid were really at the hands of a foster mother who was cruel. I wasn’t around my father, so that was an absence that was very painful, but at least he wasn’t there being cruel. There may be some of that [in the book], but I think that the whole parent-child situation is so... it just breaks my heart when you think of a child that has no power being tormented and nobody knows it.

I know you have a close connection with your main character, Kay Scarpetta, through the first-person narrative of your writing. I was just wondering how you arrived at writing your books in first person as opposed to third person.

I experimented with all those voices when I first began these novels, and they all felt awkward. The first person for some reason was what it was telling me to do. It was pulling me into taking on the persona of this character (Kay Scarpetta) because I thought what was most important was for me to write about what it feels like to be her. If I didn’t do it in first person, I would have to show a lot of things that I really don’t want to show. I don’t want to show crimes happening like in Postmortem. I don’t want to show those women being strangled. I don’t want to show the killer unless Scarpetta happens to see him for some reason. I feel safe being with her, but it is a very unsafe world to be away from her. I don’t want to leave her shoes.

I found when I read The Body Farm your characters seemed to develop even more dynamically and realistically than in the previous novels. Was this a conscious change, or did it just happen that way?

I think it is just a natural evolution that with each book I know them better and I’m more interested in who they are. They’re getting older and changing. When you have a series, it is inevitable that with each book your characters have reached another stage in their own lives. You have to address that, so I have to let them tell me where they are in their lives and what is going on with them. I get surprised. I didn’t plan for Scarpetta to have an affair. She did that right when I was standing there. I told her not to, but she wouldn’t listen to me. I didn’t know Lucy was going to be gay. They just tell me what they are and I just report on it. With each book it evolves more and more. It is really a very intuitive process.

I find your books very frightening at times. I was wondering if you ever get scared by your own books.

Not really, but I will say that there are times like when I was working on the whole business of the little girl. I couldn’t write at night when I was doing that. When I was doing Cruel and Unusual and was dealing with Eddie Heath and his body against the dumpster, I couldn’t write at night. I would just get really scared. I thought I was just being scared because the house was creaking, but it was really because it was disturbing me on a deep level. This is very real to me. I’ve seen cases like this. In fact, I don’t write at night much at all anymore unless I feel very safe somewhere like in a hotel. I really can’t, because I get scared.

As I walked out of the Guest House with my Body Farm T-shirt (a novel souvenir) in hand, I knew that having a chance to talk one-on-one with Patricia Cornwell was quite an unusual and fascinating experience. As gripping and fascinating as her novels are, she is as a person. She has let her characters lead her through her writing and has kept her feet on the ground in determination, both of which can be attested by her success as a multi-award-winning novelist.

BY JOHN COPENHAVER