6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1994

The Dean Rusk Program

Menkhaus speaks on lessons for United Nations peacekeeping

By Graham Ernst

Last Monday, Davidson Professor Dr. Ken Menkhaus discussed the relationship between United Nations peacekeeping missions and United States involvement in Somalia, Rwanda, and Haiti. His analysis of each mission resulted in four recommendations for improvement in the future.

Dr. Menkhaus spent last year in Somalia as a special advisor to the U.N. sanctioned UNICEF mission and is currently on a fellowship at the Peacekeeping Institute of the Army War College in Pennsylvania. He is expected to return to Davidson’s political science department next fall.

While Dr. Menkhaus refused to address the issue of where the U.N. should and should not intervene, he was very clear in describing guidelines for success when intervention does occur. Unfortunately, these guidelines were the result of failures of the UNICEF mission which have now been titled “the Somalia Syndrome.”

Foremost, Dr. Menkhaus cited the conditions under which the U.S. and the U.N. went into Haiti as a problem from the start. The mission was expected to be a “litmus test” for aggressive peacekeeping under U.N. approval. Many thought that UNICEF would become a forerunner for future containment of global anarchy. However, General Adide and other Somali warlords knew that the U.N. was under pressure to succeed in a short period of time. These warlords were willing to wait out the foreign peacekeepers, decreasing U.N. bargaining power.

The pressure for immediate success by the U.N. and the U.S. also created a discrepancy between the U.N.’s ability to take on the massive task of rebuilding the Somali state and satisfying pressures to bring the troops home soon and unharmed.

Finally, the U.N. political analysts greatly underestimated what it would take to rebuild the Somali state. Instead of simply reviving the wounded government, the U.N. officials arrived to find a government that was “D.O.A.” As a result, there was great difficulty in finding legitimate sources of political authority besides clan warlords. This fact forced the U.N. to expand upon President Bush’s initial goal of the mission which was to provide humanitarian aid.

During the current mission in Haiti, several things have been done that were not done in Somalia leading to greater success. Foremost, U.S. troops quickly disarmed Cedras’ attaches. Second, reserve officers with better human relations skills and sound knowledge of Haitian language and culture were used to a greater extent than they were used in Somalia.

Dr. Menkhaus concluded his speech with suggestions for increased future success in peacekeeping missions. First, the U.N. should only intervene when it has the means and the will to solve the country’s problem at its root despite what CNN cameras show day to day. This does include accepting casualties. Second, peacekeepers must understand that their role balances between neutrality and impartiality. It is nearly impossible to mediate negotiations and enforce peace simultaneously. Third, the U.S. should propose reforms for the U.N. to decrease its slow bureaucratic power and internal corruption. Finally, the U.S. should consider establishing a corps of peacekeeping troops with extensive policing skills to accommodate the needed “sensitivity to culture” that is required for future success.

This Week in Washington

U.S. and North Korea reach agreement over nuclear weapons

By Andrea Short

Last week, American and North Korean negotiators apparently settled the question of North Korea’s potential nuclear proliferation. After a discouraging, two-hour meeting on Sunday, negotiators managed to reach a compromise that promises North Korean nuclear reform with the assurance of substantial U.S. and international aid.

A previous accord had been reached in early August; however, North Korea reneged on this agreement. They demanded two billion dollars to compensate for abandoning their nuclear reactor program and objected to U.S. inspection.

Originally the nations had agreed on a nuclear freeze in conjunction with gradual concessions from the United States such as diplomatic recognition, but after North Korea’s new demands, the nations were forced to reevaluate negotiations last week.

Robert Galluci, the chief American negotiator, reported Monday that an agreement had been reached, but no specifics of the accord would be released until Clinton approved the terms. Galluci flew back to Washington D.C. to meet with the Administration and some key Congressional members, intending to return to Geneva on Friday if Clinton agreed to the accord. While the two nations maintained some secrecy about the accord’s terms during the week, U.S. officials kept South Korea informed throughout the talks.

Tuesday afternoon Clinton released the terms of the agreement and announced his approval of the talk’s results. “This agreement will help achieve a longstanding and vital American objective — an end to the threat of nuclear proliferation on the Korean Peninsula,” Clinton remarked after meeting with foreign policy advisors.

North Korea agreed to replace their graphite nuclear reactors with more modern light-water reactors that produce less weapon-grade plutonium. Allowing full inspections, followed by dismantling thenuclear reactors, and, finally, disposing of the controversial nuclear fuel rods comprise North Korea’s main responsibilities. In response, Clinton has authorized a four billion dollar energy aid package spread over the next ten years if North Korea follows this freeze/disarmament timetable. The accord includes aid from numerous other countries besides the United States. South Korea and Japan will head a group of nations in providing North Korea with the light-water reactors. South Korea will provide half of the costs of replacing the nuclear reactors while Japan will contribute approximately thirty percent of these expenses. Both nations have a strong interest in ceasing any North Korean attempt to build nuclear weapons. Germany, Russia, and the United States are expected to contribute the remaining funds.

While Clinton proclaimed success, last week the Pentagon and the International Atomic Energy Agency expressed reservations about the accord’s weaknesses. Pentagon sources question the United States’ promise to supply heavy oil for factories and homes; they fear that the oil will be used to strengthen the North Korean army. Also, the International Atomic Energy Agency officials expressed concern over allowing North Korea to retain control over nuclear weapons for several years. As one agency official explained, “this means that we are living with a country that flouted the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and will remain in non-compliance for years. We wanted to get that fuel out of the country, and out of the country fast.”

Sources include: the October 18, 19, and 20 issues of The New York Times.

Inter-study representative will meet with students interested in studying in Britain, Ireland, and Belgium. Friday 10:00 a.m. in the Big Screen Room.

NOTES

The charred bodies of 48 men, women, and children—members of a secretive religious sect known as the Order of the Solar Temple—were discovered in two Swiss villages, a tragedy that included apparent suicides and what local authorities described as “collective murder” made to appear as mass suicide. In a fire-damaged farmhouse in Cheiry, a village north of Geneva, police discovered 23 dead men and women wearing ceremonial vestments. Fifty miles away, in Granges-sur-Salvan, investigators found 25 additional bodies in three burned-out chalets. Many had bullet wounds indicative of point-blank execution. Almost simultaneously, Canadian authorities reported the death of five more suspected cult members near Montreal. Police are searching for the cult’s two leaders, Luc Jouret, a Belgian homeopath who emigrated to Switzerland via Canada, and Joseph di Mambro, a French Canadian. As reported in the October 17, 1994, issue of Time Magazine.

Turning dropouts into scholars

It’s a notorious corner in the South Bronx—once a grand address, now the hub of the nation’s poorest neighborhood. Today, at 149th Street and the Grand Concourse, a public high school for at-risk children defies Darwin on a daily basis. Inside Hostos-Lincoln Academy of Science, a class of seniors grapples with “The Seafarer,” an Old English poem about danger, survival, and destiny. None of these teenagers was expected to ever navigate into the treacherous pages of medieval lit. In fact, their eighth-grade counselors had written off most of them as probable dropouts, based on low reading scores and spotty attendance. Now, after four years here, more than 80 percent are headed for college. “The Anglo-Saxons thought every person’s fate was predetermined,” the teacher, Vincent Sottile, reminds the class. “But we know we have to help ourselves.”

Now is the time to speak up! Davidson College is in the midst of a comprehensive self-study that includes all areas of campus life. One focus of the self-study is "Information Technology," which includes computer use, service, and support; audio-visual matters; and technology in the library. All members of the Davidson community—students, staff, and faculty—are urged to communicate ideas for the future, observations about the present, and suggestions pertaining either to the Information Technology Self-Study Committee (#7 Jackson Court) or to individual members of the committee: John Casey (Computer Services, co-chair), Theo Curry (student appointee), Linda Erickson (Financial Aid), Polly Griffin (Registrar), John Heil (Philosophy, co-chair), Peter Krentz (History), Grant Jones (Anthropology), Leland Park (Library), Mitch Rhea (Chemistry), and Mary Thornberry (Political Science). Committee members can be reached by e-mail.

Paramount Parks

Paramount Parks is holding auditions to cast the upcoming 1995 show season at Paramount's Carowinds in Charlotte, North Carolina! 1995 will feature an all-new Paramount On Ice™, costume character shows, roving bands, vocal groups, and a comedic/improvisational actor program featuring popular Star Trek® aliens. We need experienced singers, dancers, actors, costume character performers, instrumentalists, technicians, and variety performers of all types!

For more information write or call:
Paramount's Carowinds
P.O. Box 410289, Charlotte, NC 28241
704.587.9011

CHARLOTTE, NC
Saturday, November 5, 1994
Sunday, November 6, 1994
Paramount's Carowinds
The Paramount Theatre
2:00-3:00 Instrumentalists
3:00-5:00 Singers, Actors, Technicians, Variety Performers
4:00-5:00 Dancers, Show Characters

COLUMBIA, SC
Monday, October 31, 1994
University of South Carolina
Russell House Ballroom
2:00-3:30 Singers, Actors, Technicians, Instrumentalists, Variety Performers
2:30-3:30 Dancers

PARAMOUNT
™ & Copyright © 1994 Paramount Parks Inc. ® and © 1994 Paramount Pictures. Star Trek is a registered trademark of Paramount Pictures. All Rights Reserved.