8 tue pavipsoman OPINIONS _ Sunday, April 1994

“I can’t go because it’s the two-year mark of my child’s abortion.” I felt nauseous. My best friend of four years had dumbfounded me. Two years before, we had been seniors with graduation ahead. There was nothing else of those days in my mind. Now, he whispered his most painful secret, a secret that had evolved when we were inseparable. I questioned him. The girl, a weekend fling, had simply told him she was having an abortion. He gave her money, went with her, and never said another word. Now, in a pained voice, he told me he hated the springtime because he could only dream about who his child might have been. His actions, he said, had been careless and thoughtless. The silence that followed was harsh and accusing. I had never seen abortion as real. It was something far away that I was too weak and afraid to take a stand on. I would never do it, I imagined. And I was scared to see my friends do it, but it was something I didn’t feel I could keep them from doing. The religion and morals I grew up with said not to believe in it, and the compassion I held for people told me to understand their situation to truly help them. This behavior was hypocritical when it came to abortion. I never dared think more about it because in my attempt to be open-minded and yet true to myself, all the arguments overwhelmed me and led me nowhere. Now my best friend had told me that he had helped to abort a child. My mind played out the “what if they had the child” scene. I saw the two most popular kids in the school, because they were beautiful and talented with good families, and I understood a small piece of their dilemma. The pain and loss were in his voice and eyes when we met later. He would have been a wonderful father and he felt he had dodged responsibility through selfish actions. Suddenly, I understood his depression and helplessness of the past year. He was battling his younger actions and losing to his present maturity. There was nothing he could change, however. The decision was made from a point of reference which no longer existed. Although it filled me with the most overwhelming sadness, I understood that for him to be able to go on, there was no way I could tell him what he had done was wrong. I made a conscious decision. He had helped this young lady and himself continue their lives as best he could at the time, and the issue of carelessness and thoughtlessness was much smaller because of that fact. I have failed in some great intellectual sense about abortion. Pro-choice is more extreme than I am comfortable with. Although I would like to consider myself Pro-life, I have realized that view may fail my friends at crucial points in their lives. When he was hearing the cries of infants and I was hearing his cries, I could never have looked in his eyes and said, “You were wrong.”

Lori Brown

Peas Davidson's Code of Irresponsibility

Falling into bed around 2:00 a.m. on a recent Sunday morning, I found myself still wide awake at 3:00 a.m. The noise outside my apartment window prevented me from sleeping. In addition to heavy rock music blaring from a nearby apartment, there were drunken individuals screaming at each other and slamming doors. As I lay in bed, I grew angry. Anger finally turned into action as I made my way out into the cold night air to ask the students to keep it down. I quickly realized that my polite request was falling on deaf ears, because the students were too intoxicated to understand me. After enduring the flirtations of a very drunken male, I finally made my way back to bed. When my alarm clock rang at 8:30, I was anything but happy. Since that restless night, I have come to a few conclusions. On the night just described, I became a victim. At Davidson, one can rarely go through a day without hearing the words “equal rights.” On this particular night, my right to sleep was violated. These students had absolutely no right to keep me awake until 3:00 a.m. But in addition to having my rights violated, I became a victim of something far deeper and more serious. I became a victim of an irresponsibility that invades all aspects of Davidson life. We have very effectively replaced the necessity of taking responsibility for our actions with such key phrases as “just having fun” or “stress relief.” These phrases have become the foundation for our excuses. The most absurd excuse that I have heard this year is that drunkenness is acceptable for Christians because Jesus Christ also liked to have a good time. Upon hearing a fellow student assert this opinion, I did not know whether to laugh or cry. Just for the record, there is absolutely nothing Christian about drunkenness. Unfortunately, student behavior often convinces me that Davidson students are not a highly selective group of intellectual students but rather a highly selective group of hypocrites. Regardless of which fancy words we choose to use, the fact remains that we have mastered the art of justifying irresponsible behavior with irresponsible excuses. Is this something of which we are proud?

The Course Guide is a noble endeavor.

Book continued from page 6

to look up the files and high school grades of their freshman advisees. Second, we think that because students employ their teachers, students should be able to evaluate their teachers. Third, we think that if faculty/student relations cannot withstand honest communication, then the relations are not fragile but false. Finally, you contend in your fifth section that Davidson’s size makes a course evaluation system like Harvard’s unnecessary. You write that “a college student may need a map to navigate the streets of Cambridge, but if we lose our way walking down Main St., Davidson, we need only to stop and ask for directions." Clearly, the hundred courses offered at Davidson during the fall semester are fewer than the number of courses offered at Harvard or Amherst, but we are confident that a course guide at all these institutions will help students select appropriate courses. We maintain thatThe Course Guide is a respectable endeavor. 

Sincerely, 
Jamie McConnel, ‘96 
B.J. Rudell, ‘95 

Self-interest is the crux of human nature, and has been throughout history.

Faulty continued from page 7

She continues, only to declare, “If Communism had given its citizens a standard of living comparable to modern industrialized countries, it would still exist today.” That is exactly the point. Since Communism never delivered its citizens from the mediocrity of its false “we are all equal” premise, it was doomed to certain failure. What Kreiling has apparently overlooked in her high school history classes is that the progress of our nation, the progress of the Western culture, and, for that matter, of all humanity, has always been, and always will be, based not on public institutions but on self-interest. Self-interest is the very crux of human nature—it has been throughout the course of history the only driving force behind all dazzling scientific discoveries, all admirable political compromises, and all brilliant art creations.

Here, time and time again, Kreiling misses the point. Her argument on anarchy is a slippery slope—a logical fallacy of exaggeration. By no stretch of the imagination could we call Adam Smith’s free market principle of “laissez-faire” an anarchy, which is exactly what Kreiling does. Capitalism, and subsequently self-interest, means the economic system in which individuals are awarded the God-given freedom to own property and to conduct business as they choose. Anarchy, on the other hand, means refusal to comply with any established social rules and regulations. I don’t know where all the Kreiling-style advocates of pseudo-equality went to school, but history teaches that this great country was founded to preserve precisely these privileges, which in turn combine to make up society’s laws and limitations.

Eliminating self-interest won’t solve the problems Kreiling envisions. Neither will pouring more money into the insatiable black hole of LBJ’s social welfare legacy and the dismal repercussions thereof. Breaking with the New Deal tradition of giving cash directly to the beneficiaries, later utopian efforts to eradicate poverty took on the Kreiling form of trickle-down government in which home builders, school systems, and welfare workers all received massive infusions of federal funds. All that was accomplished was the quadrupling of government spending and the birth of a new social class too eager to stretch out a seemingly helpless hand and too unwilling to sweat for a living. The very pillars on which this civic liberalism stands are rotten and therefore sure to crumble.

Thus, Kreiling’s concept of feeding and housing the poor, without making them first deserve it, is a by-product of what is known as “money liberalism”—the sum of all the adverse effects on public morale that such a government intervention in the market system will most likely bring about. The bottom line is not whether the government should shell out another couple billion dollars to keep all those drippy-eyed do-gooders, incessantly obsessed with giving away other people’s money, at bay. The task at hand is how to teach most effectively all the idle welfare addicts to bake, how to instill in them the frame of self-interest and self-respect so that they can make it on their own. Only then will we move towards a society of mutually shared values, rather than a community patched up by a welfare government too self-confident to reconsider its icons and too shortsighted to see and recognize the real long-term interests of its members.

King Easter past

Now that I’m back from spring break and my tan has nearly faded, I can start thinking about something other than the beach, volleyball, and Sega football. One thing I have recently reflected upon is Easter (which is a far better holiday than St. Valentine’s Day because you don’t need a date; which is, of course, nice for me and Nathan Seay, although I’m sure that his spring break dreadlocks have the girls swooning). As I think about “what Easter means to me in 350 words or less,” I remember the Easter I celebrated twelve years ago. So, in my best Rosie Molinary style, here is my most memorable Easter.

It started out like most Saturday mornings for me. After finishing a breakfast of corn flakes and bananas, I began getting sleepy, so I proceeded to place my bowl and spoon in the sink and head for my parents’ bedroom so I could sleep in their king-size bed. Actually, it had been months since my mother had slept there, but I could still feel her presence somehow in the sheets and pillows. As I lay there trying to sleep, my fourth-grade mind began to drift. “When is Mom coming home?” I thought. I wish this pillow was her. I can’t wait until tomorrow. Even though I don’t believe in the Easter bunny anymore, I’m still looking forward to the candy. I hope Mom will be back from the hospital to take me to Easter mass.

Suddenly, I heard the front door open, and I was awakened by my Dad’s heavy footsteps. As he walked into his bedroom, I lay there feigning sleep so that he would not kick me out of his bed yet. “Robby,” he said in a firm tone, “I need to talk to you for a second.” “Yeah Dad,” I sleepily answered. This is the first time I have ever seen my father cry, I thought as he began speaking. Then, through the tears, he sobbed, “Robby, last night your mother passed away.”

That Easter I learned firsthand how empty, painful, and inexplicable life is. I truly experienced the despairing words of the Psalmist which Jesus quoted as he hung on the cross, “Eloi, Eloi, lema sabachthani. (My God, my God, why have you forsaken me)” From such complete failure, however, arises hope. With all of the joy, sadness, despair, and hope mixed together, life has continued for me. Jesus rose from the dead on Easter Sunday, not so we could lead easier lives, but so that after any tragedy we might be able to pick ourselves up, shake the dust off of our soiled clothes, and trudge on with at least a glimmer of hope to look towards. It’s that glimmer which gets me out of bed in the morning. It’s that glimmer which keeps me from simply killing myself in the face of life which seems to have no meaning. It’s that glimmer which can make every day Easter Sunday.