THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 1994

Winter Wonderland
Snow and ice wreck travel plans before and after the break.
By Ashlyn Dannelly

Hazardous travel conditions threw a wrench in the plans of many students both before and after Christmas. On Wednesday, December
22, Residence Life posted flyers warning students of impending icy weather. The flyers, along with messages distributed through the voice
mail system, urged remaining students to plan their driving routes carefully, and to leave as soon as possible in order
to avoid accidents.

Jay Jennings, a junior from Philadelphia, saw those warnings, but could not leave on Wednesday as he had a fourth
exam to take on Thursday, December 23. He left immediately after his exam to avoid traveling on Christmas Eve, but
had an accident in northern Virginia, five hours into his planned nine-hour drive. Jennings says, “there might have been ice
on the road, but I think I just fell asleep.” Although his car was damaged beyond repair, Jennings was fortunately
not injured. As a result of his wreck, Jennings says, “I really think they should change the academic schedule to
avoid this type of thing.”

When returning to Davidson after the Christmas holiday, numerous students encountered icy weather again, causing several wrecks and stranding many
people at home. Junior Kathy Oakes arrived in time for Wednesday classes, but had to fly from Charlottesville, Virginia, instead
of driving as she had planned. She says, “I was lucky we had one four-wheel-drive vehicle so I could get
to the airport and get here by Wednesday. My car is still stuck in my driveway.”

The bitter cold weather continues and ice still covers several areas of the road and sidewalks on campus. Fortunately, warmer
weather, possibly in the 50s, has been predicted for this week.

Aid available to Midwest students

WASHINGTON (CPS) -- An additional $20.9 million in aid has been made available to 32,000 college students whose families suffered
financial hardship as a result of last year’s flooding in the Midwest, Education Secretary Dick Riley announced. The funding supplements
$30 million in emergency federal Pell Grants that the department made available to needy students in August, 1993. Some of
the money may be used to let college students assist in recovery and cleanup.

The $20.9 million will be awarded through campus-based programs, which include federal work-study of $8.3 million, Perkins Loans of $4.6
million, and federal Supplemental Education Opportunity Grants of $8 million. Students interested in applying for funds should contact campus financial
aid offices.

(CPS) -- Penn State established a drug and alcohol-free dorm area for students who don’t want to be in an
environment where drugs and alcohol are prevalent, officials said. The third and fourth floors of a dorm are part of
LIFE House, or Living In a Free Environment. Residents who live on these floors sign a contract to not use
drugs, alcohol, or other controlled substances.

“One of the reasons the university created LIFE House is to serve as an alternative to living with students who
use alcohol -- neighbors whose behavior translates into all kinds of disciplinary problems,” said Bryan Moody, assistant coordinator for residence
life. Some students who live in the drug-free zone have parents who are addicted to alcohol or drugs, or because
they themselves are recovering alcoholics or drug addicts.

MLK b-day

MLK continued from page 1

is not sure if African-Americans’ lives are better off today than they were 30 years ago. Taylor continued speaking about
the present situation for African-Americans. He names black-on-black crime as the most significant threat to blacks today. Of the 11,175
African-Americans killed in the United States last year, 94 percent were killed by fellow African-Americans. Taylor feels that there are
too many guns in the United States, and that the number of murders could be reduced if the number of
guns were reduced.

The speaker did not offer answers to the problems in America today. He believes in the power of God and
still hopes for equality despite the racism he sometimes faces. The service included songs performed by the Second Sunday Men’s
Quartet, which was actually a trio from Davidson United Methodist Church, and by the

Returning from abroad brings culture shock
By Sally Stone

For most Davidson students, returning from the one-month Christmas hiatus is a shock to their systems. The students on leave
or abroad last semester returned to Davidson last week following a seven-month separation. Many experienced culture shock. After spending last
semester in Oxford, England, junior Scott Hile describes his homecoming as an adjustment. Reintegrating himself to the academic schedule and
social system “takesa while to get accustomed to,” Hile comments. Davidson remains much the same, however, Hile notes. He remarked
that while he was expecting Davidson to exhibit some differences, it has not changed that much. Hile had expected to
witness changes in social regulations he heard about, yet has not yet noticed the difference. The many new faces around
campus, especially the freshmen, were a new experience, Hile said. T.K. Tibby, a junior, went on the Davidson in Beaufort
program in the fall and comments on the unfamiliar faces she has seen. She “feels like a freshman again” as
she meets these strangers. Tibby’s renewed energy and excitement upon returning to campus also remind her of freshman year. She
states that she feels “charged” after spending a semester away from Davidson. She is ready to tackle the courses which
were not available to her last semester, such as Spanish. Like Hile, Tibby expects to find changes within the college
system, although she has yet to feel the impact. For example, as a Bonner scholar, she understands that she will
find changes within the program and must adjust. For the most part, Davidson life is found just as it was
left by these students in May. For returning students, Davidson proves that while subtle changes occur, its foundation remains firmly
rooted in place.

Night classes chase chill
By Martha Knight

At a time of the year when it seems hard to escape cabin fever, Davidson College can liven up your
nights for a week in January. Assistant Director for Programs Sherry Malushizky is offering January Chill Chasers. Students, faculty and
staff, and members of the community have the opportunity to participate in several different one-night courses during the week of
January 24-28. For those students who are hesitant to take extra classes, they can be assured that these courses are
just for fun. Participants can learn such things as what handwriting reveals about their personalities, how to use self-defense techniques,
how to plan a trip to Europe on a student budget, what ancient stories can teach individuals about their inner
beings, and even how to throw darts. Davidson faculty and staff and other professionals in the community act as instructors.
The courses take place at different locations on and off campus. The cost is only a $1.00 registration fee except
for instances where a material fee is also required. In order to register, mail a registration form by January 10
to Chill Chasers, P.O. Box 1780, Davidson, N.C. 28036 Attention: Sherry Malushizky. It is also possible to sign up at
the College Union Ticket Office from 2 PM-6 PM January 18-21. Courses fill on a first come first serve basis.

Leaders trek to Rio Grande
Nature continued from page 1

It became evident that everyone was going to become ill. According to Ed Daugherty, co-director of Davidson Outdoors, it was
“good foresight on the part of the trip leaders to turn back.” Trip leaders Brooks, Carolyn Hanson, and Jonathon Seebach
may lead the Everglades trip again this spring. The trip to the Rio Grande was only open to the experienced
Davidson Outdoors trip leaders. After traveling for 36 hours by bus, the group of 11 canoed down 83 miles of
river and hiked in the Big Bend mountains in west Texas. In addition to bathing in a hot spring of
over 100 degrees, the group learned wilderness first aid. They also worked hard to preserve nature. After camping out beside
the river each night, the group carefully packed up everything. “We worked hard to make it as untouched by us
as possible,” says sophomore Miles Mowry. Sophomore Claudia Lombard describes the scenery “like nothing I’ve ever seen in my life.
The first night we drove in and camped out in the pitch dark. When we woke up, we saw a
big beautiful sunrise and all of the mountains. It was amazing.” Mowry describes the trip with awe. “Basically it was
a pilgrimage, an adventure, and an amusement park ride all in one. It was great.”

A LITTLE PEACE MUSIC
Faculty recital
* 8:00 p.m.
* January 31
* Hodson Hall

This benefit is sponsored by Peace on Earth; the funds go to refugee women and children. Tickets are $5 at
the door. Come and hear Jane Snyder, violin, Diane Thornton, mezzo-soprano, Christine Hinson, viola, and Cynthia Lawing, piano.
