50 YEARS OLD The Davidsonian 1974-1983

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994

FROM THE EDITOR MERIDETH DURDEN DOLAN, 1979

Memories good enough to eat

I was editor of The Davidsonian in 1979, the low-tech, full-fat days. I can’t remember many of the campus issues from that time, but I remember everything we ate: Enormous Fritos (“big enough to dip”) out of crackly orange bags during our weekly meetings in that airy attic conference room; New Ranch-Style Fritos as we proofread in that dank basement office, pigging out with a wonderful proofreader called Aida Doss. She could spot a typo 30 feet away (and a dip-sized chip from ten); Microwaved apple danish at 8 a.m. as we sat in the snack bar, lamenting the lack of ads with the business staff. Microwave cooking was fairly new—if you didn’t eat your danish quickly, it coagulated into a stiff mess; so we ate quickly; Frosted Pop Tarts with the sports staff, all knobby knees, active verbs and furor over Furman’s win as we sat on the common and discussed the sports section; Cheesecake off white paper plates at the Peregrine House. Patsy Daniels (as Patricia D. Cornwell was then called) was a waitress there and a features editor at The Davidsonian. Together, we feasted on the new “amaretto” cheesecake and tried to decide if anybody actually read the poetry inserts.

The content of the paper escapes me, but the process doesn’t. The meetings in hot, high rooms, the proofing in low, dark ones, endless sessions in that editorial office with the one great window and low-tech layouts using hot wax. We all wanted the same thing: to WRITE and BE READ. We wanted to have our thoughts beamed out across campus and shone back at us. In those high-fat, full-volume days, we listened to so much Bruce Springsteen all night that we had to play Jethro Tull during the day just to stay awake (most music played on our eight-track tape player). “Yes, I could drink a case of you and still be on my feet,” sang Joni Mitchell. But in those days, long before low alcohol beer and Jolt Cola, it was a case of Dr. Pepper. Plain old, single S.K.U. Dr. Pepper. Full of caffeine and sugar and memories.

Now, I live in London and drink herbal tea while I manage an international sales force. I’m at home with my fax and my three children most of the month, but I make monthly sojourns to Paris to work with my people there. I find I’m living two lives (professional and personal), wearing two wardrobes (one silk and one silly), but I’m doing the same thing in both worlds. I’m building self-esteem in the women I work with and creating it in my kids. That’s what I do.

And The Davidsonian. Well, I enjoyed being editor, working with people, meeting deadlines, smelling the fresh stacks of papers as they were delivered to all the dorms. And I’m sure the experience of being editor helped me get into Harvard Business School. But most likely it’s a memory, a fading food fantasy: of Lucky Charms right out of the box and M&Ms straight out of the bag. And a bunch of fellow revelers, I mean writers, consuming and creating and hoping to be fed. And read. We were.

DONUTS
Glazed
247 S. Broad St.
Mooresville
Next to Wilson Auto Parts
662-6122

HOURS:
M-Sat: 6:00 am-6:00 pm

SANDWICHES & BISCUITS
Ham Biscuit
Bacon Biscuit
Sausage Biscuit
Livermush Biscuit
Chicken Salad
Pimento Salad
Grilled Cheese
B.L.T.
Club
Livermush
Turkey &

Cinnamon Rolls
Cinnamon Raisin Biscuits
Turnovers
Apple & Cherry

DRINKS
Vanilla
Chocolate
Nuts

Dozen Assorted Donuts.....4.50
Dozen Glazed Donuts........3.50

50¢ OFF Any Assorted Sandwich
30¢ OFF Dozen Donuts

Customer Coupon Expires 9.30.94SWISS ........................................ 3.50  
Ham & Cheese .......................... 3.50  
Cold Plate Combo .................... 4.50  
(All above served with pickle & chips)  

451.75 BO | 608 | OFF | OFF | Any | Assorted | Sandwich | Dozen  
Not valid with any other offers.  

Moving into the big leagues  
By William Robert  

The period from the mid-1970s to the mid-1980s was a time of internal reorganization and growth, as Davidson adapted to the multitude of changes from the previous decade and transformed itself from a small southern school to a national-caliber liberal arts college. The first step in this metamorphosis was the opening of the new E. H. Little Library for the 1974-1975 school year. This gave students an expanded, up-to-date place to research and study. The Grey Student Union was opened a year later to provide students with a casual place to relax and congregate for study breaks.  

Davidson increased its national exposure by offering the July Experience program to rising high school seniors in 1976. Students demonstrated their support for national exposure when they protested the cancellation of the Davidson National Print and Paint Competition in the spring of 1976. In December of that year, an endowment created the Stuart scholarships to attract students with outstanding academic and leadership abilities.  

Women continued to find and define their roles at Davidson. In the fall of 1976, Davidson hired Susan Roberts to be its first full-time coach dedicated exclusively to women’s athletics. That same year, Catherine Landis became the first woman elected to edit The Davidsonian. Rusk, the first women’s eating house, was opened in the spring of 1977 with 46 members, and Cannon housed women for the first time that fall. In October of 1980, Kimmel House became a women’s center for two years. A Davidson woman, Elizabeth Kiss, was awarded a Rhodes scholarship for the first time in the winter of 1983, and that fall, the Phi Society changed its 140-year-old policy and admitted women for the first time.  

Davidson continued its internal institutional restructuring and growth. The faculty defeated a measure to implement the equivalent of a cultural diversity requirement in December of 1977 and adopted its new code of professorial evaluation four months later. WDAV moved from a student-run to a classical station in the fall of 1978, and following student protests over the change, the entire student staff resigned within two weeks. Hobart Park, the college’s literary magazine, was also established that fall. The honor pledge was codified into its current form in October of 1979. In September of 1981, Irwin and Knox completed the trio of “down the hill” dormitories, and Vail Commons began serving students.  

The most consequential change of this period came in 1983 when Dr. Samuel Spencer resigned as president of Davidson College after leading it through the most metamorphic decade of this century. The following February, Davidson announced the approval of Dr. John Kuykendall as the next president of the college. He would lead the transformed Davidson, ushering it into a period of national academic prominence and competitiveness.  

RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING CORPS  
"GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. Your Uncle Sam."  

Every year Army ROTC awards scholarships to hundreds of talented students. If you qualify, these merit-based scholarships can help you pay tuition and educational fees. They even pay a flat rate for textbooks and supplies. You can also receive an allowance of up to $1000 each school year the scholarship is in effect. Find out today if you qualify.  

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE.  

Students interested in applying for an Army scholarship may pick up an application at any time in the Department of Military Studies, Belk Hall. Completed applications must be received by 15 December 1994. Army scholarships pay in excess of $12,000 annually at Davidson College.