THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994

Drop/add improved but not perfected
By Jennifer Kerns

It’s six o’clock, one hour before the pandemonium starts, and there is already a large crowd forming in the Gallery. Students anxiously await an event that only happens twice a year. The line snakes in and out of all corners of the first floor of Chambers. Voices grow louder and more impatient as the clock ticks toward 7 p.m., when the doors will open. This is the drop/add of old.

In years past it has been a monster, causing confusion even among upperclassmen and mass frustration to many participants. This year, however, the Registrar’s Office updated its system in response to requests from the SGA’s Academic Affairs Council and students. However, students have mixed feelings about the changes made.

Sunday afternoon time slots were given out for the evening drop/add. Sophomore Kristen Richardson says, “For me, the time cards gave me peace of mind. Last year I waited in line all day to get into a class.” Some doubt the efficacy of these time slots. “People still got there early, so there was still a line,” says senior Allison Milligan.

The phone-in system received both good and bad reviews as well. Senior Hart Bryant points out that she wanted 100- and 200-level courses, which could not be picked up over the phone. “Why can’t we add these lower-level courses as well?” she asks. Some upperclassmen fear that freshmen get priority to these lower-level classes. Senior Daniela Welsh argues, “Freshmen should be the last to choose. After all, they have eight semesters of classes, while the upperclassmen have less time to fulfill requirements.”

The freshmen drop/add ran exactly as it has in the past. Freshman Ryan Lonatser calls it “chaotic," with "snaking long lines” all through the first floor. While lines still remain, upperclassmen agree that the hassle was less than in years past. “The lines were not as long, and everything was less hectic,” comments junior Alicia Dandar. Some, however, contend that getting the classes one wants is still just a matter of good luck.

Despite controversies, course guide
By Meg Wolff

After widespread concerns that a course evaluation guide could cause a rift between students and professors, the Davidson Course Guide has been published and distributed. Editor-in-Chief Jamie McConnel took a leading role in producing the book and was awarded a charter by SGA as well as funding from the Activities Tax Council.

The course guide includes numerical evaluations of courses in six categories: the class overall, the professor, the difficulty, the readings, the workload, and the pace. The book also lists class enrollment and reasons to enroll. Managing editor B.J. Rudell and McConnel distributed one course guide to each freshman, sophomore, and junior room. Due to a short supply of guides, only Resident Advisors have the books in the senior apartments. Interested persons can also find three course guides on reserve in the library.

Some students, such as senior Stephen Brackbill, disagree strongly with the principle of the guide: “It is really hard to get any sort of valuable consensus on something so subjective.” Despite skepticism and complaints that such a course guide would be too subjective, both Rudell and McConnel claim to have observed greater curiosity and enthusiasm about the guide. Rudell says, “people who were at first against the guide are now using it.” McConnel says complaints that the book published for fall course guide is too subjective are unfounded because of the number of aspects of a course that are evaluated. Junior Brooke McRae says the “reviews in the guide are accurate and even helpful, but not enough classes were reviewed.” According to McConnel, certain classes that did not appear in the course guide were left out because less than five people reviewed those particular courses.Ruddell hopes that the project will grow. Sophomore Katie Wheatley is glad that the course guide was published: “It is nice to have a guide when you are picking courses, especially when you have no idea who the professor is or how hard the class is going to be.” Freshman Colin Kelly agrees: “The book is very informative for freshmen who have no prior knowledge of classes. I personally have used it to find out about the pace of classes - it has been most helpful to me to find out how quickly a class is going to go.”

EUCHARIST Episcopal worship services are held on campus Tuesdays at 4:45 p.m. Photo by Kristina Nevius

Outdoor b-ball court might replace parking

B-Ball continued from page 1

been working together to ensure that, according to Ruddell, “This will not become another weight room fiasco.” Holland has located a distributor which will provide a plain, all-purpose surface for one year, free of charge. After the first year, the surface would cost around $2,000 per year. The court can be put in place or removed by two workers within six hours. After much debate, the SGA tabled the resolution until Tuesday so that senators would be able to discuss the issue with their constituents before voting. Ruddell says, “The current outdoor court is an embarrassment. It was designed for use at summer camps, not for Davidson students.”

Several senators disagreed with the resolution. Connor senator Jo Burrows says, “The main reason I’m opposed is because basketball only caters to a small population at Davidson. There is not enough parking as it is, and it is inconvenient to walk to Baker. Why not use the money to renovate Johnston Gym?” Ruddell says he is “kind of upset the issue was tabled, but I understand that people need to discuss it."

College to study economic efficiency

By Court McBryde

Davidson College appointed a task force in the spring of 1993 to assess the efficiency of the college. The task force’s purposes are to come up with more cost-effective suggestions to better the college and to avoid any financial turmoil in the future. The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation funded the establishment of the task force with a $225,000 grant. Professor of Economics Peter Hess heads this group with the intent to continue first-rate education at an effective cost.

The task force has spent the beginning of their three-year charge learning about the college by examining the budget and revenues and conducting one-on-one interviews with college employees. “I am impressed with the willingness and cooperation of the staff to come forward and discuss their views with us,” Hess says. "Our approach is to get everyone involved and more conscious on ways to do their jobs better.”

“The definition of efficiency is doing more with less." Hess says, "We haven’t hit an emergency situation, but we might run into real constraints in the future, and we want to avoid that.” He says the group wants to instill a culture of communication and for employees to understand each other's responsibilities “to set up quality circles.” Hess explains that the group not only examines cost-efficiency, but ways to improve the quality of life for the students. For example, one of the ideas the task force discussed was the establishment of a shuttle service to Charlotte on the weekends.

Hess welcomes students’ views, and the group plans to solicit their opinions on topics “such as a solution for more study space at night.” The task force “illuminates the problem,” Hess said. The suggestions are then taken to the principal executives of staff. The task force has already recommended to the Committee to have a more formal evaluation for employees.

Other members of the task force include Professor of Chemistry Rodger Nutt, Tony Terry with Physical Plant, Jane Price with the Controller’s Office, ex officio Bob Sutton, Richard Terry with Residence Life, and ex officio Robert Williams.