*THE DAVIDSONIAN*

**The Davidsonian**

LEIGH RAWDON - Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Executive Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Associate Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY - News Editor
RUSS TARVER - Assistant News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts & Living Editor
WILL COBB - Sports Editor
WILLIAM ROBERT - Copy Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost Nothing"

SCOTT HILE - Operations Manager
BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES - Ass't Advertising Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN - Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD - Circulation Manager
ERIK SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994

Davidson's own subway system

Full court press

A motion has been proposed to the SGA that the tennis court parking lot be changed into an outdoor basketball
court for student use. While we appreciate the efforts of those advocating the extra courts, we cannot see sacrificing already-scarce
student parking spots for this kind of facility. Residents of the dormitories up the hill will be greatly inconvenienced if
they are required to park in satellite or Baker lots more often. Most importantly, women will have to make more
long, risky walks from distant lots along poorly-lit walkways. Keeping in mind that we already have courts beside Richardson field,
that Baker hours were extended last year to accommodate student interests, and that Johnston Gym would be another logical option
for would-be basketball players, we urge students to tell their SGA representatives to vote on this motion at tonight’s meeting.

Support the Fall Festival

We would like to encourage everyone to support the SGA’s Fall Festival scheduled to take place Friday, September 9 and
Saturday, September 10. For more than a year, this publication has advocated a campus-wide event designed to bring together different
student groups and faculty members in a situation outside the classroom. We commend the SGA for answering the campus’ need
for such a function. The events they have planned, which include a student-faculty mixer, the freshman regatta, and Day at
the Lake, promise to make for a big step toward a more unified Davidson. But only if we support their
efforts. Everyone, especially the faculty, need only attend and enjoy the events this weekend in order to promote the kind
of close-knit environment we all want to foster here at Davidson College. Considering those who have put in their time
and effort to make the festival possible, it’s a small thing to ask.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone: (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian
requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all
letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey
Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year.

Advertising

To the editors,

As we pulled up to the quaint collegiate campus and a small knot began to form in my stomach, I
realized that I was entering a strange new place. The closer we drew, the larger the knot became, until finally
it felt as if it filled everything between my waist and my chin. Davidson was a college, and this mass
of buildings before me was its campus. Being a person who becomes easily disoriented, I began to panic at the
thought of having to find my way around a college campus, even one of such small size. However, the next
day my fears were quelled upon learning that Davidson College has its own mass transit system. Whew, what a relief!
Instead of just wandering around the campus, I discovered that I could probably make use of the subway system. I
find it odd that no one during orientation mentioned the subway, but I managed to discover it on my own.
While walking between the library and the Union, I saw large amounts of...Steam billowing out from beneath a manhole cover.
I happened to ask an upperclassman about it and he laughed, “Ahh, you must be a freshman! Don’t you know
that Davidson has a subway?” Having visited many large cities and riding the N.Y. subway, the Paris Metro, and the
Metro in D.C., I instantly knew exactly what he was alluding to: an underground train, of course. I must admit,
though, that it did take a second of pondering due to the lack of a homeless wino lying on top.

Recently, I began inquiring as to the whereabouts of the stairs to descend underground. Some, like myself at first, had
no idea that Davidson was fortunate enough to have a stop on campus. Perhaps signs or handouts should be printed
so that the student population still in the dark can make better use of this expensive investment of the city
and the college’s money.

My hall counselor, however, was very helpful when I questioned him about the subway’s entrance and cost of the necessary
tokens to ride. Caught off-guard at first, he didn’t seem to know what I was talking about, yet a little
later in the day he kindly stopped by to impart the needed information. Happily, he offered to take care of
setting up a Mass Transit Account on my student ID if I gave him the initial $10 start-up fee and
$40 year-round fare. I’m very excited to ride on the subway, though unfortunately my helpful hall counselor could not remember
just exactly where the William Edwards Memorial Station is located. It seems that he never makes use of the advantages
that an on-campus subway system provides.

Anyway, I’m writing on behalf of all the clueless students who still don’t know about this great subway. I definitely
feel that signs should be posted to inform us of the location of the entrance and costs of riding. Maps
of all the stops that the line will make might also be a good idea. I would also like to
thank the upperclassmen who, though somewhat intimidating at times, are always willing to help a lost freshman without completely humiliating
him in the process.

Sincerely,
Paul N. Ebner, ’98

Basketball team says "thanks"

To the editors,

Although the emotions and passion of the men’s basketball season have faded, we have flashbacks that we will cherish forever.
We can vividly see the painted faces and the bare chests as well as the artfully crafted signs. We can
also clearly hear the carefully orchestrated cheers and shouts of encouragement and inspiration that were with us from the opening
tap in November to the final seconds of March.

The greatest joy of success is being able to share it with others. For us, you became the perfect partners
in the wonderful experience of this season. The primary reason for our success goes far beyond the bounds of the
basketball court, and can be found in three words that our team used as the foundation for all of our
efforts: commitment, trust, and care. We were committed to doing our best; we were able to be trusted to do
our best; we cared about each other and we showed it. When you think about it, these three words are
also the foundation for what we are all about as a college community. It’s a simple message and one that
can be found in the Koran, the Talmud, the Bible, or any other book that speaks to and about the
virtues and lifestyle embodied by holy individuals such as Jesus.

You have become a reason and a purpose for our ongoing quest for excellence. Thanks for your support and inspiration.

Sincerely,
The Men’s Basketball Team

This letter was written to The Davidsonian last spring, too late to be printed.

Write for Opinions. Rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College. Call Bobby at
-2148.
