12 Holt Vaughan

Bobbitt vomit. I don’t know about you, but if I read one more thing about this Bobbitt saga, I think I might vomit. I admit, it was funny at first when the news was fresh and new. I remember the day clearly when I discovered the article like a hidden jewel. It was on the back page in relatively small print. If I recall correctly, the headline stated, “Man’s Penis Chopped Off.” (or something like that — I know it had the word penis in it anyways.) What can I say, I was like every other curious person in the country that read the article. It made my day. I know the matter was serious. After all, this was a major wake-up call to the general male population. But the subject matter was so bizarre it was humorous. Okay, it was hilarious. People were cracking jokes all over the place. I don’t know if anybody even believed the story or not. It didn’t matter. The article was such a conversation piece.

But then the media started to get hold of the story and started to recognize its popularity. I don’t know who it was, but someone really important in the media decided that this was the story of a lifetime. The local newspapers went from worthy news sources to a small step above the “National Enquirer.” The Bobbitts' personal life (and I do mean personal) started taking precedence over international issues. Wars were going on in some countries, N.A.F.T.A. was causing a Mexican crisis, and Bill Clinton was reforming Health Care, yet the Bobbitts still got front-page coverage. Oprah started paying the Bobbitt family and their friends to fly from all over the country to discuss their relationship with John and tell America what the real John Bobbitt was like. The Bobbitts were becoming celebrities. Don’t quote me on this, but I could almost guarantee that more people in this country know who John Bobbitt is than their own state senator. (Do you know yours?) Not only do these people know who Bobbitt is, but people know who his mother is, what his favorite colors are, and even the size of his genitals. Why are people so interested in this case? Lorena Bobbitt is becoming a sort of hero for some people. Some say that John got what he deserved. Others claim that Lorena was “temporarily insane.” I say, who cares? Thank God the jury is finally out on Lorena's trial. Whether or not we agree with their decision (she was acquitted, by the way), we can finally move on with our lives and put the severed penis behind us. Not literally. I don’t know about you, but I’ve heard everything I could ever want to know about John and Lorena Bobbitt, and I don’t want to hear any more. Call me selfish, but I think it’s old “news.” Let’s talk about something more interesting, like a skater-murderer. Now that’s news. Not this sissy earthquake or government stuff.

Cartoonists & Writers Syndicate

I have to question those pesky cryogenics.

Olaf continued from page 11

Run Again,” I read something almost unbelievable. In Port Townsend, Washington, there is a company called Geneti-Pet. They clone doggies and kitties. Oh, yes. You pay $75 for the vet to extract blood from your still living pet, and then Geneti-Pet will store this blood in liquid nitrogen for a mere $200 a year. You assume that Geneti-Pet will bring an exact replica of your animal to life when the old one dies. No. You will have to find someone else to actually do the cloning—some real genetic laboratory, I hope. Of course, Geneti-Pet “offers no guarantees.” Because if the power goes out and the liquid nitrogen turns to gas and all the blood thaws, then you’ve lost your pet forever, plus the $200 per year you’ve been paying to have the dog’s blood cryogenically frozen, which I presume is better than a simple meat locker. So, what we have is a company that will take already extracted blood and super-freeze it, and then give it back so you can take it somewhere else and get a pet exactly like the one that just died. And only for $200 a year! Amway should be ashamed of themselves. In order to earn their money, they have to convince their friends to join and convince other people. Don’t they know that all they really have to do to make a lot of money is freeze blood? I wonder how a competing business would sell themselves. “Rover-Clone: We Freeze It Colder.” “Jurassic Bark: We Love Your Pet’s Blood As Much As You Do.” The point is this: I respect any capitalistic effort, but sometimes it makes me laugh.

"Firstly, there will never be a next time..."

Miller continued from page 11

My, my, my, what a cop-out! Why could this not be handled immediately...in my presence? I’m left to believe that it probably will not be handled at all. Another unidentified employee, possibly the Assistant Manager, came up toHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

me as I was leaving the check-out. She so innocently said to me, “I’m sorry you had that problem. The next time you’re in Dover’s and can’t get anyone to serve you, come to the front and get one of us. We’ll be glad to help.” WHAT!!! Is she serious? Firstly, there will never be a next time. Secondly, why would a company hire someone to do a job, and then allow that employee to choose whom he or she will serve? If I cannot get service from the person hired to serve me, should I have to walk all the way to the front of the store to ask the manager for assistance? No, I don’t think so! Here again, this says to me that the management has no concern that they hire racist individuals to serve all customers. The management will serve those of us who do not realize discrimination or racial bias. Well, guess what? This strong, proud, and intelligent African-American woman just does not meet that criterion. I realize that the green dollars I spend to help businesses become and remain successful look the same and are equally as important as that of the individuals who are not of color. In my opinion, it would be wise to do as a great man of color, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., once said, and I paraphrase, “We should never judge a person by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character.” Until you know for certain that my personal character is less than acceptable to society, never discriminate or show racial bias toward me!

Sincerely,
Joan Miller
Love of Learning Assistant

THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 1994

Rob King

Self-selection and God. So what do self-selection, fraternities, and God have in common? One response would be that they do not have much in common at all. Another response would be a moralistic condemnation of all that transpires on Patterson Court. I would like to offer a different view which hopefully marches to the beat of a completely different drummer.

When I look back three years ago upon my own self-selection night experience, I have humorous, although somewhat blurred, memories of countless naked “beer slides,” being “wedgied” by my big brother in Kappa Sig, and for the rest of the night wandering aimlessly around Patterson Court. I am sure that this experience sounds familiar and is probably vivid in the minds of many people (especially if this just happened a week ago). Since that time, I have pledged, joined, been active in, and subsequently become inactive in a fraternity. Now being a “not as wise as I think I am” old man of twenty-two years (complete with receding hairline), my interests have changed and I mostly just have deep discussions with people, play basketball, and think about things. One of the things I have thought about for some time is the nature of a fraternity.

In theory, fraternities are a wonderful idea, and many times do help an individual grow in many ways. I fondly remember the idealistic words of our Star and Crescent which every pledge learns: “The Star and Crescent shall...be worn...only by him who is worthy to wear it. He must be...a man of honor and courage...an intelligent man...a man of truth...and above all else, one who walks in the light of God.” All of these qualities are very admirable, but the last lines stand out in my mind the most. What does it mean to be a man or woman of truth? Besides a simple adherence to a code of honor, I feel that being a person of truth means seeking the truth in any given situation and wrestling with the difficult problems of our world. If anyone has ever taken one of Dr. Mahoney’s religion classes, they probably know what I mean about being a “seeker of truth.”

“And above all else, one who walks in the light of God.” Hey, I just found a link between fraternities (or, rather, one fraternity, but I’m sure others are similar) and God. Other than this example, what else do fraternities and God have in common? Have you ever read something by one of your favorite writers or spoken to a friend and been completely attuned to a particular idea so you know that deep down you share a common understanding? If you have felt this, then you are experiencing what fraternities in their ideal state are trying to recreate. This same feeling of common understanding is what binds those who are “seekers of truth,” and “walk in the light of God.” The members of this fraternity, however, include male and female, young and old, rich and poor, “cool” people and dorks and anyone else who wants to join. Everyone gets a bid and there are no dues to pay. Once you're initiated, however, you will never quite be the same again.