4 _ THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994

This Week in Washington

Cuban refugees & U.S. political implications

By Andrea Short

Haiti must now share news headlines with its nearby neighbor Cuba. The Clinton administration, after reversing the United States policy
of accepting illegal Cuban refugees on August 18, faces yet another immigration problem in the Caribbean. Currently, the administration exercises
the non-policy of housing the Cuban refugees at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base, which also houses approximately 14,000 Haitian refugees. The
groups are segregated and housed in tent cities, but the new influx has produced a new group of refugees: Americans.
To accommodate the 40,000 more Cuban refugees expected to float into the United States’ hands, the U.S. has begun to
evacuate all military families and civilians from Guantanamo Base. Prompted by concerns over possible rioting as well as the need
for additional space, the evacuation of American citizens is the first since the Cuban Missile Crisis.

If the Clinton administration continues on its current course, the cost to the United States will be financial as well
as political. Currently, military sources estimate that housing the refugees at Guantanamo Bay will cost an initial 100 million dollars
with an additional 20 million dollars per month for food and supply costs. Uprooting and resettling military families and civilians
will also cost taxpayers another eight million dollars. These costs loom over the administration as the flow of rafts continues
and an effective policy eludes the Clinton administration.

Domestically, Florida, already home to a huge immigrant populace, fears that it will have to absorb even more refugees fleeing
Cuba and Haiti. The threat of more refugees prompted Florida Democratic Senator Bob Graham to visit Guantanamo Bay this week.
The Senator found considerable cause for concern as he discovered that 20- to 30-year-old males with dim economic prospects comprise
the majority of refugees awaiting passage to Graham’s home state. The refugees’ poverty increases Floridians’ reluctance to welcome what they
perceive as an even further drain on their communities’ economic and social resources.

In 1980, Florida and other Southern states experienced a massive flood of 125,000 refugees within a five-month period. Residents and
political figures in Florida have not forgotten the infamous Mariel boat lift which dumped refugees into the laps of unprepared
social agencies and small communities. That incident caused political disaster for many elected officials in the early eighties, including Bill
Clinton, who lost his re-election bid for the Arkansas governorship. The emerging refugee crisis will play a major role in
Florida’s gubernatorial race this November.

The United States also recently uncovered evidence of what they have long suspected: Fidel Castro is releasing Cuban prisoners and
encouraging them to join the flood of rafters. Guantanamo personnel have isolated approximately 100 refugees that they strongly suspect are
former prisoners. Officials have not yet determined whether these individuals are violent criminals or political prisoners. Cuban spokesmen deny charges
that Castro is using the influx of Cuban rafters as a dumping ground for criminals. However, in past instances...

The Dean Rusk Program

Cairo Population Conference: Africa’s position

By Zik Joseph

Much controversy surrounds Cairo’s Population and Development conference this week in Egypt. The main goals of this UN-sponsored conference as
entailed in its preamble have been the root of several uncertainties. Last week, Sudan joined Saudi Arabia in declaring that
it would not participate in the conference. Whatever topics are tackled during this conference, there is no doubt that the
African case will be one of the indispensable topics.

The minds behind this conference estimate that, if the actions discussed are implemented, world population (currently six billion) would peak
at 7.813 billion in the year 2050 and decline with time. Currently, Africa has the highest population growth rate globally.
With drawbacks such as high poverty, AIDS, and infant mortality rates already affecting the continent, a 3.2 percent population growth
rate possesses the threat of causing the failure of this 1994 conference. Many analysts continue to question whether the conference
will achieve its goal of reduced population growth.

Programs which will be implemented according to...The final draft document is questionable. This explains why some nations are threatening to
boycott the conference. Although Saudi Arabia did not give reasons for its withdrawal, Sudan clearly “hit the nail on the
head.” To that nation, the conference is a channel for the West to spread what Sudan terms “immoral and irreligious
values.” Some of the issues that will be handled include abortion, gender equity, and the status of women. However, what
the masterminds of the meeting have overlooked is the questionable effectiveness of implementing birth control methods such as abortion. Although
such methods are effective in places such as the U.S., in other countries their implementation is questionable. Africans (sub-Saharan Africans
in particular) have only recently become accustomed to the use of contraceptives for reducing the risk of acquiring AIDS and
not as a means of birth control. Abortion, for instance, is conducted mostly in underground organizations because cultural and traditional
expectations still undermine that issue. So the imposition of such programs by this conference would not only be unrealistic but
would be met with much opposition.

Even in light of the above issues, many African governments realize the need for a reduction in the soaring rate
of population growth. Projections estimate that sub-Saharan Africa’s population of 600 million people could reach 1.6 billion by the year
2030. Currently, Nigeria holds the highest population figure with 119 million people, and Equatorial Guinea has the smallest with 379,000
people. These figures are already eating away the per capita income of many countries. Africa cannot afford to see this
growth detriment continue. The Cairo conference needs to re-examine such a case. In sub-Saharan Africa, families are hard-pressed due to
economic hardships; there has been a tendency to reduce the average number of children per family. This definitely brings with
it a lot of problems in terms of how a reduced family size can be achieved. That is why the
Cairo conference delegates should focus on how this can be achieved. They should let different countries independently enforce the two
children per family maximum.

Write for News. Call Ashlyn at -2148.

NOTES
In instances such as the Mariel boat lift, approximately 2,000 refugees were discovered to be Cuban prisoners. Thursday, U.S. and
Cuban negotiators began talks at the United Nations to discuss the current refugee crisis and policy. Hindering any progress on
the refugee crisis, however, is Cuba’s insistence that the U.S. end their long-standing trade embargo. With the two nations pursuing
different goals, the outlook is dim for a quick solution to surface from the remaining meetings. Sources include the September
1 and 2 issues of The New York Times and the September 5 issue of Time.

I.R.A. cease-fire
“This is not about peace,” the Belfast I.R.A. commander said when I asked about Gerry Adams' negotiations with the British.
“This is about getting the referees off the playing field, about finding a way for the British to leave with
some semblance of dignity. The real war has always been between us and the Loyalists. That has not changed, and
that's what we're getting ready for.” Ironically, this “Ulster apocalypse” is what British troops came to prevent in the first
place. The apocalypse will not be allowed to happen now, but the commander's words underscore how little has changed in
a quarter-century. They also underscore the limited nature of the I.R.A.'s current peace gestures—not a final curtain on the long-running
tragedy, as many would like to believe, but more likely the winding down of the agonizing first act.
-From Scott Anderson's "In Ulster, Just the End of the Beginning" printed in The New York Times on Friday, September
2, 1994.

Birth control and the Pope
“The coincidence of Catholic teachings and individual reproductive choices has always been mostly that: a coincidence.”
-From George Moffett's "Unruly Masses" printed in The New York Times on Friday, September 2, 1994.

Congratulations Davidsonian!
Students bring this ad in for 10% off everything in the store and 20% off footwear.
Offer valid until 10/17/94
Shops on the Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn
Teva THE SPORT SANDAL.
