THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1994

NEWS

The sign for Apartment building F could be replaced with a student's name.

Photo by Brooke McRae

Seniors seek solution for nameless buildings with raffle

By Mary Laura Moretz

What began as “a farce to glorify seniors,” as senior Chris Hood describes it, may soon become a way for students to get involved in charity fundraising and to name Martin Court Building F.

When a group of seniors sat around one night discussing the nameless status of three of the Martin Court apartments, some of them began musing about the idea of naming it after one of themselves.

The idea involves holding a raffle among seniors to raise money and then drawing one name to be the namesake of the building.

Hood, one of these seniors, says, “Originally it was a total joke, until everyone said, ‘Hey, that’s cool. Let’s do it.’” So they turned the matter over to B.J. Rudell, who discussed it with Dean of Residence Life Richard Terry.

Rudell and Terry amended the proposal to include that the proceeds could go to a charitable cause and eliminated one of Hood’s original suggestions: that the winning student would also be represented in a statue.

Rudell says, “It’s a great way to express senior class pride, and we could raise thousands of dollars for whatever cause we choose, especially if this becomes something we do again next year for the other buildings.”

After hearing the proposal, Terry says, “It’s a really interesting and fun idea.” He added, however, that there are a few obstacles to clear before the plan could be considered a reality.

First, Terry and Rudell raised the practical concern of the physical placement of the name itself. “We have to think about what kind of lettering and sign we would use and where to put it,” Rudell says.

In addition, as the idea passes through the Development Office and other college officials, they must take into consideration the effect of the plan on other donors.

Terry explains: “We would hate to diminish the honor and dignity of the tremendously generous and selfless gifts that have gone into the naming of buildings in the past few months.”

SGA supports co-ed, upperclass dorm by room

By Russ Tarver

With seven oppositions and 2 abstentions, the Student Government Association passed a resolution which would allow one upperclass hall to be co-ed by room. Duke dormitory would be the likely site, since it has two bathrooms on each hall, allowing for single-sex bathrooms.

Senior President B.J. Rudell explained that the hall would have an even number of men and women. The option to live on the co-ed hall would be presented in the residence lottery. Only those students with the best numbers wanting this option would live on the hall.

Those opposed to the resolution expressed concern that this co-ed living situation would encourage pairing sets of boyfriends and girlfriends, resulting in cohabitation.

Write for News. Call Ashlyn -2148.

HONEY GLAZED AND SPIRAL SLICED

SANDWICH SPECIAL

FREE DRINK WITH PURCHASE OF ANY SANDWICH OR SALAD

Offer Expires 12-31-94

I-77 at Highway 73 (Exit 28) Southlake Shopping Center (Near Harris Teeter & Rose’s) 892-9592

AIDS educator and patient to speak

By Russ Tarver

Over the past ten years, Davidson College has lost at least 40 alumni to AIDS. College Health Educator Georgia Ringle says that through this information, “we can tell that the virus is probably still alive and well on campus. We know through seropositivity tests of other small colleges that approximately one in 500 students may be infected with HIV and not even know it.”

This information startled junior Christopher Vargo into action. “After interning with the Mecklenburg County Health Department last spring, I became aware that AIDS was a serious, very real threat for people in all types of environments. This aroused concern for my own environment,” says Vargo.

At the Health Department, Vargo worked with Mecklenburg County Health Educator Michael Kennedy. Kennedy talks to people in various risk groups and discusses AIDS prevention methods. Vargo invited Kennedy to present his information at Davidson.

“I thought it would be a good idea to have [Kennedy] speak. I wanted to move beyond the required P.E. AIDS information session from freshman year,” says Vargo; however, this talk will be different than usual. Kennedy will bring an AIDS patient with him. “I wanted to do something that would put a face to AIDS and have Davidson students realize that it’s not just an abstract virus you learn about.”

See AIDS, continued on page 5

The Soda Shop

A Davidson Tradition Since 1951

Breakfast Daily Until 11:30 a.m. Take-out Orders Welcomed!

Mon, Tues, Wed 8am-8pm Thurs, Fri, Sat 8am-9pm Sunday 9am-8pm

NEW HOURS Now Open Every Evening

104 South Main Street, Davidson 896-7743

The Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough Sundae is our famous cookie dough ice cream topped with rich hot fudge, chocolate whipped cream, and real

202 S. Main St. Davidson, NC 892-0604

Tanning Special: 10 visits for $33!