LEIGH RAWDON - Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Executive Editor
MANDY CURTIS - Managing Editor
KATHERINE HASH - News Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY - Ass't News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY - Opinions Editor
JOSH LARNED - Arts Editor
SCOTT MCLEAN - Ass't Arts Editor
WILL COBB - Sports Editor
AMY LAUKKANEN - Photography Editor
ARTHUR GASTON - Copy Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES - Ass't Advertising Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN - Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD - Circulation Manager

Nixon's legacy

Richard Nixon, for all his faults, never failed to teach America about itself. What we learned was, and is, disturbing:
our Presidents no longer represent the pinnacle of American success the way they once did. Our ideal that integrity and
hard work ensure success has been undermined by the knowledge that people who compromise their morals can rise in society,
even to the highest office in the land. We can praise Nixon for his legacy of savvy foreign policy—ending the
war in Vietnam and establishing diplomatic relations with communist China—but we must recognize his true legacy for what it is,
however regrettable it may sound. Since his resignation, Americans have lost their trust in the Oval Office and, with it,
their respect for its occupant.

Where this distrust manifests itself in our culture is obvious. We need look no further than Clinton’s town meeting in
Charlotte to see citizens being openly spiteful toward our nation’s chief executive. The aura of respect that used to surround
our Presidents has faded, and in its stead has crept the thirst for scandal, the desire to tear down what
we have placed on high. We expect our leaders to be confident and strong, yet we insist on focusing attention
on their personal mistakes, their blights of character, and their failures. Strict (and, by all means, necessary) criticism of policies
has decayed into this general mood of irreverence that followed in the wake of Nixon’s fall, and it is uncertain
whether the office will ever fully recover from its effects.

It is ironic and, perhaps, fitting that we all praise Nixon now that he is dead. The President whose breach
of trust challenged our faith in the entire system is now generously hailed as a model of endurance and resilience.
(The featured editorial in Saturday’s Observer was titled, “Richard Nixon: I miss him already.”) Meanwhile, his legacy makes the task
of his successors ever harder for them to accomplish. Granted, between Watergate, being a Republican, and going to Duke, Nixon
doesn’t rate very high on our list of favorite people. But he has given us one last insight by his
death. We should see our Presidents as public servants who strive for the good of our country, and, regardless of
their mistakes, we should, if not approve of them, at least respect them. If we can be so kind to
the deceased Watergate President, why can’t we give our living, breathing President the respect he deserves?

A New Purpose

At noon on Friday, when the Trustees officially changed Davidson’s Statement of Purpose, they did more than rewrite a few
words in the course catalogue. They redefined the goals and attitudes by which our college is viewed and for which
it exists. In the spirit of the openness and toleration that have enveloped our campus, our purpose no longer looks
to Jesus Christ as “the central fact of history,” the sole source of spirituality. Instead, we acknowledge the need for
spiritual development in general, regardless of denomination, and affirm the respect and consideration each tradition deserves. Finally, our written purpose
parallels the ideals that our classes and activities have long sought to promote. Though we can never deny the value
of our Presbyterian heritage, we can now move forward, in earnest, to become a community that not only invites but
also includes those of different beliefs and backgrounds, whether in the student body, the faculty, or the administration.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian
requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all
letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey
Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by
the Trustees of Davidson College.

Kitchen report unsubstantiated

To the editors,

Concerning "Court houses fail sanitation inspection," April 11, 1994, by William Robert: As a member of the Davidson College student
body and Patterson Court, I would like to express my relief in knowing we have a hygiene crusader on the
Davidsonian staff. The Davidsonian tookIt upon itself to inspect Patterson Court houses and give its honest opinion regarding the sanitation
of each. The writer took the time to look through the North Carolina health code and pinpoint various severe violations
of the code that apparently occur on Patterson Court every day, right under our noses. Thank you. I question two
things about the articles, however. To begin, when did the reporter witness these serious infractions? As a member of Pi
Kappa Alpha, I for one have never seen the reporter on the premises, not to mention at dinner. This leaves
me wondering if perhaps he received the majority of his information through word of mouth. My second question is one
of the significance of the discoveries. How many of the alleged violations have posed or could pose a serious health
risk to the members of an eating house? I now charge the Davidsonian to muster all its investigative skills and
take on the arduous task of finding any and all cases of Patterson Court members suffering illness or harm from
eating in supposedly the unhealthiest places to eat on campus. Now that would make an interesting story. I guess my
displeasure and dissatisfaction lie with the editors of The Davidsonian, editors willing to print articles that apparently have no sources
and no hard evidence to substantiate rather inflammatory claims. And to echo Dennis Rice’s comments, these articles had no business
in the news section of the paper anyway, as they were obviously nothing more than opinions based on one student’s
perception of Patterson Court, a student with no real substantial evidence or significance to his comments.

Sincerely,
Jason Roebuck, ‘97

More kitchen critics’ critics

To the editors,

The article “Court houses fail sanitation inspection,” which appeared in the April 11 edition of The Davidsonian was unprofessional, out
of place, and in some places just plain false. The Patterson Court Council feels that the “unofficial inspector” of Patterson
Court houses did not have the credentials or experience to undertake the study that he did and, in the process,
has unfairly slandered Patterson Court Houses. First of all, the approach was unprofessional and sloppy. While he did obtain the
proper documents and consult the proper statutes, his inspection process was faulty. In a true inspection, a restaurant would receive
one week’s notice before the officials arrived. In other words, Waffle House or Chat N’ Chew must only be clean
during the actual inspection, and it has a week to clean things up beforehand. Also, Mr. Robert only mentioned this
inspection to the cooks at the various houses, not to the presidents, nor to Patterson Court Council. Surely, the manager
at Hardee’s is informed of such an inspection, especially when the results will be the headline in next week’s paper.
Secondly, some of what Mr. Robert reported was false or should have included other background information. For example, Mr. Robert
stated that Pi Kappa Alpha did not have enough racks to dry all the dishes used at a meal, and
he pointed out that Kappa Sigma had “food encrusted on the stove top.” Actually, PiKA has sufficient drying racks, and
the only substandard equipment one might find in a Patterson Court house are the stoves or deep fryers, which are
supplied by Davidson College, and as Ben Balsley put it, “usually pre-date Dean Terry.” Patterson Court would surely enjoy all
new equipment so they might pass the next inspection. Finally, in light of how Mr. Robert went about this inspection,
this article should not have appeared as a headline. Tripp Winslow, Vice President of Sigma Phi Epsilon, and Dennis Rice,
the Certified Executive Chef were especially disappointed at the article’s placement and content. The follow-up article in the April 18
edition was no better. Again, Robert consulted few and did not have his facts straight; PiKA, for example, never serves
a buffet in the kitchen, but rather in the main dining room. Is it really an issue of whether our
cooks, who answer not to the school or the Davidsonian but only to us, wear sanitary gloves? Will next week’s
article try to uncover the unsanitary methods our dear mothers use at home? Might as well. It is a shame
that students, faculty and parents will see these headlines and assume that the results are accurate and professional. In the
same week that Dean Terry is honored for his career at Davidson, and S.G.A. elections are held, it is a
travesty that articles such as these get the headline. These articles hurt Patterson Court and Davidson as a whole, and
are of a quality far below that which one would expect from the “South’s Foremost Weekly.”

Sincerely,
Josh Worsham
PCC President
