LEIGH RAWDON - Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Executive Editor
MANDY CURTIS - Managing Editor
The Davidsonian
KATHERINE HASH - News Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY - Ass't News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY - Opinions Editor
JOSH LARNED - Arts Editor
SCOTT MCLEAN - Ass't Arts Editor
WILL COBB - Sports Editor
AMY LAUKKANEN - Photography Editor
ARTHUR GASTON - Copy Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES - Ass't Advertising Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN - Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD - Circulation Manager

Identity crisis and the new dean of students

Last week, the search for a new Dean of Students neared an end as the three final candidates visited campus
to meet students, faculty, and administrators charged with the task of deciding which person would best fill Dean Terry’s shoes.
Not an easy decision, to say the least, not only because of the quality of each candidate but because of
what the choice represents: a symbolic next step.

In many ways, Davidson is at a crossroads. For several years, we have been walking two roads in our attitudes
on where Davidson should go in the future. One attitude is best characterized as the “old-school” way of thinking. The
old-schoolers emphasize Davidson's Presbyterian heritage as its strength and usually take a status quo stance regarding possible changes in the
school. They champion the old Southern charm and traditional Christian values that have produced many quality generations of Davidsonians. To
an old-school thinker, the values inherited from Davidson's past are what set it apart and make its graduates a cut
above the rest.

Davidson’s other road is harder to navigate. The “new-schoolers” are concerned with the uncharted territory ahead rather than the tamed
land behind. Because the new school constantly confronts new ideas, it is often amorphous and uses terms such as “multiculturalism,”
“political correctness,” and “inclusiveness,” whose very definitions are points of debate. Progressive attitudes bring with them many problems that often
strain the college's balance, but without this type of thinking we threaten to stagnate in the inequality of the past.

These two ways of thinking, though oversimplified above, easily can be seen to pull the college in two different directions.
Schisms within the Davidson community, usually divided along these lines, are especially visible as we debate issues such as creating
coed freshman dorms and changing the statement of purpose. Most of us can see the advantages of both philosophies, but
the two cannot balance forever. It is easy to say we are for diversity, but when it comes to institutionalizing
diversity through programs and policies, we all realize that we may not be as dedicated to progress as we think.
At times like now, Davidson’s roads diverge, and if the college is to have any coherence, we must pick one
and follow it.

As many old-school proponents are quick to point out, Davidson’s roots as a Presbyterian, conservative institution cannot be denied. But
also recognized should be the homogeneity and closed-mindedness that are tied to that history. What is good about our past,
the values we hold with us, will become a farce if by the year 2000 we still disallow non-Christians to
become members of our Trustee Board. Holding on too much to the past will undermine the value of what we
can learn from it. We should respect our heritage but also realize that we, like our collegiate ancestors, are leaving
a legacy for future Davidsonians.

The dean we choose will have a profound influence on what kind of school Davidson will become by the 21st
century. Though we have only a cursory knowledge of the three candidates, we hope that those who have the ultimate
say-so on the new dean recognize their awful responsibility to let the past be the past and, once and for
all, to let the future begin.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian
requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all
letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey
Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by
the Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTERS

A defense of the Course Guide Book

To the editors,

On behalf of the six hundred students who have completed course evaluation questionnaires, we would like to defend the course
guide project against theFive condemning arguments which you presented in your editorial entitled “The Tempting Course Guide.” In the editorial,
you first argued that a course book which rates course difficulty promises to take students “down the road to laziness.”
You belittled the students at Davidson College who, by coming here, have demonstrated a strong desire to challenge themselves. A
Course Guide will not inspire laziness but will enable eager freshmen and underclassmen to challenge themselves without becoming overburdened. It
will also give students who may feel unchallenged the opportunity to identify the most demanding courses in the school.

In the second section of your editorial, you argued that freshmen have “a fair shot at getting good courses” because
freshmen are provided with hall counselors and faculty advisors, two sources of advice. While these people can indeed assist students
during the drop/add process, we do not think that they can supply the quality or amount of information that a
Course Guide delivers. Most hall counselors have not taken every academic course offered to freshmen. Thus, they cannot easily provide
freshmen with information about many classes. Faculty advisors are not completely adequate either. Many faculty members believe that openly criticizing
another faculty member is unprofessional. A Course Guide will give freshmen information which is vital to the course registration process
and presently difficult to obtain.

The third section of your editorial argued that the rating process “is too subjective to provide a fair picture of
professors or their classes.” We concede that an individual who rates a course is inherently subjective. However, aren’t opinions garnered
from counselors and advisors subjective, too? The Course Guide will be less subjective than these two sources because the guide
will account for many different opinions, not just a small number.

You believe that the Course Guide threatens to alienate the faculty and harm “the fragile system of faculty/student relations that
exists on our small campus.” In the fourth section of your editorial, you expressed the opinion that “we would feel
the same alienation were the faculty to publish a book of our grades to pass around to colleagues.” First, we
would like to report that even though the faculty does not publish a book of our grades, the faculty has
open access to student records. In fact, freshman advisors are encouraged.

See Book on page 8

Limitations of Davidson's Reputation

To the editors,

In applying for internships, jobs and graduate programs I have consistently been confronted with ignorance about the existence, let alone
the academic strength of our college. Outside academic and occupational circles, I am neither surprised nor disappointed that most are
not acquainted with our school. In part, I believe these handicaps in Davidson’s reputation result from the trends in our
recruitment and in our alumni’s restricted geographical distribution. Traditionally, Davidson is a southern school, and today this tendency continues. Admirably,
more students are now recruited from northeastern states; however, few come from the Midwest, the Southwest or the Pacific Coast.
Thus, the few students in these areas have difficulty extending our prestige in these more distant states. Information indicates that
a large majority of our alumni reside in southern and mid-Atlantic states. Hence, our alumni’s limited distribution similarly hinders amplifying
our school’s reputation in new areas. Assuredly, as many seniors comment in the Careers Office, Davidson’s narrow reputation frequently impedes
our graduates from gaining entry to competitive job markets, graduate schools and internships that lie outside of the Southeast. I
challenge the President, the Trustees, the Dean of Students, the Office of Public Relations and the Office of Career Services
to labor diligently to broaden Davidson’s well-deserved prestige, so that no Davidson graduate be unnecessarily restricted in his or her
academic or vocational pursuits.

Sincerely,
Stephen H. Hill, '94

Gullan's analogy is short-sighted.

To the editors,

Bill Gullan's article of March 7 states that the ability of a fraternity to give money to good causes makes
up for the irresponsible behavior of its members. This is not true. Life is much more complicated than that. At
our age, a person must do more than just offer up the occasional token act of goodwill toward humanity; he
or she must learn to be an adult. Gullan’s simplistic apology displays the short-sightedness that has reduced the modern fraternity
system from a valuable college experience to the much-maligned status it now holds. I hope that people will look beyond
the childishness to see the possibilities and opportunities that are a vital part of fraternal association.

Sincerely,
Jeff George ‘95
Phi Gamma Delta
