14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volleyball builds confidence with wins
By Jonathan Whitcomb

According to coach Carolyn Blake, this season for the women’s volleyball team has actually been two seasons. The first was a growing experience for the young team (8 freshmen, 2 sophomores, 2 upperclassmen) in which they played top-notch teams such as North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia Tech. The Wildcats went 0-11 in that first part of the season, but they learned from their mistakes and entered the Southern Conference schedule with high hopes.

Last week, Davidson defeated Western Carolina three games to two and Tennessee-Chattanooga 3-1. Setter Lorie Logan played well all-around, and middle blocker Shea Green had some powerful kills. Also, Michelle Augustin stepped up with an excellent jump serve and some timely kills. The Cats later lost to UNC-Wilmington, but their record stood at 3-12 and they seemed to gain confidence heading into the heart of the conference schedule. Blake also said that Paola Leal, middle blocker Tara Smith, and freshman Amy Bourgeois played very well.

While the team has struggled at times this year, Blake feels that strong recruiting classes will combine with this year’s youngsters to produce a powerful squad. This week, the Cats take on conference rivals Furman and Appalachian State at home in their quest for the conference title.

Davidson wins wild rugby contest with overtime triumph
By Graham Powell

The Davidson Rugby Club came out on top in two rugby contests against Appalachian State on Saturday. The tough play of the forwards got the ball into the hands of scrum half David Derrick, who managed to distribute the ball to the backs under high pressure from the Mountaineers.

Controversy erupted when Pete Scholze took a pass, ran diagonally for the corner of the tri-zone, and beat several ASU players for an apparent score. The linesman, who may not have told the truth, called Scholze out of bounds and disallowed the try. Play had to be stopped minutes later when an Appalachian player suffered a compound fracture, stopping play for thirty minutes.

In the second half, Tom Shelburne came out hitting hard and intimidated the opposing side with tough defense. Davidson maintained strong possession and pushed upfield with experienced Simon Priestley’s accurate kicking. Despite tough play across the board, Davidson did not manage to score by the end of regulation.

Just minutes into sudden death overtime, however, Hank Ackerman took a pass from Frank Killian and surged twenty yards into the tri-zone. Ackerman’s game-winning run was a climactic finish to a hard-fought match.

Cats gear up for cockfight
Futbol continued from page 13

Florida International. This Thursday’s game will be big for Davidson when they take on the #7 South Carolina. After dropping their first two games to #1 Indiana and #8 St. Louis, they have yet to lose again with wins over strong opponents like Rutgers. South Carolina returns seven starters from last year’s Final Four squad and has become stronger. The Wildcats will have to start being more careful. Four of the 18 goals surrendered this season have been penalty kicks. Fan support will be important for the Wildcats to be victorious, so come support your Wildcats before leaving for Fall Break.long, hard-fought match. Davidson dominated the second game, winning off of a penalty kick courtesy of Simon Priestley. Brian Blythe played well in the scrum and Scott Burkivardt’s running was key in the backfield. Strong defense shut out Appalachian State once again, rendering them scoreless and winless for the day.

SPORTS MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1994

Soccer players run down the field. Photo by Marian Woodworth

Women's soccer turns it around
By Lee Brumby

The Davidson Women’s Soccer team snapped a five-game losing streak Saturday by beating UNC-Asheville 4-0. The Cats struggled earlier in the week against a new Wake Forest team, falling to the Demon Deacons 2-1. Several players contributed to the Cats' offense in last week’s games. Ellen Sprinkle provided a goal in both contests and an assist in the Asheville game. Claudia Lombard, Kelly Schmidt, and Kelly Ammann each added a goal in Saturday’s action while Lombard, Schmidt, Sarah Cantrell, and Amy Lindstrom each had an assist. Melissa Moser recorded the lone assist in the Wake game.

According to Coach Hundley, “We were disappointed to let the win slide by in the game. The team looked past the Wake Forest game because of their record and results this season. We got in the hole down 2-0 in the first half and learned the lesson about playing the entire game.” The Cats learned quickly and played hard the entire game against Asheville. Midfielder Melissa Moser was thrilled with Saturday’s result. “Hopefully the win is the turning point of the season and we’ll win the rest of our games this season.”

Coach Hundley’s team, now 2-7, 1-0 in the Southern Conference, has struggled with putting the ball in the back of the net this season. Last year’s leading scorer Claudia Lombard has five goals in the Cats' first nine games, and last year’s second leading scorer Heather Wineburg has yet to score. The team’s bright spot this season has been senior goalkeeper Liz Schaper, according to Hundley. He’s pleased with the progress of the defense because, “If we’re going to struggle scoring, we must keep the ball out of our net.”

The women’s soccer team has now completed the most difficult stretch of the schedule. The team’s next two games, Appalachian State Sunday and Furman Wednesday, are Southern Conference contests and will set the tone for the rest of the season.

Support your Wildcat athletic teams. Go Cats.

The Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough Sundae is our famous cookie dough ice cream topped with rich hot fudge, chocolate whipped cream, and real chocolate chips! 202 S. Main St. Davidson, NC 892-0604

When you need to stretch your food budget, let Papa John’s pizza help out. Use the coupons below to enjoy some great pizza values. PLUS, you always get Papa John’s special garlic sauce and pepperoncinis at no extra cost! So if the only thing you can find in your pocket is lint, it’s definitely time to get Papa John’s on the phone.

WHEN THE CHECK FROM DAD IS A LITTLE LATE

Lake Norman
Norman Square Shopping Center