2 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1994

Transcript fee raised; some students concerned
By Jay Jennings

Many students are unaware that although their initial transcript is free, the Registrar’s office has raised the price of additional
transcripts from one dollar to three dollars. Registrar Polly Griffin cites legitimate reasons for the increase; however, many students complain
that they already spend enough money on tuition and fees to cover this relatively minor cost. Senior Steve Krause says
the change is "ridiculous, because it is the college’s job to help students get a job or apply to graduate
school. This process is already expensive, and I do not believe that it costs three dollars to produce a transcript."
Krause believes that students should "get at least one transcript free each year."

Griffin says that although the fee had been the same for several years, one dollar "did not cover the costs."
She explains that because of mailing bills and labor, it costs much more than a dollar to produce a transcript.
She believes that three dollars is a "much better representation of the costs." The money from the transcripts goes back
into a general fees account. The cost of transcripts is attributed almost entirely to labor. Griffin says that the job
of producing transcripts takes "35% to 40%" of a person’s job in the Registrar’s office. After deciding that the one
dollar fee did not accurately represent the costs of producing a transcript, the Registrar’s office decided to look at what
other similar schools charged for transcripts. Some schools like Wesleyan and Swarthmore charge five dollars, while others like Washington and
Lee have an administrative fee built into the tuition bill and do not charge for each transcript. Griffin decided that
a rise to five dollars would be too drastic; thus the three dollar charge represents a compromise in her eyes.
She did not feel that it would be fair to have the administrative cost, because current students would then be
paying for the transcripts of graduates.

Griffin wants to emphasize that this change was not an "arbitrary change" and represented significant research. Griffin adds that she
is "very sympathetic" to the concerns of the students, but that the increase was necessary. She said that there is
good news, because students can "charge the fee to their accounts and not have to pay for them in cash."
Senior Josh Rogers says that the change is "another way for the Registrar’s office to fund itself" and believes it
is "hard to justify a 300% increase." Rogers does not feel that Davidson should compare itself to other schools and
"try to conform to what they are doing."

Davidson town planning moves forward
By Randy Hartwell

At an October 25th Board of Commissioners meeting, work continued on Davidson’s monumental task of finding the best course of
action for the town’s new and expected growth. To do this, an 18-member land development planning commission will be appointed,
consisting of the nine members of the planning board as well as nine town residents. Town planner Tim Keane feels
confident about his prospects for the establishment of a unified mission. "We’ve gotten to a point where people want to
do something," he says. In anticipation of this, a workshop will be held on November 12 at UNCC with David
Walters, an architect and urban designer. On November 28, a town meeting to discuss the land plan will be held
at Town Hall.

While many residents anxiously await the progress of a bustling new town, some look back wistfully on Davidson’s picturesque past.
Lou Green of the Christa Faut Gallery says, "I think growth is inevitable — it’s so hard; you want it
to stay autonomous." She adds, "The days of town and gown are gone." Barbara Freund, co-owner of Main Street Books,
vehemently opposes Davidson’s anticipated growth. "I like it [Davidson] the way it is," she says. "I came to Charlotte 35
years ago, and I’ve seen it ruined by growth and change."

Davidson townspeople fear potential, looming development.
Photo by Rob Kosicki

Concentrations: International studies, neuroscience, and medical humanitiesBeth Lindsey
International Studies

Beginning in the 1987-88 academic year, International Studies was the first concentration introduced at Davidson. There have been between 10
and 22 students in each graduating class, with 13 students enrolled in the graduating class of 1995. The program has
several distinct facets including the incorporation of classes of an international and/or multicultural nature, proficiency in a foreign language, and
a study or work experience outside of the United States.

Says Dr. Clark Ross, Professor of Economics, “I really like the idea of having a distinct major and being able
to build on their interest in an interdisciplinary study. To me, the transcript recognition is not as much the emphasis
of a concentration than is the opportunity for a student to explore an area of his or her interest in
a certain area. A student’s interest in the subject is what really matters.”

Another important facet of this study is the emphasis on contemporary problems. “The problems of today’s society simply cannot be
solved by looking at it solely in a historical, economical, or social context. This program aims at involving students in
an interdisciplinary study that is representative of the real world.”

Applications should be submitted by the conclusion of the drop/add period of the fall semester of the senior year to
accommodate those studying abroad during their junior year. Questions can be addressed to Dr. Clark Ross.

Medical Humanities

The Medical Humanities concentration consists of 50 sophomores, juniors, and seniors along with six to eight students who are majoring
in Medical Ethics through the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies. There are 20 faculty members involved in this program.

“The concentration really helps us to pull together from a variety of different disciplines, involving a diverse number of departments
which provide different ways of thinking but maintain a principle unity around a common theme,” says Dr. Rosemarie Tong, Professor
of Medical Humanities and Philosophy. “It presents to students a broadly conceived notion of medicine and health care reflecting the
fundamental issues which affect the human psyche. The interdisciplinary nature is necessary for this subject matter due to the large
number of considerations when confronting issues of health care and medicine in today’s society.”

While Dr. Tong likes the concept of the concentration because it can primarily be built upon the courses already being
offered, she says concentrations also provide a reason to offer new courses. “A faculty member may get an idea for
a new course that would fit under this topic while the existence of this concentration could also cause a department
to choose to initiate course X over course Y because it now has this added use.”

Applications for the Medical Humanities concentration should be submitted by the last day of the spring semester of the sophomore
year. Any questions concerning the program can be directed to Dr. Rosemarie Tong.

Neuroscience

The Neuroscience concentration, an in-depth study of the brain, has been in place since 1992. It was first initiated by
Dr. Julio Ramirez, a professor in the psychology department, because he simply felt the time was appropriate, and Davidson does
have the faculty to support it. Participants mainly include psychology, biology, and chemistry majors with an average of two to
five students graduating each year as neuroscience concentrators.

“The concentration technique is really ideal for the study of neuroscience, for it allows for much more flexibility within a
curriculum. Developing areas in science can be explored not only in-depth but more importantly on an interdisciplinary level,” says Ramirez.
“It includes an intensive laboratory combined with a pedagogical focus, involving student exploration of a particular problem from multiple perspectives.”

The program itself includes two required courses along with four elective courses which can be chosen from the list of
possibilities found in the course catalog. Applications must be received by the last day of the spring semester of the
sophomore year for consideration. Dr. Julio Ramirez of the psychology department can answer any questions.

Third in a series

The Best Kept Secret in Davidson
Unique Clothing, Jewelry, Accessories and Gifts
406 South Main St.
Davidson, NC
896-8860
