8 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 1994

Students explore majors, summer opportunities, future possibilities

By Scott Windham

Students who are unsure of career plans and are trying to decide between many different career paths can receive advice
and assistance at the Office of Career Services. In addition, underclassmen considering options for a major, summer job, or internship
are highly encouraged to use Career Services’ facilities, according to director Carol Jordan.

Jordan typically schedules over 700 career counseling sessions per year with Davidson students and recent graduates. After completing a resume
with the help of Career Services staff members, students sign up for a session with Jordan to polish and strengthen
resumes, discuss options for summer and semester employment, and consider career plans. A session typically lasts between thirty minutes and
one hour.

It is not necessary for a student to have a concrete idea of what he or she wants to do
for a summer, year-long, or long-term job, but it is advisable for them to have a general awareness of their
strengths, interests, and goals. Jordan emphasizes that success often depends largely on the student’s willingness to follow up on information
and ideas gained through counseling sessions. Exploring options, she says, is the key to success, especially for students who have
only a vague idea of career interests. For this type of exploration, Jordan highly recommends mentorships, internships, and informational interviews.
Students can take advantage of these opportunities by visiting the Office of Career Services, the Office for Experiential Programs, the
Dean Rusk program, and other departments on campus.

Jordan also employs several testing devices to assist students in making career-related decisions. She often uses the Strong-Campbell career interest
inventory.

Senior class meeting broadens horizons

By Sally Stone

Seniors took one step closer to graduation Thursday night, January 27 when the Career Services Office held the spring Senior
Class Meeting to offer guidance and support to the class. Over fifty students attended the brief meeting in the Multi-Purpose
Room. They first heard from Kristin Atkins and Rod Carter, chairpersons of the Senior Class Gift Committee, who announced an
upcoming forum to decide on the senior class gift and to generate broad support of its commission.

Careers Office director Carol Jordan began the meeting with words of support and encouragement as she stated, “If you haven’t
found what you want to do yet... that’s great” because the careers office has the means and ability to assist
students. She reminded seniors to utilize on-campus activities like in-

Board bills are expensive

Bills continued from page 5

$1,200 for only five meals a week. To supplement this number of meals, many members are forced to eat in
the Commons. For the most part, flexibility characterizes the women’s houses. Junior Liz Flemming believes that Connor House is “very
willing to accommodate problems.” Sophomore Katherine Hash says “Rusk has long lists of flexible options for seniors, and underclassmen pay
full board unless they have a class or work conflict.” The women’s houses all offer breakfast and have food out
and available for random snacking.

Unfortunately for the men, they do not enjoy as many eating privileges within their fraternities. All of the houses on
Patterson Court encourage their members to eat full board, which enables the house to have better meals. Senior Josh Larned
does not eat at his fraternity anymore, because the “food isn’t very good and I still have to pay $430
for beer.” If you are still questioning the quality and quantity of food, the flexibility in meals, and the cost
of your board, then perhaps you should rethink Vail.

Steinberg on Michelangelo's secrets

Art continued from page 1

erous hospitality that I will treasure as long as I live.” Michelangelo’s sculpture, Pieta, is found in the St. Peter’s
chapel in Rome.

Steinberg addressed the engineering and emotional expressiveness of the Pieta by revealing the results of his extensive research in discovering
secrets and disturbances found in the sculpture. For instance, Steinberg spoke of the Virgin’s body structure and youth, the technical
aspects of Christ’s body and position on Mary’s lap, and the symbolic Eucharistic meaning of the sculpture as a whole.

Born in Moscow, Steinberg is the retired holder of the Benjamin Franklin Chair in art history at the University of
Pennsylvania. His areas of expertise in art include Michelangelo, Picasso, the architecture of Borromini, and the nature of post-modernism. Steinberg’s
written works include Other Criteria, a collection of his writings on modern art, Michelangelo’s Last Painting, and his most recent
book, the extremely controversial The Sexuality of Christ in the Renaissance Art and in Modern Oblivion. Steinberg’s credentials reflect his
intelligence and talent as an art historian. A member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and of the
University College in London, he was also the first art historian to receive an Award in Literature from the American
Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters. In addition, he received the top writing award bestowed by the College Art
Association: TheFrank Jewett Mather Award. Art history professor Shaw Smith comments that Leo Steinberg shows scholars that “we should all
be better teachers and look more carefully and thoughtfully at art. He has inspired us all.”

She also noted that the careers office could help seniors if they design their own search. Scott Windham and Margaret
Goode reinforced Jordan’s advice. Both emphasized the on-campus events, distinguishing between the different types of interviews and information sessions. Windham
also advised seniors who were planning for the coming years to think one to four years ahead, not forty years.
He further stated, “Do what you love and the money will follow.” The meeting concluded after Goode reminded the wary
seniors to “visit [the careers office] often” and be conscientious.

In conjunction with the Myers-Briggs personality profile to mesh a student’s current job interests and personality traits, the highly informative
SigiPlus computer program is an excellent indicator of personal values, which are another highly important criterion for choosing a career.
Jordan points out that while these three inventories are useful for making discoveries about oneself, a career counseling session is
equally important for interpreting and combining results, verbalizing plans and ideas, and considering options.

Senior Cynthia Brooks, an Art History major from Devon, Pennsylvania, recently took the Myers-Briggs inventory. Although each incoming freshman takes
the Myers-Briggs, scores often change over a student’s career at Davidson. Brooks comments that the test gave an accurate profile
and was, for her, an affirming process. The inventory indicated, for example, a strong correlation between Brooks’ preference for art
and her personality traits. Myers-Briggs does not necessarily eliminate certain options but indicates which career fields might be undesirable or
less productive for a student. For example, a student with a high score for introversion might struggle in a job
which demands constant contact with groups of people. Brooks adds that the inventory gave her new ideas of fields she
might be interested in pursuing and gave her a different perspective on her own interests and personality traits.

CAMPUS CRIME

January 10: Sometime between 7:30 p.m. and 10:20 p.m., someone knocked down a light pole outside New Apartment Building D.
The pole sustained $150 in damage.

January 22: A Union Outpost employee reported a microwave oven worth $350 as missing. On January 23, the oven was
found locked in a closet in the Outpost.

January 23: Sometime between 12:30 a.m. and 11:00 a.m., someone threw a rock, breaking a car window in the Satellite
parking lot. The person then removed a CD player valued at $800 and 8 CDs valued at $120.

The police department has collected various bicycles during the fall and summer. Also, several bikes were picked up in dorm
hallways over Christmas. All bikes are now held in storage. After being held for six months, the bicycles will be
auctioned off. However, the college police prefer that the owners come and claim them.

—Compiled by Ashlyn Dannelly

Planning Committee responds to MPC report

Union continued from page 1

A new Union in this location would be close to most residence halls, Patterson Court, the Commons, athletic fields, Chambers,
and the library and would attract the “pedestrian traffic” en route to those destinations. The new Union would take over
the various activities and offices currently housed in Grey. The committee recommends that it also house an ATM machine, a
copy machine, 24-hour computers, a laundry distribution point, and/or a laundromat. Input from campus groups has indicated that “food is
critical to the success” of the new Union, so the committee recommends that the new Union operate a pub/cafe serving
a variety of favorite foods at almost all hours. Large open areas for “gathering” and well-lighted study areas both with
sofas and chairs are also important parts of the committee's conception of the new Union.

The committee did not agree with MPC’s recommendation that the current union building Grey become a “Union Auxiliary.” MPC suggested
that Grey could serve as a place for students and faculty to “hang out” during the day, but the committee
is opposed to MPC’s pointed separation of daytime and nighttime activities. According to McMillen, the Union Planning Committee wants to
“encourage all interaction in a central location at any time of day or night” in order to “strengthen the college’s
sense of community.”

MPC suggested that the bookstore stay in Grey in what would be the Auxiliary Union, but the committee strongly opposes
this idea. The bookstore is, for many prospective students and their parents, an important part of the college’s image and
ought to, according to the committee, make a statement about the school’s identity. The committee would like to see the
bookstore in its own space in the new Union where it could become an integral part of the campus, generate
more revenues, and possibly become the setting for poetry readings, book signings, and live music.

If You Missed the Cooking at BACON AND EGGS

Come See the Old Gang at...

Chat & Chew
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, NC
664-4665
Open Monday-Sunday 5:00 am to 11:00 pm

WELCOME DAVIDSON COLLEGE!
