16 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 1994

Abbott releases second book of poems, A Small Thing Like a Breath

By Alex Crumbley

About a month before break, English department chairman Tony Abbott’s new book of poems, A Small Thing Like a Breath,
crept from St. Andrews Press and into bookstores, unnoticed by most of us Davidsonians who were chronically busy with papers,
exams, and Christmas plans. Though he has given a couple of readings from the new book around town, it is
still largely unknown to students. Because Abbott speaks in an instructive and down-to-earth voice, all students would benefit greatly from
putting down their textbooks for a few minutes and pecking into the mind of this poet who offers us a
share in his experience.

Dr. Abbott can rightly call A Small Thing Like a Breath a book rather than just a collection of poems.
Primarily autobiographical and written in free verse, his poems fit into four sections progressing in each section through the life
pattern from childhood to maturity, eventually growing into the poet’s mind at present. Abbott ties archetypal questions of God, innocence,
and morality to his own experience and uses the cyclical nature of human growth as a vehicle for expressing his
realizations about these questions. His romantic bent appears through his belief in these cycles; in the title section, he acts
on the Wordsworthian idea that “The Child is father of the Man” as he draws upon childhood experiences to gain
wisdom. He sometimes uses young narrators, but usually retains the language and reflective mood of an adult looking back on
his past. He juxtaposes humorous poems like “On the Terror of Being Chosen Last in Kickball,” with serious topics like
rape in “College Days” to contrast the innocence of childhood with the teenager’s quick and rude introduction into the world
of experience.

Abbott seems to be concerned in much of his poetry with the romantic problem of getting “unstuck,” as he calls
it in a second-year humanities lecture, from the bounds of adult reason and language. He spends the next three sections
of his book trying to reconcile his “immortal longings” with his human limitations. “Far from Home,” the second section, contains
themes important to the young adult, such as religious questioning and the confused sense of home. He jumps off the
page and into the reader’s lap in the section’s title poem with his plain and impassioned lyrics, as he describes
“the head-shaking, arm-swinging, foot-stomping, bone-rattling, shit-shaking taste of home.” In poems like “Jesus Saves” and “Christmas Vespers” he probes into
religious questions. His skepticism of the church mixes poignantly with his child-like awe of God, and his desire for the
divine is often challenged and strengthened by his disillusionment with popular religion.

In the last two sections, “Lost and Found” and “The Mole Flower,” Abbott begins to resolve the questions which plague
him in the first two sections: He realizes that he can be comfortable with life’s basic ironies and find salvation
from the world’s maddening noise through art—in poetry, he is found. Poems about language, like “Carrot Colored Words” and “Words
Are the Only Fingers of the Soul,” as well as a series of meditations on inspiration, convey his love for
this new-found art. These poems also instruct the aspiring writer about words themselves and the fickle nature of the muse.

Often, autobiographical literature can be limiting to the author as his subjects can remain too confined to his own experience.
But the main strength of Abbott’s book,and what makes his poems not only important individually but as a part of
a whole, is the consistently personal, straight-talking tone he takes with the reader. Rarely does he venture into a different
persona, and we soon get the feeling that he does not need to assume any masks as he relates to
us his very sincere and direct messages. A teacher through and through, he succeeds in showing us the way, taking
the reader past what is merely personal to what is universal. As he crafts for us words about experience and
about writing, we grow to like him, trust him, share his concerns, feel his frustrations, and, above all, to learn
from him.

Schindler sweeps the Golden Globes

List continued from page 16

occurred was overwhelming to me. A warning: it is probably best not to eat anything before or during the picture
because your stomach will definitely be doing some loops during certain scenes. However, the violence was not shown for the
sake of violence; it was simply a reality that the characters were forced to endure. Though I personally feel Schindler’s
List is inferior to Spielberg’s other Oscar opus, The Color Purple, it is nevertheless a great film and a moving
testament to the power of the human spirit. I strongly urge all of y’all to go out and see this
film if you haven’t already—it will most certainly make an impact on you.

Anyway, that’s all for this week. Upcoming events to look forward to: Oscar nominations will be revealed February 9 and
new films with Glenn Close, Michael Keaton, Marisa Tomei, Robert Duvall, and Kim and Alec loom on the horizon. Stay
on the alert for these and other developments, and I’ll see y’all next week.

ART

The “Big Print” Exhibition. William Van Every Gallery. Visual Arts Center. Through February 28.

The Kate Collie Exhibition. Edward M. Smith Gallery Visual Arts Center. Through February 28.

Gullah Landscapes. Afro-American Cultural Center, Charlotte. Through February 28. Call 374-1565 for more info.

Classical Taste in America: 1800-1840. Mint Museum, Charlotte. Through March 13. For info call 337-2000.

MUSIC

“A Little Peace Music”. Hodson Hall, Cunningham Fine Arts Building. January 31 at 8:00 p.m.

Charlotte Symphony Orchestra. Performing Arts Center. February 5 at 8:00 p.m. and February 6 at 2:00 p.m. Call 372-1000 for
more info.

Davidson College Woodwind Ensemble. Hodson Hall, Cunningham Fine Arts Building. February 6 at 8:00 p.m.

Robert Cray. Performing Arts Center. February 11.

Gladys Knight and Company. Performing Arts Center. February 12.

SPEAKERS

Michael Zantovsky, Ambassador of Czech Republic. 900 Room, January 31, 7:00 p.m.

Kate Collie. Presentation in conjunction with her exhibition. Multipurpose Room, Chambers. February 2 at 7:30 p.m.

Bhikkhu Dhammavihari. “Religiousness in Buddhism and Global Community.” 900 Room, February 2, 7:30 p.m.

THEATER/DANCE/MOVIES

Orlando. Mint Museum, Charlotte. February 1 at 7:30 p.m. This is a low profile gem that has received raves. Y’all
should definitely check out this one.

Malcolm X. 900 Room. February 2 at 9:30 p.m., February 4 at 8:00 p.m.

Schindler’s List. Arboretum 10 Cinemas.

Aladdin. Spirit Square, Charlotte. February 6 at 2:00 p.m. Call 372-SHOW for more info.

MISCELLANEOUS

Medieval Society. Phi Hall, upstairs. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m.

Eumenean Society. EU Hall, upstairs. 7:30-9:00 p.m.

Jumping Java Cafe, International Coffee House Union Outpost. February 5, 2:00-6:00 p.m.

Philanthropic Society Meeting, Phi Hall, upstairs. February 6, 9:00 p.m.

Vesper Service. Big Screen Room, Union. February 6, 10:00 p.m.

- Compiled by Scott McLean & Josh Larned
