THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1994

Future of new eating houses - still up in the air
By Beth Lindsay

For a couple of weeks last semester, loud promotional flyers for a new co-ed eating house made bold claims and covered every dorm door and bathroom wall, but talk of creating a new house died away as quickly as it had come. Supporters of the new house were left wondering why the two separate proposals for new eating houses on Patterson Court disappeared so quickly last semester.

Sophomore Samantha Hackett says, “there was simply a lack of interest” in a new eating house. Yet there is still much talk about continuing with plans for a co-ed eating house. Hackett and other organizers were disheartened by the low turnout at a McKee House organizational meeting held at the end of last semester. McKee hoped to offer an eating house option that “does it better.” Proposed enticements included catered food services, social theme parties and mixers, and a self-selection option for men.

When asked about the problems with her effort, Hackett responds that organizers “were hampered by the alternative stereotype of the former co-ed eating house, PAX.” She adds, “people are really scared of commitment and of starting something new. People need to be willing to put their money where their mouth is.”

Sophomore Allison Sabel experienced many of the same problems as Hackett in her attempts to organize a second new house. Sabel held several organizational meetings to arouse interest in another option for women on Patterson Court. She hoped that the new house would be smaller than the existing women’s houses and planned to provide nutritious food with vegetarian options. She found, however, that “people were afraid to commit to something that they weren’t sure about.”

The task of both groups of organizers was made more difficult by the fact that two houses were attempting to form at the same time. The college agreed to remodel PAX as the location for a new house if organizers could get 40 upperclassmen to commit to the house financially and 20 freshmen to self-select the house. The numbers were not there.

According to Sabel, interest for the new women’s house has not died: “There is still the need for another house, and the interest is there." A strong core group aims to continue to spread the idea of a co-ed eating house on the court. Their goal is to make use of the “friend network” — publicizing their cause via person-to-person conversation. While the co-ed eating house proposal is still in the planning stages, the group feels very optimistic that “there is more interest than ever before." They would like to try to reach independents with meetings on freshman halls.

Pepe le Peu strikes off campus
Photo courtesy of Belk 443
By Wendy Lee

A skunk invaded the outside heating system of an off-campus home last week forcing the four Davidson juniors who live there to evacuate. “We were skunked out of our house,” explained one of the house’s inhabitants, Rhen Otts.

Otts and her roommates, Angie Williams, Shelly Baker, and Amanda Lesesne, had been living in their home only a week and a half when they awoke early Saturday, January 29 to the smell of skunk spray circulating through their house via the heating vents. According to Otts, “the smell invaded everything in the house—clothing, beds and sheets, and school books.” She said that their “cars smell just as bad as the house.”

Early in the week the women began hearing complaints about the skunk smell from neighbors. By Tuesday, the women, who could tolerate the foul smell no more than their neighbors, packed up and moved to a hotel in Cornelius. Before leaving, Otts and her roommates attempted to lessen the smell by placing fans, bowls of Clorox, and baking soda throughout the house. They attempted to rid their clothes of the smell by washing them two or three times, but their efforts were to no avail explained Otts who has, “been in the same clothes for a week.”

A Pest Control representative placed traps in their yard to catch the pesky skunk, and the women hope to be back in their house by the end of the week. George Morris, Grounds Supervisor for Davidson’s Physical Plant, explained that Davidson, with its numerous drain pipes, is a suitable habitat for skunks. The influx of skunks onto the campus in the last few weeks...can be blamed on the warmer weather. The animals, which were hibernating during the hard freeze in mid-January, are now emerging to search for food. When the grounds crew receives reports that there are a large number of skunks inhabiting a particular area on campus, they attempt to capture the skunks with “Have a Heart” traps which do not harm the animals. Captured skunks are transported by Mecklenburg Animal Control to uninhabited areas. Morris advises students not to act alarmed when they see a skunk on campus. The chance that a skunk will spray increases when it feels threatened. Morris notes that an encounter with a skunk is more likely to occur at night, at dusk, or in the early morning because skunks are nocturnal animals. He reassures, however, that “if you won’t bother them, they won’t bother you.” For those who are unfortunate enough to be sprayed, Morris recommends a tomato juice bath as the best remedy for the smell.

Photo by Amy Laukkanen

Junior Sara Withers speaks with Bhikkhu Dhammavihari.

Buddhist explains global faith
By Carrie Blackburn

Although many people envision the Buddha as a fat laughing man found outside of Chinese restaurants, the Venerable Bhikkhu Dhammavihari calls such an image “ridiculous.”

Addressing a crowd on February 2 as a part of the Dean Rusk Program, the Buddhist monk lectured on “Buddhist Spirituality and the Global Community." A bust of the Buddha and the scent of incense in the 900 Room enhanced the atmosphere as the Bhikkhu spoke on the basic premises of Buddhism. Is Buddhism a philosophy or a religion? Ultimately, he says, the label is irrelevant: “as long as love comes into the community, the brand name doesn’t matter.”

Buddhism, which Siddhartha Gautama, “the Enlightened One," discovered in 600 BCE, spread from India, across Asia, and into the Middle East. Followers carried the message along the silk route, reaching China in 50 CE. The Bhikkhu attributes China with contributing greatly to the spread of Buddhism. He says that in Asia, “you can still see the contribution Buddhism has made to enrich the lives of the people.” For instance, in Japan the tea ceremony and tradition of landscape gardening emerged from Buddhist ceremonies.

One of the appealing themes of the Buddha’s message is his sex, age, race, or caste. The Bhikkhu comments that he “has been a guiding force of numerous people, not one nationality or race.”

The Bhikkhu Dhammavihari decided to become a Buddhist monk after teaching Buddhism and Pali (an Indian language) for over 60 years in both his native country of Sri Lanka and at the University of Toronto in Canada. He spent 6 months in the jungle studying with other monks. Adhering to an extremely austere lifestyle, the monks ventured into the village only once a day with just a bowl in which to receive their daily meal. After his ordination in May 1990, the Bhikkhu slowly moved back into the community to find a receptive audience. He still believes strongly in the Zen Buddhist practice of remaining close to nature and tries to return to the jungle every couple of months.

The Bhikkhu serves as the editor-in-chief of the Encyclopedia of Buddhism. His work, A Correct Vision and a Life Sublime, has received much acclaim. He has resided in a monastery in Washington, D.C., since June. There he serves as a teacher and a guide to his Buddhist followers. Dr. Mahony felt honored to have this “world-renowned scholar” speak to his Buddhist traditions class, and he feels that “the fact that he was here helps us to see that we're talking about a real tradition.”

STUDENTS AND FACULTY

Bring Your Sweetheart To Davino's Restaurant For Lunch Or Dinner

Prime Rib Dinner With Soup Or Salad, Bread, Baked Potato, Glass of Wine or Beer For $10.95

DAVINO'S

Chicken Fettuccine Alfredo With Soup Or Salad, Bread, Glass Of Wine Or Beer For $9.95

Hours: Mon.-Fri. 11:30-10:00
Sat. 4:00-10:00
I-77 Exit 30
Sadler Square
Davidson
892-4794

Thursday, February 10
Teach/Serve Jamaica at the Iona School in Ocho Rios
Informational meeting with Dean Brown
4:00 p.m., Wilson Room, Union
and/or sign up for an appointment with Mr. Brown in the Office for Experiential Programs

50% off Sale — Ladies Distinctive Fashions & Jewelry
106 S. Main St. in Davidson
(704) 896-8860
Open 10-6 Mon-Sat