_SPORTS_ __ MONDAY, AUGUST 29, 1994

Davidson to host nationally televised weekly soccer games
By Will Cobb

To follow the success of last summer’s World Cup, Integrity Sports and Davidson College have teamed up with the answer for newly found soccer fans. College Soccer Weekly - Game of the Week is a ten-game series featuring a southeastern team paired against a nationally prominent opponent. Each game will be shown on national television from Richardson Field each Wednesday night starting this week.

“This event is the natural thing to follow the World Cup. The players on the 1998 World Cup team will probably play at Davidson this fall,” said Tom Sorboro, athletic marketing intern. This package is the first of its kind and hopes to maintain the level of enthusiasm generated for soccer this past summer. Of the 20 teams featured this fall, 12 are ranked in Soccer America’s preseason poll, including the top six. In addition, all but one of the preseason All-Americans will compete during the 10-game series.

“The quality of play will be equal to that of the Final Four. There is a high probability of these teams being in the Final Four,” said Lee Sargent, assistant to the athletic director for special projects.

The 10-game series will begin this Wednesday night when three-time defending national champion Virginia faces five-time national champion San Francisco. Despite losing two-time Player of the Year Claudio Reyna to professional soccer in Germany, the Cavaliers enter the 1994 season where they left: #1 in the country. Over the next 10 weeks, the previous 12 and 27 of the last 35 national champions will compete here at Davidson. Other than Virginia and San Francisco, other former national champions include St. Louis, Indiana, Clemson, Duke, and Davidson’s opponent, UCLA. The games will be aired on SportsSouth in this region and nationally through the PRIME Network.

Men's soccer hopes to rebound with experienced players
By Will Cobb

The excitement is back for men’s soccer at Davidson. Injuries are healed and two of the players from the 1992 Final Four squad that missed last season are back as well. After enduring the frustrating 1993 campaign that was filled with tough losses, season-ending injuries, and an absence of leadership, the Wildcats look to rebound with experience and cohesiveness.

“Everyone on the team had to take a big step last year. Most of the guys have started before and have played the role they will play this year,” said head coach Charlie Slagle.

A major difference for the Cats this season will be conditioning, and as a result, hopefully fewer injuries will occur. “Everybody came back in great shape, with a great level of experience. The midfield is one of the strongest we’ve ever had. The backs are young, but talented,” said Slagle.

The midfield looks to be solid with the combination of the crafty sophomore Fernando Campos and senior John Sampers, who returns from leave. “Having [Sampers] back as a player is great, but as a leader it is amazing,” said Slagle. On the wings in the midfield will be familiar faces Ian O’Brien and Ryan Northington, the only junior members of the Final Four squad. The defense looks to improve on last year’s difficulty against tough competition with a healthy Coley Dominiak and Chad Lagerway, along with third-year starter and co-captain Tommy Suter. Sophomore Isaac Stewart will anchor the defense at sweeper.

Slagle will enjoy a luxury he hasn’t enjoyed in some time: depth. Juniors Pete Boylan and Nick Troiano look strong for considerable playing time and possible starting positions. The same situation lies up front as well. Senior Jon Olin will start this year, but his position has yet to be determined. The utility player has played every position except goalie since coming to Davidson and will continue to be used the same way this fall. Another senior, John Hudson, stands to be a familiar face on the front line with valuable experience from last season. Other players to see time up front will include the explosive Keith Kleeman and the powerful Robert Clarke.

Only two freshmen, Phil Julyian and Mike Ripley, have joined this year’s squad. Despite having only two, both will see considerable playing time. The Wildcats are set at goalkeeper with the return of Deegan and starter Neal Andrews. Though Deegan’s knee has fully recuperated, an ankle injury has prevented him from returning to full strength, so there is a high probability that Andrews will start early in the season.

Despite having only six home games, Davidson will compete in tournaments nearby at UNC-Charlotte and in Columbia, SC. The Wildcats will open the season at...

See Soccer continued on page 13hopes. 

"As a soccer fan and college soccer fan, this is awesome. Now college soccer has continuity with a steady group of players as opposed to the professional level in America, so there is a consistent group of top players and teams,” said Davidson head soccer coach Charlie Slagle. Davidson will play on October 14 against the UCLA Bruins. During the 1992 season, the Wildcats traveled to California over fall break and upset the Bruins by scoring three goals on U.S. National Team goalie Brad Friedel. 

In order to attract more students and college staff, a special package has been put together offering all 10 games for just $25. Individual games will be sold for $5 a game. Since the College Soccer Weekly Game of the Week is not a Davidson event, students will have to purchase tickets in order to attend, including the Davidson-UCLA game. This unique event stands to be a good build-up for the Final Four in December, which has already sold over 10,500 tickets. For the lifelong or growing soccer fan, this event provides an unparalleled opportunity to see the future of U.S. soccer at a bargain price.

Photo by Robert Ramsay

By Will Cobb

Despite having just 17 players this fall, head coach Kevin Hundley sees all signs pointing toward a strong season this fall for the women’s soccer program. Almost immediately following last year’s 9-9-1 season, the Cats made the best use of the offseason. “All of the hard work in the spring and individual efforts over the summer are really paying off right now,” said Hundley.

This fall will feature the inaugural season for women’s soccer in the Southern Conference. With the addition of new programs at Furman and Appalachian State, Davidson will play a double round-robin along with Georgia Southern during the regular season. “This group has worked real hard and it is nice to finally have something tangible to work for as a goal,” said Hundley. Of the team’s 19 games, six opponents will be first-year programs. Women’s soccer is by far the fastest-growing sport in college athletics. The schedule features several new opponents, many of which are out of region. Over fall break, the Cats will travel up north to face Fairfield and Rhode Island.

Unfortunately, Davidson will be without sophomores Jenn Beebe and Megan Driscoll due to out-of-season injuries. Despite the losses, the Cats look to fill holes from graduation and injuries with four strong freshmen. “We don’t have a lot of depth as far as raw numbers; I’m just crossing my fingers that we don’t have any injuries,” said Hundley. With on-field leadership from seniors Ellen Sprinkle, Jody Lewis, and Sarah Cantrell, the Cats will benefit from valuable experience. These three have played in almost every game since arriving as freshmen. In goal will be another senior, Liz Schaper, who has battled injury the past three years, but hopes a strong work ethic this past summer will keep her healthy. To lead the offense will be team MVP and crafty playmaker Claudia Lombard, a junior midfielder who already holds the school record for goals (20) and assists (18). After a brilliant sophomore season that culminated with a Division I All-South Region selection, Lombard looks to lead the Cats' quest for the first Southern Conference title for women’s soccer. Davidson will open up their season this Sunday when they face the Alabama Crimson Tide and will open up conference play the following weekend at Georgia Southern. With 10 home games, students will have several chances to come out and support the women’s soccer program.

Volleyball team enjoys talented freshmen recruit class

By Will Cobb

A strong freshman class has the volleyball team bouncing about their potential this season. Eight freshmen will boost four upperclass players returning from last year’s rebuilding season. “The upperclassmen came back strong,” coach Carolyn Blake said. “This is the strongest team Davidson has ever had. We have depth at every position.” The Wildcats will face a tough Southern Conference, led by Furman, Appalachian State, Georgia Southern, and East Tennessee State. Teams must play a double round-robin conference schedule, limiting other games, but Davidson did schedule Illinois, a top 25 team. But the new players are what have excited Blake and the team. “The freshmen are very versatile,” she said. “Each can play at least two positions, so we'll try a lot of different combinations.” The team opens its season this weekend with the two-day Davidson Invitational with Georgia Tech, Tennessee Tech, William and Mary, and Georgia Tech. “This weekend will be a real tough challenge, so we’ll get to see what we’re made of real early,” Blake said.