8 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 1994

I had lots of time on my hands over the break. I tried to keep myself as busy as possible
so that my mind wouldn’t start thinking about my future. The television didn’t always work, because I’d stare at MTV’s
Adam Curry and Full House’s Bob Saget and think, “These people have jobs, and I don’t.” I don’t mean to
brag, but I think that my personality is slightly more stimulating than the Bigfoot pizza guy. And tragedy of tragedies,
he’s sitting on his duff getting royalty checks every week for more than I'll make in a year cleaning out
monkey cages.

I finally decided just what would cheer me up and make me think about something other than the future approaching
me like a window approaches a bug. I was so desperate that I went to (English professors, take note) a
bookstore. I was in search of something light and refreshing, perhaps something in the fantasy persuasion. Disaster soon took hold
of me. For some reason, bookstores put all the most inspirational, fantasy-provoking material as high on the shelf as possible.
During the complicated machinations my body was going through in order to keep my head down and my eyes plastered
squarely on the cover of the Blond Bimbos in Bikinis Monthly, I ran straight into one of those cardboard display
thingies. Sure enough, it was a life-size cutout of my nemesis, Shaquille O’Neal. I stared stupidly for a while at
his grinning head, wondering what on earth this man can be doing in a bookstore. I figured it was a
book full of his song lyrics or something along those lines, but the reality was much more frightening. Shaquille O’Neal
has written an autobiography. No, I’m not making a joke that professional athletes are illiterate or anything. (After all, he
got into college. How on earth could he do that without being able to read?) My shock stemmed from the
fact that this guy is younger than me. Yes, his life story at age 21 is now published. I didn’t
read it, but I doubt that he has done much more than any other 21-year-old on the planet.

After I was done weeping, I started thinking about my own life and just how exciting it is. I mean,
I’m not as tall as Shaq, but I bet I have made a fool of myself in public more times
than he has, even if you count all the airings of his video on MTV. The last idea I had
for a book was inspired by that Gone With the Wind sequel. Mine would be called The Bible Part II.
I heard that the first one is a perennial favorite. How could a sequel lose? I’ll fill it with even
more sex and violence than there is in the first one and—Presto!—a sure-fire made-for-TV movie. My publisher dissuaded me from
the idea. I think it had to do with some legal problems. My understanding is the book was written some
time ago, and that those genealogies are so darn confusing. Who can keep up with all those begats? So I
gave up the idea and couldn’t come up with anything else until I stumbled over Shaq while looking for pornography.
Here was my ticket out of the real world. A book of my life would sell like flapjacks in a
lumberjacks’ camp. After all, the American public revels in other people’s misery. How else would you explain the success of
shows like Rescue 911? I don’t think that it’s William Shatner’s effervescent personality or Gil Gerard’s witty insights.

My autobiography is coming along nicely. I know that all of you are just dying to hear some stories about
my childhood, so I’ve decided to give you, my adoring public, a few highlights from my life:

March 3, 1972: My parents showed me my reflection in a mirror. I laughed and laughed. I constantly requested the
mirror and often threw tantrums just to look at myself.

June 27, 1972: I realized the fat, bald, toothless thing looking at me was actually me. I cried for three
solid days and that realization probably explains why I weep while brushing my teeth.

May 5, 1976: Went to preschool and tried to talk to a girl. She ran away in tears before I
could get three words out of my mouth. Later in the day, the cute little thing I tried to talk
to threw a rock at my head. I inquired about the meaning of this puzzling behavior and was told by
an adult that the girl had a crush on me. (No, I don’t get it either.) I was about as
close to understanding women then as I am now.

January 2, 1977: When questioned about who dumped a jar of honey on my brothers, I said that I did
it. While I was being spanked, I came to a lesson I’ve carried with me to this day: if it
can get you in trouble, lie like a tipped cow.

Well, folks, I hope you’ve enjoyed these tiny snippets of my life. Start saving your money now for my book.
If this book becomes a success, I may not have to reach for that top-shelf reading material to forget about
my future. Then I’ll be able to afford drugs.

Alex Crumbley

The media burlesque. Over Christmas, I had a chance to watch some television, at best a difficult activity for a
Davidson student to fit into his schedule. After watching a minimal amount of the tube for many months, I saw
it with fresh eyes and realized something which many heavy TV watchers may not notice while mesmerized by its dangerous
lullaby. What dawned on me was the amazing power of the media and the ways in which that power is
abused, every day, right before our glazed eyes. It may sound strange for a newspaper editor to criticize the media,
but I mean to focus more on the TV media than the written media, whose influence, incidentally, is steadily being
eclipsed. The media’s power is not difficult to recognize; it controls what the people know, and the tone in which
it presents that knowledge can determine how the public feels about a certain issue. Consider this scenario: a woman is
found dead. Her husband is suspected of the crime, but no evidence has been brought against him yet. The local
news program shows a picture of the crime scene, then a mug shot of her husband, then a picture of
him being thrust into a police car. For most, these pictures speaklouder than the voice behind them which says, “...
no formal allegations have been brought against him,” and we assume he is guilty. Everyone at one time or another
has seen the media’s ability to distort the truth, or to present it in such a way that most people
watching TV feel a certain way about it. This problem is not always the fault of the TV news program.
I know that people are constantly disgruntled with how they are portrayed in the Davidsonian. Our coverage of Oxfam was
apparently a disaster, and we often get letters from different groups complaining about this and that. I do not think
this problem is singular to the Davidsonian, and I know from first-hand experience how difficult it is to give everyone
a fair share of attention.

But lately the TV media has disturbed me with its overt sensationalism and its shameless desire to feed brain-dead America
whatever junk it wants. Before the earth in Southern California even finished quaking last Sunday, NBC was on the scene
with the dramatic heading “The Great Quake of '94” on our screens, and ABC, with an ominous drum march playing
in the background, titled the disaster the “Nightmare in Paradise” as if it were a movie. Tastelessly, they played over
and over again a tape of a mother learning for the first time of her daughter’s death and collapsing in
hysterical grief. Some things just are not meant to be publicized, and our TV producers seem to have lost the
tact to decide what is proper.

A few years ago during the Persian Gulf War, CNN, too, covered the action as if it were some sort
of sporting event. Their coverage was revolutionary in its thoroughness, but it drew our attention toward the military aspect of
the war rather than the humanitarian issues involved. The Gulf War is the first war the people of America were
able to watch like a mini-series; there were even Schwartzkopf and Powell action figures sold to promote the event.

Too often, the media focuses our attention on what is unusual or catchy rather than what is really important. A
few examples: the Bobbitt trial, baby Jessica (who fell down the well), the Amy Fisher story, the Koresh standoff, and,
of course, Panthermania. While we brood over Michael Jordan’s retirement, the rest of the world keeps on spinning, countries rise
and fall, and people die in Somalia and Yugoslavia.

I take offense to being labelled “the MTV generation,” not only because of MTV’s brainlessness, but also because of the
connotation that America defines itself through its television. We are setting a bad precedent if we succumb to the lure
of the media’s often tacky mindset and allow it to name our generation after a TV station. I hope that
our media realizes its faults and that it one day handles its enormous power in a more intelligent way. For
us, the first step in combating the media’s dominance, especially over “the MTV generation,” is to realize its limitations and
see it with educated and critical rather than entranced and powerless eyes.

Susan Beale

Enough Bobbitts, already. Are you frustrated and sick of hearing about the scandalous “Bobbitt Penis Trial?” I have to excuse
myself for appearing to jump on the bandwagon and contribute even more coverage and hype to the saga. Actually, I
was slightly interested when I first heard about Lorena Bobbitt, in the heat of anger (and perhaps, momentary insanity) sliced
off her husband’s male organ and disposed of it in the neighborhood. I was more amazed to learn that, after
many hours of surgery, doctors were successfully able to reconnect his prized object that made him a man.

As typical Americans, we enjoy being entertained and learning about amazing stories of fellow human beings. But don’t you think
that this sort of story should be covered as a top headline in a low-caliber gossip magazine or television show,
rather than as the lead story on many of the prestigious news broadcasts? Though the story has some appeal, the
Bobbitt trial is not real news. Thousands of assault trials are tried in the American courtrooms daily, yet we only
hear of a few of the most scandalous and sensational battles. The simple reason that we have been bombarded with
continuous news coverage is because Lorena Bobbitt did something novel and unheard of in our modern era. She did something
that any normal man would regard as his worst nightmare or fear — she castrated her husband and momentarily stole
away his manhood.

I just read in Time magazine (Jan. 24) that Lorena accused her husband of abusing her and forcing her to
have repeated anal sex. I personally feel that it should not be any of our concern or our business what
sexual acts were performed in the Bobbitts' bedroom. Do not misunderstand me. I am not advocating censorship when a story
or article is important or worthy of news coverage, but what we have heard the last few days is not
news, but rather a “Hollywoodized” story to boost ratings and appeal to our lower and base senses. Thus, I am
not advocating that the Bobbitt trial should have been ignored by the media, but rather the journalism and news industry
should have enough respect for their audiences to inform them of real news instead of regarding the “Penis Trial” as
their top story.
