THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1994 - 11

Photo courtesy of theater department
Donna Peters

Donna Peters returns to give one-woman show
By James Berry

It’s always inspiring to hear of a Davidson graduate’s success, if only because it indirectly means that those of us
still here have some chances ourselves. In the case of Donna Peters, we have more than enough reason to be
encouraged. On September 22 at 8 p.m., Peters will return to campus to perform a work of her own, entitled
The Hoffman Hotel. The event will take place in Hodson Hall of the Cunningham Fine Arts building. Tickets are $2
for the general public and free for Davidson ID holders.

The play is based on a blend of personal experience and her parents’ stories surrounding an Alabama gathering place, which
gives the piece its name. Peters takes on all the roles of her characters in the one-hour performance. According to
Peters, all the characters are real people, with no names changed from reality to script. Joe Gardner, chairman of the
theater and speech departments, says, “The play is a loving and comic look at the characters we find in small
towns everywhere.”

Peters graduated from Davidson in 1989 with a degree in English. She then went on to the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill and became the first Davidson graduate to earn a Master of Fine Arts in acting from
that school. Since leaving Davidson, she has founded the Indian Spring Summer Stock Theater in Birmingham, Alabama, which has been
operating since 1989. She has also instructed some classes at Chapel Hill, appeared in

Watson Fellowship offers money for adventure and travel
By Jennifer Kerns

Every year, Davidson picks four students to compete in the Watson Foundation Fellowship competition. The Watson Fellowship program, founded in
1968, provides selected students with $15,000 in study abroad money for a year-long project. Davidson was one of the founding
25 schools to participate. Sara Carlson, Davidson’s Watson representative, states that 52 schools now compete in the national competition. The
Fellowship is open to anyone who graduated from one of the participating colleges, with no citizenship requirements. There is no
GPA cut-off, either. “You don’t need to be on the Honor Roll—only motivated.”

The projects usually fall under four general categories: women’s studies, development, biology, and business and finance. Carlson emphasizes that there
is no pressure to choose a particular field of study. She researched native ponies of the North Atlantic Islands, discussing
how similar breeds will diverge into different breeds. After several months, she branched out, looking at the “human interrelationship with
livestock.” Last year’s recipient, David Tweety, studied "the origins of Appalachian fiddle music in the Shetland Islands.”

What advice does Carlson give to candidates? “The most important advice I can give is to pick a project that
suits you. You must live with your project for one year, and it could be miserable if you don’t love
what you do.” Dr. Ortmayer of the Davidson Watson committee emphasizes theContinued success of Davidson students in the national competition.
On average, two of four representatives are chosen. When asked what the committee wants, he says, “We are looking for
interesting people, with interesting projects, who are compelled to do those things.”

Senior Anni Kirkland featured in Glamour
By Ashlyn Dannelly

People flipping through the pages of Glamour magazine’s October issue may be surprised to see a Davidson face tucked away
in the back pages. Senior Anni Kirkland received an Honorable Mention in Glamour’s “Top Ten College Women” essay contest. Ten
women received $1,000 scholarships and a chance to travel to Washington D.C. and interview a woman of their choice. Kirkland
was one of five women receiving Honorable Mention.

Kirkland says, "The real reason I entered the contest was to get the chance to interview someone really fascinating, like
Ruth Bader Ginsburg.” While she did not receive money or an interview opportunity, Kirkland’s photo and descriptive information appear in
the publication. The contest focused on women’s academic achievements and leadership. Kirkland entered the contest after Assistant Dean of Students
Leslie Marsicano presented the idea to her. Kirkland says, "I don’t even subscribe to any magazines like Glamour, but I
was impressed that they were doing something to highlight the real achievements of women... at first, I thought, ‘Glamour magazine,
no way.’ But then I was glad they were showing real role models, not women who are 100 pounds and
five feet ten.”

Kirkland says she included her thoughts about magazines’ damaging portrayals of women in her essay: “Maybe that’s why they picked
me.” Although disappointed she did not win, she is "surprised that I got that far. The women that won are
really impressive.”

Coming soon...
National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week — October 2-6, 1994
You can sponsor an activity or event. Want to participate? Call Art Flagg, Student Counseling Center, 892-2451.

Social - Semi Formal - Formal
A Dip o Feet
892-5575
Magnolia Plaza — Hwy 73- Across from Peninsula Club
* 10% off with Davidson Coll. ID

Classifieds
Several plays including Prelude to a Kiss and Tartuffe, and will be seen in an upcoming film from George Lucas
entitled Radioland Murders due to be released in October. Peters has performed Hoffman Hotel in New York, Atlanta, Birmingham, and
various locations within North Carolina and will be part of a regional emphasis on women artists here at Davidson.

50% Off Paperbacks
All Hardbacks Reduced
NOW OPEN SUNDAYS
I-77 Exit 25 at Sam Furr Road at Northcross (Next to Food Lion)
892-1030

SPRING BREAK '95: SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!!!
Student Travel Services is now hiring campus representatives. Lowest rates to Jamaica, Cancun, Daytona, and Panama City Beach. Call 1-800-648-4849

WANT TO EARN SOME FAST CASH WHILE DEVELOPING YOUR CONVERSATION SKILLS?
The Regional Campaigns Office needs students to participate in 2 evening sessions of our first student phonathon. Good money and
little time commitment. Need to be available 6:30 - 9:30 pm on October 2 and 3. Call Allison Wright at
x2464.
