Che Havidsontan

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXVI MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1994 NUMBER 3

Outdoor basketball court proposal fails in SGA
Tie vote kills resolution Tuesday, but Rudell will continue to pursue the cause

By Jay Jennings

During an animated SGA meeting on Tuesday, the Student Government Association rejected the resolution for new outdoor basketball courts proposed
last week. The new basketball courts would have replaced 20 to 25 parking spaces in the tennis court parking lot,
but would have provided an adequate outdoor athletic outlet for students. SGA President Eric Rosenbach says, “parking and the alcohol
policy are two issues which spark controversy.”

The vote ended in a tie; a majority vote is necessary for a resolution to be passed. Senior Class President
B.J. Rudell plans to bring the resolution up again in two weeks, hoping that it will pass this time.

By Katherine Davis

Thanks to the efforts of the Student Government Association, the Patterson Court Council, and the Student Union, the entire Davidson
College student body was able to spend Saturday hanging out at the Lake Campus, eating great food, and listening to
the music of the Steel Drum Band. Other musical performances included the Liquid Pleasure concert on Saturday night and Davidson's
own jazz band, which played Friday evening.

Students also got the opportunity to meet with professors in a social setting at the jazz mixer outside Chambers on
Friday and at the 50’s dance in the Commons on Saturday. The planning of the Fall Festival began last year
when students—like SGA Vice-President Allison Sabel—began proposing ideas for social alternatives for freshmen before they were allowed on Patterson Court.
“We wanted to initiate a campus-wide event that would be a non-alcoholic way for everyone to meet more people and
have fun,” she says.

Vail Commons was responsible for catering the jazz mixer as well as the 50’s dance. Subway and the SGA provided
a delicious lunch of hot dogs, hamburgers, veggie subs, chips, cookies, and drinks for students who spent their Saturday at
the Lake Campus. The weekend definitely seemed to be a success and boasted terrific attendance at all of the events.

On Saturday morning, freshman halls worked together to race their homemade rafts in the freshman regatta, which concluded in a
victory by 1st West in their kegmobile. Fall Festival also combined a campus-wide social event with a fundraiser for Davidson
Day Care. The 50’s dance in the Commons on Saturday night raised proceeds which totaled over $3500, all of which
will be donated to Davidson Day Care. This provided a way for Davidson students to help out those less fortunate
than themselves.

The removable basketball court surface would not cost the college any money during the first year of use, but would
cost $5000 each additional year. Rudell says, “The cost of the court is only a fraction of the total sports
budget and would not hinder other athletic programs.” The existing outdoor courts were built for use by summer camps, not
for Davidson College students. Kamil Shah, an avid basketball player, says, “The present courts are too slippery, have too many
obstacles, and have bent rims. We need new courts.”

Jo Burrows, the Connor SGA representative, says that “there is not enough interest on campus for a basketball court,” and
thus felt obligated to reject the resolution. David Wick, Sophomore Class Senator, says, “I look forward to having new basketball
courts, but I do not think that the proposed area is the best suggestion.” The basketball court issue has not
died, and if strong feelings exist, students need to share their feelings with their SGA representative before Tuesday’s meeting.

With sunny skies and cool weather, Day at the Lake was a fun time for all.
Photo by Brooke McRaethemselves while still having fun. When asked about the success of the first Fall Festival, Sabel said,
“I am so excited that both the faculty and the students cared to come to something like the mixer. This
is the first time we have done something like this, and it probably won’t be the last.” Special appreciation goes
out to all the hard work and careful planning done by those who made Fall Festival a reality: Union Committee
Chair Rosie Molinary, Patterson Court Chair Josh Worsham, and SGA officers Sarah Beth Hamlin, Jennifer Palazzalo, and Allison Sabel.

New apartment building still working out quirks

“We needed three weeks to do what we had only one week to do.”
By Jennifer Kerns

The construction on the newest senior apartment building, Martin Court F, is complete, but the building’s maintenance problems are just
beginning. On September 1, Rebecca Peters and her roommates woke up to find their kitchen flooded with water. “The air
conditioner had clogged upstairs, and water cascaded down the wall and out of the refrigerator. The next day, RLO responded
quickly, sending Physical Plant workers to take out the wall and replace it with dry wall. How do these women
feel about Martin Court’s newest apartments? Peters says, “Some things were not done as well as they should have been.”
She contends that the problems are only “little things”: room doors are not flush, making them hard to close and
lock; apartment doors are not opening, causing residents to use their windows; the fire alarms are “always going off”; there
is no cable, though residents already paid for the service.

Faulty door handles

Susan Pfahl, the staff architect for the Physical Plant, acknowledges these incidents as problems. She says that the dilemma with
the outside and inside doors remains unresolved. The door latches are hard to open because they must comply with the
ADA regulations for handicap access. Pfahl says some residents are compounding the issue.

See Quirks continued on page 3

Library closes smoking lounge
By Courtauld McBryde

The message, “Watch this space! This room is being converted into a modern classroom for Bibliographic Instruction. If you’re looking
for a place to smoke, try the 24-Hour Study Room,” covers the windows of the third floor smoking lounge. The
E. H. Little Library staff decided during the summer to close the smoking room in order to provide the library
with a classroom for teaching library skills to Davidson students. Library Director Dr. Leland Park says the smoking lounge stands
as the only room in the library that can electronically handle lighting control and projection facilities. Last year the library
staff held information sessions for over 1000 students. The staff complained about the lack of a central place to conduct
teaching sessions. “The smoking lounge was a small room that was never used heavily,” says Park. Park explains that students
who smoke should go to the 24-Hour room in the basement of the library. “The 24-Hour Room, group study rooms,
and the smoking lounge have always been open for smoking,” says Park. The 24-Hour Room was originally designed as a
dual-purpose room for smoking and studying. “I sympathize with smokers,” says Park; however, this is a sensitive situation with strong
arguments on both sides. “I must look after everybody’s opportunities and rights,” says Park.

See Smoke continued on page 5

Health Center
Senior surveys initiate a meeting with Dean Shandley to propose measures that will improve health care at Davidson.
NEWS 5

A Visionary
Long-time Davidson student Chris Frampton shares his revelations on the future of Davidson.
OPINIONS 9

Home Again
Jennifer Tracy returns from Ghana.
ARTS

Soccer...
The Davidson men's team will face UCLA Wednesday in the nationally-televised "Game of the Week."
13 SPORTS
