_ THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING NOVEMBER 28, 1994 _

Dave Matthews no longer Under the Table and Dreaming

By Jon Sands

Finally getting a chance to show their stuff on a national level, the Dave Matthews Band released *Under The Table
and Dreaming*. This album is the debut release on their new recording contract with R.C.A. The first of many to
come, it is packed with some of their best songs off of *Remember Two Things* and a host of other
new tracks. They chose veteran producer Steven Lillywhite, who has worked with other successful bands such as U2, Peter Gabriel,
and Talking Heads.

*Under The Table and Dreaming*, a line taken from the song “Ants Marching,” is a long way from their bootlegs
and last fall’s independent release. The Dave Matthews Band has put their best foot forward and emphasized clarity and perfection
from song to song. Their last album has a number of live songs which skillfully captured the band at their
top form, but they lacked the funds to produce an album which shares the same quality as *Under the Table
and Dreaming*. This album has brought out the qualities of Dave’s songwriting and the band’s eclectic sound to their fullest
potential. With guest appearances by Blues Traveler’s John Popper and his dancing harmonica on “What Would You Say,” additional energy
has been added to this already-great track.

Songs of note would have to be “Best of What’s Around,” “Jimi Thing,” and “#34.” Each song has its own
tempo and mood, surrounded by Dave’s distinctive voice and the combination of an alternative guitar, violin, saxophone, electric bass, and
drums. It is hard to find two songs that sound too much alike.

The band recently launched their national tour and stopped by Wait Chapel in Wake Forest to thoroughly entertain the sold-out
crowd. As *Under the Table and Dreaming* gets more national coverage, the band will be harder to see in the
small clubs and amphitheaters that they used to frequent. Because they are musicians and not entertainers, I think that it
would be a shame to go see Dave Matthews in a large arena like the Charlotte Coliseum. I would like
to think that people love the band for their music and not their pathetic light show.

I have heard through the grapevine that “So Much to Say” is going to be made into music video format
as well as released to major radio stations around the country. If you want to know everything and anything about
the band, you should hop on the internet and subscribe to “Minaret Net.” They will tell you about the picture
that is placed behind the disc in the CD package. Matthews’ little sister was murdered, and he dedicates the album
to her. I have to highly recommend this album to one and all at Davidson and hope that you enjoy
it as much as I have.

Davidson Outdoors offers refreshing alternative

D.O. continued from page 10

women’s backpacking trip to the gulley rafting trip over fall break. Currently, 34 students are taking part in Davidson Outdoors’
wilderness training course. These students attend a two-hour class once a week and recently have been going through wilderness skills
workshops taught by other trip leaders. Students who feel they have limited free time should take a study break and
head to the climbing wall, open Sunday from 2 to 5 and Monday through Thursday 7-9, or kayak rolling in
Baker Sports Complex, open Thursday 7-9. These facilities will remain open through the week of December 9.

For those who feel they cannot leave Davidson for an entire weekend, there are two day trips on December 3:
a bouldering trip and mountain biking at South Mountain State Park. Davidson Outdoors trips give you a chance to meet
people you might never know and discover your own strengths in challenging but fun situations.You are having trouble falling asleep,
you should put “#34” on repeat and fade off into sweet oblivion. Art historian Albert Boime lectured on November 16
on Eugène Delacroix’s Liberty Leading the People.

Photo by Brooke McRae

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Ostentatious display
5 Whirl
9 Courage
13 Always
14 Borders
16 Ore deposit
17 Facility
18 Surveillance
19 Tournament type
20 Synthetic materials
22 Cheerful
24 Orient
25 Whitewall, e.g.
26 Waltz, e.g.
28 Alcoves
36 Stories
37 Created
38 Frost
39 Soft flat cap
40 Gaited horse
43 Liquid measure
44 Terminates
45 Color covers
46 Sense of taste
49 Difference
53 Employs
54 Chair rung
56 Reflected sound
57 Fishing cord
58 Binge
59 Atmospheric hazard
60 Girl
61 Sea gull
62 Stitches

DOWN
1 Sound from a nest
2 Elliptical
3 Tableland
4 Plea: bearing manuscripts
6 Public decree
7 Incites to action
8 Hawaiian garland
10 Large cord
11 Notion
12 Canvas shelter
15 Artificial channels
21 Short nail
23 Victim
25 Doctrine
26 Constellation
27 Boring tool
28 Parts for actors
29 Area
30 Downy sea duck
31 Prophet
32 Journey
33 Selling
34 Hood
39 Talent
40 Pub measure
42 Tantalizes
43 Shade tree
46 Influence
47 Continent
48 Optical glass solution
49 Heal
50 Highest point
51 Display
52 Clothing
55 Make a choice

Boime on Delacroix
By Matt Melton

On Wednesday night, the well-published and critically-acclaimed art historian Albert Boime lectured on Eugène Delacroix’s Liberty Leading the People (1830),
a history painting in the Louvre. Boime made this famous painting come alive with his vast historical insight into the
French Revolution and his lively interpretations of the painting’s subject matter. As Art Department Chair Larry Ligo says, “We will
never look at this painting the same” due to Boime’s critical probing of its social, political, and psycho-sexual iconography.

Boime began his lecture recounting the social situation of France during the 1830s, when the French Revolution erupted. Traditionally known
as a social historian, Boime focused on the way that the artwork reflected the ideologies of its time and place.
He emphasized Delacroix’s fascination with the energy of the lower class, describing this as a Romantic notion of “the domestic
other.” He then addressed the sources for Delacroix’s allegory of Liberty, a half-nude woman holding the tri-colored flag of modern
France. She symbolically leads the French lower-class revolutionaries (laborers and a young street urchin) through a barricade of French imperial
corruption. But Boime focused on Liberty as a bold leader depicted with a harsh, unidealized naturalism, far from the passive,
sensuous, female stereotypes of academic artistic tradition in France at this time. Thus Boime elevated Delacroix’s heroic female allegory as
a firm, working-class woman, a challenge to the traditional male power structure of French artistic tradition.

Boime also discussed Liberty as the subconscious maternal figure of Delacroix himself. Through various images and primary accounts, Boime offered
valid support for what seemed to be far-fetched social inquiries. Boime’s critical eye and vast historical research unveiled unforeseen realities
in this Romantic masterpiece. His attention to the details offered new vision into the mind of Delacroix and his revolutionary
ways of seeing.

Nails By Lisa
Located Inside Hair World
Full Set (acrylics, gels) $40.00
Fill In (1 broken nail w/fill in) $15.00
Broken Nail (each) $4.00
Buff & Polish $4.00
Manicures $12.00
Pedicures $20.00
10% OFF WITH COLLEGE I.D.
892-1332 / 664-5732
