SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1994: Basketball wins 11th in last 12 — By Matt Pitzer

Before this season started, some men’s basketball players talked about how special this year could be. With seniors Janko Narat
and Jason Zimmerman and a strong sophomore class, the possibilities seemed endless. Now, after winning 10 of their last 11,
including Saturday’s 87-68 win over Marshall, the Wildcats’ record stands at 19-6 and 12-5 in the Southern Conference, and all
that preseason hype is close to reality.

“Right now we’re riding a wave,” Brandon Williams said, “and whether it breaks in the first game at Asheville (site
of the league tournament) or four games after Asheville, we’re going to ride that wave until it breaks.”

With tonight’s VMI game, the last game left in the regular season, the Wildcats have a good chance at reaching
that magical 20-win level that is sometimes used as a benchmark for receiving a postseason tournament bid. Of course, no
players or coaches want to talk about qualifying for the NCAA or NIT competition for the first time since a
1986 NCAA bid. Instead, the talk is of VMI and this weekend’s tournament.

“We’ve got to win all our games to reach the NCAAs,” coach Bob McKillop said. “We know that is a
fact. If we win the conference tournament, then we are in the NCAAs.”

Said Williams: “We’ve got to focus on VMI. If you get looking too far ahead, you tend to lose your
focus.” He said the team did just that during a midseason slump that saw Davidson drop three of four, including
its only home loss of the season. But Williams also said that he did not hesitate to dream. “We’ve all
got dreams,” he said. “But I’ve got two more years to realize those dreams. All the seniors don’t have any
more time and their dream is to make the tournament. I’m going to play every game as hard as I
can to help them reach that dream.”

In Saturday’s game, after a sizzling outburst by Marshall’s Shawn Moore (14 of the team’s first 18 points), the game
took on the feel of a taking-care-of-business game as Davidson came back to take a 16-point lead. But the Thundering
Herd (9-16, 7-10) closed out the first period with an 11-2 run to close to 48-41. Marshall kept stampeding in
the second half, cutting the lead to three with 11 minutes left. “We took some quick shots, turned the ball
over a few times, and they converted,” forward Quinn Harwood said. “We just didn’t do the things that got us
up by 16 points.”

But the Wildcats righted themselves and after running off seven straight points to push the lead to 66-56, they finished
the game on a 19-4 run for the final margin. Harwood played a crucial second-half role, scoring 12 points, after
scoring just two in the first. “I had missed a couple open shots earlier,” he said, “but the shots were
there all along. I just picked up my game in the second half.”

Williams led the team with 20 points, including several thunderous dunks that brought the crowd of 3114 to its feet.
At times, he seemed able to score at will over Marshall defenders. “We knew that we could control the offensive
and defensive boards,” he said. “I saw that some of those guys were falling asleep on defense on me, Janko,
and the other guys. And I just got into a zone where I felt great and I just kept attacking
the rim.”

Following tonight’s game is the nerve-wracking conference tournament, then the long wait to see what is next for this team
that went a combined 4-1 against Metro and ACC teams. “We have the potential to be a great team,” Harwood
said. “We still haven’t played our best game yet. We haven’t yet put together 40 minutes where we played really
well and really hard the whole time.”

Photo by Mike Wang
Freshman Mark Donnelly plays against East Tennessee State last Monday.

What is the future for men's hoops after VMI and So-Con? By Pete Amidon

Beginning this Friday afternoon, Davidson will fight nine other basketball teams for the Southern Conference tournament championship. Depending on the
outcomes of our game against VMI tonight and the UTC/Georgia Southern matchup, the Wildcats could enter the tournament seeded either
first or second. If the Wildcats (12-5, 19-6) defeat VMI (2-15, 4-21) and UTC loses to Georgia Southern, the Wildcats
will be the top seed. If the Wildcats win and UTC wins, UTC will earn the top seed. Regardless, a
win over VMI tonight is critical not only for a top seed but also for building momentum entering the tournament.
Winning three straight games and eleven out of twelve, Davidson College should be the team to beat.

Of the ten teams in the Southern Conference, only three other teams deserve any kind of serious attention. UTC is
the perennial power who ended our season last year 72-68 in the tournament semifinals. This team is led by the
dead-eye shooting of Chad Copeland. They are currently in first place in the conference, and we split against them this
year. The ETSU Buccaneers are extremely athletic and are led by Trazel Silvers. They are flashy and lead the league
in scoring, but we defeated them twice this year. Appalachian State has been a thorn in our side this year,
defeating us twice. Georgia Southern and Western Carolina are two quality teams, but both are streaky. Although we swept them
both, this doesn’t mean that they are pushovers. Frankie King is explosive for WCU while Warren Johnson leads a balanced
Eagle offense for Georgia Southern.

In terms of post-season chances, the Wildcats' only hope of entering the NCAA Tournament rests on winning the Southern Conference
Tournament. The Southern Conference is not a strong enough league to warrant twobids to the NCAA Tournament. Davidson is currently
ranked 86th in the RPI rankings. These rankings are considered the bible for the NCAA selection committee, and last year,
the committee didn’t select a team ranked lower than 60th. The other post-season tournament is the NIT. The NIT selects
the top 32 teams which did not get invitations to the NCAA Tournament. With a possible twenty wins and relatively
high ranking in the RPI, the Wildcats certainly deserve a bid to the NIT; however, we are not a lock
for this tournament. Rarely has a SoCon team been invited to the NIT. The last time was in 1991 when
Furman went. In addition, the lack of Davidson crowd support, especially on the road, is a concern for the NIT.
If Davidson were given a bid, the NIT would gamble that people would come out to support the Wildcats in
places like Clemson or Old Dominion. 3,114 fans came out to the Marshall game. With this increased show of support,
the influences of Terry Holland and Coach McKillop, and a possible twenty-win season, the Wildcats deserve a shot at the
NIT if we fail to make the NCAAs. Go out and support the Wildcats as they make their run towards
a post-season tournament. If you don’t have tickets for this weekend's tournament, drive to Asheville and buy some there. The
tournament is a great time with an exciting atmosphere. Slam down your books and close the library. Teachers, cancel your
classes, tests, and papers. The Davidson community must somehow travel to Asheville to support Wildcat basketball this upcoming weekend.

Davidson v. Duke. What if?
Continued from last week
By Jason Byassee

The Cats’ nerves and the Devils’ experience show as Duke races out to a big lead. The Blue Devils take
a 44-32 halftime lead. Janko Narat produced the way a leader should with 16 points to keep the Cats close.
The several hundred Davidson fans in attendance can’t help but wonder whether this game is over. Students who have cut
their spring breaks short wonder whether they should have stayed at the beach. The second half begins. Duke has switched
Grant Hill onto Narat, leaving Brandon Williams free, and he responds, scoring six straight points. Chris Alpert has found his
range too, dropping a pair of 3-pointers. Davidson’s players simply don’t look nervous anymore as they erase the deficit. After
Davidson’s second-half run pulls them within a bucket of tying the game, Duke goes inside. Tony Lang and Parks respond,
drawing a fourth foul on Spain. The momentum shifts. Both teams are playing their hearts out. There are four minutes
remaining. It’s 75-70 Blue Devils, and Davidson looks tired. Duke starts to milk the clock, looking to get fouled. Davidson
won’t foul and the game stays close. With the score at 79-75, Alpert steals a pass and is fouled. He
makes both free throws to pull the Cats within two, and timeout is called with forty seconds left. This one
is a classic; the little guy making a run at knocking off one of America’s sports giants. The ball is
inbounded to Grant Hill. The seconds tick away as Davidson’s Williams watches the big forward in expectation of stopping his
every move. Finally, Hill fakes left and cuts right, pulling up to shoot. The ball careens off the rim into
Narat’s hands with ten seconds to go. Alpert picks up Narat’s pass and flies downcourt, sensing the 79-77 deficit and
looking for somebody to tie the game for Davidson. Alpert spots Quinn Harwood in the deep corner and finds him
with a perfect pass. The sophomore big man senses time running down, and prepares to shoot. Grant Hill makes a
leap at him as Harwood lets the ball fly from behind the three-point arc and... Swish. Back to the present.
Davidson may not be in the NCAA tournament yet, but with a 19-6 record and second place in the Southern
Conference, they have an excellent shot. And remember: it could happen, so you better watch.

By Tracy French

The women’s basketball team suffered a 78-59 loss to the Appalachian State Mountaineers on Wednesday night in their last home
game of the season. The Cats had a great first half and went to the locker room after cutting the
Mountaineers’ lead to only five points. Davidson started the second half cold, however, and ASU quickly stretched their lead to
13 points before Carolyn Kirsch got the first two points of the half. “We went ice cold in the second
half," said Coach Filar. “We couldn’t buy a basket. When we let a team run up 12 or 14 points,
we start pressing. We tried to get in a running game with them, but we had tired legs. We hit
a lot of rim but no net.” Carolyn Kirsch ended the night as the Cats’ highest scorer. She had 20
points and 5 rebounds. On Thursday, tragedy struck the Cats again in practice when leading scorer Erin Butcher went down
with a knee injury and may be out for the remainder of the season. On Saturday, Davidson traveled to Johnson
City, TN, and fell to ETSU 87-73. Kirsch led the team once more with 18 points, while Tonya Sharpe and
Amy Scalcucci each had 15. The team’s record now stands at 5-19 with one game remaining. To end the regular
season, the Wildcats will play at Marshall on Monday night. On a high note for the Wildcats, Tonya Sharpe was
named the Southern Conference/USAir Women’s Basketball Player-of-the-Week last week. Tonya scored 34 points in last week’s games against Georgia Southern
and UT-Chattanooga. She also hit 6 of 13 three-pointers in those two games. “This has been a long time coming,”
said Coach Filar. “We have been nominating players all season, and it is a great honor to have Tonya be
the first.”
