16

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1994

Sailing takes 5th in National Regatta

By Andrew Cole
This weekend the sailing team competed in the Charleston Fall Open Regatta. Despite a stiff current, the team managed to climb to second place. Early in the day it looked as if College of Charleston would take the competition followed by The Citadel, but with consistently high finishes at the end of the race, Davidson was able to pull into second place. Competing in the regatta for Davidson were seniors Dave Saudek and Lara Onkey, junior Andrew Cole, sophomore Graham Ernst, and freshmen Steinen Gerla and Thu Thieu.

Last weekend, David Saudek, Andrew Cole, Brice Ivy, and Thu Thieu went to the Notre Dame Invitational. This was the first national intersectional regatta the team has competed in since its emergence last spring. Davidson moved up from seventh to a fifth place finish among 14 other schools. Wisconsin finished in first place followed by Marquette and Kings Point.

Next weekend is the first race in the North Points Series which determines the rankings for the North half of SAISA and goes to the district championships at Eckerd College in November. The first North Points race is at Clemson next weekend, followed by the second race in the series here at Davidson on October 1. So far this season, every team which has finished ahead of Davidson in a regatta was ranked in the top 25 nationally last year. Come see the growing regatta program here on October 1 at the lake campus.

Rugby wins one, loses one v. UNCC

By Warren Buford

After two weeks of practice, the rugby team took to the field for their first games of the season Saturday. Traveling to UNCC, Davidson split two games against the 49ers, losing the first 12-6 and then winning the second 17-7.

Co-captain Simon Priestly said, “our team went out and played great rugby. Although many of the players were new, and slightly inexperienced, we still made a great showing for Davidson.” Priestly scored 13 points on the day for the Wildcats.

Joining Priestly in playing well was co-captain Tom Shelburne, who made some excellent and clutch tackles. Dave Derrick, Rob Vogelbacher, and Sean Harvey also played well. Freshmen who played well include: Barrot Ross, Hank Ackerman, Pete Schulze, Ben Wall, Westley Hart among others.

“The games on Saturday should be a good indication that Davidson will have a dynamite rugby season,” said rugby president Mike Kessler. Make sure to come and support the “ruck-n-rollin” rugby team when they tackle Chapel Hill Saturday for Homecoming.

DONUTS

747 S. Broad St.
Mooresville
Next to Wilson Auto Parts
662-6122

HOURS: M-Sat: 6:00 am-8:00 pm

SANDWICHES & BISCUITS

Welcome Back Davidson Alums!

50¢ OFF Any Assorted Sandwich

60¢ OFF Any Assorted Dozen

Expires 9-30-94

Express Shoppe 601 Griffith Street Davidson, NC 892-9828

Photo courtesy of sailing team

Davidson sailing team enjoys national exposure.

Call Us! 896-8007

Shops on the Green - Cornelius
HOURS: 4pm-11pm Sun-Thurs; 4pm-12 midnight Fri-Sat

Valid at participating stores only. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Cash value 1/20¢. ©1994 Domino’s Pizza Inc.

NOW HIRING

DRIVERS

EARN $9.00 - $12.00 per hour - flexible hours

INSIDE POSITIONS AVAILABLE

very flexible hours competitive pay