THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1994

Waddill endows William Terry scholarship with $600,000

By Brad Griffin

Philosopher, teacher, counselor, and friend. These are the words David H. Waddill ’81 uses to describe Will Terry, Davidson’s Dean of Students for over 20 years. To show his admiration for Terry, who retires in June, Waddill has given a generous gift of $600,000 to activate the William Holt Terry Scholarship beginning the fall semester of the 1994-95 school year.

Because of the size of Waddill’s gift, the short-term goal was expanded to $1 million to be raised by April 19 when Terry Scholarship General Chairman Tim Goodell ’79 will present the scholarship to the college at a dinner honoring Dean Terry. The scholarship was established by alumni, friends, and faculty who share admiration for the life and work of Terry, an alumnus and longtime servant of the college. It will be awarded annually to students who have demonstrated exemplary leadership skills and personal qualities through student government, athletics, service, and other activities.

Thanks to the gift from Waddill, two entering freshmen will each receive a $15,000 stipend per year for four years, thus promising eight Terry Scholars on the Davidson campus by the fall of 1997. Waddill’s gift will fund the Terry Scholarship at this level through the year 2001. By providing an expendable gift of this magnitude, Waddill has emphasized his desire to initiate the scholarship at a level which would appropriately honor Terry and his service to the college.

Further, he hopes that his support will “enhance Davidson’s ability to attract top students and bring together a group of young people who will one day significantly impact society as a whole.” Waddill believes Terry’s personal commitment to the recipients will set this scholarship apart from others at Davidson. “Leaders,” he explains, “are made, not born. Through Terry’s involvement, this scholarship will play a significant role in the leadership development process... Over the years, Will has given perspective to the Davidson experience for many students and has helped instill and nurture a trait vital to effective leadership: confidence. By nature, he’ll want to act as a coach and a mentor to these recipients. You don’t get that kind of guidance with other scholarships, not even with something as prestigious as the Morehead Scholarship at UNC Chapel Hill.”

Waddill hopes that his gift will serve as a challenge and a catalyst to Terry’s friends and admirers to raise the funds necessary to continue the scholarship at a significant level in perpetuity. “I know there are others who feel the same way I do about Will Terry, and their generous contributions will guarantee that this award will be ongoing,” he said. “My dream would be that we could move the Terry Scholarship...

No guarantees for needy students

Aid continued from page 1

Aid will most obviously threaten the college’s ability to attract the most talented students and to preserve the current social and economic mix among the student body. This threat will further affect the makeup of the student population as the gap between the aggregate need and the funds available increases into the 21st century. The Financial Aid Planning Team explains in their report: “The stronger the credentials of the student, the more likely that Davidson may lose the candidate to a public institution or an independent college offering a better financial aid package.”

With that in mind, the team devised various strategies for the upcoming years to continue to present Davidson in a favorable position among other leading schools in the nation. They propose to augment need-based aid for qualified students, to enhance merit scholarships, to review the need and to adopt practices for analyzing and packaging aid to stretch the available funds the furthest.

In most recent years, according to Peck, financial aid packages have combined loans, scholarships, athletic grants, federal and state monies, and work-study jobs. However, these packages were designed to lessen the burden of loans after graduation. With the new gap, packages will necessitate second loans. Realizing that the cap only limits that portion from the annual budget, the Financial Aid Planning Team foresees that money raised by those in the Development Office through endowments and other interest gifts will help the situation.

According to Dean Jones, Director of Major Gifts, there has been “a concentrated effort to raise scholarship money” for the present as well as into the “unlimited future.” Although Peck expresses the concerns of this “complex issue,” he remarks that Davidson is “still in a favorable position” as compared to other schools who earlier abandoned the promise of 100% financial aid of demonstrated need. Says Peck, “We’re approaching this in a thoughtful and prudent way.”and phone numbers 1-900 continued from page 1

The second faculty member also had the number stolen from her office. Ten calls were charged to her First Union Master Card on January 11, 12, and 14. The calls, totaling $776.70, were made from various phones in Martin. While the victims’ bills showed that the calls were made to a 900 number, the perpetrator actually dialed an 800 number and then, after disclosing each credit card number and expiration date, was transferred to a 900 line. Two different numbers were dialed, both of which are adult entertainment companies located in California. The two companies, Voice Access, and E.C.A., have promised to erase the charges.

According to one student victim, Visa has dropped the numbers from its account because they were too easily accessible to fraudulent callers. Three of the victims disclosed that, although the matter has yet to be fully cleared, they have been promised all bills will be erased from their accounts. The victims stated they would not pursue the matter further if their bills were cleared.

Recently, someone turned in two business cards advertising 900 numbers found in the basement of Chambers. Police initially thought there might be a connection to the credit card fraud, but the numbers advertised were different from those called by the thief. However, Moore says that the college doesn’t allow solicitation. If someone from outside the college were responsible for the business cards, the police would “have to take action.”

Referring to the credit card fraud, Moore says, “The matter is still under investigation. We do fully expect to bring the matter to a close.” When asked if the police have a suspect, he said, “I can say yes.” When pressed for further information about the suspect, Moore said, “I’m not at liberty to discuss that.” When asked what course of action the police will take if all charges are erased from the victims’ bills, Moore said, “If and when that happens, we’ll review the case and make our decision at that time.”

The Davidsonian
KATHERINE HASH - NEWS EDITOR
ASHLYN DANNELLY - ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR
CARRIE BLACKBURN - SPECIAL ASSIGNMENTS
Kent, Jeff Fuller Staff Writers
Court McBryde, Rachel Dunifon, Sally Stone, Brett Marston, Jay Jennings, Krisy Ford, Martha Knight, Wendy Lee, Mary Clare Jalonick, Christy Block, Lexy Devane, Ross Sloop, Towner Blackstock, Phoebe Dean, Beth Lindsay, deike Laura pious Jeff

to full-tuition status in the future. I realize that it’s a difficult time in the Campaign to ask people for more money, but this project is worth some extra effort—it’s something we can achieve,” continues Waddill.

Goodell says Waddill’s commitment to the Terry Scholarship is extraordinary. “What David has done is to place the Terry Scholarship, in its first year, among the most noteworthy awards at Davidson," he said. "His gift challenges all of us to increase our fund-raising efforts and to make meaningful, personal commitments to this scholarship.” Only these measures can ensure the scholarship continues at a significant level for a long time. He hopes that others influenced by Will Terry will honor him through gifts to the scholarship effort.

While at Davidson, Waddill served as vice president and president of the student body and was elected to Omicron Delta Kappa, Who’s Who, and Phi Beta Kappa. He was a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, played lacrosse, and was involved with Boy Scouts of America. Currently, Waddill works as an international financial trader with Moore Capital Management in New York City. He and his wife Irene have two sons, Harrison, 2, and John, 2 months.

“What Will was, and still is, was a source of comfort for students who were trying to figure out who they were, and he provided me and others with a perspective on academics, religion, politics, and social issues of the day,” Waddill said.

Individuals interested in making contributions to the William Holt Terry Scholarship should contact Director of Development Kevin R. McCarthy at 704/892-2107, or write to him at Post Office Box 1385, Davidson, North Carolina, 28036.

$1.50 Wine $1.00

DAVINO'S WEEKLY SPECIALS
Mon. Night: 8oz Steak Pizzola, Fries, & Soup or Salad $9.95. Domestic beer $1.00
Tues. Night: Kids 12 and Under Eat 1/2 Price from the Kid's Menu. Import Beer
Wed. Night: All You Can Eat Pizza $4.75. Pitcher Beer $3.50. Mug O' Beer $0.75
Thurs. Night: Jumbo Stuffed Shells, Soup or Salad, & Bread $7.75. Glass of Wine $1.00
Fri. Night: Chef's Choice

DAVINO'S Restaurant & Bar
892-4794
Sadler Square Shopping Center
Davidson, NC
Hours: M-Th 11:30-10:00
Fri. 11:30-10
Sat 4-10
Sunday Closed

If You Missed the Cooking at BACON AND EGGS
Come See the Old Gang at...
Chat & Chew
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, NC
664-4665
Open Monday-Sunday 5:00 am to 11:00 pm

WELCOME DAVIDSON COLLEGE!