THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS _ MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 1994 15

Flip Side

Concrete Blonde heads south, under a Mexican Moon

As a longtime Concrete Blonde fan, it used to bother me that their success drifted in the opposite direction of their genius. Their first two albums, Concrete Blonde (1986) and Free (1989), are arguably their best. The next two albums, Bloodletting (1990) and Walking in London (1991), don’t showcase Concrete Blonde’s distinctive sound quite as well—a menacing balance of punk, blues, and pop. Yet the later albums sold more, especially Bloodletting and its hit, “Joey.” I worried that Concrete Blonde would continue to gain fans with inferior albums. Fortunately, the trend ends with their new album, Mexican Moon. Ironically, it is their strongest in years despite band leader Johnette Napolitano’s increasing obsession with frightening macabre subjects.

In “Jonestown,” the album’s centerpiece, Napolitano pries into the mind of the infamous cult leader who led a mass suicide in 1978. The introduction, which features a chilling recording of Jim Jones rallying his flock, could give even a passive listener the willies. “Love is the only weapon with which I got to fight. I got a-hell of a lot of weapons to fight! I’ll fight! I'll fight! I will fight!” Jones screams almost unintelligibly, after which Napolitano interprets, “They’re looking for answers, they’re looking for more; just what are they looking up here to me for?” Though it’s not their strongest song, “Jonestown” at least gets your attention.

Another controversial song on the album is “Jesus Please Forgive Me (For the Things I’m About to Say).” After belting out the title gospel-style, Napolitano dives inside the mind of, using the most politically correct terms, an emotionally challenged individual. Over a slow, grinding groove, Napolitano snarls, “I killed you in my mind today. I cut you up and watched you bleed... Jesus please forgive me....” Like “Jonestown,” “Jesus” is definitely unfit for the faint-hearted.

Not all of the songs on Mexican Moon disturb and frighten as much as this pair of songs. “Heal it Up” and “Rain,” possibly the two best tracks on the album, are unsettling, but not inflammatory. “Heal it Up” is already familiar to many, as it has grabbed a deserved foothold on radio playlists. Over a powerful drum beat sit layers of distorted guitars and the best rock vocals since Pearl Jam’s “Jeremy.” Once again, Johnette Napolitano’s voice draws you in: “Deep in your eyes you’re one hundred years old, ‘cause the years have not been kind to you, you know.” Just when she has you mesmerized, her voice takes flight in the three-syllable chorus which comprises the song's title.

“Rain,” like one-third of the songs on the album, gets its point across without many loud, distorted guitars. Guitarist James Mankey is still busy on “Rain,” layering varied guitar tracks one on top of another. Above them all, as always, is Napolitano’s voice—raspy, passionate, almost cracking with emotion. “Thought I heard your footsteps, thought I heard you phone. Standing on the doorstep, listening alone—all I hear is rain.”

Though “Rain” and the rest of Mexican Moon tower above almost every album released in 1993, it is still not my favorite Concrete Blonde. I prefer Johnette Napolitano’s older, more introverted songs over her new lessons in abnormal psychology. Fortunately for all who have heard of them, Concrete Blonde is brilliant with five decent albums to choose from. You really cannot go wrong.

Screen Scene

Oscars on the way for Schindler's List

Well folks, as I promised last week I’m back with a review in hand of this year’s apparent Oscar behemoth, Schindler’s List. This past week, List tightened its hold on Mr./Ms. Oscar by picking up Golden Globes for Best Director, Best Picture, and Best Screenplay. Since the Golden Globes are seen as a forecaster for the Academy Awards, the chances are pretty good that Schindler’s List will not be walking away empty-handed on

Rachel rules ‘cause she still writes

Rachel continued from page 14

sible to say that Counting Crows takes off where REM and the Replacements left off in the late 1980s. In a nutshell, I can’t think of a current band or artist whose lyrics appeal to me personally like this band’s. Their music reflects some of the aimlessness and confusion of life, as well as some of the concerns of our generation. It’s very personal and never political, without the rage and violence apparent in so much of today’s music. August and Everything After is the kind of amazing record I’ve been waiting for—something that speaks to things I can relate to, something that I would recommend without qualification. Although I hope that this band is successful, at the same time, Counting Crows is a secret I’d guiltily like to keep to myself.

Art majors rejoice in Steinberg's presence

Leo continued from page 14

was unable to do. Steinberg later commented that this criticism of art is as humorous as saying, “Lindbergh crossed the Atlantic—Big deal, I’ve crossed the Atlantic plenty of times.” Junior Arul Baskaran believed that Steinbergemployed a “good technique to focus on one line” during the lecture on Picasso. Steinberg’s methodology in observing a painting doesn’t involve lengthy reading of what other critics have written on the subject but instead involves the direct questioning by the viewer of the artist’s intentions. Dr. Ligo expressed that Steinberg possesses the “ability to look at art for himself... to see it afresh” and take another viewer step by step through an observation of an artist’s work. In dealing with Picasso, Steinberg spent a good deal of time simply asking how one line functioned within the painting. In Steinberg’s feature lecture “The Outrageous Secrets of the Pieta,” he methodically analyzes the ways in which Michelangelo was able to “maintain the beauty and sweetness of his contemporaries while secretly breaking their most cherished rules.” McRee found that Steinberg “posed new questions to an old piece.” Furthermore, the scholar explored how Michelangelo could create a Christ figure that was disproportional to the Mary figure, yet could appear natural. Steinberg guided the audience through a lecture during which many were enabled to see the Pieta “afresh.” The issue of whether the Christ was dead or alive in the sculpture was raised, as he made observations not through the voice of other critics but by simply evaluating the work in and of itself. He asked if the Christ were dead why his veins were not flattened out or why his muscle tone was tense. Steinberg believed the relaxed slumber makes a statement about the mystery of the Christian faith. Finally, the speaker expressed the importance of the outrageously youthful appearance of the Mary figure. He believed her appearance serves as a “symbol of her perpetual virginity” yet the embrace is “sensualized—possibly charged with desire and may be seen as a love tragedy.” Those students who were able to hear Steinberg speak were rewarded by what Dr. Ligo later commented as “acute, revealing, and evocative” lectures. We are all thankful to have shared in this experience. According to Baskaran, Steinberg provided “incredibly articulate” lectures that were “not clouded by art history jargon” but instead were a lot more accessible than some critics tend to be. Indeed, Steinberg’s visit was a truly rewarding experience.

NEW, USED & RARE BOOKS
SELL & TRADE
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK
892-1030
Mon-Sat 10-9, Sun: noon-6

Oscar night. Thanks to the Globes and other awards, word of mouth, and the film’s limited release/high profile publicity campaign, it’s no wonder this one has been packing them in at the box office. List only just opened in North Carolina last week, debuting in Charlotte and Raleigh, and most of the weekend screenings at the Arboretum 10 (currently the only theater showing the film in the Queen City) have been sold out. Braving the crowds I made the long journey out to the Arboretum—I’ll go to any lengths for y’all because that’s just the type of guy I am. I’m happy to say that my efforts were well worth the trouble; Schindler’s List is a film that is definitely a must-see. For those of you who don’t already know, this picture is about German industrialist/war profiteer Oskar Schindler who saved nearly 1,100 Jews from destruction by employing them in his factory. Excellently portrayed by Liam Neeson (Darkman, Ethan Fromme) as a suave playboy type, smooth-talking Schindler woos Nazi officials, wins government contracts, and is allowed to keep his Jewish labor force all without flexing a muscle. That is until the new commandant (superbly acted by relative newcomer Ralph Fiennes) for the region arrives, a psychotic gun-toting alcoholic who gets his kicks by picking off his workers from the balcony of his hillside mansion with a high-powered rifle. As Schindler witnesses the brutality of this man, he realizes that his factory is more than just a money-making venture, it’s a haven for Jews fleeing the wrath of the Commandant and those like him. This causes an internal conflict within Schindler which resolves itself when he decides that he must do everything in his power to save his workers from certain doom.

The poignancy of these conflicts and the struggles of the Jewish workers is magnified by Spielberg’s choice of black and white as the medium for his film. In what was a genius move on his part, Spielberg uses the absence of color to create powerful moods as he expertly manipulates light and dark. It took me a while after I had seen the film to decide exactly how I felt about it. I was intensely disturbed by the extremely graphic violence in the movie; the idea that such shocking things had actually happened...

See List on page 16

NOW WITH TICKETMASTER SERVICES
Currently preselling tickets to:
* FISHBONE (2/17)
* VILLAGE PEOPLE (2/19)
* WIDESPREAD PANIC (2/24)
* RUSH (2/25)
* BILLY JOEL (2/29)
Planning 2/12/94 GRAND OPENING BASH
PHONE: 896-7882