RTS & LIVING MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1994

True talent: Moonlighting for the Names Quilt
By Matthew Eirich

The annual Faculty/Staff talent show, as suggested by Stewardship Coordinator Meg Kimmel, was “very much like a quilt.” There were serious performances and humorous acts; some played the piano, others the guitar or mandolin; some people sang or read poetry, and someone juggled... his children. This eclectic grouping of entertaining performances was held on Thursday evening in Love Auditorium to benefit the AIDS Memorial Quilt project.

To bring the Quilt to Davidson, the college applied to the AIDS Memorial Quilt project headquarters in San Francisco. The college also had to promise to raise at least $10,000 (with a goal of $15,000) for various AIDS-related organizations in the area and to conduct AIDS education on campus, according to Sherry Malushizky, Assistant Director for Programs.

The talent show was the brainchild of Rev. Brenda Tapia, head of the Love of Learning program and assistant chaplain. “The talent show allows the faculty and staff to work together and have fun,” Tapia said, adding that the show has always been a very “successful” fundraiser.

The show, with the theme “Panels of Reflection,” began with an introduction and a humorous story about his recent trip to China by Master of Ceremonies Ed Kania, the Controller. Dean of Faculty Robert Williams and his wife Ann sang three songs to the accompaniment of Williams’ guitar. Chaplain Rob Spach, Ruth Pittard, Catherine Turner, and Katherine Cooke recited selected poems of Wendell Barrett. Dr. John and Glenda Wertheimer took the stage to perform the Spanish love song “Germa,” which means “gem” in Spanish. The Wertheimers dedicated the song to a childhood friend of Glenda’s who died of AIDS.

Following the Wertheimers were the Giduz Family Jugglers, a rather literal title as the audience was soon to learn. The group consisted of Bill Giduz from College Relations, his young daughter, and his 11-month-old son, Luke. The act began with Giduz swinging his daughter over his back and onto his shoulders. The audience was gripped with nervous attention as Giduz swung his daughter around and erupted in applause when the trick had been successfully—and safely—performed.

The audience was to receive no relief from the tension, however. Giduz next swung his daughter in front of him from side to side until he did an “around the world,” spinning his daughter a full 180 degrees. Giduz then put his daughter aside and picked up his son Luke. He first performed a balancing act holding Luke in his right hand away from his body. Luke looked out into the crowd happily as he seemed to float above the stage. Giduz proceeded to tell the audience that he was going to juggle his son, an announcement which heightened the crowd’s attention tenfold. Juggling two balls with his right hand, Giduz held Luke close to his stomach with his left hand and dramatically switched Luke to the right and the balls to the left.

For the finale, Giduz produced a wooden board and a cylinder and balanced himself on it intending to juggle three bowling pins. He then invited his daughter to climb on, putting her feet on the board inside his. They shortly gained their balance and Giduz successfully juggled the bowling pins. The Giduz Family Jugglers left the stage receiving a boisterous round of applause.

Around the World International Festival in the Union
Photo by Marton Woodworth
Saad Gul participates in the International Festival in the Union last Saturday.its centerpiece: the International Festival. Students, faculty, and Davidson residents came together to celebrate the heritage of over 23 countries. Activities at the festival ranged from getting a picture taken in an Indian sari to getting one’s name written in Pakistani. Anyone who attended the events received exposure to music, food, and information from around the world. Aparna Iyer, who performed an Indian dance in the 900 Room, said, “Every international student has two sides, and the festival gives us an opportunity to show the other side.” Without the festival, many people do not realize that the person living next door could have unseen talents from another culture. Ruth Pittard, liaison to the international students, believes that this year’s festival was the “best ever” as compared to the previous 11 festivals. More countries were represented than ever before, and a tremendous number of people attended the event. Junior Alfredo Urbino said the festival was similar to “going on a discovery trip because of the exposure to all the different cultures.” Senior Amanda Grant agreed about how fun the festival was and said, “I cannot believe that I waited until my senior year to come.” This year’s festival was organized by the Union Board Cultural Events Committee chaired by Jenny Everett. She explained that “the festival took a lot of work, but it went smoothly and everybody seemed to have a great time.” Although International Festival has passed, the Cultural Events Committee has many more events planned to quench your international desire.

Bravely following the Giduz family was faculty assistant Kristi Newton, singing the gospel song “Daystar.” Dr. Michael Poimzacn played three songs from his native Cyprus on the mandolin. Doris Hermann, an international student from Germany, was the only student to perform in the show. Hermann performed “I Don’t Know How to Love Him” from Jesus Christ Superstar accompanied on piano by Dean Williams. Dr. Donald and Meg Kimmel were the next performers. According to the program, they were to do a “dramatic reading of several poems.” This was a tongue-in-cheek description; they were absurdly serious in order to be funny. Nowhere was this more apparent than in their finale, a rendition of “I Got You, Babe” by Sonny and Cher. They delivered the song in such an absolutely serious manner that it became hilarious.

See Show continued on page 12

Music Review
It’s no Monster hit
by Tom Bavis

R.E.M.’s new album Monster should silence any remaining skeptics—for a few more years at least—who snottily predicted that the kings of American rock were losing it. Less than two years after the release of their overwhelmingly calm and beautiful Automatic for the People, R.E.M. has made the exact opposite album. Monster rocks at least as hard as Document, and is as shabbily recorded at many points as Dead Letter Office. Michael Stipe’s singing is as indecipherable as it is on Murmur. And, most importantly to the album’s sound, guitarist Peter Buck took the helm in the studio, serving up as many layers of distorted guitars as My Bloody Valentine or Sonic Youth.

But, alas, Monster as a whole is not superlative compared to the rest of the R.E.M. catalog. What the band gains in admiration it loses in song quality. I must disagree with Rolling Stone’s claim that “there is not a throwaway in the bunch.” “Crush With Eyeliner,” an exercise in the raw power of distortion, has nary a melody nor catchy rhythm in earshot. The same sad fate falls upon “Circus Envy.” In many previous R.E.M. songs that had these symptoms, like Document’s “Oddfellows Local 151,” Michael Stipe’s words could usually distract.

See REM continued on pg. 11