RIS & LIVING MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1994

Film Review

Pulp Fiction: Quentin Tarantino strikes again

By A. Wilkinson Stump

Quentin Tarantino has a notorious reputation around Hollywood. His movies have been characterized as “pumping powerhouses” and sheer “blasts to
the heart.” After seeing his writing/directing debut Reservoir Dogs a few years ago, I have been a sworn Tarantino fanatic,
and he has yet to disappoint me. His stories have an amazing impact on my nerves, and by the end
of each movie, I am left feeling as spent as... mmmm, never mind. Pretend I never started that thought. Anyway,
Quentin has done it again. His newest effort to hit the cinema is Pulp Fiction, and I have to say
that it is one of the most original, daring movies of all time. Playboy Magazine gave it the highest rating
of four bunnies (so I hear), and this was enough to send me into a state of hyperactivity for the
past two weeks. After seeing it, I agree with Hugh Hefner’s opinion.

Here’s a quick synopsis: Vincent Vega (John Travolta) and Jules (Samuel Jackson in a brilliant performance) are henchmen for crime
lord Marsellus Wallace, and they do what all henchmen are supposed to do, that is, make the boss happy. Butch
(Bruce Willis, who is a badass) is an aging boxer under Wallace’s control who eventually double-crosses the big man. Uma
Thurman (who is hot) is Wallace’s wife, and she has a teeny-tiny drug problem. The movie is basically three stories
wrapped up into one big story, with John Travolta as the only common thread between all three. The vignettes are:
Vega must take Uma out for a night on the town courtesy of the boss, but things go very awry.
Butch pisses off Marsellus, must leave town, return to town, and stay alive in the span of twelve hours. And
Jules faces a “transitional state” and must decide whether to remain a hitman or live his life pursuing divine miracles.

See Pulp continued on page 11

Glamour Shots © Expose: Uncovering the phenomenon

BEFORE

By Rachel Newcomb

When I walked into the Glamour Shots© studio, I thought I was visiting a Hollywood conception of the dressing room
of a showgirl. There were bright lightbulbs everywhere, lining the mirrors that encircle the make-up artists’ cubbies. Huge racks of
brightly colored clothes covered one whole wall, and Top 40 dance music pounded from the stereo. From time to time,
different pictures would flash onto a video monitor of women dressed in all types of outfits, from pale yellow sundresses
to fierce biker jackets.

“I have a 9:15 appointment,” I told the smiling man behind the desk.

“Great! We'll just have you fill out this form and then we’ll do a wardrobe consultation.” He handed me a
clipboard questionnaire full of choices like ‘Hair: Straight, Big Soft Curls, Tight Bouncy Curls’ or ‘Make-up: Casual Daytime, Dressy, Flashy
Evening.’ I wanted it all. I checked the box for the “big hair” and “evening” look.

“Feel free to browse through the wardrobe and choose four outfits,” a man dressed entirely in black told me. “Unless
you brought something you’d like to be photographed in. We have the evening dresses and feathers over here.”

I flipped through the clothes in the racks. The evening dresses consisted of large colored sashes to be draped over
the shoulders while perhaps wrapping yourself in a feather boa. There were leather jackets of every color, fringed country &
western coats with matching cowboy hats, and pointy cone-shaped tops that looked like they had been taken from Madonna’s last
tour. Some of the clothes looked like things you...could wear on the street without getting stared at. But I had
come to Glamour Shots to be noticed, and I wasn’t about to pick a demure brown jacket or a frilly
white blouse. After lengthy consultation with the style consultant, I picked a bright red sequined jacket, a sequined vest with
silver and gold moons and stars, a tasteful mauve evening wrap, and a tough black jacket with zippers on the
sides. My stylist handed me a black smock and told me to go into the dressing room. With the smock
on, I settled into the make-up artist’s chair to be remade into whatever they wanted me to be. The woman
who did my make-up was friendly yet businesslike, not chatty like some hairdressers can be. She covered my head with
fat rollers and began to apply pale brown foundation to my face with a small sponge. While I watched, she
lined my eyes, coated my lashes thickly with mascara, and painted my lips a deep burgundy. I looked like I
was ready for the stage. “It might look like a lot of makeup, but it’s really not on film,” she
assured me. Then my hair came down, or rather, went up, depending on how you look at it. It was
teased with combs and hairspray until it surrounded my head like a televangelist’s wife’s hairdo. “If you had bangs I
could make it bigger,” the stylist assured me, trying in vain to fluff the front of my hair. Then it
was time for the photo shoot. I was led into the studio where a short guy not much older than
me arranged my arms and shoulders in various awkward positions for the camera. For each outfit, he handed me clip-on
earrings from a hanging plastic bag. From time to time he’d make a flirtatious comment. “That’s a little kid’s vest,”
he said.

See Hot continued on page 12

Photo courtesy of High Street

Pierce Pettis entertained with his six-string and moving lyrics

Blues Monday: Unplugged by Dave Williard

In his October 3 performance at the Union’s Live Monday, acoustic guitarist and singer Pierce Pettis revealed a wisdom and
power of humility that I rarely see in artists. Drawing from both new and old material, his ninety-minute set embraced
an almost shocking emotional depth. “Being an artist makes you different from other people,” Pettis said. “As I get older,
I realize what has real quality. I think people get quantity and quality mixed up.” Instead of forcing a melody
and rhythm, Pettis subordinates his guitar playing to the dynamics of his voice. For him, music serves as a medium
for supporting lyrics. Many of his songs carry a melancholy tone. “Tinseltown,” Pettis’s 1991 Windham Hill release, carries a sobering
message about the disappointments of life. A few lines of the song “Swimming” read, “There’s a man saying words over
a body and the words that he says are not his own/ And his candle is so small.” Pettis is
not boastful about his work—he sees us all drawing from the same well, and this modest tone brings true beauty
to his songwriting and performances. His musical intensity recently culminated in his newest release, “Chase the Buffalo.” With David Hidalgo
of Los Lobos and Booker T. Jones accompanying, several western radio stations gave Pettis Album of the Year awards. The
album’s success enabled him to win a Nashville songwriting contract and he is now gaining a reputation as an up-and-coming
songwriter. “It’s really an honor when other people sing my songs,” Pettis said. “It’s like letting a child go.” I
am excited to see such high-caliber artists coming to Davidson. “It always feels good to know what you’re doing is
right,” Pierce said about his music. And it always is a reassurance to us that great artists continue to gain
exposure.
