12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14

Refugee conveys powerful story through performance art
By Geordie Schimmel

On November 8, in what was perhaps one of the most unique performances this semester in the 900 Room, Burmese
refugee Yuzana Khin performed her original play, “A Struggle for Freedom.” The one-person play is dedicated to the human rights
struggle of Nobel Peace Laureate Aung San Suu Kyi and incorporates slides, music, and singing. During the production, Khin moves
between personas, speaking as herself, as the oppressive Burmese military forces, or as Suu Kyi. All of this occurred as
slide images were flashed onto a screen behind the actress.

Khin’s theatrical techniques are powerful. The audience, instead of sitting dumbly before a flat, uninspired stage, is elevated to a
heightened state. Burma comes alive beneath Khin’s acting, and through her, Burma’s plight is made real and tangible.

Khin has gained something of a reputation internationally. In 1988 she led the pro-democracy movement in Burma, amassing 10,000 students
in a nonviolent demonstration to protest the injustice of the currently-installed junta. Eventually, Khin applied for and received amnesty from
the United States, where she went on to receive various degrees from Simon’s Rock College and Georgetown University. Presently, she
is performing in the United States, speaking about the human rights situation in Burma and performing her multimedia play.

“We will prevail,” Khin says. “We must all work together.” And because of the efforts of the Davidson chapter of
Amnesty International, and because of the international impact of her touching play, Yuzana Khin may be right.

Music Review
New release, Nirvana Unplugged, fuels legend of Kurt Cobain
By Tom Bavis

Recorded a year ago this week, MTV Unplugged in New York gives the Nirvana myth an added dose of bittersweetness.
Kurt Cobain’s voice, frail and detached, wails melodies that can arouse emotions as well as leave people humming for hours.
“Polly” and “Something in the Way” appear almost unchanged from the originals. Most of the songs on Unplugged have much
the same feel of those two Nevermind ballads: the guitars sound less like acoustic instruments and more like unplugged electric
ones. All the instruments, especially the drums, are understated. Thus, Kurt Cobain’s voice, for better or worse, gets pushed to
the forefront.

A trembling cello heightens the tension in “Dumb,” helping to make it one of the very best originals of the
show. Cobain’s decision to go it alone on “Pennyroyal Tea” pays off. A seemingly meaningless song from In Utero, when
stripped to the minimum, proves to possess moments of quiet intensity: “Give me a Leonard Cohen afterworld / So I
can sigh eternally.”

One of the band’s most honorable qualities on Unplugged is their unpredictable yet satisfying choice of songs, both for covers
and originals. Just as “Teen Spirit,” “Lithium,” and “Heart-Shaped Box” are conspicuously missing, so is anything by Cobain favorites R.E.M.
and the Beatles. Three Meat Puppets covers feature guest appearances by members of that Arizona band. Nirvana bassist Krist Novoselic
impresses with a switch to accordion for the album’s best cover, “Jesus Doesn’t Want Me for a Sunbeam.” Cobain introduces
the Leadbelly classic “Where Did You Sleep Last Night” with the surprising assertion, “This is a song by my favorite
performer — our favorite performer, actually.”

With such great songs to work with, it is easy not to notice some of the technical weaknesses that...make Nirvana’s
Unplugged album inferior compared to the infallible ones of 10,000 Maniacs and Eric Clapton. But some imperfections reveal themselves on
a careful listen. Dave Grohl, usually as powerful a drummer as they come, drifts too far to the extreme of
near-silence. Because of this, he needlessly becomes a follower. Despite the way they look from pictures of the show, the
guitars sound far from acoustic. Except for a couple of songs in which they are given some distortion, they possess
a bland sound of an electric guitar with nothing on it. It is pure, perhaps, but not ear-catching. However, even
with the wimpy drums, the strained voice, and the murky guitars, Unplugged still earns its pay on the power of
great songs, Nirvana-written or otherwise.

Like artsy stuff? Like to write? Want to meet a cute girl? Call Rachel at -2148 and become part of
The Davidsonian staff.

Gear Up For Winter At...

OUTDOORS

All MOONSTONE Sleeping Bags 20-25% OFF!
All Backpacks 10-25% OFF!
MOONSTONE Patagonia

Shops on the Green: Exit 28. Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn

BAGS AND OUTDOOR CLOTHING

Photo by Rob Kosicki

Saturday afternoon, Ministers of Sinister played at Kappa Sig featuring the most unique drum solo ever.

Dear Terry Buffington,

Dear Terry,

Dr. Ruth came this week, but she didn’t answer all of my questions. She said to keep lust alive you
have to try new things. But, I want to know the what, where, and how of these “new things.”

Sincerely,
Horny and Hoping

Dear Horny and Hoping,

There is a reason Dr. Ruth did not recite a detailed list of new and exciting things to help revive
the lust in your relationship. You need to use your own imagination. No one knows the sexual fantasies lurking in
the recesses of your mind better than you. These “new things” you plan to try need to be tailored to
your desires. Dr. Terry, however, will not leave you totally abandoned. As a starting point, I will list some items
and ideas that I have found helpful. You are on your own to figure out how to incorporate my suggestions
into your bedroom activity. Here are some “new things” you might find interesting: packing bubbles, Crisco, sour cream, whip cream,
a snake, flashlights, batting helmets, clippings of my photos from past issues, Barry White, a javelin or two, a Rubik's
cube, a tube of super glue, and leg warmers.

Love,
Terry

Dear Terry,

How do you deal with someone who’s a snob but doesn’t know what she’s talking about? I mean, if you’re
going to talk about quality all the time you should at least know what it is, shouldn’t you?

Sincerely,
Confused

Dear Confused,

I know the kind of person you are dealing with. This personality type has passed through my office more than
once, and I can assure you they are some of the most difficult people with which I work. Luckily, I
have come up with a solution for how to handle sociological assholic, as they are known in the biz. Next
time they say something that you disagree with, kill them. Very few dead people are snobs. We don’t need these
slimes anyway.

Love,
Terry

Terry Buffington cares about you. The letters answered in this column come from real, live students. Write if you too
need advice, help, or support.

Tanning Special: 10 visits for $33!
