THE DAVIDSONIAN | SPORTS | MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1994 15

Men's Soccer: Victory Over TCU

By Dave Aycock

The men’s soccer team has entered their toughest stretch of the season, as they have entered a series of matches before the Southern Conference Tournament in early November.

The Wildcats opened the week’s games on Wednesday at Wake Forest to play the host Demon Deacons. Wake Forest, who was led by two goals from Ryan Scott and scored three times in the first 21 minutes, were able to defeat the Wildcats 3-1. The ‘Cats' goal came from Robert Clarke in the 23rd minute.

The team was in action again on Thursday, as they returned home to face the Keydets of VMI in cold, rainy weather. The ‘Cats rebounded from Wednesday’s loss in high fashion, as they got goals from Phil Julien, Nick Troiano, John Hudson, and Robert Clarke en route to an easy 5-1 victory. The ‘Cats' scoring binge continued on Friday as they traveled to Columbia, South Carolina, to participate in the USC Met Life Classic. Davidson easily won their Friday game against Texas Christian, defeating the Horned Frogs 5-1.

Freshman Julien was a force, scoring three goals and dishing out an assist as well. Julien’s hat trick was his first as a collegian, and the first on the team this year. Keith Kleeman and Fernando Campos added the other goals, and senior captain John Sampers gave out two assists. Davidson played again in the tournament on Sunday against the nation’s second-ranked team, North Carolina.

The Wildcats' record now stands at 4-1 in the Southern Conference and 8-5-1 overall. The team will have until Thursday to recover from the strain of playing four games in five days, as Georgia Southern will come to Richardson Field to face the Wildcats in their last home game of the season.

Men’s soccer:
Wed. - vs. Ga. Southern, 7 p.m.

Women’s soccer:
Sun. - vs. Ga. Southern, 3 p.m.
Wed. - vs. ASU, 4:30 p.m.
Sat. - vs. Va. Commonwealth, 2 p.m.
Sun. - vs. Richmond, 1 p.m.

This week's home games:
Field Hockey:
Wed. - vs. Winthrop, 7 p.m.

Soccer Game of the Week:
Wed. - UNCC vs. Creighton, 7 p.m.

Classifieds

Babysitter Needed
One night per week
Must have own transportation
References required
Call 663-6091

FOR SALE
1988 Black Honda Prelude in good condition.
Call 875-6523
Best offer considered

SPRING BREAK
Nassau/Paradise Island, Cancun, and Jamaica from $299. Air, Hotel, Transfers, Parties, and More! Organize a small group—earn a FREE trip plus commission!
Call 1-800-822-0321

Field Hockey Goes 2-1 on Louisville Weekend Trip

By Richard Glenn

The Davidson field hockey team traveled to Louisville last weekend for a three-game tour. On Saturday, the team played SW Missouri, and unfortunately, the ‘Cats never got on their game. “We started out playing defensively rather than offensively and that cost us the game,” said Jessica Roy ‘98. Davidson fell behind 1-0, and although they played aggressively in the second half, they couldn’t find the back of the net. The referees also made several questionable offsides calls on Davidson’s scoring chances, making the 1-0 loss all the more frustrating.

The ‘Cats were upset about their loss on Saturday and came out fired up on Sunday against Bellarmine College. Davidson scored early and played confidently throughout the game and came away with a solid 4-0 victory. Andrea Short ‘95, Holly Kledis ‘96, Nikki Ficeto ‘96, and Chase Kieth ‘98 were responsible for Wildcat goals. On Monday, the ‘Cats faced the University of Louisville, where they were intent on coming away from the trip with a winning record. Although the score was only 2-1, Davidson dominated the game. Erin Smith ‘98 scored first for the ‘Cats, and Kledis added a second-half goal to seal the victory for Davidson. Crisp passing and all-around teamwork allowed Davidson to play one of their better games of the year.

Monday’s win was important to the team as they did not want the eight-hour bus ride to go for naught. Davidson’s record now stands at 8-4, and they are at home for their next four games, the first being Appalachian State on October 19.

The Student Desktop ValuePoint 425SX/Si ThinkPad 340

Grab an IBM

$1399

The ValuePoint™ Si is the perfect entry-level system.
For performance:
• Intel® 486SX/25MHz chip
• 212MB hard drive
• 4MB RAM (expandable to 64MB)

For flexibility:
• VESA local bus
• 14V Color Monitor (with a maximum diagonal viewable screen size of 13”)
• 3 slots, 3 bays
• Software including Microsoft® Office, Academic Edition including Word for Windows, and Excel

$1499

The ThinkPad® 340 offers desktop power in a lightweight notebook package.
For performance:
• 486SLC2/50MHz processor
• 125MB hard drive
• 4MB RAM (expandable to 20MB)
• Internal data/fax modem

For flexibility:
• 4.82 pounds
• VGA monochrome screen
• PCMCIA support

Save hundreds of dollars with preloaded software like Microsoft Works, SofNet FaxWorks™, and introductory software to online services

Backpack carrying case by PORT

Also standard: 1-year limited warranty, 30-day money-back guarantee, DOS & Windows™ preloaded

Buy an IBM personal computer for college and you can fly anywhere in the continental U.S. during the 1994-95 school year for a mere $125 each way (based on a round trip purchase). To get in flight, call us today.

And don’t forget to ask about our affordable financing plans, specially designed for a student budget.

IBM

To order call today!
1-800-426-7341