THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 1994

Well, Jeff, now that you’ve addressed the issues of complacency, discrimination, and emotional pain in your first three articles, whatever
will you find to enlighten the masses with this time? The answer, unfortunately, is... nothing. That is, I have no
wisdom of my own to impart this time, if I ever really had any. This article is mainly composed of
stuff I didn’t write. The basic theme, though, is wisdom. There are few sources of wisdom that are as complete
and helpful as the famous Sermon on the Mount, whether you happen to be religious or not. The sermon, found
in the 5th chapter of the Gospel according to Matthew, expounds upon the virtues of being different. In this case,
being different might mean any number of things, but all of them involve placing your own personal beliefs as the
guiding force in your life, above any other pressures. To make a long story short, it’s all about seeing the
good side of what most people consider to be bad situations. So here, for your reading enjoyment, are Jeff George’s
Modern Paraphrased Beatitudes:

You’re lucky if...
- you are downhearted, because you have the opportunity to find the problems in your life and to make your
life the way you want it to be.
- you feel sadness for others, because your ability to understand their pain will make you both feel better.
- you exercise thoughtfulness and compassion over hatred and aggression, because you will earn the respect of those around you.
- you continually seek to improve yourself and your life, because your search will keep you focused and happy.
- you provide aid to those around you when they are in need, because they will help you when you
need it most.
- you hold firm to what you believe despite pressures, temptations, and ridicule, because you will respect yourself, and your
self-esteem will not be damaged by the uninformed opinions of others.
- you help others to improve themselves, because you will have the satisfaction of helping to bring peace to the
world.
- you are discriminated against or attacked for what you believe or for what you are, because you will become
that much stronger and understanding for having suffered.

In short, your situation will always be what you make of it, and it is up to you alone to
make it a good one. A wise person can find all the happiness in the world just by making him
or herself into the best possible human being. Work with the talents you have, know your limitations, and stick to
what you believe.

Nathan Seay

Get rid of those keys.

Something has been bothering me for some time now, and I think that this week would be an appropriate time
to vent my frustration publicly with some new fashion statement that seems to be all the rage among freshman women.
I first noticed this strange behavior at the beginning of last semester. I was walking through the halls of Chambers,
minding my own business, when I heard a jingling sound. I may not have given it a thought had it
been closer to Christmas, but September was a bit early to hear those jingle bells. I searched and searched for
the source of the tintinnabulation to no avail. (“Tintinnabulation” is the type of word referred to by English majors as
an I’m-Smarter-Than-You term.) At last, my eyes came to rest upon the protuberance on which the jingle jangle bounced. I
couldn’t believe what I was seeing. I had to stare. The young lady walking in front of me had somehow
gotten her keys stuck halfway into her back pocket. The rest of her keys flounced against her Calvin Kleins. I
felt sorry for the girl, who, I was sure, was just as confused as I was as to where the
bells were coming from. I figured that the girl was a freshman because she was cute and had not yet
filed a restraining order against me. I hadn’t yet done my good deed for the day, so I took it
upon myself to save the young waif before she sat down and skewered her eighteen-year-old behind.

I ran up to her and informed her of the danger she was in. She turned her big blue eyes
up to mine, ablaze with passion. Things were going well. Then she opened her mouth. “Who gave you permission to
stare at my butt?” I tried to stammer a reply, but before I could get any words out of my
mouth she spoke again. “Hey! You’re that guy who was playing with my underwear in the laundry!” Then my little
butterfly punched me in the solar plexus, leaving me to suck tile while she ran off screaming, “Pervert! Pervert! Cover
your behind or Nathan Seay will stare at it!” After I regained my breath and my feet, I started noticing
other girls walking around with musical seats. It appeared that dozens—if not hundreds—of girls chose to place their keys in
such a manner as to put their cabooses in jeopardy. After interviewing a few girls, I found out that this
was the new hip thing to do on campus (pun most definitely intended). I don’t know how or why this
fashion statement involving self-mutilation started. I guess that piercing belly buttons just wasn’t enough. Now these crazy teenagers have invented
butt piercing which they practice every time they sit down. I’m all for expressing yourself whatever way you want to,
but I think that it’s time for some of these ladies to start questioning the...Fashion Gods and ask why they
subject themselves to this torture. I don’t think that being cool is worth it.

Chris Edmonston

Spend a day with a two-year-old. I had a very interesting semester break. Not only did I live through my
first New England blizzard, go flying down the side of a mountain on a sled, and shovel more snow than
I ever imagined, I got to babysit my girlfriend’s nephew for an afternoon. Thank the powers that be that she
was there with me, for I got out lucky and did not have to change any diapers. She did all
the “messy” stuff while I got the hard job of “the entertainment.” I thought entertaining him would be easy. I
was wrong, and I probably should have just sucked it up and volunteered to change the diapers. But, I did
make several observations as I was being led all around the house.

First of all, two-year-olds do everything all out. Nothing for them is a half effort. Whether it is coloring, playing
blocks, or eating, everything is all-encompassing—a total investment. Two-year-olds do not like to be told “no.” And, my girlfriend’s two-year-old
nephew especially does not like to be prohibited from anything. However, he is very sly. When he is stopped or
paused in any way, he looks up at you, holds up one little finger, “Just one more cookie,” or “Just
one more time.” They know where to hit you at your weakest and get what they feel they need.

Two-year-olds trust. They look at us and absorb. Each day I was with him I could see his mind at
work: processing, connecting, arriving at new and impressive conclusions. I drew for him, and he learned the many shapes I
was drawing in a mere afternoon. If my mind was capable of that type of absorption I believe my GPA
would be much higher.

As a twenty-two-year-old American, I had never experienced anything like this before. I had never really babysat. I had never
taken the time to spend with anyone’s children. In fact, I had avoided two-year-olds like the plague. But on this
day I had no choice. He was mine to watch. Mine to protect. Mine to keep safe. Mine to entertain.
He became my responsibility, and in that afternoon not only did he learn the difference between a pentagon and an
octagon, but I learned some far greater, more complicated lessons.

Being a parent is hard. I never had appreciated what my folks did for me and my sister. How did
they do that? How do anyone’s parents? By four in the afternoon when his mother returned I was tired. I
didn’t want to move, only to sleep. I felt as if I had just finished an exam. My Christmas and
my trip to England taught me a lot of lessons. I learned not to sled with blue jeans on. I
learned not to walk across icy ponds with tennis shoes on my feet. But these are weather lessons. The life
lessons I learned came from the classroom of the two-year-old. My day with Cody was in many ways the most
rewarding and amazing of my life. The laughter of children is inspiring and beautiful. I believe that almost all of
us as Davidson students take this for granted in our environment that is devoid of children. The most I had
ever come into contact with a child’s development previously was in Dr. Palmer’s General Psychology class. Until that day when
I saw a child learn and grow. Spend the day with a two-year-old: self-sacrifice, and look at how cool I
am. Okay, maybe that was a bad example. But, like my mother says, if your friends don’t like you because
of how you look, then they’re not really your friends. (Hey! Wait a minute. All my friends keep making lots
of body hair jokes. I think I have to reevaluate my circle of comrades. I may not have any friends
after all.)

One girl tried to justify the posterior placement of her keys by saying, “If you put your keys in your
front pocket, it makes your hips look bigger.” One: only an idiot would think that your hips are normally shaped
with an extra big bulge on one side of your pelvis. And if you are naturally shaped that way, keys
are a great way to even out your figure. Two: you are an idiot if you think that you are
drawing attention away from the size of your hips by placing flashing lights and hooting whistles on your gluteus maximus.
I’m afraid there is some bad news even for those women who move their keys away from that dangerous locale.
I will take on the unsafe position of speaking for all of malehood and say that no matter how hard
you try, no matter what you do, no matter what you wear, we will look. You can frustrate us by
carrying your books like you’re playing bridge, but we will all look at something. One good thing about taking the
keys out of your back pocket is that the next man you bust with downcast eyes will not have an
excuse. I’ve already taken advantage of that situation in several instances. The next girl who caught me looking at her
behind (this happens to me three or four times a day) whirled around and demanded what I was looking at.
“Simple,” I coolly replied, “I was just trying to see what kind of car you drive.” I still got punched,
but at least I know deep down that she can’t file a restraining order against me—yet.
