16 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1994

Cats look forward to season

Hoops continued from page 15

off the bench. “We'll get quality minutes from many players this season. We are surprisingly impressed with the newcomers,” says McKillop.

The Southern Conference has moved to a two-division format for regular season competition. This alignment will give the Wildcats only one game against tough opponents like Georgia Southern and Western Carolina along with defending conference champion, UT-Chattanooga. Although this will make the tournament in March that much more interesting, the reduced schedule has freed up space for regional competition. Davidson will compete in the Carrier Classic on the weekend following Thanksgiving break with an opportunity to face the #12 Syracuse Orangemen. Over Christmas break, the Wildcats will face another Big East opponent in Seton Hall on December 22 before traveling to Idaho to compete in the Boise State Invitational.

Southern Conference features two-division format

So. Co. continued from page 14

as a 41-point effort against Davidson in the conference semi-finals. Solid Anquell McCollum is his backcourt partner, and forward Tim Ford is also back, but the Catamounts' success rests squarely on the shoulders of King. They should be in good hands.

Georgia Southern brings four starters from last year’s fifth-place squad. Guard Dante Gay steps into a starting role and hopes to improve on his 13.8 ppg average of last season. Reigning Freshman of the Year Lonnie Edwards is back at the other guard spot and represents the heart of the squad. Guard Tim Heath is also back, giving the Eagles a solid three-guard rotation. The problem for the Eagles will be a less than stellar frontcourt.

Furman also returns four starters from last year’s eighth-place squad, but it won’t be enough this year. The two guards are back, but after the two returning forwards, the Paladins have little to work with. Senior small forward Steve Harris will be the offensive leader.

The Citadel will feature senior forward Reggie Jones (13.3 ppg last year), but doesn’t have any returning players over 6’6”. Seven freshmen join the squad and should have the Bulldogs looking to the future for success.

Attempting to challenge Davidson for the Northern Division will be Appalachian State and forward Chad McClendon. McClendon is one of three unanimous preseason all-conference picks along with King and Wildcats star Brandon Williams. McClendon averaged 17.1 points and 8.9 rebounds per game last year, posting 11 double-doubles and scoring over 10 points in 25 games. William Cook is a very good guard, but the Mountaineers have to overcome the loss to academics of Nod Carter and Tremayne Rooks. A highly touted recruiting class should help that effort.

Right up there with Appalachian State is East Tennessee State. The Bucs went 13-5 and tied for second in the conference last year, but were just 16-14 overall. The tradition of strong backcourts continues in Johnson City, Tennessee. Seniors Geoff Herman and Robert Daggett will be complimented by sophomore Corrie Johnson and will create a force to be reckoned with. Senior center Tony Patterson could dominate the inside as a preseason all-conference pick.

Last season, Wildcat player profiles

Team continued from page 15

and committed. He’s always the first in line,” says McKillop.

Narcisse Ewodo 6-8 So.: Ewodo comes to Davidson from Cameroon as a sophomore. His height serves as an advantage and he should see time in the post. “He has great potential to fill many roles. He’s a very quick learner with the potential to be an outstanding scorer and defender,” says McKillop.

Billy Armstrong 6-2 Fr.: Coming from Oradell, N.J. Armstrong averaged 11 points and four rebounds a game at the guard position. “He will be an extremely valuable backup quarterback. He has a passion for working to improve himself,” says McKillop.

Ben Ebong 6-6 Fr.: A forwardFrom Omaha, Nebraska, Ebong averaged 19 points and ten rebounds in high school. McKillop describes him as “a front court jack-of-all-trades. He is an offensive rebounding machine with the potential to defend three different positions.”

Ray Minlend 6-3 Fr.: A guard from Cameroon as well, Minlend averaged 18 points and seven rebounds in high school. “He’s tough, aggressive, and relentless; defensive stopper number two,” said McKillop.

Chris Stec 5-11 Fr.: Stec will play back up in the guard position. McKillop claims that Stec “wears Davidson basketball on his heart. He is the freshman version of Chris Shields.”

Give the world a Christmas present by shopping at the Alternative Christmas Market. You can give money in honor of your friends and family for agricultural development in Nicaragua; fruit and fuel trees in India, deep water wells in China, and many others in need. Donations can range from $2 for a week of lunches in Haiti to $500 for buffalo in South Dakota.

He grabbed 6.6 rebounds along with his 12.1 points per game. But he has the ability to rule the interior both offensively and defensively if he becomes more consistent.

For Marshall, the most recognizable face will be John Pelphrey, who joins the Herd as an assistant coach. The stars on the court are forward Shawn Moore and guard Malik Hightower. Moore can score from any spot on the floor, and Hightower has the ability to take over the game. But there isn’t enough to make Marshall a realistic force.

VMI has had nine straight losing seasons and is on its way to a tenth. The Keydets started three freshmen and a sophomore last year, but none are good enough to impose a threat. VMI has another long rebuilding year ahead of it.

Coaches’ picks
Davidsonian’s picks
Northern Division
1. Davidson
1. Davidson
2. ETSU
2. Appalachian State
3. Marshall
3. ETSU
4. ASU
4. Marshall
5. VMI
5. VMI

Southern Division
1. UT-C
1. UT-C
2. Ga. Southern
2. Western Carolina
3. W. Carolina
3. Ga. Southern
4. Furman
4. Furman
5. The Citadel
5. The Citadel

With 4 returning starters and 5 newcomers, these games, in addition to a home game against Wake Forest next Tuesday, will make the schedule more challenging and should help the Wildcats come tournament time. “Our schedule is much more national in scope than regional as in the past. The tournaments will give us much more exposure in different areas,” said McKillop.

In only the third year after returning to the Southern Conference, Davidson has moved from competitors to contenders to favorites. The team won 13 of their final 16 games last season and recaptured an enthusiasm for basketball at Davidson that had all but fizzled. That success should carry into the 1994-95 season. The large crowds that poured in at the end of the season should be there at the beginning. We should win the tournament and go to the NCAA Tournament. Anything less would be an unfulfilling season, but this success won’t happen unless they get the fan support they need. This support can start when Davidson faces the Wake Forest Demon Deacons.

The Davidsonian Thanksgiving Sale Until December 3! Bring In Your Davidson I.D. For 10% OFF ALL REGULARLY PRICED MERCHANDISE

MOONSTONE Patagonia SLEEPING BAGS AND OUTDOOR CLOTHING

SUNDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2:00-4:00 p.m. in Union

Tanning Special: 10 visits for $33! Shops on the Green: Exit 28. Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn

CANCEL YOUR LIBRARY FINES

"Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus!" From November 28th until December 21st you can pay for your Library fines and IOUs with cans of food which will be given to the needy in our area.

HOW: One can of food will cover up to $1.00 of overdue fines or IOUs. (E.G.-- for five cans of food, you can pay for $4.50 in fines.)

Where: Library Circulation Desk