THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, APRIL 25, 1994 15

Davidson College will host internationally recognized Irish poet Seamus Heaney for a special reading on Friday, April 29, at 7:30
p.m. in the 900 Room. Born in 1939 on a farm in County Derry, Northern Ireland, Mr. Heaney taught at
Queens University, Belfast, until 1972. Since then he has divided his time between Dublin and Cambridge, Mass., where he teaches
at Harvard University. In addition, he has been elected a professor of poetry at Oxford University. Mr. Heaney has been
selected as a member of the Irish Academy of Letters and for the past ten years he has been nominated
as a candidate for the Nobel Prize in Literature. Although he has published collections of essays, The Government...

Thespians bemuse audiences

Act continued from page 12

...through loving or through hurting. Jerry manages to uncover the impotence of Peter’s marriage and lifestyle, and he coerces Peter
into showing some real feeling as the play progresses. Finally, Jerry pushes Peter off the bench and goads him into
fighting for it. Jerry succeeds in making a connection with Peter, by impaling himself on the knife in Peter’s hand—an
act of hurting which, for Jerry, is as significant as a show of love. The play closes as Peter runs
away screaming, his life hopelessly disrupted by the strange man he leaves bleeding to death on the park bench.

Ramsay succeeds in making Jerry a character the audience can both laugh at and sympathize with, while Jernigan captures the
emotional changes which Peter goes through in the play. Director Scott Lenhart especially deserves recognition for carrying off the shocking
effect of the suicide scene. He manages to preserve both the humorous and unsettling aspects of the script.

Lanford Wilson’s Ikke Ikke Nye Nye Nye and Harry Kondolen’s Self Torture and Strenuous Exercise aim more at simply drawing
laughter from the audience, with varying levels of success. Ikke Ikke is set in the apartment of a telephone operator
named Edith who seems to be trying her best to seduce Graham, a nervous mail boy who has asked her
out. Edith’s relentless teasing only makes Graham more uncomfortable, and his reactions to her are clearly incompetent—at least, until he
gets her where he wants her. Apparently, Graham has an insatiable fetish for obscene phone calls. As soon as he
ties her up and seduces her over the phone, reducing her to a whimpering toy. Meg Miller and Josh Buchanan
make their characters truly funny at points, but the play itself seems to lack depth. By the end of the
play, Graham has completely switched roles with Edith in the seduction, but the characters are so bizarre and unapproachable that
the audience doesn't really care.

Kondolen’s play has even less of a point but manages to draw a lot more laughs. The events in Self
Torture are intentionally absurd, and the plot exists only to set up hilarious interplay between the four characters: Carl, a
manipulative novelist; Adel, his paranoid, suicidal wife; Beth, a flighty poet who is having an affair with Carl; and Alvin,
her husband, a philosophizing cook who always thinks the best of everyone and remains completely oblivious to everything. The dialogue
is packed with pseudo-“deep” statements like...“Love is torture.” Adam Knapp almost steals the show with his brilliant display of Alvin’s
idiocy, but Todd Bowman and Gina Carlotti also get the most possible humor out of their characters. Katherine Laidlaw brings
much energy to the lunatic character of Adel, although at moments she seems to try too hard, and the jokes
get lost. However, the play succeeds as the lightest and funniest of the one-act plays so far, and the action
moves fast enough to sustain the comedy throughout. With such strong crowd response for both Self Torture and The Zoo
Story, perhaps some of these plays should return for an encore performance. Selling the tickets certainly wouldn’t be a problem.

Tongue and The Cure at Troy, and an adaptation of Sophocles’ Philoctetes, it is for his original poetry that he
is most celebrated. In such works as Station Island (1985), The Haw Lantern (1987), and Selected Poems: 1966-1987, one may
witness a mastery of language and imagery nearly unparalleled today. In his poetry, he tells of love and loss, of
family and the past, of Irish tradition and the violent present. And he does so with such sincerity and emotional
candor that it feels not so much like he is depicting a foreign world completely detached from the individual reader’s
own experience, but as if he were opening the door to his own world and inviting the reader to take
a look inside.

Esteemed Irish poet, Seamus Heaney to speak Friday

Band 9:30 pm. is out of Edith’s presence, he calls

Calendar

ON THE SCENE

TUESDAY APRIL 26
Ed Thiedeman Exhibit. Smith Gallery, VAC, through May 13.

WEDNESDAY APRIL 27
Coffeehouse. 900 Room, 8:30-11:00 a.m.
Medieval Society. Phi Hall, upstairs. 7:00 p.m. Calling all knights.
Eumenean Society. Eu Hall, 7:30 p.m.
Dr. Timothy Leary. "How to Operate Your Brain." Tune in, turn on, drop out. Love Aud., 7:30 p.m.
21-Year-Olds Night. 900 Room. 10:00 p.m.-12:30 a.m.

THURSDAY APRIL 28
Crop Lunch. 900 Room, 11:30 a.m.-1:00 p.m.
Gourmet Society Dinner. Vail Commons, 7:30 p.m.
One-Act Plays. Laundry and Bourbon and A Ghost Story. Black Box Theater, Cunningham, Apr. 27 and 28 at 7:30 p.m.
Monty Python’s The Meaning of Life. 900 Room, 9:30 p.m.

FRIDAY APRIL 29
Bookstore Sale. Union Patio, 10 a.m.-3 p.m.
Lunch on the Lawn. Outside Union, 11:30 a.m.
Richard Rorty. "Do We Need Ethical Principles?" 900 Room, 4 p.m.
3 Boys. 900 Room, 10 p.m.
Monty Python’s The Meaning of Life. 900 Room, 9:30 p.m.
Seamus Heaney. Distinguished Irish poet. 7:30 p.m., 900 Room.

SATURDAY APRIL 30
Spring Fest. The weekend-long festival includes vendors and concerts. Tryon Street, Charlotte.
A Day at the Lake. Caribbean Steel and Strings will be playing. 1:30 p.m.-3 p.m.
Jumping Java Cafe. Coffeehouse. Union Outpost, 2-6 p.m.
Crescendo Dance Performance. 900 Room, 8 p.m.
Philanthropic Society Meeting. Phi Hall, 9 p.m.

SUNDAY MAY 1
Vesper Service. Big Screen Room! Union, 10 p.m.

COMING SOON
The Piano. May 4 at 9:30 p.m. and May 6 at 8 p.m., 900 Room.
Michelle Shocked. Spirit Square, Charlotte, May 5. Call 372-SHOW for info.
Dr. Gus Napier. Homework: The Art of Leaving Home. 900 Room, 4:30 p.m.
Commencement. Front Lawn. May 22 at 10 a.m.
