6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

This Week in Washington
As elections near only the candidates seem interested

By Andrea Short

With mid-term elections approaching quickly, House and Senate campaigns are reaching a climax. A new CBS/New York Times Poll shows
that the voters, however, are uninterested and unimpressed with their choices. Many senior senators are facing the toughest races of
their careers.

The CBS/NYT poll released Thursday announced startling levels of dissatisfaction and cynicism. Over sixty percent of the 1,429 adults polled
by telephone could not name a single elected official that they respected. When asked about their own representatives, the level
of dissatisfaction remained high, with only 56 percent of respondents expressing approval, and only one third of those expressing approval
supporting their current representative’s bid for re-election. The dissatisfaction with the Washington crowd is ravaging the incumbents’ chances for re-election,
and many races remain too close to call.

The electorate’s anger at their own and other officials seems rooted in the larger failings of government. More than half
of the respondents felt that even if completely new people were elected, the government would still be inept and inefficient.
The respondents were not hopeful that gradual change could improve the situation; fifty-seven percent said that the nation needed a
new political party. While many expressed feelings of powerlessness and lambasted their representatives for being out of touch, the officials
may not deserve all of the blame; only one in four respondents could name their own Congressional Representative when asked.

The party most hurt by this anger will be the Democrats, as they fend off Republicans hungry for the majority.
Massachusetts’s senatorial legacy, Edward “Ted” Kennedy has faced, but apparently warded off his toughest opponent of his thirty-two year political
career. Mitt Romney, in his first bid for public office, waged a successful campaign that this summer placed him within
only a few percentage points of the senior Democrat. Romney’s threat has lessened, but the press has continued to closely
follow this surprising race. Thirteen Democratic candidates face incumbent Republican Senators, and conventional political wisdom is betting that Democrats have
a chance in only one contest.

The most extreme example of the voters’ disgust with career politicians is the race to represent Oklahoma’s second district in
Congress. A seventy-one year old retired middle school principal named Virgil Cooper is the surprise favorite for the Congressional seat.
The Democrat is the favorite in the largely rural district that hasn’t elected a Republican since 1920. His campaign has
consisted of some short-lived commercials on the local access channels, touring the countryside in his pickup truck, and the slogan
“Elect an Average Citizen.” If Mr. Cooper succeeds, Washington may begin to see a flood of political newcomers in 1996.

Sources include: the October 25 and November 3 issues of The New York Times.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1994

ELSEWHERE

Perspective

NOTES

IQ not the whole story

While it’s true that IQ clearly measures something enormously important to the way people live out their lives, it’s also
true that IQ fails to measure many other human qualities also crucial to life outcome.

IQ can’t, for example, measure creativity or character. It can’t measure drive or determination. It can’t measure wisdom, which derives
from experience, or talent, a commodity only tangentially related to brainpower. Ronald Reagan is probably the classic example of the
triumph of talent over intellect. He’d be the first to admit that he’s no intellectual titan, but he was more
effective by far than a good many presidents who were brighter by far.

Braininess, then, may be the most overrated of virtues. In a world populated only by thinkers, nobody could fix the
toilets, and everybody would die of cholera.

-Albany Times columnist Dan Lynch

Sex in America

Is there a living, breathing adult who hasn’t at times felt the nagging suspicion that in bedrooms across the country,
on kitchen tables, in limos and other venues too scintillating to mention, other folks are having more sex, livelier sex,
better sex? Maybe even that quiet couple right next door is having more fun in bed, and more often. Such
thoughts spring, no doubt, from a primal anxiety deep within the human psyche. It has probably haunted men and women
since the serpent pointed Eve toward the forbidden fruit and urged her to get with the program.

-Time Magazine, Philip Elmer-Dewitt

GLAS Campus-Wide Event

“Celebrating Life”

900 Room ($2.00 admission)

Saturday, November 12, 1994 at 8:00 p.m.
Video Slide Show, Fashion Show, and D.J. Dance Party

Benefits: Metrolina AIDS Project, Time Out Youth, and a scholarship for any student working in the gay community.

Look for sponsor tables in the Union Lobby and First Floor Chambers.

Sponsored by: SGA, BSC, Patterson Court, ISA, FLAG, SERCH, Theatre Department, Cultural Events, College Union, and The Davidsonian.

Models Representing: SGA, BSC, Patterson Court, ISA, FLAG, SERCH, Varsity Sports, Staff, Faculty, Administration, Davidson/Charlotte community...
