RIS & LIVING MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1994

Still Whistlin’ Dixie

You have to love Lyle’s latest: I Love Everybody

By Geoffrey Graham

I Love Everybody. So says Lyle Lovett’s latest album cover. And I really think he means it. I Love Everybody
holds eighteen songs and a full hour of music—something unheard of in country. Most impressive, however, is the caliber of
every song on the album. Lyle returns to the simple, three-chord arrangements of his earlier works. All but one of
the songs use four or fewer instruments, and most feature little or no background vocals (save a few where Julia
Roberts and other friends make guest appearances).

“Penguins” is the one exception to the rule on the album. Lyle returns to the Lyle Lovett and his Large
Band sound as he busts out the trumpets and trombones. Not that monotony would set in without this brief departure,
but “Penguins” does provide a little alternative—whether needed or not. The rest of the album is just guitar and singer,
with a little help from the occasional fiddle or drums. Lyle sings intelligent—and where appropriate, extremely witty—lyrics and plays perfect
guitar with certain sincerity.

No bad songs taint the album, but a few stand out as particularly wonderful. Well, hell; I was about to
list them, but they’re all great. The particularly particularly wonderful ones, however, are his lost or unrequited love songs. In
“Skinny Legs,” my theme song, Lyle begs for a little attention, despite his lack of anything his angel might want.
In “Sonja,” my other theme song... well, let me just tell you the first line: “I’ve never been lucky at
picking up women.” You can judge for yourself what this one’s about. “Moon on my Shoulder” is the saddest song
on the album. “They said time would take care of it / I wish time would take care of me.”
I think time has, Lyle dedicates the album to Julia.

Most of these songs will make you smile, and every one will impress you. I’m not exaggerating when I say
this is my favorite album right now. I love it. If you’d like to start your country collection and you’re
afraid to dive into the mainstream, here’s a little piece on the edge that's definitely worth consideration. Buy it, listen
to it, and go tell someone you love them.

By Yvette Pita

What are you doing for Halloween?

This seems to be the question on many Davidson students’ minds today. Without as many choices for activities on campus
as in the past, the largest Davidson Halloween party this year may be in Chapel Hill. When told that many
Davidson students were going to Chapel Hill tonight, Jennifer Tracey ironically responded, “What a surprise.” Every year, hoards of Davidson
students make the two-hour drive to Chapel Hill on All Hallow’s Eve. Senior Matt Melton explains the attraction: “Well, I
went there two years ago, and it was pretty crazy. There will be about 30,000 drunk kids running around, so
it will be really fun.”

There are some activities planned on campus, however. Rusk is having a lock-in with freshmen that will open up at
11:00 pm. Susan Blue, a freshman, thinks that is where she will go. In addition, members of Kappa Sigma will
be having an off-campus cocktail party to start off the night. Finally, residents of Building F are planning an 'Around
the World' party of their own. SAE’s annual Halloween party, however, will not be held this year due to the
party-registration policy. Kurt Holmes, the Patterson Court Advisor, explains that the Alcohol Policy allows only two week-night parties per week.
These parties are assigned to houses on a first-come, first-served basis. Rusk and Connor both registered week-night parties before SAE.Rusk
Social Chairman, Nicole Wilcox, regrets the situation. “We had no idea SAE would not be allowed to have a party
if we had our lock-in. We weren’t trying to compete with them; we just thought we’d both be allowed to
have parties.” Senior SAE, Jim Shumadine, says, “It’s really sad that we can’t continue a tradition that started in the
mid-1800s. We’ve always had a party on this night, even before there was ‘Halloween.’” Regardless, most Davidson students have not
decided what they will dress up as or if they will even go out. Junior Javier Salazar says, “I may
just throw on the afro wig [that I wore to Tacky Party] and head for Chapel Hill.” Freshman Abigail Bergsma
states, “I’m not planning to go out, but I probably will.”

“Ghosts, power and love: from history to storytelling” By Kelly Dixson & Courtney Cooper

Despite the terrible weather, a large number of students, faculty, and guests of the International Hispanic Women Writers Conference attended
the performance of bilingual storyteller Olga Loya and the presentation by Chilean author and literary critic Marjorie Agosin. Both guests
presented important facets of Latin American history, yet their styles were unique. Loya began the program with a personal story
called “True Love,” which told the story of the love affair between her immigrant grandparents. Loya’s style of storytelling in
both English and Spanish, seemingly at the same time, made her presentation intriguing. The next story, a personal favorite, gave
an interesting twist to one of Mexico’s most familiar figures, La Malinche. Historians have traditionally portrayed her as a traitor
to the Indians; however, Loya represented her as a “cultural scapegoat” who was in the wrong place at the wrong
time. In the next story, “La mujer hambrienta,” Loya successfully captivated the entire audience, inspiring audience participation. Loya then interpreted
a traditional folktale and a Latin American legend. She closed her portion of the program with a fable, the moral
being to recognize the gifts you have that make you special.

Agosin began by giving a brief lesson in Chilean history involving the Pinochet dictatorship, during which thousands of protesters simply
disappeared. She continued evoking the audience’s emotions by describing the women left behind and their attempts to express themselves in
a censored society. Agosin’s presentation included slides of the arpilleras, a folk art in which scraps of material gathered by
them or donated by the Church are cut and sewn together to produce a tapestry which symbolically tells a story.
The idea behind creating these lasting artworks centers around the belief that “a country with a memory is a country
full of ghosts that will come to haunt us.” Therefore, the memory of the disappeared lives on in these arpilleras.
Some arpilleras from Agosin’s personal collection were displayed that evening in the Wilson Room, and Professor Cecilia Montero donated an
arpillera from Peru to be raffled off.

Thanks to a grant by the North Carolina Humanities Council and the efforts of Drs. Mafz-Peña and Peña, Sonya Kapoor,
Katherine Ross, and a devoted group of students, the program was a huge success.

Poet Susan Ludvigson to read Thursday By Rachel Newcomb

On Thursday, November 3 at 7:30 p.m. poet Susan Ludvigson will give a reading in the Big Screen Room of
the College Union. A professor of English and poet-in-residence at Winthrop University in Rock Hill, South Carolina, Ludvigson is the
author of five books of poetry and two chapbooks. Her books include Everything Winged Must Be Dreaming, To Find the
Gold, and The Beautiful Noon of No Shadow. She has published extensively in numerous journals, including Nation, Poetry, and The
Southern Review. She is a past recipient of a Writer’s Fulbright to Yugoslavia as well as fellowships from the Guggenheim
Foundation, the Rockefeller Foundation, and the National Endowment for the Arts. Susan Ludvigson will read her work on Thursday.
