THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

VAX Scandal

Computer services officials declare electronic chain letters illegal.

By Jeff Fuller

Chain letters distributed through the VAX are officially recognized as illegal at Davidson. Operators of Apollo, the academic host computer known as the VAX, have recently taken measures to prevent the circulation of chain letters. A warning forbidding chain letters was placed on the introductory scroll which appears whenever users “log in” to the computer. The warning states that distributing chain letters is in violation of the user agreement which must be signed before opening a VAX account.

Computer chain letters, like chain letters often sent through the mail, request the recipient to send a letter on to a specified number of addresses. E-mail facilitates the circulation of chain letters because it is quick and cost-free. Unlike many chain letters, none of those on the VAX are known to have asked for money. However quick and cost-free the chain letters may be, they still create problems within the system, according to Marc Overcash, the Help Desk Manager at the Computer Services Center.

Overcash, who finds chain letters “infuriating,” also remarks on the length of the chain letters. He explains that the headers on the letters increase in size every time the chain letter is forwarded. When forwarded into an account, the large chain letters have the ability to damage one’s account if the letter takes up too much space. The long letters also jam up the “Internet highway.” Dan Duncan, who works as a student assistant and at the help desk in the computer lab, says “the problem is when a letter like that is forwarded, it gums up the works.”

Internet, a worldwide computer information network, links hundreds and thousands of “domains” which can be governmental, commercial, or educational. When large chain letters are sent through the system, services can be disrupted. Geoff Nash, Systems Programmer, says that “opportunity cost” is lost when large letters interfere with the network and slow it down. Since chain letters are in violation of the policy statement, distributors of chain letters now risk the loss of their accounts if caught. Overcash notes that chain letters are “not only illegal at Davidson, some other networks say chain letters are illegal.”

The discovery of one of the chain letters came to Nash’s attention when he was telephoned by a person at Indiana University who complained of a chain letter which originated at Davidson. The only way the chain letter senders can be caught is if someone complains to the computer center or if the letter is sent to one of the people who work at the center. Although students are warned about what they send through the VAX, the computer center workers assure students that no one will search their accounts for chain letters. “We have better things to do than look through people’s mail,” states Overcash. He says only two or three people who actually run the system itself have the ability to read mail. Nash, one of these people, declares “I have never looked in an account; we have so many important things to do, we don’t have time for a witch hunt.”

Although Overcash is overjoyed with the demise of the chain letters at Davidson, he admits that some letters have been “rather humorous,” pointing to one letter which threatened disastrous events to those who did not distribute copies as instructed. Duncan refers to another “interesting” letter which described “how to boost your sex life.” They suspect some students, at least, will lament the loss of the chain letter.

“The majority of the busy-work has been done”

Eric continued from page 2

more progressive in things and open-minded and have better ideals of inclusiveness. The way to do this is working on things like the Statement of Purpose and the statement about Trustees as active members of the Christian church, but still maintain the general theme that Davidson is associated with the Christian church, obviously affiliated with the Presbyterian Church and that still plays a strong role, but you have to be careful that that isn’t so strong that it is going to exclude people that would contribute to the Davidson community and you do this by the hostOf reforms introduced by the SGA and now under examination by the Trustees is a good way to start with that. Other ways to continue in that progressive direction are items such as co-ed dorms, which I think should be legislated but as an option where freshmen have the choice. Some people with strong Christian ideals might find it conflicting with their beliefs, so offering it as an option would ensure progressive reform. Reforms that bring the two sexes together for more positive interaction, and along with that, more positive interaction between minority students, students of different religious affiliations, and the majority of students.

"Another way to legislate progressive reform, and this may be one of the most important things, is to narrow the gap between the Trustees, who embody the former ideals of a strong Christian stance, and bring them closer to the students and faculty who have a more progressive mindset. I have some very good ideas on how to do this. I’ve done a little bit of research and called Davidson alumni. The 'young Trustee program,' where students from the student body would have more active input with the Trustees, is an obvious need and seems feasible. I think I would have the courage to stand up to Trustees who usually seem to be— not to bad-mouth the Trustees— less receptive to student opinion. The only person who can typically give student opinion in a policy-making situation is the SGA president. The SGA president has to have the courage to do that. With these types of reforms, with a young Trustee program, students would have more involvement with the Trustees who maintain the more conservative status quo and less progressivism."

Tied to that but a little more specific is—what is your stand on the proposed changes to the Statement of Purpose and the policy requiring that Trustees are Christian? If elected, how would you address these issues?

"I think these are changes that have been necessary at Davidson for a long time, and I am glad that Alden had the courage to take them up. If I were elected president, I guarantee that I would continue to pursue the completion of these reforms. Right now, the Trustees have formed an ad hoc committee to look at the active member of the Christian church stance. The Executive Committee has started to make changes and has actually issued a change for the Statement of Purpose. These things have yet to be completed. One of my major campaign promises will be to continue the pursuit of these things because I feel it is essential for a more whole Davidson community and a better overall campus relationship with the Trustees and the students. Attracting different kinds of students will make Davidson more successful in completing these reforms.

"The majority of the busywork has been done by the past administration. But the toughest thing now is to stand up and not let the Trustees— not to say that the Trustees are going to try to slide something— not let the issues slide by. It’s going to take a strong leader to keep the issues in focus, and I think as president of the SGA, I could keep the vision and what I think the students want for Davidson in focus."

What do you predict will be Davidson’s challenge in 1994?

"I think Davidson’s biggest challenge will be to incorporate the new Dean of Students into the life of Davidson. I would like to see the new Dean of Students be an advocate for the students, someone who is not afraid of standing up for the students’ rights and needs. And someone who, like Dean Terry, has been very personal with everyone and knows so many people on a personal basis and can maintain a good personal relationship with everyone. More than the Dean of Students itself, is the whole idea of the Davidson hierarchy, so to speak, with the Trustees, the faculty, and the administration. There’s definitely a gap between the students and the faculty, which I would like to fix so that academic matters aren’t the only relationship that the students have with them. The relationship with the students and the administration, embodied in the Dean of Students, would be closer. Then the gap between the students and the Trustees is also closed with the reforms that I have mentioned. There is a gap, and it gets continually larger as you go up. I think by starting at the bottom with the faculty and the new Dean of Students, we can bridge that gap. Then we can eventually work our way up to the Trustees and work for the betterment of the entire society."