RIS & LIVING MONDAY, APRIL 25, 1994

Some summer shows worth waiting for

After eight months and twenty articles, my journalistic year has come to a close. As much as I’d hoped to keep my column within the boundaries of an arts review, I’m afraid I’ve waxed a little philosophical from time to time. I apologize, but music, especially country, is such a phenomenon, that I think we have to practice a little layman’s philosophy in order to put a finger on it. Like love or laughter, we really can’t explain why music touches us so deeply. With that in mind, "Still Whistlin’ Dixie" is as much my effort to explain that unexplainable curiosity as it is to let you know what’s out there worth hearing. And considering you’ll be deprived of my sage advice for upwards of three months, I thought I'd leave you with a little wisdom and guidance for the long, hot summer ahead.

As far as tours to look for, Alan Jackson, Hal Ketchum, and Dwight Yoakam will probably be the hottest tickets of the summer. If I had to choose, I think I’d take Dwight, but I’ll probably just starve for a week so I can save up for all three. Steve Earle recently released a greatest hits album, so if we’re lucky, he might take to the tour bus again. In a similar vein, keep a look out for David Allan Coe. He’s always playing somewhere. Rumor has it, Radney Foster is on the road again, so if you hear anything more, let me know. I’d sell my guitar to see him play. Finally, Patty Loveless is out there somewhere. If you get the chance to see her, seize it. I’ve never been to a show, but with that repertoire, she couldn’t let you down.

With your entertainment taken care of, there’s really nothing left for me to offer but a few, brief words of advice from some of the wisest lines in Country music:

“So, tell that someone that you love / Just what you’re thinking of / If tomorrow never comes”—Garth Brooks

“Now there’s alwaysFine arts appreciation and support in the surrounding community. Outreach events Adelaide McKelway helped to bring composer Milton Babbitt, pianist Dubravka Tomsic, and abstract painter Kenneth Noland to Davidson this year. At the Pines, an annual Home and Garden Tour, and bringing school children to campus for open rehearsals are all part of Friends’ agenda of arts education. With an advisory board of twenty-one members, serving as a structural base, and a steadily expanding group of members in North Mecklenburg and South Iredell counties, and from Davidson alumni, Friends has successfully gathered together what McKelway describes as “people who care about arts.” In a recent interview, McKelway described that one of her current chief concerns with regard to Friends “is somehow to increase student membership.” Collegiate participation aside, it seems as if she is very pleased with the organization’s progress as a fulfillment of her dream. “It has been really wonderful to have the chance to do this,” remarked McKelway. “It’s great when you can take an idea and let it come true.” Undoubtedly, McKelway’s dream has had a profound effect upon the entire Davidson community.

One Acts amuse, astound
By Jacob Abraham

The 1994 Studio Theatre Productions have certainly not had a problem drawing crowds. On the first night of Chamber Music and Zoo Story, playgoers packed not only the seats but the steps and aisles of the Black Box Theatre, and several students were turned away when not even standing room remained. The Studio Theatre Season consists of a wide variety of one-act plays written by influential and significant modern playwrights. Aside from faculty supervision, the performances are entirely the work of students. The one-act format lends itself to experimental and unconventional subject matter which can be somewhat inaccessible to the audience. Nevertheless, the plays of the last two weeks have succeeded in showcasing some remarkable student talent.

Like some of Arthur Kopit’s other plays, the aim of Chamber Music is to make the audience react emotionally to an illogical series of events. Set in a psychiatric ward, the play focuses on a self-proclaimed committee of eight female patients who are convinced that the men’s ward of the hospital is planning to attack them. Through a bizarre twist of logic, the women concoct a scheme to scare away the men; they will kill one of their own to show the men what they are capable of. Interestingly, the woman picked to die seems to be the most rational of the crazed women. Perhaps Kopit is trying to make some point about female relationships, or the Feminist movement, or women’s attitude towards men and the outside world. If the play has a point at all, it is obscured by the Absurdist conventions employed by Kopit in this and some of his other plays. Fortunately, the subtle humor contained in the irrational dialogue of the characters manages to carry the play and makes the murder scene all the more striking and terrifying. The characters are pure neurotics who are difficult (if not impossible) to analyze or identify with. With so little to hold on to in terms of characterization, some of the actresses fall short and come across to viewers as simply annoying on stage. Others, particularly Laura J. Seib, Jennifer Don, Katherine Harrison, and Allison Wright, manage to make their characters distinct and even likable in spite of (or perhaps as a result of) their insanity.

Edward Albee’s brilliant The Zoo Story features two of the most striking stage performances of the year from Robert Ramsay and Frank Jernigan. Part of the play’s ingenuity lies in the simplicity of the situation. Peter, a mousy little book publisher with a regular family and a regular lifestyle, is reading a book on a bench in Central Park at his regular time in the week, when a thoroughly irregular passerby strikes up a conversation with him. The passerby who practically forces Peter to talk with him is Jerry, a very lonely man whose insanity is balanced only by his acute awareness and sensitivity. Jerry’s dialogue reveals his understandably disturbed lifestyle and his unique way of looking at things. He needs more than anything to connect somehow with something, whether it’s a person or an animal or just an object, whether it’s

See Act on page 15