16 THE DAVIDSONIAN

As he begins his tenure as the new dean of students, Tom Shandley shares his thoughts and concerns with The Davidsonian.

You were the head dean of students at Rhodes College. You had made a name for yourself as an advocate for the development of student leadership. You helped design a popular multi-million dollar campus life center. You earned the respect of your colleagues and students. Why would you leave all of that for Davidson?

You know it is funny: Leigh, the other day, I was talking to the R.A.s and hall counselors. One of the less bashful stood up and he said, “Why did you leave Rhodes? Why did you take this job?” I said there were two things really. One, I wasn’t looking to leave, and that is important to know. It was a very good job and in this job your agenda is never finished. There is always something to do. Quite honestly the only place I could imagine leaving Rhodes for was Davidson. And I knew that from the time I knew about Davidson.

Why Davidson?

Quite honestly, and I said this in my interview but it is the absolute truth, I think it blends a lot of interests on my part, and in terms of institution, I prefer to stay in the South, I prefer to stay in small private colleges, and I want to be the dean of students. And this is the best in all those categories. I want to make it better with whatever I can do. It is the right size. The location is ideal for my personal interests. I love the mountains. I want my children to grow up in a small town. They are having a great time. I really think that despite the problems, and the campus has those, there is really a nice harmony between the faculty, the administration, and the students. We’re going to have issues to grapple with, but throughout all of that is a real thread of “We’re in this together. We’re proud of Davidson. We truly think it is a special place.” I felt that in the interview. I didn’t know that when I came. But that’s probably got me more excited than anything. I want to be a part of that.

During your interviewing in the spring, you certainly picked up on what big shoes the new dean of students would have to fill. Now that you are here, how has the legend of Dean Terry affected your work?

First of all, Will has been very helpful to me. We've spent some time together. He left me terrific notes. He’s made it very apparent that he’s not going to get in my way, but if I ever need him, he’s there. That’s wonderful. Yes, they are big shoes to fill, and I’ve checked and we have different shoe sizes. We’re different people. I can’t live up to Will or anyone who has been here 23 years. But, I really see that as an asset. I’ve already had, “Well, Will used to do it this way,” or “Dean Terry used to do it this way.” And I appreciate that. At the core he was a very student-oriented dean, and he really cared about students, and in that way we are just alike.

Students will be arriving soon; what will be the most visible change for them with a new dean?

The most visible change? I don’t know. Will used to turn the lights off in here, and I have them on. Let me answer that in a different way. I am going to be very cautious to change things very visibly right away. It is not the right thing to do. For instance, with orientation, I think there...

BACK PAGE INTERVIEW. MONDAY, AUGUST 29, 1994

After her second day of fifth grade at Davidson Elementary, Elizabeth Shandley called her dad at work. She had big news. When in the Dean of Students office, the excited ten-year-old made her announcement. “Daddy, guess what. I am going to play saxophone.”

Tom Shandley laughs as he talks about his recent conversation with his daughter. Proud, the new Davidson dean of students lists his children’s interests and talents. Elizabeth is an athlete and a saxophonist-to-be. His first grader, Joey, loves sports, people, adventure, and freedom. Will, “everything a two-year-old is supposed to be,” gets into everything. Like father, like sons and daughter.

Shandley sits comfortably on the sofa in the slightly rearranged dean of students’ office and talks about himself and his work. Family man and "navy brat" takes over Memphis where he served as the head of Dean of Students for Rhodes College. At Rhodes, Shandley initiated campus-wide leadership programs and assisted in designing a $17.4 million Campus Life Center. In addition, he addressed sensitive issues by establishing a “Standards of Community Responsibility” code of conduct to combat sexual harassment and assault as well as programs in multiculturalism and substance abuse.

Having moved from place to place when he was young, Shandley still calls the South home. He set his goal to be a dean of students when he was in college at Simpson College in Indianola, Iowa. With a master's in student personnel from Bowling Green State University, he returned to the South for his first job as director of student activities at the University of South Carolina. Later, he says he “slipped back up to the north”...will be some changes, but I want to look at it first before I assume there need to be changes. I am very much wanting to look at every aspect of it and sit down—when it’s over—with students, faculty, staff, and everyone who is involved with it and say, “What do we need to do differently?” And I think that’s what we need to do, particularly this year, with a lot of things rather than have a lot of apparent changes. I think that would be an awful way to start. It is hard. I am not afraid to change things, and I like things to be done well, so it is kind of hard sometimes to pull back that way. But I plan to do the best I can.

R.A.s and hall counselors are expressing concern with what appears to be a strengthened alcohol policy. Briefly, what is your expectation of students regarding alcohol?

We didn’t change the alcohol policy at all. They’re just having to enforce it. My expectations of students are pretty simple. We don’t need to spend a lot of time talking about what the law is. Everybody knows that, even what the Davidson alcohol policy is. I expect most students know that. I think what is important is that students, particularly those who are under the age of 21, if you want us to treat you as adults, then take responsibilities for your choices of behavior. That means if you choose to drink and you get caught, then that’s the way the world is. We are obliged to do that. We don’t really have a choice. That’s not where I want to focus my energies. I think, and this is what was said to the hall counselors, this is not just a state law anymore. The federal government is putting intense pressures on colleges to "ensure" that there is no illegal consumption of alcohol or drugs. The risk—they’ll take away our federal money. For our students, that is all financial aid that is federal based. I don’t want to take that risk. An awful lot of students depend on that. We’re not going to stop all underage drinking, but we have to do the best we can. I think that is all they can expect. I think this is an issue we will have to struggle and talk about every year. Honestly, my biggest concern are those students who drink way too much. One of the things that frightened me a great deal in hearing about last year is that we had students going to the hospital with alcohol poisoning about every other weekend. That is frightening, if that is true. I know enough to know not only is that an incredibly horrible experience for those students, but also they are not that far from death. It concerns me that we have a community that allows that to happen. And that’s what I said to the hall counselors and R.A.s, I hope that’s where we can focus our energies and try to build a community that cares more than that and keeps that from happening.

BY LEIGH RAWDON

Confident modesty. Like his children, it is clear that he adjusts easily to any environment. He also expresses a quiet enthusiasm about his new home. Clearly, the new dean of students has high hopes and standards for a college he only just encountered but already embraces as his own. Shandley, who has lived and worked in Davidson since July 18, moved with his family from Minnesota to get his Ph.D. in higher education at the University of Minnesota. Again he returned to this region to work at Rhodes in Memphis for the last six years. Finally, he made it to Davidson. When his daughter called the office last week to announce her plans to join the school band, the new dean told her, “You know the President of the United States is a saxophone player, so you have big shoes to fill.” Elizabeth isn’t the only member of the Shandley family stepping into a position with sizable expectations. Following the retirement of the legendary Dean Will Terry, who worked as dean of students at Davidson for 23 years, Shandley faces a challenge to make a place for himself on campus. For the last month, Shandley has started by initiating relationships with his 54-person staff and the faculty. He wants to understand the expectations and occupations of the many different groups on campus that make up the Davidson community before he makes any serious changes.

Just as much as he takes his work with students seriously, Shandley takes his role as father seriously. When asked about his interests beyond the office and the boundaries of campus, Shandley immediately answers, “Most of my spare time, I spend with my family. I really, really focus on that.” An outdoor enthusiast, he enjoys almost any sport—tennis, golf, running, biking. With the mountains and beaches of North Carolina, the Shandley family looks forward to many outdoor excursions. A self-proclaimed “navy brat,” our new dean of students feels he can adapt to and excel in almost any environment. So when his youngest son crawled in the new dean’s lap and said, “Daddy, when are we going home?”, the new dean of students can rest assured that soon Davidson will be what the Shandley family calls home.

Photo by Robert Ramsay