THE DAVIDSONIAN | ARTS & LIVING | MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1994 | 13

Theater Review: Learned Ladies succeeds despite dated script
By Robert Ramsay

In Moliére’s culture, his play "The Learned Ladies" was a biting social parody. Today, at Davidson, it is a little dated. However, Rupert T. Barber, Jr., pulled together a group of actors and directed them with such eptitude that the Hodson Hall production made a fine tribute to the wacky Frenchman. Despite slightly chauvinistic themes and incredibly difficult rhyming couplets, the performance was well-received. Part of the reason for this was Richard Wilbur’s extraordinary translation, Ronnie Higdon’s attractive, easy-access set, and the actors, who all gave solid performances.

The play focuses on a bourgeois French family: father Chrysale (Josh Gaffga), mother Philaminte (Catherine Sauls), older daughter Armande (Laura Seib), and younger daughter Henriette (Sarah Hankins). Armande and Philaminte are similar in that they both enjoy the study of philosophy and science; Henriette takes after her father, who would rather be in the garden than in a library or laboratory. Armande and her mother, along with Bélise (Catherine Rivenbark), an aunt, are so caught up in their intellectual emancipation that they don’t realize they are speaking foolishness. Most of the men in the play spend their time trying to find a way to stand up to them.

The only serious topic of intellectual debate in the play that does not boil down to rhetoric concerns the nature of love. Armande claims that love which shows itself in physical acts is shallow and material; only love founded in philosophy and spirituality can bond two people together. Clitandre (Benjamin Summers), suitor to Henriette, vehemently argues that love is material, but it is this materialism and physicality that makes it so special and so appealing. Seib’s performance makes it obvious that Armande, after Clitandre’s speech on love, does not agree with what she is saying but is too proud to concede. She is so frustratingly in love with her own intelligence that, at the end, you want to see her jump on someone.

The epitome of what Moliére intended to mock is personified by the wit, Trissotin (Andrew Smitherman). He is a shoddy poet, an inept romanticizer, and an arrogant prick. His speech is empty and stale, most of his colorful epigrams stolen from classic writers and rhetoricians. By the final scene, contempt and pity for him have piled up so thick that his departure is almost anticlimactic. He is proven to be a greedy opportunist by Uncle Artiste’s (Matthew Smith) clever letter trick. Once Trissotin is gone, the plot wraps up nicely and predictably with a final quip by Chrysale to his now-subdued wife.

Barber chose the cast exceptionally well. Josh Gaffga was great as the flaccid father and delivered his couplets with delectable normality. Catherine Sauls as Philaminte was hilarious, with a scowl that will haunt your nightmares. Laura Seib, once you got used to the rhythmic two-octave swells in her voice, did a decent job, and positively shone in the recitation scene. When she screams in orgasmic ecstasy, “I’m ravished, quite!” you believe her. Sarah Hankins gave Henriette a simple, down-to-earth attractiveness that was refreshing. There were many other notable performances, including Benjamin Summers’ luminescent Clitandre and Sarah Zogby’s tasty Martine.

Using your head to make a statement
Hairy continued from page 10

All I can say is good luck Josh, your mission is a difficult one, but you seem to have chosen the correct facial accessory.

Marc LaFrance was elated when I told him my findings. He also stated, “Cat, I just want to thank you; this is a very big day indeed for me and my beard. Like all bearded men, I’ve wondered often what the non-bearded life would be like. I was a little worried about the above-the-mouth-and-sides part and thought of shaving, but today I know my beard has arrived! For the first time today I even spent some quality time with my beard combing it!” Other candidates for hip facial hair are Max Hyde and Phil Lisi, who have established that chops need not be on Elvis impersonators to be cool.

On other hair fronts, I cannot finish this article without commenting upon the trend I noticed on this campus earlier last month. Slowly, one by one, the actual...Hair of many men and women began to disappear, sacrificed to the razor gods, with only a few interpretive remnants remaining. This seemingly strange phenomenon at least gave us ways to identify certain individuals, such as the bald library guys, whom everyone seems to know but whose names remain a mystery to us all. Alas, my lack of acquaintance with that establishment of academic pursuit and social life at Davidson has hurt my art, for I was unable to find these library guys. Some people may have asked, was this bald-headed move a political anti-establishment statement transferred into fashion? To this, Brian Parrish, a fuzzy-headed veteran of the razor, responds, “I just woke up one Saturday morning and decided to do it. I always wanted to know what my head looked like, and I decided to be introduced to it; and that about covers it, unless you have any questions you want to analyze it.” I thought about it, and then remembered the absolute non-meaning requirement in the fashion article rulebook of writing and reluctantly, yet happily, declined.

THE SCENE

ART
All this week, catch the two exhibits in the VAC Art Galleries—the Daniel Sutherland Exhibition, entitled “Resulting Empty Wish,” and the Glen Dasher sculpture exhibit. See the story in this issue. You might want to check out John Borden Evans’s latest exhibit at the Christa Faut gallery. He’s a Davidson alumnus. Also, senior studio major Chris Wyrick is exhibiting his self-portraits in the Union gallery.

MOVIES/THEATER
The Crying Game will be shown on Wed, Oct. 26 at 9:30 p.m. Schindler’s List will be shown at 8 on Friday in the 900 Room.

MUSIC
Vivian Montgomery, prize-winning harpsichordist, will present early music as well as a piece by her husband, composer John Morrison, ‘79. This will take place in the VAC Atrium at 8:00 on Tuesday.

SPEAKERS/MISCELLANEOUS
Dr. Robert Barrett will speak on Tuesday, Oct. 25 for an HIV/AIDS lecture and discussion at 1:00 p.m. in Chambers 226. Come to the Tuesday morning Coffeehouse and if you’re lucky enough to be of age, attend exclusive 21-Year-Old Night in the Union on Tuesday night. John Fletcher will lecture on “The Baby K Case: A Study in Futility” in the Chambers Gallery at 4:30 p.m. on Wednesday. This is sponsored by Medical Humanities.

YEARBOOK PHOTOS will be taken Wednesday and Thursday from 10-6 in the Big Screen Room. Bill Frelick, senior policy analyst with the U.S. Committee for Refugees, will speak on the worldwide refugee crisis on Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Sponsored by Dean Rusk. Take advantage of all there is to do.

Inter-Study Representative
Meeting with representative from Inter-Study, which places students at universities in Britain, Ireland, and Belgium. Friday, Big Screen Room, 10-11:30 a.m. For information on Butler University Institute for Study Abroad, come to the Big Screen Room from 2-3 of the same day.

Jumpin’ Java Cafe
Every Saturday from 2-6 you can come to the Outpost, hang out with friends, bring your instrument for jam sessions, play Scrabble, and eat really good food—brie, French bread, fruit, cookies... You might want to bring a dollar or two for donation so that we can continue to have this wonderful event.

Ken Kedem, who was involved in the filming of Steven Spielberg’s “Schindler’s List,” will speak in the 900 Room on Sunday, Oct. 30 at 7:00 p.m. Any events for the calendar? Call Rachel (-2148).

Majors in the show were Catherine Rivenbark and Andrew Smitherman. Rivenbark, as Bélise, had a face that you wanted to slap senseless and then, a second later, record to show at birthday parties. And Smitherman’s Trissotin was such a bundle of high-browed social contempt and condescension that all you could do was laugh until you lost bladder control. The poetry recitation he gives was, hands down, the highlight of the show, and the rhetorical exchange between Trissotin and Vadius (Patrick Brown) was good, too. Ultimately, the biggest kudos must go to Barber, who set sail on a stormy sea by picking up Moliére's script, but, in the end, did not sink.

Are you a cultured person? Do you want to be? Write for Arts! Call Rachel -2148.

John Borden Evans, a 1979 Davidson graduate, at his Red Hill Exhibition. Oct. 14 - Nov. 14

Nails By Lisa
Located Inside Hair World
- Full Set (acrylics, gels) $40.00
- Fill In (1 broke nail w/fill in) $15.00
- Broke Nail (each) $4.00
- Buff & Polish $4.00
- Manicures $12.00
- Pedicures $20.00
10% OFF WITH COLLEGE I.D.
892-1332 / 664-5732