6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1994

This Week in Washington

Clinton suffers defeat on health care
By Andrea Short

President and Mrs. Clinton’s most visible issue, government-controlled health care, died this week in Congress. Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, who declined Clinton’s offer of a Supreme Court seat, expressed regret over the stalemate. Health care proponents are already planning legislative strategy for the next Congress. Experts cite two major points that hurt the legislation’s chances: mandatory buying alliances and requiring employers to pay their employees’ health insurance.

The strategy for passing health care legislation in the next Congressional session relies on paring down the bill considerably. Hillary Rodham Clinton met with advisors this week to discuss how to best package the legislation: Children, rather than universal coverage, may headline the calls for reform next year. Congressional members and experts have also indicated that a plan born within Congress, rather than a “Clinton Plan,” will have a better chance of survival. Distancing himself from any specific legislation would also mitigate the political costs if reform fails to happen. Clinton has already suffered in the polls, and this defeat may hurt Democrats running for reelection this November. Washington expects a more conservative crowd will convene for the next Congress, possibly making health care reform even more difficult.

Proponents may introduce health care as a fiscal, rather than social welfare, issue; this approach would garner more support as a deficit-reducing issue than as one proposing government growth. The administration’s agenda will include welfare reform, deficit reduction, and national investment as well as the revised health care plan.

Health care reform sparked heavily partisan politics in Congress. Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole led the Republican attack, claiming that the American people did not want Congress to adopt legislation without thoughtful debate and planning. Dole butted heads with New England Democratic Senators Mitchell and Kennedy. Mitchell denounced Republicans and interest groups that opposed health care, saying that they had selfishly failed the American people. Even though health care reform will return to the table next year, the Democrats will lose Mitchell, the Democratic ring-leader, when he retires after this term. Kennedy faces his toughest election yet this November, prompting many to predict the Democrats will lose the long-time health care proponent.

As the curtain falls on health care and this Congress, party bickering continues. House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt pointed his finger at the Republicans; “With very few exceptions, RepublicansNovember when they visit the polls.

The Dean Rusk Program

Bosnia headed for a cold winter as West watches

By Graham Ernst

Last Tuesday, Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic agreed to delay his request to the United Nations for an end to the three-year-old international arms embargo on the former Yugoslavian republics. Unfortunately for Bosnia, this concession comes as Serbian forces tighten their stranglehold on Sarajevo by closing the capital’s only access road, shutting off all running water and electricity, and threatening to shoot down any relief planes.

Izetbegovic’s lack of support in the UN Security Council was the primary reason for the delay of his proposal, which would supply his government with arms to fight back against the well-equipped Serbs. Great Britain and France, who both have troops serving in Bosnia-Herzegovina as UN peacekeepers, refused to support lifting the arms embargo fearing that such action would escalate the conflict. President Clinton, feeling pressure from the Senate to lift the embargo, and Russian President Boris Yeltsin, knowing that right-wing factions in Russia are still allied with Serbia, could not agree on a future policy for Bosnia last week during their summit in Washington.

Because Serbian President Milosevic controlled the military when the civil war broke out during the summer of 1991, Yugoslavia’s military resources were allocated to Serb forces, giving them a great advantage over their ethnic enemies. As a result, lifting the arms embargo would allow the Bosnians, Croats, and Muslims to better defend themselves in this one-sided war.

To this point, the UN has proven to be ineffective in bringing about a settlement to this conflict. Resolution 46/242 called for a peaceful resolution to the conflict in August of 1992, and Resolution 1992/S-2/1 denounced and called for an end to Serbian human rights abuses and ethnic cleansing. However, these “calls” have fallen upon deaf ears as UN troops have made almost no progress to these ends. Also, Sarajevo and Gorazde had already been destroyed by the time the UN designated “safe zones” around these cities.

The West has also been less than helpful in resolving this conflict. Despite NATO’s continued threats to take action against Serbs if peace accords were not followed, Serb forces have only lost a couple of fighters and one unmanned tank to skirmishes with NATO.

The conflict in former Yugoslavia has roots dating back to Nazi and Communist factions in this region prior to WWII. The Roman Catholic Croats, Sunni Muslims, and Eastern Orthodox Serbs differ in religion, language, tradition, and culture. As the international community struggles to agree on a policy for Bosnia-Herzegovina, it becomes apparent that there will not be peace until the warring factions come to a common agreement based on their own interests of self-determination and demographic sovereignty.

Sources include: 9-28-94, 9-27-94, 9-26-94, 8-2-94, 4-19-94, 4-17-94, 2-17-94 issues of The New York Times; 5-17-93 edition of U.S. News and World Report; 9-21-92 edition of The New Republic; 7-16-94 edition of The Economist; U.S. State Department Dispatch on 8-9-93, 1-18-93, Sept 1992; 7-28-93 edition of Current Digest of the Post-Soviet Press; 3-19-93 edition of New Statesman and Society; Sept-Oct edition of Migration World Magazine; 6-21-92 edition of Moscow News; May 1994 edition of Contemporary Review.

It’s never too late to join the newspaper staff.

$5 OFF Any Two Dinner Entrees
With this coupon only
Present before ordering
Not valid w/ any other offers
Expires 9/30/94

Nightly Dinner Specials
Wine Specialties
Great Atmosphere
Great Music
Call 2148