MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1994 4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

The Black Student Coalition

Many Davidson students shy away from participating in activities sponsored by the Black Student Coalition. But according to BSC president, sophomore Amia Canada, “everyone is welcome” at the house.

What is the BSC about?

The members of the Black Student Coalition participate in activities much like other houses on the Court. But along with functioning as a social group, they try to emphasize learning about black heritage and culture. However, Canada stresses that visitors to the BSC house will not be inundated with lessons about black issues. She says, “Yes, you may see a painting of Martin Luther King, but we’re not going to shoot you with the black stuff.”

The BSC sponsors events such as the storytelling series last semester, which drew numerous students, faculty, and people from the community. The house also holds several parties a semester and co-sponsors parties with fraternities and eating houses.

Unlike eating houses and fraternities, BSC members do not eat at the house for regular meals. But like fraternities and eating houses, they have an SGA senator. Members are encouraged to participate in community service projects, such as Big Sister and Big Brother programs, and tutoring at the Ada Jenkins Center. The house is also trying to adopt an elderly person to bring to dinners.

Who belongs to the BSC?

BSC members can belong to another house, as well as the BSC. Any student is eligible to join the house, and dues are only ten dollars per year. In order to avoid scheduling conflicts, meetings are held on every other Sunday. Canada estimates that the BSC has about 30 members, five of whom are not black. Contrary to what people may think, not all black students belong to the BSC.

Sophomore Jennifer Tracy joined the house in the fall and feels that she has learned from participating in BSC activities. She says, “You get something different than from an eating house ... people look at it as a club, but it’s more than that.”

Tracy feels that other students may be confused about the BSC and its purpose. “Maybe people are intimidated to learn more about it.”

What is the house like?

The BSC prides itself in keeping a clean house. Colorful paintings adorn the walls and curtains hang from the windows. Canada feels that coming to the house is a “relief for a lot of people. We have a clean atmosphere; people come here to relax.” A big-screen TV and a pool table add to the pleasant atmosphere at the house. Canada says that professors and staff often come and play pool.

What are the parties like?

When the BSC sponsors a party in their house, they do not serve alcohol. Because of this fact, it is difficult to draw people to the party when other houses are serving beer. The BSC usually hires a DJ. Canada feels that people enjoy the good music and a less crowded, and therefore safer house. She also says that, “if people are comfortable with themselves, then they should feel comfortable enough to come to our parties. If we didn’t want you down here, you wouldn’t be invited.”

The house often co-sponsors parties with other houses. However, they do not serve alcohol at these events either. Instead, they try to fund the alternative snacks and drinks, as well as the music. According to Canada, when the house co-sponsors a party, it is usually held at the other house, so that alcohol can be served.

What will the BSC do in the future?

Canada says that the house hopes to hold more multi-cultural opportunities for everyone. Upcoming events will include fraternities and sororities from UNCC, Johnson C. Smith University, North Carolina A&T, and Winthrop.

Also in the works is a “Mr. GQ pageant” for the end of April. Each house and fraternity will nominate two men for the pageant, and professors will serve as judges. Canada says that the pageant is “serious,” and will have the men competing in various categories.Not pay for the alco- Union promises Midwinters

By Katherine Hash

© The Union Social Board will drag students out of winter hibernation this weekend with a host of parties and activities for Midwinters ‘94, “Davidson on Ice.” The second of Davidson’s three all-campus date weekends will begin with a pre-Samples Friday Afternoon Club at the Union Outpost from 4-6 p.m. Students can relax to the sounds of the live entertainment provided by John Seebach and David Tweedie and enjoy free food and beverages compliments of the Union.

The party will move to Love Auditorium Friday night where the Samples will play at 9 p.m. The Outpost will again be the scene of food and entertainment when it opens on Saturday from 2-5 p.m. for a free taco bar and acoustical music by Les Moore. Buses will transport students to a mystery destination to entertain them from 5:30-10 p.m. Saturday evening. Interested students should sign up ahead of time at the Union desk, meet at the Union at 5:30 Saturday afternoon, and bring $6 with them. The buses will be back at Davidson in time for parties in the Union or on the court.

The campus-wide Midwinters Semi-Formal Dance, “Dancing on Ice,” will be at 10 p.m. in the 900 Room. All students are invited to celebrate with music by student DJs, refreshments, and alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages. The dance is being co-sponsored by the Union Social Board, the SGA, and the Dean of Students Office.

Davidson's Black History Month February continued from page 1

Males on February 10 at 7:00 p.m. in the 900 Room. He will also offer recommendations on ways to combat this problem. Kunjufu is a consultant on this subject for schools, including the Charlotte-Mecklenburg school system, and other institutions around the country. Dr. Mario Azevedo will speak on February 15 at 7:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room on Africa’s role in the African Slave Trade, a topic on which few are knowledgeable.

Other events that will occur during the month are: two showings of the movie “Boyz-n-the-Hood,” a poetry and dance extravaganza, and an ethnic food study break.

SPRING ANNOUNCEMENT

6 weeks

Two Confidential Support Groups at the Student Counseling Center:
1. Survivors of sexual assault, abuse, rape, or date rape. First meeting: Thursday, Feb. 3rd, 7:30-8:30 p.m.
2. Students who are struggling with issues surrounding food and body image. 8:00 p.m.-8:55 p.m., Feb. 7th

Please call Christine Davidson for more information x 2451

Programs next year, covering different ethnic backgrounds. Also, one BSC member, sophomore Cara Finley, is getting involved in the NAACP, and Canada hopes that she will “bring that back to us, so that we can get involved too.”

The BSC has several different fundraisers planned for the more immediate future. They will be having a balloon sale for Valentine’s Day. The house is also planning a step show for either the first or second week in April. The show will participate in casual, swimsuit, and formal competition. They will also have to answer questions, much like in female beauty pageants. Right now, the BSC is trying to get clothes donated for the event. Half of the proceeds will be donated to a non-profit organization.

How do you join? Interested people should contact a BSC board member or simply attend a meeting. Canada says, “Come down and see that we’re people on this campus. Our door is open.”

Earn up to $185.00 a month by donating life-saving plasma!

M-Th 6:30AM-9PM
Fri 6:30AM-8PM
Sat 7:30AM-6PM
Sun 9:00AM-6PM

You can "bank" on us in 1994 to provide you with extra $$$. Visit our friendly, modern center and you will automatically become eligible for $400.00 in cash & prizes awarded weekly. You can bank on us!

Alliance “people helping people”

Up To $30.00 On Your First Donation - State ID Required
(704) 333-0335
1511 Central Ave.
Charlotte, NC 28205

If You Missed the Cooking at BACON AND EGGS Come See the Old Gang at...

Chat & Chew
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, NC — 664-4665
Open Monday-Sunday 5:00 am to 11:00 pm

WELCOME DAVIDSON COLLEGE!