OPINIONS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1994

Rosie Molinary learned in retrospect. The most tragic lesson is one Saturdays were my favorite. We'd sit in the game room of his house, and I’d watch college football while he put together model airplanes. Later, we would learn that airplanes weren’t as magical as we once thought. I was 16 then—an age where teenage girls are difficult, if not close to impossible. I was no different. My parents seemed incredibly protective and strict and I felt incredibly grown-up and mature. My saving grace in those years was Michael’s house. His parents became my own, and soon I was the third child, joining in on family vacations, dinners, and church services. I knew the family stories as well as the boys. The parents were young loves; they married, moved into a trailer, and struggled to make ends meet. He hitchhiked to work and school and she skipped lunch because they couldn’t afford it. Every few weeks, the typewriter would be pawned for groceries until they could afford to buy it back. Years passed by, and still madly in love, they began a family and eventually moved up in the world. He became the chief of the Internal Revenue Service’s Criminal Intelligence Division in Columbia and she became the executive secretary to the president of the premier bank. After his retirement, he became a contractor. 

In the following years, I kept in touch with them—never to the extent of my high school years when I so desperately appreciated their parenting of me, but what I felt was enough: cards at anniversaries, birthdays, and holidays, and an occasional phone call when I was feeling especially reminiscent. It was a Saturday that it happened. Saturdays were still my favorite days. On Sunday, the phone rang and my sister whispered to me that they had died in the plane crash in Charlotte, Flight 1016. I hung up, abruptly. I wandered aimlessly, struggling to understand what had happened, how these two people, my other parents, could have died. The phone call that followed was out of some distorted nightmare. He told me how he found out from the evening news; they were only flying away for the night. The funeral would be near the end of the week; the investigators needed time to identify the bodies. I walked around the next few days in a strange trance. My parents called and asked me to come home, and all I could do was mumble that I was alright; to my mother, a million-dollar deception. 

When you are kind, solely for the worth of compassion, you shall prosper in the most appropriate and beautiful way. I learned in those years that simply being a good person had its merit; people who were kind and compassionate did not always receive an ugly piece of life. I learned that love could be an incredible force and that happiness was a state of mind rather than a state of life. And when the time came for Michael and I to move on, as many first loves must do, I did so knowing that I had been blessed with valuable lessons from both him and his parents.

Tony Tuntasit

Dating and the Ideal

Dating used to be quite simpler in the old days. At seven, I had my first date on the bus when Laura Veighte and her pig-tailed auburn hair sat down next to me and proceeded to gross me out by smiling at me. We were alone (in the seat at least), in close proximity to each other (bus seats are small), and made trivial banter (Move over! No, make me!). And then, she was my girlfriend for the next 27 minutes, or at least that’s what my friends told me. Here at Davidson, dating and relationships are significantly trickier. A comment about relationships I remember hearing as a freshman was that “most people at Davidson are either married or terribly single,” to which I shrugged and proceeded to repress that thought into the back of my mind. I had envisioned a dating pattern similar to those I had seen on T.V. shows like the now-defunct “Class of ’96”:

GUY: Could you tell me where my Advanced Polymerization Techniques freshman colloquium is?
GAL #1: Oooh, are you in that class? I think a guy who knows something about advanced polymerization techniques is terribly sexy.
GAL #2: Me too. I especially love men who know their Bohr’s Theorem.
GUY: Ladies, please. I’m gonna be late.

I think my misconception about college dating comes from my cousin Tom, who once told me, “Tony, there comes a time where a woman wants a man not for his body, but rather for his mind.” Little did I realize that Tom, as successful as he is as a biochemist, is a situational bachelor (not by choice), owns several fish, and has an affinity for the telecommunications industries. I think that the problem that people have at Davidson is their inability to strike up conversation with members.of the opposite sex. Perhaps they lack that clever introduction that can possibly lead to more conversation, an exchange of dorm locations, and a small private ceremony on an island off Uganda. Here are some suggestions: At the library, a guy can walk up to a girl reading Tolstoy and say, “Hey, whatcha doing? You reading that crazy Tolstoy guy?” Perhaps in the classroom, a guy can approach a girl reviewing her notes.

See 27 min. on page 9

Jeff Kent

The funeral was on a perfect summer day. “Amazing Grace” and two hearses riding through the streets of Columbia side by side still flash in my memory. There was a hitchhiker on the road, and I remember wondering if his tale was like theirs. I rode home afterwards, my parents' grown child suddenly young again, and gently thanked them for all they had done and apologized for all that I had failed to do. The sunset that night was beautiful as I drove back to North Carolina; two birds flying side by side moved me to tears. Months later, I still do not understand why two young men were abruptly left as orphans. I don’t understand why it took a tragedy to make me apologize to my parents for my difficult times or why I didn’t express my love to all four of them—his parents and my own—more openly. I don’t understand why I haven’t stopped shaking when I hear the mention of an airplane or why I can’t go home to Columbia without feeling a wave of melancholy, nausea, or fear overwhelm me. What I do understand is simple. When you love, you express it. When you are thankful, you acknowledge it. When you appreciate, you identify it. When you are wrong, you admit it. When you are fortunate, you remember it. When you are kind, solely for the worth of compassion—as they both were—you shall prosper in the most appropriate and beautiful way. It shouldn’t take a tragedy to learn.

The Amputation Diet Plan

Forcing a community to act like one does not foster solidarity

By the time this article is published, we will have experienced our first “Fall Festival.” I suppose that the ideals behind this wild and crazy event may appear fairly noble. The approach to and eventual goal of this event, however, remain impractical and unfair. Sure, it would be great if everyone on campus got along like one big, happy family, but why should this goal take precedence over every other social organization already in place? What makes this little shindig so special that it should prevent other organizations from carrying on their normal activities? This type of dictation is not only unfair but unrealistic. You cannot force people into complete, undivided social harmony. People naturally form themselves into groups so they can focus their free time on the people whose company they enjoy the most. These divisions do not mean that we are intolerant but merely that we show preferences in whom we choose as friends. You cannot simply throw everyone into a room and say, “Get along now; this is an all-campus festival.” What do they expect, the entire student body of Davidson standing on top of a hill somewhere, holding hands and singing “I’d like to buy the world a Coke!?”

Perhaps the reason I am most upset about this weekend lies in that there will be no KA parties. I had no idea until Nick Troiano’s comments in last week’s Davidsonian that KA “provides much of the total social activity for the entire school.” I cannot imagine what I have been doing for the last two years that I am just now finding that out. Unfortunately, these social goliaths will be shut down this weekend, along with every other fraternity and eating house because of the “Fall Festival.” Without a KA fiesta this weekend, what will we do for fun? To greatly improve the “Fall Festival,” I suggest that the SGA co-sponsor it with KA. This way, every last student will be dying to attend. We could still enjoy the regatta and the day at the lake. Then, at night, there could be an all-campus/KA blowout where the band is instructed only to play “YMCA,” “ABC,” and “Macho Man” (plus a few assorted trendy dance tunes), and all the beer runs out by 10:15 p.m. Wait, I forgot: the “Fall Festival” is a non-alcoholic event. Oh well, I doubt the KA crowd would want to drink milkshakes all night, so I guess that plan will not work. That is too bad. Nobody can possibly lump an entire student body as diverse as Davidson’s into a huge, homogenous group: not the SGA, not the Union, and certainly not any one fraternity or eating house. People are different. People have different interests and concepts of entertainment. This diversity is precisely the reason Davidson has seven distinct fraternities, three separate eating houses, and countless clubs and organizations. Let us not stifle individuality and assorted interests for some distant and unlikely ideal. After all, solidarity is not fostered by lumping everyone together into a dull, milkshake-drinking mass, mingling merely because there is nothing else to do.