OPINIONS MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1994

Nation of Islam: Are these ideals we should promote?
Alan Staggers

When I heard that a member of the Nation of Islam was coming to Davidson College, I was quite disturbed. After all, the Nation of Islam, a black separatist movement led by Louis Farrakhan, teaches that the white man is the enemy and incapable of love. Their then-spokesman Khalid Abdul Muhammed said, according to Fred Bruning’s Macleans article, “Nothing Produces Hate Like Hatred,” that after blacks take control of South Africa, they should kill whites who do not leave in one day. "We kill the women, we kill the babies, we kill the blind. We kill the cripples. We kill the faggot. We kill the lesbian. When you get through killing them all go to the Goddamned graveyard and dig up the grave and kill them a-Goddamn-gain because they didn’t die hard enough.”

Anti-white, anti-homosexual, and anti-Semitic. Louis Farrakhan has suggested that the Holocaust never happened, has called Hitler a “great man,” and has generally blamed Jews for the problems of the black race. An employee of Davidson College who was there told me that it was for “minority students only.” I was told that because my skin was the wrong color, I could not enter. I’m sorry, but this is wrong. Excluding me on the basis of my race is racist and discriminatory. And so I ask those of you who invited the Nation of Islam here to Davidson College, what are your goals? What do you hope to accomplish by inviting a group which bases its doctrine on hate and ignorance? Do you want racial harmony? Do you believe in tolerance? If you do, the Nation of Islam is not the place to look. But then I’m only a little ignorant white boy who doesn’t understand, right?

Well, I understand this: on Friday night a group of hate was welcomed to our campus. A group of racism and intolerance. If any of you who were allowed to hear the speaker bought into the message of the Nation of Islam, listen to this— you were manipulated. Any sense of self-worth or self-esteem which is the result of putting down others is worthless. Skinheads may feel really good about themselves because they are not black or not Jewish. But this is a false sense of worth. Blacks should have a sense of worth for the same reason as everyone else should — because they are people, humans. Genuine self-worth cannot flow from hate and contempt for others.

Late Friday night I began to wonder what would have happened if it was a white supremacist group who visited Davidson. Can you imagine the uproar if a group of whites invited the KKK and then excluded non-whites from the meeting? There would likely be calls for action against whatever group would do such a thing. Personally, I feel that if the BSC is going to be a place where exclusion and hate are accepted, then it has no place on our campus. It is doubtful that the majority of BSC members advocate hate and exclusion, but the events of this past Friday night might suggest otherwise.

Gull’s Nest: Bill Gullan

Dahmer’s murder and the slowly cooking frog

The murder of Jeffrey Dahmer in a Wisconsin prison last week not only represents yet another unforgivable breach of duty by the State, but also a breakdown of our democratic system. The glee and laughter I’ve heard from members of the Davidson community on this matter is unfortunate. The citizens of Wisconsin, through their elected and appointed officials, have decreed that there shall be no death sentence in their fine state. However, the regrettable decision to place Mr. Dahmer in a normal prison was tantamount to the death penalty, which the citizens of Wisconsin defeated at the ballot box. There were reports of inmates in Mr. Dahmer’s cellblock contacting the families of his victims with cryptic messages of how they would “take care of him.” Nobody can tell me that his murder was not predictable, and one cannot help but shiver when the prosecuting attorney in the case was quoted after Dahmer’s death, saying with sardonic mean-spiritedness, “Now, the Dahmer family will have to experience what his victim’s families experienced.” Where is the respect for Wisconsin law one deserves to expect from a paid state official?

The decision to expose Jeffrey Dahmer to such a situation as would cause his death represents a deplorable lack of respect for Wisconsin voters and their commitment to the maintenance of human life. If the state of Wisconsin has no death penalty sentence on the books, it is the sacrosanct duty of the State, no matter how awful his crime might have been, to assure that he lives. This apparent breakdown (whether conspiratorial or not) is grounds for an enormous civillawsuit on behalf of the Dahmer family. The inmates who murdered him, the state officials who sanctioned his return to a normal prison, and the guards on duty at the time of the slaying should be aggressively prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law; the first for murder, the others for negligence. Economist Walter Williams, in his speech at Davidson last year, likened the present encroachment by the government on our rights (and even the rights of prisoners) to cooking a frog. The water is reaching its boiling point so gradually that we don’t notice in time to jump out of the pot. Soon, if we do nothing, our government will continue to advance, and our status as a free society will be further endangered. In this case, government abdicated its legal responsibility to protect the life of a human being. What’s next? Jeffrey Dahmer deserved the death penalty. But for those of us who value democracy, he must not have died in vain.

A WILD KINGDOM FEATURE

MR. COLLEGE BY ANTHONY RUBINO, JR.

STAR TREK The MMeeeeeeis Write Mr. College at: PO Box 30094 Bethesda, MD 20824-0094

Lost Episodes

Fed-up with his constant complaining, Spock slaps McCoy about the face and head until he cries like a ten-year-old girl.

A PARODY © Anthony Rubino, Jr 1994 © Distributed by Tribune Media Services.

To be a dreamcatcher

We talked last year about dreams. He and I, sitting in some foreign room, talking about things that very well may have been impossible, but we were dedicated to the idea, nonetheless. I learned something that afternoon. He was sixteen, from the projects, and had already lost a child. He was a pathetic welfare fatality and he had dreams.

“I'd like to open a home for needy children one day. If I could just let kids have a place that made sense for a while. Make them feel loved and safe.”

I have kept that conversation with me for months. Every now and again when I want to yell and scream about life, I think of him saying, “I want to help children,” instead of, “Why hasn’t anyone ever helped me?” And I bite my tongue knowing that I really don’t have it bad.

His dreams, however, have ceased. I visited him the other day by sheer chance. As he talked, I asked what was going on, what he was looking forward to, how his life was going. His eyes held some distinct rage I had never witnessed. And in a voice that was choked with so much emotion that it pained me to even listen, he said, “I want to get out of the projects without being in a body bag.”

I reminded him of what his dreams had been, what happened to the children’s home. He stared out at nothing, away from me. “I don’t know about all that. I’m pretty skeptical about a person making a difference. A person can’t do anything anymore; can’t make a difference. I’m lost. This whole generation is lost. All you hear is talk. Talk is cheap. There’s nothing changing out there. I don’t know about dreams.”

I didn’t show much emotion then. I left the school, got in the car, and drove back to Davidson shaking. All day, I could only hear, “I want to get out of the projects without being in a body bag.” I called Habitat for Humanity that day to see if I could get his family out of the projects. The process, however, will be slow. I don’t know how to bring his dreams back but I know that he deserves them as much as I do. For once, he deserves to laugh. He deserves to feel like he is seventeen and not forty-five. He deserves to feel wanted and appreciated. Helping him will make a difference, hopefully.

He is right, however, it is not just him that is lost. There are countless kids in schools in Charlotte who are lost. They need more than just someone to tutor them, they need more than just someone to drive them around. They need someone to step in and pull all of their resources and contacts together to make some small difference, to make life a little more fair. These kids didn’t choose to live the way they do. And they do not think they can ever live life another way.

There is something vital about dreams. An incredible motivational rush that dreams give you. When you lose your dreams, you lose part of your soul. Does anybody want to be a dreamcatcher?

Case continued from page 7

These boys repaid people out of their own sense of honesty, and they had no idea that they were in any sort of trouble. The case has been appealed, and the Review Board has sent it to the Honor Council. The sanctions are pending the completion of the judicial process. Davidson is a wonderful and special place, and the Honor Code is a large part of that, but a situation like this shakes one’s confidence in our ability to expedite fairness and makes one question the definition of “Honor” that the school subscribes to. I believe this decision should be reversed, their records cleared, the punishment lessened and we should all use it to take a good look at the place and meaning of truth and honor in our lives.

Sincerely,
Nina Blount '97