2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Flasher, larcenies add to campus crime scare

By Jeff Kent

In the past week, there have been several larcenies and other various crimes across the Davidson campus. Residence Life recently
sent out a memo warning students of suspicious characters and unregistered solicitors. Although this mini-crime wave has not reached epidemic
proportions, police warn students to be on the lookout.

The crimes include several larcenies of wallets, book bags, and a bicycle, as well as an incident of vandalism and
even a flasher. Most of the larcenies occurred either in academic buildings or in the library, where unattended articles were
taken from offices or open areas. The police department stresses that with these thefts, students and faculty should take precautions
to secure their valuables and keep an eye out for suspicious-looking characters.

The flasher exposed himself to an unsuspecting pedestrian on Monday, April 11 at 9:15 a.m. on Jackson Court. The perpetrator
remains unidentified, but there have been no other reports of flashings since that time.

This week, Richard Terry of the Residence Life Office sent out a memo concerning solicitors on Davidson campus. Dean William
Terry says that there have been “more incidents of uninvited and unwelcome solicitors” on campus this semester than in years
past. He cites at least four such incidents this semester and says that police have had a few uncomfortable altercations
with the solicitors. Dean Terry says that the college’s main concern is the safety of the students and their possessions.
The solicitors often wait outside of residence halls until someone lets them in, then wander the halls unattended. Although no
specific instances have been reported, these salesmen, who often work for “fly by night” type of operations, have the potential
to enter dorm rooms and remove items or harass students. Dean Terry stresses that any students who encounter solicitors should
immediately call Residence Life or the campus police.

By Court McBryde

The Dean of Students Selection Committee submitted its final recommendation to President Kuykendall after the three final candidates for Dean
recently visited Davidson. The final candidates came “to see Davidson life, meet the President, and meet the students,” says committee
member Eric Rosenbach.

Dean of Students to be approved by Trustees.

The long process in search of a new Dean will draw to a close at the meeting of the Board
of Trustees on April 21 and 22. The President will make his recommendation to the Trustees, who will then vote
on the issue. Rosenbach says, “Ultimately, it is the President’s decision on who the new Dean will be. We [the
Selection Committee] only serve as an advisory committee.”

Photo by Amy Laukkanen

Velcro handball and other Union toys entertained the Spring Frolicers on the football field Friday afternoon.

Spring Frolics defies dreary forecast

By Phoebe Dean

Students, faculty, and staff made “Much Ado About Nothing” this weekend at Spring Frolics, in spite of threatening weather predictions
which materialized on Friday. The festivities began on Thursday evening when acoustic guitarist David LaMotte performed on the patio behind
Vail Commons. On Friday afternoon, although the start of the show was delayed by a thunderstorm, Vertical Horizon opened for
Jackopierce at Richardson Field. People played frisbee, threw footballs, and hula-hooped; others enjoyed eating, drinking, and sitting in the sun.
The Human Gyroscope was a popular attraction. “My friends on the wrestling team paid the man five dollars to try
and make me sick,” laughed Os Prioleau, who had just eaten at the Waffle House.

Friday night, the Cultural Events Committee and the Inter-

Houses do not serve food by rules

By William Robert

According to N.C. State Statute 130A-249, Patterson Court houses would receive low marks for food preparation and serving as well
as for general sanitation. Section2609 of the statute states that food preparers “shall use clean, plastic disposable gloves or sanitized
utensils during food preparation.” The cooks at most of the houses rarely, if ever, use plastic gloves when handling the
food throughout the preparation process. Food served in a buffet or customer self-service fashion must, in order to meet the
sanitary mandates, “be protected in such manner that the direct line from the customer’s mouth to the food be intercepted
by glass or similar shields.” These shields serve to protect the contamination of food “by customers’ coughing and sneezing.” They
can vary in style from those in the hot meal serving line at Vail Commons to those over the Commons’
salad and alternative bars. Such protections do not exist at any of the houses on Patterson Court; there, food is
simply placed on a table for public consumption. Members of Pi Kappa Alpha serve themselves in the kitchen, which violates
Section 2610 of the North Carolina Administrative Code. Aside from Rusk and Phi Delta Theta, none of the houses provides
covers of any sort for food containers in the intervals between the serving of one individual and the next. The
statute also explicitly states that at the conclusion of a meal served buffet-style, unconsumed food left on the serving line
“shall be discarded.” This mandate differs dramatically from the policies of various houses. The best “leftover policy” of the houses
investigated is that of Rusk where they throw out all leftovers after a 24-hour period. Phi Delta Theta keeps any
substantial leftovers for two to three days. Connor waits until Sunday before discarding their leftovers; others save theirs for one
calendar week. The most unsanitary scenario is at Kappa Sigma and Pi Kappa Alpha, where leftovers remain for an unspecified
length of time.

The Davidsonian

KATHERINE HASH - NEWS EDITOR
ASHLYN DANNELLY - ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR
CARRIE BLACKBURN - SPECIAL ASSIGNMENTS

Staff Writers: Court McBryde, Brett Marston, Jay Jennings, Krisy Ford, Martha Knight, Wendy Lee, Mary Clare Jalonick, Christy Block, Lexy
Devane, Ross Sloop, Towner Blackstock, Phoebe Dean, Beth Lindsay, Mary Laura Moretz, Jeff Kent, Jeff Fuller

The International Students’ Association transformed the 900 Room into a “Tropical Paradise.” About 200 people enjoyed the South American band,
wild pina coladas and daiquiris, and Mexican food from El Cancun. The event was a huge success. “It’s great to
see so many people here,” said Don Jayasinghe. “Usually the International Ball doesn’t attract so much attention.” On Saturday, the
band Rear Window played on the Commons patio. Later that night, the Films Committee showed the movie “Much Ado About
Nothing” in the 900 Room. The Union Board also sponsored a Midnight Breakfast at the Outpost with free food for
the first 100 people. Davidson Outdoors organized two trips this weekend in conjunction with Spring Frolics: Nantahala whitewater rafting and
a day hike to Stone Mountain. Enjoying the unexpected sunshine, Allison Milligan found Spring Frolics “the perfect excuse to goof
off.” Rosie Molinary, Union Social Vice-President, comments, “It was just nice to see so much of the campus come together.”

Statement of Purpose may change

SOP continued from page 1

The SGA recommended that this qualification be removed. SGA President Eric Rosenbach says that the current restrictions preclude the valuable
leadership and service of influential non-Christians. Kuykendall took the SGA’s recommendation, researched the issue, and has submitted his report to
the Board. Kuykendall conducted a background study on similar policies at other Christian schools. The Board of Trustees Executive Committee
will give a report about this to the full board at next week’s meeting.

NOW SELLING...

New Release 4/19: Jackopierce - Bringing on the Weather

Don't miss the Hometown Records Union Study Break/ C.D. Swap 8pm Thursday, April 21st! 100s of New and Used CDs
at Discount Prices!

Lakeshore Market Place: 896-7882
