16 THE DAVIDSONIAN BACK PAGE INTERVIEW MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1994

Donna Peters brought to Davidson some of her comic talent, and something of herself. September 22, 1994

What were your ambitions when you first came to Davidson?
Chemistry major.

Are you serious?
Yes, very serious. I thought, okay, I really liked that in high school. I’m going to be a chemistry major
and then I’m going to go to med school. Well, one chemistry class—out the window. And then law school—until I
graduated, and I worked for a bank. I know some people who work for banks, and they like it. I
didn’t. But had a good time there.

What led you to theater after graduating from Davidson with an English degree?
Well, I really... I dabbled in it in high school. I kind of just got turned to it during my
senior year. So I knew when I graduated that was what I wanted to do. I just hadn’t figured out
how I was going to do it, or how I was going to tell my parents—you know, things like that.
I decided that, because everything I have ever done in my life has been very practical, I should go get
training, which was definitely the right thing for me. Not everybody feels the same way, but I do. It's like
if someone plays the oboe, they play the oboe and get better. An actor uses their body, and with training
is better—I completely believe in that.

Can I give you my anecdote about acting while we’re on the subject?
Anybody in the world can call themselves an actor, and it makes me so mad because, if you work in
a restaurant, you wouldn’t say, "Oh, I’m a brain surgeon, but I’m not practicing right now.” Anybody can say they're
an actor, so it’s very important to be proud of what you’re doing and know a lot more than all
those other busboys who call themselves an actor. For me, going to graduate school and saying, “Yes, I also have
an MFA,” is a little more self-assuring.

What has been your greatest moment so far in this career?
There are three. Can I have three moments?

Sure.
Okay. My first moment would be... we did a musical at Davidson—there hadn’t been a musical at Davidson for ten
years or so—Leonard Bernstein’s Wonderful Town, and I was the main woman and singer. I don’t call myself a singer,
but you don’t cringe or anything when I sing. But that’s the first time I realized maybe I should do
comedy. I thought, “I like this. This feels right.” That was the first catapult. The second one would be when
I gave my one-woman show. I originally had to do it as an MFA assignment and, again, started thinking maybe
I should take this writing thing a little more seriously. The third time, for strictly monetary reasons, I got a
small part, speaking, in a George Lucas movie, that will be released in October, and that was a really big
moment because whenever you tell someone you’re an actor they say, “Have you done any movies?” And then they say,
“Did you have a speaking part?” And I can say yes to both those questions. So I feel like that
was, in terms of acting as a career, not artistically, but as a career, I feel like that was a
big plus.

What do you find is the most difficult aspect of doing comedy?
It completely changes depending on the age group of the people. I thought it would change because of the region,
like whether they lived in the South, because my show is all I know, really, about comedy. My show is,
uh, very Southern. I thought that the South would make a difference—I did it in New York, I did it
in Atlanta, and it didn’t make a difference. It was received the same way. But what really makes a difference
is the age of the people. I can kind of change the show, because I wrote it and I’m not
going to sue myself, you know, for violating the copyright or something. But, I change it if I kind of
have an idea of the age of the audience. Like if the audience is really young, certain things aren’t going
to fly, because they’re kind of embarrassed to laugh at each other.

What about acting in general?
I guess just staying warmed up in between jobs, because they

I should have asked for her autograph. The minute hand on my watch showed I was five minutes late, and
as I ran across the lawn to the Union, I hoped to see Donna Peters just walking into the Cafe,
instead of sitting alone at a table fuming about rude journalists. Luckily, Donna was running late as well, probably grabbing
a bite to eat between her rehearsal and her “big interview.” We stood in opposite corners of the room for
a while, before she approached and said, “Bobby? You look like you’re looking for someone.” I had been looking for
someone, in fact. The woman whose face I had seen on fliers around campus, the woman I had read so
much about in the past week.the charming comedienne whose show I was going to see that night—in name, Donna Peters.
This Donna Peters was a little shorter than I expected, was dressed casually, carried a large bag just like any
student around here, and seemed right at home. Actually, she was right at home. Donna graduated from Davidson in 1989,
and went on to earn an MFA in acting from UNC Chapel Hill. She was here to do her one-woman
show, free for Davidson students and faculty, a gift to a school she holds dear. The performance, entitled The Hoffman
Hotel (That’s hotel, not hotel), is based on experiences she had at a Chatham, Alabama gathering place when she was
a child, and she claims that none of the names have been changed. H.B. (or Honly Bonly for those who
saw the show) is her uncle, for example. Her comedy show has taken her from Atlanta to New York, not
to mention all over North Carolina.

Her talent has landed her roles on stage, and recently on film—in George Lucas’s soon-to-be-released Radioland Murders. Knowing all this,
and having talked with Donna for an hour about our Alabama childhoods, I went to her show filled with laughter
that needed an excuse to come out. And she provided one. Her presentation was so endearing and personal that I
could not help feeling part of Chatham’s strange, remarkable community. After the show, Donna stuck around to talk with her
fans, old and new, and to reminisce with some of her old professors. No one wanted her to leave, but
it is better that she has. This school gave her some of what she needed to succeed, and it is
time for her to use it—to continue to use it.

Have things changed since 1989? Not much, really. There is a big building on the corner of Main and Griffith
that was not there before. Will Terry has retired. Norton’s barber shop has closed. And Donna Peters is a star.
Well, maybe not yet. But she is certainly on her way.

"I like this. This feels right." really don’t come that often. But once you do it for a while, and
once you move into a new city, you’re trying to establish yourself as an actor, and it takes a while.
Let’s say in January I have an audition, and I don’t have another one until March—it’s really hard not to
make that March audition a life or death situation. And it isn’t life or death—it’s a stupid audition. Not life;
not death. Just go and have a good time. It’s really hard to keep that in perspective. And also it’s
hard because I feel like I’m pumping all this time into it, and I’m very practical. I’m not into the
starving artist scene. I don’t have five nose rings, and if you did you couldn’t get a job! You see
all these people walking around with nose rings and tattoos on their necks and everything, and they can’t even get
a job, and if they get a job they won’t have a career. There’s a big difference. Not unless you’re
enormously famous or fabulously beautiful. I mean, if you know you can get places strictly by the way you look,
and I don’t mean that in a bad way—if I could do it, I would do it, I would take
complete advantage of it—but that’s hard. But it’s not bad; if it was bad I wouldn’t do it. It’s not
a negative thing, but it keeps you on your toes.

Do you enjoy stage work or film work more? I have to say stage, because that’s where I’ve had my
biggest parts. If I had a lead in a movie, I’d say film, because you get so much more exposure,
and everybody in the world can see you, and the money is phenomenal. But right now I’d have to say
stage.

What was it like working with George Lucas? He was very... very quiet. He just did his business, he got
business done. And he was very friendly to everybody, and very accessible. I have a lot of respect for him
aside from his career. He’s a big family man, and he makes pretty clean movies, movies a lot of family
people can appreciate. He had his children there with him—I mean, hey, if I could pay for a nanny, I
would, too—but, he had his family there. He wants to educate people in the arts—it could be music, theater, painting,
whatever. It’s just the biggest relief to find stable people. Would he know me if I passed him on the
street? I don’t know, I'd have to remind him, probably.

What are your plans for the future? I’m trying to decide if I want to turn my one-woman show into
a play. Like a full-length play with characters, not just for me. I’m trying to write a screenplay now. I’m
reading books on how to do it—I don’t know how to do it. And I’m also ready to start something
new, write something new. I’ve been doing this show for about, I guess, two years in December, and I’m going
to try something new—see if I can make it work.

BY ROBERT RAMSAY
