Che a wuidsonian

SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY

VOLUME LXXXV MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1994 NUMBER 18

College no longer guarantees 100% financial aid
13.5% cap may force prospectives to go elsewhere
By Mandy Curtis

Quickly approaching the 13.5% cap on financial aid, the college will no longer be able to guarantee all entering freshmen
financial aid covering 100% demonstrated need as has been done since the initiation of Davidson’s formal financial aid program in
the mid-1950s.

In an effort to preserve and enhance funding for academic and co-curricular programs, the trustees adopted the cap policy in
the spring of 1992 to limit the percentage of the college’s annual budget designated for financial aid. Because institutionally funded
financial aid represents the fastest-increasing portion of the Educational and General budget of the college, the Sutton study group recommended
to President Kuykendall and the trustees that a “cap” be placed on the percentage of the school’s allocated financial aid
budget.

In a report from the Financial Aid Planning Team, comprised of members from the admissions and financial aid offices as
well as two students, the projected “gap” in financial aid packages for the entering class of 1994 suggests that as
many as 100 students in the class will be offered aid packages that fall $6000 short of the full demonstrated
need. According to Gordon Peck of the financial aid office, the lack of

See Aid on page 2

SOLIDARITY
ES community together through continuing effort to heighten ad

History professor Sally McMillen dines with students at the Women's Issues Dinner on Wednesday, February 16 in the Union. As
part of Solidarity Week, the dinner was held in appreciation for cultural diversity and to bring the college community together
through continuing effort to heighten awareness. Photo by Amy Laukkanen

Credit cards stolen for sex calls
By Ashlyn Dannelly

In December and January, two students’ and two faculty members’ credit card bills showed expensive phone calls to 900 numbers
in California which they did not make. The total amount of charges for the sex calls amounted to nearly $2000.

The father of one student contacted him and inquired about phone charges to the pornography line, which ranged in the
hundreds of dollars. In mid-January, the student reported the incident to Dean of Students Will Terry, who then reported the
fraud to campus police. According to Director of College Relations Jerry Stockdale, campus police are “authorized to do routine criminal
investigations.” Only when police began to investigate the first incident did other related incidents surface.

The cards themselves were not taken from any of the victims-- just the numbers and expiration dates. Therefore, no one
realized there had been a theft until unusual charges surfaced on their bills.

In early December, one student left his book bag unattended in the Preyer building while meeting with a professor. Apparently,
his father’s Visa card number was obtained then. The student reported the theft on January 31 after receiving phone charges
for $206. His bill showed six unusual calls, three on December 7, and three on December 16. The calls were
made from various phones in Martin Science Building, and one call was made from the Preyer building.

According to Assistant Director of Public Safety and Police Rick Moore, “When we started investigating that, we learned there were
three more victims.”

The second student had her number taken from an unattended book bag in the chemistry library of Martin Science Building
while she ate lunch in mid-December. Her bill showed four calls, two on December 16 and two on December 17,
each made from a different phone in Martin Science Building. Her charges totaled $290.84.

One faculty member had his credit card number stolen from his office. He discovered thefraud when he received his Visa
bill for December and January. Eight phone calls were made, seven of which were from various phones in Martin Science
Building, and one of which was made from a pay phone off-campus.

See 1-900 continued on page 2

20 Millions of Dollars
1994 1995 1996 1997 Fiscal Years 1998 1999
[== Funds Needed = Funds Available | The gap is widening between the money Davidson can offer. Courtesy of Financial
Aid Planning team funds students need and the Cats beat UNCC, bring Hornet's Nest Trophy to Davidson

By Will Cobb

A week ago, men’s basketball was starting to warm up. Last Tuesday, the team was on fire, scorching UNC-Charlotte 74-61
at the Independence Arena, giving the 49ers their only loss at home this season. But just as the Cats tasted
victory, they swallowed an 80-70 loss to Appalachian State on Saturday, ending an eight-game winning streak.

With a team record now at 17-6, the Wildcats have a chance to end with 20 regular season wins for
the first time since the 1968-69 season. The three remaining games are all in the Southern Conference, the most important
being tonight’s game against first place East Tennessee State followed by Marshall and cellar dweller VMI.

Last Tuesday, the Cats squared off against UNCC for the prized “Hornet’s Nest,” which had been in the hands of
the 49ers for some time. Most people in Charlotte saw the Wildcat’s early season victory over UNCC as a fluke.
For the first 30 minutes of the game, they appeared correct. Though UNCC seemed in control, they couldn’t put the
Cats away. Down by nine with 9:04 remaining, Davidson needed some sort of spark. Senior Janko Narat came through with
a bang, catapulting the game with a 28-6 run, simply wearing down the 49ers.

“We played with a lot of poise and kept our level of intensity high. With our high tempo style of
play from endline to endline, we were able to wear them down,” said McKillop.

Davidson had a season low eight turnovers in the game with only two in the second half, and with 54.2%
shooting, the Cats were able to set up a zone defense that could not be cracked by the 49ers. For
most of the game, the lopsided size advantage seemed to be too much. UNCC out-rebounded Davidson 44-30 and had 12
blocked shots.

See Cats on page 15

Semester calendar changes

By Martha Knight

Next year, Christmas break will begin a day earlier than previously planned. College administrators met on February 14 to revise
the calendar for the 1994-95 school year. The fall semester will officially end a day earlier than scheduled. According to
registrar Polly Griffin, the administration is making its best effort to respond to students’ concerns expressed about last fall’s exam
schedule. However, the college’s requirements, which stipulate a certain number of class days, a reading day, and eleven exam sessions
leave the college with little room for change.

Fall semester exams will begin on December 16 and will last until December 21. Rather than extending the period to
include a morning exam on December 22 as planned, a Sunday session will be offered. Griffin says, “I don’t know
that this reflects future calendars,” and adds that she and other administrators are working toward more permanent changes for coming
years.

THIS WEEK
» David Shi returns
Political Correctness
Fancy Dress at Davidson
Stephen Hill talks about intolerance and the PC movement.
Other schools have all-campus parties, so why can't we?
Davidson hosts weekend swimming and diving championships.
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

NEWS OPINIONS ARTS & LIVING SPORTS
SoCon Swim Meet
