12 - THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING | MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1994

Stasack spends time exploring the music of the East
by Geordie Schimmel

Remember those burning questions from childhood about Korean music? Professor Jennifer Stasack answered them all last Monday evening in a beautiful lecture and recital in the Visual Arts Center. Stasack, who has recently returned from South Korea, was awarded several grants to further her composition work in Seoul. While abroad she studied numerous musical forms, but among these the most fascinating is Pansori.

Pansori singers must command a considerable vocal range, and in training will retreat into the mountains, singing from mountain peaks until heard far below, or will go into waterfall caves, singing against the back of the falling water. But, lest you be misled, Pansori is not all vocal. A sort of sleepy sideways harp called the Kayageum or a barrel drum is sometimes played in accompaniment—and the effect is impressive. When the exquisitely honed singing meets harp and drum the sound is very unlike anything you have ever heard. The music becomes a yin and yang, moving between tension and release, tension and release—always evocative and deep.

Fiction writer Mark Richard: Southern writer reveals simple truths about humanity
By William Robert

“Start with a simple thing and just open it up.” Mark Richard gave this advice to a gathering of students and professors at a reading of his fiction held last Wednesday in the 900 Room. In fact, this is exactly what Richard is a master of and what makes the content of his prose simultaneously rich and unpretentious. Richard, currently a visiting professor of writing at Ole Miss, stressed his maxim of keeping things simple as he explained that the story he read, “Gentleman’s Agreement,” is about “a boy and a rock, and that’s pretty much it.” But through this elemental premise, he was able to reveal things about the world and the individuals who live in it.

“Gentleman’s Agreement” centers around the “covenant” a child makes with his father after throwing a rock and breaking the windshield of the family car. The child’s intentions are completely innocent and noble when he realizes that the other rocks are jealous and that they want to be “tossed”—which is different from being “thrown,” and therefore does not break the covenant. Eventually, the child attempts to toss a rock too large for tossing, and the rock splits the child’s head open. After his head is stitched and his father returns from the hospital after being severely burned while fighting a fire, the two have a surprise encounter in the story’s final words.

The style in which this uncomplicated plot is delivered adds the richness characteristic of Richard’s prose. His insight into the mind of the child is wonderful; the child’s thoughts and actions are both realistic and realistically depicted, which makes them not only credible but humorous. For example, the naive notion that inanimate objects have emotions and the description of the child poking at the rock with his feet are both common occurrences in the world of children. Richard’s text is also charged by his frequent use of poetic alliterations, religious symbols, and magical descriptions of natural occurrences: he describes the fire the father fights as “a mad dog fire...barking.” Also, the characters in the story have no names which makes them more universal and more believable at the same time.

When asked about his fiction, Richard said that in writing, “It’s not the agenda; it’s the people” that matter. He encouraged young writers both to “write what you don’t know because it’s a discovery process” and to read literary classics: “as a writer, you want to know where you are on the continuum.”

Made to look beautifully: Hot continued from page 10

He told me about the star-and-moon affair I'd picked out. “So you want to be a little kid, I’m gonna treat you like a little kid.” He giggled. I wasn’t sure what that meant.

“I’m gonna open up my own place someday. Not photography like this—real photography, professional photography,” he told me. “Look pouty,” he commanded when I had on the red sequined cowboy jacket. From time to time he’d shake his head and make a “tsk tsk” sound, as if I looked dangerous in my outfits.

After we finished it was time to choose a pose from the video monitor. It was tough to decide between the cowgirl look and the biker look, but I settled upon the leather jacket with the turned-up collar. I wondered if I looked like I was getting ready to hop on a Harley, big hair and all. While I waited for him to print out a proof sheet, I browsed through other people’s Glamour Shots. A photo album proudly listed the ages of the women in the pictures—the general trend being that they could make 16-year-olds look like 30, and vice versa. The stylist told me that men often give their wives or girlfriends a sitting for a gift. Women like to surprise their men by presenting them with a slick 8 x 10 for their offices. I did Glamour Shots out of curiosity for this article—it’s not something I would ever do normally.

Before I left, a mother came in tugging a little girl, no older than six or seven. The girl was beautiful—long, curly strawberry-blonde hair, wearing cute little overalls. Her mom went through the rack of clothing for kids.picking out small frilly blouses and the same sequined vest I’d tried on. The kid looked as if she really didn’t understand why she was there. While I watched, they sat her in the stylist’s chair and began to put makeup on her. She was very quiet and didn’t smile at all. I wondered what Glamour Shots could do for a six-year-old that school pictures couldn’t. Granted, dressing up is a lot of fun, especially when you’re young. But to have it sanctioned by your mother? To put such a premium on beauty at a young age might be harmful. It’s hard to decide what to make of this phenomenon. Glamour Shots are extremely popular—they were booked up a week in advance. A sitting only costs ten dollars, but the actual pictures start at 30. It would seem strange to someone from another culture to see how we shell out lots of money to pretend to be someone else for a while. It can make you feel pampered, to have people spending two hours slaving over your appearance, making you beautiful for the camera. With Glamour Shots you can “be somebody you are not in reality—a mild-mannered student by day, diva showgirl by night. After all, with the lofty status accorded to models in our society, who wouldn’t want to try to look like one? On a mass level, that says a lot.

Sexually Speaking with Dr. Ruth in Love Auditorium on November 9th. Tickets go on sale October 26th. For more information, contact Georgia Ringle at -2902.

He believes that his fiction appeals to readers because of its universal descriptions about the human character. He justified this by saying, “We’re all going to throw rocks...let that be the human thing.” Indeed, it seems that there is something distinctively human about Mark Richard, his fiction, and the relationship of the two—and perhaps that is what makes all three so marvelous.

Dear Terry,

There is a guy in one of my classes who is always touching himself. I don’t think he cares if people notice, because he winked at me the other day. I want to tell him I have a boyfriend, but I also don’t want to have any contact with him at all. I don’t know what to do, but this touchy-feely business is getting way out of hand. Please help.

Signed,
Rubbed the Wrong Way

Dear Rubbed the Wrong Way,

I believe you may be jumping to conclusions by assuming that he is interested in you merely because he winked at you. We are talking about a person who touches themselves in public—an obvious pervert. He may just be trying to get a reaction out of you. You should give him one. Most men who ogle and proposition women are compensating for their insecurity and sexual inadequacy. None of them actually expect a response. By sitting there like a prim duck you are making yourself a prime target. What you need to do to combat his harassment is to scare him. Next time he winks at you, wink back and smile invitingly. Next time he touches himself for you to notice, touch yourself, too. Let him know that you think his forwardness is incredibly sexy. You might even want to go the extra mile and begin to come on to him without provocation. When you walk into class, drop your pen in front of his desk and then bend down slowly to retrieve it. Smile at him, and snarl like a she-wolf. If his offensive actions persist, you may want to resort to something drastic. Go up to him after class and say, “Hey, big guy. I’ve noticed that you have been sending me signals, and I just wanted you to know that I find you very attractive. I think it was your delicacy and exuberance at first that turned my head, but now it is something deeper—a feeling that rises from my insides, a feeling I can’t put into words. If you are not doing anything right now, could we go to my room, because I don’t think I can stand it any longer.” If this does not send him running away with his perverted little tail between his legs, nothing will. You will want to be careful, though, about people overhearing you. You would not want to ruin your reputation (remember image!). And let me know how my method works. I’m having it published in a psychological journal next month, and am really curious to know if I guessed right.

Love,
Terry

Stories provide insight into the lives of others

Story continued from page 11 on arpilleras, a form of folk art that emerged in Chile in 1975. Arpilleras are colorful scraps of cloth that are arranged to tell a story. After many men protesting bad working conditions and the lack of free speech simply disappeared, their mothers began creating the arpilleras as a means of income and an avenue for expression of their grief. Marjorie Agosin has written the first book on the subject, and her presentation proves to be informative as well as provoking. Davidson is also privileged to have an exhibit of arpilleras from Agosin’s private collection in the Wilson Room. The exhibit is sponsored by the Union Gallery committee. Sonya Kapoor ‘94, is the Storytelling Project organizer. Cecilia Montero is a program coordinator in the Latin American community. Admission to the program is free to the Davidson College community, and it will be in English, so take advantage of this cultural opportunity!