THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1994

Solving homelessness: Government should provide housing subsidies.
By Kimberly Kreiling

In 1980, the term “homelessness” had not even been coined. Today, sources count an estimated six hundred thousand to three million homeless people in the United States alone. This number, however, can dissolve as quickly as it has grown. The first step towards annihilating homelessness is to target the problem. Alcoholism, drug addiction, and mental illness are commonly associated with homelessness, but they are not the issue here. We must understand that to call a person “homeless” implies only that she or he does not have a home. When Robert Hayes, the founder of the Coalition for the Homeless, was asked to identify the three main causes of homelessness, he replied, “Housing, housing, and housing.” To clarify the problem in this way simplifies our task and at the same time gives us more respect for people without homes.

In 1987, a task force led by David Dinkins, the former mayor of New York City, went a step further to define homelessness as “the unavailability of affordable housing and the inadequacy of public assistance...” Accordingly, we may add to our problem of inadequate housing the failure of government to meet this basic need. Now it should be easy to see that as obvious as the problem is, the solution: to provide the homeless with public housing. We must progress towards the socialization of housing in this country. Until recently, capitalism has functioned in such a way that no mass of people lies below the poverty line. That is not the case, however, with our present system. We cannot stand by, watching the gap between rich and poor increase. Consider our country’s already socialized systems of education and transportation, and the debate for socialized medicine. Our government created these systems because some basic human rights...

Gull's Nest: The future American slavery.
By Bill Gullan

How do you cook a frog? Dropping it into boiling water will only cause the frog to hop out. What you need to do is put him into a pot of cold water and gradually heat it, thus depriving the frog’s natural instinct for survival of the chance to save him. Unwittingly, America is being cooked. Sure, we would all resist a massive military takeover, but the gradual erosion of our liberty has gone unnoticed. The unrecognized forces of collectivist oppression have made significant inroads into our seemingly impenetrable constitutional defense against tyranny. It might even be too late to reverse this insidious trend.

Our government is arbitrarily confiscating our income and distributing it to whomever Big Brother sees fit. Taxes in exchange for services are not as odious as income redistribution because Philadelphia picks up my garbage with the money I “contribute.” However, the federal government makes me pay for things that do not benefit me. Let us try to examine this more closely. It snows in Philadelphia, and a boy offers to shovel my driveway for ten dollars. I can tell him yes or no. What if the same boy asks me to pay him to shovel my neighbor's driveway? Once again, I can tell him yes or no. But what does our government do? It comes to my door and tells me that I must, by law, not only pay for my driveway (taxes for service), but my neighbor’s, and anyone else’s that the government decides deserves it. The tax-for-service example is philosophically anti-liberty, but at least I derive some benefit from the fee I pay. I can live with that. But how can the government make me, at the figurative point of a gun, pay not only for services I receive from them, but for services others arbitrarily receive? Why should Robert Mapplethorpe get my money? Why should I pay for Hillary Clinton’s transportation? How can a government justify forcibly taking my money (we would call it theft if anyone else did it) and arbitrarily distributing it?

Professor Walter Williams, when he lectured here, said that he would rather be robbed by a burglar because the thief “would run away, and I wouldn’t have to sit here and listen to him justify it.” Alas, we have journalists and liberal politicians who get in our faces every couple of...

Wild Kingdom
By Anthony Rubine, Jr.

“My boyfriend and I broke up. He wanted to get married, and I didn't want him to." —Rita Rudner

And now, another real-life fairy tale. A love story about two praying mantises: Morris and Mimi Mantis. They met one warm day on a branch high up in an oak tree and were happy together. After a courtship, they mated. When they were done, Morris was the happiest mantis on earth. “Oh Mimi!”, he cooed, “Soon we will be blessed with beautiful and precious little children!” Mimi returned his affection and smiled. “What do ya mean ‘we’?!” said Mimi. Then she ate him.

Other Children’s Stories By Wild Kingdom:
“Fun With Matches and Electricity” and the heartwarming family favorite: “Herbie The Happy Herpie” © Anthonydays and tell us what to do. But now, this tiresome and irritating advice has been turned into law in many places! We had a seatbelt checkpoint near school recently. Government as nanny—what a great concept. I have been informed that my family will be fined if we do not separate our bottles, newspapers, and cans. Government is forcing its priorities on me. Who separates the cans? Not the people who want to recycle (the government or some idiot down the street), but me, someone who doesn’t give a damn. I can also be fined for not having a smoke detector. I wonder if ugly wallpaper will soon be prohibited (if so, I’m screwed). I am not permitted to smoke on an airplane. Who forbids me? Not the person who owns the airplane (USAir), but the meddling government! I am also liable if some oaf slips on my icy sidewalk. I wonder if, since the sidewalk now appears to be my property, I can prohibit people from using it, write graffiti on it, or dismantle it? Whatever happened to the rights of being reckless, non-environmentally conscious, or grouchy? The thought police and Behavior nannies have taken over. Not all of this is amusing. It has been said that this year, average American workers will work from January 1 until early May to pay the government, and the rest of the year for themselves. Last year it was until late April. Every year we move several more days towards total government confiscation of the fruits of our labor. Isn’t that a rough definition of slavery?

Government is big and dumb. It is also very powerful. How can we not realize the extent to which our individual decisions are now being made for us? If government had restricted the entrepreneurs whose technological discoveries have made this the “American Century,” we would still be riding horses. If this imperial government is not stopped now, we will all be car-pooling to get our “fair share” of the rations.

Is housing not a human right? It is, and it should be universally guaranteed and provided by our government. No one should have to spend the night on a city street, just as no one should be deprived of an education. The government must use the correct approach when ensuring housing. Look at public housing today, and you will see that clustering low-income families in projects and hotels only escalates the effects of poverty. Instead of conglomerating the poor in an undesirable environment, our government should subsidize houses of the homeowner’s choice. A limit would always bound the extent of the subsidies. Eventually, however, this system would lead to narrowing the gap between rich and poor, and the limit would become somewhat unnecessary. The system as it stands wastes our money. Unemployed persons in N.Y.C. receive $215 per month for rent, the highest rate of any city. A New Yorker could hardly rent a closet for that amount. Instead of receiving an impersonal, inadequate dole, persons lacking money to rent a home should be subsidized until they are self-sufficient. To adopt a system of socialized housing would be a move in the direction of justice and equality for America. The solution to homelessness lies within our reach. I wonder when we will grasp it.

React to the attack. Luxury continued from page 8

This is the white-American luxury. White people in this country simply don’t have to worry about those things because they don’t affect them the way they affect African-Americans. This luxury is not a negative thing; it’s probably extremely positive. Hell, if I had it, I could probably put all of my energies into other things. I’m not saying this because I want sympathy; I’m saying this because I believe that there needs to be a whole lot more sensitivity towards those of a different race. I am sensitive to the fact that white-Americans have this luxury, and that they are not racist because they don’t see the things that I do. But at the same time, I want white-Americans to try and see things from my point of view.

As far as I am concerned, the only way that Ms. Miller could have overreacted would have been if she had resorted to violence. From what I could tell, she acted in a very responsible manner and went through all of the correct channels to make sure that if it was an act of discrimination, it would not happen again. When we, as African-Americans, react to situations like these and “yell” racism, we are not always correct. But the sad fact is that we are probably correct about 90 percent of the time. And the one time that we don’t react could be the one time that makes things worse for our entire race. The one time you don’t react to the attack by that blonde-haired, blue-eyed man on that Monday afternoon could be the one time when he finally beats you. What would you do, leave it to chance?

WRITE FOR OPINIONS. Call Bobby--Voice mail box #16159