**Davidsonian**

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXVI

Class of '98 arrives

By Robert Ramsay

Thursday, August 25, was a busy day on the campus of Davidson College. It was the date of the annual
welcoming of the newest crop of vintage students that will carry on at this school once the upperclassmen graduate and
become waiters. License plates on the numerous cars read Nevada, Wisconsin, New Hampshire, and 33 other states. Airline ticket stubs
thrown in the trash came from airports in Turkey, Mexico, Russia, and 12 other foreign countries. Transfer students arrived wondering
how different Davidson will be from Washington and Lee, Amherst, UCLA, and many others. And while this was going on,
upperclassmen watched with anxious eyes, thinking to themselves, “How much better are they than us?”

Statistics answer that question. In the Class of 1998, there are 451 students—229 women and 222 men. This number represents
36% of the 2724 applications received last year. In the class are 18 African-American and other African students, about 25
Asian-Americans, but regrettably few Hispanic and Native-American students. Of the total class, 90 were either valedictorian or salutatorian of their
high school, and 57% were in the top 5% overall. The middle 50% of the class scored between 1180 and
1330 on the SAT, the median score being 1260.

See Frosh continued on page 3

MONDAY, AUGUST 29, 1994

A freshman tells her parents goodbye on Friday afternoon of orientation.
Photo by Robert Ramsay

Parents are encouraged to leave on the Friday

RLO prepares to tighten alcohol policy enforcement

By Ashlyn Dannelly

According to Director of Residence Life Richard Terry, “If you’re drinking underage, we will cite you.” In a letter sent
to all returning students, Terry states: “It and actions regarding alcohol use be based not on your experiences last year
but on the specifics of the policy.” Terry says he sent the letter to “reinforce what has always been true”
regarding the alcohol policy. Terry says the new approach is “not an enforcement policy change.” Terry has simply instructed all
Resident Advisors and Hall Counselors to enforce the alcohol policy as revised in the Spring of 1993. If RA’s observe
an underage student drinking alcohol, even in their dorm room, they are then instructed to “dispose of the alcohol and
cite that individual.” But, RAs cannot enter a student’s dorm room with the sole purpose of looking for violations.

Terry attributes the tighter enforcement to this year’s Federal Government. If Davidson is found to not comply with state ABC
laws and federal guidelines, the school “is subject to having some federal funds taken away. That would be a loss
of catastrophic proportions for financial aid money.” There has been some question regarding transporting alcohol from a vehicle to a
residence area. Earlier this year, a student was cited because he carried alcohol from his car to his room. After
that incident, RLO clarified the issue. According to Terry, if a student is 21 and is simply transporting alcohol to
their residence, they will not be written up. However, Terry says, "We don't want people to think they can walk
around with a six-pack under their arm." Terry emphasizes, "The laws are residential in nature... we don't have the luxury
or latitude to decide when to enforce the laws regarding underage drinking."

Chalmers Davidson dies at age 87

By Russ Tarver

Davidson College will greatly miss the wit, charm, and southern gentility of Dr. Chalmers Gaston Davidson. Davidson died June 25
at The Oaks nursing home in Huntersville.North Carolina, at age 87. A direct descendant of Revolutionary War General William Lee
Davidson, the Davidson College namesake, Davidson spent the majority of his life serving the college as a faculty member, administrator,
and friend. Current upperclass Davidson College students know Chalmers Davidson as the man who explained during freshman orientation that “Davidson
is a way of life, based on things of the mind, tempered by manners and morality.” Administrators, faculty, and staff
remember him as a man devoted to Davidson College and the documentation of its history. A personable and cultured man,
Davidson addressed the library staff by their last names. He always wrote thank-you notes, sometimes even in poetry. When he
invited students to his home for mint juleps, he expected them to dress properly, scorning the modern habit of men
wearing baseball caps indoors. While working in the library, he often gathered with the staff during coffee breaks to tell
stories about the college and its personnel, which he insisted “must never leave this room.”

After graduating summa cum laude from Davidson College in 1928, he returned to the school in 1936 to serve as
a professor of history and town historian.

Parking prices rise; city tax repealed
By Ashlyn Dannelly

Due to quick action by SGA Vice-President Allison Sabel, students will not have to pay $70 to have a car
on campus this year. However, the price of parking stickers has risen from last year’s $40 fee to $50. When
Sabel found that students would be expected to pay a $20 tax to the town of Davidson in addition to
the $50 campus sticker, she contacted Dean of Students Tom Shandley. Shandley then talked to Director of Public Safety and
Police Ray Thrower, who investigated the situation.

According to Assistant Director of Public Safety and Police Rick Moore, “There is still some question about whether the town
of Davidson tax applies to students.” Moore says, “They (the town) have decided to table the issue for now. Should
they decide later this year that students should pay the tax, then the college will pick up the expense for
this year.” However, if the town of Davidson finds they can legally apply the tax to students, next year’s students
must pay the tax themselves. According to Moore, the issue hinges on a section of the law which states the
town can apply the tax to those cars which are registered as Davidson residents through the DMV. Regardless, students must
still pay $50 for a campus sticker. Thrower suggested the $10 increase. However, Moore emphasizes that the funds generated from
parking stickers and parking fines go to “the general funds of the college, not the campus police.”

Some parking fines have increased from last year. The fine for parking in a handicapped zone increases from $75 to
$100 and the fine for parking in no parking zones increases from $40 to $50.

Summertime Adventures
Some Davidson students travel the world; some stay at home.

Film Festival Previews
Will takes a look at the fall movie participants for the season ahead.

This Week
Bill Gullan returns as hall counselor with another list of easy living tips.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

NEWS 4-5 | OPINIONS 9 | ARTS 12 | SPORTS 14
