THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1994

LEIGH RAWDON - Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Executive Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Managing Editor

The Davidsonian

ASHLYN DANNELLY - News Editor
RUSS TARVER - Ass't News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts & Living Editor
WILL COBB - Sports Editor
BROOKE McCRAE - Photography Editor
WILLIAM ROBERT - Copy Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES - Advertising Manager
SCOTT HILE - Operations Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN - Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD - Circulation Manager
ERIK SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

Boo. Be careful tonight. When you put on your plastic mask and set out to have a good time with
all the other ghosts and witches prowling the campus, heed these words: don’t take this holiday lightly. It is older
than most others we celebrate, and, frightening as it may seem, it carries on its hoary back a much darker
and bloodier history than most of us would comfortably admit while walking around on a windy October night.

Halloween began in the second century B.C.E. as a Celtic druid observance of the eve of Samhain, or “summer’s end,”
on October 31, the last day of the Celtic calendar. It was a day of feasting after the harvest and
preparing for the cold winter to come, but it was also the day the lord of the dead would bring
together all the people who had died during the year. The deceased were known to roam around and play tricks
on the living, and the druids would sacrifice horses and human beings to pacify the mischievous spirits of the deceased.
This tradition lasted more than six hundred years, even after Europe and Britain became dominated by Christendom.

Later, in the 9th century, Pope Gregory IV made November 1 “All Saint’s Day” and October 31 “All Hallow’s Eve,”
(the word “Halloween” is a derivation of “All Hallow’s Eve”) to counteract the pagan Samhain rituals which some people still
practiced. These were holy Christian holidays designed to honor martyrs and saints, but opponents of Christianity used October 31 as
a time to mock the saintly holiday with witches’ Sabbaths, unholy rituals which usually degenerated into orgiastic revelry. In medieval
Europe, the persecution of witches became prevalent, and black cats were often burned on Halloween because of the belief that
they were witches in disguise.

In the late 18th century, Halloween became less violent, but many superstitions were still associated with the holiday. For years,
people believed that they could foresee the future on Halloween, and they would perform various rituals to predict impending deaths,
marriages, and fortunes. Welsh peasants would look through the keyhole of the church’s doors to see apparitions of their friends
who would die within the year. Young people would peer into mirrors chanting strange verses in hopes that the face
of their future spouse might appear before them.

The holiday came to America late because the Protestant settlers did not recognize All Saint’s Day or Halloween. In the
1840s the Irish immigrated to America heavily and brought their folklore surrounding the eve of Samhain, October 31. Their stories
about mischievous “fairy folk” inspired Americans to celebrate the holiday, and by the turn of the century, wearing costumes and
trick-or-treating had evolved into national activities.

What is it that has made Halloween survive since the time of the druids? Why do we still feel it
necessary to reckon with the dark and the frightening? The answer lies somewhere in the recesses of the human psyche.
Look past the costumes and candy, the orange and black streamers, the jack o’ lanterns and haunted houses, and you
will find something a little more disturbing than a skeleton mask or a menacing cackle. You will find the ghosts
of your ancestors, wherever they are from, sacrificing animals to ward off evil spirits, chanting into mirrors, and burning cats.
You will find something dark, something that has crossed oceans of history and is still alive and well, in spite
of our learning and our science that tell us not to believe in magic. Halloween is no less than a
celebration of the primitive, of our repressed desire to dance on hilltops with blazing torches to scare off evil spirits.
The ghoulish, decadent overtone of Halloween hides what is really a necessary and healthy confrontation of this very real side
of the human mind. So go out, revel with the risen spirits, rejoice in the darkness, become one of the
ghosts. Dance with the ancient spirits, and feel the immensity of what you're celebrating, and, for your own sake, realize
that you don’t have to celebrate it only once a year.

All background information from The American Book of Days, 3rd edition, ed. Jane M. Hatch, The H.W. Wilson Co., New
York, 1978.

LETTERS

Tragedy and intrigue in Russia

To the editors,

I am writing this letter from St. Petersburg, Russia, where I am spending my junior year abroad. I am having
one of the best times of my life and would recommend to anyone and everyone that they visit Russia.

However, this letter has nothing to do with how I am doing, what Russia is like, or what my personal
opinion is in regards to Russia. This letter is about a very good friend of mine from Brown who was
also studying here for a year. His name was Tony Riccio, and we met three weeks ago in Moscow when
our program started. Tony died last Tuesday in Moscow when he fell from the balcony of a 15-story building. He
died instantly, as he fell on his head and was found by Russian boysPlaying soccer. These boys immediately went to
get the two other American students living in the dorm. The students were living on the sixth floor, and it
seems the balcony from which Tony fell might not have been his own. The reporters may have already gotten this
story printed; in fact, I’m sure they have. In which case, this is old news to all of you. Once
again, though, I am not writing this in order to tell you the facts. Rather, I would like to share
with you a little bit about Tony. I wish everyone could know who he was and what he was like.
I'd hate for anyone to ever refer to Tony only as the American student who died in Russia this year.
He deserves so much more than that.

I met Tony at lunch one day. We sat opposite each other and were both grimacing at our unappetizing, overcooked,
fat Russian sausage, and we grinned at one another. We talked. He went to Brown—I played the do-you-know game. After
which we mused on the nonexistent coffee which we both wanted, and the two of us decided to go drink
a cup. I guess I should mention a bit about what Tony looked like. He was tall and thin, he
had short black hair and very dark brown eyes, a goatee that was not tacky, and a wonderful sense of
style. He was Italian, very handsome, and one of the happiest, nicest guys I’d ever met.

We took off for our cup of coffee peshkom (on foot), as the Russians like to say, thinking we’d be
gone maybe an hour. It turned out that none of these little coffee shops they have in Russia ever sell
coffee (go figure), and we ended up searching for three hours before we found a little Russian-style cafeteria that did.
By that point we’d given up going peshkom and had hopped on random tramvals, trolley buses, and the metro. Finally,
we settled into a little dimly-lit cafeteria playing soft Russian music, and the only other people there were the old
Russian couple who ran the place. We drank cowboy-style coffee that had coffee grounds at the bottom of the cup,
and we talked for hours. It seemed coffee had never tasted so good, and we mentioned over and over how
much it had been worth it. I assume that to anyone else, though, it would have tasted like crap. We
each drank three cups of coffee, smoked a few cigarettes, and talked. The conversation came easily that day, and it
went on for hours.

I can’t stress enough how psyched Tony was to be in Russia, probably more so than anybody else. He wanted
to meet every Russian, become friends with everyone, and live the best possible Russian experience of his life this year.
He told me about his job as a lifeguard this past summer and how much he loved children—he’d already found
a job babysitting a friend’s newborn baby. He told me about his parents and how much in love they still
were. And he said he was scared of falling in love because it might never stand up to his parents’
relationship. I mention this only because at this moment it is the only thing I can be glad about: knowing
that no matter how hard their child’s death is to deal with, at least his parents can lean on each
other. We leaned on each other as we walked home and held hands for part of the way; one of
the fastest and most comfortable friendships had formed that day. It was easily one of the best afternoons I’d spent
in Moscow.

See Don on page 9

To the subscribers

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian
requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all
letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey
Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year.

Advertising

Dear subscribers,

We have heard from many of you that you have been patiently waiting for your issues of The Davidsonian to
arrive in your mailboxes. To address this problem, we have arranged for our printing company to attach the mailing labels
and drop the newspapers at the post office before the delivery truck even makes it to campus. This way, your
newspapers should be in the hands of the U.S. Postmaster before your daughters and sons get their hands on them.
If, however, you are missing specific issues (we did not publish a newspaper during fall break, October 10), then please
contact our circulation managers, and they will mail you the appropriate back issues. We apologize for this terrible inconvenience.

Sincerely,
The editors

Correction

Rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

In last week’s article entitled “Rosenbach challenges requirement that college president be ‘active churchman,’” we inaccurately printed an opinion of
President Kuykendall about the impact of his Presbyterian affiliation on his position. SGA President Eric Rosenbach was misquoted relating his
conversation with Kuykendall. Kuykendall was not contacted for the article.
