Che svidsonian

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXVI MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1994 NUMBER 8

By Beth Lindsey

If you have ever found yourself wondering just what a concentration is, you are certainly not alone. Not a part
of the curriculum in many colleges, concentrations are a unique part of the liberal arts education offered at Davidson. Yet
many students are not aware just what they encompass.

“A Little History”

Concentrations were developed nine years ago during the 1987-88 academic year. At this time Davidson switched from the three-term trimester
to the two-term semester calendar. This change, which gave students fewer opportunities to meet prerequisite requirements, thus provided the impetus
for faculty “to rethink what departments were doing with their courses,” says math Professor Stephen Davis.

Dean of Faculty Robert Williams initiated the consideration of the concentration concept to the faculty. Says Williams: “It grew out
of the need for curricular change. I could see that there were going to be problems if there could not
be a more flexible structure. I was also really trying to enable ‘conversations’ to take place among faculty and students—an
added level of communication.”

The faculty responded positively to the idea, and that year the International Studies concentration was introduced. From there, concentrations have
been added as the result of the expressed interest and request of both faculty and students with the consent of
the faculty as a whole.

The Goal of Concentrations

Concentrations seek to cut across departmental boundaries and engage the student in interdisciplinary study under the umbrella of a central
theme. Their interdisciplinary nature is what makes it so appealing for a liberal arts institution. Moreover, the concept of the
concentration seeks “to give recognition to students who have an interest and can involve that interest in their discipline,” says
Davis. The completion of a concentration appears on the transcripts of graduates, thus formally rewarding students for the work they
are doing in a given area of study.

The Advantages of Concentrations

On an administrative level, “concentrations enable us to be responsive to changing student and faculty curricular needs without creating the
structure of a department,” says Williams. Concentrations take the courses that are already being offered and put them together under
a common theme. Instead of creating new departments when new interests arise, a concentration serves as a more flexible structure
for providing for both the students and the faculty.

In addition, concentrations prepare students better for life after college. “Real world prob-

See Minor continued on page 2

Photo by Rob Kosicki

An open visitation policy already allows unlimited interaction in dorms, but a new policy might allow men and women to
live within a flight of stairs of each other.

SGA supports co-ed freshmen dorms 17-13

By Jay Jennings

SGA took the first step towards co-ed housing at Davidson by passing a resolution that would give incoming freshmen the
choice of deciding what type of housing they receive. After lively discussion, the resolution passed 17 to 13.

The Debate

At the meeting, Senior Class President B.J. Rudell said that students “would not be forced to live together” and that
this resolution would merely open the possibility of co-ed housing. SGA Vice-President Allison Sabel emphasized that co-ed housing should be
an option.

Other students did not feel that the resolution should be passed. Senior John Rogers said that “enough changes occur freshman
year without co-ed housing,” and the new housing policywould overwhelm some freshmen. Independent President Jonathan Orr wanted to do research
on the issue before passing the resolution in order to fully understand what the change would mean. He felt the
resolution was a good idea but wanted research results before voting took place.

"The Reaction"
SGA President Eric Rosenbach is “elated that the resolution was passed and hopes that the administration follows through on it.”
Others are not so happy. Junior Bill Gullan feels that passing the resolution was a “big mistake.” Gullan says “it
is unfortunate that the SGA has put itself in...

See Co-Ed on page 3

Cat cards in Cornelius?
By Russ Tarver

You pull up to the cashier at a local grocery store with a full cart. Upon reaching for your wallet,
you discover in horror that your Visa is suddenly not where you want it to be. No worries—just give them
your Cat card!

SGA Vice-President Allison Sabel has established an ad hoc committee to convince area businesses to accept Cat cards as a
payment method for goods and services. “When I was visiting other schools, I noticed that many of them had IDs
that you could use to make purchases off campus,” explains Sabel. “I thought it would be a convenience to have
a similar system at Davidson.”

Sabel says that she hopes students can eventually use the cards in campus vending machines and photocopiers in the library.
After meeting with business managers in the Davidson Saddler Square shopping center on September 30, Sabel generated much interest. All
businesses except Revco were willing to look into the idea. “Revco couldn’t take the cards because it’s a national chain,”
she explains.

Davidson Director of Auxiliary Services Carleton Pritchard is quite supportive of the idea; however, he explained that it would be
expensive to provide businesses with machines that could read the cards. “Each machine would cost around $2,000. Although it would
be a good investment, that’s a lot to ask businesses to pay,” says Sabel. The school cannot afford to buy
the machines this year, so the committee is looking for a sponsor and ways to lessen the expense. “There is
the possibility that we could use a smaller box option where all you would have to do would be to
punch in numbers rather than reading the magnetic strip,” says Sabel. These boxes would reduce the expense to around $300
a piece.

Library Director Leland Park explained to Sabel that in order to install a Cat card system in library photocopiers, wires
would have to be drawn from the Commons to the library.

Photo by Rob Kosicki
Sabel hopes to make Cat Cards useful at local businesses.

Although only in the preliminary stage at this point, the committee is predicting that students will be able to use
their cards at businesses in Davidson by next fall. “If this is a success, we'll branch out into Cornelius,” says
Sabel. “I think it will be really beneficial for both the students and the businesses because more students would buy
from the stores.”

Presidential Rules
Rule that the college president be Presbyterian is challenged.
NEWS 4

Quit your complaining.
Amanda Bryan tells students to stop whining and get to work.
OPINIONS 8

Goatees are “in”
Cat Grimmel, Davidson's link to international fashion, informs men that facial hair is hot.
ARTS & LIVING 10

Win #150
Coach Slagle has his 150th win against Georgia Southern Thursday.
SPORTS 14

Davidson, NC 28036
