THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

This Week in Washington

TV violence worries Congress

By Brett Marston

Straddling a line between doubts about government regulation and evidence that television violence has negative effects on society, Congress is
considering several bills this term which would attempt to limit the amount of violence on television.

“This is going to be one of the most challenging years, and one of the most difficult we’ve ever faced,”
comments National Association of Broadcasters president Edward O. Fritts, as quoted in a Congressional Quarterly article which reports on these
proposals and others which would require that broadcasters preface commercials for alcohol with health warnings.

In the past twenty years, the U.S. Surgeon General, the National Institute of Mental Health, the AMA, and the National
Research Council have all voiced their concern about the apparent connection between violent television shows and the potential for violent
behavior.

More than ten separate pieces of legislation dealing with the problem of TV violence are currently under scrutiny in Congress.
One, Senator Ernest Hollings’s “Children’s Protection from Violent Programming Act of 1993,” would prohibit broadcasters from airing “violent video programming
during hours when children are reasonably likely to comprise a substantial portion of the audience.” News programs, sporting events, and
educational programs would be exempt from this ruling.

“The American public has had enough of Reagan-era deregulation,” Hollings said last October before a Senate Committee considering his proposed
legislation.

Real world moves in

By Scott Windham

Career Services urges juniors to begin making post-graduate plans. The Career Services staff will meet with the junior class on
March 17 at 7 p.m. in the 900 Room to discuss preparations for senior year and beyond. During the brief
meeting, staff members will discuss internships, graduate school plans, and career planning. The goal, according to director Carol Jordan, is
to encourage juniors to begin their graduate school or job search this semester and to make them aware of the
resources at Career Services.

For juniors who are unsure of the direction they want to take after Davidson, Career Services offers the means to
explore options. Informational interviews, self-assessment through written and computerized inventories, and one-day “mentorships” have become very popular among students trying
to discover careers of interest.

Staff members note that juniors who are unable to attend the meeting should contact Career Services at -2132 for help
with post-graduate plans.

“We can no longer rely on broadcasters to regulate themselves. It is time for Congress to act.”

Another plan, brainchild of Massachusetts Congressman Edward Markey, requires all new television sets to come equipped with a computer chip
which would allow parents to block violent programming. Other bills include a proposal to require the FCC to publish a
“Violence Report Card” rating both programs for violent content as well as sponsors who endorse violent shows, and legislation which
foresees a toll-free “violence complaint line” at the FCC.

Early in February, in an attempt to prevent Congress from passing regulatory legislation, broadcasters agreed to create independent monitoring groups
which will publish reports on violent TV content. They were responding to a promise made by Senator Paul Simon, who
told industry representatives last year that he would block any proposed legislation if broadcasters would take substantial steps on their
own to control the level of violence in their programming. As the senator who introduced the Television Violence Act in
1990, which urged networks to establish voluntary guidelines within three years, Senator Simon carries some clout regarding this issue.

As the TV Violence Act reached its expiration date on Dec. 1 last year, the halls of Congress resounded with
criticism that the broadcast industry,concerned exclusively with profits, had taken only token steps toward self-regulation. “Industry inaction has created a
cynicism among parents that the industry is not much interested in reducing violence, and that responding to the needs of
children is not as important as responding to the ratings,” claimed PTA representative Catherine Belter during congressional hearings last October.
Within the next few weeks, broadcasters should announce the details of the power and function of the independent monitoring groups.
Sources: Congressional Quarterly from 9/4/93, 10/23/93, 1/29/94, and 2/5/94; background material and quotes from Sen. Hollings’s bill and from the
congressional hearings are from the December 1993 issue of Congressional Digest.

MONDAY, MARCH 14, 1994

NOTES

Photo by Tony Wagner

The Dean Rusk speaker, Cedric Suzman, spoke about South Africa on Wednesday, March 9.

Alabama’s poor schools wait while government plays politics

A mother at Choctaw County Junior High held her own bake sale to buy a small carpet for her wheelchair-bound
son because the only exercise he was offered was crawling around on a cement floor. In Wilcox County, children had
to pretend they had playground swings. At another school, the library opened only when two nuns could spare the time
to staff it. That was the state of our poor schools when a court ruling demanded decent treatment for them
in 1993. Now, despite that ruling, those children are being stiffed for politics. Not in one or two branches of
Alabama’s government, but perhaps in all three.

The legacy you leave is much more important than the number of times you get re-elected.
-Jim Folsom, May 11, 1993 in The Birmingham News, March 6, 1994

McKinney was right to say no

Democratic U.S. Rep. Cynthia McKinney of Georgia is young, black, and liberal from a state where the titular Democratic majority
admires none of those qualities. So on all those counts, and additionally vulnerable as a freshman, she is taking more
than her share of heat as one of only 34 House members — and the only member of her state’s
delegation — who voted against the resolution condemning the hate speech by Khalid Abdul Muhammad, a top gun in Louis
Farrakhan’s Nation of Islam. McKinney, however, was right. Congress will, as she suggested, slide into very dangerous ground indeed if
it gets into the business of denouncing the rantings of demagogues.
-Tom Teepen, The Atlanta Journal/Constitution, March 6

Collegiate censorship by theft

'I may not agree with what you say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it.'
That famous quotation attributed to Voltaire is cited frequently on college campuses, but if the 18th-century French author knew what
was occurring on some campuses today, he might roll over in his grave. Rather than defending the right to air
unpopular views, some people on college campuses are trying to squash that right by destroying the message at its root:
If they don’t like what they read in a student publication, they simply steal it right off the shelf. And
too many school officials are doing little or nothing to stop this disturbing trend. Since spring 1992, about 140,000 copies
of various student publications have been stolen on 36 campuses around the nation, according to statistics from the Student Press
Law Center.
-Richard Daigle, The Atlanta Constitution, March 6

Ice cream or frozen yogurt, hot fudge, and fresh whipped cream!
507 Providence Rd. + The Arboretum + 202 S. Main St. + 392-0604

RECORDS NOW WITH TERA MASTER SERVICES

Selling tickets to:
Pink Floyd in Raleigh
Phish at Grady Cole Center in Charlotte on March 18

CHECK OUT OUR NEWEST HITS: NINE INCH NAILS, SOUNDGARDEN, AND SAM PHILLIPS

100s of Used CDs & Great Discount Prices!
Lakeshore Market Place: 896-7882
