THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1994

Branching out: dining options in Charlotte.
By Rachel Newcomb

So you want to go out to dinner but you’re bored with the fare in Cornelius. You’re tired of the
fried cheese/soup/club sandwich combo at the local restaurant where all the waiters and waitresses look like aerobics instructors. And you’ve
had one too many greasy burritos at the Mexican cafeteria. Maybe you have a date and you want to impress
him or her by trying something new. Picture yourself driving down I-77 toward Charlotte saying casually to Pat, “I know
of this great little place ...” Well, here are some suggestions. As a lifelong resident of this area, I’ve found
a number of diverse Charlotte restaurants that I love to return to. Hopefully you’ll love them, too. (I’ve rated them
according to cost as well.)

First on my list is Wolfman’s Pizza. It’s a small, hip little place located next to the Fresh Market on
Selwyn Avenue. Wolfman’s far surpasses any pizza restaurant in the Charlotte area with its distinct California pizzas. My parents and
I have been coming here for a few years now, and all my roommates are converts. What makes Wolfman’s Pizza
good is the uniqueness of their menu, as well as fresh ingredients and skillfully prepared pies. Try the New Mexico
Pizza, a delightful combination of chicken, black bean salsa, red onions, fresh tomato, and two cheeses. All pizzas can be
made without meat for vegetarians. And if you want to create your own, they have virtually every ingredient known to
man, such as fresh garlic, sun-dried tomatoes, artichokes, or seafood. Salads are excellent, especially the Greek salad. For dessert, I
recommend the tiramisu, which is light, airy, and sweet. Cost is moderate. Ten dollars or less if you take a
friend and split a salad, pizza, and dessert.

A little more on the expensive side, the Melting Pot is the kind of place you’ll dream about for months
after you eat there. It’s a fondue restaurant where all the food is prepared at your table by you. If
you try the combination platter for two, you get a little bit of everything, with salad, appetizer, meal, and dessert.
For the appetizer, the waiter will turn on the stove in the middle of your table and place a pan
on top, filling it with a small quantity of beer (this helps the flavor and consistency of the cheese). When
this gets hot, grated cheese and spices are melted, and you’re given a variety of different breads and veggies to
dip into the mixture. For the main course, you can choose from either a peanut oil or bouillon-based fondue. A
tray of vegetables and meats is ready for you to cook yourself, suspended on long shish kebabs. For condiments, there
are about five different kinds of sauces.

Calendar

THE SCENE

ART
The Dale Kennington Exhibition is open now in the Edward M. Smith Gallery of the Visual Arts Center. See article
this section. All week.
Glenn Dasher, Sculpture is still in the William H. Van Every, Jr. gallery of the VAC. All week.

MUSIC
There will be a Student Recital on Monday in Hodson Hall at 7:30 p.m. Davidson students will perform new compositions,
ranging from traditional popular forms to new art forms.
Electroluxe! Electroluxe! Electroluxe! This band is awesome. They graduated from Davidson a couple of years back and have been playing
around the Carolinas for a while. Creative Loafing magazine consistently rates them as the “Best Local Band” in Charlotte. They’re
playing in the 900 Room on Monday, Dec. 5 as part of Live Monday, and if you go, I guarantee
you’ll have a good time. Be prepared to get down.

SPEAKERS/MISCELLANEOUS
Piers Rawlings, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Missouri, will be speaking on “Morality Without Principles.” Monday, Dec. 5,
at 4:30 in the Big Screen Room.
Twenty-One-Year-Old Night. Tuesday in the 900 Room, as usual. 10:30 p.m.
Human Rights Around the World. Shelley Rigger, John Wertheimer, and Scott Denham will discuss human rights in China, Mexico, and
Germany. Wednesday, December 7 in the 900 Room.
Doggie Fashion Show - Post Office. Check out the cutest pooches in Davidson. 6:45 p.m. on Thursday, Dec. 8.
Jumpin’ Java at the Union Outpost. Coffee, snacks, music, and fun on Thursdays at 9:30 p.m. in the Outpost. Make
it a tradition.

NCAA SOCCER CHAMPIONSHIPS — END OF THIS WEEK
See sports section for more details.

MOVIE
Aladdin. 900 Roomon Dec. 7 at 9:30 p.m.: CHRISTMAS ACTIVITIES Double Feature — Charlie Brown and the Grinch. Tuesday, Dec.
6, at 9 p.m. in the 900 Room, you can catch these holiday favorites. Christmas Vespers. The D.C. College Choir,
conducted by Donna Di Grazia, and the Brass Ensemble, directed by William Lawing, will perform in the DCPC Sanctuary at
7:15 on Sunday, Dec. 11. HWY. 115 SOUTH MOORESVILLE, NC, (704) 663-0913

MERRY CHRISTMAS! GOOD LUCK ON EXAMS! 2 GREAT LOCATIONS TO SERVE YOUR CHRISTMAS NEEDS NORMAN CROSSINGS AT LIVERPOOL CORNELIUS, NC
(EXIT 28 OFF I-77) BEHIND WENDY'S

All your Christmas needs... Trees, Wreaths, Garland, Sprays, Bows, Home

the dessert — rich chocolate fondue with food to dip into it — pound cake, cheesecake, pineapple, bananas, strawberries, and
marshmallows. You will think you’ve died and gone to heaven. Cost — somewhat expensive, but worth it. As far as
I’m concerned, Cedars is the best Middle Eastern restaurant in Charlotte, located on Sharon Amity Road. If you’re not familiar
with Middle Eastern food, you really should try it; and there are plenty of options for vegetarians. Lunch here is
much cheaper than dinner, and the food is the same, only with slightly smaller portions. The combination platter is a
good way to familiarize yourself with some of the most common types of Middle Eastern food. There’s falafel, a kind
of vegetarian hamburger — a round, fried ball of grain and chickpeas. Hummus is like a garbanzo bean paste. Tabouli
is a salad made with cracked wheat, parsley, and lemon juice. And there are lamb, beef, and chicken kebabs as
well. For dessert, sample baklava and the extremely strong Turkish coffee that will keep you awake for hours. All the
food at Cedars is well-prepared and tasty, and eating there is an exciting foray into cross-cultural fare. This is obviously
not an exhaustive list of the restaurants in Charlotte. There are many more which are equally as good. But these
are a few of my favorites. And as you’re driving home, your date Pat sleeping in a food-induced coma in
the passenger seat, you'll be glad you branched out.

Relieve stress with yoga

Stress continued from page 10

when we were poised in the push-up position. “Lower your chest and chin onto the floor, while keeping your hips
up toward the sky.” The instructor called this the “Down Dog position.” Everyone softly descended to the floor, butts in
the air, exhaling in unison. Suddenly my toes slipped off my yoga towel. I crashed to the floor, rug burn
down the side of my face. I balled up my towel and hurled it against the wall. I was not
going to be defeated by a woman who could be my grandmother. If her body could do it, so could
mine. I mercilessly contorted my limbs for the next 40 minutes, pausing only to wipe away the sweat pouring into
my eyes. Dammit, I was going to get relaxed. The hour ended with the whole class covered by towels, lying
flat on the floor. When my heart stopped pounding I once again heard the peaceful new age music. The instructor
was telling us to love ourselves, to feel our positive wholeness in that special place within. Afterwards, I walked over
to her, feeling dreamy and groggy. “Thank you,” I said. “I really enjoyed that.” “Don’t tell me that was your
first yoga class,” she exclaimed. I was too fuzzy to feel patronized. “That was such a spiritual experience,” I said
to my mother as I limped out to the car. So if you need a break from the stress of
exams and end-of-semester demands, ask me to teach you some yoga moves. You’ll be surprised at the oneness you can
achieve with your body.

you can be on the move!

* Work flexible hours.
* It’s a fun place to work.
* Income varies with hours worked.
* Gas reimbursements included.

Name Delivery Drivers Needed

Papa John’s Pizza, the pizza company on the move, is now hiring delivery drivers. If you are 18 years or
older, have a valid driver’s license, auto insurance, a good driving record, and access to a car,

* Make an average of up to $8 an hour or more.*
* Be part of one of the fastest growing pizza companies!
* A great opportunity for advancement!

Address Phone

Delivering The RefeA Piggal Lake Norman 19700 One Norman Blvd. 896-7272

FREE. Grit 1 99 pe 562 $59 c $4995
