THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1994

Ostrowski details method and use of DNA profiling
By William Robert

Dr. Ron Ostrowski, Visiting Associate Professor of Biology, lectured on “Forensic Use of DNA Profiling” to a crowd of students and faculty Friday afternoon in Dana Science Building. DNA profiling, formerly called DNA fingerprinting, is a relatively new branch of genetics which is growing increasingly more important to forensic scientists and lawyers involved in court cases.

From the blood of the accused to DNA found at the crime scene, it aims to either exclude or include the defendant from those who could have possibly committed the crime. Ostrowski said exclusion means that the DNA gathered as evidence from the crime scene does not match the accused’s DNA. Exclusion is 100 percent accurate. Inclusion occurs when the two genetic samples match; however, this does not prove that the accused is the only possible perpetrator.

The science of DNA profiling combines population genetics with molecular genetics using a number of new experimental methods. In DNA profiling, geneticists cut the sample of DNA into pieces and analyze the pieces using probes, pieces whose genetic structures are known, to find the pieces on the DNA sample which match up with the probes. These processes use methods known as variable number tandem repeats and polymerase chain reaction, the latter of which is a new technique.

Once the individual’s DNA pattern is determined, scientists look at population genetics databases to see how many people of a certain population in a certain area have DNA profiles which match the sample. These databases must be fairly specific in order to get accurate results.

Ostrowski related DNA profiling to the O.J. Simpson trial. He explained how methods of DNA profiling have been used to include O.J. because his blood type alleles match the blood found at the crime scene.

In addition to teaching at Davidson, Ostrowski is Professor of Biology at UNC-Charlotte, where he has taught for over 20 years. He has also testified as an expert witness in genetics and DNA profiling in approximately 25 court cases, including the trial of those responsible for the World Trade Center bombing in New York two years ago.

SGA Supports dropping Presbyterian requirement for college president
Some feel this will undermine college’s ties to Presbyterian church

Church continued from page 4

"Today if it had not wisely shed discriminatory policies.” Intervarsity Planning Team Leader Giorgio Hiatt states, “It should not matter whether or not the president is Presbyterian. The most important characteristics of a president should be a vibrant faith and an ability to marry faith to the rigorous academic ideals of the college.”

Dean of Students Thomas Shandley comments, “Davidson is a remarkably successful and important institution not only to this region but also to this country. We should ask ourselves how much of that importance is due to its guiding principles, such as the affiliation with the church, our Presbyterian alumni, and people who are not even necessarily Presbyterian but believe in Christian values. There is certainly a timeless quality about all that—we must at least pause before changing.”

Facts and Figures: The Presbyterian Church and Davidson

Members of the SGA researched the issue. Freshman Senator Colin Kelly discovered that 429 students are Presbyterian, roughly one fourth of the student body and the largest religious denomination on campus. Onkey found that approximately $20,000 per year is received directly from the church. Also, Onkey noted that eight out of the top ten donors to Davidson are Presbyterian. Independent Senator Johnathan Orr indicated that one out of eight Presbyterian-affiliated colleges requires the president to be Presbyterian. There are approximately 1.5 million Presbyterians in America.

The Davidsonian is looking for a new circulation manager to take over for the spring. Call Leigh if you are interested (2148). This is a paid position, and resumes are welcome.

Less than one percent of the U.S. African-American population is Presbyterian.

President Issue Sent to Trustees

While certain Senators wanted a vote, Rosenbach suggested that a letter be written articulating the opinions of senators both for and against the qualification. Most of the SGA agreed that sending the letter was anEffective solution. Junior Senator Nick Troiano complains that the letter is indecisive. “The SGA does things to send a message, but not the right way. The idea of the letter is a good one, but the SGA acted too quickly. To get a strong message takes time — you can’t just sit and write down the good and bad things about an issue.” Onkey feels strongly that the SGA should have voted on the issue. “By just representing opposing opinion, the SGA has not done its job. We need to attach a vote to the letter, something tangible so the trustees will know and listen.”

Ecumenical Council Chair Lillian Montgomery feels that the letter was an appropriate response, “adequately representing both sides and the variety of responses to the issue,” but the Ecumenical Council independently initiated a petition to estimate the number of students opposed to changing the presidential affiliation requirement. Montgomery reports that approximately 200 students signed the petition, affirming their belief that the Presbyterian heritage is a unique aspect of Davidson. The Ecumenical Council will use the results of the petition in their own communication with the trustees, planning to present the petition along with a letter stating their position to President Kuykendall and then to the trustees.

According to Larry Dagenhart, Secretary to the Board of Trustees, the trustees convene in February for a meeting primarily concerned with the budget and college finances, but are expected to address the issues at their spring retreat. Director of Institutional Research and Assistant to the President Dr. John Kelton concurs: “There is no doubt that the Trustees will not delay unnecessarily in addressing this issue. But as the issue broadens, there is the chance that the board may decide that instead of looking at each issue separately, it would be better to look at the whole package; then they may take a good bit of time to study what it means to be church-related and what Davidson’s practices and policies actually should be.”

Underlying Concerns
Former Dean of Students Will Terry comments, “All together what these things say is that what Davidson wants to do is be different than it has been in the past and be like every other first-class college in the country. I worry about two things, besides the integrity and the continuity of the college: first, attracting students. If we become like everyone else, I’m not sure we can compete. The Ivy League is sexier than we are. Our ace in the hole is our distinctiveness. Secondly, we cannot, through our policies, tell the constituency that has always supported us that we do not care about them anymore.”

Junior Matt Griffith agrees: “What I like about Davidson is that we are the only top 10 school that has not yet sold its soul. I see Davidson as a place that is nurturing to a Christian faith yet not demeaning to other backgrounds, and I think that is the way it should remain.”

Role of the SGA in Religion Debates
Rosenbach maintains that introducing these issues is an important responsibility of the SGA. “When I gave my inaugural speech, the one thing that I asked SGA to do was have a vision of a broader picture of Davidson and Davidson’s future,” says Rosenbach. “So the things that I have tried to do are meant to implement that vision.”

College Chaplain Rob Spach agrees, “I think it is wonderful that the SGA has chosen to address these issues, even if people don’t agree over what the outcome should be. Of course, we wouldn’t want everyone to think the same way. This SGA is fulfilling its role by making suggestions and showing foresight by raising important issues.”