4

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1994

SGA to benefit from new freshmen senators

SGA continued from page 1

made the decision to keep all six on the Council. The top six sophomores, however, had not been informed when
the mistake was discovered, so the SGA re-ran the election on Tuesday, requesting that voters choose four names instead of
six.

The six new junior Honor Council members are: Jason Byassee, Lexy DeVane, Marc LaFrance, Karl Ruch, Alexis West, and Ed
White. The four new sophomore representatives are: Katie Brasfield, Ann Chandler, Jeremy Chason, and Ashley Gribble.

SGA and Honor Council officials don’t think the mix-up is an issue of concern. SGA President Eric Rosenbach says, “The
oversight of a past president will not in any way affect the overall effectiveness of the Honor Council.” Allison Sabel,
SGA Vice-President, says, “Since the council is now larger than before, there are more members to choose from to conduct
trials, and it will be easier than ever to elect representatives who aren’t involved in the case at hand.”

The SGA plans to correct the Honor Council bylaws to reflect the election procedures informally adopted three years ago.

SGA elections
Elections for Independent Senators and freshman Senators were conducted without any problems. Eighteen students competed for the six spaces available
in the freshman Senator. The candidate who received the most votes became the president of the class, and the following
eleven candidates were placed back on the ballot for the runoffs Tuesday.

After the polls closed and ballots were counted, the victors were discovered: Buster Burk, President; Demian Dellinger, Lucian Dervan, Patricia
Evans, Susannah Herndon, and Colin Kelly, senators. Four independent senators were also elected: Saad Gul, President; Disco Dan Mojonnier; Jonathon
Orr and Dennis Seavers.

New Freshman Senator Dervan says, “It has been said that our class had the largest turnout of voters in Davidson’s
history. This doesn’t surprise me. I believe that this class is one of the most unified classes the school has
ever seen.”

The SGA meets on Tuesdays at 9:00 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.

Photo by Brooke McRae

Have an idea for a news story?

Call Ashlyn. -2148.

All Davidson College Students Receive 10% OFF on all Purchases Upon Presentation of Student ID! Off exit 25 Lake Norman-
We Treat You Right Concord

Dairy Queen® stores are proud sponsors of the Children’s Miracle Network Telethon, which benefits local hospitals for children

DOMINO’S

896-8007

Shops on the Green - Cornelius HOURS: 4pm-11pm Sun-Thurs, 4pm-12 midnight Fri-Sat

Call Us!

Participating stores only. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax. Delivery areas and charges may vary. Our drivers carry less
than $20.00. Cash value 1/20¢. ©1994 Domino's Pizza Inc.

LARGE LATE NIGHT SPECIAL

Large 1 topping pizza $6.99 & Cokes 35¢ Additional toppings 50¢ Offer valid Sunday - Thursday 10PM - Midnight

MEDIUM LATE NIGHT SPECIAL

Medium 1 topping pizza $5.25 & Cokes 35¢ Additional toppings 50¢ Offer valid Sunday - Thursday 10PM - Midnight

Wonderful Clothing and Jewelry for Dressy or Sporty Occasions

We Offer Layaway!

106 South Main Street in Davidson Open Mon-Sat 10-6 * Layaway Available
