"SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXV MONDAY, APRIL 11, 1994 NUMBER 23

Court houses fail sanitation inspection
Unofficial study looks at NC health statutes
By William Robert

Fortunately for Davidson fraternities and eating houses, Patterson Court does not have to comply with the state laws concerning sanitation in food handling establishments. If they were evaluated according to the cleanliness standards all other establishments in the state must meet, most of them would lose their permits to serve food.

Patterson Court houses are classified as establishments that both provide lodging and serve food to house members. As such, they are exempt from being graded quarterly by sanitation inspectors from the North Carolina Department of Environmental Health. Only Rusk House would pass an official inspection of this sort, and only then with a "C" rating.

The scores, according to the department’s 1000-point grading system based on 16 criteria, ranged from 644 to 737 for the houses. Any establishment scoring less than 700 points fails the inspection. A 900-point score earns an "A" rating.

A typical meal at one of these houses involves taking a plastic plate, cup, and silverware from stacks of each and serving oneself from food set out on a table in the middle of the dining room. After eating, one scrapes the food left on his plate into a designated garbage can and leaves the plate, cup, and utensils in a stack in the kitchen for student dishwashers to wash in the sink after the meal. While this provides a general overview of the norm, there are a few variations. Kappa Sigma often uses paper plates, which are thrown away at the end of the meal. Rusk House has labeled bins, one each for plates, cups, and silverware. Students in charge of dishwashing at Pi Kappa Alpha are the ones who collect the plates, cups, and utensils.

According to Section 2618 of North Carolina General Statute 130A-249, none of these practices is considered sanitary. It states that “all eating and drinking utensils shall be thoroughly washed, rinsed, and subjected to an approved bactericidal treatment after each usage.” The statute goes on to say that “the supply of eating and drinking utensils shall be of sufficient quantity to allow washing, rinsing, sanitizing, and air-drying before reuse.” This measure is routinely violated by both Kappa Sigma and Pi Kappa Alpha, where silverware shortages sometimes force students either to eat their meals with spoons or to reuse dirty forks.

Sexuality: FLAG, forums, & policies
By Ashlyn Dannelly

In the fall of 1991, student attempts to create a Davidson chapter of Friends of Lesbians and Gays (FLAG) met with equal amounts of opposition and support from students and parents. Two years later, in 1993, the college’s nondiscrimination policy was changed to state: “Davidson College admits qualified students and administers all education and employment activities without discrimination because of sexual orientation, race, color, religion, national origin, age, disability, or sex except where exemption is appropriate and allowed by law.”

This apparent change in the attitudes of the general Davidson population has been catalyzed almost entirely by student-led efforts. The sexuality forum. Meg Jones ’93, night manager of the college Union, was the first openly homosexual student at Davidson College and helped the FLAG chapter obtain its SGA charter. Jones came out publicly in the spring of 1993 at the annual FLAG-sponsored forum discussing sexuality issues.

See FLAG on page 4

Photo by Amy Laukkanen
Even President Kuykendall roasted Dean Terry at his barbecue and square dance Friday night. Tim Sobin, Chris Edmonston, Wendy McHugh, and Bill Gullan are seated at the table.

By Mary Laura Moretz

“I’m still the Dean, and everybody can still be suspended!” spoke Dean Will Terry, laughing, before...his farewell party this past Friday. Free food, dancing, and the sounds of an outdoor band brought the campus together to celebrate and show their thanks for the retiring Dean of Students. The “Celebration 22 Years in the Making” began with a free dinner for students, faculty, and staff on the Chambers lawn. The Commons provided barbecue, garden burgers, and other picnic fixings.

Bidding Dean Terry farewell

After dinner, a panel comprised of students Bill Gullan, Tim Sobon, Chris Edmonston, and Wendy McHugh roasted Dean Terry. President Kuykendall and the Dean himself also contributed witty anecdotes from past and present. In response to many questions as to what Dean Terry will do in his retirement, he said, "I'm going to raise a lot of hell. Next year, I can party with you on the court."

"I hope that I have encouraged students in ways that make them better people," said Terry. "You've become my family."

After the roast, party guests gathered for square dancing called by Dean Terry. The music continued later Friday evening with yet another visit from the band Everything. The party evolved under the direction of student planners with the cooperation and sponsorship of the Union Board, Patterson Court Council, and SGA. Sophomore Cristie Corn said of the party, “I think it says a lot about Davidson that we can all come together like this to say goodbye to someone who has done so much for our school.”

"Thank you all," said Terry.

CLEANING HOUSE

House Score out of 1000 Grade
Rusk 731.5 F
Sig Ep 697 F
Warner Hall 692 F
SAE 690 F
Phi Delt 684 F
Connor 683 F
KA 680 F
Kappa Sig 659 F
PiKA 644 F

Scores are calculated according to the North Carolina Department of Environmental Health Administrative Code, section 2600. A=over 900, B=over 800, C=over 700. Any establishment scoring fewer than 700 points fails.

Regarding the cleansing of plates, cups, and utensils, all of the houses on Patterson Court employ students to wash their dishes at the end of each meal. Therefore, Davidson’s eating houses fall un-

See Court on page 4

Voters elect experienced candidates

By Jay Jennings

Student Government and Honor Council election results suggest that the voters were looking for experienced candidates. All junior and sophomore senators who ran for re-election won. Rising Senior Class President B.J. Rudell looks at the success of the returning senators as a signal that they are taking their job seriously. Along with Rudell, Gautam Srinivasan returns as a senator for the class of 1995, and Chad Lloyd changes from Sig Ep senator to class senator. The class of 1996 re-elected Bo Bartholomew as president with Nick Troiano and Theo Curey filling the other two senatorial spots. Warren Buford will serve as rising sophomore class president. After two days of closely contested run-offs, David Wick and Nicola Hartery also became rising sophomore class senators. The Honor Council representatives for the class of 1997 are Ann Hatfield, Allen Marshall, and Macon Stokes.

Rudell says the high number of returning senators will “enable the SGA to pick up where it left off” and not have to go through a long transitional period. Some of what Rudell hopes to work for in the coming year are improvements in the infirmary, a satisfactory outdoor basketball court, and a Stu-

See Elect on page 2

inside THIS WEEK

First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC 28036

Prep courses

Do preparatory courses really help your scores on exams such as the LSATs, MCATs, and GREs? Students want to know.

OPINIONS 9

Rosie hates you

Shocking in its nature, Rosie's piece this week addresses serious self-esteem issues that have social implications.

Major Art exhibit in the Smith Gallery

ARTS 11