The Davidsonian

LEIGH RAWDON - Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Executive Editor
MANDY CURTIS - Managing Editor
KATHERINE HASH - News Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY - Ass't News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY - Opinions Editor
JOSH LARNED - Arts Editor
SCOTT MCLEAN - Ass't Arts Editor
WILL COBB - Sports Editor
AMY LAUKKANEN - Photography Editor
Founded in 1914 "The South's Foremost College Weekly"
ARTHUR GASTON - Copy Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist
BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES - Ass't Advertising Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN - Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD - Circulation Manager

The tempting course book

By now, many students have a questionnaire, asking them to evaluate their fall semester classes on a scale of one to five. At first glance, the idea of averaging these evaluations and putting them into a book to help students select courses may seem helpful. But we urge students to see the problems that these evaluations could create, before supporting this unnecessary publication.

The Davidson Work Ethic

College is not about finding the easiest path. Students learn as much about handling themselves and their workloads as they do about the subjects of their classes. The Davidson work ethic is no myth, and it is no fluke that Davidson ranks at the top of the workload index year after year. This reputation for working long and hard is something that sets Davidson graduates apart from graduates of other colleges, and we should never take the first fatal step down the road to laziness where the course book promises to take us.

What about the freshmen?

Course book supporters may argue that freshmen don’t have a fair shot at getting good courses and would benefit greatly from a course advice book. But the college already takes steps to take care of freshmen. Upon entering Davidson, freshmen are provided immediately with at least two sources of information on courses: their hall counselors and their freshman advisors. These are the people they turn to for their first drop/add during orientation, and if they make absolutely no upperclass friends during their first semester, they can still turn to these sources of advice for their second semester course registration.

Numbers do not imply accuracy

The rating process, while seemingly scientific, is too subjective to provide a fair picture of professors or their classes. Students’ experiences in classes depend on their expectations, likes and dislikes, and enjoyment of the material. It is virtually impossible for a student to glean from a few numbers what his experience in a class will be. This book would misguide as many students as it would help.

Keep ‘em on the ball

Third, it is a grave misconception that, as B.J. Ruddell put it in an SGA meeting, teacher evaluations will encourage tenured teachers to “stay on the ball.” On the contrary, professor ratings will inevitably drive a wedge between students and teachers. Naturally, professors will resent having the sum total of all their research, lecturing, discussing, grading, and out-of-class help reduced to a number from one to five. We would feel the same alienation were the faculty to publish a book of our grades to pass around to colleagues. The relationships we have with our professors are unique to Davidson, and we should not create a student course book that threatens the personal, respectful interaction between the faculty and students.

We’re not Harvard

Proponents of the new course book plan to model it after the student course evaluation system at Harvard. If Davidson were anything like Harvard, a large university where graduate assistants teach undergraduate courses which often have huge enrollments, we might need a course evaluation system to steer neglected undergraduates along a safe path. But at Davidson, the 1,500 undergraduates are the only students we have, and they are all but neglected. A college student may need a map to navigate the streets of Cambridge, but if we lose our way walking down Main St., Davidson, we need only to stop and ask for directions. But the proposed course book is more than an unnecessary venture that would consume student activity tax money. It threatens to harm the student’s Davidson experience and the fragile system of faculty/student relations that exists on our small campus. While the prospect of having the easy course through Davidson dumped into your lap may sound tempting, be careful. You may get what you wish for.

LETTERS

Unsafe speech

To the editors,

I would like to respond to your editorial piece from last week entitled “Safe speech and free sex” about the cancellation of a Mooresville High School assembly on AIDS. While I admire your writer’s gift for smug sarcasm, in your eagerness to feel superior to the rubes that surround your ivory tower, you neglected to get the facts. Your opinion is obviously based solely on the article that appeared in the Charlotte Observer, in which Principal Sloop was quoted as saying she objected to the use of the word condom. You write: “Without condomness, clearly, there...is no sexuality, and, thus, not even a concept of conception. Therefore Mooresville High students will never have sex, children, or AIDS.” If you had explored the issue more deeply, you would have discovered that the Mooresville Graded School System teaches AIDS awareness in both the seventh and ninth grades, and that high schoolers who choose to take biology have even more. AIDS prevention, including the use of the word condom, is taught along guidelines set by North Carolina. Furthermore, Supt. Carrigan’s statement that, in a general assembly, “You don’t have control over what people say,” is not an attempt to squash free speech, as you very unsubtly imply, but rather was generated by a concern that, in an assembly of hundreds, there is no generally accepted proper terminology. With all of the frank sexual terms that are sometimes associated with the disease, why take a chance on offending a quarter or half of the audience when the subject can be discussed in smaller, easily teachable classroom groups? It can be argued, in fact, that in more intimate groups students will be less inhibited in asking the questions that may someday save their lives. Perhaps the editorialist’s experience is one of a homogeneous and like-thinking student body, but in the real world each family has unique and widely different ideas about what and in what manner its children should be taught. Some parents may be in favor of an assembly and, sadly, some parents may not even want AIDS mentioned around their child. But educators like Carrigan and Sloop have to respect all of these different viewpoints. Perhaps the editors of “The South’s Foremost College Weekly” could take a lesson from them.

Sincerely,
Steve Eury, Cornelius

No ticket scandal

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year.

Advertising

To the editors,

This letter is written in response to the article by Carrie Blackburn regarding ticketing policies to the Southern Conference Basketball Tournament. I normally refrain from taking the bait in the press but the notion of a “ticket scandal” at Davidson is so preposterous that I feel compelled to respond. Let me set the facts straight. In December, Davidson was sent 418 ticket books and a bill for nearly $22,000 payable to the Southern Conference. All ten conference members receive the same treatment. Very few schools, notably ETSU, UTC, and Marshall, until very recently have sold out their allotment. The others as a rule have tried to figure out how to avoid losing a tremendous amount of money by selling tickets to those three schools. Davidson was able to sell only thirty ticket books in 1993 and thus incurred a loss in excess of $15,000. When Terry Holland was approached by ETSU in December with an offer to buy some of our allotment, we decided to sell 144 seats (not 200, as published in your headline) in a section which our few ticket-holders last year reported to be unsatisfactory, thus saving the college a potential loss of $8,000. Based upon prior interest, it was absolutely a correct business decision. Demand increased in February in direct proportion to our great court performances and ultimately outstripped our supply. At that point, Davidson College became a ticket buyer instead of a seller. We bought three additional installments totaling 87 ticket books from Western Carolina to cover our orders. Thus, the net reduction from our original installment of 418 was only 57 seats, and Davidson finished third behind ETSU and UTC in paid attendance. As reported accurately in your article, the tournament at best is a losing proposition financially because Davidson must pay $55 per ticket book to cover complimentary tickets for the families of the basketball team, as permitted by NCAA rules. Don’t get me wrong. We are tremendously proud of our players and we are happy to offer these tickets, but the allotment system requires that we exercise good business judgment with the remainder of the tickets.

Sincerely,
Lee Sargent
Athletic Ticket Manager

Rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Subscribe to The Davidsonian.
One year $32.50
Spring Semester $15.00
Send checks payable to The Davidsonian to P.O. Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036.