Will Terry as a dashing young freshman buck. Contender. Knew better. My nephew called last week. Would I write a piece to be published in this paper regarding Dean Terry’s retirement? Dean Terry? Retirement? My mind flashed back to a scene outside the Charlotte Colosseum in 1969. My friend Nelson Abell, Nelson’s 13-year-old brother Dixon, Will, and I were headed in to watch Lefty Driesell’s last Davidson team play another Top Ten. Walking behind Dean Terry (and in full view of his handsome head of hair), Dixon pulled me aside to ask confidentially, “What did Mr. Terry do before he retired?” Gales of laughter. Will still thinks I made it up.

Late the next year, Will called me at law school to say he was leaving the pulpit at the College church to fill the vacancy in the Dean of Students office. “Sam Spencer has asked me to do this, but I told Sam I would limit my tenure to five years,” he said. I knew immediately that it would work. He said he would only stay five years. His friends, my classmates, and those in the late 1960s who preceded us knew him not as “Dean Terry,” but as Will. Just Will. In a sense, we were Will’s training ground for his Deanship. His house (the red brick parsonage on Concord Road) was our hangout—the place where we studied, relaxed, ate, slept, and had impromptu gatherings. His door was never locked, and we found his heart and his mind were, likewise, always open. We knew Will as counselor, mentor, pastor, and friend, and he honored us with his confidence. His talents for the Dean’s office were obvious.

In the intervening years, and over great distances, Will has continued his strong relationships with former students. Marriages, funerals, baptisms, and vacation holidays have always found Will in attendance. In so many ways, Will has never ceased to leave his door unlocked. And Will’s ministry is by no means confined to Davidson. Many of us have seen him connect with others in the most common of circumstances. I guess your five years as Dean are up now, Will. It may be time for me to call Dixon Abell and tell him what you did before you retired.

Becomes minister of DCPC, only to discover with disappointment that DCPC does not stand for "Delinquent Chaplains on Patterson Court.” President Sam Spencer asks Terry to become Dean of Students, a position he claims he will hold for only five years. Terry is awarded a Doctor of Divinity from Union Seminary. (Yes, he is really Dr. Terry.) After 23 years, having served the longest tenure of any Davidson Dean of Students, Dean Terry retires.

I have often tried to envisage a Davidson without Dean Terry, and I must confess that, try as I might, that particular picture refuses to come into focus. Instead, as I cast my mind back over the six years or so that I’ve known the man, a kaleidoscope of images seems to coalesce about that bespectacled benevolence riding shotgun on my Davidson experience. In some strange and magical way, Will indelibly etched the quirks of his personality upon the strands woven into the Davidson fabric. There were times when his compassion and his foresight were the even keels that kept the ship from capsizing. There were also times when his obdurate insistence on form and established pattern precipitated conflict and tension. In many ways, he truly came to represent the changing Davidson.

Living in and serving a community that by its very nature tended to be transitory and, often, quite ungrateful? Was it that he found fulfillment in seeing some diffident freshman blossom into maturity and be-of Davidson, struggling to reconcile the mores and practices of years past with an environment in a state of flux, constantly demanding “understanding,” “correctness,” and “awareness,” and petulantly citing (perceived) slights and injury. In some strange and magical way, Will indelibly etched the quirks of his personality into the Davidson fabric. I have often wondered what it was that brought him back to Davidson each fall. What could possibly motivate a man to spend the better part of thirty-odd years contributing meaningfully to the lives of those around him? Was it the satisfaction of knowing that the mass of caps being hurled into the air at the end of another graduation ceremony represented another generation that would cherish the contrary images of the stern disciplinarian introducing the Honor System at Davidson, and the caller at the square-dance at orientation? Or was it simply an acknowledgment of a “calling” that transcended self-indulgent impulse, demanding a lifetime of commitment and sacrifice?

In the time that I have been away from Davidson, far removed from that protective cocoon, I have had cause to reflect upon the generosity, the warmth, and the fellowship which I once took for granted. I believe that Will played a major role in nurturing and sustaining that part of the Davidson experience. Through word and deed, he preached a gospel that often found a reluctant (and occasionally, a resentful) audience. He challenged us to dig deep and to find in ourselves what was good and bright. He compelled us to preserve what was noble and pure and to cede that which was petty and base — and we are all stronger, better people for it.

Will, we wish you all the very best. We thank you for all the years and the effort you invested in us. We hope that the years ahead will be filled with all the peace and the happiness that you could possibly wish for. But know this: Davidson will be a vastly diminished place for your absence, and we, infinitely poorer.

So long, Dean. “Next year?” exclaimed Dean Terry at his roast two weeks ago. “Don’t ask me that, because I don’t know. What I do know is that I’m going to raise some hell.” When Dean Terry walks out of his office for the last time, Davidson will lose a disciplinary and persuasive force in its administration that has directed Davidson’s progress in many ways for the past 23 years. But as Davidson releases him, we will also be unleashing him, and anyone who thinks Davidson will lose Will Terry at the end of the 1994 school year is sorely mistaken. Yes, we will lose our beloved Dean, and we will miss him. But when the title of Dean is passed on, something tells me we’ll see a freshman Will all over again. History does tend to repeat itself. Think about it. He has a house all to himself off-campus. He’s over 21. (Just a little bit.) It’s been a while since the last time he could throw a real party, and if anyone knows how to get around Davidson’s various policies, he does.

The coming years will be a better time than ever to get to know the man who has made such a difference in the lives of so many Davidsonians. He will no longer be Dean of Students, but that doesn’t mean that he won’t still love them. Saturday, Dean Terry said that he might, one day, have to return to the Dean’s office. Before I had a chance to catch on, I said, “Really, Dean Terry?” with front-page headlines dancing in my head. Then came the smug grin we all know well, the one that tells you the punchline is soon on its way, and he exclaimed, “No, boy! 'Cause I'm gonna be the one in trouble!"

-Alex Crumbley

Photo by Robert Ramsay