6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

The Week in Hollywood

Some thoughts on Schindler's List

By Brett Marston

Unanimous acclaim across the U.S., Schindler’s List promises to be one of the most important cinematic portrayals of the Holocaust ever produced. At least two German newspapers have reviewed Schindler’s List and also given it high praise. Monika Zeigler’s article in Die Wochenpost from December 29th of last year remains mostly descriptive except for one interesting paragraph. “Spielberg must have set to work like a man possessed,” she writes after describing the positive critical response to the movie in the U.S. “With documentary precision, he brings the evil before our eyes—shootings, executions, the unbridled caprice of the SS soldiers, and equally as immediately and convincingly the resistance of one German, Oskar Schindler.”

Andreas Kilb’s review in the January 28th issue of Die Zeit is more interesting and insightful than Zeigler’s article. The title, “Waiting until Spielberg Comes,” mirrors Kilb’s concern that the Germans have yet to deal sufficiently with this part of their history. “With Schindler’s List,” writes Kilb, “Spielberg has done that which no European or American director has yet been able to do: to transform the story of the ghettos and concentration camps into a cinematic fiction without distorting it with kitschy or cheaply brutal effects.”

“Considering Schindler’s List,” Kilb continues, “one must ask oneself why not one of the truly significant films which deal with the horrible chapter of recent German history has come from Germany.” Referring to the television film Holocaust, which aired on German television in 1979 and helped stir widespread public debate about Germany’s national socialist past, Kilb writes further, “with Spielberg’s film, Hollywood deals with (bewältigt) German history a second time, and the Germans, the true masters in letting their history pass them by, look on.”

How will German audiences receive Schindler’s List? Probably without the same unambiguous enthusiasm which American critics and audiences have shown. In most every review I have read, critics have shown genuine respect for Spielberg because of the mature way in which he has brought the Holocaust to the screen. There are nonetheless two points which most critics seem to overlook.

First of all, although Schindler’s List itself is convincing (with the possible exception of the portrayal of Schindler, who sometimes remains flat), the packaging and selling of the movie lay bare some troubling characteristics of Hollywood. The television commercials are disturbing for their simplistic representation of the themes of the movie. Further, some theaters—including the Arboretum—have shown this movie in the usual way, with previews for the latest steamy, action-packed flicks commanding the audience’s attention for fifteen minutes before the opening scene, which thus flounders under the contradiction.

Secondly, the fact that we need Spielberg to tell us a convincing story about the Holocaust should make us worry about the way our society constructs history. “As a contribution to popular culture,” writes John Gross in a review in the New York Review, “[Schindler’s List] can only do good. Holocaust denial may or may not be a major problem in the future, but Holocaust ignorance, Holocaust forgetfulness, and Holocaust indifference are bound to be, and Schindler’s List is likely to do as much as any single work can do to dispel them.”

What concerns me is the damning observation underlying this argument: that education about this subject does not primarily take place in schools and universities, in civic and religious groups, in families, and in local libraries, so that we must rely on the entertainment industry to keep alive stories about the Holocaust. Perhaps this troubling situation compelled some to create the Holocaust memorials in Washington and Los Angeles. Ultimately, how we remember, discuss, and portray this horrible chapter of history will reveal and to an extent determine the essence of our humanity. Should we trust Hollywood to guard Holocaust memories for us?

The Dean Rusk Program

Don't look now—the Old Order makes a comeback in Russia

By Gautam Srinivasan

The results of recent elections and the strong showing of Russia’s old hard-liners shakes Western confidence in Yeltsin and the reform movement. When Eastern Europe broke away from Soviet control and the Soviet Union itself dissolved, the Cold War was considered over. Western politicians and thinkers celebrated the triumph of democracy and the free market believing that our “superior” systems had defeated Communism once and for all. The people of the old Communist world would soon enjoy the benefits the West had known for years. But strange things have happened on the way to wonderland in Russia.

Although Russian citizens have warmed up to democracy, their move to an open market has been hesitant. Economic reforms have been half-hearted and faced opposition in the face of the old order. The economy has gone into a tailspin. Boris Yeltsin replaced Gorbachev promising to speed reforms, but the economic slide has continued. With no end to the pain in sight, ex-Communists and anti-reformers have begun to pick up support. Nostalgia for the old days when basic needs were provided for have fueled the old order comeback.

The recent Russian elections are yet another sign of the troubled water. The results of the election, held in mid-December, do not bode well for Yeltsin and the reformers. Yeltsin’s party, Russia’s Choice, and other reform parties hold only a 35% bloc of Russia’s new Parliament. The rest is controlled by a variety of parties with different goals. The Russian Unity and Accord Party wants to slow down reform; the Agrarian Partywants to limit reforms; others oppose reform completely. While Yeltsin does have several friendly parties in Parliament, it is clear that he will face many uphill struggles in a possibly unfriendly Parliament. Perhaps the most tangible evidence of Russian frustration is Vladimir Zhirinovsky and his ironically named Liberal Democratic Party. Their goals fly in the face of Yeltsin’s reforms and are enough to cause considerable concern in the West. In a time of economic hardship, Zhirinovsky’s extreme nationalist rhetoric has captured many Russians. He has called for a Russian reconquest of the Soviet Union and has threatened to seize Finland, slice up Poland, and even retake Alaska. While he may sound like a man with a few screws loose to us, his words hit home with many Russians. They are angry that their once mighty country, indeed one of the world’s superpowers, is now in shambles and looking to the West for help.

What does this mean for the United States? The election results did initially surprise the White House, but radical policy changes are not likely to follow. Until now, the U.S. has firmly stood behind Boris Yeltsin as Russia’s best hope. Strobe Talbott, the President’s chief Russia aide, continues to push this stance. Undoubtedly, Talbott will eventually have to deal with the question of how much assistance to offer Russia. While the White House has been quick to talk about the importance of democracy and a free market, economic help has been slow to follow. At some point, the U.S. will have to beef up its role. If the economy continues to flounder, Zhirinovsky will have ample frustration with which to feed his nationalist talk.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1994

NOTES

Ills that don’t exist

“Is there a health care crisis? Ask most Americans and the answer, most assuredly, is yes. Ask, then, the nature of the crisis and you venture onto trembling earth. Polls repeatedly confirm the existence of a ‘health care crisis.’ But when asked to define it, a gap emerges between the public’s assessment of the crisis and the Clinton administration’s. Americans have high regard for the quality of care and generally feel more secure about their own circumstances than generic responses to ‘crisis’ questions would suggest.” 
-a column in the Perspective section of the Sunday, January 30 issue of The Atlanta Journal/Constitution.

Guilty until proven innocent

“Singer Michael Jackson is paying out a multi-million dollar settlement to the teenager who sued him for alleged child molestation. That confirms what we knew long ago: that the entertainer was guilty as sin. As for figure skater Tonya Harding, of course she was behind the plot to injure opponent Nancy Kerrigan. What is the U.S. Olympic Committee waiting for? Take a poll and toss her off the team already. Of course, we are being facetious. We have become uneasy about the tone, if not the zealousness, of the rush to judgment on people—including celebrities who are public figures—for supposed criminal acts.” 
-from an editorial in Baltimore’s Sun, Saturday, January 29.

Patrick’s nomination

“President Clinton has finally chosen someone for the post of assistant attorney general to head the Justice Department’s civil rights division: 37-year-old Deval L. Patrick. It has taken much too long to fill this job, a fact that should trouble many others besides the most active supporters of civil rights. The risk in moving at such a glacial pace has had to do not just with policy vacuums and problems in administration. It has also carried the suggestion—we suspect unintended—that the administration was indifferent to the issues at stake.” 
-from an editorial in the Thursday, February 3 issue of The Washington Post.

A new ‘genetic era’?

“Every week, we read of the latest advance in genetics. But the news is often less exciting than bewildering. We are deluged with stories about the importance of genetic explanations, then warned that the ability to identify genetic diseases is far ahead of therapeutic possibilities. There are stories extolling the benefits of predictive testing, and stories decrying the risks of gathering genetic information, like the loss of privacy. We are told that this is the dawn of a new genetic era, and cautioned about an impending eugenic nightmare. Images of the gene are appearing not only in news reports but in magazines and on television, in advertising copy and books on child care. Human beings in all their social and moral complexity are equated with their DNA; and the gene, a biological entity, has become a cultural icon invested with social meaning.” 
-from the Op-ed page of The New York Times, Fri., February 4.

The Beauty Myth

“Tonya [Harding] loyalists are absolutely right in noting that women who win [advertising] endorsements fit a too narrow pretty feminine Dorothy Hamill, Chris Evert and yes, Nancy Kerrigan. No tough girls need apply. But the sorriest spectacle is not just Tonya versus Nancy, or Nike versus Reebok. It's the grand slam takeover by companies that award the real gold medals. In this world, every accomplishment has the same value: a market value. What you can do is only worth what you can sell.” 
-Ellen Goodman, an associate editor of The Boston Globe, from the Viewpoint page of The Charlotte Observer, Saturday, February 5.

People really hate Congress

“WASHINGTON.—The Raleigh-based National Congressional Club has a new name—the National Conservative Club. When a lady wrote me and said, 'I won't support any organization with the word ‘Congress’ in it,' I knew it was time for the National Congressional Club to change its name," club Executive Director Carter Wrenn wrote to contributors last week. 
-John Monk, from the Charlotte Observer, Saturday, February 5.