THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, AUGUST 29, 1994

Love of Learning enjoys another successful summer
By Mary Clare Jalonick

This July, Davidson hosted the Love of Learning program for the eighth year. African-American high school students from the Charlotte area lived in Cannon for four weeks and took classes on campus. The program focuses on developing the intellectual, physical, and spiritual aspects of each teenager. The program focuses on the recruitment and retention of minority students by colleges and universities.

The students had classes each day from 7:45 a.m. through 8:30 p.m., taught mostly by Charlotte area high school teachers. The classes prepare the teenagers in oral and written English, mathematical skills, scientific inquiry, SAT preparation, and personal development.

Freshmen Claytonia Boular and Krissie Johnson graduated from the Love of Learning program this past summer. As they begin their careers at Davidson as college students, they appreciate the self-confidence that the program instilled. Boular said that Love of Learning encouraged her to "always strive for the best and to not give up."

Love of Learning is a five-year program which begins in the eighth grade, although most students are 10th, 11th, and 12th graders. The teenagers, mostly from single-parent homes, are involved in summer and academic programs until the summer before their freshman year in college.

Junior Lillian Montgomery worked as a hall counselor for Love of Learning this year. She lived with the students and “interacted with them constantly.” Montgomery valued the experience, for she seemed to benefit as well. “I learned a lot about teenagers and meeting them where they are.”

When asked if she would recommend the program to others, Krissie Johnson said, "Definitely."

Photo courtesy of Love of Learning
Love of Learning director Brenda Tapia and North Carolina congressman Mel Watt congratulate Krissie Johnson, who receives her diploma recognizing her completion of the Love of Learning program. Johnson is now a freshman at Davidson.

Students shovel their way through Cyprus in search of artifacts
By Andrew Smitherman

Davidson classes rarely require students to implement tools such as picks or trowels and only occasionally lead students to a classroom snugly situated in a valley of barley being laid to waste by searing summer temperatures of 40 degrees Celsius. These conditions, however, typify much of what is Davidson’s summer Classics program in Cyprus. During the six-week summer class, students participate in an archaeological field school, study the history of the people of Cyprus, and find themselves completely immersed in a beautiful and unique Mediterranean culture which causes the bitter conditions to melt.

July Experience opens campus to prospectives
By Anna Gray Anderson

“Ordering pizza at 11:00 pm, playing tennis, working out at Baker, and shooting pool in the union - what an exhausting experience!” July Experience counselor Wendy McHugh talks about her summer at Davidson. On July 10, eighty rising high school seniors joined McHugh and a Davidson staff at the College for a three-week academic program. Directed by Evelyn Gerdes and Sterling Martin, the program exposed the campers to the expanse...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

of activities which Davidson offers. Each participant took two classes taught by Davidson professors. Though the students worked hard, they found plenty of time for fun. A square dance called by Will Terry, a trip to Carowinds, and a climb down the rappelling tower were the highlights. With the help of ten Davidson students who served as counselors, the July Experience campers viewed a microcosm of life at Davidson. They left with a heightened understanding of the high quality and unique environment which Davidson embodies.

The program is based in the village of Athienou which is situated between two of the largest and most important cities of Cyprus: Larnaca and the capital, Nicosia. The site encompasses nearly 2600 years of settlement, Cypro-Archaic (650 BCE) to the early 20th Century, and has been titled Malloura according to references. The archaeological team was composed of thirty individuals. Thirteen students from Davidson, Ohio State, and Kenyon College participated in the actual field school, while the remaining individuals were field supervisors and specialists (including ceramicists, artists, and flora and fauna specialists). The team faced workdays beginning at 6 a.m. and ending at 2 p.m. After working in the field, students were required to either wash pottery or complete paperwork. Classes were generally scheduled three times weekly and centered on such topics as Cypriot history or archaeological technique. Nonetheless, students managed to relax in the warm atmosphere of local cafes.

Dr. Michael K. Toumazou, Davidson professor and excavation director, comments that the Project experienced a productive season. The discovery of two life-size portions of statuary proved expectations of the staff to be true. Also, the site was visited by the director of the Cypriot Department of Antiquities. The director was extremely impressed with the program and declared the excavation to be an official and observable archaeological monument. Now the site will receive government protection and support. Davidson will hopefully host the director of Cypriot Antiquities in October as a guest speaker.

LIVE MONDAY presents Awareness Art Ensemble. Monday, September 5th, 900 Room, 9:30. Absolutely Free.

Davidson’s program has found a home in Athienou. The townspeople are both proud of previous work and excited about future finds. The residents of Athienou welcome students in all capacities. Daily needs such as bread, board, or transportation were donated by the local people. Often students and staff would find themselves treated to free meals due to the gratitude of individuals of the town. The team was always invited to participate in local weddings and celebrations. The students were entreated to treat Athienou as much a home as the residents themselves.

ZZQAMA Pizza (and pan pizza), Stromboli & Calzones, Pizza Rolls, Cold Subs, Salads, Specialty Pizzas. WELCOME FRESHMEN!!! Pool Tables Coming Soon. Open 7 days. Phone: (704) 892-4570. Free Delivery. 10% off for senior citizens and Davidson students. Take out or eat in. Notice: (please call ahead for pickups): Monday 4:00 P.M. - 1:00 A.M., Tuesday - Saturday 11:00 A.M. - 1:00 A.M., Sunday 4:00 P.M. - 10:00 P.M. 211 N. Griffith Street, Located in Sadler Square, Davidson, NC 28036.