12

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING, MONDAY, MARCH 7, 1994

J.C. Smith jazz ensemble performs music in Union

By Laura Liebfried

The sounds of blasting trombones, blazing trumpets, and wailing saxophones permeated the walls of a near-empty 900 Room last Tuesday
evening as the Johnson C. Smith Jazz Ensemble performed an astounding set of jazz standards and ballads.

“We’re here to educate you tonight,” ensemble leader Duncan C. Gray proclaimed. “There is not that much of an ear
listening to jazz these days.” Looking around at the size of the audience, I couldn’t help but agree. With that,
the band launched into a handful of old Big Band charts—“Girl Talk,” “Salt Peanuts,” “Green Dolphin Street,” and “Afterglow,” to
name a few—swinging the quaint audience right out of their seats.

The ensemble began six years ago as a combo at JCSU. Today, it boasts a lively group of twenty talented
musicians, many of whom are music majors. Several of the students were given a chance to play solos and improvise
within the various pieces. Gray commented, “One unique quality about jazz is it allows the soloists to speak to the
audience. Miles Davis spoke a great deal through his instrument.”

The Johnson C. Smith players’ excitement about jazz was more than evident on March 1: heads bobbing, feet tapping, fingers
snapping, and hands flying over frets and keys and valves. They produced sounds that left an unmistakable electricity in the
air: the electricity of jazz. Davidson’s very own Student Health Counselor Art Flagg led the ensemble on saxophone in a
passionate rendition of “My Funny Valentine,” my personal favorite piece of the evening. Gray’s parting words were this: “Jazz is
one of the few actual American art forms in America today. Support that art form, so that we don’t lose
it in some type of way. Support jazz.” I couldn’t agree with him more.

Photo by Amy Laukkenan

The jazz band played in the 900 Room for 21-year-old night. Those who attended enjoyed the sounds of trumpets, trombones,
saxophones, and more.

Even without recognition, country is still proud

country continued from page 11

some sort of conspiracy.

I have only one more travesty to condemn: Lucinda Williams’ “Passionate Kisses” won for best song and songwriter (again in
country, country, country). Now I admit, it’s a great song performed by a talented artist (Mary Chapin Carpenter), but truthfully,
how country is it? It comes far too close to pop to win any awards in a country category. Radney
Foster is the rightful owner of this award for “Easier Said than Done.” Radney’s the man with the great song.
Lucinda is not.

I don’t know why I care about these dumb awards anyway. When stupid people vote, stupid songs win. That’s all
there is to it. Besides, I have more important things to relate.

Remember way back around December 13, 1993. You might have read a certain article by a certain writer about a
certain country music phenom named George Ducas (the author of “Just Call Me Lonesome”).

Well, I just returned from Nashville where I happened, by chance, to run into George again. Apparently, he’s going into
the studio this month to start recording his album. Sorry folks, you won’t have a chance to see him up
close and personal in a bar-type atmosphere ever again... Or will you?

I happened to mention to George that we’d love to see him here at tiny little Davidson College before he
hops on the tour bus in September. “Give me a date” was all he said.

Now, things are still in the planning stages—he’s not sure when he’ll finish recording—but if he can make it before
exams, we will see George Ducas at Davidson. Don’t hold your breath just yet, but the chances look good.

Sorry to unload that little tidbit on you. I only hope you can still concentrate on your studies despite the
debilitating anticipation. Until next time, take care. Country, country, country, country, country, country...

WHERE YOU WORK WHEN YOU GET OUT OF COLLEGE DEPENDS ON WHAT YOU DO NOW.

Consider an INTERNSHIP in Philadelphia.

Recent Davidson participants:
Michael Amaditz, Intern, Foote, Cone & Belding
Tad Brown, Assistant to Psychiatrist, City Hall
Cliff Casteiloe, Legal Intern, PA Attorney General’s Office
Fred Hsuan, Research Assistant, Integra, Inc.
Candace Worth, Production Intern, Arden Theater

In addition to working at their job placements, your classmates also participate in academic seminars. They gain independent living skills,
experience the diversity of urban living, and develop professionally; ALL WHILE EARNING CREDIT FOR A FULL SEMESTER.

GLCA Philadelphia Center

GRADUATE WITH EXPERIENCE.

For more information, contact Ken Wood, Office of Experiential Programs. 1227-29 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19107; tel. (215) 574-9490; fax
(215) 574-0563
