THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, APRIL 11, 1994

~ And the freshman writing award winners are...

By Scott McLean

The crème de la crème of freshmen writers at Davidson, along with faculty and members of the community, gathered together
this past Thursday night for the announcement of the annual Freshmen Writing Award winners. The award is given in memory
of R. Windley Hall '63, by his family and friends to those who show the most promise in poetry, non-fiction,
or fiction.

Judging this year’s entries was Dannye Romine Powell, a columnist for the Charlotte Observer who is about to publish a
compilation of her interviews with a number of renowned Southern authors. Powell shared with the audience the advice she had
reaped from her interviews on how a writer can keep his work from being boring: Trust your subconscious (Eudora Welty),
write to please yourself (T.R. Pierson), a good piece of writing should be able to be read aloud and enjoyed
(Kay Gibbons), and a writer should always try to follow his own passions (Doug Marlett).

Commenting that this year’s entries were anything but boring, Powell announced the winners. Honorable mentions went to Nicholas Marston (fiction),
Kristen Richardson (non-fiction), and Ashley Wright (poetry). There was a tie for second place between Jennifer McGillan for her poem
“The Love Song of Hortense P. Willard” and John Cowan, who wrote an essay about his barber entitled, surprisingly enough,
“More than Just a Barber.” This year’s first place winner was John Copenhaver. John wrote a fictional story about a
man returning to his prep school haunts called “And Seven to Go On.”

Awards for upperclassmen will be handed out on April 19 when North Carolina author and Cornell professor Robert Morgan will
be the guest. All writing enthusiasts should attend this event to hear excerpts from the winning entries. If the awards
were any indication of the talent here, you might say, “I knew them when....”

Special Announcement: Irish Poet Seamus Heaney will give a poetry reading. The internationally recognized Irish poet will speak at 7:30
p.m., on April 29, in the 900 room of the Union.

Exhibit mostly Kim continued from page 10

In La Cantatrice Chauve, an allusion to Ionesco’s The Bald Soprano, the artist exposes the “absurdity of a mechanized, impersonal
society.” No Depth Perception, a lithograph, again comments on mechanized society, as Kim portrays an individual whose face is smashed
against a photocopier by the machine world. Both works make a powerful statement on the individual and his/her enslavement to
the machines of modern society.

The exhibit is composed primarily of still-lifes and self-portraits. Much of his work is representational in nature. Using bright colors
and bizarre combinations of objects, Kim escapes purely representational reality.

Photo by Les Buchanan
David Kim and his self-portrait. Kim's exhibition of 12 paintings will be on display in the Smith Gallery until April
22.

"Indian Outlaw" remains number one song

Radio continued from page 10

for the truck. But, honestly, who could imagine my big, blue Wagoneer with a good stereo? Currently, our only option
is to pack up for the small-town American South. I was born in Atlanta, and Davidson's the only other place
I ever really lived. All I knew until this trip was big city radio. Don’t get me wrong—I knew good
country existed. I just thought it seldom made it.to the airwaves. Well, the kindly folks of South Georgia, Middle Alabama,
and Northern Mississippi opened my eyes. I heard Keith Whitley, old George Jones, Patsy Cline, great Dwight Yoakum, and Buck
Owens. I heard the Judds singing “Give a Little Love” on the radio for the first time since Naomi left
the music industry. I heard Marty Robbins’ “El Paso” for the first time since my childhood! They even threw in
some Eagles and Allman Brothers from time to time. No lists governed these stations’ airwaves. They just played good music.
And if the music wasn’t enough, the DJs won our hearts. In between songs we heard announcements of which local
teens will be lifeguarding the county pool this summer and updates on the local baseball game. Even though many stations
have ranges extending for about twenty or so miles, the next town will invariably have something similar. Only this time,
you’ll be hearing about the grand opening of Stella’s beauty salon and Mrs. Dyer’s pecans for sale—six dollars a grocery
bag. Well, I’m back at Davidson, and the radio’s still the same. I think the number-one song in Charlotte this
week is “Indian Outlaw” and it makes me sick. The number-one in Selma right now is probably “Chill of an
Early Fall.” Alas, what can I do but pop in George Strait’s “Greatest Hits Volume One” and daydream of a
happier time in a happier place?

Looking for a Summer Job? Want to Spend Your Summer on Campus? The Davidson College Admissions Office is looking for
students to work from 8:30 to 5:00, Mondays through Thursdays this summer. Employment includes conducting tours of the campus and
working with computers. To apply or ask questions, please call Judy in Admissions at x2044.

New Spring & Summer Party Clothes and Sportswear at Great Prices! 106 South Main Street, Davidson (704) 896-8860 Open Mon-Sat
10-6 • Layaway Available

Calendar

ON THE SCENE

TUESDAY APRIL 12
- Coffeehouse. 900 Room, 8:30-11:00 a.m.
- Medieval Society. Phi Hall, upstairs. Tuesday at 7:00 p.m. Calling all knights.
- Eumenean Society. EU Hall, upstairs. 7:30-9:00 p.m.
- Dr. Conrad Hyers. Bible and Humor. 900 Room, 7:30 p.m.
- Twenty-One Year Olds Night. 900 Room. Tuesday, 10:00 p.m.-12:30 a.m.

WEDNESDAY APRIL 13
- Crop Lunch. 900 Room, 11:30 a.m.-1:00 p.m.
- One Act Plays. Black Box Theater, Cunningham. Chamber Music and Albee’s Zoo Story will be presented April 13 and
14 at 7:30 p.m.

THURSDAY APRIL 14
- Much Ado About Nothing. 900 Room, 9:30 p.m.
- Dinner Outside the Commons. Entertainment by guitarist David Lamotte. 5:30 p.m.
- Paul Tucker. Art History Lecture. Chambers Gallery, 7:30 p.m.

FRIDAY APRIL 15

SATURDAY APRIL 16

SUNDAY APRIL 17
- Jackopierce. Richardson Field, 3-6 p.m.
- International Ball. Celebrate Spring Frolics with a South American Theme. 900 Room, 9 p.m.-1 a.m.
- Midnight Breakfast. Union Outpost.
- Student Concert. Performance of Bach by Davidson piano students. Hodson Hall, Cunningham, 4-5:30 p.m.
- Alex McMillan, Mel Watt, Bill Hefner. Representing Davidson in Congress, Chambers Gallery, 8-10 p.m.

MONDAY APRIL 18
- Recital. Performance of pieces by Davidson faculty composers Richard Prior and Jennifer Stasack. Hodson Hall, Cunningham, 8-9 p.m.
- Rear Window. Vail Commons Patio. 2-6 p.m.
- Jumping Java Cafe. International Coffeehouse. Union Outpost, 2-6 p.m.
- Star Trek Convention. Grady Cole Center, Charlotte. Meet Capt. Kirk! Call 455-1552.
- Much Ado About Nothing. 900 Room, 8 p.m.
- The O’Jays with Levert and the Whispers. Independence Arena, Charlotte. Call 522-65500 for tickets.
