SPORTS

After falling short in their sea- never looked back. They went on to

THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1994 15

Cat Nips

Women’s hoops begin

College bowl predictions

By Krisy Ford

By Will Cobb

Last Saturday marked the end of the 1994 college football regular season. Once again, sports fans can look forward to
the holiday season for the always entertaining and time-consuming bowl games. Ever since Georgia Tech and Colorado shared the national
title four years ago, there has been an ongoing controversy concerning how to determine a clear-cut champion. This year is
no different than the past. Two teams remain undefeated, ranked number 1 and 2 respectively, but will not face each
other in the postseason. Penn State and Nebraska have gone through their respective schedules without a loss or tie. The
Nittany Lions were ranked first at one time this season, but lost their seat on the throne because Indiana scored
two late touchdowns to make a blowout look seemingly close. Nebraska defeated Colorado soundly and hasn’t looked back since.

I think what happened last year will happen this year. The best team in college football will not get the
national championship. Notre Dame was the best team last year, and Penn State is the best team this year. But
the media holds the fate, and when it comes down to it, they will favor poor old Tom Osborne over
Bobby Bowden.

There are 18 bowl games on tap this holiday season, and only two of them involve any sort of title
hopes, so let’s look at some others. For what it is worth, here’s what I think will happen, but don’t
be so quick to run to your bookie with these predictions:

Aloha Bowl
Kansas State vs. Boston College

Senior Chad May will wrap up his brilliant college career with a trip to the island state. The Wildcats have
had a strong year, with losses to the #1 and #5 teams in the country. They deserve to be in
a bowl with a higher profile, but they will enjoy roughing up Boston College for their first 10-win season in
my memory. They have an explosive offense with a defense the Eagles will have trouble moving the ball against. Boston
College will bring a well-coached squad that should keep the score tight for most of the game, but not at
the end. Kansas State by 10.

Gator Bowl
Tennessee vs. Virginia Tech

This very well could be one of the better games during the postseason. The Volunteers are on a roll and
freshman Peyton Manning seems to look better and better each game. The Hokies started strong, but ended their season in
a tailspin and might not be able to recover. I like Tennessee in this one, but it will be a
close one and could go either way. In a game with a lot of scoring, the Vols by 3.

Holiday Bowl
Colorado St. vs. Michigan

Like Utah, Colorado State has been a pleasant surprise and the main reason the WAC has had such a successful
season. Michigan has sputtered once under head coach Gary Moeller for the second season in a row, but they have
too much pride to be humiliated once again. I think Michigan and running back Tyrone Wheatley can salvage a difficult
season with a season-ending victory in the Holiday Bowl. Take the Wolverines and their running game with a 10-point victory.

Sun Bowl
Texas vs. North Carolina

Who knows what this game will be like. If the Tarheels play solid, they will win. The Longhorns still haven’t
recovered from the disaster in the Cotton Bowl four years ago and this game probably won’t help the program too
much. North Carolina hasn’t exactly had all cylinders running too smoothly this season either, but they want to avenge last
season’s embarrassment in the Gator Bowl. I'll go with the Tarheels by 13.

Peach Bowl
N.C. State vs. Mississippi State

Traditionally a good game, the past seven have been won late in the fourth quarter by less than a touchdown.
This year should not fail with these two squads. Both ended up strong, especially the Wolfpack with their surprising win
over Virginia. Mississippi State is a better team than most people know, with all three losses coming to top 10
teams. The Pack will keep it tight, but the Bulldogs will be too much. Mississippi State by 4.

Orange Bowl
Nebraska vs. Miami

One of the two bowl games that will play an influential role in the national championship picture. For Nebraska, a
win over Miami in their backyard will essentially guarantee Tom Osborne his first title. But doing this is something they
have been unable to accomplish. Last year, the Cornhuskers got a level of respect for their gutty performance against Florida
State. Unfortunately, I don’t think they will be able to pull off the victory over the Hurricanes. The frustration continues.
Miami by 7.

Hall of Fame Bowl
Wisconsin vs. Duke

The Blue Devils had an incredible season, losing their last two games by onlyone point each. Fred Goldsmith knows how
to prepare his team and the Blue Devils will find a way to win this one. Wisconsin has been quite
inconsistent after last year’s dream season, and getting up for this bowl is different from the Rose Bowl. Duke by
9.

Citrus Bowl
Alabama vs. Ohio State
The Tide lost any hope for a national championship after losing to Florida, but that won’t stop them against the
Buckeyes. Beating Michigan saved John Cooper’s job, but the fans will be grumbling once again after faltering in their bowl
game. It will be close, because Alabama doesn’t know any other way to play a football game, but the Tide
will prevail in the end. Alabama by 4.

Fiesta Bowl
Colorado vs. Notre Dame
Brace yourself, because this might get ugly. Rashaan Salaam and his teammates will serve up a big win for the
outgoing head coach Bill McCartney. Don’t expect the 10-9 thriller these two had in the Orange Bowl in 1990. Notre
Dame might score only 9 points, but Colorado won’t. Colorado by 21, at least.

Carquest Bowl
South Carolina vs. West Virginia
The Orange Bowl is the night before, but this one’s not going to be quite the same. First-year head coach
Brad Scott will try to do what no coach has been able to at South Carolina, win a bowl game.
The Gamecocks have a good chance to break the jinx against the Mountaineers. West Virginia ended the season strong, but
should have trouble in the Florida heat. I think coaching will be the difference, so I'll go with the Gamecocks.
South Carolina by 6.

Cotton Bowl
Texas Tech vs. Southern Cal
All eyes will not be on this one. To realize just how bad the final year of the Southwest Conference
has been, four teams finished in a tie for first place with 4-3 records, and Texas Tech came out on
top. Thank goodness there won’t be another year like this. John Robinson will say he won the Cotton Bowl as
Southern Cal’s head coach, but it will take at least ten years before that means anything. Another potential blowout. Southern
Cal by 17.

Rose Bowl
Penn State vs. Oregon
Who would have thought that Oregon would have won the PAC-10? Not many, and if they did, they go to
the school. They have had a good season, but their magic carpet ride will lose all air against the Nittany
Lions. Penn State is the best team in college football with an offense that makes some NFL teams drool. Penn
State will know its fate when they step on the field, but they will take care of business just the
same. Just like shooting Ducks off a pond, Penn State by 14.

Sugar Bowl
Florida vs. Florida State
These teams played to a tie just two weeks ago, so we have a meaningless rematch. If Alabama had won,
this game takes on a whole new look, but they didn’t, so now we are stuck. Please boycott this game.
I hope they tie again, but Florida will prevail. Gators by 3.

Help! Interested in being a resident advisor? Positions are available for RAs on female halls for SPRING 1995. Call RLO
(2188) immediately.

In the season opener on November 26 and the first round of the Navy Tip-Off Tournament, the Wildcats defeated UNCW,
gaining their first tournament win since beginning competition. Their 68-39 win was the biggest winning margin the team has ever
had. Davidson shot 43 percent from the field and 90 percent from the line, a school record. Junior co-captain Kristen
Ferrucci led the team, hitting six of her eight attempted field goals and going two for two from the line
for 14 points. Tonya Sharpe was 3-4 from three-point range and 4-7 overall. Carolyn Kirsch, the only Wildcat named to
the All-Tournament team, recorded another double-double with 10 points and 15 rebounds.

On November 30, the Wildcats faced Winthrop at home. At half, they defeated Winthrop 75-61 to pick up their second
win of the season. Kirsch led the team, racking up another double-double in points and rebounds. Jennie Vanlerberghe, a 6-2
freshman, is still plagued with a knee injury and is expected to return to give the team added height in
the next few weeks. Danielle Mall sat out the Winthrop game due to a knee problem, but it was more
of a precautionary measure and she should return to play this week.

Friday, the team traveled to the Brown Tournament. After a 70-42 loss in the opening round to Brown, the Wildcats
were scheduled to face UNCG in a consolation game on Sunday. Ferrucci led the team with 18 points.

CHRISTMAS IN DAVIDSON
at Main Street Books
892-6841

Wednesday, December 7th: Meet Spot and listen to Christmas stories told by the Davidson Community Players
Thursday, December 8th: Come to an origami demonstration by Jonathon Baxter
Friday, December 9th: Listen to music by the Stone Mountain Band

A Davidson Tradition Since 1951
Breakfast Daily Until 11:30 a.m.
Take-out Orders Welcomed!
Sunday 8am - 8pm
Mon, Tues, Wed 8am - 9pm
Thurs, Fri, Sat 9am - 8pm

NEW HOURS
Now Open Every Evening
104 South Main Street, Davidson
896-7743
