SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1994

Women's hoops suffers tough loss in overtime to Western Carolina
By Matt Pitzer

The Davidson women’s basketball team fell just short of one of its big goals, losing in overtime at Western Carolina
on Saturday. The Wildcats had hoped to avenge an earlier loss to the Catamounts a few weeks ago at home.
In the first game, Davidson stayed right with Western Carolina for much of the game, but could not sustain their
intensity level for the entire game. That game came after an 83-70 loss at Radford earlier in the week. Radford
built a 25-point lead with 11 minutes to play, before Davidson chipped the margin back to 10 with about 2:40
left. After a missed three-pointer, the Wildcats had to foul and Radford hit 10 of 12 free throws in the
last two minutes.

Both of those losses, however, came after a season-ending knee injury to Maggie Young Sunday evening. During practice, she tore
her anterior cruciate ligament. She had a similar injury to her left knee in high school. Even after a week
with several bad breaks, Davidson gets no breaks, having to travel to Appalachian State on Monday night, and going up
against one of the tougher teams in the conference. The team’s primary goal is to pick up the first Southern
Conference win in Davidson women’s history.

“That is one of our few win goals,” coach John Filar said. “We didn’t look at this season so much
in terms of wins and losses, we looked at it in terms of improvement. But it’ll be a big disappointment
if we don’t get that win.”

Davidson to host major swim meet this weekend
By Neil Marks

Over 370 swimmers will descend upon the Davidson campus this weekend for the Southern States Swimming Championships, which will feature
over 13 teams from seven states across the region. The meet takes the place of an official Southern Conference championship
since only three Southern Conference schools currently have varsity swimming and diving programs. Many schools from other conferences, however, have
elected to swim in this meet as well.

Davidson is looking to improve over last year's results where the men’s team finished seventh and the women’s team sixth.
Leading the men’s team is sophomore Churchill Hooff, who is seeded well in all of his events and has earned
the number one seed in the 400 individual medley. Other men to look out for include Corey Bean, Kevin Bowler,
Dave Martin, and freshman diver Michael Hart. On the women’s side, diver Meg Bentley is expected to place well, along
with swimmers Suzanne Hewrring, Meri Mucha, Katherine Welling, and Julie Braston.

Head coach Rich DeSelm has been pleased with the team’s improvement, particularly at the Duke meet, which came near the
end of the season. “The results from the Duke meet, on the front edge of the taper, are confirmation that
we’re on the right track. It’s a promising sign,” said DeSelm. “I think the team has grown a lot. We’ve
asked them to challenge their perceptions of what they thought they could do. We’ve been pushing them in practice and
the results show they’re more capable than they thought they were.”

The meet begins on Friday, February 18, with preliminaries at 11 a.m. and finals at 6 p.m. on both Friday
and Saturday. On Sunday, preliminaries begin at 9 a.m. with finals beginning at 5 p.m. “We'd love to see a
lot of folks come out and support the team. They’re committed to doing well,” said DeSelm.

By Will Cobb

After four weeks of practice amid inconsistent weather, the Davidson baseball team will start its season tomorrow when they travel
to Durham to face the Duke Blue Devils. Despite a new crop of talented freshmen, coach Dick Cooke plans to
go with a line-up that should be filled with many familiar faces. Coming off a 20-28 season that ended with
an offensive explosion and a 4th place finish in the Southern Conference tournament, the Wildcats look to begin where they
left off, hoping an experienced pitching staff will hold down their opponents. Of the 395.3 innings Davidson pitched last year,
only 117.7 were lost to graduation.

The two pitchers with the lowest ERAs last year appear to fill the #1 and #2 spots in the starting
rotation. Senior Chris Carrigan will pitch at #1 after coming off a successful junior year where he finished with a
6-4 record giving up 54 runs in 80.3 innings pitched for a 4.26 ERA. The other spot will be filled
by senior Clay Hall, who will pitch second on the weekends while starting at first base otherwise. Hall had a
team low 2.72 ERA with a 2-2 record and 3 saves in 36.3 innings. The #3 spot in the rotation
stands wide open and the list for potential candidates is long. Sophomores Brian Krehmeyer and Brian Cole combined for 12
starts andBoth present a strong case. The freshman class holds a couple of talented pitchers that should definitely see action
as well. This duo includes Mordecai Stolk and Gus Quattlebaum. In addition, players such as Mills Arial and Mac Chapman
should see their share of time on the mound as well. Cooke adds, “Potentially, we could have more depth than
we’ve had in a while.”

Offensively, the Cats return four players that batted over .300 last season for a team that averaged almost seven runs
a game. For the second year, Paul Brannan will bat at the lead-off position and will line up in left
field defensively. The meat of the batting order will come in the 2-4 positions. Three-year starter Jazz Frietas will bat
second while playing center field, catcher Brett Boretti, coming off an outstanding junior year (.386, 13 HR, 48 RBI), will
bat third, and first baseman Clay Hall will bat clean-up. Senior Mac Chapman, who has started all but one game
since becoming a Wildcat, will bat fifth and play third base. Chapman batted .360 last year while pitching 31.3 innings.
Sophomore Jeff Andrews will play full-time at shortstop and Chad Blackwelder will bat 7th at second base. Currently, Andrews is
the only player to have a secure starting position that is not a senior. The lone starting position that has
not been filled sits alone in right field where senior Drew Fassett and junior Mike New are competing. Regardless of
who actually plays in the field, the other should get several at-bats at the designated hitter position.

When Clay Hall pitches, look for players like freshman Brian Penny, transfer Brad Edwards, Krehmeyer, or David Steen to see
time at first base. When Chapman goes in for long or short relief, freshmen such as Anderson Marion or Gus
Quattlebaum might come in at third. As far as the conference goes, Western Carolina and Georgia Southern stand as the
teams to beat, while preseason polls put Davidson somewhere in the middle of the pack. Just like last year, the
Southern Conference is full of tough competition. “Now that we’ve worked out for a few weeks, I just hope the
pitchers are ready, and that the hitters have seen enough different pitches. Hopefully this Tuesday we can execute the basics,
have few walks, keep the ball in play, and field well,” said Cooke.

Davidson will play on the road for the first two weeks before returning home for a 10-game homestand. The first
home game will be Wednesday, March 2 against Duke. Three days later, the weekend series with conference favorite Western Carolina.
Though the timing seems early for baseball, here it is again.

Men's track looks forward to Southern Conference indoor meet
By Jeff George

The men’s track team returned to Virginia Tech for the third time this year on Saturday, competing in what was
basically a tune-up meet for the upcoming Southern Conference Championships, to be held this weekend at East Tennessee State University.
Depleted by injuries and suffering from a crippling lack of press exposure, the Cats nonetheless had a successful meet. Once
again, a strong contingent of freshmen paved the way, led by Chris Machon’s 4:35 1600-meter run. Machon ran away with
his heat easily, and looks forward to running much faster with the improved competition this weekend. Other freshmen competing well
included Eugene Jung in the 500 meters, and Dave Foss in the 1600 and 3000.

Many of the team’s veterans ran off-distance events, taking it a little easy in preparation for the championships. Duncan Spears
narrowly missed setting his fourth consecutive 500m record in a very physical race, running 1:07.7, just one-tenth of a second
short. Since this was his last career meet on the Virginia Tech track, Spears can boast an undefeated record over
four years of heat races on the 200-meter oval. Erik McMichael, Joe Beach, and Pat Fernando also competed in the
500, while sophomore Eric Collings and freshman Clay Lenhart joined Foss and Machon in the 1600. Collings and Mike Coyle
also competed in the 3000. Junior Jeff George showed signs of returning to his form of previous years with a
solid performance in the 800.

Perhaps the most exciting aspect of the meet was watching the development of several runners who have been hindered by
injuries or illness. George, whose last two seasons had been cut short by illness, joined freshman Ian Patterson and Ken
Kiser on the rehabilitation track, with all three progressing well. The absence of junior Jim Moss still leaves a gap
in the distance corps, but his progress has been very promising, and so the team looks forward to having all
its runners in top form hopefully by this weekend.
