THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 18, 1994

Alumni Weekend reuniting 500 with old friends.
By Wendy Lee

Five hundred Davidson graduates will inundate the college campus for the upcoming Alumni Weekend, April 22-23. Graduates from the classes
of '49, '50, '54, '59, '69, and '74 will return to reminisce with old friends and to check out the
changes in their alma mater. Bob Knight, chairman of the class of '49, looks forward to the weekend which will
enable him to "see classmates and fraternity brothers I haven’t seen in years." According to Knight, 50 class of '49
alumni from all around the Southeast and as far as Texas, Connecticut, Michigan, Indiana, and Chambers.

File photo

From the Archives
Mysteries of Chambers revealed
By Towner Blackstock

Never fear, Susan Beale; the answers to your questions of last week and more await you. Here’s all you ever
wanted to know about Chambers Building and its statues, roof, and bell:

The two statues above the entrance to Chambers are the Chambermaids. If you look closely you will notice that they
are laughing at us poor overworked students. Introspection stands on the left holding a mirror and a book. The statue
on the right, Expression, sports a writing quill and another book. The two women lean against a stylized version of
the college seal, which symbolizes the triumph of Providence and learning over evil. The piece is huge, with the Chambermaids
standing larger than life.

People do indeed climb the roof of Chambers. I’ve done it myself a few times. I remember sitting on the
dome of Chambers with a couple of friends one morning, waiting for the sun to finish rising. A man walking
towards the front entrance of Chambers from the direction of the Guest House waved and called out, “Don’t fall!” We
then realized it was Dr. Kuykendall.

People have climbed the roof of Chambers since the completion of Old Chambers in 1858. The open-air cupola on top
gave folks a spectacular view. One could even get onto the cornice of the massive front pediment (the triangular gable
held up by columns) through a small hatch which blended into the pediment face. I have seen photos of people
wandering all over the roof. Apparently, no one minded. Back in 1915 when Woodrow Wilson visited Davidson, someone painted a
large likeness of the President on the pediment. Apparently, the College condoned, perhaps even directed, that effort.

Students also could not stay off the roof of New Chambers. Photos show fraternity men of the '20s visiting the
roof after their initiations, held in what we now call Perkins Auditorium. Back then, it was an unfinished room of
somber stone. With the remodeling of 1961 and the subsequent boarding up of the four great windows, Perkins definitely lost
its grand charm. The roof, however, still calls students. Some dare to climb the tall trees flanking the front columns;
I have even seen some folks using rappelling gear to do that. I have always gone through the attic, climbed
one flight of stairs, gone through the roof hatch, and voila. Of course, to get on the dome takes a
little more effort. A pair of climbing shoes helps. The view is great, considering that once you get to the
top of the dome you stand fully six stories above some of the highest ground in Mecklenburg county.

While on the roof, you might walk around to the back of the dome to see the College Bell. The
burning of Old Chambers in 1921 destroyed the bell (if we are not going to ring it anymore) might be
on a memorial platform on Richardson Plaza, or even in front of Chambers. I cannot help but mention some pranks
involving the bell. In the last century it was habit for students to try to steal the College Bell in
hopes of not hearing its call to wake up for classes. Others would ring it at night and run away.
In one case, the night-time mischief-makers continued to clang the bell until the faculty arrived, but then beat off the
beleaguered professors with rocks and sticks. About ten years ago, a couple of jokers found the switch inside Chambers for
the College Bell. Late at night, they would sit in the basement with the switch laughing, while the police ran
around outside.Old bell, so the next year Brevard McDowell ‘69 donated the present one. An impressive inscription dedicates it to
those Davidson students who made the ultimate sacrifice during World War One. Its very place on the roof has caused
the community to all but forget the dedication, and its recent silence does not help. Perhaps a more fitting place
for the bell with their flashlights pointing up at the roof. In that year, the Physical Plant was instructed to
cut off the power to the bell during Commencement in case the mysterious “malfunctions” might start up during the ceremonies.

There you have it: the mysteries of Chambers revealed. I am sorry I cannot tell you about the double hinges
or how many deaths can be attributed to them. But before we run out of space, here is another mystery
revealed: Yes, Susan, people really have been locked in the library both by accident (silly freshmen) and for fun (silly
upperclassmen). I remember hearing about one couple who hid after closing with the intention of performing some amorous activities between
the stacks. They had no problem getting locked in, but they were surprised to encounter in the library two other
couples that night who had the same idea they did.

Germany are returning. The classes of ’49 and ‘50 will hold a joint reunion; each of the other classes will
hold separate reunions. Several events, however, will bring the entire group together. Friday, Davidson graduates Dean Will Terry ’54 and
President John Kuykendall ’59 will address their classmates on “Reflections on a Quarter Century at Davidson” and “Davidson College Today”
respectively. Saturday morning will feature a cake race with cakes donated by faculty and staff. A reception will follow at
Baker Sports Complex sponsored by the Davidson Athletic Foundation. Alumni service awards and a Distinguished Alumnus award will be presented
Saturday afternoon. A band party will be held for the ‘69 and ‘74 classes in the 900 Room of the
Union on Saturday night. Tony Orsbon, class of ’69, says that those involved are really excited about their 25th reunion.
John Cook, assistant to the director of Alumni Relations, says that this year’s Alumni Weekend will be smaller than last
year’s reunion of over 1100 alums because some classes opted to hold their reunions on Homecoming weekend this year. Cook
says that 25 to 30 student volunteers will help staff the various dinners and receptions. The Alumni Relations staff, including
Nancy Blackwell, Denise Allen, Linda Kunkle, Brian Tarr, and Matt Terrell, has been working hard on the weekend.

Quips & Cranks to be published in fall
By Carrie Blackburn

Spring no longer means students signing yearbooks to procrastinate. Traditionally, Quips and Cranks has been issued in the spring, but
this year students will have to wait until next fall. Editor-in-Chief Angela Capillary decided to switch to a fall delivery
date, which most colleges have, because “too much was missing,” including spring sports, activities, and graduation. Capillary says, “It’s going
to be a little bit later... but what’s in it is good.” Response to the late publication date has been
generally favorable, especially since graduation will be included. “At first,” says Capillary, “people are surprised, but when I explain, they
think it’s really cool. They want to have a quality book.” Senior Francis Mitchell agrees: “Signing them is not really
a big deal like it was in high school, so it’s fine with me.” During the last week in August,
yearbooks will be mailed to seniors at their home addresses. Quips and Cranks will use $1,000 of its $30,000 budget
to cover the shipping costs. Previously, the yearbook staff has had to complete the entire book by March. The additional
sections, however, place a greater demand on staff members. Capillary, who stayed on campus until Christmas Eve to meet a
deadline, will remain on campus after graduation to continue work on the yearbook. Capillary says the staff has tried to
make the yearbook more representative of the entire student body. They have made an attempt to recruit pictures from a
variety of students, but when student response is minimal, staff members must rely on their friends, creating an imbalance of
representation. Student comments also have been added throughout the yearbook, especially in academics. Capillary says, “The quality of the book
will be a lot better.”

A rich, delicious brownie with Ben & Jerry’s ice cream or frozen yogurt, hot fudge, and fresh whipped cream!
