THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1994 15

Wildcat rugby dominates N.C. collegiate tourney
By Warren Buford

Coming off a second-place finish in the East-West competition and a week of solid practice, the Davidson Wildcat rugby club
had high expectations for their performance during Parents' Weekend. Indeed, these expectations were met. In front of a large crowd
of fellow teammates, friends, and parents, Davidson claimed first place in the second annual North Carolina Collegiate Rugby Tournament by
defeating Wake Forest and Western Carolina.

On Saturday, Davidson squared off against arch-rival Wake Forest. The Demon Deacons’ aggressive play and high level of competition forced
the Wildcats to take over the game. Leading the charge by scoring the first of five Davidson tries was sophomore
Scott Young, who finished off a spectacular run by diving on top of the ball in the try zone for
five points. Rugby club captain Simon Priestley added the conversion along with two tries during the afternoon. As usual, Priestley
toughed it out in both games and played outstanding rugby. Joining Priestley with outstanding honors is the entire Davidson team.
Commendable hustle goes to players Frank Killian, Chris Smith, Jeremy Potter, Tom Shelburne, Mike Ingram, and Mike Kestler, all of
whom played the duration of both games. Kestler, who has worked hard as President of the Club, summed up the
importance of the victory in a few words: “Our determination along with fan support has helped us to compete at
the highest level. This victory has proven our dominance in North Carolina rugby.” The next home game for the Wildcats
will be on November 19 against Duke.

Photo by Rob Kosicki
The rugby team was first at the state tournament.

Madawg wins IMAC continued from page 13

championship as Kamil Shah and Krause were coaching Rusk against Reece and Jennings. Shah and Krause’s Rusk team won. Madawg
lost to KA early in the playoffs, forcing them to travel the hard road through the losers’ bracket to win.
Each of the five games they won were tough and close. “After we lost the first KA game,” Krause said,
“that kind of took a lot of air out of our heads. We knew from there on out it was
going to be an uphill struggle. We knew our backs were up against the wall, and we just had to
come up with the wins.” And win they did, reaching a goal that the team had made their primary objective
for their senior year. After playing together in so many games and practices over the four years, not winning the
title probably would have represented a huge failure for the team. “Our senior goal all along was to win the
championship,” Krause said. “We expected to win it. We would have been extremely devastated if we hadn’t.”

Volleyball progresses during season
By Rich Glen

Recently, the Davidson College volleyball team has started to come on strong. Last weekend the team played two matches, one
against Western Carolina and the other against the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga. The Western Carolina game ended in a
3 games to 1 loss for the Wildcats, but the Western Carolina game showed how much the team has improved
this year. “We played our best game of the year against Chattanooga,” says Coach Carolyn Blake. The team ended up
winning the match 3 games to none. On Friday the Wildcats were home against Georgia Southern and were victorious in
that match as well. “We won in five games but we really should have won in three or four,” said
Amy Bourgeois ‘98 who returned to the line-up after a six-week battle with mononucleosis. The Wildcats' record stands at 9-21
and their conference record is 3-7. However, the team has been playing much better in the second half of the
season. Coach Blake added, “We are really starting...to See V-ball continued on page 16

Swim team celebrates successful weekend with 3 wins out of 4 meets

Swim continued from page 13

Charleston with a score of 153 to 74 while the women fell to Charleston by only three points, 117 to
114. Four additional school records were set. Two of them, the 200 fly and the 200 back, were set by
Beebe with times of 2:16.78 and 2:13.30, respectively. The other pair was set by Buck with times of 2:10.06 in
the 200 breast and 1:58.61 in the 200 IM. Wins against Charleston came for the women from Beebe in the
1000 free, 200 fly, and 200 back, Bolterstein in the 50 free, Sweeney in the 200 IM, Herring in the
200 free, and Bentley on the 1 meter and 3 meter boards. For the men, wins were earned by Scarbo
in the 500 and 1000 free, Schnell in the 200 free and 200 back, Buck in the 200 IM and
200 breast, Hart on the 1 meter board, freshman Jonathan Frost on the 3 meter board, and Bean in the
200 fly. Other top performers included Schuetz, Palmer, Lim, Maddux, Rogerson, Lake, Craig, and juniors William Robert and John Rogers.
The wins were the first for both teams this season. At the end of the weekend, the men’s record improved
to 2-1 and the women’s to 1-3. Both teams travel to Virginia next weekend to take on William & Mary
and American University and then to Chapel Hill the following Wednesday.

Women's soccer takes Conference title

Soccer continued from page 13

Kanoff with 8, Wineberg with 8, Sprinkle with 5, Kelly Ammann with 3, Kelly Schmidt and Amy Lindstrom added 2,
and Melissa Moser scored once. Liz Schaper led all goalies with an average per match of only 1.68, which decreased
even more with her performance in the tournament. With this being the first year that the conference held post-season play
for the women, it was a big step for women’s soccer in the Southern Conference. In the past, the women
closed their season simply with a final home game. By holding a tournament, it gives the teams something more to
work toward and a way to formally close out the season that did not exist before. Another bonus of holding
a tournament is the announcement of All-Conference Honors. Because the conference only has four teams, there was just a First
Team All-Conference. Lombard, who was also conference Player of the Year, Ammann, Sprinkle, Wineberg, and Moser were chosen as All-Conference
players.

Classifieds

SPRING BREAK '95 SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH, & GO FREE

Student Travel Services is now hiring campus representatives. Lowest rates to Jamaica, Cancun, Daytona, and Panama City Beach. Call 1-800-648-4849.

WANT TO EARN SOME FAST CASH WHILE DEVELOPING YOUR CONVERSATION SKILLS?

The Regional Campaigns Office needs students to participate in 2 evening sessions of our first student phonathon. Good money and
little time commitment. Need to be available 6:30 - 9:30 pm on November 14th and 15th. Call Allison Wright at
x2464.

Delivery Drivers Needed

Papa John’s Pizza, the pizza company on the move, is now hiring delivery drivers. If you are 18 years or
older, have a valid driver’s license, auto insurance, a good driving record, and access to a car, you can be
on the move!

- Make an average of up to $8 an hour or more.
- Work flexible hours.
- It’s a fun place to work.
- Be part of one of the fastest growing pizza companies.
- A great opportunity for advancement!

* Income varies with hours worked.
* Gas reimbursements included.

Name
Address
Phone

Lake Norman
19700 One Norman Blvd.
896-7272

FREE Six cans of Coca-Cola classic with Two 14" Large One Topping $12.99 Late Night Special
