THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS. MONDAY, APRIL 25, 1994

Baseball loses a close one to ACC's Wake Forest
By David Dwyer

Davidson’s baseball team faced a strong team Tuesday afternoon in the Wake Forest Demon Deacons. After holding the lead for
much of the game, the Wildcats blinked first in what had become quite a staring match, giving up two runs
in the eighth inning and eventually losing 9-7. In yet another game that demonstrated Davidson’s offensive weapons, Wake succeeded in
keeping the game close until they could grab the victory at the last possible opportunity.

The Deacons drew the game’s first blood, blasting back-to-back home runs off Davidson starter Jonathan Coulombe in the top of
the first. Davidson recovered quickly, however, getting one RBI in the bottom of the first off the bat of catcher
Brett Boretti, and three more in the bottom of the second behind Drew Fassett’s homer and Chad Blackwelder’s triple. By
the seventh inning, Wake Forest had taken the lead 7-5, but Davidson wasn’t quite finished. DH Brad Edwards doubled in
two runs to tie the game heading into the eighth inning. Wake, however, got two runs in the top of
the eighth and then held Davidson scoreless for their final two at-bats to preserve the victory.

The Wake game paralleled much of Davidson’s season. The Wildcats have lost 13 games by margins of two runs or
less, which indicates competitiveness but an inability to win the close games. Still, it is likely that Davidson will enter
the conference tournament as the seventh seed. The Wildcats hope to prove themselves as not only competitive but also as
one of the conference’s best.

In other action, sophomore Jeff Andrews threw a five-hitter in the second game of Saturday’s doubleheader at Marshall, giving Davidson
a split with the Thundering Herd. Davidson lost the first game 21-18 but recovered to win the second 7-3. Centerfielder
Jazz Frietas pushed his hitting streak to 17 games as he closes in on Jeff Andrews’ team record.

Sports scholarships still necessary to remain competitive within division
Sports continued from page 2

“...students would... participate if the opportunity was there.”

Five years ago, Davidson established nine full athletic scholarships for women to meet standards required by Title IX. Women’s athletics
decided “to spread the money among the entire program, not just to one sport,” adds Martin. Women’s tennis was considered
a premier sport and received one and a half full grants, while field hockey, track/cross country, and soccer were each
allocated one full grant.

“The college-funded men’s scholarships are still, however, designated solely for basketball, and it would take trustee policy to change that,”
says Holland. Even with the changes inspired by Title IX and the partial scholarships funded by the DAF, most Davidson
athletes, other than men’s basketball players, must depend primarily on need-based aid to finance their educations.

Holland’s justification for the continued imbalance of athletic scholarships in favor of men’s basketball, despite the increased popularity of other
sports, especially soccer, is that “historically, it’s been there.” With a lack of season ticket sales, Davidson risks a change
in divisions. According to Holland, Davidson currently continues to play Division I despite the financial strain and the lack of
financial resources to compete for players with other Division I schools because, “Historically, we have been Division I, and the
people we compete with for students are Division I. We are located in an area with not many schools like
ourselves with which to compete.” Of the top 25 liberal arts colleges in the country, Davidson is the only Division
I school.

Divisions are set institutionally; thus, Davidson must play Division I in all sports or in none. Division III football is
an exception because it received a geographical waiver in order that it might play members of the Division III Old
Dominion Athletic Conference. “If the financial strain became a real strain, our first step would be to cut scholarships,” says
Holland. Davidson would then have to see “if we can...compete without scholarships.” A change in divisions would alter the opportunities
for scholarships, especially for men’s basketball, where nearly the entire team is on a full ride, because the NCAA allows
fewer scholarships in Division II and none at all in Division III. Players in these leagues must depend fully on
need-based aid. A faculty committee concerned about the amount of funds allocated to athletics found that Davidson’s scholarship funds are
already at a Division II level. A change of divisions and fewer full athletic scholarships would inhibit the recruitment prospects
and greatly affect the nature of the entire athletic program. “There are student-athletes who want to come to Davidson but
choose to go where they can get full scholarships instead,” says Holland. Providing nearly 60 full athletic grants is necessary
for recruits to view Davidson as a viable option among Division I schools; however, Davidson's tuition is so much higher
than other Division I schools that providing that many full rides is very difficult. Holland comments, “A state school could
give four full scholarships to every one scholarship at Davidson.” Davidson’s difficulty competing in recruitment extends to both athletes and
scholars and is attributed to an overall lack of scholarship funds. Says Holland, “This problem is not just in athletics
but school-wide; that’s why the campaign is focusing on providing merit scholarships.” “If we had the opportunity to participate in
a league with schools that do not give scholarships, we would have done so, but people are not willing to
give it up unless they have to.”

Cool Breeze Cyclery Under New Management Dedicated to All Your Service Needs. TREK, CANNONDALE, AND SPECIALIZED - 170 NORTH MAIN
STREET MOORESVILLE, NC 28115 704-663-8812

College Seniors THERE ARE REWARDS... If you enjoy the outdoors, are adept at camping, hiking and sports activities, and can
positively influence people, we invite you to pursue a rewarding future as one of our Counselor/Teachers. As a leader in
quality programs for youth-at-risk, we have immediate LIVE-IN positions available in our year-round wilderness camps in FL, NC, TN, RI,
VT, and NH. You'll be a role model for troubled kids, ages 10 to 17, which requires a positive attitude
and strong communication skills. Child care experience/college degree are preferred. We offer a starting salary of $15,300 and comprehensive benefits,
including room and board, life/medical insurance, and paid vacations and holidays. For consideration, please call Bob Shea at (802)-537-2025. Or
send your resume to: ECKERD FAMILY YOUTH ALTERNATIVES, INC., Rt. 2, Box 6800, Fair Haven, VT 05743. An EOE, M/F,
Drug-free workplace. ..AND THEN THERE ARE REWARDS. BREAK THE CYCLE: CHANGE YOUNG LIVES.

DUCY NAIL BOUTIQUE Sculptured Nails • Nail Tips • Overlays • French Manicures • Pedicures • Make-Overs and now... TANNING
The Chair Factory 20700 N. Main St. Suite 116 Cornelius, NC 28031 (704) 892-7030 MONDAY - SATURDAY

SUMMER STORAGE FINAL EXAMS...SUMMER JOBS...SUMMER STORAGE... You have enough to worry about before the summer begins. So let Student StoreHouse
take some of the load off! Just call our toll-free number and we'll take care of the rest. We'll pick
up your belongings, store them safely over the summer, and deliver them back to your new dorm, apartment, or house
at the end of the summer. Best of all, our extra service doesn’t cost you a penny - pick up
and delivery is free! After all, we figure college students are smart enough to know what to do with a
little extra time and money. Guaranteed Lowest Prices Free Pick Up and Delivery Fully Bonded Monitored Climate Safe and Secure
Facilities Computerized Inventory Tracking STOREHOUSE 800-5-WE STORE 1-800-593-7867 ©1994 Student StoreHouse, Inc. CALL NOW — SPACES ARE LIMITED!!

NEED SOME EXTRA $$$? CALL US!! HUGE SALE! 30-40% Off Select Packs, Tents, and Sleeping Bags by Camp Trails, Lowe
Alpine, North Face, and Sierra Designs Come to our Boat Demo on May 7 - call for details! Shops on
the Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn.
