THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, AUGUST 29, 1994

Photo by Robert Ramsay

Construction work finished just in time for seniors to move into the newest addition to Martin Court apartments.

By Alex Crumbley

If it’s quiet, you can almost hear the pound and ring of construction crews still echoing in its brick and
concrete halls. Martin Court Apartment F, the newest addition to the college skyline, was completed just in time for seniors
to move in last weekend, and its first residents are pleased with the results.

It’s been called the nursing home, the country club, the mansion, and Melrose Place. Martin F’s visage is definitely unlike
anything else on campus — with adjoining, wrap-around porches and a grassy courtyard in the middle, the building immediately gives
the feel of community living.

“I think it’s funny that we can see the comings and goings of almost every other apartment in the building,”
Anna Gray Anderson said Friday night as she enjoyed a beverage on her front porch. “It'll be hard to get
away with anything, if you know what I mean.”

With the last minute rush put on by the contracting company to have Martin F finished, a few details were
overlooked or haphazardly done. A backwards elevator button here and a disconnected water heater there betray the builders’ race against
the clock. But residents are just happy to have a place to live, especially after three years of dorm life.
Finally, the Residence Life Office can guarantee all students an apartment for their senior year.

“I was glad not to have to worry about having an apartment... or maybe end up with a single somewhere,”
said TyohA Philpott, resident of Martin F.

The building houses 90 students in five-bedroom apartments, each furnished with a full kitchen and a three-sink bathroom.

“It’s an incredible setup we have here,” said Brian Bentley, one of the apartment’s two RAs. “We took a gamble
signing up to live here, and it paid off.”

The Martin dwellers' only complaint is the lighting in the building. At night, Martin F looks like the launch pad
for the space shuttle Challenger. Residents hope the building will not explode.

All campus party becomes a reality

By Russ Tarver

In order to facilitate relationships between students, faculty, and staff, student government Vice-President Allison Sabel is following through with...

---

Are you an aspiring photographer? Work for The Davidsonian photo staff. Call Kristina -6587.

Welcome Back 'Cats!

Get your school year off to a great start with a visit to The Village Store. We carry calendars, planners,
and wall clocks to keep up with your busy schedule. Organizers to keep up with your busy desk. And shower
baskets and waste baskets - in colors that pop. Plus, a wide variety of fabulous gifts and greeting cards for
any occasion. See why thousands of Wildcats have shopped at The Village Store for 27 years.

110 South Main Street, DavidsonHer campaign promise to organize an all-campus party. Sponsored by the SGA, Patterson Court Council, and
the College Union, the “Fall Festival” will be held on Friday, September 9 and continue through Saturday, September 10. “There
is a lack of communication between faculty, students, and staff outside the classroom,” says Sabel. She hopes that the Fall
Festival will help bridge the social gap between the groups. “Everyone will be included in the event.” The Fall Festival
is also intended to unite Patterson Court affiliates with independents. According to Sabel, “All fraternities and eating houses will be
a part of this event and won’t be having parties that weekend.” In the past, Union-sponsored events during weekends such
as Spring Frolics have been overshadowed by eating house and fraternity functions, dividing independents and house members.

Friday’s events will include a student-faculty jazz mixer from 7-9 p.m. and a rock band from 9 p.m. to 1
a.m. Both events will be held on Richardson Plaza between Chambers and Little Library. “There will be lots of music
and lots of food,” says Sabel. Saturday will be “Day at the Lake.” Events at the lake campus include the
Freshman Regatta from 11 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. and live music from 12:30 to 4 p.m. Lunch will be provided.
A 1950’s Rock n’ Roll party will be held in Vail Commons on Saturday night from 8 p.m. until 12
a.m. Beverages provided at all functions will be non-alcoholic.

New drop-add system aims to reduce lines
By Ashlyn Dannelly

Gone are the days of students camping out in Chambers six hours before drop-add, thanks to a new system. In
early August, upperclass students were given the opportunity to drop or add 300 and 400 level courses over the phone.
According to Griffin, the new process was “smooth. We had plenty of calls.” Several hundred students used the new phone
system, and many people called more than once to check on the availability of certain courses. The “most uncomfortable part”
of the new system, according to Griffin, was the “limited amount of changes sophomores could make.” Students were not allowed
to drop or add 100 and 200 level courses over the phone because the Registrar’s office “wanted to make sure
freshmen would get courses.” Even before the new phone process, Griffin thinks the new registration procedures were a success: “Many
more students than usual got four courses.” Freshmen went through drop-add on Saturday, and upperclassmen will go through drop-add tonight.
The process works differently this year, as students receive a randomly assigned registration time slot along with their course schedule.
Those times can be traded if someone does not need to use their slot.

SWIMMING AND DIVING TEAM
Initial meeting for all interested swimmers, divers, and team managers will be held at 4:00 p.m., Monday, August 29 in
the Baker Sports Complex, lower level wrestling room, or call the office at -2811 or -2812.

Welcome Students!
Come in to see our 106 South Main Street in Davidson.
