SPORTS - MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1994

Men's soccer wins 1-0 v. Citadel, prepares for UCLA game

By Will Cobb

After enduring a stressful yet eventful first week of the season, the men’s soccer team gears up for the national spotlight against UCLA this Wednesday night at Richardson Field. Davidson survived a scare from conference opponent The Citadel yesterday with a 1-0 victory in overtime to give the Wildcats a strong 3-1 record entering the contest. The only loss of the season came last Thursday night at the hands of county rival UNC-Charlotte in a game that held its share of controversy. Every game between these two schools comes down to the end, with the final score usually separated by one goal. The 1994 encounter was no different.

Although last year’s game had just one goal scored, fans quickly saw that Thursday’s game would be much different when four goals were scored in the first ten minutes; three more would follow. Unfortunately, Davidson would score just one more and take the loss 4-3. Davidson got their offense from senior leadership early on when John Sampers converted a penalty kick and John Hudson scored off a pass from freshman Phil Julyan. John Eckman put the Wildcats up 3-2 in the second half when he scored off a deflection from a Sampers shot.

The Wildcats played under conditions that would have decimated other teams. The referees enforced a rule that no longer exists, and from then on gave few calls in Davidson’s favor. Despite the difficult circumstances of the loss, the players displayed character reflecting the traditional level of class present in Davidson athletes.

Following the difficult loss and trying not to look forward to Wednesday’s match, the Wildcats opened conference action against perennial cellar-dweller The Citadel. This game is usually a breather for the Wildcats, but scoring became a big problem as the Wildcats could not find the back of the net. Outshooting the Bulldogs 35-9, Davidson dominated but did not get the break they needed until 1:42 remained in the second overtime. Sampers was taken down inside the penalty box on a fast break, and Eckman converted the penalty kick for his second goal of the season. Though not the prettiest of games, a win is a win, especially when it's a shutout. Sophomore Matt Hill recorded the shutout in goal with three saves on the day. Alex Deegan will return to goal on Wednesday after serving a one-game suspension. The defensive crew of Pete Boylan, Nick Troiano, Tommy Suter, along with sweeper Isaac Stewart, have looked strong, earning the majority of playing time. Eckman has emerged in the center midfield as a strong link to the offense, along with freshman Phil Julyan up front. Julyan has become a starter since playing well in the Wake Forest Invitational two weekends ago.

After Wednesday’s game against national power UCLA, the Wildcats will face Big South member Radford in the second game of a doubleheader. The first game will feature Furman against UCLA. Prizes will be given away during both games, with the first game beginning at 5 p.m. followed by the Davidson game at 8.

Field hockey wins one, loses one; conference record 1-1

Field hockey team beats Georgetown, loses to Davis and Elkins,
Photo by Marian Woodworth

By David Aycock

It was a busy weekend for the Davidson field hockey team as they were in action both Saturday and Sunday afternoon. The ‘Cats upped their record to 2-0 in the first game of the weekend by beating the Georgetown Hoyas by a score of 5-0. In the first ten minutes of the game, the Wildcats jumped out to a quick one-goal lead on a score by Chase Keith ‘98. Interestingly, Keith also scored the first goal in the season opener at Appalachian State last weekend, a game the Wildcats won 3-1. The game was thoroughly dominated by the home team from the outset, as the ball was controlled continually by the ‘Cats at midfield. Davidson ran the lead to 3-0 by halftime, as Nicole Ficeto ‘96 and Holly Kledis ‘96 both found the back of the net. Georgetown was completely overmatched in the defense, as the ‘Cats forwards used their speed to run around their slower opponents. The second half was merely a formality, as the Hoyas looked totally drained of energy by the quick pace of the first half; as a result, the ball remained almost entirely on Georgetown’s end of the field. The ‘Cats pushed the score to its final margin on a goal from Erin Smith ‘98 and Keith’s second goal. Goalkeepers Mary Ferguson ‘95 and Tamra Carhart ‘98 combined for the shutout, each playing a half.

Unfortunately, the ‘Cats dropped the second game of the weekend to visiting Davis & Elkins by a score of 1-0, evening their conference record at 1-1. The Wildcats will play twice this week, traveling to Catawba College on Wednesday before returning home next Saturday to face St. Louis.

Football prepares for first kickoff Saturday v. Maryville

By Matt Pitzer

After more than three weeks of practice, the Davidson football team isReady to take the field Saturday to tackle Maryville on the road, opening their season. More than anything, the practice time has allowed Coach Tim Landis to take a close look at the large freshman class, some of which will be expected to fill the shoes of the 19 players lost to graduation. What he has seen has pleased him, and several freshmen are expected to play big roles for the Wildcats this season. 

But the team has also been racked with injuries in practice, some more serious than others. Perhaps the most serious is the broken ankle suffered by starting senior running back Shane Mills, who will miss the entire season. Senior starting linebacker Chris Leak will miss the opener but is expected back September 24 for the home opener against Emory & Henry, which is also Homecoming. “We’re at the point now where any more injuries would really hurt us,” Landis said. “We really can’t afford any more injuries.”

Senior quarterback Kevin Holzworth is ready to fill the shoes of four-year starter Richard Howell and likely will run a similar offense much of the time. Besides using his leadership at quarterback, Landis would like to use Holzworth’s athletic ability at a slot position. This would mean working freshman quarterback Hamilton Hill into the game. Hill is a 6-3, 200-pound standout from Wichita, Kansas with a strong arm. Tommy Dugan is another freshman quarterback of the same size, and he will see some work at wide receiver and kick returner while developing as a quarterback.

With the addition of Hill, Landis expects to throw more passing plays into the mix while maintaining the presence of the running game. “We want to keep a steady diet of run and pass,” Landis said. “But we will throw more this year, and the passing game will be more prevalent.”

Davidson will work mostly from three offensive sets: the single-back, four wide-receiver set; the I-formation; and the power-I formation. In the I-formation, freshman Marcus Williams will step in at fullback, allowing senior Bruce Bannister to slide to tailback, his natural position. Along the offensive line, the (literally) biggest addition is freshman guard Mike Lassiter, who measures 5-11 and tips the scales at 295 pounds. Also at guard is junior Keith Davis, who has really helped himself in the preseason. Adam Guess and John Cowan are the tackles, while the center spot is still up for grabs.

More veterans are returning on defense, and Landis plans to use that experience by adding more stunts and more movement on the line to throw off opposing offenses. “We want our defense to do two things,” Landis said. “One is to keep the offense on its heels, and the other is to create turnovers. We want to build creating turnovers as part of our philosophy.” The most common defensive set will be an eight-man front with a three-deep secondary. The Wildcats will also show a little more of a four-deep secondary, anchored by the 4-3 front that is becoming more and more popular in college football. Senior Mills Ariail (6-4, 285) will again be the strong point of the line, alongside Bo Bartholomew and James Cassidy. Mark Hemby and Leak (when he returns) are the highlights of a strong linebacking corps.

Against Maryville, Davidson must be able to control the ball offensively for long periods of time and keep the clock running. Maryville is a big, physical team that loves to run the ball and occasionally throw in a play-action pass. “We need our offense to take up time and control the ball to keep the defense off the field,” Landis said. “If they’re on offense for a long time, they’ll just grind it out.” While Landis recognizes the need for more practice (“We’re at the point where we realize we need to polish some more plays”), both players and coaches are undoubtedly itching to take the field when the score will count. “People expect us to win now, which is kind of a catch-22,” Landis said. “It’s great to be expected to win, but it also puts more pressure on us. We’ll see how we deal with it. But I’m pretty optimistic.”

Cross Country Opens Season v. ASU
By Dave Dwyer

The men’s and women’s cross country teams participated in their first meet September 3rd at Appalachian State, giving coaches Gary Andrew and Beth Manson their first real looks at their 1994 runners. The women, with a lineup that includes three sophomores, juniors, and seniors in addition to one freshman, took fourth place out of five teams. The men, a group which is two-thirds freshmen, grabbed fifth place out of six. It might be said that these two teams are a study in contrast in 1994, as the women have several members with significant experience at the college level, while the men’s team features only one member with more than two years of Davidson cross-country participation.

On the women’s side, senior Elizabeth Bishop finished fourteenth overall, immediately followed by sophomore Anne Roach at fifteen. Commented Coach Manson, “We are well ahead of where we were at this point a year ago... the majority of our season will be spent in preparation for the...”