Ap BOMtaM ww "The South’s Foremost College Weekly" celebrates octennial birthday

The Davidsonian's special anniversary issue includes letters from former editors representing almost all of the eight decades the newspaper has
been in existence. Also, readers will enjoy articles documenting the history, current events, and campus issues of each decade as
seen through the eyes of Davidsonians of ages past.

The DAVIDSONIAN
VOL. 1 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 1, 1914.

Woodrow Wilson Receives President Martin
Pleasant Recollections of College Days at Davidson
MANY OTHER NOTABLES SEEN
College Matters Discussed With Educational Experts

Despite the fact that President Wilson is exceedingly busy at this time, owing to the critical situation in Mexico and
other important matters, he gave his close attention to President Martin during the interview on last Thursday, March 26. After
waiting for about thirty minutes, President Martin was cordially greeted by Mr. Wilson, who laid aside other matters of State
to recall pleasantly for a few moments his college days at Davidson and to enquire about the institution as it
is now. He spoke of President Martin's father, whom he familiarly called Malone Martin. This is a clear explanation of
the facts connected with his leaving, which is a matter that has not been fully understood by everyone before. A
word about Mrs. Wilson's brother, Professor Axson, of Princeton, who was also a Davidson Freshman and a roommate of President
Martin, concluded the visit with a handshake and mutual good wishes. It was only a short interview, but characterized by
cordiality. President Martin, speaking of Mr. Wilson, said, "Mr. Wilson impressed me as better looking than his pictures, though they
are much like him. He gives you the impression of strength, with much of it held in reserve."

With Vice-President Marshall
In addition, President Martin joined the Charlotte delegation which called on Vice-President Marshall and invited him to speak at the
celebration of the signing of the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence. Congressman Webb introduced the delegation in the Vice-President’s room in
the Capitol, where in an informal way, the invitation was extended, first by Secretary Daniels, who stood up for the
“Mecklenburg Declaration and the 20th of May” in great shape, then by each of the party in turn. It was
only by Mr. Marshall’s acceptance that the matter was finally clinched. One of the arguments used by President Martin was
that the students of Davidson would close on the night of May 19 and that the student body would be
present in Charlotte in large numbers to greet him.

Many Civic Improvements
Other News of Interest About the Town
Mrs. L. Brady

Here are some of the things accomplished: trash cans have been placed on the streets, a vegetable garden was started,
a ditch drain on Main Street was installed at a cost of about $150. Literature on the care of outside
premises has been furnished to each family. Juniors sent out from a junior club have been organized. A club of
negro mothers has been formed. One health and two educational lectures have been given through the year. Cleaning day has
been observed each year since the club started. One educational meeting has been held, to which all teachers and parents
were invited. Vital matters to the school were discussed. A young athlete gives the children physical training out in the
open during recess, followed by games for the older children. Teachers and parents are delighted with the results and the
children are enthusiastic.

On Thursday night, the 9th inst., in the rooms on Main Street, the Civic Club was at home to the
town council and a few other guests. Plans were discussed about launching an anti-fly and mosquito campaign. Each family receives
the health bulletin from Raleigh.

Societies Elect Officers
Baseball Season Launched
Fine Prospects for a Good Season

The following games have been played:
March 22—Concord, Concord 0, Davidson 5.
March 23—Catawba 1, Davidson 8.
March 26—Oak Ridge 2, Davidson 3.
March 30—Buffalo, Davidson (rain).

Games for Coming Week:
April 1—Guilford at Davidson.
April 3—Trinity at Durham.

From the Eumenean Society, the following officers were elected: President, Norman Johnson; Vice-President, Perry; Secretary, J.P. Price. Much interest was
aroused over the election in the Eumenean Society, especially over the place of Secretary, to which all members were eligible.
Two men who ran for the position were found to be excellent runners.

PIM WINS $50 PRIZE
R. F. Pim won the prize of $50 in the Peace Contest held at the Normal in Greensboro, March 6.
The other contestants represented Wake Forest, Atlantic Christian College, Trinity, University of North Carolina, and Guilford.

The Civic Club has accomplished many things in beautifying the town, and the students of the college are in full
sympathy with their movement. A general campaign will be held to confer about ridding the town of flies and mosquitoes.
Committees have been appointed and steps taken to bring the matter officially before the board. Dr. J. J. Hall presided,
assisted by Prof. F. S. Richardson.

The Lyceum meeting in Shearer Hall, Monday night, will be the last of the year's course. A highly interesting and
amusing program is promised. Work on the Annual is progressing rapidly. It is expected to appear soon.

(Continued on Page 4.)gene ty Too bad we didn’t get a chance to defeat them. Same is true of Gastonia
rest Trinity Series. By next Wednesday we will see the “Bull” Ci rn red and the done th tae lea
jay mt « that can red, they have a far better team than they had last year. They have a
fast fielding and good hitting team. March 25, in their games with William and Mary, they simply walked over this
frome team to the tune of 10 to 0. On the day following, the University of North Carolina only defeated
this same team 1 to 0. On the next day, March 26, Elon won second place. Vernon Trinity lost to
the University of Davidson. Davidson should secure place next year.

ORCHESTRA GIVES CONCERT IN STATESVILLE. rmant 2 to 0, on it base running. S eaueN outplaying that team, March 28
Trinity walloped the Baptist 14 to 2. Now the team will have to go some to beat this strong bunch
of players, but Davidson can do it. Plenty Pep is the word! When playing on the Hill let every student
and back up the Red and Black Machines, “root, root, root, team!” and they can’t help but win. The following
men were taken to Gastonia to play Trinity: Stough, Crayton, Watkins, Witherington, ville, Osteen, Currie, Anderson, Pa: ple Kluttz, Keesler,
Walker, Christenbury, Manager Roberson, Assistant Manager Malloy, and Coach Cook. Special mention should be made of the excellent work done
by J. K. Morrison in his home town. H. W. Glasgow was here Monday to attend the funeral services of
his father, Mr. L. K. Glasgow. Ben Powell has been sick at home in Charlotte for two weeks.

CAROLINA CANCELS. The University of North Carolina manager has just wired Mr. Roberson that the game that was to be
played in Reda on April 20th will have to be canceled as they have too many games off their feet
already. The Davidson manager is almost certain that he can arrange another game with them for some day in April.

Davidsonian VOLUME LXXXVII TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994 NUMBER 2

$250,000 grant given for Johnston Gym renovation

By Mary Laura Moretz

As early as the next academic year, Davidson students will see Johnston Gym of Concord, Davidson now has part of
the funding. According to College Union Director William Brown, other basic work will include supply the additional money needed. Proposed
ideas include high ropes from the Capital Campaign, to be completed next summer. The course in the gym will include
meeting rooms, areas for exercise, and other facilities. Although there won't be any dramatic changes this year, the physical plant
will start immediately on some much-needed cosmetic remodeling. Work on the floors and new paint inside will make the gym
usable for intramural and club activities. Associates show that student needs will still require more space. Shandley and Brown agree
that the revamped building will not take the place of a new union. The changes will, however, utilize the available
space better and meet many of the needs expressed by students, faculty, and staff.

Photo by Kristina

With potential renovations, Johnston Gym could become B-ball courts to replace tennis parking lot?

By Ashlyn Dannelly

If Senior Class President B.J. Rudell has his way, the clank of basketballs hitting the rim will soon replace the
hum of car engines. The conversion of the lot into a six-hoop facility at Richardson Field, with one full court
and two cross courts, is proposed. A safety net would prevent balls from being thrown into the road or onto
the tennis courts. According to Rudell, he has been discussing the idea with Athletic Director Terry Holland for a year.
Holland and Rudell have See B-ball continued on page 2

Self-study to review campus life

By Mary Clare Jalonick

Once every ten years, every college and university in the South must be reviewed by SACS. This time around, Davidson
decided to put a different twist on the review process. For the next two years, the school will be fully
immersed in a self-study. A committee was formed to meet the requirements of SACS. The beginning for the compliance report
sets up a series of 330 criteria that Nelson calls “musts.” For example, the college “must have a library that
meets the needs of students.” This committee has to prove in some way that our library is sufficient. When they
are finished, outside officials and experts will come to the school to view their report. Director of Institutional Research John
Kelton will be a co-chair. He says, “We want to get the compliance report done as quickly as possible so
we can focus on the other studies, which are more vital to the college.” The other five committees are geared
to look at “very sensitive areas of the school.” See Study continued on page 3

KA cleans up to stay on campus

By Beth Lindsey

While most members of Patterson Court houses returned to school this semester to find merely an extra layer of dust
on the furniture, members of one house discovered their insignia removed. During the summer, college officials took action against Kappa
Alpha due to what Dean Shandley believes was a “cumulative effect of a year of heavy wear on the house.”
This penalty was further accentuated when no KA representative was present to paint the house. KA will soon be in
full operation. Evaluations of KA's progress will be conducted by Holmes and Dean based largely upon comments from Physical Plant
concerning the condition of the house. Despite the initial bad feelings on the part of KA members toward the college,
KA treasurer Nick Troiano recognizes that the college is working with the fraternity. His concern, however, lies with KA's having
to pay for the paint itself. Says Troiano, “Our house provides much of the total upkeep of the house -
an active social organization at Davidson.” Holmes says that though “the college hasn't renewed the lease, it hasn't said that
it won't.” The tentative values of the lease are still being negotiated. See KA continued on page 3

Africa: site for future summer program

By Susan Warren

Due largely to efforts by a Davidson group this summer, the college is considering a new study abroad program in
Africa. The group visited three countries in West Africa: Cote d'Ivoire, Ghana, and Senegal. Although tentative plans for the Africa
program resemble the format of the summer program in Cambridge, England, it would be a six-week program with 10 to
15 students. The most likely prospects are universities in all three places inspected last spring. Holmes says that though “the
college hasn't renewed the lease, it hasn't said that it won't.” The tentative values of the lease are still being
negotiated. See Africa continued on page 3

Another health care crisis

Growing up Les fruits de Soccer wins

Humor columnist Tony Tunstall returns to campus infirmary. NEWS 3

South Carolina first returns to campus infirmary. OPINIONS 6

Mal ts tein ARTS 9

SPORTS 10
