THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1994

This Week in Washington

Russia pressures Serbs to withdraw

By Brett Marston

Taking the West by surprise, Russian officials announced on Thursday that they have persuaded the Serbs to comply with the
recent NATO ultimatum, which threatens the Serb forces around Sarajevo with air strikes unless they move their artillery away from
the city. Deputy Foreign Minister Vitaly I. Churkin met with Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic at the end of the
week to negotiate a plan which would bring 800 Russian peacekeeping troops into Bosnia if the Serbs comply with NATO
demands.

“We can say that any airstrikes on Bosnian Serb positions are ruled out,” Churkin announced on Thursday, according to the
New York Times, “for the simple reason that there will be no targets for these strikes.”

UN military spokesman Lieut. Col. Bill Aikman confirmed that the Serbs around Sarajevo are on the move. “Literally, they’re moving
out in convoys, not in individual vehicles,” he said on Thursday. “Clearly there’s a major withdrawal going on.”

On February 9th, NATO pledged to begin air strikes of Serbian positions around Sarajevo unless the Serbs move their heavy
artillery to positions twenty kilometers from the city or turn the weapons over to UN forces in the area by
1:00 AM local time on February 21. NATO also threatened to order air strikes sooner if Serbs continue their shelling
of the Bosnian capital. Further, the NATO ultimatum urges the Bosnian government to “refrain from attacks launched from within the
current confrontation lines in the city,” and to place their artillery under UN control.

Admitting that “neither we nor anyone else can impose a peace with military actions,” U.S. Defense Department spokesman Walter Slocombe
announced in a press conference on Feb. 10th that NATO intends to “show resolve” and “reduce the kind of carnage
we saw last weekend,” referring to the Serbian mortar attack on the central market in Sarajevo which left 68 people
dead and 200 wounded.

On the Wednesday after this attack, UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali wrote a letter to NATO leaders reminding them of
the UN resolution from last July which names Sarajevo a “safety zone,” and recalling a NATO statement from Jan. 11th
which threatens the Serbs with air strikes should the war in Bosnia continue. Ghali urged NATO leaders to make preparations
for air strikes.

In a statement on Feb. 9th, President Clinton presented justifications for NATO’s move. “We have an interest in showing that
NATO, history’s greatest military alliance, remains a credible force for peace in post cold-war Europe,” Clinton declared, according to the
New York Times. “We have an interest in stemming the destabilizing flows of refugees that this horrible conflict is creating.
And we clearly have a humanitarian interest in helping to prevent the strangulation of Sarajevo and the continuing slaughter of
innocents in Sarajevo.”

Originally, neither the Russians nor the Serbs showed much enthusiasm for NATO demands. Soon after NATO issued the ultimatum, the
French newspaper Le Monde quoted a Bosnian Serb official as saying that “the first victim of intervention will be the
Muslim army [and] the second victims will be the ‘blue helmets,’” referring to the UN peacekeeping troops.

Just days after the NATO decision, Russian Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev sent a letter to Boutros-Ghali, announcing that Russia
would veto any NATO operation put before the UN Security Council. The Russian announcement last week and Serb compliance with
NATO’s demands could amount to new chances for peace around Sarajevo. Karadzic himself seemed optimistic. “We are going toward the
end of the war at least in Sarajevo,” he said on Thursday, again according to the New York Times, “and
that may be the introduction of the end of the war in all Bosnia and Hercegovina.”

Karadzic has made similar pronouncements before. But if this peace lasts, and NATO isn’t forced to follow through on their
threats, then a new, slightly more hopeful phase of the Balkan war may have just begun.

Additional Sources: the Frankfurter Allgemeine (Germany)

Perspective

NOTES

Generation X ...a myth?

“This generation, they wrote last year in the Atlantic, is the product of a ‘countermood popping up in college towns,
in big cities, on Fox and cable TV. It’s a tone of physical frenzy and spiritual numbness, a revelry of
pop, a pursuit of high tech, guiltless fun. . . . A generation weaned on minimal expectations and gifted in
the game of life.’

There’s just one problem with all of this thumb-sucking on behalf of America’s young adults. It seems that disaffected Twentysomethings
appear to exist only in the fervid imaginations of a few writers and pop psychologists, claims political scientist Everett Ladd
in the latest issue of Public Perspective. A review of survey data suggests to Ladd that young adults aren’t more
or less optimistic than other generations about their personal condition or the future of the country, nor do they feel
they’ve been given the short end of the economic stick by their greedy parents. For example, they noted that two
years ago the Gallup Organization asked a random sample of Americans whether, ‘in general, are you satisfied or dissatisfied with
the way things are going in your personal life?” Among those 18 to 29 years old, only 18% expressed dissatisfaction
with their lives, compared to 22% of those 30 to 49 years old and 19% of those 50 or older.”

-from an editorial piece by Richard Morinthe viewpoint page of the Charlotte Observer, Tuesday, February 15, 1994

Anti-intellectualism at Duke

“Is Duke, one of the nation’s top-ranked universities, intellectual?” Reynolds Price, a novelist and the James B. Duke professor of
English, delivered a speech—one that lambasted students for their “blank faces” in class. If you listen to students, he said,
you’ll hear one sentence more than any other: “I can’t believe how drunk I was last night.” Some people think
fraternities are to blame. Price is calling for a gradual phase-out of fraternities—and making all dorms coed.” -from a piece
by Jeri Fischer-Krentzon on the “Around the South” page of the Atlanta Constitution, Tuesday, January 4, 1994.

Shi, Ortmayer speak on Vietnam as part of Dean Rusk forum

By Clare Jalonick

Changes in American foreign policy affected by the Vietnam War were addressed by Dr. David E. Shi and Dr. Louis
Ortmayer in “Interventionism: the Vietnam Syndrome, Past and Present.” Shi, former Davidson history department chair, and Ortmayer, Davidson political science
professor, delivered their lecture in conjunction with the Dean Rusk, Nations Bank conference on “Conscience and Foreign Policy.”

According to David Shi, Vietnam was a “highly ambiguous, highly civil struggle.” Shi began by giving an account of the
emotional and physical toll taken by the war. 2.5 million were killed, including 58,000 Americans killed and 4 million injured.
Soldiers returned with severe psychological and physical scars. Although these statistics are comparable to any war in which America has
been involved, Shi says Vietnam was different because it left Americans “with a sense of bad conscience.”

“Vietnam affected all of us,” he said. One of the most immediate effects of the war was the Vietnam Syndrome,
a new attitude in American government. Many politicians claimed that America ought never to engage in military conflict again unless
attacked. There was much support for the idea of abandoning military force as a control over foreign policy. As the
Vietnam decade passed, attitudes changed again and foreign policy shifted towards interventionism. Shi argues that Americans tend toward intervention and
the glorification of war because, “from the colonial period to the present, Americans have seen themselves as divinely ordained.”

Shi believes that the lessons taught by Vietnam can be valuable. “We did not lose our political innocence, for that
faded long ago, but our naive confidence. The tragic experience can be good. It reminds nations of their fallibility.” He
hopes that as we near the end of the century we will neither strive to be the world’s policemen, nor
let Vietnam keep us from intervening when we should.

Ortmayer spoke about the recent grapplings with the Vietnam syndrome. George Bush claims that “the Vietnam Syndrome has been laid
to rest.” Ortmayer believes otherwise. He hopes that the current government can learn from Vietnam in dealing with such conflicts
today as Somalia, Haiti, and Bosnia. Objectives should be clearly delineated, and “intervention should be limited to clearly defined humanitarian
objectives.” Americans should ask themselves which interests are really worth defending. He suggests that we find a good balance.

After Shi and Ortmayer spoke, Julie Petty, a senior political science major, and Lorie Logan, a junior political science major,
gave their views regarding specific countries. Petty addressed the situation in Haiti, while Logan spoke about Somalia. Shi is now
Vice President of Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty at Furman University. Ortmayer was awarded the 1993 Professor of the
Year award by the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education.

The Dean Rusk Program Newsletter to spread word about International Student Association

By Saad Gul

The International Newsletter will serve as a forum for Davidson students who wish to share personal international experiences with others
who are interested. The new project is a joint venture initiated by the International Student Association and the Dean Rusk
Student Advisory Committee. The aim of the newsletter is to enhance interaction between international and American students at Davidson, as
well as to increase international awareness among the student body as a whole.

In the past, functions such as International Jeopardy, lectures, forums and discussions have not attracted large numbers of students partly
because students who would have been interested were unaware of the events. The International Student Association and its incoming leaders
hope that the newsletter will keep the campus as a whole informed about ISA activities, as well as its nature
and aims. The organization is open to all students, but few Americans have joined. The exact format for the newsletter
is still under discussion, but it hopes to take the form of a slip-in supplement to The Davidsonian, perhaps included
twice a semester.

As a student affair, the newsletter will emphasize student experiences and concerns, such as a Russian student’s explanation of how
the current turmoil in the Russian Federation affects him. Have you ever worked in an international restaurant and thrown away
some garbage—only to find out later that it was the owner’s lunch? Mistaken your roommate’s home country flag for some
obscure NCAA pennant? Expected your Arab roommate to apply for a camel parking permit? Worked abroad? JYA? Been an exchange
student? Students interested in contributing to the newsletter should call Saad Gul (6195) or Eric Collings (6190) for further information.

Programming Note: Mr. Perry Crosswhite ‘69, Secretary General of the Australian Olympic Committee, will speak at a lunch on Wednesday,
February 23. Students can sign up at the Union Desk for the lunch.
