6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

This Week in Washington

Republicans control headlines and Houses

By Andrea Short

The elections may be over, but the Republicans are making loud claims that last week’s coup was just the beginning
of real change. Wasting no time, Newt Gingrich, the controversial and confrontational Georgia representative, last week announced his plans to
overhaul the House. Gingrich promised that he would keep the House working for 20-hour days and seven-day weeks until he
passed his “Contract with America.”

The contrast between Gingrich’s fiery style and Senator Bob Dole’s quieter, more accommodating conservatism has caused speculation about how unified
the Republicans really are. Gingrich’s brand of politics is to demand change — radical and quick change. Already he has
disposed of three House committees in his quest to reduce Congressional staffs by one-third. The District of Columbia, Post Office
and Civil Service, and Merchant Marine and Fisheries Committees have all been dismissed. His recommendations for committee chairmen have been
no less radical; he has bypassed senior members and recommended more junior representatives for the Judicial and other powerful committees.

These substantial structural changes constitute only part of the ambitious plans that Gingrich and others are calling “The Transformation.” A
strongly moral, traditionally conservative ideology characterizes Gingrich’s goals. A politician known more for his opposition than initiation of legislation has
identified school prayer, term limits, tax cuts, and a balanced budget amendment as target goals for the upcoming Congress. The
newest and most controversial goal Gingrich has announced, however, is his plan to place children of welfare recipients in orphanages.

This inflammatory plan has attracted much criticism from both parties. Senator Dole, whose quiet ability to compromise and build consensus
differs drastically from Gingrich’s, said of the plan on CNN’s Late Edition, “Orphanages may be going too far, but I’m
not going to get in a fight with Newt Gingrich.”

Many of the differences between Gingrich and Dole are characteristic of the Congress itself. The House, by virtue of its
large numbers, is more argumentative and less apt to reach or accept compromise. The Senate’s smaller size and filibuster rule
foster a much more deliberative, thoughtful legislating and allow senators to place more value upon reaching a consensus. Christopher Dodd,
the Connecticut senator seeking the position of minority leader, described the majority as “really three kinds of Republicans: House Republicans,
Senate Republicans, and Senate Republicans who served recently in the House.”

The sudden attention to the 1996 Presidential race has not helped to smooth differences within the Republican Party. Senator Gramm
from Texas and Senator Specter from Pennsylvania have wasted no time in publicizing their expected bids for the White House.
Senators Dole, Gramm, and Specter all traveled to Iowa last week to “visit” the state that holds one of the
earliest Republican presidential caucuses. The field is by no means narrowed to three, however, on Monday The New York Times
profiled 12 Republicans who may throw their hat in the ring. The illustrious or infamous list, depending on your ideology,
included Senator Dole, former Vice President Quayle, Jack Kemp, Gov. Pete Wilson of California, and James A. Baker.

With the return to the majority and the electoral mandate, Republicans are, as one Rutgers political science professor describes, “like
people who have been released from extended incarceration, coming out in the light and squinting, and feeling a sort of
sense of vengeance toward their jailers.”

Sources include: The November 14, 15, and 17 issues of The New York Times.

The Dean Rusk Program

Foreign policy after the elections

By Jack Perry

After the Republican victory in the Congressional elections, the United States now enters a two-year period in which all policies,
including foreign policy, are subject to a sharp tug-of-war between the Republicans on the Hill and the Democrat in the
White House.

Making foreign policy in a time of divided government is not at all new, but several factors make this a
new situation whose outcome is not clear. First, it is almost unprecedented in modern times for the GOP to have
both houses of Congress while the Democrats have the Presidency — usually it is the other way around. Second, for
the first time since Franklin Roosevelt, we do not have the Cold War as the organizing principle of foreign policy.
In the post-Cold-War world, American priorities and duties and even interests are much harder to discern and still harder to
agree on. Third, partisanship seems to have been growing in Washington politics, so that “finding a middle way,” often a
proclaimed ideal, especially in foreign policy, is not in fashion.

After the sharp Republican vs. Democrat fighting over membership in the League of Nations following World War I, a fresh
spirit of bipartisanship grew in Washington during and after World War II, so that in the formative years of the
Cold War the Democrats found the minority Republicans strongly supporting their major initiatives such as NATO, the Truman Doctrine, and
the Marshall Plan. No more. While bipartisanship can still coalesce around major problems — especially when American troops go abroad,
as in Grenada, Panama, the Gulf War, and now Haiti — there is a spirit of division in Washington that
surfaces even on foreign policy issues like intervention abroad. President Clinton may find it harder to get a Republican Congress
to back some of his foreign policy decisions.

This is especially true of a fourth factor: the chairmanship of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee by Jesse Helms. Helms
is known as a maverick, an original with his own personal agenda in foreign affairs and a high disdain for
“foreign policy experts,” especially those in the Foreign Service Department of the State Department. He has thrown down the gauntlet
to Clinton on GATT, and unless Clinton lets himself berun over by Helms — which he cannot afford to do
— Helms, in all probability, is going to try to make foreign policy a difficult realm for Clinton over the
next two years. In the domestic political context, this acquires special significance because a sitting President traditionally, although not with
such success recently, makes foreign policy an asset for reelection. Admittedly this did not work for George Bush, but it
has for other Presidents, especially for Richard Nixon, and Clinton would probably love to have some foreign policy successes to
bolster the image of ‘Presidential leadership” as he runs for reelection in 1996. Helms hates that idea. Do other Republican
leaders hate the idea? It will be of great importance for foreign policy to see whether the Republican party puts
forward responsible, moderate leaders in foreign policy who are willing to work with Clinton on common goals. To do so
would clearly be in the national interest, in the sense of a “grand coalition” in difficult times forging a national
consensus on main directions for foreign policy. This is what happened after World War II. At the onset of the
post-Cold-War era, will it happen again? It seems doubtful.

Some areas seem bound to bring clashes. They include Russia and Eastern Europe, where support for Yeltsin and a go-slow
policy on NATO membership for Eastern Europe may come under Republican challenge. They also include the controversial North Korea policy.
Other aspects of Asian policy may also get fought over. And of course they include the foreign crises that are
bound to come — in Bosnia, or in the Middle East — and bring up the always bitter debate about
whether to intervene. At a time of divided government, foreign policy will be far from the major battleground, but it
may — especially with the machinations of Jesse Helms — bring some interesting moments of controversy. How the leaders of
both parties handle them will be a test of statesmanship.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1994

Urban Legends

From the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) file for alt.folklore.urban, a news group on the Internet in which readers post urban
legends and discuss their veracity. Terry Chan, an economist in Berkeley, California, maintains the FAQ. Using sources cited by readers,
he determines whether the legends are true, false, or “unanswerable” and then adds them to the list excerpted below. The
news group has about 150,000 readers a month.

A penny falling from the top of the Empire State Building will embed itself in the pavement. (false)
Microwaving panties kills yeast infections. (believed false but not conclusively proven)
Bubbles in bubble wrap contain a cheap but toxic gas. (false)
You can send a coconut through the mail without any further wrapping. (true)
If your college roommate commits suicide you get automatic A’s in your courses. (false)
Three Men and a Baby has a scene with a real ghost in it. (false)
Family visited wilderness park. They saw bears and wanted to get “cute pics” of bear with child, so they smeared
honey on child’s cheek. Bear ate child’s face. (believed false but not conclusively proven)
Koalas are always stoned/drunk from the alcohol in eucalyptus leaves. (false)
Koalas, being filled with eucalyptus oil, explode in brushfires. (false)
Mikey from Life cereal commercials exploded from eating Pop Rocks with soda. (false)
Little Mermaid video cover features a clear drawing of penis. (true)
Sesame Street’s Bert and Ernie are gay. (false)

From Harper's October 1994

Family Values

“None of these battles [Hands out our pockets, hands off our children, end judicial tyranny, reform the welfare mess, and
teach American values without apology] will be easy. The liberal elites still control the White House, the media, the universities
and the Washington bureaucracy. But there is one thing the new majority GOP can do on its own. It must
speak the truth about American culture. Everyone knows democratic capitalism can’t exist without a virtuous people. We all know tax
changes won’t be enough to save us if the family continues to disintegrate. A line-item veto and a Balanced Budget
Amendment won’t bring American renewal if our children are raised in a sex-saturated, violence-obsessed culture. The new GOP congressmen and
senators on their way to Washington include dozens who understand these issues. I am hopeful that they and the GOP
leadership already in town will be willing to speak to the hearts of the American people...”

From Gary Bauer’s “Don’t Forget Family Issues” in November 18, 1994’s Wall Street Journal.

Killing Presidents

“Why do we want to kill our President?” A doctor asked me that the other day, and left me wondering
whether there is something about the American system, or the American psyche, that now makes the Presidency a hopelessly vulnerable
institution. “With the exception of Reagan who was sui generis,” he said, “we have cut off every President for nearly
30 years: Johnson, Nixon, Ford, Carter, Bush. Now it looks as if the same will happen to Clinton. We don’t
just say they failed at this or that. We say they failed as human beings, and we seem to get
satisfaction from that idea. There’s almost a glee about it: ‘Boy, he really was terrible.’

“With each of those Presidents one can find a fault that led to his undoing. Lyndon Johnson dug us into
the disaster of Vietnam. Richard Nixon was responsible for the lies and abuses of Watergate. And on and on.

“Vietnam and Watergate, moreover, had lasting effects on the institution. We ceased to believe Presidents, to assume their good faith.
The press became hostile, and has remained so. It did not give Bill Clinton even a brief honeymoon.”

From Anthony Lewis’s “The King Must Die” in November 18, 1994’s New York Times.

The Davidsonian is looking for a circulation manager and a business manager for the spring semester. Both positions are paid
and extremely prestigious. Call Leigh or Alex (2148).
