THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 1994

What are you getting for your board bill money?
By Jay Jennings

Do you question the value of your dollar when it comes to paying your semester meal plan? Who on campus
is getting the best deal and where? Whether your money goes to a house on Patterson Court or to Vail,
it is still hard to part with, especially when you are doubting the quality or quantity of food. All students
go through such doubts, but they do not all have to pay the same fee. The prices for women’s eating
houses are considerably lower than those for the fraternities. Because the women’s houses generally have larger memberships and lower social
budgets, their board bills, as well as social fees, are less than those of men’s.

Those who choose to eat in the Commons are privy to a wider variety of meals, as well as payment
plans. Meal plans at Vail vary from 10 meals to the Quantum Meal Plan, which provides a certain number of
breakfasts and lunches. These plans range in price from $564.50 for the senior/off-campus plan to $1,162 for the nineteen meal
plan. Only freshmen are denied choices at the Commons their first semester. The college forces each to pay in advance
for a 19 meal plan. This is not always popular, as Junior Neal Andrews says the 19 meal plan is
“a waste because the full number are rarely used.” Carlton Pritchard, the Director of Auxiliary Services, says that...

To lift or not to lift: the free-weight dilemma
Baker continued from page 1

...adequate a workout as the equipment and free-weights in the old weight room. Both Rudell and Candelario feel that a
student panel should be formed to advise the athletic administrators of student sentiment. Candelario would like to see a public
forum held regarding the weight room change. Candelario plans to submit the petition and signatures to the athletic department early
this week.

Athletic Administration’s Position
The Athletic Department has been surprised by the show of opposition to the changes it thought would be welcomed by
students. The department instituted the changes in an effort to heed student requests for longer Baker hours and to respond
to complaints by varsity athletes of overcrowding in the weight room. The “4-6 rule” was intended to give varsity athletes
priority in the weight room for two hours a day but was not enforced.

The administration was unable to solve the problem by simply extending hours in the old weight room because of the
difficulty they had keeping the room staffed with trained work-study students. Under the new arrangement, athletic coaches will staff the
old weight room on a rotating basis. Work-study students will staff the new room with the work-study student manning Baker’s
front desk, adjacent to the new room, serving as a back-up.

Athletic Director Terry Holland feels that the changes made create a positive environment for students but argues that the athletic
department cannot accommodate each individual’s needs. Assistant Athletic Director Bob Price noted that the athletic department has a strong desire
to serve the student population. He believes that the expanded hours and improved equipment will meet student needs. In response
to complaints about the absence of free-weights in the new room, Ron Morrow, Director of Physical Education, suggested that students
who desire a free-weight workout use the Smith machine. Work-study students, he said, have been trained in operation of the
new equipment and will assist students.

The administration is convinced that students can get a good workout on the new equipment but has arranged a program
through the football weight room for those who are serious...about free-weights.

The Future

The change is only one week old and the athletic department has vowed to monitor usage of the new facility
and to consider expansion if it is warranted. However, this pledge does not address the current status of the new
weight room nor student concerns. Students should voice their opinion on this issue, either positive or negative, by submitting their
comments to the athletic department in the suggestion box at the Baker front desk or by contacting Candelario or Rudell.

SPRING ANNOUNCEMENT

6 weeks

Two Confidential Support Groups at the Student Counseling Center:

1. Survivors of sexual assault, abuse, rape, or date rape.
First meeting: Thursday, Feb. 3rd, 7:30-8:30 p.m.

2. Students who are struggling with issues surrounding food and body image.
First meeting: Monday, Feb. 7th, 8:00-8:55 p.m.

Please call Christine Davidson for more information at x2451.

The reasoning behind the 19 meal plan is to “start the freshmen off on the right foot and give them
three square meals a day and two on the play days.” There are several specialized plans, such as the five
meal plan which is available to seniors living off-campus. The Quantum Plan was created this year in order to allow
members of a fraternity or eating house to have breakfast and lunch at the Commons, Union, or Baker and then
have dinner at their house. Junior G.A. McClung thinks that the Quantum meal is better than the fourteen meal plan
because “the Union can be used for meals instead of having to use bonus bucks.”

People eating in either a fraternity or an eating house also have options in the house from which to choose.
The women’s houses, however, are more flexible with their members with many options to suit varying conflicts. Full board at
a women’s house includes breakfast, lunch, and dinner during the week and meals on the weekend, while full board at
the men’s houses consists of only 10 to 15 meals. Connor House has the least expensive price of the women’s
eating houses with full board at $720, which includes 19 meals. At the other end of the spectrum, Sig Ep
has the least expensive price for the men at $925. This includes ten meals and no breakfasts. While on the
other side of the court, the men of Phi Delt pay...

See Bills on page 8

Call Us! 896-8007
Shops on the Green - Cornelius
HOURS: 4pm-12 midnight

NEW ADDITIONS: Twisty Bread, Salad, Cheddar Cheese

Valid at participating stores only. Prices may vary. Tax not included. Delivery area limited to ensure safe driving. Limited time
only. ©1993 Domino’s Pizza Inc. Participating stores only.

NITE SPECIAL

$9 No coupon necessary
Order 10 - Close Sunday-Thursday only

LARGE CHEESE MEAL DEAL
Additional toppings 50¢ each
MEDIUM additional toppings 35¢ each

2 QT. PKG. OF KOOL-AID
Expires 2-6-94

2 FOR 1 MONDAY ONLY
2 MEDIUM PIZZAS FOR THE PRICE OF A LARGE
Expires 2-6-94

MONDAY SPECIAL
2 MEDIUM PIZZAS FOR THE PRICE OF A LARGE
Expires 2-6-94

NEW DEEP DISH
$8.99
Expires 2-6-94

DEEP DISH FOR A MEDIUM WITH 2-TOPPINGS
Expires 2-6-94

FREE TWISTY BREAD
WITH PURCHASE OF ANY MEDIUM PIZZA WITH TWO OR MORE TOPPINGS OR ANY LARGE PIZZA
Expires 2-6-94

PLUS 2 LITER COKE
Expires 2-6-94

THURSDAY ONLY
2 LARGE 1 TOPPING PIZZAS
$10.99
Additional toppings $1.50 each
Expires 2-6-94
