6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1994

This Week in Washington

Pope dominates population conference, Washington frustrated

By Andrea Short

Most casual observers and the Pope probably think that Cairo hosted an abortion debate last week. Actually, the week-long world
population conference that will end tomorrow was designed to address much broader humanitarian goals: managing resources, nutrition and health concerns,
improving women’s lives, economic development, and providing safe and effective family planning methods. Conference participants hope that the final accord
will effectively allocate 17 billion dollars into locally administered programs by the year 2000. This year’s conference pinpointed improving women’s
status as a crucial step in reducing the population growth in developing nations.

The recently-released study “The ‘Second India’ Revisited” illustrates how vital a high quality of life is to curbing the population.
South India boasts high literacy rates for women, equality between the sexes, and a high average age for first marriages,
all of which contribute to the two children per family average. By contrast, North India suffers from illiteracy among women,
gender inequality, and a low average age for first marriages, causing the considerably higher rate of five children per family.
This research supports the theory that economic development, improved status of women, and available family planning must all interact to
effectively reduce the population explosion.

Spotlighting women and effective family planning in Cairo has produced two programs that will aid population control efforts. Ten nations
with successful family planning programs, an alliance called “Partners in Population and Development: A South-South Initiative,” will share their expertise
with other developing nations. The allied nations that include Colombia, Morocco, Kenya, and Population Conference host Egypt have all managed
to lower birth rates significantly in the past two decades. Two United States conference delegates, U.S. Representatives Pat Schroeder (D-CO)
and Constance Morella (R-MD), will create an action plan to aid women worldwide. The bipartisan program would work with U.S.
assistance programs to expand educational and financial aid to women throughout the international community.

Despite its humanitarian aims, the conference has included some mud-slinging and tactical manipulation over abortion. Surprisingly, the Vatican allied itself
with some Muslim countries last week in an attempt to stall the accord and prevent any mention of abortion in
the document. The Vatican has refused to sign the accords that resulted from the 1974 conference in Romania and the
Mexico City conference in 1984. Strong antagonism between the U.S. delegation, led by Vice-President Al Gore, and the Vatican has
remained. The European Union has moderated between the two delegations, specifically reworking the language regarding abortion, to reach some agreement.
Last Tuesday, however, the Vatican garnered enough support from its allies to confound the consensus vote on one paragraph of
the 113-page document and stall progress for two days. The accord in no way advocates abortion as a family planning
method; the language merely states that where legalized abortion exists, the procedures should be safe. Pope John Paul II has
verbally attacked Vice-President Gore and denounced the accord’s plan as “a project of systematic death.”

Frustration with the Vatican’s delays has prompted many nations to denounce the Pope’s position and the delegation’s tactics. After the
Vatican and a small minority of nations sent the accord back for reworking again on Tuesday, many delegations booed their
efforts. Defending the Pope’s position, a Chief Vatican spokesman called “an international document preparing policies for governments that deal with
human beings” a concept that is “completely unacceptable.” Perhaps someone should have better explained the term “population conference” to him.
The Pope’s insistence has alienated some Catholic countries and groups such as Catholics for Choice, splintering the Vatican’s traditional sources
of support.

The Dean Rusk Program

Cuba: Another refugee crisis

By Graham Ernst

Since Fidel Castro announced that he would not stop citizens from leaving his country, more than 22,000 Cubans have started
the 90-mile voyage across the Florida straits in search of political asylum in the United States. However, most all of
the make-shift rafts were intercepted by U.S. Coast Guard vessels, which escorted refugees to the U.S. Naval Base at Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba. This base is now home to over 40,000 Cuban and Haitian refugees. While Cuban and American officials discuss
how many U.S. visas will be issued, the conditions at Guantanamo are deteriorating. There are now daily accounts of organized
stone throwing against U.S. soldiers. While moving some of the refugees to Panama may provide temporary relief at Guantanamo, no
solution is offered for the cause of the problem: the continuingflow of refugees. Unfortunately, Cuba is only a small-scale example
of the growing global refugee crisis. Today, there are more than 23 million refugees worldwide. Sources of this increase include
new ethnic conflicts in former Yugoslavia, Somalia, Sudan, Angola, Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Rwanda; old foes have continued fighting in
Afghanistan; former Soviet republics Georgia, Tajikistan, Armenia, and Azerbaijan have also fallen victim to this trend of domestic violence. Each
of the preceding conflicts has resulted in at least a half million refugees, 25 times more people than the Cuban
exodus. In comparison to other refugee camps, the situation in Cuba is tame. In late June, Rwandans were crossing the
border into Zaire at a rate of 10,000 people per hour. Adding to the problem, Zaire lacks many of the
same resources as the U.S. to help their neighbors. The international community must work together to prevent this global crisis
from expanding. Unfortunately, support has been weak. Neighboring countries are reluctant to host refugees. Pakistan closed its borders to hundreds
of thousands when Muslims resumed fighting in Afghanistan. Zaire temporarily blocked off its bridges when news spread of another mass
exodus from Rwanda in late August. Even the United States, with all of its resources, has been unwilling to accept
a mere 40,000 refugees from Cuba and Haiti. Although the United Nations appears equipped to handle the crisis, memories of
failed efforts in Somalia and the continued fighting in Bosnia-Herzegovina reflect the poor results of U.N. involvement.

The immediate problems of overcrowding will grow worse if the global community doesn’t cooperate to stop the increased flow of
refugees across the globe. Unfortunately, the driving forces of the problem, civil wars, and illegitimate governments are not easy to
solve. They involve complex political issues and deep-rooted hatred among races. Unless we find a way to stop the flow
of international refugees at its source, this predicament will continue to plague us into the next century. Sources include the
August 8 and September 6 issues of The New York Times.

NOTES
Nicholaas Biegman, the vice chairman of the drafting committee, expressed disgust at the narrow aims of the Vatican. “We have
just a week and a half to attract the attention of the world, and all we read is abortion, abortion,
abortion,” Biegman said. “I deeply regret it. I think it’s a pity.” Thursday did bring progress on other issues of
the conference. Leaving the abortion debate aside, nations neared agreement on the spending levels needed to slow population growth. These
negotiations will allow the conference delegates to solidify the programs that are expected to be in place by the year
2000. Sources expect the United States’ current contribution to the 17 billion dollar fund—585 million—to reach 1.9 billion by the
year 2000. Sources include the September 5, 7, 8, and 9 issues of The New York Times and the September
5 issue of Time.

Write for news. Call Ashlyn at -2148.

-Reprinted from the September 11, 1994 New York Times.

And Now for the Good News
“The only good news for the environment is bad news from other perspectives: the economic problems that have beset the
nation since the Soviet Union died are so severe that rapacious development has actually slowed. That has helped alleviate the
threat to Lake Baikal, which only a few years ago was starting to feel the strong polluting effect of an
enormous paper mill on its southern shores.”

-Reprinted from the September 11, 1994 New York Times.

¢ Airline Tickets
¢ Amtrak
¢ BritRail & Eurail
¢ Spring Break
¢ Youth Hostel
¢ Groups

VILLAGE TRAVEL & ANCHORS AWAY CRUISES
“OUR SERVICES ARE FREE”
892-9020
