THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 11, 1994

Policies including pass/fail and minimum GPA studied by EPC

By Jeff Kent

The Education Policies Committee recently discussed a revised pass/fail policy, changes in standards of progress, and a new approach to
retaking classes.

The EPC consists of a group of eight faculty members and two student representatives from the SGA. All new policies
discussed by the committee will commence in the fall semester of the next academic year.

The committee is currently discussing a new pass/fail policy that would allow students a less rigid and binding system of
choosing classes for pass/fail credit. One proposed idea would allow students to change a class from pass/fail to normal credit
later in the semester. Extending the deadline for the pass/fail petitions has been an issue of some debate. Despite considerable
discussion by the SGA and other related organizations, the EPC has not addressed the petition issue yet, as they are
waiting for a final decision from the SGA.

The EPC recently passed a new standard of progress. Under the new design, there will be a minimal GPA required
for sophomores and juniors. To enter the second year at Davidson with good standing, students must now receive at least
a 1.6 GPA. If they do not, then they will be placed on academic probation, during which they will receive
advice and counseling by the college to help them improve their performance. For entry into the junior year, students must
now earn at least a 1.8 GPA; without this minimum requirement, no students will be invited back to Davidson for
their third year. Dr. Louis Ortmayer, a faculty member of the EPC, says that all students have the right to
appeal for their return to Davidson if they fall in this category.

A minimum GPA for graduation was discussed by the committee, but the members decided that achievement in the student’s major
is sufficient.

The committee is still debating a new policy for retaking classes. Dr. Ortmayer says that to “add some flexibility to
meet the new standards of progress” a new system has been presented. Under this proposal, when students retake classes, they
could count only the second grade in their GPA. The first grade would still be recorded on the official transcript,
but would not figure into the GPA. The current system allows students to average the two grades. Many faculty believe
that if the results of the first course are completely wiped away from the student’s GPA, then there will be
a rush to retake courses to boost their GPA.

The WDAV spring membership drive hopes to garner 1900 members this week. Photo by Amy Laukkanen

Cyclists promote AIDS awareness

By Court McBryde

“AIDS is an issue that concerns and affects us all, and that is why for the second year in a
row Bike Aid has selected this issue as the theme of its trip,” said Bike Aid Coordinator Julie Reevy.

This summer cyclists will continue a nine-year tradition by biking across the United States promoting AIDS and HIV awareness. Each
group of cyclists follows a different route and makes several stops along the way to give presentations to a variety
of groups. The presentations aim to reach small communities, church youth groups, and individuals, educating them about AIDS and warning
them of its dangers.dangers. Five routes will be taken this summer, each with a different point of departure and itinerary,
but all five groups of cyclists will meet together at their final destination, Washington, DC, on August 22. Three ten-week
trips depart from Portland (focusing specifically on Texas), will serve as the starting point for a six-week trip beginning July
6. A group will leave July 31 for three weeks from Montreal. Bike Aid is currently in the process of
recruiting students to participate in the event, in which cyclists cover an average of 70 miles a day. Riders must
raise $2000 in pledges for their trip, all of which will go to nationwide AIDS and HIV projects. College-age students
from diverse national and international backgrounds are well represented, but there is no age limit for participation. Reevy, who participated
in Bike Aid last summer, says, “The AS.-L0_...) provide community links and to link the different perspectives that exist from
town to town.” For more information concerning Bike Aid call (415) 431-4480, or write to Bike Aid, 333 Valencia Street,
Suite 330, San Francisco, California, 94103.

Plasma-sunsational! This summer is sunsational! Make this summer even better when you donate plasma that will be used for saving
lives. You'll receive up to $30 for your first donation.

DOMINO’S PIZZA
Call Us! 896-8007
Shops on the Green - Cornelius
HOURS: 4pm - 12 midnight, 7 days a week

NEW ADDITIONS: Twisty Bread, Salad, Cheddar Cheese
* Valid at this location only. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure
safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Cash value 1/20¢. ©1994 Domino's Pizza Inc.

2 MEDIUM PIZZAS
2 TOPPINGS
FOR THE PRICE OF 1
$12.95
*Not valid on deep dish. Not valid with other offers. Coupon expires 5/18/94.

LATE NIGHT SPECIAL
Good 10PM-Midnight
Sunday-Thursday
Large cheese pizza $6.00 including tax
1 Medium 1 topping $5.00 including tax
* Not valid on deep dish. Not valid with other offers. Coupon expires 5/18/94.

Medium 2 topping deep dish pizza $8.00
OR
Large 2 topping deep dish pizza $10.00
* Not valid with other offers. Coupon expires 5/18/94.

$2.00 OFF
Any medium pizza
* Not valid with other offers. Coupon expires 5/18/94.

$3.00 OFF
Any large pizza
* Not valid with other offers. Coupon expires 5/18/94.

2 Medium Pizzas for the price of a Large
* Not valid with other offers. Coupon expires 5/18/94.

Plasma Alliance
Earn up to $175.00 by donating in your first month. New donors automatically become eligible to win $150 in a
weekly drawing.
1511 Central Ave.
Charlotte, N.C. 28205
M-Th 6:30A-9:00P
Fri 6:30A-8:00P
Sat 7:30A-6:00P
Sun 9:00A-6:00P
