RTS & LIVING | MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1994

Music Review

Dillon Fence goes acoustic with Living Room Scene

By Tom Bavis

Dillon Fence’s new album starts ambitiously enough with the anthemic title track, “Living Room Scene.” Greg Humphrey’s voice tries to
keep up with the heights its owner has chosen for it as the bass, drums, and two guitars stomp out
a simple 4:4 time. It is a convincing example of the kind of song Dillon Fence has been making for
years. One could consider “Living Room Scene” wise or foolish, depending on one’s perspective: as a listener, I was impressed
enough to listen on, but left a bit disappointed when the next 45 minutes failed to deliver upon the promise
of the first song.

That is not to say Dillon Fence did not come close. “Queen of the In-Between” features some of the best
backing vocals of the Chapel Hill band’s career, as well as a fiery guitar solo that actually goes somewhere. “High
School Sap,” a lethargic tribute (or rip-off) of psychedelic era Beatles, is the most cleverly recorded song of their career.
Its backwards guitar solos, random sound bites, and gurgling vocal tracks rest comfortably atop a molasses groove. “High School Sap”
reasserts how unimportant lyrics are to the Dillon Fence experience—twenty listens into the record, I have yet to memorize a
word.

After a brilliantly off-rhythm introduction, “Day After Tomorrow” chases “Living Room Scene” as the catchiest rocker on the album. It
comes close. More than any other songs on the album, Greg Humphreys’ voice on “Day After Tomorrow” and the trotting
“Coffee Cup” sounds eerily like a young Rod Stewart. Gentle when his voice is low, Humphreys inevitably waxes gritty as
he struggles for notes his voice was never meant to hit.

More than most bands, Dillon Fence strives to wiggle its way around in-bred weaknesses and exploit strengths to create the
highest quality music. Yet there are some failed experiments on their third album. Unwisely placed after the adrenalin-pumping ending to
“Day After Tomorrow,” bassist Chris Goode’s cutesy and aimless “Where’s Your Kiss” falls flat on its face. The melancholy piano
ditty “Fayetteville,” ostensibly taped on a home tape recorder, comes off as quite contrived after a dozen rock songs—it’s as
if its co-writer Humphreys was saying, “See, I really have lots of varied talents!”

So although “Living Room Scene” is probably the best Dillon Fence album yet, it still shows that its creators can
improve. Since all the band members are in their twenties, they still have plenty of time.

By Cat Grimmell

This year many designers have declared a regenesis in their fashions. “The inspiration,” one designer stated, “is coming less from
the street and more from the ballroom. This season’s designs have taken their inspiration from sophisticated society women instead of
twentysomething girls.” This designer’s statement can be seen in a recreation of the Jackie O look in fashion. The return
of twinsets with only the top button clasped; small, white gloves; fitted, sleeveless dresses with fitted, cropped jackets; and the
ever-popular equestrian styles are examples of the resurfacing of Camelot. Most significantly, the hottest cut of skirts this season are
the A-line, the shape Jackie O made famous. I suspect we will see some pillbox hats soon.

As much as designers want to claim a rebirth of the body-conscious female style—approaching its classical pinnacle in the Kennedy
era—as a reaction to the past years of looser grunge styles, the hip is still undeniably related to what is
worn in youth-dominated clubs, restaurants, and bars. Though grunge has been declared officially dead, the style itself has not been
abandoned. Even on the runways grunge still rules, albeit self-consciously. The worship of the young hip on the street can
be seen in the body art and hairstyles of the models. The short crop is the epitome of model currentness
on the runway, andThe male models are unlikely to be able to strut without one essential ingredient: facial hair. Facial
hair has become the attitude behind men’s hip fashion in the past three years. To have it is hot. The
style once had to be sparse and particular, and the ultimate cool was a well-managed goatee; but times they are
a-chang- ing, and the new rage is anything goes as long as it is facial. Davidson, often called the epicenter
of unchic L.L. Beanness, has not been unaffected by this rage for facial hair. One need only look at Nat
May’s freshman Facebook picture and compare it to the noble Union leader one sees today (P.S. Nat, this is not
a flip; we love you!!) to comprehend that facial hair has arrived at Davidson. A trip to PiKA might also
be in order to understand that facial hair is part of Davidson’s avant-garde fashion culture, and despite beard burn, Davidson
women don’t seem to be complaining. Josh Gaffga, a connoisseur of fashion’s palette of facial hair, says his reason for
growing his goatee was to “hide my sexual repression.” This may not be necessary, as most women I asked were
genuinely more attracted to men with controlled facial hair, though some women, like Elizabeth Fleming, were “wholly uninspired either way
on the facial hair issue.” Still, the importance of this issue (I’ve got to somehow justify my potential as being
the writer of the fluffiest column at Davidson) rages on as women cannot determine if men with beards are better
kissers without facial hair.

All I see

Hairy continued on page 13

Exhibited artists talk with VAC crowd
By Jonathan Brooks

Kneeling, standing, and stretching in order to explore the work, students crowded around the marble and steel. New visitors, wide-eyed
in anticipation of what was to unfold before them, continued to file through the door. As students and faculty filled
the gallery, it soon became apparent that Glen Dasher and Dan Sutherland were going to entertain a large crowd.

On Thursday, October 13, the two artists currently showing in the galleries at the Visual Arts Center provided a walk-through,
during which the artists discussed their works. Glenn Dasher, a sculptor from Huntsville, Alabama, worked as a sculptural consultant for
the Visual Arts Center. Dasher first explained how some of his ideas originated for his work. He said that art,
like science, is a “voyage of discovery,” and the artist never completely knows how a piece will look upon completion.
Dasher admits that as a younger artist, he “thought it was nuts” when an artist might say that he would
wait for a “piece to speak to me.” Eventually, he, too, began leaving carved fragments around his studio, until the
work might make itself evident to him.

Combining both figurative and non-figurative aspects in his works, Dasher often carves fragments of the human figure and uses these
in conjunction with aluminum or steel abstraction. He believes the observer not so familiar with abstract sculpture may find an
entryway into the work through the figurative aspects of the sculpture. The fragments of the human figure also allow the
observer “to bring their own ideas to the work,” since the works call for creativity on the viewer’s part. The
fragmentary aspect of the work allows for the viewer to imagine the greater whole of which the figurative pieces are
a part. Dasher explained that this style works similarly to classical works. He finds classical sculpture intriguing in that a
“piece can allude to something far greater.” His work Tempest, for example, combines spiraling forms of aluminum with marble legs
gracefully posed in a ballerina stance.

According to Dasher, the

see Art continued on page 12
