THE DAVIDSONIAN  
DAN NECHEMIAS  
MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 1994

What has been your most significant contribution to SGA or the Davidson community?

“I’ve had the opportunity to serve on a number of committees in the last couple of years, since I’ve been here. I was on the SGA Phonathon Committee last year and I put a lot of effort into that. We raised a lot of money for the school. It was a good experience for me to get a working relationship with some of the people who make this school work. Also, I was on the Financial Aid Planning Committee, which completely revised the way the financial aid will be given because they set the cap at 13.5% and that was a year-and-a-half long that we spent changing the way that that would work. That also developed a new merit scholarship program. I got to work with Dean Wells and Terry Holland. That was a lot of fun to work with people like that and to feel like I was making a difference. Just this last semester, I joined CCRL. We’ve had a lot of impact as to the design of the future Union, what kinds of dining it will have, things like that. It’s really fun for me to be a part of the development and growth of the school. I’ve always made an effort that while I do this, I ask the people around me what they think so that it’s not just my opinion or what I think is best for the school. It’s hardly ever that. It’s usually what I think other people feel. I think that’s probably my biggest contribution—trying to always be representative of the student body on the committees I have served on.”

In your opinion what were the SGA’s most important accomplishments of 1993?

“I think the SGA’s most important accomplishments were particularly pressuring the school for the union which I guess we have to continue pressuring them. I think Alden’s goals, as far as the Statement of Purpose and more recently the Trustee requirements are critical in order for Davidson to shed its image as a regional school. It seems to me that Trustees, which includes people that have graduated from the school, requiring them to be Christian doesn’t seem very ‘90s to me, doesn’t seem very right, because it seems like anyone who graduated from this school should want to give something back and should be able to give something back. It seems to me that that hurts the college both in image and also hurts financially because it seems to me that you’re cutting out a number of people who might like to give money who aren’t Christian. I think the Statement of Purpose discourages students who aren’t Christian from coming here and I’m not sure that’s something the college wants to do.”

How would you address the issues of the policy requiring Trustees be Christian and the Statement of Purpose if you are elected?

“I’ll start with the Statement of Purpose. I think that’s the trickiest one because Davidson was founded by the Presbyterian church and it still maintains a linkage. I think it would be very foolish for the college to deny that linkage or any way to deny its religious heritage and its continued religiosity. It seems to me that we need to keep this school Christian in the sense that it encourages tolerance and it encourages higher knowledge. I guess the Statement of Purpose is most important to students that are looking at Davidson and we don’t want to be discouraging to non-Christians and we also don’t want to ignore our heritage.

“As for the Trustee requirement. I’ve always had a problem with that. Personally, as a non-Christian, I find it almost offensive actually. I come to this school, give a lot to this school while I am here, graduate, become successful and not be able to serve the school as a Trustee. It’s kind of offensive actually. I think that should be changed.”

What do you see as the primary role of the vice president?

“I think the primary role of the vice president is to help the president as much as possible. The vice president plays a large role in committee selection. I think committee selection is important, probably one of the most important functions of the SGA because those are the students who get stuck with 3, 4 faculty members, some administrative members of the college in making decisions that affect the students’ everyday life. ... A lot of the same people are doing more than one committee over and over again. I think we need more turnover. I think as a vice president, also, it’s a position of prestige, just like the president, and that gives the person that’s elected the right to go around and harass administrative members and whoever might be slighting the students in any way. Whenever students have a complaint, their first means of redress is the SGA. I think as one of the top members of the SGA, the vice president should be very active in addressing those complaints and making sure they are heard and acted upon.”of the SGA, it would be my responsibility to pursue students’ complaints. ... When little things like [the weight room] pop up, that’s the kind of -offensive-that-I-can}.. 

ALLISON SABEL

What has been your most significant contribution to the SGA or Davidson community?

“My most significant achievement at Davidson College would be with the student government as chancellor. As a freshman second semester, I became chancellor and continued through the first semester of my sophomore year. That involves, for people who don’t know, it’s sort of the secretary and treasurer combined into one position, so I learned a lot about the background of the SGA. I learned how we deal with finances, what we use our money for, what areas it can go to. I also learned how the whole government works, what areas we must work through, letter writing skills, and many official duties that you need to deal with, faculty, Trustees, Sophomore Math/Pre-Med Major.

What is your stand on the proposed changes of the Statement of Purpose and the policy requiring that Trustees be Christian? If elected, how would you pursue these issues?

“For both of them, I do not agree with the current ones but I do with the changes that have been proposed by the student government. The Statement of Purpose and for the Trustee policy, I feel that the Christianity needs to be either lessened or dropped entirely. I understand that this is a Christian school primarily. Many people were upset in our meetings that we were dropping Christianity entirely from our document. Even though I don’t feel that’s necessary, I don’t think it should be a strike against you if you’re not a Christian member. What I feel that I would like to do, is to continue with the SGA’s proposals. There’s not much we can do as of now until it goes in front of the Trustees and we get their opinions on how they feel on what we’ve done. If they return to us and say that they do not like it, that they will not accept our changes, what we’re going to have to do is repropose them, change what we’ve done, and go at it again. Basically, it’s just going to be a push, push, push, until we get what we want.”

What do you see as the primary role of the vice president?

“I feel that the vice president of the student government, what their primary role is, is dealing with the administrators, etc. The Bright Choice committees and various other aspects of the SGA. The vice president must organize all committees, that I do have, that I can use in order to keep everything within the organization. I also feel that the vice president needs to be there for the president and helping basically the president handle any situation that they need help with. You’re there to help them on anything. I’ve talked to Alice Spivey who is vice president and Alden [Smith] who was the year before last about what they’ve done, and it really does need to focus a lot on the organization part of the SGA.”

In your opinion, what were SGA’s most important accomplishments of 1993?

“The most important issues of the SGA for the year of 1993 was the Statement of Purpose and the Trustee policy that we are currently working on. For the Statement of Purpose--actually for surgeon and independents. Experience: Freshman Class Senator, SGA Chancellor. Current activities/commitments: Women’s lacrosse, Big Sisters Coordinator. Post-Davidson aspirations: Pediatric. Campaign Promises: I will increase the diversity at Davidson by more geographically distribution, minority students, and class choices. I also want to have a campus-wide party over one weekend that will include all fraternities, eating houses, chairpeople for all of the different committees. Nothing has been officially accomplished, but we’ve made a movement in the right direction. What we are doing with the Statement of Purpose, is we have proposed a version. It then went to a committee that was composed of faculty, etc. They redid it and it now has gone to the Trustees. They will look at it. Also for the Trustee policy, what we have done with that is dealing with that you must be an active member of a Christian church in order to be on the Trustee committee. What we’ve done with that is we’ve suggested a change that it be dropped, the part about Christianity and you should not have to be a Christian active member. Then the faculty got involved in our decision and decided to follow what we had done. So they also proposed something. I feel that this has made both issues have an impact on the Trustees so hopefully changes will occur in the year of 1994.”

What do you predict will be the biggest challenge in 1994?

“I personally feel the biggest challenge is going to be working with diversity. We’ve been trying to increase the minority diversity on campus through Alden’s activities and also through Anthony Foxx’s. What I do think we need to do is to increase the diversity in other aspects—geographical diversity, minority-wise also, and also the classes. We need to increase in all aspects of Davidson College in this area because we are lacking.”

Election Coverage: An Editorial Note

Elections are approaching. On Tuesday, students can vote for the SGA President and Vice President—Eric Rosenbach or B.J. Rudell; Dan Nechemias or Allison Sabel. The interviews are printed verbatim with only minor changes due to space restraints. Keep in mind that these are spoken interviews—not written.

The Davidsonian will maintain its non-endorsement policy in hopes that all students will make educated decisions. Please vote Tuesday.

-Interviews and photos by Leigh Rawdon