OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 7, 1994

Discrimination in the Workplace: Look at both sides.
Walt Barron

This past weekend I saw the movie Philadelphia, and it sparked many thoughts. For those of you who haven’t yet seen it, it is the story of a homosexual lawyer stricken with AIDS who is fired by his firm on the supposition of his homosexuality and affliction. It is clear that discrimination was the real cause for the lawyer’s dismissal from the firm. I do not wish to get into specifics about the movie, but I do want to talk about how this movie made me think about discrimination in the workplace.

It is obvious that whenever someone is discriminated against in a place of business, most people feel compassion for the one being discriminated against. I certainly have been mistreated. When I shop at a department store, I usually am neglected because of my age and the fact that I look about two years younger than I am. I definitely feel frustrated, but I don’t feel self-pity. Rather, I feel sorry for the merchant who is unwilling to recognize me. I walk in with the intention to buy a nice present for someone, but if I feel mistreated, I retaliate by not giving them my business and letting others know of my experience. The consumer is not harmed as much as the seller, for the consumer can go somewhere else to shop. The seller depends on buyers for his income.

The same scenario should hold true, in principle, for workers. If an employee feels as if he or she is mistreated because of race, sexual orientation, or age, then that person probably would not wish to work there anymore. If that person were fired because of one or more of the above, then he might feel frustrated, but he should also feel sorry for the business he just left, for it is losing a good worker. Sensible businesspeople know that unhealthy discrimination just doesn’t produce the best results. Hiring and firing should be based on the effects, positive or negative, that each employee has on the success or failure of the business. It doesn’t pay to fire good workers.

Businesses should have the liberty to hire and fire anyone they wish based on any reason. Privately-owned businesses should have the liberty to hire and fire anyone they wish based on any reason. Now, if an employee signed a contract to work a certain number of days and was fired before that time is up, the employer has an obligation to fulfill the contract by paying him what he would have made. However, the law should not put restrictions on discrimination because they are black or homosexual. Businesspeople are smart enough to figure out what combination of workers will produce the best result for their businesses. So why should the government feel the need to hold their hand and tell them what they should and shouldn’t do?

To illustrate this point I will use two extremes. First, try to imagine that you have built a business with your own resources and without anyone else’s help. You happen to be an extreme homophobe and you hire a man whom you find out later is homosexual. You didn’t know his orientation when you hired him, but based on your disagreement with the homosexual way of life, you wish for him not to work in your store. You fire him based on the fact that he is gay. Right now, most of you feel that it is cruel and unethical to fire the gay employee. Now, imagine that you are a businessperson in the same position, but instead of a certain worker being homosexual, he happens to be a member of the Ku Klux Klan. The employee’s behavior is not shown during work, but you can’t...

Nathan Seay
My body, my temple

Right now is one of my least favorite times of the year. No, it’s not the constant rain, gusting winds, and sub-zero temperatures. I have more on my mind than the weather. We are smack dab in the middle of Lent. I don’t want to lose any of you, so let me give you a little lesson in Catholic dogma. During the forty days before Easter, you’re supposed to deprive yourself of something you really like: chocolate, mistreated because of race, sexual orientation, or age, then that person probably would not wish to work there anymore. If that person were fired because of one or more of the above, then he might feel frustrated, but he should also feel sorry for the business he just left, for it is losing a good worker.

In the workplace, a sensible businessperson knows that unhealthy discrimination just doesn’t produce the best results. Hiring and firing should be based on the effects, positive or negative, that each employee has on the success or failure of the business. It doesn’t pay to fire good workers.

Mind you, I’m only talking about slothfulness in the physical sense. I am just as adamant now that my mind do no unnecessary thinking. I’m not caught up in any of my classes, and I still don’t have a resume. I still have to watch TV occasionally. No, the type of slothfulness I’m speaking of is purely physical.

I started my journey to physical perfection on Ash Wednesday (that’s the day after Mardi Gras) with a run. After I dusted off my running shoes, I tore off down the street, thinking only of that Fabio-like body I would soon have. I had forgotten why it was that brain because the next thing I knew I was lying in a ditch on the side of the road with huge scrapes all over my body while a dog was chewing on my shoe. I didn’t care. I knew that the sign was true.

I continued my quest for physical perfection the next day in the weight room. I went to Baker so that I could sculpt my body like Michelangelo did marble. The guy at the desk was suspicious of me because he’d never seen me before. “Are you sure you go to school here?” I eventually convinced him that I did, but only after leaving my credit card number with...him was I let in. Late, peanut butter. There were sleep, whatever. For some reason, some people I knew decided that not eating chocolate for forty days is about as painful as getting railroad spikes driven through your limbs. It all works out on the Divine Calculator. Trust me; I’m a reverend. So this year, I decided to make up for all the Lents I kind of skipped out on. A favorite joke in grade school: giving up homework for Lent. Ha, ha. Anyway, I really gave up something that I thought would be with me until the end of my life: slothfulness. (Bet you thought I was going to say beer, didn’t you?)

I had never particularly enjoyed physical activity before. I made it about one hundred yards down the road before I felt those hot knives start poking me in the diaphragm. Soon after, my legs went numb and I saw big splotches of light before my eyes. I couldn’t believe it. The lights were obviously a sign from Heaven that I was doing the right thing. I felt so spiritually pure for those thirty seconds. I think that I was in ecstasy longer than that, but it must have overloaded my poor brain.

The next thing I knew I was lying in a ditch while a dog was chewing on my shoe. I wanted to share with them my incredible accomplishment of actually being able to locate the weights. To my surprise, they didn’t look happy at all to see me there. The open mouths were an indication to me that my presence was not expected.

“What are you doing here?” was the first question out of everyone’s mouth.

“I’m treating my body like a temple now.” After the laughter died down, I was able to explain to them that I was serious.

See Zamorah on page 8

Imagine having someone like that working with you, and you want to fire him. When you try to fire him based on the fact that he is a racist and sexist, you are denied by the government because that is discriminatory. How do you feel now that you are not able to control who works in your place of business? I am willing to bet that many people did not really care about the needs of the businessperson when he fired the homosexual, as is the case in Philadelphia. Most people simply wanted to see the employer hurt and the employee helped. But, now that a different twist is added, more people will understand the frustration of the employer when the government controls who works in his own private business.

The fact is that the private sector does not have any responsibility to provide a job to any random person who wishes to work. Its purpose is to provide the public with a good source of consumption while at the same time trying to make as much money as possible. The private businessperson, not the government, should decide his combination of employees. In most cases, it doesn’t pay to use unhealthy discrimination. If an employer fires a diligent worker based on his color or sexuality, then the employer will be losing an integral part of the business. The hard worker shouldn’t have much trouble finding a new job if he is really well-qualified. For these reasons, I believe that the government should not become involved with supposed cases of discrimination in the workplace.

In defense of fraternities

Why do I feel the need to defend our fraternity system once a year? I assure you, this is not a canned column thrown together to meet a deadline. Rather, it is something that I feel needs to be said again. With the faculty characteristically breathing down our necks, waiting for us to slip, and with this pivotal selection of a new Dean of Students just ahead, now is the time for those of us who value the system to make ourselves heard. This is the moment when passivity and cowardice might bring an end to the Davidson world as we know it. Now, on with the simple explanation of why fraternities are good in general, and at Davidson.

In high school, we all had solid groups of friends. There was no brotherhood per se, but I would still do anything for any one of those guys and girls. However, we were only organized to the extent that we all went out together. We did bad things, like going out when we should have been studying or breaking a streetlight. Either way, everything that we now use as an excuse for abolishing fraternities was done by me and my friends back in Philly. We would not be friends with “just anyone”—we were elitist in that way. We would not take too many things seriously, and we certainly had more than a little bit of rowdiness in us. We were skeptical of authority. We had parties very similar to the ones we all now attend, except on private property (which is probably worse).

My point is that friendships then were essentially the same as they are now. The problem arose in that whenever we wanted to be charitable or positive, it was damn difficult to do it. Think of Bill and his friends raising money. We couldn’t put up flyers announcing that the money we were charging for that weekend’s keg would go to charity. We could not ask each other to pay dues to facilitate our altruistic ventures. We could not participate in the many community activities that seek help from organizations. We were simply people that liked each other. There was no common dwelling, no common financial pot from which to draw.

See Greek on page