THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1994

Dean Rusk Conference to explore foreign policy, conscience

By Eric Collings

The 1994 Dean Rusk NationsBank Conference, “Conscience and Foreign Policy,” will begin with a talk by Dr. Samuel Maloney, Sprunt Professor of Religion and Philosophy, on Thursday, February 17 at 4 p.m. in Chambers Multipurpose Room. Professor Maloney, in his 40th year at Davidson, has published "The Ethics of War and Conscience," "Morality and International Politics," and "From Just-War to Pacifism: Morality and War in the Twentieth Century."

The conference will examine perennial political issues which deserve closer scrutiny following the end of the Cold War. Facing Facts: Realism in American Thought and Culture, 1850-1920. Professor Ortmayer, who specializes in western European politics as well as American foreign policy, has been a member of the Davidson faculty since 1977. His publications include case studies examining Haiti and the US-Japanese FSX Fighter Agreement. Dr. Ortmayer’s predilection for current events quizzes and his voracious appetite for reading are well known. He was selected as the 1993 CASE North Carolina Professor of the Year.

On Friday, February 19 at 4 p.m. in the Chambers Gallery, Dr. Perry, Director of the Dean Rusk Program, will reflect upon his career as a foreign service officer in “Conscience and Foreign Policy: The View From Foggy Bottom.” During his twenty-five years of service, Ambassador Perry lived in Moscow, Paris, Prague, and Stockholm. He served on the Soviet Desk at the State Department from 1970-72, as Deputy Executive Director of the State Department in 1978-79, and completed his tour as Ambassador to Bulgaria from 1979-81. He traveled back to Bulgaria in 1991 as a member of an election observation team appointed by George Bush. Dr. Perry, the genesis for the conference’s topic, possesses a wealth of personal experience and keen insight which will provide an insider’s view of foreign policy decision-making.

President John Kuykendall will deliver a sermon entitled “The Geopolitics of the Land of Nod” at 11 a.m. on Sunday at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Dr. Kuykendall is a 1959 graduate of Davidson and also holds degrees from Union Theological Seminary, Yale Divinity School, and Princeton University. He will be followed on Sunday, February 20 at 8 p.m. in the Gallery by Dr. Alan Geyer, who will deliver the keynote address, “Ethics and Foreign Policy.”

Led by Clark Ross, professor of economics, and Robert David Kaylor, professor of religion, the afternoon session in the Gallery on Monday, February 21 at 2 p.m. will examine “The Economy, Conscience, and Foreign Policy.” Professor Ross, chairman of the Economics Department since 1990, has traveled extensively throughout West Africa as a member of US AID. In an attempt to take full advantage of the talents and expertise of Davidson’s faculty, additional events will feature Professors Louis Ortmayer, Clark Ross, and Robert David Kaylor. Dr. Jack Perry and President John Kuykendall will also contribute their insights.

Two other participants have ties to Davidson: David Shi is the former Frontis W. Johnston professor of history, and CBS News correspondent Robert Faw, Jr. was a member of the class of 1966. Dr. Alan Geyer will deliver the keynote address, “Ethics and Foreign Policy,” on Sunday, February 20 at 8 p.m. in the Gallery.

In hopes of providing a more orderly alternative to the traditional question and answer period following the presentations, the Dean Rusk Program will utilize selected student panelists. At the conclusion of each event, two or three students will join the speakers on stage, share their thoughts and opinions with the audience, and direct questions to the speakers.

At 8 p.m. Thursday, February 18 in the Gallery, David Shi, Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty at Furman University, and Louis Ortmayer, a Davidson political science professor, will consider “Interventionism: The Vietnam Syndrome, Past and Present.” Dean Shi, a 1973 Furman graduate, taught at Davidson for eighteen years before moving on to his alma mater in 1993. He is author of fifteen published articles and five books, including "Matthew Josephson, Bourgeois Bohemian," Yale University Press’ nomination for the 1981 Pulitzer Prize.Keynote speaker Dr. Alan Geyer, Professor of Political Ethics and Ecumenics at Wesley Theological Seminary in Washington, D.C. Geyer is concurrently Senior Scholar at the Churches’ Center for Theology and Public Policy. Geyer was a founding member of the Senegal plans for the development of the Gambia River Basin, and an assessment of a protected grain market for West Africa. Professor Kaylor has taught religion at Davidson since receiving his Ph.D. in New Testament Studies from Duke University in 1964. He has spent two sabbaticals in India during which he wrote "God Far, God Near," a book which presents the poetry of a lower-class Hindu. He has written three other books and presented numerous scholarly papers.

Alumnus Robert Faw, Jr. ‘66, a CBS News correspondent assigned to the Evening News with Dan Rather, will conclude the conference at 8 p.m. on Monday evening in the Gallery. As he speaks about “The Media and Foreign Policy,” Mr. Faw will draw upon his vast experience which includes coverage of the fall of Philippine strongman Ferdinand Marcos, the rise of Islamic fundamentalism in Egypt, and racism in America for which he received the second of his three national Emmy awards. Faw is also one of the few western newsmen to enter and report from North Korea. Faw will provide a fitting conclusion to an exciting four days of events. The Dean Rusk Program invites and encourages all students, faculty, and members of the community to benefit from this wealth of knowledge as our experts consider the conflicts, concerns, and conundrums of “Conscience and Foreign Policy.”

Photo by Katie Tobin
Jacques Andreani spoke at Davidson Wednesday.

French Ambassador shares his world vision with campus
By Phoebe Dean

Jacques Andreani, French Ambassador to the United States and career diplomat, brought his vision of “Current Franco-American Relations” to Davidson on Wednesday night. Andreani’s expertise in the field comes from his experience in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which he joined in 1953, and his subsequent experience as French Ambassador to Washington (1955-60), Egypt (1979-81), Italy (1984), and the United States (1989-94). Andreani traced the origins of the current Franco-American alliance to the post-World War II years when two modern security systems were established, the United Nations and NATO. Despite the fact that these organizations are currently changing in order to meet the challenges of the post-Cold War Era, Andreani argued that they will maintain their validity as unifying and shaping forces in European-American relations. The Ambassador also remarked on the unprecedented European integration taking place today and discussed its effect on world politics. Economic and social restructuring has resulted in a “complex political fermentation” which has made relations difficult for many European nations. Andreani pointed out, however, that the fundamental interests of England, France, and the United States remain the same.

The French government, according to Andreani, envisions NATO as “a centerpiece for European security” in the future. Contrary to this vision remains the fact that NATO and the European Union have been unable to halt the tragic events in the former Yugoslavia. The United Nations has authorized only three types of action in the Balkans—humanitarian aid, diplomatic efforts, and preparation for military intervention. France has contributed the most troops to the humanitarian aid effort. The combination of over 100 wounded French troops and the ineffectiveness of the UN measures have made the French frustrated, Andreani expressed. “What France calls for is an international strength of purpose,” the Ambassador stated. He expressed France’s desire to deliver an ultimatum to Serbs in Bosnia which would order the removal of artillery from Sarajevo. “NATO should apply force to defend this resolution,” Andreani continued, “for only through coordinated effort can positive results be achieved.” On Wednesday NATO issued this ultimatum to Serbs in Bosnia.

Andreani also spoke of the changing Franco-American economic alliance. As 68% of US overseas investment is currently in Europe, Andreani thinks that trade relations between the two countries will remain strong because of shared interests. He did convey France’s wish to be “listened to and considered more,” however, as the United States takes into account the European Union and shapes new economic policies. Ambassador Andreani thinks that in the future European-American relations will become more of a bilateral arrangement in which France and the United States can rest on “equal footing.” Shared values, despite a shifting market, are what give the US and France a common outlook.