2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Everything played Friday as part of Dean Terry's celebration. 
Photo by Amy Laukkanen

By Tom Mew

The band Everything performed Friday night to a festive Patterson Court crowd. While some Davidson students are already avid fans of the group, the band undoubtedly won new converts as a result of their performance. Everything is composed of six members and hails from Washington, D.C. Beginning full-time work only in 1992, the group has toured extensively, particularly in the Eastern Atlantic and Midwest areas. The band’s current tour finds them expanding their range to include venues as far west as Colorado. The band’s album SOL*ID, which was released on an independent label, has sold over five thousand copies. In addition, Everything has recently joined with Encore Distributors, which should increase both availability and sales of the album. Two songs from SOL*ID also appear on the compilation albums The Aware CD and CMJ’s Certain Damage. The band has also recorded a new full-length album which is scheduled for release sometime this summer. Based on the strong sales of the first album and their impressive live performances, Everything appears poised for even greater success and acclaim.

Thespians amuse, confound audience

By Shayna Chazin

Oh, yes, we have theatre here. The two one-acts presented this week by the Davidson Theatre Department, Kaleidoscope and Distances, displayed the wide foray of talent among Davidson students. First and foremost, the turnout was excellent. On Wednesday, almost every seat was full, and on Thursday, people had trouble getting in the door. And the big turnout was well-deserved.

The first one-act, Kaleidoscope, written by Ray Bradbury and directed by sophomore Christa Abbott, is a highly visual production of seven astronauts whose rocketship explodes in space. They are all floating in their own spheres (literally and abstractly), trying to rediscover what it is that has brought them to where they are and how they have all spent their lives. It is a fairly difficult script, with very little movement and change, so keeping the audience involved seemed to be a challenge. But Abbott pulled through—the lights speckled throughout the black box to make it seem as if you, too, were with the astronauts, and the characters held flashlights under their faces to give a surreal, shadowed effect. The play worked by its subtlety and mellow dramatics; by the end, it made you ponder your own depth and value in a quasi-vacuum of blackness. Whoa.

The mood and tone changed quickly after that: The Studio Ensemble wrote and directed a wide array of sketches and vignettes that delighted and entertained. Among the highlights were scenes such as “God on E-Mail”; Danny Grosman and Kimberly Kreiling play God and Goddette (kind of like Smurfette, but much more sophisticated and minus the tacky white bow in the hair) on the internet. Different people from all walks of life asked them questions like, “Who will be Miss America?” (answer, Miss South Dakota), and, “What’s Ethel Ruth’s secret ingredient for her apple jelly?” (answer, vodka). Other sketches, though they were all worth noting, included scenes entitled “Ed’s Bar,” “First Date,” and the gem of them all, “Flowers in Heat.” In this one, a wildflower is deeply in love with a rose but is unable to talk to her because they don’t speak the same language. The wildflowers (Josh Gaffga and Danny Grossman) employ the efforts of an over-worked bee (Cyndy Marion) intrying the young rose to pollinate with him. The mother rose (Marianna Whitehurst), with her parasol in hand, rejects the idea. But the two young flowers are united at the end by the help of a gardener who needs them both for a bouquet. My words just can’t say it as well as they did. Make sure you see this week’s one-acts, Zoo Story and Chamber Music, first-hand.

Cobain: Dead
By Josh Larned

Kurt Cobain: 1967-1984

On Friday, April 8, Kurt Cobain, singer and guitarist for the group Nirvana, was found dead, apparently from a self-inflicted shotgun wound. From the beginning of his career, Cobain set out to shock his listeners in his own provoking manner. His wailing voice, his self-destructive habits on stage, his intense and cryptic lyrics, and his loud, carefree guitar-playing all revealed a distinctive “I don’t give a damn” personality that made him a hero to some and an annoyance to others. He was a true punk. One couldn't help but notice him as he flailed about on MTV and thrust Nirvana to overnight fame.

However, there was more to Cobain’s character than the canonization he will almost certainly receive as the angry rock star of an “angst-ridden generation.” He didn’t hate everything; he simply hated those who hated blindly. His songs attacked sexists, rapists, racists, homophobes, and religious fanatics alike. He challenged his listeners to continually reevaluate themselves, as they strained to decipher the warbled words within his songs.

Foremost, Cobain seemed to have personal fun striking sounds out of his guitar and screaming into the ears of his startled audience. He beckoned listeners to “Come As You Are,” in a true rallying cry of unadulterated individualism. For many, he became a symbol of the splendor and pain of their own adolescence. Clearly, Cobain was more troubled than even his listeners imagined. However, before he is transformed into one of the countless tragic heroes of rock’s annals, his true person should not be forgotten. Cobain was a man with the openest of minds and a heart of pure, human flesh. So long, Kurt.

Kurt Cobain at 27

Give Up NOW SELLING...
- Pink Floyd Vinyl
- Primal Scream Give Out But Don't
- debut of Hole Live Through This
100s of New and Used CDs at Discount Prices!
Lakeshore Market Place: 896-7882

Creative? Submit your short stories for publication in The Davidsonian.

CROSSWORD

ACROSS
1 Spur
5 Freshwater fish
7
14 Company at times
15 Lecher
16 Tournament
17 Lift
18 Whirlpool
19 Extreme annoyance
22 Alleviate
23 Browned bread
26 Meager
29 Flog
31 Garfunkel
33 TV emcees
34 Scares away
35 Not cooked
36 Lubricants
37 Pretend
38 Sharpen
39 Employ
40 Academic robes
41 Waltz

©1994 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

ANSWERS
BCIEIEIE FEI BRIE] & HOO OE BEEFEIEIEICIE L] Ny} ODES OOOOH HHO BOO BHD BOOO8 BOO ODE Y : HOOD S| LIST OW OOO HROOUTE Wils|viojr) EINICIE) DOD OOBOSDEE) QOOE BROOD Eno HOOK] BEHOE HOOD 1 ODO OO Gl vio} 9) 4 coatrace of 37 Soda jerk 44 Flowerless. ‘s Ss 51 Great Lake sweets ‘milieu plants 52 Garden tool 5 Task 38 Car models 46 Passage Snow 6 Melody 40 Broad smile 47 Swiftness 54 Make a choice 7 Whatever is 41 Cooked 49 Otherwise 55 Time period left sufficiently 50 Irritate 56 Ladle