SPORTS MONDAY, APRIL 25, 1994 17

Crawdads: another team to follow
By Jason Byassee

Rats. Basketball is over. It has been a couple of weeks since Duke’s season ended on Chris Collins’ 80-foot jumper. The Charlotte Hornets have just been eliminated from pro basketball’s playoffs. Most of you will agree that the only non-Hornet worth watching in the NBA is currently wearing a pin-striped White Sox uniform. Oh well.

So what is there to do sports-wise, to pass the time between now and the NFL pre-season? Playing basketball at Baker doesn’t seem to be an option. It is hard enough to get into a game in the fall, but with both men’s and women’s teams playing pick-up ball on spring afternoons, it is now close to impossible. We need more options.

I think I found the answer. It is the Hickory Crawdads. You know, minor league baseball. Ballparks that hold 4,000 people. Hot dogs that cost only a buck. Little kids having birthday parties and chasing foul balls. Lots of really drunk rednecks. All the things that make an enjoyable evening, plus a little baseball to boot.

Now, I am not going to say that the Crawdads play really great baseball. They do have a pretty decent record and a third baseman named Pete Rose, Jr., but the last time I was there, there were three errors in half an inning. One was a dropped infield fly ball. Ouch! Sounds more like an IMAC softball game, huh?

There were, of course, redeeming qualities. There was also a really cool mascot (imagine a life-size crawdad), a cameo appearance by the Hornets' cheerleaders, and a brand new, relatively crowded park. There were guys selling popcorn and Crackerjacks and the Crawdads’ very own fight song during the seventh inning stretch. This town does A-level baseball right.

Baseball has something other sports don’t — the fact that anybody can experience it. The most inexpensive bleacher seat in a major league park is $7 at Fenway, still $2.75 more than a Crawdads ticket. Baseball’s farm system allows the sport to branch out to the Hickories all over America, each with a personality all its own.

There’s even a touch of American idealism in minor league baseball. Although most of the players on a single-A roster will never play in “The Show,” they’re getting a chance to play a few years of baseball and to make money doing it. Some hard work and talent will move you through; a bad break will get you cut. That’s the game, and it's good.

Men's tennis finishes second in conference
By Patrick Jopling

The men’s tennis team won seven out of nine matches Sunday to jump from fourth to second in the Southern Conference. Coach Jeff Frank, whose team has now finished as runner-up four years in a row, called Sunday’s performance “an amazing effort.”

Holt Vaughan and Dan Parham ended the tournament for Davidson with a conference title. They won the Number Two doubles flight by defeating Peter Lawrence and Kurt Swoboda, 6-3, 6-7, 6-4 in an intense, two-and-a-half hour battle. Vaughan said, “The freshmen stepped it up. The victory made all the hard work worthwhile.” Parham was equally excited about the victory, for he “was glad to end on a positive note.”

In the other doubles matches, Bill Mitchem and Chris Parker soundly defeated the Number Three squad from East Tennessee State, 6-2, 6-4 to finish third in the flight. At Number One doubles, Russell Briggs and Ryan Harper finished seventh in the flight by default over an injured Western Carolina team.

On Sunday, the singles highlights were numerous. Parker finished third in the Number 3 flight by avenging a regular season loss to Alex Zeiter of UT-Chattanooga, 7-6, 6-3. Parham also inflicted revenge by defeating Erik deVries of Furman, 6-4, 6-4, to finish third in the Number 5 flight. deVries, the #1 seed, did not lose a regular season conference match. Dan Grinnan took third in the Number 4 flight, defeating Zack Sharpe of Appalachian State, 6-4, 7-5.

In the Number One Singles flight, Davidson’s top player and the Southern Conference Player of the Year, Russell Briggs, played his final match. He faced Gwinyai Tongoona of UT-Chattanooga, a member of the Zimbabwe Davis Cup team. Tongoona, the #3 seed, was the only conference opponent to defeat Briggs in the regular season, and, unfortunately for Davidson, he did it again on Sunday, 6-4, 6-3. Briggs was gunning for his 91st singles victory as a Wildcat, but his brash, intimidating style

Freshman Dan Parham is groovy. Photo by Amy LaukkanenHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The play was not enough to knock off the quicker Tongoona. While disappointed, Russell displayed class in defeat, for according to him, “The guy deserved to win. He just outplayed me.” The final standings were Georgia Southern 71, Davidson and Furman.

Baseball greats Boretti and Freitas will be missed
By Matt Pitzer

When it comes to baseball, seniors Brett Boretti and Jazz Freitas are what you might consider opposites. In the field, they are as far from each other as possible: Boretti starts at catcher, while Freitas roams center field. At the plate, all Boretti wants to do is hit the ball as hard as he can. Freitas, however, tries to reach base any way he can, enabling him to use his speed to “wreck havoc” on the basepaths.

But in terms of success, the two are similar. Earlier this season, both reached that magical 200-hit barrier previously broken by just two Davidson players, and neither knew about it until later. Boretti, from Beverly, Mass., currently ranks fourth on the team in batting average, second in hits, and third in both home runs and RBI. “He’s a guy players like to see up with guys on base,” coach Dick Cooke said. “He’s proven he can be a dominant hitter in college.”

The starting catcher since midway through his freshman year claims to have no special philosophy about hitting. He just “thinks about hitting the ball as hard as I can.” Despite the success he’s had this year and despite becoming the third Davidson player to reach 200 hits, this season has statistically been a letdown from last year when he hit .386 with 13 home runs and 48 RBI, and for the team which was 14-27 entering last weekend’s play. “I think our record stinks,” he said, “I think we should be better than that. We’ve got enough talent to play with anyone. Sometimes we haven’t been ready to play every day.”

Boretti adds an important dimension to the team aside from his offense and role as team captain. Catcher is regarded as the most vital position in the game. Boretti has lived up to that billing so well that Cooke has never had to call a pitch from the bench. The low-key, but very intense Boretti doesn’t believe he has such a large part of the pitching; instead, he understands his job to suggest a pitch to the hurler. “I think that if you like baseball, you were born on it and grew up with it,” Boretti said. “It’s so much fun, especially as a catcher when you are in the middle of every play. I consider myself lucky.”

See RBI on page 19

Tennis says goodbye to Hess
By Tracy French

Cyndi Hess says she doesn’t watch much professional tennis on television. “It’s kind of boring now without Monica Seles, and with Steffi [Graf] winning everything, and I don’t really watch that much television.” Hess doesn’t have time to watch TV. She is too busy studying and playing number one singles and number two doubles for the Davidson women’s tennis team.

Hess, a senior religion major from Lancaster, Pennsylvania, started playing tennis at the age of ten. After her high school tennis coach suggested she look at Davidson, Hess decided to visit. Davidson appealed to her. “It is a small, Southern, liberal arts college, and I liked what I knew about the tennis program.”

Hess has played the number one singles position since her freshman year at Davidson. “I like playing one because you get a lot of tough matches that way.” When asked if she felt pressure to win at the number one position, she responded, “No, my position means as much as every other position, so there is no added pressure.” She has handled the position well, however, with an overall winning match record every year.

Next year, Hess will work in the business department at the Van Der Meer tennis center in Hilton Head, South Carolina. She then plans to go on to graduate school in religion. Last week, however, she was concentrating on her last tennis tournament as a Davidson tennis player: the Southern Conference Championships. “I’m excited—especially about the doubles. Kimberly [Nance] and I have had a great year, and this is my last tournament at Davidson.”

At this year's Southern Con-

See Hess on page 19