THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 1995 13

Photo by Rob Kosicki

Kayaga Female African dance ensemble opens Africa Week

By James Berry

The Africa Week festivities opened on Saturday, January 29, with a performance by the Kayaga of Africa dance troupe. The
five members offered more than expected when, between each dance, the director, Namu Lwanga, shared traditional stories, drum lessons (a
few of the audience's luckier members got some hands-on experience), and short but interesting lectures on everything from arranged marriages
to the performers’ bright, ceremonial clothing. Although the five are originally from Africa, mainly Uganda, they are now based in
Washington, D.C. and tour to various places around the globe. The dances and stories come from all over east and
central Africa but are mostly Ugandan. The troupe grows from five to seven members at times, but the younger performers
are still attending school and therefore do not tour consistently.

The performance itself was mesmerizing. It opened with a greeting dance and song; traditional shakers were worn around the legs
for percussion. The harmonies and interplay between the members were incredible and delivered so casually that it made the performance
all the more impressive. As an added feature, a few of the dances were accompanied by prerecorded music from such
places as Cameroon and South Africa. The performers were soon joined on stage by two basketball team members, Narcisse Ewodo
and Ray Minlend, when they heard their native Kosamba out of Cameroon. Zik Joseph, coordinator of Africa Week, also made
an appearance. They soon had the audience clapping a steady beat.

The Africa Week activities will last until Friday, February 3, and will include lectures, exhibits, and performances; everything is free.
Africa Week is sponsored by the Dean Rusk program.

Bavis details the recent return of The Beatles’ music to popularity

Ringo continued from page 11

recording should be dispatched to speed metal players everywhere, as a lesson in how to rock. Though John takes the
lead vocal for over half the songs, he does not outperform the others. As if to showcase the range of
Paul McCartney’s vocal ability, longtime Beatles producer and BBC compiler George Martin followed Paul’s silky, tender rendition of “A Taste
of Honey” with his vocal-shredding workout of “Long Tall Sally.” George Harrison and Ringo Starr try hard, and fully impress
in the process. Most listeners won’t mind them interrupting the flow of superior Lennon-McCartney performances. Though busy pounding a rapid-fire
backbeat, Ringo belts out “I Wanna Be Your Man” better than he did in the original studio recording from “With
the Beatles.” The same holds for George; his BBC take of “Roll Over Beethoven” comes across better than the 1963
studio version.

With most of these songs, the majority of which are covers, these live radio performances benefit from juiced-up tempos, convincing
vocals, and the kind of youthful vigor these songs were meant to unearth. Their remake of the cheesy Coasters song
“Young Blood,” like many other Fifties covers, saves itself because they don’t take it too seriously. At the end of
a flawless performance of “A Hard Day’s Night,” George humors announcer Brian Matthew by playing the closing riff again. Matthew
explains, “We did that to prove that we weren’t playingThe record then, ‘cause otherwise there would be no point in
[the Beatles] being here!” The occasional injections of banter between the show hosts and the Beatles suit the album perfectly.
Paul, John, Ringo, and George live up to the reputation they earned as witty, unpretentious men. While introducing the song
“Baby It’s You,” John and the others successfully prod the much older host to imitate both actor James Mason and
Mickey Mouse. Beatles fans everywhere, even only mildly interested ones, are glad they got Live at the BBC. Even though
they were pulled out of the archives after a three-decade sleep, the BBC performances of the world’s most famous band
have earned their position in a daunting discography. A welcome blast from an amazing past, Live at the BBC can
scarcely be called a pity purchase. Lennon lives.

ON THE SCENE

Monday, January 30
Sango Malo. 8-10 p.m. in the Chambers Gallery. An African film based in Cameroon. Part of the African Film Series.
Faculty Piano Recital. 8-9:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall. James Swisher, Davidson’s Pianist-in-Residence, performs selections from Schoenberg, Chopin, and Beethoven.

Tuesday, January 31
Coffee House. 8-11:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Africa Week Study Break. 10-11 p.m. in the Game Room. Indoor African Games.
Twenty-One-Year-Old Night. 10:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Wednesday, February 1
African Food and Music. 5-7 p.m. in Vail Commons.
Letters to Alou. 8-9:30 p.m. in the Chambers Gallery. An African film based in West Africa.
Forrest Gump. 9:30-11:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Thursday, February 2
Ojo Bamidele, Speaker. 8-9:30 p.m. in the Chambers Gallery. Professor of political science and African studies at Fairleigh Dickinson University.
Jumpin Java Cafe. 9:30-12:30 a.m. in the Union Outpost. Coffee, snacks, music, fun!

Friday, February 3
Cravin Mellon w/ Curnutte and Maher. 8-11 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Saturday, February 4
Les Moore, Singer/Guitarist. 12-3 p.m. at the Union Outpost.
Comedy Murder Mystery. 4:30-8 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Forrest Gump. 8-10 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Sunday, February 5
Mary Lee Cooke, Soprano. 8-9:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall. Part of the Artist Series.
Glory. 8-10 p.m. in the 900 Room. Part of the Black Film Series.

Other cool stuff this week...
Senior Exhibitions. All week in Edward M. Smith Gallery at the VAC Art Galleries. Open weekdays 10 a.m.-4 p.m. and
weekends 2-5 p.m.
Ansel Adams Exhibition. “The Man Who Captured the Earth’s Beauty.” All week in William H. Van Every, Jr. Gallery at
the VAC Art Galleries. Open weekdays 10 a.m.-4 p.m. and weekends 2-5 p.m.
African Arts and Crafts Exhibition. Monday through Thursday 9 a.m.-4:30 p.m. in Chambers Gallery and the College Union.

As you can see, we'll be trying some new things to make this section more useful. If you like what
you see, or even if you don’t, let us know at -2148.

THE RAFTERS RESTAURANT

DAVIDSON STUDENTS! DO YOUR MIDWINTERS DINING WITH US! COME IN AND CHECK OUT THE DELICIOUS NEW DAILY SPECIALS AT THE
RAFTERS RESTAURANT. UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT, ALL MEALS AT RAFTERS ARE HOMEMADE. WE ALSO HAVE TASTY HOMEMADE DESSERTS FOR THE SWEET
TOOTH IN EVERYONE.

NEW HOURS OF OPERATION:
SERVING LUNCH TUESDAY-FRIDAY FROM 11:00 A.M.-2:00 P.M.
SERVING DINNER TUESDAY-SATURDAY FROM 5:30 P.M.-9:00 P.M.
SUNDAY BRUNCH 11:30-2:30.

663-7322
761 NORTH MAIN STREET
MOORESVILLE
