18 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1995

Davidson Be Mice Kus

DANVILLE, Ky. — A 15-play, 90-yard touchdown drive late in the fourth quarter proved too little too late, as Davidson fell to 1-8 with a 21-6 loss at the hands of the Centre Colonels on Saturday.

FOOTBALL

After an opening-week win over Sewanee, the struggling Wildcats have now dropped eight straight. Heading into their last collegiate contest this Saturday at 1:30 p.m. versus Bridgewater at Richardson Field, senior captains James Cassidy and Bo Bartholomew, both with 11 tackles and a sack, and Will Robinson (7 tackles and a sack) anchored the defense in one of its best outings of the season. With the exception of two quick, back-breaking touchdowns in the first seven minutes of the second half, the defense pitched a shutout. Along with their companions, they effectively contained touted Colonel tailback Kris Garrett, who has rushed for a thousand yards in all four of his college seasons.

Garrett picked up 127 yards on the ground, actually a sub-par effort for the powerful runner, and his only score came on a 14-yard screen pass from quarterback Jonathan Pruitt. The quality effort went for naught though, as the Wildcat offense could muster but 175 yards, more than half of which came on that last drive. An athletic Clif Henry scrambled 18 yards with 25 ticks left, averting a third shutout loss for Davidson. Centre defensive lineman Matt Chambers returned a Dan Jonas fumble 10 yards on Davidson’s first offensive play of the game, accounting for Centre’s other tally and the only scoring in the first 30 minutes. Hoping to establish their offense from the get-go in the second stanza, Davidson instead gave up two swift strikes, essentially ending any hopes of victory.

Rob Kosicki and Phil Julian on the attack in yesterday's Southern Conference Men’s Soccer victory.

Soccer from page 16

And the entire team clicked together in a way that made reaching the goal so much easier. Amy Kanoff had an excellent weekend with two goals and two assists, setting up many offensive chances off free kicks and set plays. Lucia Plosser, who was doubtful all week with an injury, came out and helped lead an offensive effort that overwhelmed the Eagles and Paladins. In the back, Lowrance was the clear leader of the defense, scram-Bling and knocking away almost every loose ball in the Davidson end of the field, despite feeling the effects of a separated shoulder she suffered a couple of weeks ago. In the net, Allison Noznesky, who led the league in goals-against-average, played solidly again, making big saves when necessary. But in the midst of all the hugs, some tears, and the camera-toting parents and friends after the game, the talk once again turned back to beating Furman to stake an honest claim as the best team in the conference.

“I wanted to play them today,” Hundley said. “If we were going to claim we won this title, we knew we had to beat the regular-season champion. ... I couldn’t have asked us to play and to demonstrate how good we can play any better than we did this weekend.”

Men’s Soccer from page 16

Clarke buried into the back of the net. However, Northington usually takes penalty kicks for Davidson, but Clarke said he was “100 percent sure” he was going to score and asked to take this one. “He (Northington) can take all the rest of them this year, but I wanted that one,” Clarke said. Northington had a different reason for letting Clarke take what proved to be the game-winning shot. “[Furman’s] coach [Doug Allison] was at the game Friday [a first-round 6-1 victory over the Citadel in which Northington scored a goal on a penalty kick], and he knew which way I would go. He [Pascale] did in fact dive that way,” Northington said.

After the 6-1 win over the Citadel on Friday, Davidson upended Georgia Southern 2-0 in the semi-finals on Saturday evening at Richardson Field. The semi-final game was marked by fouls, and according to Slagle did not win the ‘Cats any “style points.”

“This is a tournament,” Deegan said after the win over Georgia Southern. “It may not have been the prettiest game, but you have to do what it takes to win. We played as a team today and got the result. That’s all that matters.”

Slagle used different line-ups throughout the tournament, starting Julien, who spent most of the season at striker, at outside midfielder in the first-round game and giving him significant minutes there in the semi-final. John Eckman, a senior midfielder, and Isaac Stewart, a junior sweeper, were held out of the win over the Citadel due to nagging ankle injuries, and the Wildcats were also without Ian O’Brien, a senior midfielder, who was injured against South Carolina in the second to last game of the season. In addition, Davidson used a three-forward line-up for much of the final to put more pressure on the Furman back line, playing Clarke, Julien, and Keith Kleeman, a junior striker/midfielder together up front.

Kleeman, who had played midfield the entire season, was moved to forward for the regular season game against Appalachian State to help fill a hole left by Julien’s injury, which the sophomore has since recovered from. “When I first moved up, I didn’t like it, but it worked in the first two games; I got four goals. Then I didn’t do much for a while, but I got two assists in the Citadel game, and it looks like it was the right move,” Kleeman said.

Slagle said they wanted three people up front because Furman plays four people on their back line, and three strikers would get Davidson more one-on-one opportunities. “We had moved Keith up earlier in the year, and this week in practice Coach Colenstein suggested that we work with three forwards. I was a little nervous because we hadn’t got to practice it much since Tuesday because of the bad weather, but we used it Friday against Citadel after we got up, but that was nothing like what we did today. Today we played our normal game with it,” Slagle said.

The win avenged a 2-1 regular season overtime loss to Furman at Richardson Field, and gave the Wildcats their first men’s soccer conference tournament championship since the team which reached the Final Four in 1992. “This was the first time we really came together,” Troiano said. “You could tell how close we were, and that we had come together as a team. That has been our biggest obstacle, but things are just starting to click. We have had some people that were injured and now they’re healthy and we’re happy about it.”