THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1995 : 7

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
MANDY CURTIS
JEFF KENT

Opinions Editor
DAVID SANTSCHI

Copy Editors
ROBERT RAMSAY
TERESA WHITE

Arts & Living Editors
JACOB ABRAHAM
WILLIAM ROBERT

Associate Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
KATHERINE HASH
RUSS TARVER

Sports Editor
MATT PITZER

Advertising Managers
WALT BARRON
MARY CLARE JALONICK

News Editor
CAROLINE BYNUM

Photography Editor
ROB KOSICKI

Assistant News Editor
MATTHEW EIRICH

Circulation Manager
CRAIG MURPHY

“Founded in 1914”
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Social sex change

Thursday night. Connor’s ladies lock-in. Black velour bodysuits. Dancing to Ace of Base’s “I Saw the Sign.” Beer. A hundred inebriated women herded into the corral to be auctioned off at the stroke of eleven. More beer. Midwinters and not a date in sight. Oh, Davidson.

We all know the complaints about the male-dominated social scene and gender relations—gender roles, gender images, gender biases, gender segregation, gender whatever. Whether we agree or disagree that relationships between men and women are less than amazing isn’t the point. But we can’t ignore the fact that the issue continues to come up in the paper, in conversations, and in the classroom. So what to do?

Would Barbara Harvey’s crusade for sororities change the situation? Does Rebekah Peeples’ letter about Phi Delt or Brian Cole’s response help? Unfortunately, the situation remains riddled with complexities. Figuring out exactly what the problem is, if there is one at all, where it lies, with whom, why, and how to fix it continues to plague our arena of discourse.

We’ve tossed around a bunch of ideas: coed freshman dorms, coed eating houses, a new Union, all-campus parties, etc. But nothing seems to change the facts that our social activities revolve around the seven fraternities, for better or for worse, and that the biggest weekends of the year (i.e. Midwinters) are more than less based on what the fraternity boys are doing.

Perhaps coed freshman dorms by hall would do the most to make positive changes toward better relations between the sexes. Nothing brings people closer than proximity, and living together can only foster healthier, more stable, and longer-lasting friendships. The all-campus party works as well. When everyone participates, regardless of individual affiliation, and puts forth the effort needed to bring all factions of the college community together, we really might get along.

Sororities, however, do not spell the answer to the debatable, cryptic, and intangible problem between men and women. Many women agree that the eating houses serve as an appealing and unique feature, giving women social options while not subjecting them to a demeaning and ridiculous rush experience found at so many other colleges and universities. Sororities couldn’t possibly support the unity, integration, and inclusiveness that we’re supposedly searching for.

Maybe the cattle imagery is too harsh. Maybe we’re all just wasting time as we talk and write about the seemingly endless battle of the sexes. Maybe sororities would be a positive instrument for change at Davidson. But maybe, and probably, not.

Student staff change

Encouragingly enough, changes have taken place in some areas recently. Eric Rosenbach has relinquished the SGA scepter he held with such calm authority and passed it on to Smokin’ Bill Gullan. Allison Sabel has said good-bye to the executive branch of the SGA after a surprising loss, and Warren Buford has moved into her vacated chair. The bearded Nat May, whose Union Board presided with graceful restraint, has been replaced with Morgan Perry, the victor of another unpredictable election.

And in the offices of The Davidsonian, a quiet but frenetic takeover has taken place. A coup, you might say. This turnover did not involve interpersonal competition or the pitting of Abel against his journalistic Cain. It involved the conquering of fear — the confident ascension of the new executive editors despite the realization that they have no idea what they are doing.

The fear stems from more than the size of this job — keeping a college campus informed about everything of pertinence going on without editorial bias, and sometimes reporting on significant past events with a degree of appropriate editorial bias. The fear is also a result of the work of the past editorial staff, who so eloquently performed the task to which we aspire.

But change is good; it keeps things fresh and appealing. In accordance with this belief, The Davidsonian has adopted a few noticeable changes in format, some bringing back old traditions and others introducing improved trends. Some of the changes are aesthetic and some are textual, but we trust all will add to the appeal and readability of the new “people-friendly” Davidsonian.

TACKLING THE IMPORTANT ISSUES

LETTERS

Nation of Islam double standard

To the editors,

The invitation of a mem-The visit of a member of the Nation of Islam to the Davidson College campus has caused much controversy. The controversy involves race, a difficult issue, which I will most respectfully ask you to look at from a different angle. Suppose that a member of the hypothetical group “Whites R Us,” an organization espousing white self-love, separatism, and other values similar to those of the Nation of Islam, were invited to give a motivational seminar to interested white males and encourage them to take a more active part in college policy. And suppose that campus reactions were similar to those that followed the visit of the Nation of Islam.

After carefully reading Dean Shandley’s letter to the editor in the January 23, 1995 issue of The Davidsonian, consider a substitution of white and WSC for black and BSC, respectively. Similarly, insert Whites R Us in place of the Nation of Islam. Would we have encountered the following excerpt in Dean Shandley’s letter to the editor?

“In the December 5, 1994, issue of The Davidsonian it was reported that the White Student Coalition hosted a closed meeting in the WSC house that included a speaker from Whites R Us. Several students attempted to get into the meeting and were denied access. However, as was announced to the campus in a previous article in The Davidsonian, this was not a campus-wide or WSC event, but an invitation-only meeting for white males that happened to use the house. As John Smith’s article stated, it was a retreat that was intended to be a motivational/goal-setting event for white men. Its purpose was to stimulate increased contributions to the Davidson community by white males. The retreat format was not unlike what a lot of student groups do on campus all the time. As for the Whites R Us speaker, he was invited not because of his religious affiliation but because of his ability to motivate. Actually, in the words of one student who was there, ‘we need to give the students who attended more respect for being able to make up their own minds on whether or not what is said about Whites R Us is something they can agree with or not...’”

Neither Dean Shandley nor anyone else would ever have written something so outrageous. If he had, he would have been sued. Our community could not tolerate that breed of bigotry. Along the same lines, could the organizers of the Nation of Islam meeting agree that a Whites R Us motivational session could also be held, without college or fraternity sponsorship, in the basement of one of the fraternity houses? I don’t think so. There is, I suspect, a double standard. And perhaps that is material for a constructive campus forum or conversation.

Sincerely,
Andrew C. Sicora ’98

Ex-editors examine editorial

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

As former editors of “The South’s Foremost College Weekly,” we were greatly distressed at the Editorial Board’s January 23, 1995 editorial. We feel that the board’s decision to tackle events in the national arena was a poor one. During our editorship, and for the seventy-eight years prior, the newspaper has prided itself for its focus on events in, around, or about Davidson College and the surrounding Davidson community. The Davidsonian should be about events directly affecting Davidson, not Washington. Your foray into national politics leads the newspaper into a partisan direction—we feel that this is unwise. The newspaper is meant to be one for all the students at Davidson, not those of one particular political ideology—regardless of whether it be liberal or conservative. Opinions such as these are better left to individual columnists on the following three pages and should not be expressed as views of the entire Editorial Board. You set a dangerous precedent when you tackle issues of such a decisively partisan nature. It is our hope that in the future, The Davidsonian’s Editorial Board will adhere to topics of direct relevance to the Davidson community and that the board will keep its political opinions to itself.

Sincerely,
Walter S. Price
Editor Emeritus ’93
Thomas C. Koonce
Editor Emeritus ’93