4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1995

Let them eat five times a week

Answering student demands, the Commons will offer all upperclassmen the five meal plan

By Billy Roberts
Staff Writer

Previous to the spring 1996 semester, the five meal plan at The Commons has been available only to residents of
Martin Court and off-campus students. For the upcoming semester, all upperclass students may opt for the five meal plan. Freshmen,
however, are still required to register for either the 19- or 14-meal plans.

Eight months ago, when Richard Terry became the Director of Auxiliary Services, he felt he “needed a better sense of
what was happening,” in terms of the Auxiliary Services as a whole, before changes were instituted. Because of this administrative
change and the time needed to learn all he needed to know, no new options were made available for the
Fall 1995 semester meal plan.

Terry states that one reason for the installation of the five meal plan as an option to all upperclass students
is that there was no worthwhile reason to restrict the option to a much more limited population. Terry admits that
this change was not on his agenda when he assumed the office in March, but it was brought up as
a student concern by the Student Advisory Committee to the Director of Auxiliary Services. Both Richard Terry and the SAC
feel that student input was the important factor in bringing about this change.

Senior co-chair of the committee Jill Dyer says, “We just pushed them into checking it out.”

“The SAC put all the emphasis on making the Five Meal Plan available to more students, and consequently, if the
new plan does not work out, it will be all their fault as well,” Terry says.

The economic motive for making the Five Meal Plan available to all upperclassmen is the theory that the more people,
the better. The profit will be better, and so will the quality of the food and more diverse the choice
of what there is to eat. Terry also hopes that access to the five meal plan by more students will
satisfy their needs for good and nutritious food, and at the same time bring more people together for a better
sense of community.

Auxiliary Services is willing to give this new option a chance, but the bottom line is that if the all
upperclass access to the five meal plan is not justified by the financial returns at the end of the meal
plan registration period, then the spring semester will be the only semester in which this meal plan option is offered.
In fact, over the next few months all of the meal plans will be reviewed to see whether there is
the possibility of a more diverse selection for meal plans.Options. Other items up for review are bonus bucks, alternatives to
bonus bucks, declining balance, and the potential use of the Cat Card in more places on- and off-campus. Terry has
said that, as in the case of the five-meal plan, student input will be instrumental in deciding what to do
in reviewing possible changes in Auxiliary Services.

Candidates sound off in debate
By MATTHEW EIRICH
News Editor

In a civilized discussion of the issues facing the town of Davidson, the candidates for the town Board and Commissioners
and for Mayor gathered in the 900 Room last Monday to express their opinions on a variety of topics from
housing to drug use to special sidewalks. The debate was divided into two parts. In the first, candidates were asked
one question from a pre-determined list of 17, which they had been given ahead of time. Each candidate was allowed
no more than three minutes to answer this question. The second part allowed the audience to ask questions specifically to
one candidate or generally to them all. There was no time limit placed on the candidates’ answers. A reception, sponsored
by the SGA, took place afterward. The SGA organized the debate, helped to write the questions, and President Bill Gullan
moderated while Vice-President Warren Buford kept time.

Many of the questions and responses dealt with town-college relations. For instance, many candidates cited the incipient arrival of Cosmic
Coffee as a perfect example of where students’ and town residents’ needs coincided. Other issues such as drug and alcohol
use in the community, drunk driving, and the behavior of off-campus students were raised in the formal question period and
the discussion that followed. For instance, a few candidates agreed it was a good idea for the SGA and the
town to collaborate on a plan to combat drunk driving. One even suggested that the two governments provide sober rides
to Back Street Cafe and the Corner Pub. Many candidates mentioned that the Land Plan just approved by the town
will establish low-cost housing for students who would like to live off-campus.

In the first part of the program, one candidate was asked, “Do you think that creating ‘user-friendly’ pedestrian sidewalks and
bicycling paths throughout all of the Town of Davidson is a high priority? If so, how would you go about
funding them?” The response was shorter than the question: “No, they are not a priority, and I would not fund
them.”

Branding from page 1
top of the stairs. Arrington called this requirement “ludicrous,” because the policy already requires a risk manager to remain in
the basement. In response, Council members suggested that entering the basement during an open party be made an Honor Code
violation for underage students. For the past three months, the Council has struggled to work within the new alcohol policy,
while attempting to address the problems the policy presents. The policy established a standard which the Council claims is unreasonable
and, at times, unnecessary. After a night of witnessing the frustration in the alcohol policy, Shames concluded, “We must revise
the policy.” Shames hopes to bring an appeal to President Kuykendall who has the power to overturn the policy.

We're looking for an Assistant News Editor to train for next semester. Call Matt at 2148.
