THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, MARCH 27, 1995

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
MANDY CURTIS
JEFF KENT

Opinions Editor
DAVID SANTSCHI

Copy Editors
ROBERT RAMSAY
TERESA WHITE

Arts & Living Editors
JACOB ABRAHAM
WILLIAM ROBERT

Associate Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
KATHERINE HASH
RUSS TARVER

Sports Editor
MATT PITZER

Advertising Managers
WALT BARRON
MARY CLARE JALONICK
CAROLINE BYNUM

Photography Editor
ROB KOSICKI

Assistant News Editor
MATTHEW EIRICH

Circulation Manager
CRAIG MURPHY

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Untapped resources
We see them every day at the front of the classroom, elusive pillars of knowledge that in some ways we
respect maybe even more than our own parents. But are we really listening to them? Should we? Maybe Dr. Lewis
knows about more than just Elizabethan drama. Maybe Dr. Williamson specializes in more than just genetics. Maybe a chat with
Dr. Epes would extend beyond the scope of the history of world knowledge. The question is, do students really want
to listen? Does anyone really take the time to find out? Well, we should. And so should they.

How many professors know that in addition to being Vice President of the SGA, sophomore Warren Buford also plays rugby
and lifeguards? In addition to being Phi Beta Kappa and an honors candidate in English, senior Phoebe Dean rappelled from
Chambers as “Mrs. Claus” at the campus Christmas party last year; how many faculty members were there? How many even
know that we have a campus Christmas party?

Students and faculty at Davidson seem to know each other as just that: students and faculty. We are all individuals
who share a common experience — Davidson. We are all here because we proved that we can cut it academically.
Why don’t we take advantage of the first-rate minds and thoughtful opinions that the researchers at U.S. News and World
Report consider to be in the top ten of all liberal arts colleges in the country?

And we don’t just mean taking advantage of the speed at which Dr. Molinek can solve a complex system of
matrices. We mean taking advantage of them as individuals, as experienced adults who have lived through everything that we have,
and then some.

Davidson students tend to sharply separate their academic and social worlds. This schism does not allow us to take advantage
of everything that we are offered for our tuition. We are paying these professors to teach us. And they know
a lot more than just what they teach from 9 to 5, Monday through Friday.

Maybe the faculty doesn’t understand why we are here, or what things are like for college-age students of 1995. We
worry about AIDS, date rape, sexism, and racism. When the average faculty member attended college, life was a lot different.
So, can we really listen to them when they express their views on our social lives? Are they out of
touch? Perhaps. But not as much as we might like to think. So, maybe we shouldn’t dismiss their views so
quickly. Don’t get defensive. They may not have a totally clear perception of Davidson’s social life, but instead of writing
them off as overly intellectual and generally over the hill, we should pause for just one microsecond and listen to
what they have to say.

For example, if the faculty wanted Patterson Court abolished, then they would be disregarding the interests of a majority of
the student body. Probably, most of them do not want to see it eliminated — only improved. Unfortunately, Davidson’s climate
does not provide an easy way to socialize away from the Court. Let’s face it — Main Street offers little
more than gnomes. So, what do we do? Where do we go to interact as students and faculty — as
people?

We need to relate more as individuals who interact constantly. Having professors spend weekend nights in residence halls is a
big step in the right direction. However, these situations are often awkward because students and faculty don’t have any experience
dealing with each other socially. And the only way to eliminate this awkwardness is to interact more as individuals. Some
professors already make commendable efforts to realize this goal, as do some students. Although they stand out, they comprise a
minority. We challenge others to join them.

STAY CALM
WE'VE worked SOMEthing out With “the Gar" WEARER (%, A= THE DAVIDSON CAMPUS uWoT ZONE" WHEN) IN A.GO EXPERIMENT Gon
AwRy, SHIPMENT OF BERMUDA SHO WITH A PARTICULARLY DEADLY TROPICAL VIRUS. BECOMES A GOVERNMENT. THE CREW'S SPRING RTS IS INFECTED

LETTERS
Let’s clear some things up again

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices
are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building.Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries
do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates
are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

I'd like to start by thanking Corey Bean for replying to my article and giving the other side of the
debate. I am sorry, though, that Bean did not address my two main points: evolution should not be taught as
fact, and there are no missing links. I do not question that evolution is the best theory science can come
up with; what I do question is that evolution is taught as fact by our textbooks as well as by
many science teachers. I am not claiming that Davidson’s professors teach the theory as fact. On the contrary, I have
heard that many tell their class they disagree with the book.

In his attempt to address my question of missing links by saying that there are whales that seem to have
vestiges of hind feet, Bean misses the whole point of my argument and simply reiterates several things I said in
my second article. So again, I am going to clear some things up.

Bean’s first argument responds to my proposal that evolution goes against the Second Law of Thermodynamics, because according to evolution,
less complex organisms evolved into more complex ones. Obviously, the Second Law of Thermodynamics does not mean that everything must
always become less ordered. To use a similar comparison, the law of gravity states, in layman’s terms, that a brick
will fall to the earth if given the chance. Or it will at least remain on top of another brick
and not float away. Someone could, however, seemingly defy this law by throwing that brick up into the air. In
the same way, organisms have a plan and code (DNA) which forces them to become more complex, appearing as “islands
of order in a sea of entropy.” But the organisms are following a plan, just like blueprints, and are not
left to themselves. They do not randomly get more complex. However, there is no blueprint for all life. Evolution requires
that life, when left to itself, randomly and by chance become more complex. That is where evolution conflicts with thermodynamics.

Bean next addresses the question of evolution defying the Law of Biogenesis. What bothers me about his argument is its
contradiction to Bean’s two requirements for a “good [scientific] theory” (a: it must accurately describe many observations with very few
arbitrary elements, and b: make definite predictions about future results). The Theory of Evolution contradicts both of these requirements of
a “good theory.” Its description of “observations” which uses a great deal of arbitrary and theorized “proof” totally contradicts the
Law of Biogenesis which is grounded in tangible and reproducible observations. Secondly, its predictions about the future, that life can
be generated from non-life, contradict that “life and only life, generate life,” which Bean states as a current fact. Also,
evolution cannot be duplicated in a lab or proven mathematically, which I understand are generally required in science. So according
to the criteria Bean gives, evolution is not a “good theory.”

To answer my question about missing links, Bean gives one example of a whale which has body parts that resemble
limbs. One must consider that many organs which appear to be vestiges of old parts no longer needed, like the
human coccyx which is cited as an example that was used in some way for other purposes. The coccyx, for
example, is essential in supporting abdominal and spinal muscles. But even if Bean’s whales did go from land to water,
that does not address my point. I have never claimed that species cannot adapt, but that there are no links
between species. Bean’s example is no different from pointing to all the different kinds of dogs. I am not disputing
that there are different kinds of dogs which came from an original source, but where is the proof linking dogs
to any other animal?

Finally, on mutations, Bean very confidently said that I was mistaken in stating that there had not been any evidence
of successful mutations. He says that there was one, billions of years ago, when plants which were hurt by oxygen
mutated into plants which used it. I would be very interested in seeing his proof of these mutations. What Bean
really meant was that the proof comes from scientific theory, using evolution as the basis, that oxygen-breathing plants evolved from
ones which were hurt by it. Any rational person will see the obvious problem in using the theory which is
in question as the basis for providing evidence which is being used to support that theory.

Sincerely,
Eric Sapp ’98
