THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1995 | 15

By Matt Pitzer
Sports Editor

Appropriately enough for a sport that has been dominated recently by events not directly related to the actual game itself,
the Davidson baseball team has a heckuva time getting its season started.

ACCORDING TO SCHOON

The first attempt at a season opener, on Feb. 11 against Campbell, was postponed because of weather, as was Wednesday’s
scheduled game against UNCC, Thursday’s makeup of the Campbell game, and Friday’s makeup of the UNCC game. At least the
delay was due to weather, not players rising up and declaring they should be paid more and have to work
less.

And so baseball fans here are forced to go a few more days without their favorite game. Fans’ anger everywhere
at major league baseball has justifiably intensified, evidenced by President Clinton’s desire to get involved and solve the now six-month-long
strike. Players seemed even more peeved by the owners’ desire to fill teams with scab replacement players. And owners are
miffed that the players won’t settle. But despite all this madness, there has been little, if any, movement on either
side to really get down to work and solve this thing.

So, in their search of the game, fans on this campus turned to Davidson’s season opener — only to have
to wait again.

“In the grand scheme of things,” Davidson baseball coach Dick Cooke said, “it’s way too early to start baseball. But
with the academic schedule, we’re forced to start this early.”

While the Wildcats have fought snow and rain and cold weather in their preparations for the season, major league owners
and players have fought each other with little resolution in sight. Many people have theorized about the damage to the
game, about how fans will be reluctant to come back and about how the game will never be the same
again. But that’s not true. And everybody who’s a baseball fan knows it.

Cats place in Charleston regatta

After opening its spring season with a strong showing at home two weekends ago, the Davidson sailing team ran into
some tough competition this weekend in a regatta in Charleston and finished in eighth place.

Up against seven teams ranked in the top 20 in the nation in sailing, the Wildcats had a significantly less
glamorous placing than last weekend. At the Davidson Spring Open Regatta two weekends ago, Davidson beat up on several other
teams. But this weekend, College of Charleston’s first team won the regatta and its second team placed third. Kings Point
Merchant Marine team was second. St. Mary’s of Maryland was fourth, followed by Dartmouth. All of those teams are in
the top 20, as is Texas A&M (9th), Wisconsin (12th), and Yale (13th).

Sailing for the Wildcats in the A Division were two teams: Graham Earnest crewed one boat and Dave Saudek and
Brice Ivy manned the other. In the B Division, Thu Thieu and Andrew Cole teamed up.

Staff report

CRISP COPIES

When you need copies fast, come to Mail Boxes Etc. Your Mooresville MBE Center has state-of-the-art photocopying equipment. Whether you
need one copy or 5000, you can make them at MBE. You can also have 24-hour access to the copy
machine. So, if you need to, you can copy round-the-clock. That's convenience!

Port Village Shopping Center
Hwy 150 West of I-77
Mooresville, NC 28115
(704) 663-8833; Fax: (704) 663-7193
Mon-Fri 9-6; Sat 10-2

10% OFF CUSTOM PACKING SERVICE OR PACKING

One Coupon Per Customer

Offer Expires 5-31-95“Forget,” Cooke says. “And they want to. Not to overstate its importance, but the game is a pretty
important part of life. It'll take a couple of years, but I think the game will rebound fine.”

Yes, the people will come again. But instead of coming with hearts and minds filled with hopes and dreams of
how great baseball could be, they will come with apprehensions that players are still making way too much money. They
will come with attitudes based on the knowledge that owners would rather cancel the World Series than seek a realistic
solution to the problem.

“Not to trivialize this whole thing,” Cooke says, “but the worst thing about this is that Cal Ripken could lose
his (consecutive games played) streak. And baseball is all about history. More than any other sport, baseball thrives on numbers,
stats, and history. That’s what the fans love. One of the greatest streaks might come to an end because of
things the public can’t understand.”

Using replacement players is, of course, a stupid idea. Major league baseball should not be played by anyone except major
league players. And fans realize that. They won’t flock to spring training to watch players who were never good enough
to make it on their own. The beauty of spring training has always rested in something much beyond the actual
game itself. It lies in the ability to watch a game from good, cheap seats in beautiful weather, knowing that
back at home, the weather is cold.

Sail, sail, sail away...

HELP WANTED!! Men/Women earn up to $480 weekly assembling circuit boards/electronic components at home. Experience unnecessary, will train. Immediate openings
in your local area. Call 1-602-680-4647. Ext. 102c

CRUISE JOBS ~ Students needed! Earn up to $2,000 plus per month working for Cruise Ships or Land-Tour Companies. World
travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Seasonal and full-time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call: Cruise Employment
Services (206) 634-0468 ext. c53631

Baseball fields remain quiet, dismal, and completely anti-baseball. The beauty of spring training rests in the availability of the players.
It lies in the fact that you can see the stars practice in the morning, play an exhibition in the
afternoon, and walk freely among their admirers following their five-inning stint.

Chances of spring training, which was supposed to start this past week, taking place in all its glory are about
as good as Ken Griffey Jr. actually chasing down a fly ball all the way across the country as he
does in that inane Nike commercial. And so we wait. And wait. And wait. And nobody knows how much longer
we’ll have to wait. Maybe another week. Or maybe another six months. And based on this week’s weather, even the
college players might not take the field for a while.

“It wouldn’t stun me to leave to go home tonight to hear it’s been settled and that they’ll start spring
training in three days,” Cooke says.

An irony of all this is that one day we might actually learn the details of the different plans and
figure out why a grown man cannot live on a million dollars a year. But we, the average fan, will
probably never figure it out. We won’t understand. And we’ll probably be better off not understanding, because that would only
anger us more.

Perhaps if we took Cooke's view of the whole thing, we could find whatever inner peace we might be looking
for. Says he: “I think everybody’s stupid.”

_Rob Kosicki

Looking For A Summer Job??? SO ARE WE!!! Carolina Pool Management needs Lifeguards, Swim Coaches, and Swim Instructors. Summer Positions
available in the Charlotte area. For More Information: 704-362-0748
