THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1995

Lighting to brighten nightlife

Commons, Belk, Richardson, laundry walkways are top priority

By Patricia Evans
Staff writer

On February 13, Director of Public Safety and Police Ray Thrower, Supervisor of Electrical Maintenance Mack Puckett, and Director of
Physical Plant Bob Collins, along with SGA Senators Jonathan Orr, BJ Rudell, and Lucian Dervan, spent two hours walking around
the Davidson campus in search of dark, potentially dangerous areas with little or no lighting. This review has occurred in
response to numerous student complaints about poor lighting on campus. The group looked at areas that had previously needed immediate
action.

The group decided that first priority was the Vail Commons side of Richardson Dormitory, along with the entire quadrangle marked
by Belk, the laundry, the Commons, and Richardson. Second priority is lighting the path from Duke Dormitory to the library.
The third area of immediate concern is the lighting in front of Chambers.

Other areas of concern, in order of priority, are lighting on the Belk side of Chambers, the long sidewalk from
Chambers to Main Street passing DCPC, the area in front of the Union, Martin Chemistry Building, between Phi and Eu
Halls, and the new parking lot beside behind the Senior Apartments. The group also considered moving the light at the
library’s loading dock to a more useful spot.

At this point in the lighting process, Puckett is putting together a master list of all areas and possible lighting
options and costs; the list should be complete by the week of February 27.

In compiling the list, he has had to examine building tops and sidewalks. The next step is to submit a
work order to Bob Collins and the Physical Plant who will take over installation and maintenance of the new lights.
Dervan stresses that the lights will all go up one at a time in order of immediate concern.

Thrower has high hopes for the lighting: “I’m excited. Each year we upgrade campus lighting. This year is just another
year when we’re looking at students’ concerns and acting on those concerns with the appropriate funding.”

Students take advantage of the warm weather and study outside.

Sig Ep fraternity receives awards from Leadership Academy

By Catherine Anderson
Staff writer

Sigma Phi Epsilon recently won five major awards at the 1995 Southeast Carlson Leadership Academy Conference.

The fraternity was awarded the “Excelsior Cup” Award for Manpower and Scholarship for the fall 1993-spring 1994 school year. Billed
as the “standard in excellence” for Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternities, the award recognizes those chapters showing significant improvement in the
areas of manpower and academics.

The fraternity was also awarded the Harry D. Kurtz Membership Recruitment Award for the spring of 1994, recognizing Sig Ep
as being in the top quartile for recruiting after they initiated 33 new members last year.

The chapter was awarded the Scholarship Cup for having the top GPA out of all the fraternities on campus for
the fall 1993-spring 1994 school year, the Manpower Excellence Award for the spring of 1994 for being in the top
quartile of manpower on campus, and finally the Dean’s List Award, an award not unfamiliar to the chapter, recognizing their
overall GPA of over 2.88 for several semesters in a row.

“[Davidson’s] chapter is tremendously successful in two operations: academics and recruitment. They’re a fantastic chapter,” said Jim Lowry, the regional
director of Sigma Phi Epsilon. Lowry is responsible for all Sig Ep chapters in the southeast.

“Because of our chapter’s performance at the academy,” said Sig Ep Service Coordinator Josh Gaffga, “the name of Davidson College
has been branded into the minds of the schools of the Southeast.”

Gullan to give bone marrow

By Mary Clare Jalonick
News Editor

At a school famous for its bone marrow drive, it seems only right that the SGA president give his to
a needy patient.

Bill Gullan, recently elected SGA President, will give his bone marrow to a 42-year-old male shortly after spring break.

Gullan was perfectly matched to this man, a rare occurrence, after a long series of tests. Next week he will
have a physical to make sure that he is able to undergo the operation, which will remove marrow from his
hip.

“The only real risk is the anesthesia,” says Gullan. All that he knows at this point is that the operation
must be on a Tuesday and the man is in urgent need of a transplant.

Gullan has talked to other Davidson students who have undergone the procedure on both sides, and seems excited about the
opportunity.

However, he will not be seen as a hero. “I don’t feel comfortable accepting praise for this. The only thing
that makes me feel good is that I was lucky to be matched with someone in need and that he
was lucky to be matched with a willing participant,” says Gullan.

zydeco (n) Music. Popular music of southern Louisiana that combines French dance melodies, elements of Caribbean music, and the blues,
played by small groups featuring the guitar, the accordion, and a washboard. For reference see The New King of the
Bayou: Terrance Simien
