THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1995 5

Photography and Life on the Road to Mexico

Photojournalist Maeve Hickey presents images of life on the 2,000 mile U.S.-Mexico border

By Billy Roberts
Staff Writer

Last Tuesday Maeve Hickey came to Davidson to talk about the culture and the people that surround the area of the border between the United States and Mexico. Dr. Nancy Fairley introduced Hickey as an impressive multimedia artist with a B.F.A. from Rhode Island University. Hickey also lays claim to international exposure with collections on display in France, Ireland, the United States, and Mexico.

The land around the U.S.-Mexico border has interested this Ireland native from her early years when her father would listen to his Mariachi music. Despite parental admonitions to the contrary, Hickey enrolled in the University of Arizona as an undergraduate because of its proximity to Mexico. Hickey haltingly described her first experience south of the border as a trip that affected her deeply. This deep affectation had its roots in the hospitality and happy culture she encountered just on the other side of the chain link fence. This first visit, which took place over fifteen years ago, she painfully contrasted with her recent visits made for the purpose of photographing this culture.

Hickey is currently co-authoring a book with Lawrence Taylor called Life On the Road to Mexico. Being a multimedia artist who concentrates on photography, Hickey will bring to this work in progress all of the pictorial representations of the Border area. For Hickey, the Old Nogales Highway, which runs between Tucson (60 miles north of the border) and Magdalena de Kino, Mexico (60 miles south of the border), is the focus of the border culture that she strives to capture on film in Life On the Road to Mexico.

“A place of contradictions,” is how Maeve Hickey terms the border lands she studies, “It is at one time barren and beautiful; peaceful and dangerous.” Figures like Donny Caswell and his Indentured Vaqueros, Josecito-The Littlest Pilgrim, Tasha Leon-The Happiest Character (a third generation bird cage maker) and the omnipresent Power Ranger Pinatas filled the slide show Hickey presented in the second half of her talk. Hickey took hundreds of photos and realized only upon their development how pervasive children were in her photography. Equally as pervasive as the children is the poverty. Hickey laments, “By accident of birth, they are born just yards from the land of opportunity; McDonald's is visible.”

Sargent again asks students to move cars

By MATTHEW EIRICH
News Editor

Game Management Director Lee Sargent addressed the SGA Tuesday night, seeking their help and advice with the parking problems which accompany certain basketball games and to inform the group about changes in student seating for basketball games. Sargent said he anticipates parking problems at six “key games” during the basketball season, two each in December, January, and February. Sargent said he wanted to let students know well in advance that he needs them to move their cars on those days to Satellite parking behind the sophomore dorms. Several senators expressed worry that Satellite was a dangerous place to be at night and that it is not fair to ask students to endanger themselves. Sargent said that if necessary, the Athletic department would hire a police officer to stay in Satellite during game nights.

On any given night, Sargent claims that 85 to 125 student and staff cars are in the parking lot. Some senators disputed this claim, saying the number was much smaller. Sargent said he asks the Baker staff to move their cars. Students will no longer occupy the same red seats on one side of the arena. Instead, students will be in the red seats behind the opposing team’s bench andthe bleacher section directly behind those. Sargent gave two reasons for the change. He said that having students directly behind the public address system microphone produced some embarrassing incidents last year. But he also said the Athletic department wanted to create more of a home court advantage by concentrating student noise and enthusiasm in one section directly behind the visitor’s bench. Sargent said students in fact have four more red seats than before. Groups of twenty-four students will also alternate sitting behind the opponent’s basket, to make noise and be a distraction. Alec McCallister, who is in charge of promotions for Davidson athletics, accompanied Sargent to discuss forming a Student Advisory Committee for promotional items. McCallister said a group of five local restaurants have formed “We Fuel the Wildcat’s Fire” which will give out $1500 in cash over the course of the season. Spirit parties may be held at fraternity and eating houses after games which only students who went to the game will be able to attend. Students will have the opportunity to compete for a 1995 Mustang at eight home games by trying to make half-court shots.

Bills from page 1 appreciate the efforts of the Controller’s Office to work with the Patterson Court officers, but states, “They’re willing to work with us now which is good, but my opinion is that this could have been avoided if they had kept everyone involved from the start.” Bagley states that the Controller’s office is going to try to communicate effectively to the house officers “so that no one gets taken by surprise.” One change that may be made is putting every agreement and estimate of charges in writing to avoid future confusion. Bagley is hopeful that the houses that owe the College can pay off their debts over the next two years.

Wanted: enthusiastic, entertaining, intelligent, charming, witty, and creative people to join the staff.

[The children] don’t have safe drinking water.” Most indicative of the squalid conditions on the border are the “Tunnel Rats.” Over 100 kids live in a drainage ditch that extends across the border. These kids are exposed to rats, bats, disease, and highly unsanitary living conditions with no adult supervision. “Mi Nuevo Casa” is a program that attempts to ameliorate the Tunnel Rat dilemma. Mi Nuevo Casa is a day care center that provides food and daily shelter for the children, but only if they promise not to go back into the tunnel. The only problem is that Mi Nuevo Casa is only open during the day. The children are left to their own devices for lodging during the night. Hickey says that even though the United States government likes to refer to the post-N.A.F.T.A. border as invisible, it is hard to ignore the 2000 miles of barbed wire and recycled chain link fence and motion detectors. Although Hickey loves and respects Mexico and the border area of the U.S., and even gave birth to her daughter in rural Sonora, a Mexican state, she “will always be an anglo, a foreigner.” And although she has deep perceptions and feelings and good photography of life in and around Mexico, she will never fully understand it, she says.

find a job
find a life
find a clue
find sex — oops, self
find money
find your cap and gown

New Age HAIR DESIGNERS
A full service salon for men and women
Come in for any of our many services:
cuts * perms * hair-coloring * manicures * pedicures
Select from a line of Paul Mitchell, Matrix, Logic, Nexxus, Sebastian, Abba, and Goldwell hairstyling products.
Southlake Shopping Center
Next to Harris Teeter
Cornelius, NC
892-3067
*Christmas Special*
10% off all cuts and styles with this coupon.