ALENDA LUCE SU BT ORTA Che Davidsonian LIBERTAS

VOLUME LXXXVI MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1995 NUMBER 18.

Trustees discuss new science center
Rosenbach, Gullan express SGA concerns
By Jay JENNINGS
Staff writer

The Board of Trustees held their traditional February meeting to discuss the budget for 1995-96 and the new Life Science Center last week. The trustees usually discuss the budget at the February meeting, but the new Life Science Center added something new for them to consider. A group of faculty and staff, called the Life Science Center Planning Committee, has worked with Jenkins-Peer Architects of Charlotte to formulate a plan to link a free-standing life science building with an atrium to Dana Science building. The trustees announced a fund-raising team and had the architects display the design. This new structure will bring Biology and Psychology offices, classrooms, and labs together in the new Life Science Center. This will also combine the facilities for lab animals that currently are maintained separately by each department. Eddie Gordon, a junior biology major, believes that this expansion is “long overdue” because of the great demand for biology resources at Davidson. Former SGA President Eric Rosenbach also talked to the trustees about the religious

See Meeting on page 2

Members of the Board of Trustees examine the proposed plans

Triples again in ’95?
By JENNIFER KERNS
Staff writer

According to the Admissions Office, more than 3,000 students have applied to Davidson this year. Of these applicants, Davidson intends to accept around 1,000, expecting 430 to enter the Class of 1999. The Enrollment Committee, consisting of RLO Director Richard Terry, Registrar Polly Griffin, Executive Assistant to the President John Kelton, and Controller Ed Kania, dictates the target figure for acceptances. Admissions responds to the committee by focusing on specific areas and only recruiting a set amount of students. The committee examines the resources of housing, classroom space, and class availability to determine a target number. Although the class of 1998’s 30-person increase from the target number of 430 does not seem drastic, the results are long-reaching.

See More on page 4

For that special someone...
Rob Kosicki

VALENTINES
Will you be mine?
By BETU LINDSEY
Staff writer

As yet another Valentine’s Day approaches, many students across the Davidson campus without sweethearts express a cynical attitude toward the holiday. Yet for others, this Valentine’s Day is an extra-special one, for that special person with whom they celebrate is also the one with whom they plan to spend the rest of their life. Senior Creigh Wheeler has been engaged to Davidson alum Jamie Brown for 14 months now. After spending a semester abroad in Australia, Creigh arrived in the airport at 6:30 a.m. on a Saturday morning only to find her boyfriend holding an engagement ring. Says Wheeler, “I have to admit the idea of such a big commitment was a bit overwhelming at first, but he has graduated and been out ofHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

school for two years now. He is certainly ready, and as for the commitment, I feel like I am ready to handle it.” Creigh and Jamie first met when Creigh was a prospective visiting Davidson. They then began dating during the fall of her freshman year. Says Wheeler, “I certainly did not expect dating someone seriously during my freshman year, nor did I expect to get married so early. I am a firm believer, though, that when you find someone with whom you want to spend the rest of your life, you just cannot let it slip by you.” Creigh and Jamie plan a June 1995 wedding and then plan to move to either Oregon or Montana. There they plan to pursue further schooling and ultimately careers in wildlife management. Mark Ruby took the big plunge last December when he proposed to his longtime girlfriend, 1994 Davidson graduate Anna Atkinson. Says Ruby, “To be honest, I’ve been itching to do it for a long while. Her birthday was December 15, and it seemed like a good time. The year before Anna’s mother had found out what I was See Cupid on page 3 Recycling campaign demanding support By Mary Clare Jalonick News Editor Concerned students want change. A petition drawn up by Maria Whitehead has called for the institutionalization of recycling on the Davidson Campus, which would strengthen the college's recycling program. In addition, inside THIS WEEK First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC 28036 - Warren Buford and Bob Bailey have redefined the goals of the Campus Services and Facilities Committee and will make the rejuvenation of campus recycling one of their top priorities. Along with empty aluminum cans, plastic bottles (without caps), and white office paper, low-grade paper products and cardboard can currently be recycled. The college cannot recycle glass, paper clips, paper cups, or envelopes with plastic windows. As of now, the program is mostly run by students. Physical Plant collects the bagged recyclables and takes them to the shed. Then once a week, students go to the shed, located across the tracks near Admissions, and separate the recyclables so they can be picked up. Many problems exist within the recycling program. There is not much money allocated for recycling, and as a result the students who volunteer are burdened with much of the sorting. This creates a problem on holidays and during exam times, for the students are the backbone of the program. Whitehead, in conjunction with the On-campus Service Committee, the Environmental Action Committee, and the Recycling Committee, wrote a petition that was signed by at least 950 students See Waste on page 3 Gullan’s goals Newly-elected SGA President Bill Gullan sheds light on the direction he will take the student body. NEWS 3 Choose your own adventure. Holt Vaughan gives advice on picking a major. OPINIONS 8 Steppin’. Members of the Black Greek Association perform as part of Solidarity Week and Black History Month. ARTS & LIVING 10 Wrestling right Bo Bartholomew leads team to victory over Longwood. SPORTS 15