THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1995

~The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
MANDY CURTIS
JOHN COPENHAVER

Associate Editors
JOSHUA BUCHANAN
RUSS TARVER

Sports Editor
MATT PITZER

Photography Editor
ROB KOSICKI

Assistant News Editor
TED PENICK

Assistant Photography Editor
BRANDON CLARKE

Editorial Cartoonist
CHRIS MOORE

Copy Editor
LAUREN FREEMAN

Arts & Living Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY

Assistant Arts & Living Editor
TERESA WHITE

Operations Manager
WILLIAM THORPE

Advertising Managers
MEREDITH BENKE
MATTHEW EIRICH

Circulation Manager
JOANNA JOHNSON

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Top 10 Topics if Davidson Had its Own Talk Show

10. My Life in a Box: Lack of Personal Space at a College of 1,600
9. My Life in a Closet: Sexuality at Davidson
8. My Life in a Bottle: The Story of a Davidson Drunk
7. My Life in Bed: Male-Female Relationships at Davidson
6. My Life in a Bong: Drugs at Davidson?!?
5. My Life in a Basement: A Science Major’s Guide to College Survival
4. My Life in the ‘70s: E.H. Little’s Home Decorating Tips
3. My Life in the Shadows: First Children, Overachievers, and You
2. My Life in Church: 160 Years of Overly-Cautious Presbyterianism
1. My Life: Self-Centeredness and Self-Pity at 28036

My Life in a Box

Jon flew home last week to celebrate his grandmother’s birthday. While there, he decided to get some work done on a paper, and spent half of the only day he was home at the public library. He had to speed to make it home with enough time to get ready for the party that night.

No one was home, though. His father and mother and his sisters were gone, with no note or message to tell him where they could be. He got ready for the party anyway, thinking they might have run an errand. Soon, his mother called to tell him that they were all at the hospital because his 17-year-old brother had been in a wreck and possibly suffered head trauma. Luckily, the boy was fine, but the incident scared Jon. He began to question his priorities. He rarely saw his family, and the one day he had with them he spent at the library working on a Davidson assignment. Although his presence would not have prevented the accident, he was not there for his family when he should have been — or so he thought.

What is important, really? Do the years we shave off our lives under the weight of self-induced pressure add so much to our futures to be worth it? Do the Fall Breaks we commit to work and the Parents’ Weekends we spend in the library produce a return equal in proportion to the investment? They cannot. There is no replacement for people. Those around us are not like books; they can enter and exit, and the knowledge they offer is alive. They cannot be placed in the carrel until next week or summarized in a 30-minute pledged essay. Talking with friends, spending time with family creates us in a way. It gives us the ability to interpret the reflection of life found in books, a two-dimensional world that cannot support us.

Years from now, Jon will be able to find the same information he studied in the public library in his hometown. But how many more birthdays will his grandmother have; how close did his brother come to a kind of book burning? Students walk around this campus clinging to their books, to their calendars, and to their notes as if they were the very marrow of their bones. As social as we are, do we forget each other? Do we say no to an hour with friends in order to merely piddle around in the library, convincing ourselves we are productive? Do we sacrifice a weekend with those dear to us because of a distant test? If we do so, we may ace the review. But as we rise to leave a Chambers classroom, we will see the emptiness around us, and realize, sadly, that we have failed.

LETTERS

Halloween carnival additions

To the editors,

I am writing in response to the article in last week’s Davidsonian concerning the Halloween carnival. First, I would like to thank the staff for including coverage of a charitable event. Service should be an integral part of the student image portrayed by The Davidsonian to supplement the typical ones of beer drinkers and study fiends. Many people on this campus are very committed to making the community a better place; theirlives serve as excellent examples. Second, I would like to thank the staff for giving credit where credit is due. Without the help of the Boehmlers, the event could not have been a success. However, it is particularly important to recognize all those who made the carnival possible. Maybe Sarah Teachworth simply ran out of room. I would like to point out the vital contributions of Michelle Caroll, Mary Margaret Cochrane, her mother, Karen Davids, Katherine Hash, Sakira Peay, and all the freshmen workers. The children and parents who attended the carnival really appreciated all your hard work. They even went out of their way to tell me so. I know that in the future we will be able to reach more people thanks to the combined efforts of committed people like you.

Sincerely,
Jill Stephenson ‘97

Unwanted gifts

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

On Monday morning I awoke to find a lovely surprise on my doorstep. Someone had left me a Harris Teeter plastic bag with brownies inside accompanied by a letter. My first thought was that it was one of those Halloween bags our parents order; however, I quickly realized this was no gift from mom. In fact, I still don’t know who sent them. When I opened the letter addressed to me with my full first, middle, and last name (something which I rarely use), I found that I had been randomly chosen as an individual who needed to be re-directed toward the path of God—apparently I'd lost my way. The letter proceeded to tell me that I was being challenged to step into the light, to take the step which would let Christ into my life, and to run toward God so that he could call me his child. The letter ends with no signature, no invitation to a Bible study group, basically, nothing.

Now, I have a problem with this. Personally, I may not be the ideal church-going Catholic girl my mother had hoped I would be; but I did spend numerous years in Sunday school and at mass, and I have never doubted that I was one of God’s children. Consequently, I really do not mind when someone tries to tell me about their religion, their churches, or religious groups, so long as they do not try and impose their views on others. However, I do mind when someone tries to tell me that I should turn toward religion, and then doesn’t even tell me who they are, what religion they are affiliated with, or where to meet. Of course, the main question I’m asking myself is, ‘why me?’ If I have offended someone to the point that they feel I need to be saved, then I should like to know what it is that I did. Have I really sinned more than my neighbors?

In any event, this is not the first time I hear of this sort of thing happening at Davidson. Last year my roommate, Jenn Ray, received a package at the Union. When she picked it up she found that someone had sent her a Bible with a hand-written card, unsigned, saying that God would save her from her sins. She never found out who the sender was; and the incident has been forgotten. Now we begin to wonder, does someone have something against our apartment? Why have we been randomly targeted; and who for “Christ’s” sake is sending us these mysterious gifts?

I don’t know what happened to Jenn’s Bible. I haven’t seen it lying at her bedside; but I’m sure it didn’t end up in the trash with the brownies that my ever-cautious roommates made me throw away. They claimed that we didn’t know who had made them (have I made that point clear enough?). Mom’s Halloween scare tactics hung over our apartment as those “unwrapped candies” hit the dumpster.

Sincerely,
Frederique Campagne ‘96