6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Week in Washington

Governors meeting a pivotal change

By ANDREA SHORT
Washington Week correspondent

The National Governors Association held its winter meeting in Washington, D.C. last week, the city which traditionally has held almost
absolute power over state governments through federal programs and unfunded mandates. This year’s meeting, however, marked what Marc Racicot, Governor
of Montana, described as “a pivotal change, a sea change in our history.” As the Congress attempts to revamp government,
governors, especially Republican ones, are calling for more autonomy and independence in determining how to run their states.

Most of the conference’s debate centered around the issue of block grants versus federal programs with restrictions. Currently, the federal
government decides how states should run social welfare programs, including Aid to Families with Dependent Children, food stamps, and unemployment
insurance, and then provides them with money for these programs. Republican governors, and some Democrats, recommend replacing the existing policy
with block grants. Under this new proposal, the federal government would still provide federal funds, but the only specific requirement
would demand that the states use the money to help the poor. Governors and state legislators would then implement the
policies that they feel would best serve their state’s poor population.

Although the election of 10 new Republican governors gives the Republicans a majority of 30, such sweeping reforms need a
larger majority before the National Governors Association endorses them. Democrat Howard Dean of Vermont, the association’s chairman, fears that the
Republicans’ ideas will prove too drastic. Many Democrats believe that during economic difficulties, a simple lump sum will run out,
leaving the poor without any support. Currently, social welfare programs are run on an entitlement basis: if more people fall
below the minimum guarantee, the federal government pumps more money into the program; state-run block grants could severely limit the
resources available to help the poor.

The Republicans’ top three guns are Midwestern Governors John Engler of Michigan, Tommy Thompson of Wisconsin, and George Voinovich of
Ohio. Their proposal entails combining welfare, food stamps, and approximately 300 other social programs into eight lump sum payments. Drastic
and controversial, the plan’s only federal guideline would require the states to improve the conditions of the state’s poor in
some way. House Speaker Newt Gingrich gave his approval, but the resolution did not receive the three-fourths majority needed to
pass the Association.

President Clinton, when speaking to the Association last Tuesday, announced that he will propose some modest block grants when he
gives his budget package to Congress early this week. “Now is time to try a new way,” Clinton told the
Governors, “a way that is proven in its performance in the private sector.” His plan would combine 271 federal grants
valued at approximately $50 billion into 27 broadly defined “performance partnerships.” The Office of Management and Budget estimates this elimination
of 130 federal programs will save the federal government over $100 million in the next fiscal year.

Sources include: The January 30, 31 and February 1st issues of The New York Times.

Dean Rusk

Clinton moves to bail out Mexico

By GRAHAM ERNST
Dean Rusk adjunct reporter

With opposition on Capitol Hill mounting against a $40 billion proposal to bail out the Mexican economy, President Clinton used
his emergency executive power to authorize $20 billion in direct and guaranteed loans to the Mexican government as of January
31. In addition to the $20 billion put up by the United States, the International Monetary Fund and the Bank
for International Settlements have agreed to offer $37.8 billion, giving Mexico close to $50 billion in loan guarantees. The peso
responded positively to Clinton’s move the next day by regaining seven percent of its value against the U.S. dollar. Among
other signs that the Mexican economy was beginning to stabilize, the interest rates on government treasury certificates fell four percent,
and the Mexican stock market fell a little less than five percent.

While Clinton’s executive order helped Mexico avoid imminent default on its outstanding loans, several on Capitol Hill criticized Clinton for
being short-sighted in his actions. Many economists fear that although an immediate disaster was averted this past week, the Mexican
economy still has further to fall. Clinton administration officials argued that asideFrom protecting American financial interests, the $20 billion in
American loans will bring progress in negotiating with the Mexican government on issues such as illegal immigration and drug trafficking.
Although Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon has only been in office two months, he faces a growing number
of problems in addition to his nation’s flailing economy. First, there are growing divisions in his party, the PRI. Second,
the government has failed to reach a long-standing agreement with the guerrillas in Chiapas. Finally, PRI candidates are trailing in
five upcoming state elections.

Despite the immediate recovery of the peso, there are many signs of economic unrest in Mexico. Last Tuesday, 4,000 workers
walked off their jobs at the Thomson Consumer Electronic plant in Ciudad Juarez. This came when prices continued to exceed
their designated ceilings while workers’ wages stayed at their government-controlled limit. Government officials quickly dispatched negotiators to re-instill worker confidence
in the January 3 agreement that placed controls on wages and many prices.

This latest move by the Clinton administration was viewed by many as another failure in its ability to rally Congressional
support for White House initiatives. However, with Bill Clinton’s approval rating coasting at 54%, some feel that Clinton showed strong
leadership in pursuing a clear goal, something that he has consistently failed to do in the past. As the nation
closes in on the 1996 Presidential race, many will keep a close eye on the Mexican economy to determine if
this past week’s events depict a maturing President gearing up for the campaign or a failing president on his way
out.

Sources include Feb. 1 and 2 issues of The New York Times, Feb. 2 issue of The Wall Street Journal,
and Jan. 29 and 31 and Feb. 1 issues of The Washington Post.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1995

Looney Tunes tape recalled due to racial slurs

Los Angeles—A World War II-era cartoon that shows Bugs Bunny passing out bombs to Japanese people he calls “slant-eyes” and
“monkey face” is being pulled from the Golden Age of Looney Tunes video. The 1944 “Bugs Nips the Nips” is
one of the several cartoons on the MGM-UA Home Video tape, which has been in stores since September of 1993.
About 8,000 copies have been sold.

“We are very offended,” says Lori Fujimoto of the Japanese-Americans Citizens League. MGM-UA Spokeswoman Anne Corley says the company received
one complaint. The tapes will be recalled and no longer distributed; the other cartoons on the tape will probably be
re-released.

—taken from the Charlotte Observer, February 5, 1995

Clinton aides visited Foster’s office before police

Washington—Presidential aides entered Vincent Foster’s office twice on the day before they permitted police investigating the White House lawyer’s suicide
to see it, according to Secret Service entry logs. Two entries on July 21, 1993, bring to four the number
of known times White House officials entered Foster’s office before police were permitted to search it.

The Secret Service logs, never before disclosed, show that:
* Then-White House counsel Bernard Nussbaum entered the office the morning after the suicide and removed a photograph.
* White House lawyer Clifford Sloan, a Nussbaum aide, returned later in the evening to put a bag of trash
removed by janitors back into Foster’s office.

For the past eight months, Whitewater prosecutors have been investigating the removal of documents from Foster’s office, including some involving
the first family’s business dealings that ended up in President and Mrs. Clinton’s private quarters in the White House. A
key question for prosecutors — as well as congressional investigators — is exactly when documents were removed and where they
were taken. Republicans have questioned whether the scene was tampered with.

—taken from the Atlanta Constitution, January 29, 1995

HOMETOWN RECORDS PRESENTS...
Electro-LUXE Single release party
Monday Night at The Backstreet
Valentine's Eve
10 p.m. until...

Always DISCOUNT pricing
Always the GOOD STUFF
Always SERVICE, SERVICE, SERVICE!
Lakeshore Market Place
892-7882
