The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

VOLUME LXXXVI MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1995 NUMBER 17

Smokin’ Bill Gullan and Buford burn up SGA election

By Mary Laura Moretz
Staff writer

When the election results finally came in last Tuesday, junior Bill Gullan and sophomore Warren Buford had nothing but compliments
for each other, as the new SGA President and Vice President, respectively.

“I’m looking forward to working with Warren. He’s a very competent individual,” Gullan said Tuesday evening when the runoff against
junior Allison Sabel yielded him the victory. The runoff resulted from the initial race among Gullan, Sabel, and junior Bo
Bartholomew.

Buford says he would have been “happy to work with any of the candidates, but I’m really excited about working
with Bill. He’s such a dynamic person.”

Gullan campaigned with the slogan, “Put some bite in the SGA.” He plans to begin immediately “implementing my platform of
greater student involvement, representation in the admissions process, and achieving unity among the many student groups on campus.”

Buford counts student involvement as one of his primary goals. He emphasizes the importance of “educating the school about the
SGA. I'd like to see a flow chart for students so if they want something done, they know how to
do it.”

As they prepare to begin their terms, both Gullan and Buford stress the SGA’s role in enhancing life for all
students at Davidson. Says Buford, “We want to give to all members of the school what they expect from us.”

FOILED | Brandon Clarke
Newly elected SGA President Bill Gullan discusses an issue with verve.

Junior Chris Alpert's drive was not enough to prevent a setback.

By JENNIFER KERNS
Staff writer

Steps have been taken to turn Johnston Gym into the new Student Union. Union Director William Brown and Dean of
Students Tom Shandley met Wednesday with an architect for a feasibility study of Johnston Gym. The facilities planning committee, consisting
of the four vice presidents of the college and the president’s assistant, approved the new project, which it has not
yet approved.

After years of planning, although the Capital Campaign will raise $2 million for the project by July 1, Brown affirms
that this money alone cannot provide any significant changes in the near future. “In the most optimistic view, even if
the trustees approve in April, and we raised the money, we could start a phase, but $2 million won’t be
enough for everything,” he says.

Shandley has high hopes for the future of the Union. He cites the Johnston Gym Plan as a priority. The
Union will not compete for money because the Dana project has already been approved. After Dana, the Union is the
biggest priority. “When money is being raised, that means that this is serious.”

Next Wednesday, the Johnston Gym Planning Committee will meet with the architects to examine the development plans, revised after a
December presentation. Davidson College hired Little and Associates, a Charlotte firm, to evaluate the needs for a new Union and
ensure thatThese needs can be fulfilled in this building. Brown denies that the meeting constituted “big news.” Instead, he stresses
the importance of the April meeting with the trustees. He also names fund-raising as a Planning Committee, which he heads,
as another step in the long process toward a new Union. The committee, created last semester, allows students, faculty, and
staff to discuss the location and size for the Union. They help ensure that every program fits into the new
Union.

Later, the architects will display three distinct plans to the college and ask for responses. The planning committee will submit
the final revised plan to the trustees. If the project is approved in April, and the $2 million raised, the
college must hire an architect. Shandley stresses the importance of the Development Office having monetary control over the project.

See Perry’s Place on page 4

One-point upset from Western Carolina. See story on page 14.

Campus to see the light; senators receive “blank check”

By ASHLYN DANNELLY
Staff writer

Last week freshman SGA senator Lucian Dervan and Senior Class President B.J. Rudell bypassed the SGA and took matters into
their own hands, successfully obtaining unlimited funding for better lighting on campus. The two senators’ quest began with a letter
to Vice President for Business and Finance Bob Sutton requesting that a percentage of fees gained from parking tickets go
to a security fund, which would then be used to improve campus lighting.

The evolution of an idea

Dervan and Rudell also met with Director of Public Safety & Police Ray Thrower. Rudell says, “with two objectives: parking
and lighting. We hoped to solve both. Lighting had always been a problem, then high parking tickets came later.” However,
Rudell says, “lowering parking tickets is pretty much a lost cause... they see it (parking fines) as a way to
balance the budget... if we ask them to lower them, they’re going to have to come up with the money
elsewhere. Lowering parking tickets is like lowering the tuition. It’s not going to go down.” Rudell encourages people to “read
the parking rules carefully and appeal tickets if necessary.”

Small victory

Yet, Rudell and Dervan gained a small victory: the lowering of the automobile re-registering fee from ten to three dollars.
This fee now charges students for just the price of their parking sticker when they change automobiles for whatever reason.
Rudell says the change was “a concession for not changing the parking ticket costs.”

The SGA’s role

When Dervan and Rudell discussed their letter in last Tuesday’s SGA meeting, Dervan says, “Various figures on the SGA, at
the mention of the word ‘parking tickets,’ started complaining about high costs.”

See Shine on page 4

Ole! Outdoor basketball courts named for Adriana Ortega.

Move over, I’m a student. Stan Boyd complains about student seating at b-ball games.

OPINIONS 9

Meat-on-a-stick: eat you I will. Tasty recipes part of Africa Week summary.

ARTS & LIVING 12

We lost. Davidson athletic teams suffer a brutal week of defeats.

SPORTS 14
