- THE DAVIDSONIAN. MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1995

Che DMabvidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
MANDY CURTIS
ROBERT RAMSAY

Arts & Living Editor
JOHN COPENHAVER

Business Manager
KATHERINE HASH

Asst. Arts & Living Editor
TERESA WHITE

Operations Manager
JOSHUA BUCHANAN

Associate Editors
WILLIAM ROBERT
RUSS TARVER

Sports Editor
MATT PITZER

Advertising Managers
MEREDITH BENKE
ANDY BOSWELL

News Editor
MATTHEW EIRICH

Photography Editor
ROB KOSICKI

Circulation Manager
TED PENICK

Assistant News Editor
JOANNA JOHNSON

Asst. Photography Editor
BRANDON CLARKE

Editorial Cartoonist
CHRIS MOORE

Opinions Editor
JEFF KENT

Copy Editor
LAUREN FREEMAN

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

NON-LETHAL BAND GUM CONFRONTATIONS

De JARFUL #\ HORNETS
RAT TRAP
CAUSES PANIC, CONFUSION, & PAIN IN ASSAILANT

ALTERNATIVES FOR THOSE CLOSE QUARTER

WET NOODLE
DEVASTATING IN DARKENED ALLEYS

OPEN-FACED GRILLED CHEESE
IF APPLIED TO ATTACKER'S FACE, CAUSES BLINDNESS, ACUTE HUNGER ANXIETY

BOOGER
FLICKED WITH SUFFICIENT FORCE, WILL INDUCE NAUSEA, CLEARLY IF AIMED AT THE MOUTH OR EYES

HICKORY HAM'S DISFIGURING INABILITY TO BRING ANY BODY PART TO HOT SAUCE
APPLIED TO SKIN, CAUSES VERY EFFECTIVE PAIN AGAINST RAPISTS/ASSAILANTS

Half-naked and tripping

What’s the big deal? So what if the Bud Light Girls were featured at the senior party at Signatures last Thursday night? What’s so bad about girls dressed in skimpy, tight black dresses with the Bud Light logo written right across their probably-surgically-enhanced chests? What’s so offensive about young girls strutting around a bar and getting paid for giving out t-shirts and bottle openers? So what?

Now, how many people watched the Miss America pageant Saturday night? What’s all this hoopla about the bathing suit competition? They’re allowed to wear bathing suits and high heels in late September. How these women look in a swimming suit is absolutely essential in order to judge who should be crowned Miss America. Can she sing, can she dance, can she talk and smile at the same time, can she walk around half-naked without tripping? These are extremely important measures of judgment — we don’t want just anyone.

In the past four days, two public events have demonstrated the still pervasive sexism active in our society. These events show, at the least, that we haven’t done enough in our crusade against gender biases. How can women fight for equality in education, government, or business when for centuries they have been seen as objects of men’s sexual desires? Either consciously or subconsciously, men and women translate the “ideal” images of women into a basis for judging all women. These images effectively silence women; they are seen as more physical creatures than men, and men are therefore more intellectual - more fit for business, government, and education.

Of course, so many women suffer from eating disorders and body image problems when all they see on television, in magazines, on billboards, in movies, at pep rallies, or at a bar are women labeled “perfect.” The very notion of the existence of a “perfect body” is a perverse belief. Yet all of these forms of advertisement and entertainment continue to communicate that women should strive to be 5’5” and under 119. The message behind the bathing suit and the black dress screams that this is what women should look like, and that they should look like this for men.

We don’t want to sound like Shulamith Firestone or any of the radical feminists who believe lesbianism and test-tube babies are the only escape from oppression for women. But we do recognize the subtle and incessant sexist messages fed to us every day, usually under the guise of innocent fun. At the senior party, the men and women were split up to play a trivia game. The women were asked sports questions and the men were asked soap opera questions, as if the men only knew sports and the women only knew soaps. Obviously, these messages are being sent both ways.

And we can’t just brush it off by saying “it’s the media’s fault.” Obviously, we are also at fault. We are not at fault for going to Signatures even though we know the Bud Light Girls will be there, and we are not at fault for watching movies or television shows that objectify women — or men, for that matter. We are at fault when we recognize these images, and don’t think about what they represent (in effect, condoning them). We are at fault when we accept the Bud Lightgirls and the “perfect” Miss Americas unblinkingly and definitively as the truth. The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTERS

Thanks for the wake-up call

To the editors,

Last week The Davidsonian reported that Davidson has slipped from number eight to number 21 in U.S. News and World Report’s annual college rankings. The administration was dumbfounded and were unable to provide a plausible explanation. This report should serve as a wake-up call to this same administration. Why has Davidson slipped? Perhaps because the administration and faculty have forgotten about the needs of the students. An obvious example of this neglect may be found at Covington Golf Course. The athletic department has failed to maintain this facility in the least. They cite funding and physical plant lay-offs as reasons for the abominable condition of the course, yet they still can afford to build and maintain new facilities for the soccer teams. The athletic department has sacrificed the numerous average golfers so that a few elites can have a shiny new practice facility.

Further, the admissions staff has been over-enrolling for the past few years. This increase in student population has coincided with a faculty decision to cut classes taught from six to five a year. As a result, fewer and larger classes must serve an ever-growing student body. Where are the close and personal classes that Davidson has bragged about for years? They are quickly disappearing because the same number of professors are teaching fewer classes to more students.

This year fall convocation has been moved from parents’ weekend so that Davidson can put on a big show for a fundraising campaign. My parents are coming to parents’ weekend. They were especially looking forward to seeing their $100,000 investment walk all dressed up in cap and gown (perhaps the only material return they will ever get on their money). I wonder how my parents are going to feel when I tell them the tenth of a million dollars they have paid over the past four years is not sufficient to secure a seat at fall convocation.

I would like to thank the staff at U.S. News and World Report for giving Davidson a reality check. The faculty and staff have been so busy patting themselves on the back that they have forgotten about the one major area that a liberal arts institution must cater to, the students. Perhaps now we can see a return to the student-oriented college that so many of us fell in love with years ago.

Sincerely,
Burt Arrington ‘96

At least get our name right

To the editors,

It’s no wonder Davidson dropped in the U.S. News and World Report rankings — they don’t even know our real name! In their special college ranking edition, the magazine included a special promotional ad on the cover referring to Davidson as Davidson University. It’s amazing how in over three years of attendance at this school I have remained completely unaware of our graduate program.

How can we place any faith in a group of journalists who lack the basic intelligence and research skills to omit such blatant errors on the front page of their magazine? Personally, I believe the preoccupation with these rankings only does our institution discredit. Let’s stop paying so much attention to some ranking compiled by clearly uninformed reporters who probably have never even visited our campus. Get back to the things that made Davidson great in the first place: helpful, accessible professors; small, challenging classes; a friendly, open atmosphere; an intelligent yet charming student body; and open court parties with no limits on alcohol distribution or underage drinking (sorry, I had to throw that last one in there).

The people responsible for rating the various national liberal arts colleges are obviously as clueless as they are careless. I wish the rest of the students and faculty here would join me in tossing this second-rate tabloid in the trash next to the last copy of The National Enquirer.

Sincerely,
Mike Guggenheimer ‘96