THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1995

By Joshua BUCHANAN
Operations Manager

Ever ponder the great mysteries of Davidson College? Have you sat for hours, attempting to understand the nature of the
library’s carpet? Or the essence of flickerball? Well read carefully, knowledge-seekers, for one of the great mysteries is about to
be unfolded to you: the mystery of... the laundry.

NEWS FEATURE

Yes, the laundry. No matter what gets your clothes clean today, just about everyone here has the big bundles of
brown paper to grab at one time or another. And the questions they raise have been the source of conversation
for freshman halls throughout the school’s history. “How do they keep track of my stuff, even though I know I
didn’t put my number on it?” “What do those numbers mean on my ticket?” and “Do they actually employ someone
to smash my buttons?” Well here is the story, from start to finish.

That Bag o’ Laundry you bring goes into those big holding containers. It is here that the magic begins. The
bags of laundry are sorted and weighed, their weight recorded on a ticket along with the laundry number, and are
placed into mesh bags. They pin these bags together with the biggest safety pins I have ever seen. Each of
these pins has a number on it that they use to keep track of whose things they have. This is
also the point where laundry workers begin to lose their sight. Have you ever squinted at your clothes, trying to
decide if that laundry number is still discernible enough to keep you from breaking out the Rub-A-Dub pen? Well, they
squint, too. (Please, save their eyes. Use that laundry marker.) A ticket is written out at this time that follows
the bags throughout their journey.

These mesh bags make their way into the washing machines themselves. Yes, for those of you out there wondering, they
do use soap. After the load is done (and a rather alarming yelp from the machine indicates it is finished),
they hang the loads onto a rack to be sent to the dryers. The rack itself, with all its open
safety pins and large, lumpy bags, conjures images of the warehouse scene in Rocky — you know, the one where
he’s punching the meat. The clothes are taken out of the mesh bags and thrown in the dryer, much like
you would do your own laundry. When finished they are removed and folded and then, with a lightning-like motion, wrapped
in the brown paper we all know and love. I must admit that one needs to see this in action
— the wrapping is over before you know it.

That is the basic process for normal clothes. “But wait!” you might say, “Is that all there is to cleaning
my clothes?” The answer is a resounding NO! A quick tour of the highlights of the other parts of the
laundry will show you that getting your clothes clean, ALL of your clothes, is a complicated process.

No description of the laundry could be complete without mentioning the Flatwork Iron. Officially named the “Simplex Flatwork Finisher,” it
is a gigantic device with all kinds of mysterious looking belts and buttons. This device irons the bedclothes that the
laundry supplies. It performs this task in a way that I wasn’t capable of understanding at the time, but nevertheless
produces impressive results. The laundry staff also tried to show me how it could be used to fold the sheets
as well, but that wasn’t terribly impressive. It performed the action, but not very well, like trying to get that
Slinky to race down the stairs when you know deep down that it really is not going to work.

The dry cleaning area provided further mysteries to unravel. John Cherry enthusiastically explained the functions of the different devices. He
underscored the fact that “dry” cleaning does not mean the clothes don’t get wet with water. They treat your clothes
with a chemical called Perkosomething, but one of those molecular model thingees from the chemistry department would be required to
explain it fully here. SufficeTo say, they go in dry and come out the See Washboard on page 5

Town to off-campus students: Be considerate or else
By KATHERINE DAVIS
Staff Writer

During the September 13 meeting at the Davidson Town Hall, off-campus students were summoned to discuss with Chief of Police
Hank McKiernan off-campus parties. The students were summoned to the meeting because town residents found some of their parties to
be disruptive. This was not a meeting aimed at criticizing the students but rather as a means of discussing plans
which would be helpful in keeping the College and community on good terms.

“I understand that we live in a small town and we can’t go raising hell all the time in a
community of citizens, but at the same time, we are college students who are living in a college town,” said
Brad Orr. “I agree that there needs to be some kind of understanding by both students who live on and
off campus that guidelines exist and they are meant to be met. Some may think it unfair but I see
it as simply a fact of life.”

McKiernan made some suggestions to the students as to how they could avoid trouble with the law and perhaps disruption
of their neighbors as well. He stated that if students who are throwing a party begin to see it getting
out of hand, they themselves should contact the police by dialing 911 and have officers come to the scene of
the party to quiet things down or disperse the crowds if the party hosts cannot do so on their own.
If this happens, the police officers will not file a written complaint for the students’ permanent records nor will they
contact the landlords the next day. However, if a party does get out of hand and a neighbor has to

See Kiokobo on page 4

Bone marrow drive asks for help
By REPRESENTATIVES OF Project LIFE

We are a group of Davidson College students collectively called Project Life. Each year we are responsible for organizing a
bone marrow drive on the Davidson College campus to enroll students, faculty, and community members on the National Donor Registry.
With the assistance of the Red Cross, blood samples are taken from volunteers to be tissue tested and added to
the National Registry. Bone marrow transplants are critical in saving many people from life-threatening diseases such as leukemia, aplastic anemia,
breast cancer, and over 60 other fatal diseases. Unfortunately, the detailed blood work involved with typing each volunteer costs $60.
As you can imagine, overcoming the cost of analysis is the major obstacle we face in putting together a successful
drive.

This year, the drive will be November 15, and we must begin fundraising now in order to accommodate our goal
of enrolling four hundred new volunteers. The 1995-96 academic year will be the sixth consecutive year that Project Life has
held a bone marrow drive. The effort began with three Davidson College students who had successful transplant operations, and recognized
the need to enlarge the National Donor Registry. In the previous five years, the Davidson drive has been directly responsible
for placing over 1,700 people on the Registry. Since 1993, five Davidson students have donated their marrow to patients in
need of transplants. As the most successful student-run drive in the country, we have become a model and a resource
for other schools interested in starting a similar program.

Tragically, a patient has only one chance in 20,000 of finding an unrelated bone marrow donor on the national registry.
These odds are improved each year by the work of organizations like ours here at Davidson College. The money that
we raise is graciously matched by the National Marrow Donor Program. In doing so, they enable us to double the
number of volunteers we can type with our financial limitations. Each $60 contribution will give two more people the opportunity
to save a life. Thank you for your time and consideration. Please mail any contributions to P.O. Box 834, Davidson,
NC 28036.

Sat., Sept. 30
UNC - Charlotte
Locally, call 522-7600
*At selected locations. Not all seminars offered at all locations.

Got the Inside Track on admissions
Come to one of our
1-800-KAP-TEST
KAPLAN
