RIS & LIVING MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 1995

Postcards from the Edge
“You’re a village girl now.”
By TRACY PRIVETTE & SARA SMITH
Guest writers

“You're a village girl now.” These were the words of Dr. Jeevanandem, our host in India and the founder of
the Keel Ottivakkam Grama Sangam, a center for disabled children. Along with Pin Chang, Tony Yoder, Sara Smith, and Bonner
Scholar coordinator Katherine Cooke, I volunteered in India for four weeks this summer, two of which were spent with the
children in the village of Keel Ottivakkam. There’s no doubt about it: India is strange to Western eyes in almost
every aspect imaginable.

During our stay, we immersed ourselves in village culture. Far from the Taj Mahal and the tourist beaches of Goa,
Keel Ottivakkam was reachable only by bus — and we don’t mean a Greyhound. Because the buses traveled along roads
laden with crater-sized holes, their shocks were nonexistent. Seats were the prized possession of those who dove and shoved the
hardest — usually men. Everyone else was left to stand in aisles which were so crowded that the ticket collector
could barely squeeze through.

In our group of five, the three women stayed in rooms at the children’s hostel, while the two men slept
in a thatched-roof mud hut behind the home of Jeevanandem’s mother. We were awakened each morning to roosters screeching, and
those of us in the hostel also heard the sounds of children yelling, “Auntie, Auntie!” at the bottom of the
stairwell. Before breakfast, we joined the kids downstairs for “exercise.” Doing physical therapy for the polio-stricken children proved to be
exercise mainly for us. The most difficult part, however, was seeing the pain on their faces as we attempted to
strengthen and straighten their polio-atrophied legs. One day Sara said to me, “I have never prayed as desperately for anything
as for these children.”

Our work in the village would have been much harder if it hadn’t been for the kids' vibrant personalities and
eager acceptance of us. Among other things, they told the women in our group that our Western clothes were too
drab and that we were not wearing enough jewelry. The older girls eagerly placed bindis between our eyes on our
foreheads. To them, the red dots increased our beauty immensely. As village girls (and boys) we...

See The Edge on page 12

Doors Open to a New Universe: Cosmic Coffee
By TERESA WHITE
Assistant Arts & Living Editor

The sign promoting Cosmic Coffee has been in the window of the old antique store on Main Street for so
long this summer that some were beginning to doubt its actual arrival. But despite extended delays in construction, the shop
is coming to Davidson. The earliest predicted opening date is mid-October, and at the latest early November, according to owner
and cook Nancy McBride Gray.

“The waiting has been extremely frustrating for me,” she says. “Trouble with contractors has set us back. We’ve gone through
two rounds of designing and bidding and redesigning and re-bidding. I like to jump into things, get right on them.
I’m frustrated with the rate of progress so far, and anxious to open the doors.”

Gray and her husband own another Cosmic Coffee in Blowing Rock, NC, but actually opened their first coffee shop in
Charlotte on North Davidson Street. As the city and coffee shop expanded, however, the couple grew tired of the atmosphere
and moved to Blowing Rock, leaving their daughter to run the café. “Blowing Rock has a quality of life that
is hard to find. There is a village atmosphere that is rare,” Gray says. It is an atmosphere that she
has found again in Davidson.

Gray plans to recreate most aspects of the Blowing Rock Cosmic Coffee here. The menus will be the same, offering
muffins, bagels, desserts, and a light lunch including soup, salads, and pizza du jour. And the coffee, of course —
espresso, café au lait, cappuccino, and a variety of gourmet blends. The coffee will be roasted in the Blowing Rock
shop and brought to the Davidson one. “They say it roasts better at high altitudes.” Gray stresses...that they make all
the food served. “It’s all fresh; nothing is bought and served. I’m concerned about the way Americans today eat. I
make things light whenever possible.” The Davidson Cosmic Coffee will probably have later hours than the other one. Gray says,
“We are thinking about 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. during the week and until midnight on the weekends. We’d like
some feedback about that.” The Blowing Rock shop has also become a local venue for struggling musicians to play. “We
focus on young artists performing original music. Cole Coffee, Chuck Henderson, and David Childers are some of our favorites. We
hope they’ll follow us here to play,” she says. “But,” she adds, “don’t worry about cover charges. We don’t believe
in cover charges. That’s too much like a bar. We’re a friendly coffee shop.”

Another feature Cosmic Coffee hopes to offer is a computer carrel, so that customers will be able to e-mail: “I
mean, we are Cosmic, and this is, after all, almost the twenty-first century.” Gray emphasizes that this is not going
to be “a typical college dive. We don’t want or like the dive atmosphere. We want it comfortable, approachable. This
shop is for everyone.”

The Summer Stage: Abbott and Barber bring community together through theater
By JOHN COPENHAVER
Arts & Living Editor

Throughout the summer Professor of Theatre Rupert Barber and Professor of English Tony Abbott were rigorously involved with summer theater
at Davidson. In both cases, the professors found drama in the Davidson community to be an interesting and rewarding change
from the school year.

Barber directed a production of Bells Are Ringing, a 50s vintage hit musical set in New York City with a
cast from the Davidson community and surrounding area. According to Barber, this group, officially called the Davidson Community Players, consisted
of over 100 volunteers doing everything from ushering to acting. “To see that many people involved in some aspect of
theater is exciting,” Barber said as he reflected back on the summer. Although Davidson Community Players is considered an amateur
company, it draws many talented individuals from the surrounding area as well as from the Davidson faculty.

This group of players originally grew out of female actors that came from the community to act with the male
students when Davidson was still single-sex. Once the college started accepting women students, there was no longer a need to
bring women in from the community. These female actors desired an outlet for their creative energy. Thus the Davidson Community
Players was born. Barber has been witness to the growth of this community organization in the past years and wishes
to see it continue to grow in the future.

Abbott had a different experience directing a new play called The Moving of Lilla Barton by John MacNicholas, Playwright-in-Residence at
the University of South Carolina in Columbia. MacNicholas, who grew up in Statesville, wrote this play with great appeal to
small southern communities such as Davidson. The play is about an Episcopal minister’s widow who struggles to come to terms
with her grief over her husband’s death. This struggle centers around her refusal to leave her home, the rectory, as
a way of preserving her identity and dignity. Abbott says, “We thought the idea of doing a new play by
a regional playwright was wonderful” and a way of bringing a new play to the attention of the public.

On opening night MacNicholas, Abbott, and the cast held an open discussion with the audience which proved to be a
stimulating experience in itself. “I think it’s a way of allowing the audience to participate not only in seeing the
play but also in talking and getting involved in the issues that the play raised,” Abbott commented. It is a
successful way for the actors to get important feedback from the community and a way for the audience to express
their thoughts on the play. Having an open discussion is a way to underline “community” in “community theater.”

In both cases, these professor-directors were successful in their summer endeavors. Community theater in Davidson is proof of what can
be accomplished by a spirited group of people. This vivacity and strength of theater is a trait that carries over
from the school year into the community with rewarding and exciting results.
