NEWS. MONDAY, MARCH 20, 1995 5 THE DAVIDSONIAN

OUT HANGIN’ OUT

Rob Kosicki

Frisbee, biking, sunning, running, or lounging out on the couch, all enjoyed the beautiful warm March weather of North Carolina. Hail to College in the South.

Making copies...

Student demand brings more machines

By JENNIFER KERNS
Staff Writer

After requests from SGA, the library has ordered a fourth copier to be delivered next week. Library Director Leland Park approved the proposal drafted by senior senator Chad Lloyd, sending a copy of his research findings to SGA President Bill Gullan.

Park says, “We’re here for the students. If there’s a real need for a fourth copier, then we will provide it.” Park looked into the other options proposed by SGA such as the Cat card system for the copiers. With a cost of $8,000 to set up and maintain the system, Park says the system could never make the cost worthwhile. “We get our money mostly from the copies students make, and if having a fourth copier will increase the volume, we will buy it. At a cost of $30,000 it will pay for itself considering the 600,000 copies students make every year.”

Park also looked at the possibility of copier cards, used at bigger universities such as Chapel Hill or UNCC. “With the cards, we could change the copier price to maybe seven cents, and students would not need cash with a card. However, the card would be just one more thing for students to carry with them, and they would lose money on it. Plus we would have the added job of computerizing the cards and machines.”

Park called a company about credit card copiers; however, the Raleigh company went out of business before he could talk with them about this system. Therefore, the new copier will come, but will run as a coin-operated system as the current machines do.

Rosenbach from page 1

“I’ve always been interested in politically changing societies. Two summers ago I went to Bulgaria on a Dean Rusk grant and wanted to continue studying that society. It didn’t hurt to have a recommendation from Ambassador Jack Perry.” Perry is Director of Davidson’s Dean Rusk program and is a former U.S. Ambassador to Bulgaria.

“The Fulbright foundation works to better mutual understanding between citizens of both the U.S. and another country. You go to the country as an ambassador, but the focus is of an academic nature,” says Rosenbach.

Although most Fulbright scholarships go to Ph.D. candidates doing field research, they occasionally go to people who have just completed undergraduate study, explains Professor of Political Science and Chairman of Davidson’s Fulbright Committee Dr. Louis Ortmayer. “Competition is keen but uneven in terms of countries,” says Ortmayer. The bigger and more popular the country chosen, the smaller the odds.of receiving a Fulbright become. Davidson students interested in applying for the scholarship submit proposals to Ortmayer’s committee. The committee interviews candidates and then recommends them to the Fulbright Foundation in New York. The foundation then selects those best qualified to follow through with their proposals. The program provides winners with funds for international travel and a stipend for room and board at a university. Two other Davidson students, senior political science majors Danny Newman and Sherry Abdelaaty, were also nominated for the scholarship and are still waiting to hear results. Abdelaaty proposes to study the role of women in Egypt, a Muslim country. Newman hopes to study public health in India.

SHORT ON CASH? Plasma makes lots of cents! Visit our friendly, modern center and find out how you can earn up to $195 a month while helping others! DONATE PLASMA TODAY and earn $30! "people helping people" Valid ID with social security number required 1511 Central Ave. at Pecan Charlotte, NC 333-0335 M-TH: 6:30am-9pm; FRI: 6:30am-8pm SAT: 7:30am-6pm; SUN: 7:30am-4:30pm

Crosby, Carlson to lead women’s sexuality forum Group will explore body image, sensuality, and sexuality By JENNIFER KERNS Staff Writer

As part of Women’s Month, Dr. DeWitt Crosby of the Davidson Counseling Center and former Women’s Committee Chair Sara Carlson ‘93 will lead a women’s sexuality discussion Thursday, March 23 at 7 p.m. in the Carolina Inn. Carlson says, “We don’t want a boring lecture that will make you feel uncomfortable. We want to have activities to generate discussion. We want this to be fun.” They intend to explore with participants the interrelatedness of body image, sensuality, and sexuality. Crosby says, “How we view our bodies affects the way we see ourselves sensually and sexually. Many women repress their sexual natures, when we were born sexual creatures. “We want to have a women-only discussion because the issue of sexuality is very hard for some women to talk about, especially in mixed groups. We would like to have a mixed age group, with students, faculty, and staff sharing. “I think this discussion would be called X-rated because we will be talking about some things that could make people uncomfortable. However, we don’t want to force anyone to talk. We want to raise issues as well as answer questions.” Anyone who wishes to attend should call Sara Carlson at -2241 to sign up.

1995-96 Hall Counselors
Lora Chavis
Elizabeth DuBose
Claire Freeman
Kathi Harker
Jennifer Hibbert
Kristen Kidd
Wendy Nichols
Rebekah Peeples
Sallie Permar
Lucia Plosser
Amy Scalcucci
Maggie Slocum
Jill Stephenson
Morgan Todd
Elyse Whiteman
Jonathan Coulombe
Meredith Mucha
C. Jason Wright
Bo Craig
Chris Currie
Chad Fogleman
David Foss
Josh Fowkes
Saad Gul
Jay Hinton
Brad House
Mike Ingram
Thayer Long
Alan Marshall
Matthew Pearson
Matthew Rich
Christopher Smith
Mordecai Stolk
Rix Threadgill
Rob Voglebacher

HELP WANTED!! Men/Women earn up to $480 weekly assembling circuit boards/electronic components at home. Experience unnecessary, will train. Immediate openings in your local area. Call 1-602-680-4647. Ext.102c

with any ice cream or frozen yogurt purchase and this
507 Providence Rd. 333-1003
The Arboretum 43-8333
202 S. Main St. Davidson 892-0604
Offer Expires: 4/3/95