Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Drunk Driving report approved 2: THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1995 ©

NEWS BRIEFS

Money Watch

Recently, the Activities Tax Council (ATC) was petitioned by several organizations for funds. The Council granted some funds to the Student Health Options Committee (SHOC), The Davidsonian, HAVOC, Fellowship of Christian Athletes, and the Chess team. The Dean Rusk Program and North Carolina Student State Legislature were granted no additional funding.

SHOC petitioned for $1000 to bring speaker Jay Friedman to its health fair. ATC representative J.D. DuPuy said the ATC gave SHOC $400 and encouraged the organization to seek the difference from other campus groups. The Davidsonian was given $2000 to help offset the cost of printing the pull-out activities calendar. Printing the calendar required the newspaper to move from a 16 to a 20-page edition. The remainder of the cost for the extra four pages was paid by The Davidsonian.

HAVOC is a Reachout organization which sponsors service trips to other parts of the country during breaks in the school year. DuPuy said the ATC gave HAVOC $250, “seed money,” as a starting point and also to post fliers and other advertisements. Fellowship of Christian Athletes has moved its office to Johnston Gym and needed $27 a month for phone bills. In total, FCA received $189.

The Chess Team received an incentive-based grant. The team proposed a campus-wide chess tournament, held on Saturday. The ATC promised $15 for each student who registered to play or up to $450. The top four finishers received plaques and a transportation subsidy to represent Davidson at the Pan-American International Chess Championship in New York. The four chess players will have to partially pay their own way, however. The ATC decided to fund the chess team because the campus tournament was open to all students interested in playing chess and because the team has performed very impressively at the New York tournament in the past.

The Dean Rusk Program was denied funds, according to DuPuy, because the relationship of the Dean Rusk Program and the Student Advisory Council (SAC) was unclear. The ATC was not certain of how much funding the program could get from the SAC. The ATC wanted the two organizations to clarify their relationship and how funding one affects the other.

The NCSSL was denied additional funding because the money was for travel, a use of ATC funds which is specifically forbidden in the ATC guidelines, according to DuPuy. DuPuy also mentioned NCSSL’s low membership, which usually hovers around six students. NCSSL already receives $685 to pay for membership dues.

The ATC operates under the auspices of the SGA, which must approve all ATC recommendations. At the October 31 meeting, the SGA approved en masse the ATC recommendations. Will Cowan (SAE) and Yanti Ardie (Independent Senator) voted against the recommendations.

CCRL Approvals

Senior Senator Ashley Tabb nominated Senior Adam Knapp and Freshman Ellen Rockwell to fill the final two vacancies on the Council on Campus and Religious Life. The two nominees were approved. The SGA has six appointments to the Council which were just now filled because of administrative error last year.

The Ad Hoc Committee on Drunk Driving met Wednesday night to discuss and approve the final draft of its report. The Committee did approve the report and decided to distribute it to pertinent administrators, student leaders, organizations, off-campus drinking establishments, and town officials. Copies of the report are available upon request from Sophomore Senator Matthew Hobbie.

Project Life Bone Marrow Drive Wednesday, November 15 11 am to 4 pm Morrison Room of Union

Knox wins sixth mayoral term

Three incumbents, two freshmen elected to board

By Matthew Eirich News Editor

The most crowded election in Davidson history ended with Mayor Russel Knox narrowly winning a sixth term over his longtime colleague on the board, commissioner Randall Kincaid. Knox received 685 votes while Kincaid earned 636.

Incumbents winning re-election were Garfield Carr, with 771 votes; Sandy Carnegie, who received 629 votes; and Judy Schuh, who got 623. They’ll be joined by Bruce McMillen, who received 768 votes, and Margo Williams, who earned 657.Votes. Davidson residents had a record number of candidates to choose from — two for mayor and 13 for the board of commissioners. Kincaid vacated one of the commission seats when he decided to make a run for mayor. Commissioner Jane Avinger did not seek re-election. Others in the crowded commissioners race were Brian Jenest, who received 491 votes; Amy Diamond, who received 495; Dave Martin, 434; Robert Maier, 178; William Mayhew, 270; Sondra Pettus, 191; Connie Millsap, 211; and Nason Fishback, 124. McMillen, 52, is chief financial officer for Cogentrix Energy Inc. Williams, the other newcomer to the board, is 46 and is owner of A Way With Words, a business freelance writing and workshops.

Growth — and the fear of changes it might bring to this small college town — fueled the decision of most of those who filed to run for office. With the town’s population hovering at the 5,000 mark, Davidson is growing rapidly, with a 23% increase since the 1990 census. Dozens of citizens got involved in helping shape the town’s future growth, and McMillen and Williams were among them. McMillen’s involvement began a year ago, taking a lead in protesting the threat of new thoroughfares cutting through town and the outlying areas. Williams served on the citizens committee that spent a year developing the Davidson Land Plan and new zoning regulations to serve as an alternative for future development. The current town board recently approved both the plan and new regulations. The new board will have the job of trying to make sure the goals of the plan are pursued.

Ranking from page 1

Davidson’s strongest relative points, percentage of faculty with terminal degrees and percentage of full-time faculty, were given dramatically less weight, while one of its relatively weak points, class size, was given much more importance in determining this year’s ranking. Kelton says that the fact that Davidson is ranked relatively low in class size is also misleading because the class sizes considered by the magazine are 1-9, 10-19, 50-99, and 100+, while most Davidson classes fall into the 20-30 student range. In addition, tutorials and independent studies are not counted in the data.

The only other category (of the six U.S. News and World Report uses to determine ranking) in which Davidson fell was Financial Resources (27th in 1994 to 33rd in 1995), and this, Kelton believes, was due to a computational error on the part of the magazine. Financial Resources are determined on a per-student basis, and there are two factors the magazine uses to determine them: Educational program expenditures (80%), and other expenditures (20%). These two factors are comprised of four sub-factors or types of expenditure, but there are other factors in the total college expenditures which are not covered by the eight sub-factors the magazine used to find expenditure per student. However, once U.S. News and World Report figured the educational program expenditures per student, they took the total and subtracted it from the college’s total expenditure, saying they had come up with the amount of other moneys spent on students. But, the total expenditure of the college is not a compilation of the sub-factors the magazine used to determine per-student spending. The subtractive method the magazine used inflated the statistics of what Kelton believes to be about 2/3 of the schools surveyed because these schools had positive transfer funds, which means they did not initially cover their expenses. Davidson and other schools with negative transfer funds were hurt in the rankings by this error in calculation. Kelton believes that this error, when coupled with the change in weighting of the sub-factors determining faculty resources, was the entire reason for Davidson’s drop in the rankings.

RAINY BUT REGAL
Brandon Clarke

21? Not even in the rain. (Ah, Davidson.)

A SALON
A New and Exciting Place for Hair & Nail Services
20430-2 Norman Crossing Shopping Center
I-77 Exit 28, behind Wendy's
895-0404
20% Student Discount with Davidson College ID
*Please specify Master Designer when calling