_ SPORTS 16 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1995

Yeah, soccer! Deegan saves the day

By Will Bradshaw
Staff Writer

With four seconds remaining in the game and Davidson clinging to a 1-0 lead over the Furman Paladins in the Southern Conference men’s soccer final, Alex Deegan, Davidson’s senior goalkeeper and team captain, knew Brian Nickerson, a junior midfielder for Furman, would try to beat him to his left. It didn’t work, and Deegan’s diving save on Nickerson’s penalty kick sealed the victory for the ‘Cats, propelling them onto Bowling Green, the Mid-American Conference champion, for an NCAA tournament play-in game next weekend.

MEN’S SOCCER

“All the credit for that goes to Matt Hill [a junior goalkeeper who backs up Deegan]. He told me which way he [Nickerson] was going,” Deegan, who was named to the all-tournament team and voted most outstanding player, said. “He [Nickerson] made a penalty kick on Hill last year when I was hurt, so I knew which way to go.”

Furman was awarded the penalty kick after a Furman player fell in the top corner of the penalty area. Chad Lagerway, a junior defender, went in for a tackle against the opposing player, and was called for the foul. Pete Boylan, a senior defender who was close by the play, said that Lagerway was just playing hard, and 30 minutes earlier it would have been a no call.

Charlie Slagle, the Davidson coach, was also a bit baffled by the play, saying: “I’m not exactly sure what happened. I think the ref was on more of an edge after our penalty kick.”

Davidson’s goal had come 3 minutes before when Robert Clarke converted a penalty kick to break a scoreless tie in what was an evenly played game throughout. “We were fortunate to get the penalty kick,” Nick Troiano, a senior midfielder also named to the all-tourney team, said. “But then he made up for it [by giving Furman a penalty on a questionable call]. When he gave it, we said my God, it’s going to be tied, but then we thought and said we have Deegan in goal, and I was a little more relaxed.”

Slagle echoed that praise of Deegan saying: “If we had to make one [a penalty kick] to win it, or have him [Deegan] save one, I’d almost rather have him saving it.” And Phil Julien, a sophomore striker, called Deegan the best goalie he had ever seen for penalty kicks.

Clarke’s goal was set up when Ryan Northington, a senior midfielder, volleyed a ball that Furman had cleared back into the penalty area. Clarke perfectly timed a looping run through the Furman defense and ended up with a one-on-one opportunity against Furman goalie Ronnie Pascale. He touched the ball to his right, beating Pascale, and was taken down. Davidson was awarded the penalty which Clarke converted.

See Men’s Soccer on page 18

Rob Kosicki
Coach Slagle and MVP Alex Deegan celebrate.

Rob Kosicki
Cats strike back

By Matt Pitzer
Sports EditorFor the women’s soccer team, the revenge and motivation factors really hit home Friday night at the end-of-season conference tournament banquet, especially with Furman being called to the podium with the label of regular-season conference champion.

WOMEN’S SOCCER

“To hear Furman being called out as number one, that really got to us,” senior forward Claudia Lombard said. “If we could have played right after that banquet, we would have gone out and beaten them 10-0. We were so mad. We were so pumped up. We showed them who’s the best today.”

The score wasn’t quite 10-0, but the 3-0 shutout the Wildcats put on the Paladins to win the Southern Conference tournament title Sunday afternoon at Richardson Field was all the revenge Davidson needed.

“I really felt sorry for the other teams, because we knew that we would come out and kill them,” senior defender Shannon Lowrance said.

The win was especially sweet for Lombard, Lowrance, and Heather Wineberg, the three seniors who did so much in leading the program to titles in the first two Southern Conference women’s tournaments this year and last. And although Wineberg sat out this weekend with an injured knee, she was the one leading the cheering on the sideline toward the end of Sunday’s game, getting the rest of the team on its feet to make some noise.

Lombard scored three goals during the weekend, one on Friday and two in a 4-0 win over Georgia Southern in earning her honor as the tournament’s outstanding player. Lowrance was the leader of a defense that in four games and 390 minutes has still not allowed a goal in tournament play.

“The good feeling about today is that over the course of two games this weekend we played up to our potential and showed how good we could be,” coach Kevin Hundley said.

Aside from the obvious motivation of playing for the tournament title, the players all took special interest and pride in beating Furman and Georgia Southern, two teams that perhaps the Wildcats shouldn’t have lost to in the regular season. On Oct. 11, Furman beat Davidson 3-2 and the two teams played to a 2-2 tie on Oct. 24. And on Oct. 21, Georgia Southern eked out a 2-1 win over the Wildcats. A win in either of the Furman games would have given Davidson the regular-season title.

And so the entire 16-person team came together this weekend with only one intent. For these two days, they would be the ones out to knock off the regular-season champs after being the defending champion and the hunted all season long.

“We had everything to lose all season as the defending champions. Everyone would come out extra hard and try to beat us,” Lowrance said. “But coming into this tournament, we were the underdogs for a change and that took a little of the pressure off. We knew we still owned the title, we just had to prove it to everyone else.”

See Soccer on page 19