6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

The Dean Rusk Program Scholar

ae ethnonationalism

By Graham Ernst

Renowned author on religious studies Dr. Marty Martin of the University of Chicago spoke on the growing power of fundamentalist and ethnonationalistic movements in the current world climate. The Religion department and the Dean Rusk Program sponsored Marty’s speech delivered before a full house in the 900 room last Thursday night. President Kuykendall called Dr. Marty the “interpreter of our generation” after noting his background at the University of Chicago and his extensive work with the Christian Century.

Dr. Marty focused his speech on analyzing the effects of the growing bond between religion and ethnonationalism. He cited the current events in the former Yugoslavia, Rwanda, prospects in Afghanistan, Algeria, and the breakaway Russian republic of Chechnya as evidence of the problems inherent with the demise of “nations” and the emergence of “peoples.” Dean Rusk Program Director Jack Perry found particular interest in Dr. Marty’s point that the “power to kill” and the “power to heal” both emerge from the energizing power of religion which causes these “two faces of the same phenomena.”

For example, Chechnyan soldiers fight with a green ribbon tied to the barrel of their rifles. Although they fight brutally against the Russian forces, it is clear that the Chechnyan Muslim faith has served to unify all Chechnyans in defense of their republic. Dr. Marty also expressed reservations about the growing tendency of the media in the United States to stigmatize Islamic fundamentalist movements as evil. He compared this depiction of Islamic fundamentalists to the depiction of the Soviet Union during the Cold War.

Former Dean of Students Will Terry attended the event and took special note of Dr. Marty’s comparison of the rise of fundamental religious movements in the United States and similar fundamentalist movements in other parts of the world. When asked about former president Jimmy Carter’s impact on relieving some of the tensions in Bosnia, Dr. Marty praised Carter for his initiative, but he was pessimistic that the current ceasefire negotiated by Carter would last. Dr. Marty concluded his speech with optimism for finding solutions to ethnonationalist and religious conflicts despite negative reports from the American media.

This Week in Washington

Congeniality and cooperation break down in the House

By Andrea Short

Last Wednesday, Congress passed the first piece of the Republican’s Contract with America. The Congressional Accountability Act, which received only one “no” vote in both houses, requires Congress to adhere to the same employment laws that private businesses follow. For the first time ever, the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 will apply to members of Congress and their staffs. The legislation does allow members to practice one form of discrimination — members may still discriminate on the basis of political affiliation.

Seen as the least controversial part of the Republicans’ Contract with America, the legislation is expected to receive President Clinton’s signature within the next few weeks. Although subjecting Congress to the same laws as private businesses is a long overdue reform, these standards may prove costly. Despite the legislation’s obvious political appeal, it violates the Republican’s promise to cut spending. Now required to obey such wage standards as the minimum wage and overtime pay, Congress will need more money to implement the reforms. Creating another oversight agency to monitor and enforce compliance will also add to the legislation’s cost. Estimates for the next five years range from one to four million dollars of additional cost per year.

The Republicans also postponed the release of their plans to cut taxes until President Clinton announces his 1996 budget in February. While the Republicans claim they decided to wait to aid bipartisan spending cuts, the Coalition proposes to end federal taxes for a family of four earning less than $30,000 a year, to eliminate funding for the arts and public broadcasting, to eliminate the federal welfare program, and to cut off money to the Legal Services Corporation because it aids 200,000 people obtain divorces every year.

The most exciting session of the week, however, did not result in any legislation. On Wednesday, Democratic Representative Carrie Meek denounced Newt Gingrich’s highly controversial 4.5 million dollar book deal. Outraged by what he called personal attacks on the Speaker, Pennsylvania Representative Bill Clinger responded, “Gridlock has been replaced on the floor of this body by totalitarianism.”Pay of time and san cooperation, the Democrats speculated that the Republicans postponed announcing their plan because they haven’t determined how to pay for the promised cuts. A top Democrat on the House Budget Committee, Paul Sabo, speculated that the Republicans would “find it is more difficult and less complicated than they expected,” to cut taxes. Republican success, however, depends upon their ability to deliver their promises about the economy and government reform.

The Christian Coalition has announced it will embark on a massive lobbying effort to help realize the Republicans’ tax and sylvania Representative and long-time Gingrich ally Robert Walker demanded that Representative Meek’s words be stricken from the record. By a vote of 217-187, House Republicans succeeded in striking Meek’s words from the Congressional Record, but that vote only further enraged the Democrats. North Carolina Democratic Representative Melvin Watt denounced Republican tactics saying, “Gridlock has been replaced on the floor of this body by totalitarianism.”

Sources include: The January 18 and 19 issues of The New York Times, the January 18 issue of USA Today, and the January 19 issue of The Charlotte Observer.

MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 1995

Service: How can King best be remembered?

NOTES

“An important question lies at the center of the unfortunate feud between Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s family and the National Park Service. Are the heirs of the martyred civil rights leader right to fight the Park Service’s plan to build a visitors center honoring King? Would the family’s proposal for an interactive civil rights museum on the site be more in keeping with his legacy? Raising money in King’s name and naming structures in his honor are not unimportant. Money is needed to carry on his work. Structures that bear his name are material reminders of the man. But in comparison to the true depth of King’s legacy, the life he lived and the example he set for us to follow, they are the “shallow things” that King said would not matter. That we celebrate and emulate his attempt to “love and serve humanity” would be much more in keeping with the true meaning of his legacy.” - Reprinted from the January 16, 1995 Atlanta Constitution.

King’s dream

“In this, the 27th year since Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated, here’s what Freeman Bosley Jr., the first African-American mayor of St. Louis, has to say about racial integration in the United States: “Our schools and our communities are more segregated right now than they were in 1960.” Apparently, then, the United States will not herald the new millennium, as many dreamed in the civil rights-altering 1960s, by achieving an integrated, colorblind society, because the dream of integration no longer appears to be a popular American goal.” - Reprinted from the January 15, 1995 Birmingham News.

Special Ski Program Announced For Davidson Students And Faculty

We are pleased to announce the establishment of a special Davidson Ski Program which is being made available by New Winterplace Ski Resort. Davidson Students, Faculty, and Staff wishing to take advantage of this special ski program must present their Davidson identification card when purchasing lift tickets or renting ski equipment.

SPECIAL PRICES ARE:

Weekdays (Monday through Friday)
Lift Tickets
Rental Equipment (skis, boots & poles)
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. $16.95 $9.95
9 a.m. to 10 p.m. $19.95 $9.95
3 p.m. to 10 p.m. $14.95 $9.95

Saturdays, Sundays, Holidays
Lift Tickets
Rental Equipment (skis, boots & poles)
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. $31.95 $16.95
9 a.m. to 10 p.m. $38.95 $16.95
5 p.m. to 10 p.m. $19.95 $11.95

Compare these prices to our regular prices. Weekday 9-10 lift ticket and rentals would normally be $46.00, that's a 35% savings. Several affordable lodging packages are exclusively available for college students by calling Winterhaven Condominiums, located slopeside, at 304-787-3202, or Glade Springs Resort & Conference Center, just 8 miles away, at 1-800-634-5233.

Following a record ski season last winter, several off-season improvements took place including a major expansion of the Resort Center, 1200 pair of new Rossignol rental skis, a cafeteria tripled in size, a new restaurant, a new trail, and more! New Winterplace Ski Resort is located 16 miles South of Beckley, West Virginia, 1 1/2 miles from the Ghent Exit (Exit 28) on Interstate 77.

If you need additional ski area info, or need additional lodging information, call 304-787-3221. For latest snow conditions, call the Snow Phone 1-800-258-3127. Don't let the warm weather fool you! Winterplace has 15 trails and all chairlifts open! Our slopes average 36" of packed powder base. It's the miracle of modern snowmaking! Winterplace has more snowmaking capacity per acre than any southeastern ski resort!