NEWS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1995

Rob Kosicki

In the midst of work, students still find time for community

By ANDREW PRESTON
Staff Writer

Service programs at Davidson provide opportunities for students to help the community and the world in a variety of ways, from volunteer programs like Reach Out to financial assistance like the Bonner scholarships which allow students to pursue projects of interest.

Approximately 75 percent of Davidson students have been involved in a service activity at least once. Some of these projects include yearly events such as the Crop Walk and Project Life, the bone marrow drive.

Reach Out is the largest organizer of service projects, acting as an umbrella for many different projects. Members of Reach Out tutor children, recycle, offer free day care, and do the things that the community needs to function.

Director of Reach Out Samitha Dontamsetty says she volunteers because “I just love to help others because I have grown up helping others and feel a genuine desire to serve. It really completes your liberal arts education.”

A majority of Davidson’s service projects are local, but as Service Coordinator Catherine Turner points out, “Many students have combined the Service Program with the Dean Rusk Program and have traveled all over the world.”

Reach Out also organizes trips during breaks in the school year. Davidson provides the opportunity for some students to pursue service interests through the Bonner Scholarship program. Bonner scholars volunteer a minimum of ten hours a week and two hundred-forty hours during the summer. However, many students exceed the minimum.

As Assistant Dean of the program Ruth Pittard says, “The important thing is not the exact number of hours, but rather that each student accomplishes a certain goal.”

There are eighty-four Bonner Scholars at Davidson. Each student is allowed to choose his or her own project, and that project is evaluated and updated with the Assistant Deans throughout the year. The scholars benefit from the experience by having direct contact with staff members and the community, and sometimes gain some preparation for their career goals.

For example, students majoring in education can get experience as a tutor. Students interested in wide-ranging national and international issues have been able to travel throughout the country and the world.

In general, Bonner Scholars do not volunteer just for the financial assistance. As Pittard explains, “We see the Bonner Scholarship not as payment for volunteering, but as a way of allowing students who would have to work at a part-time job to be able to help the community. It is a way of freeing up those people who would like to volunteer but would not normally be able to.”

Cook adds, “These students are not here to brag about what they do. In fact, some students don’t want people to know that they volunteer because they don’t want a lot of praise.”

A calendar will soon be available to alert students of service opportunities and Reach Out will continue to post fliers throughout campus.

Patterson Court skits inspire freshmen women

By SALLY McMURRAY
Staff Writer

The second day of Davidson’s “Women’s Weekend” began at 1:30 on Saturday with a series of skits. Each of the three eating houses performed for a crowd of curious freshmen girls, in hopes of giving them a sense of what it means to be involved in an eating house at Davidson.

Warner Hall began the series of three skits by explaining first their unusual nickname, “Wappa Happa” as the manifestation of their vitality and spunk. They continued to describe their important commitment to community service, both in Davidson and beyond.

Warner Hall explained their parties with one member acting as a freshman, questioning a Warner Hall member. The two girls then “visited” each party. Warner Hall’s explanation of their two casual parties, “Crush Party” and “Oyster Roast,” were of great interest to the freshmen women, as the Warner Hall members explained them as great ways to get involved, make new friends, and meet guys.

Included in the Warner Hall party scene is the annual “Senior Men’s Champagne Party,” which involves Senior men, Freshmen women, and the ladies of Warner Hall only. The “Wappa Happas” ended their skit by boogying to “YMCA,” and showing their wild side by performing the Warner Hall dance to “Wild Women.”

Next in line was Connor House with their rendition of the “Facts of Life,” and “Entertainment Tonight,” including their own John Tesh and Leeza Gibbons. The Connor girls showed their style, and their love for having fun. Through their skits, they described how each new Connor girl, after self-selection next semester, will have her own upperclass “big sister” to show her the ropes. Following the pairing of freshman and upperclass Connor girls is “Screw your Sister Weekend” in which each girl finds a date for her sibling.

Rusk, the largest and oldest eating house on the Court, took the stage last. The “Ruskies” began by acting out some of their casual parties: “Cheeseburger in Paradise,” where all the girls eat cheeseburgers on the patio and jam to Jimmy Buffet; “Destination Unknown,” in which Ruskie big sisters fix up their little sisters with hot studs, keeping the date and final destination a secret; “Heaven and Hell,” and their annual spring “Longneck Redneck Party.”

Self-selection will take place the first weekend next spring. Freshman Ann Strauser showed much enthusiasm, saying, “They all look like so much fun! I don’t know which one to join!” Freshman April Edlin expressed a similar sentiment, “I feel like I know a lot about each house—their similarities and their differences. I really enjoyed them [the skits].”