_ OPINIONS "TUESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1995 7

A couple of years ago, I wrote an article for The Davidsonian about the Great Trustee Question. You know, whether or not trustees should be active members of a Christian church. I am now a couple of years older and, hopefully, a couple of years wiser. Having learned that a day when I don’t say, “yesterday, I was wrong about this or that,” is a day that I’m not being honest with myself, I’ve reconsidered my opinion about the Great Trustee Question.

In 1993, I thought that church (or synagogue) membership should be a Trustee requirement. It is now 1995 (I’ve finally gotten used to writing ‘95 on my checks and the new year is less than a month away... I hate that), and I have changed my stance on the church-membership requirement. There are two reasons for my change of heart. The first is a little ugly, so please forgive me ahead of time for being a big-mouthed, obnoxious, opinionated jerk.

Davidson is not really a very strong Christian institution. We say a lot of pretty words and puff ourselves up, but look around you.

Greg Garrison

Why I changed my mind

We go to a school that hands out free condoms, but refuses to sell tobacco products or treat smokers with a whole lot of respect. If you look into the Bible, you’ll find that it’s fairly consistent about casual sex but notably silent on smoking. I am personally pretty ticked about the school’s stance on cigarettes (although they’d surely cost at least thirty dollars a carton if they did sell them in the Union Cafe), but going to Cashion’s isn’t such a great inconvenience that I’d do an ideological about-face because of my weekly carton run. But I digress.

For good or for ill, who can honestly say that the historical church plays an integral role in the decision-making process around here? The meat of my change of heart really doesn’t have anything to do with casual sex or smoking or the church’s involvement in Davidson’s government, though. It has to do with a doctrine called Common Grace. Reformed theology, to which Presbyterians adhere, states that someone does not have to be a Christian to make sound decisions. The idea is that God extends a common, preserving grace to all of humanity, so that His hand and bits of truth can be seen in every culture and civilization. In other words, a doctor or a poet or a musician or a mathematician or a scientist or a parent does not have to be a Christian to be a good doctor or poet or musician or mathematician or scientist or parent. And a Trustee does not have to be a Christian to be a good Trustee.

There is practical evidence supporting this—according to Gallup, in America unethical behavior (which they break down into surprisingly specific categories) is practiced with approximately the same frequency among “Born Again Christians” and the rest of society. To bring it a little closer to home, I was recently talking to a good friend, and she was telling me that last year she asked all of the girls on her hall how many of them had hooked up on the Court since they’d been here. They all had at least once, except for my friend. I’m sure that some of those girls were Christians. My friend is not. By using this example, I am not trying to judge anyone for their behavior, but merely to provide an example that almost all of us can identify with, including myself.

Sound, ethical behavior and ideals should be the foundation for deciding who may become a Trustee. Having faith does not ensure the establishment of honorable, ethical, or intelligent decisions. Having honor, integrity, and intelligence does. I am not at all suggesting that we abandon Christian ideals. Rather, I am suggesting that we fulfill them, encouraging truth, mercy, justice, and honor. A school that allows people to seek truth but not exercise their understanding of it is neither merciful (for it demands ideological homogeneity), just (for it denies many who have learned here to have a voice in the education of the next generation), nor honorable (for its attitude toward alumni betrays its declared ideals of truth and integrity). All too often churches and governments become social clubs, rather than groups of people from both genders and every ethnic group who celebrate mercy and justice, bound together by love. I suggest that the Trustee board avoids being the former and strives to be the latter.

Chris Frampton

Voice - The last hurrah - (Providing all his core requirements come through)

I take on voices. It is the oddest thing. I have just heard Reynolds Price speaking on National Public Radio about the short history of the United States, and I am afraid that I can write no other way than he spoke. But I do not have my own voice. For years, too many really, I feel have been writing for this newspaper about school and beer and girls—not necessarily in that order. Looking at my old articles, I feel both loss and glee. So many words were written late at night in a fifteen-minute flurry of a clicking keyboard. Everything I wrote about I knew and I loved. Davidson has been a wondrous place for me. Davidson, unfortunately, has also been the site of my greatest failure. I was in college, but I was never, until this year, a student. In those articles I wrote what I knew. It is safe to say I knew little. I ran through the first years of my college career like a horse with blinders on. I was lightning fast, but I could see only where I was going. It was an oval track. By the time I saw where I had been in such a hurry to get, it was too late to go in a different direction. So this year I became a student. A new race has begun, and again I do not know where I am going, but I have already...Been somewhere and I hope not to return. Being a student is an odd thing, especially if you have never been one before. Perhaps, of all my difficult classes, Senior Colloquium has been the hardest. Strangely enough, I have kept up with almost all of my work. But I have learned little in that class other than that I have a lot to learn. What a lesson. And this is why I have no voice. When I write, I so often sound like the author I have most recently read that I wonder if I have any other skill than imitation. At some point, I’m afraid, I will have a voice, be it sooner or later. I will find my tone and pace and whatever else is needed, and I will like it. My hope, though, lies in the possibility that I could be wrong. I may never find that voice. I want always to be rediscovering the truth. I never want to pin down my emotions or build up my barricades. Instead, I hope new choices are always mixing themselves in my head, for being a student is like a drug. Once you start learning and really caring about it, you can’t get enough. A bookstore becomes a horizon, a classroom a haven. Perhaps, then, this is the luxury that Davidson provides for you, for learning is a luxury, Dr. Kuzmanovich: the possibility to know that there is always more to know. I hope it does not take everyone else as long as it took me to realize how blessed we are to go here. Do not worry that you are going in the wrong direction, but make sure you might not want to go another way. Have no regrets, and please, take your core requirements. I want to finish with two things. First, a quote from Jacob Bronowski in The Ascent of Man (1975): “It is important that students bring a certain ragamuffin, barefoot irreverence to their studies; they are not here to worship what is known but to question it.” And finally, a story: as I was copying that quote down in the Chemistry Building, I heard a squeal. “Holy —— (expletive edited)! Yes! Yes!” Glee, unrefined, unrequited, and absolute glee. A girl came in one hand and her fist in the other. She floated, really. What a sight.

Christmas from page 6 gives you an almost irresistible desire to pick the whole damn thing up and shake it. But then you remember, this is a mall you’re talking about, and you can’t bench your own weight. Reluctantly, you step inside. You cannot help but remember how even Dante had a guide. Seven and a half hellish weeks later you re-emerge (it has really only been three hours, but that’s in outside of the mall time. We're talking about the amount of time that Christmas shopping has sucked out of your life which is roughly approximated by seven and a half weeks). You are sallow, lifeless, utterly defeated, and not quite certain whether or not you are going to vomit. You look around. Other people are leaving the mall. They all have your dazed expression, as if they have been shopping in some over-crowded suburban gathering place with department stores. Oh wait, scratch that last sentence. Anyway, a streaker drives past in a small red car with “nuke gay whales for Jesus” painted on his chest. No one notices. You keep walking. You are hit three times by people that are too angry to stop, but that’s okay because you are numb to the pain. In fact, you are rather grateful because the jolt from each collision is just enough to make you remember that you actually are awake. You get to Hardees, and are so confused that you do the unthinkable and eat (there is a reason that there is a Hardees across the street from every major mall in America).

Does this sound familiar? I admit, I may have been a bit prone to hyperbole when writing this, but I am not far from the truth. Christmas shopping is one of the most stressful activities a person could possibly engage in, outside of being a Davidson college student, and what’s worse is you rarely leave these shopping sprees with gifts you are excited about giving to anyone important, but after you’ve been shopping for two and a half hours you don’t care. The paperweight in the shape of a watermelon is a marvelous idea, and an excellent example of craft making that anyone with a pulse or any sense of taste would be wholly unable to appreciate. So I say to you all, it's time for a revolution! Let’s keep Christmas the way it was meant to be, a relaxing holiday where we surround ourselves with the people we love, and give thanks to whomever or whatever we feel like giving thanks to. But, let’s leave the stress behind.

Let’s start giving Christmas presents all throughout the year. Imagine how nice it would be to receive a Christmas present in the middle of June. You could attach a little card that said “Merry Christmas. I just wanted to bring a little of me into your day. Love, (Your name here).” I think it would be awfully kind, and it would save everyone a great deal of unnecessary trouble. So let’s save Christmas, and put a little surprise back into gift-giving. This is an idea whose time has come. Viva Revolution. (P.S. — In the name of the honor code, I cannot claim this year-round gift-giving idea as my own. I ran across it in Maybe, Maybe Not by Robert Fulghum, of Everything I Ever Needed to Know I Learned in Kindergarten fame. And for all you people out there looking for the perfect gift, if there is anyone in your family who likes to laugh and can read I highly recommend this book.)

Sincerely,
Will Bradshaw ‘99