THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 1995

Who's Who publishes names of 43 Davidson senior leaders
By Sarah Teachworth

Here at Davidson, students can easily get the feeling that their life is nothing but an endless quest for a higher GPA. So it’s a welcome change of pace when students are recognized for their other achievements. Forty-three extraordinary seniors were recently selected to be profiled in Who’s Who among American Colleges and Universities.

Each year, Who’s Who allots a certain number of students they can choose to be represented in their publication over 1800 institutions. It is then the responsibility of the school to seek out those students most qualified for the honor. At Davidson, the Dean of Students office undertakes this task. Recommendations are taken from faculty, heads of student organizations, resident advisors, and others. The final decision is based on factors such as students’ leadership abilities, community service efforts, academic achievement, and potential for future leadership roles. The Dean of Students couldn’t have been happier with the list his office produced. Dean Shandley says, “It tends to show that this represents a diverse group of students that are considered outstanding.” Cat Grimmel says that “It makes me feel really good about the school that there are so many people active enough that there could be forty-three seniors represented in Who's Who.”

Sherry Abdelaaty
Eleanor Vincent Hatcher
John Miles Ramey
Robert Mills Ariail
George W. K. Hiatt
Leigh Taylor Rawdon
Issac Jerome Bailey
Christopher Lippett Hood
Mark Andrew Reilly
Julia Corine Barnes
Anna Rutherford Kirkland
Catherine Lee Rivenbark
Georgina Suzanne Burrows
Li Lin Lee
Eric Brien Rosenbach
Sean Christopher Callahan
Lorie Katherine Logan
Brent Jason Rudell
Alexander Herd Crumbley
Lisa Anandi Lyons
Annie Laurie Self
Phoebe Dean
Nathaniel William May
Andrew Brian Smitherman
Devjani Dev
Wendy Beth McHugh
Ellen Louray Sprinkle
Kelly Michele Dixson
Tene’ Nneka Moore
Milica Tomasevic
Halden Bradford Dougherty
John Hartman Murchison
Sara Etheredge Withers
Robert Joseph Feezor
Allen Porter Ogburn
Alison Kimbrell Woodward
Elizabeth Elayne Fleming
Sarah Hollingsworth Orsbon
Rachel Doryce Worlds
Arthur Lee Gaston
Leigh Antoinette Patterson
Catherine Jean Grimmel
John Harman Philpott

Two freshmen celebrate their selection of Warner Hall amidst a shower of champagne
by Rob Kosicki

Cornwell creates second writing scholarship
By Randy Hartwell

Few interviews have probably gone as well as sophomore Sean McGrew’s did with crime novelist and 1979 Davidson graduate Patricia Cornwell. The best-selling author decided to create an unprecedented award for McGrew’s writing after her 1993 meeting with him as part of the final selection process of the then newly established Cornwell Prize for Excellence in Writing. The Scarpetta Prize, as the award is called, was named for Cornwell’s imaginary principal character, Dr. Kay Scarpetta. It honors McGrew’s ability to synthesize skillful writing with a knowledge of science and technology, a quality that makes Cornwell a much-celebrated author. McGrew says of Cornwell, “What she liked about my writing was my conviction that [the ability to] write skillfully and clearly is a necessary tool no matter what field you’re in, whether you’re a biologist or a politician.” Cornwell intends to offer the prize, which carries an annually renewable award of $10,000, every year. Dr. Anthony Abbott, English professor and chair of the English department, says, “This prize, especially in combination with the Cornwell, will bring to Davidson a group of young writers whose presence will affect the whole campus.”

Freshmen self-select eating houses and fraternities
Select continued from page 1

issue of policy, it’s an issue of care.” One widespread rumor was that Shandley’s office would treat pledges’ streaking as a Code of Responsibility violation. This was not true. Shandley said, “We haven’t said anything about that. That has not come from this office.” Shandley stressed personal responsibility in regard to Self-Selection night. He says a significant problem had been that “people are not held accountable for their actions” which helped to perpetuate reckless behavior. He also said, “If bad things happen, people can’t continue to duck their heads in the sand.” Shandley is sympathetic to the pressures of pledging, especially hazing. He offers this definition of hazing: “The difference is if you choose to do that (a pledging activ-ity) or are forced to do that. If you are forced to do that, that’s hazing.” He also says, “If a student finds [a pledge activity] offensive, he has every right to bring a Code of Responsibility charge.” Holmes believes the cause of many of the rumors may lie in a letter written by Holmes and distributed to freshmen men and women on their return this semester. Holmes’s letter contained a general outline of permissible pledge and new member activities on one side, and Davidson’s definition of hazing and prohibitions on pledge activities on the other side. Holmes says partially in jest that students this year have read the letter more closely than in previous years, and that has caused some of the confusion.

No clustering for women

Not allowing freshmen women to cluster created its own difficulties. This meant some women entered an eating house feeling they knew no one in the house. This was a source of concern for many women Friday morning and afternoon, but after the festivities in the evening many women were optimistic. One freshman woman when asked if she had many friends in the house she had just joined said, “No. But I definitely think there are some potentially very good friends.”

House distributions; vast majority self-select

The distribution of freshmen women into the three eating houses was also an issue of concern. Many freshwomen were not placed in the house they chose first. The final tally showed that 71 women were placed in each Rusk and Connor and 42 in Warner. A total of 184 freshman women out of 228, or 80.7%, chose to self-select. One hundred thirty-four freshman men out of 220, or 60%, chose to pledge a fraternity. Twenty-three chose Kappa Sig, 12 KA, 20 Phi Delt, 7 Fiji, 17 Pika, 20 SAE, and 35 Sig Ep. As a class, 70.5%, or 316 of 448 freshmen, chose to join an eating house or a fraternity.

Although some administrative changes were made, activities on Self-Selection night were not very different from previous years. There was no lack of tradition. Fraternity pledges still let loose their exhibitionist sides, some several times: One pledge ran through Rusk twelve times. Women who self-selected into an eating house enjoyed champagne. Said one gloriously happy freshwoman, “Oh my God, all the champagne!”

Office of Academic Affairs

SPRING SEMESTER 1995

The Accelerated Learning Program...
...is a series of four “on target" workshops for Davidson students who are looking for ways to be more efficient and effective learners.
...takes only 75 minutes of your time per session.
...will meet in the BIG SCREEN ROOM,

January 30
IMPROVED WRITING: How to make a good paper (in any subject) even better.
CO-SPONSOR: RUSK HOUSE

February 6
BUILDING RAPPORT with FACULTY: How to approach faculty in class and afterwards.
CO-SPONSOR: PHI DELTA THETA

February 13
STUDY GROUPS: How to form and utilize a team approach to studying... (without violating the Honor Code).
CO-SPONSOR: TBA

February 20
STAYING RELAXED - The ABC's of it: How to spell R_E_L_I_E_F!
CO-SPONSOR: TBA

Professor Shireen Carroll
Professor Clark Ross
Professor John Kello and Professor Maurya MacNeil
Dr. DeWitt Crosby