THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, APRIL 3, 1995 11

Davidson’s foremost violinists play Vail Commons

Merrill, Parker, Scrivano, and Davis give spring recital with diverse program

By Jay Hupson
Guest writer

Four of Davidson College’s premier musicians were on center stage last Sunday night at Vail Commons. Freshmen Amanda Merrill and Elizabeth Parker, Sophomore Vidalia Scrivano, and Junior Emily Davis performed their spring violin recital. All four musicians study under the instruction of Davidson’s resident violinist Jane Hart, and they also play in the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra.

The program included music from the Baroque to the Romantic musical periods, including the works of composers Antonio Vivaldi, Johann Sebastian Bach, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Henryk Wieniawski, and César Franck. Each performer also played a few smaller pieces either solo or solo with piano. For the finale, all four instrumentalists teamed up and played Vivaldi’s Concerto in B Minor for Four Violins and Continuo. Clearly, this was the highlight of the concert.

Vail Commons proved to be extremely intimate — more so than either Hodson Hall or Love Auditorium. The four string players made the music more personal by performing on the same level as the audience. Although the acoustics of the dining hall are not that fantastic, and the occasional interruption of a printer from the Commons’ offices was disturbing, the area proved to be an excellent place to hold a concert.

The concerto has three movements: the opening Allegro, the middle Largo-Larghetto, and the closing Allegro. The allegro movements are faster than the slow largo. Each performer had a little solo somewhere in the piece, but the most enjoyable aspect of the concerto was the way the musicians interacted. The musicians played off each other, particularly in the more energetic and lively allegro movements. The four different parts intermingled to form a single cohesive, seamless whole. The quartet’s playing was very tight, and this was helped by the fact that the quartet communicated extremely well.

Overall the program was very well played, and it was a pleasure to listen to. The music was extremely difficult and definitely showed the caliber of these four musicians. The artists have been practicing for the whole semester, and their work has undeniably paid off. They can be heard again in the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra concert in Love Auditorium on Monday, April 24, performing the overture to Mozart’s Magic Flute, Symphony #45 by Joseph Haydn, and Edward Grieg’s Piano Concerto in A Minor. Dr. James Swisher, Davidson’s resident pianist, will join

---

Signing from page 10

nature, compared the play to “a fable” and a “metaphor for life,” acknowledging that the genre of science fiction had given Henley a certain type of “freedom” in how she chose to depict “the deadness of the world” and to what extent she could carry the social satire. Umberger described the genesis of Charlotte Rep’s Signature as “the biggest collaboration” with which he had ever been involved. There are elaborate sets and frequent scene and costume changes — not to mention the barrage of huge video screens, hallmarks of the desensitization of Henley’s characters and the distance technology has put between them.

The production had an interesting kaleidoscope effect, making the tragedies of these people into almost a freak-show carnival too surreal to be terrifying. Yet as outrageous and colorful as it was visually, the story itself was not compelling. Perhaps because of the larger-than-life presence of the video screens, the constant movement and swift changes in plot never allowed us time to care what would happen next. Imagine watching a two-hour MTV commercial full of disconcerting images, crazy plastic people, and subtle social commentary, and you’ll know what to expect from Henley’s Signature.

Write for The Davidsonian. Call Mary Clare, Jeff,Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

them in the Grieg concerto. Brian Parrish waits for his cue to spew. Watch out, Rosie! Still jumping and jamming over java in the Union Outpost... Brandon Clarke

St. Patrick visits Hodson
Roger Nelson’s one-act play explores the man behind the holiday
By DAVE WILLIARD
Staff writer

Distinguished scholar Roger Nelson performed The Confession of St. Patrick in Hodson Hall March 26. Set in the early 400s, the one-man play follows St. Patrick’s journey from Rome to Ireland and chronicles his attempt, as the island’s first Christian, to convert the Irish heathens. The play’s script is based on translations of St. Patrick’s fifth-century Latin text. Written around 450, the Confession is the first known Irish document. The text is Biblical in nature, and the main theme of the play is Patrick’s desire to do God’s will.

Nelson, who portrayed St. Patrick, is best known for his portrayal of John Wesley in The Man from Aldersgate, another one-act play which he has performed thousands of times in over 30 countries. Unfortunately, Nelson’s attempt at an Irish accent fell apart after the first five minutes. Also, the adaptation of the text to the stage seemed to have an overly literary feel and was presented in a confusing, compressed manner. Nelson tried to pull off some mood changes that at best seemed forced. Nevertheless, recounting St. Patrick’s confession in a single act is certainly a challenge, and Nelson did an adequate job (sans accent) with such limiting material.

Sculptured Nails * French Manicures * Pedicures * Tanning Booth
GET READY FOR YOUR FORMALS AT... THE DUCHESS!
Located at The Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St., Cornelius, NC 28031
(704) 892-7030 John, or Matt. -2148.

Professional Art Show
Glass Vessels: Fused and Blown
Stan Floate, Richard Eckerd, and Mark Bunch
Vitreographs: Glass Etchings
Herb Jackson
April 7th - May 31st.
Opening Reception: Friday, April 7th 6:00-8:00 P.M.
Tuesday - Saturday

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Boutique
5 — of Troy
10 Invalid
14 Bustle
15 Originated
16 Butterine
17 Arab VIP
18 Complaint
19 Gambling game
20 Defense Dept. headquarters
22 Disagree
24 Bakery item
25 Calumet
26 Not healthy, in a way
29 Something stored
33 Eisenhower or Van Doren
34 Make very wet
36 Moray
37 Mine entrance
38 Barely enough
39 Red
40 Hodges of baseball
41 Overact
42 Throb
43 "Able was I— Elba"
45 Time of year
46 Complex of stores
47 Word in Persian poetry
48 Songbird
51 Swelled out
55 Jar
56 Burn
58 Stem joint
59 Uppity one
60 Old instrument
61 — go bragh!
62 Alleviate
63 Leavening
64 Poor grades

DOWN
1 Pace
2 Headquarters
3 Norse god
4 Artist’s creation
5 Bargain
6 Flynn of old movies
7 Psychic's ability: abbr.
8 Most poor
9 Kind of cake or break
10 Swedish king
11 No more than
12 Crude person
13 The best
21 The best
23 — dixit
25 Dried fruit
26 Picture
27 Low point
28 Show pleasure
30 Kingdom
31 Metrical writing
32 Senior one
34 Show displeasure
35 Kind of bran
38 Children
39 Called upon
41 Birthright seller
42 Knitting stitch
44 Drink
45 Pick
47 Arithmetic word
48 Vile
49 Arm bone
50 Asian land
51 Ali —
52 Had on
53 Actress Adams
54 Lairs
57 Actor Marvin

---

This cleaned text maintains the original content and punctuation as requested.