OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 1995

Gull’s Nest: Bill Gullan

Differences are disturbing. Why are there squabbles between groups at Davidson? Why do we have trouble getting together to do things? There is a tension between unity and diversity, and the growing emphasis on differences is very disturbing.

First, each individual is unique. Everybody has talents and shortcomings. Each person should be judged separately on his/her own ability—that much is clear. Dr. King, whose birthday we have been celebrating, talked of people being judged by “the content of their character, not the color of their skin.” Such a method is the fairest, most humane, and most accurate way of evaluating people. Everyone has something to bring to the table, yet some distinguish themselves through their talent and personality. At this level, at least, I feel we can all agree.

I also think that we can all condemn the inhumanity of racism. I object to racism because it stifles the individual. People are pegged before they can show their stuff. People’s proclivities are predicted without any knowledge of their character. Racism may be evil or stupid, but, above all, it is premature. Other things that are premature include expecting fraternity men to act a certain way, assuming international students are a certain type of person, stereotyping South Carolinians, etc. The aforementioned mindsets have not had the devastating historical effect racism has had, but they originate from the same basis: that one need not take the time to get to know a person before assuming things.

It even happens to me. When I was a freshman, I had the reputation of being some sort of loudmouth, unfeeling, Rush Limbaugh, ogre. It is positively false, yet many who heard it, believed it, and expected things from me before I actually got to know them. I began to empathize with those whose group identity overshadows their individual uniqueness. To be treated as an individual is the most anyone can ask. I believe that blacks, women, and gays marched to be treated as individuals, not to simply secure greater rights for their groups. That is why it bothers me when group differences are emphasized.

How am I to know that after attending something like “Everything you always wanted to know about African-Americans, but were afraid to ask,” that answers to many questions would vary depending on what black person you ask? If I had stood up and asked what type of music black people like, would there be one answer? If I had asked what black people feel about taxes, would one response have been enough? Do all blacks vote for the same candidates, see the same movies, and read the same books? No. There is just as much disagreement on such issues within the black community as there is within any other. So why do we feel the need to separate people on the basis of what group they belong to?

If we think about it, we will all realize that friendship is based on shared experiences. I have great friends in my fraternity (we do many things together), from my freshman hall (we lived together), from my classes (we endured together), and from any other experience I might have had. I am more likely to be friends with the black girl with whom I muddled through economics than I am to be friends with simply a random person. There are many times when we celebrate our differences, and that is fine if we’re learning from each other. But, as Davidson students, aren’t we more likely to be friends with one another than we are to be friends with people who aren’t sharing this four-year (maybe five for me) chapter in our lives with us? There is more that unites us than divides us. To live together peaceably, we only need to tap into it.

Why then, is there a separate orientation for minority students? They are going to be taking the same classes as me, eating the same Commons garbage as me, weighing their social alternatives like me, picking up their mail from the same place as me, receiving mail from girls, parents, Duke Power, and Rose’s like me. I could go on forever, but the point is that we go through so many things together, why should we permit our administration to treat us as anything but individuals?

Holt Vaughan

Elvis lives. You see, Elvis is more than just a person. He is a god in many ways. People at Graceland make weekly pilgrimages to his property, pay their respects by singing his songs, look at the stained glass windows throughout his house, and they celebrate his “death” by placing flowers on his grave. This is only something you can realize if you ever have the opportunity to visit the holy place. Sure, everyone goes there skeptical, but everybody leaves a changed person.

You see, you visit and you look at paintings and movies of Elvis in his youth. You become mesmerized by his studly voice and moves from old news clips. You study his hair: how he parted it, and what kind of brush he used. You “ooh” and “ahhh” over his first glittering white jumpsuit. You visit his private racquetball court envisioning what grip he used on his forehand, and how quick his feet were. You visit the “Jungle Room”—decked with terry-cloth rug on the floor and ceiling. You see the tiger-striped couches.and parrot-feathered chairs. This is the room where he wrote many of his songs. If you listen close enough, you can hear his voice still echoing off the walls. You visit the Elvis Automobile Museum and look at his first Cadillac and the last car he used in a movie. You venture outside and see hundreds of Elvis impersonators dressed like him, talking like him, dancing like him, many believing that they are actually him. You see thousands of tourists piling into the trams for the $19.95 “deluxe” Elvis tour to see everything from his private airplane to his private bathroom. People file into the gift shops purchasing Elvis shot glasses, postcards, and boxer shorts. The tour guides are like walking games of Trivial Pursuit. “How tall was he?” “Six feet.” “What size shoe did he wear?” “Size 12.” You feel sorry for these people. How can they invest so much of their worries into the life of somebody that does not live anymore? “C’mon, buddy,” you say, “it’s all right for Halloween, but this is Christmas. Snap out of it. The guy’s dead.” Then everybody turns around and stops what they are doing. They stare at you like you’re crazy—like you have committed a sin. Or no, maybe it’s something different. Yes, I think it is now. The look is more of pity. They feel sorry for you, sorry that you cannot see the things they do. Or, even worse, you see the same things, but don’t want to believe them. You feel claustrophobic and pressured. So you slowly back your way out of the holy land. You back up past the Elvis Museum. You pass the people standing around in Elvis jumpsuits. You pass through the Graceland house. You pass the pictures of him that leave people in awe. You pass the people watching the last living horse that belonged to Elvis. You get a ride back on the tram and notice all of the different languages being spoken. People from all over the world have come to see the holy land. And then, you pass through the main lobby filled with Las Vegas lights and prices—just like the King would have liked it. People continue to walk past you, bumping your shoulders, running you over, and saying rude things to you if you get in their way. All they can see is the name “Elvis.”

Cracked Cymbals by Michael A. Slayton

“HONEYMOON SUITE’S ACROSS THE HALL!!!” Stephen Brackbill

Project Life hosts bone marrow recipient

At Davidson, we have a very special program that, statistically speaking, should not exist. The Project Life Bone Marrow Drive was founded just five years ago at Davidson, and it is already one of the largest student-led drives in the country. What makes our drive so unique, however, is not merely the number of participants but the number of ways bone marrow transplants have touched the Davidson campus. Project Life was founded by three Davidson students whose lives were saved by marrow transplants. In addition, four Davidson students have successfully matched. See Life on page 9.

...flashing on and off... on and off. Eventually, you are able to bully your way back to the overstuffed, awaiting college car with winter clothes, stereos, and skis. You jump in the Acura Integra, put it in first gear and lock the doors. Still, people keep pouring into the park from family cruisers, mobile homes, and vans. You drive down the driveway and see the “Welcome to Graceland” signs one after the other, one after the other. People drive by you camera-ready with their eyes and mouths wide open. You put your head down and keep edging your way out of the park. You eye Elvis Presley Blvd. and look for signs to the quickest way to the highway that will lead you out of this craziness and back to the safe parameters of your home. And you wonder if Elvis is still alive.

Robert Ramsay

Frustration and solicitation

During my term as opinions editor for The Davidsonian I have been impressed with the degree of effectiveness that this section of our paper has. Heated debate and intellectual discussion have been raised as a result of the views expressed on these pages. What impresses me even more, however, is the lack of assertiveness in members of the student body to publicly respond to opinions or to present their own. Some do, and these columnists comprise my staff: Ike Bailey, Rosie Molinary, Bill Gullan, Ken May, Holt Vaughan, Walt Barron, and a few others whose words we read week after week. I really should not have a "staff," though. Unlike news, sports, and arts, the opinions section is an open forum for debate in which anyone can participate. The time to develop our own opinions is nigh, and in order to truly believe them they must be tested. Write them down, put them in circulation for open discussion, and see what comes of it. I admire Alan Staggers for his courage in submitting the article about the Nation of Islam. I admire Ike for his relentless tackling of racial issues. I admire Eric Sapp for challenging the Commons. I admire the writers who have the guts to stand up for themselves. You have an opinion because you think and feel. So, do something to make the opinions section of The Davidsonian what it is meant to be—a catalyst for thought and cogitation.