ALENDA Che Wavtidsonian

LUX UBI ORTA LIBERITAS

VOLUME LXXXVI MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1995 NUMBER 19

Students held at gunpoint
Alyson Browett and Emily Halyburton accosted after Edwin McCain concert in Charlotte

By JAY JENNINGS
Staff writer

Davidson students Alyson Browett and Emily Halyburton were held up in a parking lot in Charlotte after attending an Edwin
McCain concert at City Fair on Saturday, February 11. The robber only got two dollars and a couple of rings,
but Halyburton and Browett both got a huge scare.

They both parked their cars outside of Carpe Diem, a restaurant in Charlotte where Halyburton works, five blocks away from
City Fair where the concert was held. They left City Fair at about two o’clock in the morning and started
walking to their car. When they reached the parking lot, a man on a mountain bike rode up to them
and said, “Well, well, well, what do we have here?”

Browett and Halyburton ignored him and continued to walk to their car. The man then threatened them with a gun
and demanded their money. They only had two dollars each, which seemed to antagonize the robber. Browett gave the man
her money. He then asked for their jewelry. Browett put one ring in her mouth and Halyburton hid a ring
in her back pocket, but the robber managed to get two other rings.

Browett says, “We were both completely calm.” He then asked for their car keys. They ignored his request and kept
walking to their car. The robber threatened to kidnap them and asked for the keys once again. Browett and Halyburton
continued walking, and the robber finally said, “Just get in your car and see Bullet on page 3.”

A Rob sneaks a shot of our insurance-less Patterson Court.
Rob Kosicki

By Mary CLARE JALONICK
News Editor

As treasurer of Phi Delta Theta, Steven Shames came upon a surprising fact. According to the books, his fraternity, like
the others, is paying around $5,000 a year for insurance. However, this insurance is based upon the stipulations that parties
are closed, guest lists are issued, and no kegs exist. According to Shames, now President of the Patterson Court Council,
“If you look at the insurance, we were all in violation.” This would leave the houses uncovered if an accident
were to happen.

However, upon probing deeper into the issue, it appears that the situation is not as bad as it seems. Patterson
Court Advisor Kurt Holmes says, “We need to juggle the good things against the bad things. We do a lot
to mitigate the problems.”

The Problem
Kegs do exist, and parties are open to anyone who wants to come to them. Many students cite this policy
as a factor in choosing Davidson, and many feel that closed parties would sour the flavor of the school. Guest
lists would improve the insurance situation, but at the considerable cost of student satisfaction on the Court. Holmes knows this
and wants to “manage all this the best we can without stifling the social life.” Holmes cannot remember a time
when “we have been sued” but describes our situation as “dodging bullets.” Hypothetically, if an intoxicated student see Coverage on
page 4.

SGA passes “health care" plan
Congress couldn’t do it; B.J. can

By Amy WHITMIRE
Staff writer

After much debate over the resolution’s format and wording, the SGA passed a resolution calling for...Better health services in the
Davidson College Student Health Center were discussed at the February 14 meeting of the SGA. The "Declaration of Rights," written
by Senior Class President B.J. Rudell and slightly modified by the SGA, contains both student requests for health service improvements
and students’ anecdotes about their experiences with the Health Center.

In the SGA meeting on January 31, the majority of the SGA Senators voted to return the declaration to Rudell
in order for him to add headings to each subsection of the document. SGA minutes for that meeting stated that
senators wished to “spell out specific expectations for each problem in the declaration in order to measure its success.” Rudell
accordingly created a summary list of rights that will be presented along with the rest of the Declaration to Student
Health Center Director Dr. David Staton, Dean of Students Tom Shandley, and the trustees. After sophomore Senator Nicola Hartery’s friendly
amendment, which slightly altered the wording of one of the headings, was passed, the SGA almost unanimously approved the resolution
with one opposition.

Although some students have been satisfied with their visits to the Student Health Center, the SGA’s “Declaration of Rights” will
hopefully lead to improved health services for all students and thus lead to increased confidence in the Health Center for
those students who have had problems with the Infirmary in the past. “I commend those people in SGA who spoke
out in full support of the document. I’m glad that we finally got it passed. We’ll take it to Dr.
Staton and see what he thinks. We’ve had even more complaints this week, and if we think it’s moving too
slowly we’ll talk to them about it. This is an issue that will come to fruition by the end of
the year,” says Rudell.

Reeves dodges bullets
"He was walking toward me with a big brown rifle."
By Matthew Errico, Assistant News Editor

Former Davidson student Mallory Reeves was nearly killed by the Chapel Hill law student who went on a shooting spree
and killed two people on January 26. The ordeal began as Reeves, who transferred to Chapel Hill from Davidson, was
returning from his 12:30 class on Thursday. He lives two miles from campus and has an arrangement to park his
car and store his bike at a friend’s house five minutes from campus. Reeves was riding his bike to this
friend’s house when he encountered the shooter.

As he rode down the street, a blue Honda came speeding back at him in reverse at an estimated 20
mph. From within the car, he heard the driver, a man, yell, “Don’t go down there!” Reeves thought it was
strange that he could hear the man shout since the car’s windows were closed, but Reeves assumed the driver was
having an intense argument with the woman in the passenger seat. Reeves continued to ride down Henderson Street, and 20
feet ahead of him he saw a man walking toward him with a big brown rifle.

See Law Student on page 2

Who do you like? Nominate your favorite professor for a teaching award. NEWS | 3

We’re Wildcats Students support the Crazy Cat club. OPINIONS | 8

Matt Lake finishes his 200 Gator Gumbo Prepare for Mardi Gras with the Cajun band. ARTS & LIVING | 10

CHAMPIONS Could the national pastime be rained out forever? Ask Scoon. Baseball SPORTS | 15
