THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1995

Che Mabidsonian
ALENDA’ LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
MANDY CURTIS
JEFF KENT

Opinions Editor
DAVID SANTSCHI

Copy Editors
ROBERT RAMSAY
TERESA WHITE

Arts & Living Editors
JACOB ABRAHAM
WILLIAM ROBERT

Associate Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
KATHERINE HASH
RUSS TARVER

Sports Editor
MATT PITZER

Advertising Managers
WALT BARRON
MARY CLARE JALONICK

News Editor
CAROLINE BYNUM

Photography Editor
ROB KOSICKI

Assistant News Editor
MATTHEW EIRICH

Circulation Manager
CRAIG MURPHY

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

So, YOU WANT TO ROOM TOGETHER
WHAT'S YOUR NEXT LOTTERY NUMBER?

NEAR LOTTERY 1995: Roommate SELECTION

LETTERS

Means to an end

Solidarity Week. Black History Month. Earth Day. Africa Week. The Year of the Woman. AIDS Awareness Week. International Night. As commendable as it is to recognize groups and causes by allocating time for appreciation, one must question the merit of concentrating that appreciation into a limited time period. Once the day, week, or year is over, what has changed? Certainly our education about black history should be continuous, and not merely a month-long process. AIDS Awareness unarguably deserves more than a week. And as the slogan says, “Every day should be Earth Day.”

But here we have a dilemma: How can awareness be maintained constantly? Think of Independence Day. Do we forget that America fought for its freedom against England and became a champion of individuality and hope every day other than July 4? Of course not — the Fourth of July is just the day on which we honor that history. The spirit of America’s freedom is so ingrained in our culture and such a part of our lives that it is never forgotten or minimalized; in fact, we value it so much that we choose to celebrate it on a certain date once a year.

So, in order to ensure the constant building of awareness and appreciation, the respective aspect of the culture must become an integral part of society. Is this happening, or would awareness be maintained without these dedicatory times? In other words, can a person be held accountable for knowledge of the present need at this point in our nation’s cultural development? At this point, no. The purpose of Solidarity Week, the Year of the Woman, etc., is to show that so much more could be done. For centuries, there has been a silent celebration of majority history, and events like Africa Week highlight the lack of actual attention we pay to extremely important, yet marginalized, elements of our society.

When they end, we cannot go back to business as usual, but we must move forward and advance the awareness past the limitations of a calendar of events. Solidarity Week will become Solidarity Month, Solidarity Year, and eventually — ideally — actual solidarity. We must use this ‘affirmative action” to better ourselves, our campus, and our nation. We must work toward a time when tributes like these are unnecessary.

Let’s clear some things up

To the editors,

I am glad that my article received such a response. I am only sorry that some people were not mature enough to do anything other than leave anonymous insults (I thought we were all more grown up than that). However, to those of you who called me, or anyone who thought about my article and what it actually said instead of getting all emotional — thank you.

I do need to start this second article with an apology. There was a typo in the title which I did not intend. I meant the title to be stated as a question, but as a joke with a friend who is a biology major, I removed the question mark. Then I forgot to put it back. I am not saying that I have changed my argument, but I did mean for there to be a question mark after the title, and I am sorry it was left out.

I also need to clear up a couple of misconceptions that seemed to appear about my article. First, I never claimed to prove Creationism; in fact, the word was never even brought up in my article. I do not feel that I have to present another scientifically acceptable solution to a question if I am simply stating that the one we have now is majorly flawed. I am also not denying that it is called the theory of evolution. It is not taught as theory, however, but as fact. That is the whole point of my last article. The “theory” is taught as fact and the problems with theTheory is left out when it is taught. To me, that is not scientific. To quote from the Campbell biology book (the book used in some intro biology classes at Davidson): “Evolution refers to the processes that have transformed life on Earth from the earliest form to the vast diversity that characterizes it today... evolution is the most pervasive principle in biology, and a thematic thread woven throughout this book.” Later this book goes on to discuss the “theory” part of evolution: “The conclusion that life has evolved is based on historical fact.” Now I don’t know about you, but that does not sound like it is being taught as just a theory. There is a great deal more describing the accepted “truth” behind evolution in this book. I think that anyone reading pages 420-436 will reconsider the argument that evolution is only taught as a theory.

A number of people concentrated on my argument about the Second Law of Thermodynamics, and I heard a large number of decent arguments against it. I also had an enlightening conversation with Ken May, and he gave an interesting argument, questioning some of my sources. To the question of my not stating all my sources or not addressing all the arguments in their entirety, people must realize that I am not writing a paper. I am writing an article, and therefore I cannot go into incredible detail on each argument. The arguments that I gave were all counterarguments to evolution. I will admit that some are better founded than others. However, I do not think that any of them should be deprived. There is always some chance that they are right.

Sure, Eric, but just because an argument is possible doesn’t make it right. I will grant that I may have come across as too sure of my arguments, but that has been my point the whole time. Evolution is being taught as fact by our books, our society, and most of our teachers just because it is possible and we don’t have anything better. I know that some teachers present evolution truly as just one of the theories; hats off to those teachers. That is exactly what should be done.

See Evolution on page 8

Keep it up, Crazy Cats

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

All of us hear and know the Crazy Cats. They are very good people. They are well-intentioned. They care about their classmates and their schoolmates, male athletes and female athletes, fall sport, winter sport, or spring sport. We hear their voices of support, and this inspires our team. It creates an environment of excitement in the Belk Arena for all of us. In team competition, like basketball, where you have the opportunity to play offense and defense, a major part of our objective is to disconcert our opponent. We are thankful and grateful to the Crazy Cats for lending their support in that process.

The opposing arenas in this conference are dens of verbal abuse and taunting from every nook and cranny. You would have to share a seat with us on the bench or watch and listen to a replay of any game to understand the kind of abuse that we receive on the road. We do not condone that kind of behavior nor do we encourage our own fans to support us in such a way. We believe that we have something very special and unique here at Davidson. However, we do believe that getting an opposing team’s attention is part of the process of giving your team a home court edge. We understand that our fans want to see an excellent performance and applaud such excellence. We also recognize that our fans want to see the Davidson Wildcats win. It’s not a desire to win at all costs, but at the cost of investing one’s heart, soul, lungs, voices, and hands to that very vital process of support. Very clearly, we want fans, not spectators. Thank you, Crazy Cats, for being such great fans.

Sincerely,
Davidson Men’s Basketball Team