_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

Habitat still going strong

By Brooke BAGWELL
Staff Writer

The Habitat for Humanity project is progressing successfully according to the group’s chief organizers. Since last week’s rally, the grand
total of money raised has risen to $19,181.96.

The house is scheduled to break ground in January, and Coordinator of Community Service Catherine Turner expressed the group’s desire
to raise $20,000 by Christmas. Habitat hoped to bring in money through its involvement in Sunday’s Alternative Gift Fair and
Christmas Vespers service. Proceeds from the Habitat booth at the gift fair and the vespers offering will go toward fundraising
efforts.

Amy Hawfield, Chair of the Fundraising Committee, expressed her personal enthusiasm with Habitat’s progress and noted that “people are getting
excited about the project.” Indeed, the college and community have responded positively with approval and support.

Individual monetary contributions are still underway. Sharon Leahy in the Residence Life Office can accept donations directly, or money can
be given to hall “hammerheads.”

In addition to raising money, Habitat is now also focusing on recruiting volunteers to help with the actual construction of
the Davidson Habitat home. Volunteer sign-ups are located in the Union pit, the Union basement, and the library. An information
center and book display on Habitat for Humanity is also located in the library.

Freshman Ian Campbell admires the Lego House at the Habitat for Humanity rally.

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1995 3

Rob Kosicki

Unionmas

from page 1

low formed a sea of flickering flames toward which Santa made his descent. As he dangled in mid-air, Santa flung
candy canes into the darkness, causing many onlookers to jostle and reach for the airborne treats, while trying not to
drip the hot wax of their candles on the surrounding crowd.

Although many students’ hands were occupied with cider, hot chocolate, and cookies, Santa’s landing touched off a scattered round of
applause. Moments later, Santa’s better half, Mrs. Claus, appeared atop Chambers and rappelled down into Santa’s open arms as countless
elves pranced through the crowd or clung for dear life to the back of a speeding golf cart.

The Claus’ appearance was just one highlight of Davidson College’s annual Christmas celebration, sponsored by the College Union Board.

Freshman senator Jonathan Sipling concurred: “I think it is great that Davidson is a place where the festive and religious
aspects of the holiday can be enjoyed together. The singing, hot chocolate, nifty golf cart driving, and lighting of the
trees more than made up for my belief, held ever since childhood, that Santa always arrives by means of flying
reindeer.”

The Davidson College Chamber Singers performed from Chambers’ front steps, providing the festivities with musical leadership. The Chamber Singers guided
the crowd through such well-known pieces as “Frosty the Snowman” and “Hark the Herald Angels Sing.” Senior Josh Wood, President
of the Chamber Singers, told the story of Jesus’ birth, after which the Singers led onlookers in “Silent Night.”

The Union Christmas party kicked off at 8 p.m. in the 900 Room, with a well-attended back-to-back screening of “The
Grinch Who Stole Christmas” and “A Charlie Brown Christmas.”

The celebration then moved outside, for Santa’s visit and the traditional Chambers tree-lighting ceremony.

According to issues of The Davidsonian in 1935, five years

Friday, December 15

Saturday, December 16

THERE WILL BE NO EXAM PERIOD ON

Monday, December 18
Tuesday, December 19
Wednesday, December 20
Thursday, December 21

NO AFTERNOON EXAM PERIOD ON
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 21

Morning

8:40 a.m. - 12:15 p.m.
8:40 a.m. - 12:15 p.m.

EXAM SCHEDULE

Afternoon
1:40 p.m. - 5:15 p.m.
1:40 p.m. - 5:15 p.m.

SUNDAY, DECEMBER 17

8:40 a.m.
8:40 a.m.
8:40 a.m.
8:40 a.m.

12:15 p.m.
12:15 p.m.
12:15 p.m.
12:15 p.m.

1:40 p.m. - 5:15 p.m.
1:40 p.m. - 5:15 p.m.
1:40 p.m. - 5:15 p.m.

days with Christmas carols played by a brass band on Chambers’ balcony. Over the band members' heads, however, dangled not
Santa Claus or his wife, but a “beautiful Moravian Star which was made in Germany.”

Union Board President Morgan Perry confirmed that an annual outdoor celebration has long been a part of Davidson holiday tradition.
However, she remarked, it was not until “the creation of Davidson Outdoors that someone came up with the idea of
Santa Claus rappelling down the front of Chambers.”

According to Davidson tradition, as Tuesday evening’s festivities drew to a close, and students’ candles began to melt into dangerously
short stubs, the two trees on either side of Chambers’ poset?
