4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Columnist speaks about technology, government in 900 Room lecture

By ANDREW PRESTON
Staff Writer

Nationally syndicated columnist and journalist Richard Reeves spoke about “1996 Updates” in the 900 Room Tuesday night. Reeves covered many
topics in his speech, including technology and the government.

One of the major topics Reeves addressed was technology. He pointed out that “90 percent of the medicine today wasn’t
available in 1950.” The problem with this is that social security, medicare, and medicaid cannot handle the cost to provide
such technologically-advanced medicine. Not only does the cost of medicine cause problems; so does the fact that “people are living
longer, healthier lives, and these systems can’t handle it.”

The U.S. Government was another major topic. Reeves stated that technology allows the government to be more thorough in its
polls and has created a new breed of politicians who rely on numbers. He explained that the president has less
power than in previous years because technology allows the public nearly as much information as the president. “Sometimes the news
broadcasters know information before the FBI and the president,” Reeves said.

As for Clinton’s presidency, Reeves said he was “even less prepared than most new presidents, not that anyone really is
prepared.” Reeves believes that Clinton needs a more organized plan or format. Clinton is known to “go to bed with
one opinion and change his mind in the morning,” he said. Clinton has good instincts but is vulnerable to criticism
and believes greatly in the polls. Despite his faults, though, Reeves predicts that Clinton will be re-elected because “he has
great political skill and is the least objectionable alternative.”

A short question and answer session followed the speech. One member of the audience asked if Colin Powell would run.
Reeves said he would not, simply because it would be too difficult, not due to race but because “he was
raised in New York City and still thinks like a New York politician.” A second question asked was whether there
would be any strong third-party candidates. Reeves said that there probably would be, and in fact that Clinton needs one
of these candidates to win because “it is doubtful that he can get 50% of the vote, but with a
strong third party he could get the most votes.”

Reeves graduated from Stevens College with a degree in engineering but says “less than three years after I earned my
degree, Texas Instruments sold everything I knew for $10.” Reeves added that he was offered a scholarship to Princeton, “but
my girlfriend wouldn’t let me go because it was too far away.” Reeves lived 40 miles from Princeton. A prominent
journalist, Reeves has won an Emmy and other awards for work in his field. Currently, Reeves has two newspaper columns
in the New York Herald Tribune.

Crop Walk raises over $3,000

By ANDY ARMSTRONG
Staff Writer

Approximately 120 Davidson students, faculty, and townspeople came together to walk to reduce world hunger on Sunday, October 15. The
event was organized by Kristina Taylor, with help from Rachel Anderson and Smita Donthamsetty. Though official numbers are not available,
the organizers speculate that the amount raised was well over $3,000.

Registration began at 1 p.m. on what many thought was a perfect afternoon, and though the walkers were to begin
at 1:30 p.m., many of the overzealous walkers began at 1:15 p.m. The 10k walk began on the Town Green,
where it also ended. Of the 120 people participating, approximately half were Davidson students, staff, and faculty. Several area churches
helped to recruit volunteers from the community. The turnout was higher than organizers had expected. Those walking ranged from the
very young to the very old.

The money raised serves two purposes. Three-fourths of the money raised will go to the Church World Service Organization.

The New Age HAIR DESIGNERS

A full-service salon for men and women

Come in for any of our many services:
cuts * perms * hair-coloring * manicures * pedicures

Right now, Davidson students and faculty receive 10% off all retail items with a school I.D. We now carry a
new line of retail products by Abba. Also select from aLine of Paul Mitchell, Matrix, Logic, Nexxus, Sebastian, and Goldwell
products: hairstyling products. Southlake Shopping Center, next to Harris Teeter, Cornelius, NC - 892-3067.

Church World Services Organization is a group comprised of 30 to 40 denominations around the world which helps to provide
food and shelter for Third World countries. From there, 83.9 cents per dollar raised goes directly to aiding Third World
countries. The remainder of the money raised will stay in Davidson and go to the Senior Nutrition Center at the
Ada Jenkins Center. Though the turnout was better than expected, organizers are already thinking of ways to improve next year's
event. As one walker, senior Dave Thompson, said, “It was an enjoyable time spent with friends for a good cause.”

Write for The Davidsonian. Call the kid, El Jefe, Cope, or Schoon at -2148.

FREE TRIPS & CASH! Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with
America's #1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL TAKE
A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL NOW! (800) 95-BREAK!

Only 36 percent of those accepted. As a result, 45 students were accepted off of the waiting list, compared to
one for the Class of ’98.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1995

NEWS BRIEFS

Seen and heard
“Being the cynic that I am, I don’t trust any administrators, and I don’t think they should be trusted. I
think they are running their own agenda and not the students’ agenda,” the SGA Chancellor said in a rare moment
of candor in the SGA.

Admission statistics
There were more applicants for the Class of '99 than ever before, and they brought with them the highest test
scores ever. But all is not necessarily well. The Office of Admission experienced a six percent drop in yield last
year. Yield represents the percentage of accepted students who choose to enroll at Davidson. In the last 10 years, the
yield has been between 45 and 48 percent. The Class of '99 enrolled only 36 percent of those accepted. As
a result, 45 students were accepted off of the waiting list, compared to one for the Class of ’98.

Money watch
The SGA appropriated $560 to the Public Relations Committee which is sponsoring the second SGA day on October 26. SGA
Day events will include a cookout on the Union patio from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., the third town meeting
of the year covering academic affairs, a video about the SGA to run on DCTV, and the distribution of an
SGA newsletter. The allocation was approved unanimously. The SGA also approved unanimously $200 for the as-of-yet unscheduled Freshmen social. The
SGA allocated $150 for a reception after the candidates forum to be held on October 30. The approval was unanimous.

CCRL appointments
Senior Peter Varney, Junior Seth Clippard, and Sophomore Humes Franklin were appointed by the SGA to fill the three vacant
spots on the Council on Religious and Campus Life. The Council is composed of faculty and students, some of whom
are elected, others appointed, and still others by virtue of their holding some other office. The three were approved with
two oppositions and nine abstentions.

Campus Police becoming more sensitive
In response to African-Americans being stopped on campus, a committee has been established to work with the Campus Police on
the situation. The Campus Police have begun sensitivity training as well.

Athletic Director search
The field of applicants to replace Terry Holland as Athletic Director has shrunk from 90 to 10. The finalists will
be on campus in the near future for interviews.

To celebrate the Frederick Douglass Centennial, Dr. Waldo Martin, Jr., will speak on Thursday, October 26, at 7 p.m. in
the Gallery. Also, attend the film Frederick Douglass: When the Lion Wrote History, Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in Chambers 211,
followed by a discussion led by Professor Barbara Ballard.

Treat Yourself Today!
Sculptured Nails • French Manicures • Pedicures • Tanning Booth
At The Duchess we offer you a day of stress-free pampering.
Tanning Special: 10 visits for $33.00
New addition to our store: Facials by Peggy
CONNIE AND MICHELLE: a Set of Nails for only $40.00 (thru February)
Located at the Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St., Cornelius
(704) 892-7030
