4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1995

Remembering Dean Rusk
By Mary Laura Moretz
Staff writer

"You will not have many dull moments in the decades that lie ahead. I shall not be able to go with you on that journey, but I have no doubt about how it is going to come out. You are going to make it. In any event you carry with you the best wishes and the blessings of an old man.” So spoke Dean Rusk, Class of 1931, when he last visited Davidson in 1985.

On Monday, February 20, the Davidson College community will have the chance to celebrate his memory and give thanks for his service to his country and his alma mater. The memorial service will be held at 4 p.m. in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. President John W. Kuykendall will lead the service, and the Davidson College Choir will sing a selection from Mozart’s Requiem. Rusk’s son, Richard Rusk, will also speak at the service. Jack Perry, Director of the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies, will make additional remarks. Among the hymns will be the Battle Hymn of the Republic, a favorite of Rusk’s and one he requested to be sung at his funeral.

“We are indebted to Mr. Rusk. I'd like to think that the Dean Rusk Program takes its inspiration from the kind of person he was,” says Perry. According to Perry, when the college offered to honor Rusk, he replied, “I don’t want another tombstone, but I’d like a program to reach the students.”

The members of Rusk Eating House will sit together at the memorial to honor the man for whom their organization is named. Rusk President Holly Kledis says, “We take pride in our name because of him. He meant a lot to Davidson, and of course he means a lot to Rusk House.” The memorial is open to the public, and all students are invited.

Week promotes solidarity
By Mary Clare Jalonick
News Editor

In conjunction with Black History Month, the Union has scheduled Solidarity Week in an attempt to recognize the diverse forces that pull the campus, as well as the country, together. Speaking for the Solidarity Committee, Phoebe Dean says that “instead of focusing on diversity we are trying to emphasize bringing different groups of people together.”

From February 10 to 19, Solidarity Week will include contributions from all sides of Davidson. Art displays, performances, speakers, and bands will entertain the campus. This year’s theme is “American Graffiti,” for the committee felt that domestic issues have been a major concern. Highlights include Reverend Percy Reeves’ talk about integration and the future of the church, a “Gator Gumbo” Cajun band, a forum on affirmative action, counselor Dr. Bob Barrett’s talk about AIDS, Washington Post columnist William Raspberry’s talk about building community, the weekend women’s retreat, and an all-male a capella gospel singing group.

Solidarity Week was begun in 1986 by the Union Board in response to a Ku Klux Klan march down Main Street in Davidson. According to Dean, “The outraged community started Solidarity Day, which focused on building community.” It has since evolved into a week. Dean is pleased with the timing. “We have an AIDS speaker as a follow-up to the Quilt, and women’s month is March.”

More from page 1

Davidson’s low student-faculty ratio means that a few extra students can make a big difference. Each extra person equals four extra classes, so five extra people would be 20 classes. It is easy to see how little it takes before a fill-in professor must be hired,” says Terry.

Additional students also require additional housing. Terry is anxious that, like this year, there will be another room shortage next year. This year, although RLO set aside extra rooms for overflow, some freshmen roomed in triples. If the extra rooms are not used, they will go to upperclassmen on the waiting list. Some rising sophomores could find themselves without housing. “I don’t want to cause a big scare here, but it is possible that some rising sophomores will be forced off-campus,” says Terry. He acknowledges that due to the housing crunch, more people will receive off-campus housing permission this year than in the past. RLO must decide right now which dormswill house freshmen based on the estimated occupancy. Terry says, “It would be great to know exactly how many freshmen we have before the upperclassmen get their rooms. We don’t know about the incoming class until May, and the other students leave then. Therefore, we have to estimate. What we are facing now is a cumulative effect. If this year’s class goes beyond the target, we must replace this year’s senior class with more students, leaving three large classes.” The Classes of ‘95 and ‘96 have around 400 students apiece, while the Class of ‘97 has 450 students and the Class of ‘98 has 460. The target number for the classes of ‘97 and ‘98 did not change, but more people decided to enroll than expected. Terry cites Davidson’s number eight ranking in U.S. News and World Report as part of Davidson’s success. “We are hotter than ever nationally,” he says. Despite the growing number of applications, Davidson intends to keep the 1,600 cap on the student body, according to Dean of Admissions Nancy Cable Wells. Also, she doesn’t see the new financial aid restrictions as significant to the population. “There were the same amount of students who qualify for need in this year’s class [‘98] as in previous years. This year’s applicant pool looks more diverse than ever. Compared to last year, this applicant pool shows a 14 percent increase in minority applications, with the most significant increases in African-American applications: 52 percent. The numbers for women and men are almost identical: 1,513 men and 1,531 women. Cable Wells says that she will work to bring the best class to Davidson next year.”

CRUISE JOBS
Students Needed! Earn up to $2,000+ per month working for Cruise Ships or Land-Tour companies. World Travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Seasonal and Full-Time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call: Cruise Employment Services (206) 634-0468 ext. C53631

Rob Kosicki’s Rusk House honors its distinguished namesake.

Project Life appeals to heart
By SARAH TEACHWORTH
Staff writer

It’s nearly Valentine’s Day, and lovers everywhere have completed (or nearly completed) the task of finding a gift for their significant others. For a few moments of time on Valentine’s Day, students can give the gift of life. On Tuesday only, between the hours of 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. in the Morrison Room, Red Cross nurses will be on hand to accept volunteers for the Project Life drive. Students can come during the designated time period and fill out a few forms. The nurses will then take about two tablespoons of blood to be sent to the National Bone Marrow Registry to be typed. The results of the typing will be stored in the registry’s computer bank. Students will be contacted if their type matches a person needing a bone marrow transplant. At that time, the donor has the option whether or not to go through with the operation. Chances that any individual will match are extremely rare, and for this reason, it is important that as many as possible are typed. In the past four years, Davidson’s Bone Marrow Drive has been extremely successful, with over 1,500 students joining the effort. When adults and children suffer from diseases such as aplastic anemia, leukemia, and breast cancer, bone marrow transplants are their only hope for survival. There is only a one in four chance that patients will find a match within their family. If a search has to be conducted outside the family, the probability of finding a match drops to one in 20,000. The registry is especially in need of minority samples, which constitute an extremely small percentage of their data bank. If civic duty alone doesn’t convince students to participate, there’s a chance that Project Life incentives will. Any freshman hall with 100 percent participation will be entered in a raffle to receive a VCR for their hall.

Collegiality. We understand that word at Austin Presbyterian Theological Seminary. Here, we learn together, play together, worship together, and work together—faculty and students, administrators and visitors. And Eleanor Cozad Cherryholmes, Director of Vocations and Admissions, doesn't lose track of students she recruits. She is always available to listen and advise, laugh or cry with them. Come to Austin Seminary's Prospectus Weekend for prospective students March 3-5, 1995, and begin to experience Southwestern collegiality. Call 1-800-777-6127, or write 100 East 27th Street, Austin, Texas 78705-5797.