THE DAVIDSONIAN | MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1995

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
MANDY CURTIS
JOHN COPENHAVER

Arts & Living Editor
KATHERINE HASH

Business Manager
ROBERT RAMSAY

Assistant Arts & Living Editor
TERESA WHITE

Operations Manager
JOSHUA BUCHANAN

Associate Editors
WILLIAM ROBERT
RUSS TARVER

Sports Editor
MATT PITZER

Advertising Managers
MEREDITH BENKE
ANDY BOSWELL

News Editor
MATTHEW EIRICH

Photography Editor
ROB KOSICKI

Circulation Manager
TED PENICK

Assistant News Editor
JOANNA JOHNSON

Assistant Photography Editor
BRANDON CLARKE

Editorial Cartoonist
CHRIS MOORE

Opinions Editor
JEFF KENT

Copy Editor
LAUREN FREEMAN

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

The Morning After

As much as we rant and rave about change, sometimes change is deleterious. If one mistakenly has sex without a condom or other birth control device, or the birth control device used fails and the female partner fears she is pregnant, the world can suddenly come to an end for once happy college students. In the past, these students could take some respite from their anxiety knowing that the Student Health Center could provide a “morning after” pill in the event of such emergencies. This fall, however, the Student Health Center decided to discontinue the service. Students must now go through the Center and get a referral to doctors not associated with the college. The previous question is “Why?”

What if the woman was raped? Why should anyone have to go through the traumatic hell of dealing with more than one clinic when Davidson’s own should suffice? Yes, some students, parents, faculty, staff, and doctors believe life begins at conception and that the “morning after” pill is a euphemism for a quick abortion. But others disagree or are not bothered by the termination of a pregnancy. The availability of an option is better than no option at all. What statement does this make about the Student Health Center and, more broadly, about Davidson College? Are we too afraid of unwanted pregnancies to acknowledge their existence? Are we too afraid of the possibility that the college might be condoning casual sex? Regardless, through this policy adjustment, Davidson is implicitly putting itself in the position of legislating morality. And we know that is not the college's intent.

Davidson’s own Health Educator wants this service reinstated. Why hasn’t it been? Who makes these decisions? Once again, the students weren’t asked.

ALEX MAVE IT WITH STUFF THAT WAS JUST LYING AROUND, STUFF THAT WASN'T MORNING AFTER PILLS, MINORS SURVEYS, THE ATC SLUSH FUND... BY THE WAY, RVGH, ALL YOUR HELP. THANKS FOR BEING USED.

LETTERS

The meaning of life found here

To the editors,

When I attended a Davidson gathering for students studying in England, I was disgusted after reading Britton Taylor’s opinion article on what the meaning of life was all about. I have never been one to speak up in class, or even write a letter to The Davidsonian, but it was about time I did, even if I am in England and away from Davidson.

Britton’s main point seems to be that there is no way that anybody could ever figure out the meaning of life, and even God himself doesn’t know the answer. Hey, now there is a deep thought if I have ever heard one. The meaning of life is a self-awakening or an inner quest for one’s true identity. If there was no meaning to life, why would our Creator have even put us here? Life has a purpose and it is up to the individuals to struggle between himself and his society in order to find his own spirit. This might be referred to...As just the maturation process, not just the “sexual maturation” process as Britton seems to joke several times. When we arrived at Davidson, many of us hoped to fit in and be “cool.” Most people found it easy to join a big group (like a fraternity or their hall) to associate with and conform to the group’s identity so they didn’t have to be judged individually. But as we experienced living with people from around the world at Davidson, the group mentality eventually breaks down (but for some people it hasn’t!). This is the time when you really question who you are and who you want to be. It is a time when you assess your strengths and weaknesses as a person, question your values, and begin to enjoy who you are. With a bit of confidence, you can set your goals and face anything in the world. Everybody has their own version of their meaning of life because we are all individuals on this planet. I hope that all of you at Davidson come to reach a level of maturity as a person when you finish your time there. Eric Sapp put it nicely in his article (I actually agreed with him for once!) that Davidson builds not only a student, but also an individual. I hope that you will realize how much Davidson really does for you while you live in the Davidson community. Best of luck to all Wildcats from the U.K.

Sincerely,
DJ Allan ‘97

Pay attention to our parents

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

The stomach is full. The refrigerator is stocked. The laundry, clean (not to mention the room). Our parents have come and gone. Am I the only one on this campus who genuinely gets excited about parents’ weekend? I don’t care so much about the “good, quality time, spent talking about the rest of my life,” but the time spent with other parents, families interacting, seeing the gene pool of your roommate, finding out whether the red neck is hereditary—it’s like experiencing an episode of Friends, kinda. I just think the school should make a bigger deal out of it. It’s the old-timers’ pockets from which the $20,000 comes. I know there are activities planned, a tailgate get-together, speakers, etc., but I also know some parents just don’t feel altogether welcome. This year is a little different with the convocation mix-up, but other functions were also not so successful. I took my parents to meet my professors, and two of them were not to be found. I understand if they have some other pressing business to attend, but this weekend is the only chance the parents get to relive their college days, to rub shoulders with the intellects who are not only influencing their children but running away with their money as well. I don’t want to be another unsatisfied customer perpetuating the us-against-them mindset. I’m happy with Davidson, my parents are happy with Davidson, just sometimes our expectations get a little inflated.

S.S. Boyd ‘96