News

Campaign for Davidson exceeds goal

The Campaign for Davidson, the celebration of which caused such controversy during Convocation, has officially ended. Davidson’s endowment now stands
$160.3 million larger.

Mayoral and city council candidates to debate at Davidson

Candidates for Davidson town mayor will be on campus October 30 for a debate. The SGA is sponsoring the debate
in an attempt to bring the College and town communities together. The campaign has generated some interest because the incumbent
mayor is being seriously challenged for the first time in several years, said SGA Vice-President Warren Buford.

Money Watch

Head Independent senator Brian Luskey successfully petitioned the SGA for $500 for the Independents’ Homecoming party held at the BSC.
Luskey said the money would go toward refreshments, a DJ, and other incidental fees. The money was allocated without objection.

Dave Derrick requested $80 on behalf of the Student Advisory Committee to the Director of Residence Life. The money will
cover the cost of folders, pens, and copies of the survey. The survey will ask students what areas of residence
life need most improvement. One senator abstained from voting on the motion.

SGA suggests improvements for ’97-’98

The proposed academic calendar for ’97-’98 was presented to the SGA for symbolic approval last Tuesday. While very much resembling
the current calendar, some senators suggested changes. SAE senator Will Cowan argued that there ought to be a Sunday exam
period in addition to the usual six days. He motioned that the SGA approve the calendar with a suggestion that
a Sunday exam period be added for the Fall and Spring terms. The motion passed with five objections and one
abstention. The SGA approved the calendar in toto with nine objections and one abstention.

-compiled by Matt Eirich

THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1995

Ski RESORT JOBS
Northstar-at-Tahoe
LAKE TAHOE, CALIFORNIA

Spend the winter in beautiful Lake Tahoe, CA. Northstar is looking for friendly, enthusiastic people to fill a variety of
positions. Truckee, CA.

By ANDREW PRESTON
Staff Writer

On October 3rd, Congressman Mel Watt spoke in the 900 room about his plan for redistributing the 12th district in
North Carolina. According to Watt, the new voting system would more fairly represent the African-American population. The plan to redistribute
the 12th voting district in North Carolina is described by Congressman Watt as a move to create a more effective
democratic process in a diverse country. “Few countries in history have had such a successful democracy in such diversity,” says
Watt.

Watt feels that the basis of this democracy is that many diverse interests work together, and emphasizes the need to
see that all perspectives are represented. Although Watt feels that the United States is a successful democracy, he does admit
that “we are not a color-blind society ... There is still a percent of the population that is racist.” The
redistribution act hopes to solve that problem by re-aligning the voting districts and taking into account that a certain percent
of the population will never vote for an African-American representative. The new voting system will allow African-Americans fairer representation in
government.

Watt points out that African-Americans represent approximately twenty percent of the population in the United States, and that they deserve
to be represented. However, Watt also adds that this representation should not take anything away from other voters. Many questions
arose during the speech, some by the audience and some by Watt himself. Watt asked the audience, “If a black
man is elected by aWhite majority, should he answer to the people who elected him or should he still represent
the black population?” Although this appears to pose deep racial questions, it was generally accepted that as a congressman you
should not represent a race at all but rather the beliefs and platform that got you elected. Another question that
was raised was how large a minority should be to be able to have its own district. Watt answered that
there is no real number requirement in deciding who should have their own district, but that the decision is based
more on whether or not that group in society is discriminated against.

Watt has many childhood memories of Davidson, including shining shoes in a barber shop owned by his family. Segregation was
still practiced at this time, and Watt’s greatest fear was “getting shoe polish on the white socks of the Davidson
students.” Watt left Davidson during 5th or 6th grade, not because of segregation, but because the relatives he was living
with “forced me to eat spinach at dinner.”

The Court from page 1

“On the way out,” he said. Westol said students ought to ask questions about hazing and pledging activities during rush.
“Ask questions. Be specific,” he said. Of even more interest to the PCC was Westol’s comments on risk management. Westol
was briefed on the recent changes in the Court’s risk management policy, and said, “I recognize that you have made
some progress.” He also noted, however, “inconsistencies” in the plan. In order to meet their insurance policies and protect themselves
from lawsuits, Westol said all Davidson parties should be BYO, identify twenty-one-year-olds with wristbands or in some other way, and
offer sufficient amounts of quality food and non-alcoholic drinks as alternatives. Westol encouraged the Court to stop “dishing out alcohol
to everyone who comes in.” Guest lists also ought to be used and enforced by someone at the door. If
a person is not on the guest list, he/she should not get in, Westol said. If houses want to protect
themselves in a lawsuit, “don’t provide alcohol to others,” Westol urged. Students ought not to be allowed to bring one
six-pack of beer or four-pack of wine coolers.

Patterson Court President Steve Shames said he didn’t think Westol’s advice shocked any of the house presidents. Shames essentially agreed
with Westol’s assessment of where Davidson’s risk management is and where it must get to. “We made some really good
progress, but still we are not really covered by our insurance policies. And the only way we are going to
get covered is to do what he says,” said Shames. Shames said the PCC needs to “start establishing long-range goals.”
The Court has to be “proactive” to diffuse and prevent possibly dangerous situations, he said. “Within five years, it will
be BYO and guest lists on the Court,” said Shames. “I don’t think anyone wants to do this. But when
it comes down to it, it seems that this is what we have to do.”

Write for The Davidsonian. Call us at x2148.

895-0404

A New and Exciting Place for Hair & Nail Services

20430-2 Norman Crossing Shopping Center I-77 Exit 28, behind Wendy's

20% Student Discount with Davidson College ID

*Please specify Master Designer when calling
