THE DAVIDSONIAN BACK PAGE INTERVIEW
APRIL 24, 1995

Between scenes, members of English 452 discuss the joys and agonies of performing Shakespeare. April 20, 1995

What is the purpose of the class?
Cynthia Lewis: The class has a lot of purposes, in my mind. One is almost purely academic, and that’s to undertake a sustained study of one play throughout a whole semester through performance, which in past years anyway has proved to be a really effective way to understand a play. And that understanding provides a great basis for understanding other Shakespearean plays. I usually begin the class by telling students that it’s more than anything else a sort of Outward Bound. It’s a course in building community, wherein students begin with a play script and then are on their own to put together an entire production — finance it, advertise it, costume it, design it, everything. That, it seems to me, is an invaluable experience.

Why did you take Performing Shakespeare?
Matt Smith: It sounded like an incredibly intriguing class. I love acting and all of that, and I wanted to be in a play, but I’d never done Shakespeare before. That’s quite an adventure. The “Outward Bound of the English department” is kind of an enticing title.

Why did you take Performing Shakespeare for the second time?
Eleanor Hatcher: Because I felt the need to be a slave to Cynthia Lewis. No, that’s not true — making costumes can be fun.

Describe your previous theater experience and how this differs from it.
Catherine Rivenbark: I’ve been in plays since I was sixteen, and acting classes. The way that this is different is that I’ve never been in a Shakespeare play before, and this is a completely different way of acting.
Leigh Rawdon: I’ve had none. Well, in the second grade I played Patrick Henry, at a time when everybody in the class got a part. That was my big theatrical experience. In tenth grade, actually, I played an old lady in Arthur Miller’s The Crucible, and I fainted on stage. It was pretty big.

Do you feel the class is worth the time investment?
Scott Lenhart: I think it’s worth it for the group to get together, form an ensemble company, and put something together as a group, holding hands across America.
Josh Buchanan: Oh, sure. I’m also taking the 352 class, and I get to see not only the aspects of the plays and the texts and the whole works of Shakespeare, I get to see one play in particular from start to finish — from the written work to production.

What has been the biggest challenge?
Scott Lenhart: The language itself, learning the lines. Oh, and dealing with Dr. Lewis, Old Sin.
Amanda Bryan: Kate’s final speech, which I still don’t have a handle on so I can’t really tell you how I’ve tackled it. But, I think it will be fine by the time the performance comes around. And the kiss is going to be a big problem for me. I’m really scared. I don’t want to be dripping saliva all over everybody and gross the audience out. So, hopefully that will work out fine.
Josh Buchanan: Playing an old man. Playing an old man is extremely difficult, especially when you’re 20 years old. I’ve had to watch a lot of old people on campus.
Laura Leibfreid: The most challenging part of the class was just getting everybody to mesh — the English people and the acting people. That was hard.
Rachel Braden: Trying to learn how to sew again, and trying to keep a straight face on stage. It’s very hard to do.

What has been the most rewarding part of the class, and what have you learned?
Geoff Graham: I’ve learned a lot about myself as a person and my ability to deal with other people and adapt to the situation at hand. The most rewarding part of the class is, I think, several things. Getting to know a lot of people I didn’t know before on a more intimate level. Seeing the things my friends and I have built and put together up on stage. Being able, for the first time, to actually get up on a stage and act like the natural ham I am.
Mary McCrory: I just never realized how much there was to think about before, down to every little tiny detail as far as even brushing hair out of your face. It never occurred to me that you have to think about every move. The lines, that’s not the hardest part at all.
Phil Lisi: I really like the fact that I can crack bawdy jokes and do all the nice, what they call in Shakespeare, “dick jokes.”
Andrew Smitherman: Probably being able to say that we’ve mastered a Shakespeare show. Well, not mastered, but being able to say that we’ve performed a Shakespeare show. Getting to know all these English people that wouldn’t have done theater otherwise if it weren’t for a credit. Being able to delve into the sexual aspects of the play, boldly led by Phil Lisi.
Leigh Rawdon: I have to say that sometimes it’s intimidating to be in a performance with orTo be on stage with people who are so talented and who have had so much experience. But everybody has been incredibly supportive and encouraging, and it helped me overcome any fear I had of being on stage. I guess my biggest fear was not being on stage, but becoming a character. I found that the first couple of weeks I would just read the lines and play a sort of nondescript servant, but then eventually I worked with Phil on our particular scene, and I discovered who Curtis really is, and I became Curtis. I'd say that was definitely the hardest part, but the most rewarding—when I could actually act, or try, at least. I found it rewarding to see how a text from so long ago relates so well to modern issues, specifically issues about women and their place in society today, and the discussions that we had about it.

What did you find to be the biggest reward from the seminar part of the class—the research and studying of the text?

Ashley Wright: I found it rewarding to see how a Shakespearean text from so long ago relates so well to modern issues, specifically issues about women and their place in society today, and the discussions that we had about it.

Matt Smith: A greater insight, I guess, into Shakespeare. When you take Shakespeare as a ninth grader in high school, they give you a lot of stuff that you come to find out here is kind of a misconception or not exactly true. So, we’ve really looked closely into the way things really were, or at least the way we think they are, and that’s always a good thing.

The sexist slant of The Taming of the Shrew is a major issue the class has had to deal with. How well do you feel the performance is handling this issue?

Megan Mitchell: In the time period in which this play takes place, women were discriminated against much more than they are now, and I think that one of the things the play brings out is the fact that Kate is able to sort of manipulate the patriarchal society that she lives in and overcome it. And she finds a way to live within and without the system.

TAMING OF THE SHREW
Rob Kosicki

In 1983, Professor of English Cynthia Lewis and a group of students launched an English seminar unlike any seminar before it. Operating with the conviction that Shakespeare’s plays are performance texts and not merely works for literary study, they integrated themselves into the English department. Only the students drafted by Prof. Lewis or those with exceptionally low lottery numbers enroll in the course. Although English 452 grants the usual one credit, during the second half of the semester students meet for three-hour rehearsals four days a week. This does not include building the set, making costumes, and organizing publicity. This year, the company will perform The Taming of the Shrew in the Chambers Gallery at 7:30 on April 28, 29, May 1, and 2.

The show is not the end, however. Prof. Lewis hopes that students take away from the course a thorough understanding of Shakespeare and his drama, but above all, memories of a particularly good time.

Laura Leibfreid: I think we’ve adapted so that an audience can watch it and not be offended at all, like a 1995 audience.

Sarah Zirkle: I think that the class has come together from 17 different points of view, and has discussed everything with a lot of insight and maturity.

Rachel Braden: I think that we’ve done it about as well as we can without taking out any passages, which I think would be a very bad thing. We’ve emphasized the humor rather than the political parts of it.

What similarities do you see between yourself and your character?

Megan Mitchell (Tranio): I don’t know, I’ve never really had a desire to be a man.

Josh Buchanan (Gremio): Gremio and I are both nitpicky. We’re both very nervous, and we both consistently fail at our attempts to find love for ourselves.

How do you feel about having to kiss Bobby on stage?

Amanda Bryan: Personally, I’m repulsed. But I’ll just put aside all my personal discomfort, and realize that this is art, and I’m doing this for art’s sake.

So, sum it up.

Phil Lisi: It’s been a wonderful experience. It’s totally different than anything I’ve ever had. Dr. Lewis has been great. Just being able to work openly every day, being able to offer suggestions and opinions and see them become concrete ideas in a play. Everybody’s so talented in this class, it’s just a pleasure to be a part of it.

What happens to this class when you run out of Shakespearean comedies?

Cynthia Lewis: I’m hoping to widen the scope of the course to include some of the dramas of Shakespeare’s contemporaries, which are highly neglected in our culture and some of the most performable plays ever written.

BY ROBERT RAMSAY