Che Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXVI MONDAY, MARCH 27, 1995 NUMBER 22

Committee evaluates Honor Code
Students question the code's effectiveness

By SARAH TEACHWORTH
Staff Writer

In recent months, members of the Davidson College community have voiced concern about the effectiveness of the Honor Code. The
ad hoc committee that was formed last fall to evaluate the system as a whole reported its findings to the
SGA last Tuesday.

What do the faculty really think?

By MARY CLARE JALONICK
News Editor

Some students say that many professors would like to see Patterson Court eliminated. Is this true? Each professor has a
different opinion.

“There are wonderful people in and out of the houses,” says History Professor Ralph Levering. “I tend to judge people
individually.”

“The extent to which Patterson Court is a dominant force on campus seems to be a matter of some concern,”
says History Professor John Wertheimer. “I hear about service and that seems good, and I hear about abuses and that
does not seem good. In the classroom I treat people individually. I would not shed one tear if the whole
thing fell apart, but I don’t shed many tears now. It doesn’t really matter to me.”

“The dominance of Patterson...

See Faculty on page 3

NOW activist arrested

By AMY WHITMIRE & MARY CLARE JALONICK
Staff Writer & News Editor

President of the National Organization for Women Patricia Ireland, who will speak at Davidson on Tuesday, was arrested in Washington
Thursday while protesting the welfare reform proposals set forth by Republicans. According to the Charlotte Observer and the New York
Times, the police handcuffed Ireland and led her...

THIS WEEK
First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

The Mission

Former SGA President Eric Rosenbach orchestrated the formation of the committee last October. He planned for the group to consist
of both SGA and Honor Council members. With this in mind, he appointed Sophomore Class President Warren Buford and Honor
Council Chairman Arthur Gaston to co-chair the committee. Additional members of the SGA and Honor Council were appointed to the
committee, as well as two members of the student body at large. Together, they set out not only to evaluate
the effectiveness of the Honor System but to identify and recommend solutions for its weaknesses.

According to the committee’s report, the “investigation makes no claim to being a scientific study, nor did we intend it
to be.” Instead, they chose to gather individual opinions informally from students, faculty, and staff. Over a five-month period, the
committee met approximately every two or three weeks to share and compare their findings with each other. They then compiled
their information into a six-page report and distributed it at the March 21 SGA meeting.

Gaston says, “I’m very pleased with our results. I think we did what we set out to do. We wanted
in-depth responses, and that’s what we got.”

See Honor on page 4

SMILING JEFFMen’s tennis coach Jeff Frank was all smiles after earning his 400th career win. The milestone came Saturday in
a match against Charleston Southern. Frank’s 401st victory came the same day over Belmont Abbey. For more, see page 14.

Rob Kosicki staged with about 40 other women, shouting, “Stop the war on women!” The welfare reform plan passed on
Friday. Ireland will speak at Davidson on “Violence Against Women” in an effort to rally support for the National Organization
of Women’s upcoming conference in April in Washington, D.C. Ireland plans to emphasize recent events that exemplify types of violence
against women, and her speech includes topics such as violence against women seeking abortions and the O.J. Simpson case in
a rally for victims of domestic violence. NOW is one of the most influential feminist groups in the country. The
Speakers Committee and the Women’s Issues Committee bring Ireland to Davidson as a part of the Women’s Month activities. She
will speak in Love Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. “As far as we know, she is still coming to Davidson,” says
Letitia Campbell, Chair of Women’s Month.

Cops cause racial debate

“This incident is just one more case of harassment of African-Americans on this campus.”

By JENNIFER KERNS
Staff Writer

Nearly a month ago on a Saturday, the car was parking at the gate of the Physical Plant, a no
parking area. The incident occurred at 2 a.m. after the police had been called to handle a dispute at KA.
According to Campus Police, the driver got out, and the officer ran a check on the car. The officer then
told the driver to park at Baker and accompanied him and his passenger to the Baker parking lot. Normally, according
to police procedure, the driver will be told why he or she has been stopped. Officer David Harding says he
planned to tell the driver why as he drove him to his destination, but the man decided to walk to
the dorm, where a Davidson student friend waited for him. Because the driver was African-American, one student says, “This incident
is just one more case of harassment of African-Americans on this campus.”

To discuss this issue, campus police met Sunday, March 19 with the Black Student Coalition. One member, who asked not
to be named, says “[The police] are just doing their job to protect the student body.” Policeman Rick Moore says,
“At the beginning, there was a lot of frustration on both sides. But after we talked awhile, I think basically
everyone agreed with us. We talked about their concerns and explained why we stop cars. I think it ended well.
We have met.”

See Pulled on page 3

Students make the most of the time they spend studying, reading and catching rays at the same time. Recycling makes
progress. Take a look at Maria.

NEWS 2

Ike responds to himself. The campus police are just doing their job.

OPINIONS 8

Six women banging their drums.

ARTS & LIVING 10

Baseball team leaves Deacons in its wake.

SPORTS 14
