OPINIONS ~ MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1995

Holt Vaughan

The Art of Following

There are plenty of leaders out there. After all, our society breeds them. We pick our kids out of the
playground games. The ones who are telling others who to kiss and when to kiss them are the leaders. The
ones who speak up in class and ask questions — no matter how dumb they might be — are considered
the ones who take initiative and speak their mind. We hand-pick these budding stars and put them in our “accelerated
programs.” When they hit junior high, we help them run for president of the class. When they hit high school,
we help them run for student body president, captain of the football team, and head cheerleader. We love these people.
We tell them how well they represent us, and we wish them well in life. More times than not, these
former childhood leaders take the confidence we gave them in high school and use it in the rest of their
lives. Many times they become presidents of companies, politicians, and teachers — some of the positions our society praises and
respects most. These kids go on to have successful lives and we say, “What fine leaders they are!”

My question is, what happened to the followers? Did we have any special programs for the rest of the student
body that gave these leaders their power? Did we give a special award for the best follower of the year?
How about the guy who would argue the philosophies of the president of the Key Club, show his point of
view, but ultimately support anything his leader decided? Did we give any awards to that guy? Of course we didn’t.
We discourage followers. “They have no spine,” we say. “They have no self-confidence,” we condescend. And that, my friends, I
sincerely believe to be the fundamental problem with our government. We have put all of our pride and joy in
the apple pie leader and completely devalued the importance of the follower.

I have never been a big fan of old Billy Clinton. To tell you the truth, I was a Perot
fan. I campaigned for Ross, wrote to him, slept with his book, and yes, even voted for him. Call me
stupid, call me Texan, but I loved him. On that infamous election day, however, when old Bill beat the crap
out of my hero, I put my head down, cried, and then got over it. Bill was the new President
of the United States. Whether I liked him or not, there was nothing I could do about it. So I
began to support him, and I still do. Unfortunately, I do not think the majority of us do support our
President. As of the Super Bowl, Clinton had a record low 47% approval rating. Our country has turned against Bill,
our one and only leader for the next two years. So I guess that’s it. He’s gone, out of office,
no longer has any influence. But the problem is, he’s got two more years on his contract, and we can’t
get rid of him unless he starts to suddenly swing from the chandeliers in the White House, screeching like a
monkey. He’s not getting anything done? Of course he’s not getting anything done. With 47% support, how is he supposed
to be able to breathe without being afraid he’s going to get somebody infected (I hope that made sense).

Here we have a true leader. He was a scholar from first grade. He was president of more clubs than
I have ever been a member of. He was a Rhodes Scholar. He’s a public speaker, and he’s in great
shape (OK, maybe that’s stretching it). The point is, we have a leader. We voted him in. Now, it’s our
responsibility to help him. Yes, we all want to be the leader. We all want to make decisions. We all
want to be “important.” But we can be leaders and still be followers at the same time. That is the
most important sacrifice we can make. It is time to turn around our complaining caps, rally behind our leader, and
give him the support he needs. It’s time for us to be followers. It is our time to take pride
in the art of following and praise others that do the same. It is our duty.

Jeremy Tarr

Differences are encouraging

Bill Gullan says that as Davidson students, “There is more that unites us than divides us. To live together peaceably,
we only need to tap into it.” I believe there is more that divides us than unites us. The fact
that we all study at Davidson is not more important than each of our backgrounds and cultures. I agree it
is best, in a perfect world, to treat every individual equally; but this is not a perfect world. Because students
do not respect and treat each other equally, it is appropriate for the administration to support those who have it
hardest.

The truth is, we the students do not create an accepting, encouraging, and curious atmosphere at Davidson. Some try, but
it is too easy for others to look away. We spend a painful amount of time resting contently because we
are the “eighth best liberal arts college” and too little energy challenging our easy lives. Too often, we cruise through
each day without feeling forced to question or to rethink our particular ways of life. In fact, this “rigorous” and
“challenging” Davidson experience...is not rigorous or challenging enough. I think the challenge of college should be in evaluating what we
learn, not getting the work done or making it to the weekend. Similarly, we should challenge ourselves socially by not
always doing what is comfortable — especially when that means learning, understanding, and accepting another’s culture and way of life.
Instead of all the inane, complacent chatter, why don’t we converse and communicate more? Why don’t we really try to
know and share ourselves with those who are different from us? We can at least take advantage of the little
diversity we have.

Bill is right when he states that we should celebrate our differences “if we’re learning from each other,” but I
think we should be doing more learning and more celebrating. Learning from each other should be the norm, not the
exception. Because this is not the case at Davidson, it is appropriate for the administration to recognize minorities as groups
and try to compensate. If the students do not actively strive to accept various cultures and perspectives, the college needs
to help those outside the norm deal with that fact. When Davidson’s dominantly white, conservative social life is comfortable to
someone, it is easy for him or her to overlook how one-sided life here is. For this person, it is
easy to say that everybody has an equal opportunity. But those of us who don’t identify with the particular Davidson
way of life realize how biased and suffocating it is.

In light of the students’ self-constricting social attitude at Davidson, a supplementary (not “separate” as Bill stated) black orientation, or
any minority event alike, is nothing to be concerned about. Because blacks, in particular, share a common thread which must
be defended here each day, a meeting just for blacks hardly should be disturbing. It is a time for those
with a common difference to get a head start in the challenging social life at Davidson. I, in fact, envy
the experience. To me, the culture shock I, as a liberal male, experience each day is hard enough. I can’t
imagine the shock if I weren’t white.

All the cool kids write for Opinions. Be a cool kid. Call Jeff -2148.

Jeff Kent

Get to know us

I would like to applaud Dean Shandley and the group of professors that spent a night last weekend in the
dorms. With all the changes that have occurred over the last few years, it is encouraging to see the administration
making an active effort to gain insight into the students’ lives. Hopefully, programs like this will continue.

Since I came to Davidson, I have been continually shocked by the extent of misunderstanding that exists between the students,
faculty, and administration. I remember hearing stories about “the old days” when faculty would hang out with students at fraternity
and eating house parties. I don’t know if these legends are true, but I would like to see more interaction
of this or any other kind. Professors these days seem to think that they need to remove themselves to gain
respect from their students. I beg to differ. Personally, I find it a lot easier both to respect and to
relate to someone that I know as a person.

There is no reason why students and faculty should separate themselves so much. I’m not saying that the history department
should all go to a fraternity party and get sauced, or that the math department should have a FAC with
kegs and a band. I am suggesting that both faculty and students should make more of an effort to interact
outside of Chambers. Obviously, the gap between students and the faculty is too large. We can see this in many
of the policies passed over the years. Last I checked, the purpose of a college was to improve the lives
of its undergraduates. We pay over $20,000 a year, but I sometimes wonder whether the administration really takes into account
the welfare of the students. Lately, it seems that college officials are more concerned with improving the reputation of the
school and their own careers than the lives of the students.

I think many college employees have lost sight of the essence of a college: students. Why do the faculty continually
push to abolish fraternities when the majority of the students avidly support them? Why does RLO spend more time assigning
fines than trying to improve the quality and maintenance of the residence halls? Why does the scheduling committee plan breaks
at times not supported by the students? If the faculty and administration continue to make decisions ignorant of the students’
feelings, a rift will always exist. Such a rift only causes controversy and detracts from the quality of the college.
The effort needs to come from both students and faculty. When hiring new faculty members and accepting new students, we
need to look for people that can effectively interact with many different groups.

I sincerely hope that more programs like last weekend’s will surface during the Shandley years. There is no reason why
students and faculty can’t watch a game together or have a drink together or play sports together. Who knows, we
might even find each other interesting. But certainly, through interacting we will gradually understand each other — and that is
better for everyone.
