12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING

MONDAY
ON THE SCENE | The New Winds, a woodwind trio, combine wizardry, grace, and mastery to bring offbeat sonic concepts
into a provocative show. 8 p.m. in Hodson Hall. Tinsley Ellis gives a Live Monday concert in the 900 Room
from 9:30-midnight.

TUESDAY
One-act tryouts for American Dream by Edward Albee and Icarus’ Mother by Sam Shepard. 7 p.m. in Cunningham, Room 110.
A.R. Ammons, revered American poet and winner of the National Book Award, MacArthur Prize for Poetry, and Bollingen Prize for
Poetry, reads from his work in the 900 Room at 7:30 p.m. 21-year-old night. 10:30-12 in the 900 Room.

WEDNESDAY
Housing Lottery. 8-11 p.m. in Chambers Gallery. Colors, an original production by the studio theatre classes, will be performed at
7:30 p.m. in the Studio Theatre. Lowell Bryan, Director of banking practice at McKinsey & Company, speaks on “Implications of
Global Capital Markets” at 8 p.m. in the Morrison Room. In the Name of the Father. 9:30 p.m. 900 Room.

THURSDAY
ROTC/Red Cross Blood Drive. Help reduce a severe blood shortage in the local area and get some free munchies to
boot. 11 a.m.-4:30 p.m. in the DCPC Fellowship Hall. If you’re in a rush, call Mike at 892-2165 for an
appointment. Colors. 7:30 p.m. in the Studio Theatre. Richard Lewontin, Professor of Biology at the Harvard Museum of Comparative Zoology,
delivers the Smith Lecture on aspects of biological determinism, human evolution, and the human genome project. 7:30 p.m. in Love
Auditorium. Housing Lottery. 8-11 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

FRIDAY
George Wilson, Chair of the Philosophy Department at Johns Hopkins University, lectures on film theory. 4:30 p.m. in the Morrison
Room. ACES Workshop. “How to Survive on a Predominantly White Campus.” 7-8:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

SATURDAY
Jumpin’ Java Cafe. 2-6 p.m. at the Outpost. Voice Recital. Joanna Boyd, soprano, performs her senior recital at 8 p.m.
in Hodson Hall.

SUNDAY
Clarinet Recital. Senior Jennifer Julyan performs at 2 p.m. in Hodson Hall. My Left Foot. 8 p.m. in the 900
Room.

ALL WEEK
Arnold Mesches Exhibition. “Selections from the Anomie Series.” In the Van Every Gallery. Senior Exhibition: Carey Thompson. In the Smith
Gallery.

Rants ‘n Raves

MONDAY, APRIL 3, 1995

Bavis reviews lo-fi, revved up walls of sound
By Tom Bavis
Staff writer

Bush, Sixteen Stone. The debut by this British quartet stands out by offering almost no surprises. Principally a vehicle for
singer/songwriter and guitarist Gavin Rossdale (a spitting image of Eddie Vedder), Bush offers listeners a slow, heavy, inferior hybrid of
Pearl Jam and Smashing Pumpkins. “Everything Zen,” the first single and video, takes most of what they have to offer
and packs it into four minutes. No other songs quite match “Zen” in energy or quality. Rossdale’s lyrics say very
little and exist mainly to give his gritty, almost robotic hard rock voice something to say. Altogether, Sixteen Stone does
little to offend — but it doesn’t shake up the house of hard rock, either.

Danzig, 4. It’s dreadful. Like Led Zeppelin in 1971, Glenn Danzig left his fourth album semi-titleless. Unfortunately for people with
ears, he mimics Led Zeppelin IV’s mysterious, heavy death rock sound but comes up with an album that makes Foreigner
4 seem like a classic. Produced spottily by big-name producer Rick Rubin (also responsible for Tom Petty’s Wildflowers and most
Run-DMC albums), some parts not only don’t rock that much but kind of sound like a demo made by some
Judas Priest-loving 17-year-olds. Drummer Chuck Biscuits must have earned his job with his goofy name— he certainly shouldn’t have with
his unreliable drumming. He’s terrible. Then there’s Glenn Danzig himself. You may remember him from the videos: he’s the one
who looks like a miniature Lou Ferrigno. As always, his voice sounds like Jim Morrison imitating Elvis, and it’s sometimes
good for a laugh. The lyrics read like high school poetry — the kind a kid writes when he’s been
dumped by his girl and has started getting into Satan worship. The first line from the first song, “Brand New
God,” sums the album up better than I ever could: “I am a walking, screaming hell / A thing of
torture to behold.” Just dreadful.

Oasis, Definitely Maybe. If this group spent less time thinking about how great they were and spent more time focusing
their noticeable talent, Definitely Maybe could have been a great album. Pictures of the quintet — mostly those of guitarist
and songwriter Noel Gallagher and hisyounger brother Liam—hog all the space on the CD booklet. Thus listeners don’t get to
read the lyrics, which pertain mostly to drinking, being British, and wanting to be famous. Liam Gallagher gives his voice
the Johnny Rotten workout, ending vocal lines with a snotty cockney wail. The music also tips its hat to the
Sex Pistols, opting for lo-fi, revved-up walls of sound. Though not a bad group, Oasis treads a fine line between
being brilliant and being a bunch of drunk brats.

Dreaming from page 10

The traditional Indian voice and drums lent itself to the interdisciplinary and cross-cultural feel of the evening. And in the
spirit of classical Indian music, each performer was free to improvise within a framework, which added texture to the music.
Each of the five cankam poems was joined by corresponding poetry from Native American, Chinese, and Korean cultures, further extending
the broad cultural perspective of the show. As each cankam poem dealt with a different ecoregion, each Native American, Chinese,
or Korean poem dealt with the same type of topic. For instance, the first cankam song was about the coastal
region, and the other poetry joined with it included a Native American poem called “The Great Sea” and others centering
around the various characteristics of the coastal region. All the other cankam poems were joined by similar types of poems
read before and after the songs were played.

Native American poetry was read by Miles Mowry, Davidson Theater major. Gill Holland, Davidson Professor of English, read English translations
of Chinese and Korean poetry, while Thomas Wang read the Chinese versions of the poems and Jung-Ah Shin read the
Korean versions. A lot of work went into the preparation of the evening, with poetry selection by Mark Csikszentmihalyi, Davidson
Visiting Assistant Professor of Religion, Rosemary Zumwalt, Chair of the Davidson Anthropology/Sociology Department, Holland, Selvamony, and Stasack. The set was
a part of Cort Savage’s Myths of Rationality, a work created in 1992 and previously shown in New York, New
Orleans, and Winston-Salem. The sculpture forms a circular corridor made out of thousands of slides representing the history of art
and architecture from a western perspective. Lights shown through Savage’s sculpture added even more to the artistic/interdisciplinary nature of the
program, and members of the audience were invited to view the set from onstage after the performance. In addition, lights
were done by Ronnie Higdon and sound was done by Steve Smith.

All of the work put into Dreaming of Home was well worth it. Not only did the Davidson community get
to experience a cross-cultural collaborative effort, but they learned how enriching it can be to discover and take part in
other cultures—not only to learn about them, but simply to enjoy them. Before the show and even after reading the
program, I was not sure what the performance would be like. After the show, I came out feeling both amazed
and excited. The Davidson community should include more of this type of program in the future. It would be of
great benefit and highly enjoyable for everyone.

No taste from page 10

Amici Pizzaria

To the smiling person in the illuminated booth at the theater, you have been warned. Wait until it debuts on
videocassette, and when it does not sell (which it will not) and when it is given away at the door
(which it will be), use the videocassette as a worm farm or part of an explosive device, or strap it
to your body and act mysterious. (This might be the only thing that could make the movie entertaining.) Something. But
don’t waste your money.

Have a new CD that you love or hate? Let others know. Write a short review of it for Arts
& Living. Call John or Jacob. -2148.

Amici Pizzaria now has a new Eat-in Dining Room! With pool tables, jukebox, cigarette machine. We also offer new &
delicious dinners, including a variety of tasty pastas. And as always, Amici still has great pizza, hot and cold subs,
hot Italian subs, and Philly Cheese Steak sandwiches.

College Special: Monday, Tuesday, & Wednesday nights get $1.00 cans of beer w/ Davidson I.D. Friday Nights starting at 10:00:
Live Music/Free Admission. Food specials on Fri. nights.

**Right now, come in and get a free beverage with the purchase of a meal and this ad.**

As always, your Davidson I.D. gets you 10% off all food and beverage items.

211 N. Griffin St. Sadler Square. Phone: 892-4570
