THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1995

Football Stats

Bridgewater Davidson
Att.-727 (at Davidson)
B Blake 9-33, Jonas 5-24, Sapp 1-17.
070 0—7
007 0—0
B-Hamilton 16 pass from Rowland (Padgett kick)
D-Henry 48 run (Mileham kick)

First downs 6 9
Rushes-yards 37-91 36-87
Passing 46 96
Return yards 41 45
Comp-Att.-Int 6-16-2 10-21-2
Punts 10-38 7-33
Fumbles-lost 5-0 5-1
Penalties-yards 5-41 2-10
Time of Poss. 31:08 28:52

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS

RUSHING—Bridgewater: Beaman 3-7, Richardson 23-81, Bryant 1-5, Ball 4-13, Rowland 3-(minus 15). Davidson: Moll 11-6, Henry 11-24.
PASSING—Bridgewater: Rowland 6-16-2-46. Davidson: Henry 10-21-2-96.
RECEIVING—Bridgewater: Childs 1-6, Richardson 2-3, Ball 1-3, Hamilton 2-34. Davidson: Jonas 3-34, Moll 2-8, Jonas 1-0, Roberts 3-37.

Wrestlers hit the mats
By Jason McMullan
Staff writer

With the football season quickly drawing to a close, another breed of Davidson’s big men will soon be taking the
spotlight. A 30-foot circle on a rubber mat will replace the grass of Richardson Field as center stage as wrestling
season begins.

WRESTLING

“We have no standouts, but no weak links, either,” coach Tom Oddo said. This year’s squad is definitely a solid
one. Senior co-captains Sean Harvey and Jesse Kenner will lead the Wildcats. Sophomore Andy Sterling returns after a very strong
season last year, in which he led the team in takedowns and had a 21-13 record. Ben Wall also promises
to do well this year; when his season ended prematurely, he was leading the Southern Conference in pins. The Wildcats
also welcome freshman Christian Baker, a former Tennessee state champion, to the squad. Sophomore transfer Chip Stewart is “a fabulous
addition at heavyweight,” Oddo said.

Next weekend the squad travels to a pre-season tournament at VMI. Only two-thirds of the team will travel to Virginia,
but all 15 will make their way down to Pensacola (Fla.) for their second tourney on Nov. 18. Even though
the squad is lean in numbers, Oddo’s ranks were hand-picked. “It was a conscious decision to have fifteen viable wrestlers
instead of twenty less-committed ones,” he says. He also stresses that as long as the team stays virtually injury-free, this
season promises to be a success.

In the last few years, Oddo has had to concentrate on filling the ten weight classes with quality wrestlers. Now
that he doesn’t have “a weak weight class” anymore, he can work on producing top-quality wrestlers. “The quality will improve
with experience,” he said. “Our numbers will give each man a greater opportunity to get more wrestling.”

“Our biggest goal is an attainable one,” says Oddo. “I think we should have more guys winning individual tournaments. Four
or five have a legitimate shot at getting conference titles.” If a wrestler wins a conference championship, he then gets
an automatic bid to the Division I nationals. If Oddo and his wrestlers accomplish their goal, this year would be
the first in over 20 that would see a Wildcat in the nationals.

This season, consisting of four tournaments and several “quad” matches (matches involving four different schools). The first home match will
be a quad on Dec. 2 against The Citadel, Apprentice (Va.), and Coppin State (Md.).

Cassidy finishes his class act career
By Michael Kruse
Staff writer

With tears in his eyes and a tremulous voice, senior captain James Cassidy spoke emotionally about his time at Davidson
after a recent loss at Centre.

FOOTBALL FEATURE

The defeat was the eighth of his senior year, a season that brought many individual conquests and honors, but unfortunately
for the potent pass rusher and his senior teammates, an extremely frustrating one in wins. In setting school records for
sacks in a season (11.5) and in a career (24) this fall, Cassidy has served as an exemplary captain, showing
the extremely youthful squad what it takes to be great. “I hope I make an impact, and I hope I
show (the underclassmen) how hard they have to work to be good,” he said. “I wasn’t born a great football
player.”

But because of a driven personality coupled with a fierce, unwavering work ethic, that’s exactly what the gracious Cassidy became,
as his illustrious college football career came to an impressive conclusion. Saturday afternoon, in a 7-7 season-ending tie against Bridgewater,
Cassidy helped control the defensive side of the ball with 12 tackles and one sack. Taking his leadership role as
captain very seriously, the 6-0, 238-pound lineman commands respect from both his coaches and his teammates, including the up-and-coming Davidson
stars, as they admire him as an outstanding player and an upstandinghuman being. Coach Tim Landis, who worked with Cassidy
for the past three seasons, said of his most valuable player, “There’s not a single person who exemplifies a Davidson
College football player more so than James.” Freshman defensive linemate Ben Spivey, who learned many of his tactics from Cassidy
this year, said, “He’s one of the hardest working athletes I’ve ever been around in my life. It’s just been
incredible being able to play with him because he makes you so much better just by having to play up
to his expectations and standards.”

Said first-year free safety Dan Dearing, “We can look at him and see what we'd like to be. His dedication
to the game can be seen through his performances because he is just an amazing football player. I know he’s
going to be successful in all his football exploits in the future as well.”

Concerning plans after his upcoming graduation in May, Cassidy said he will explore coaching or playing possibilities. Cassidy has done
his job well at Davidson. He has erected a solid foundation for a squad whose future appears intensely bright. Cassidy
the player may have made his last football performance with the Wildcats on Saturday, but his values will continue to
be prominent as Davidson poises itself for success on the field in the next few years.

“It’ll come around,” said Cassidy, “It’s unfortunate that I can’t be here for it, but I look forward to the
future of this program.” He has undoubtedly been a key figure in developing Davidson football, but he was not alone
this season. Although a small group, the octet of seniors in Cassidy, Bo Bartholomew, Keith Davis, Adam Gess, Tommy Haynie,
Happy O’Brien, Chad Richardson, and Will Robinson all contributed to what Davidson football is now and to what it will
be. They all represented Davidson College on the football field for the final time on Saturday.

Spirit team leaving its mark
By Beth LINDSEY
Staff writer

The Davidson Spirit Team is in the process of conducting a project to create a more festive atmosphere in the
town of Davidson. Team members will be repainting pawprints, now worn away, that were painted on Griffith Street, leading from
Interstate 77 to the college. This time, however, the pawprints will extend all the way to Main Street and into
Baker Sports Complex. They can be purchased by student organizations on campus, and the buyers will then have their names
put on the pawprints.

The idea was presented by Spirit team sophomore Hallie Pitkin, “My friends and I just thought it was a good
idea,” she said. “So many other schools have them, and they would certainly add to the overall atmosphere here at
Davidson.”

There are many different organizations supporting the project on campus. “So many people seem to be really excited about this
project,” Spirit Team advisor Jeanette Scire said. “Most of the fraternities and eating houses have already bought pawprints as have
other student organizations, sports teams, and specific current and past residence halls.”

The Spirit Team hopes to begin painting soon. Most recently, team members were scheduled to start painting very late Sunday
night. “We have scheduled this several times already, but the weather simply has not been conducive to it,” Scire said.
“The roads must be dry and the temperature must be above forty degrees. We also have to do it in
the middle of the night so as not to disrupt the flow of heavy traffic in the middle of the
day. The Davidson police will be assisting us.”

There are still a few pawprints for sale for $50. Anyone interested should contact Scire at x2378 or any Spirit
Team member as soon as possible.

FREE TRIPS & CASH!
Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break
company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL
NOW! (800) 95-BREAK!

WRANGLER FLY FISHING GUIDE
PRIME MONTANA GUEST RANCH IS SEEKING COLLEGE STUDENTS TO WORK FOR THE SUMMER OF 1996 AS WRANGLERS AT OUR CORRALS
OR AS FLY FISHING GUIDES UPON THE SMITH RIVER. MUST HAVE GOOD EXPERIENCE IN EITHER FIELD AND MUST BE WELL
ABOVE AVERAGE IN PEOPLE SKILLS. SPECIAL CONSIDERATION WILL BE GIVEN TO GRADUATING SENIORS. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, PLEASE WRITE TO ELK
CANYON RANCH, 1151 SMITH RIVER ROAD, WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS, MONTANA 59645.
