a

16

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1995

Tough teams mean tough losses

From STAFF REPORTS

After its longest stretch of the season without games, the men’s soccer team returned to the field last weekend for
a couple of games against very tough competition.

MEN’S SOCCER

On Wednesday, the Wildcats traveled to Chapel Hill to take on perennially strong North Carolina. The Tar Heels were too
strong once again, shutting down Davidson’s offense and taking a 3-0 win.

Over the weekend, Davidson headed for Columbia, SC, for the South Carolina MetLife Soccer Classic.

Saturday, the Wildcats (6-8-1) fell 3-1 to St. Louis, ranked fifth in the country in the latest polls. The Billikens
jumped out to a quick 3-0 lead and held off Davidson for the rest of the game. Isaac Stewart got
the club’s only goal on a pass from Ian O’Brien.

Sunday, the Wildcats faced off against New Hampshire on the tournament’s final day.

This week, Davidson hosts an important conference match Tuesday against Appalachian State at 6:15 p.m.

The team hosts Wake Forest on Saturday at 2 p.m.

The squad only has two more games after that before the Southern Conference tournament here at Davidson.

The men’s soccer team needs some good ’ol home team spirit and support this weekend after suffering three losses to
Chapel Hill, South Carolina, and St. Louis.

File photo

HOME GAMES THIS WEEK

Men’s soccer
Tuesday vs. Appalachian St. 6:15 p.m.
Saturday vs. Wake Forest 2 p.m.

Women’s soccer
Wednesday vs. Wake Forest 7 p.m.

Field hockey
Monday vs. Louisville 4 p.m.
Saturday vs. Radford 2 p.m.

Rugby
Saturday vs. St. Andrews 1 p.m.

Baseball — a game restored?

By Matt Pitzer
Sports Editor

When Joey Cora and Ken Griffey, Jr. came racing around third base and tumbled toward home in the 11th inning
one week ago to give the Seattle Mariners an improbable first-round playoff win over the New York Yankees, baseball was
a game restored.

When the entire Mariners squad charged out of the dugout for a wild and exuberant celebration in a massive pile
atop home plate, baseball was a game restored.

When Randy Johnson picked up three wins in less than a week and the Mariners captured four win-or-go-home games, baseball
was a game restored.

It was a game restored to its proper place as the most thrilling of all sports and as the one
that still holds a special place in all of our hearts.

For too long, the game has been boycotted by a few, defended by some, and ridiculed by many. The most
recent cause of this outrage, of course, was last year’s abysmal labor struggle that canceled the World Series.

But the real root of the game’s problems really goes back further. It goes back to Vince Coleman’s firecracker-tossing days.
It goes back to the days when the Darryl Strawberrys and Dwight Goodens came into the league, had a couple
of good seasons and thought they were better than the league, better than the game itself, and better than the
world in general. Some people even say trouble started with free agency, which helped prompt astronomical salaries.

None of that mattered one week ago. None of that mattered to Joey Cora, who executed one of baseball’s simplest
plays, the bunt, to perfection to start the winning rally; or to Edgar Martinez, who drove home the winning runs
and is a representative of baseball’s growing Latino community; or to Yankees manager Buck Showalter, who singlehandedly blew the game
by staying with his starting pitcher too long.

What mattered that night was that fans across the country sat riveted to their televisions as the game entered the
late innings and entered extra innings. What mattered that night was baseball was being played, and being enjoyed, the way
it was always meant to be.

As Yankees pitcher David Cone told the media late Sunday night: “You hear the rap people put on the modern-day
player — I, I, I and me, me, me — well, this series was anything but that. If this doesn’t
do a lot to diminish the greedy ballplayer image, I don’t know what will.”

Now, if we could just watch more games on TV ...

Write for Sports. Talk to Schoon -2148.
