14 THE DAVIDSONIAN | ARTS & LIVING - MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1995

Sweet Music of Inspiration
Davidson Symphony Orchestra strikes chord with Fall Concert
By JAMES BERRY
Music Critic

With a rustle of restrained movement and last-minute whispers, John Williams’ Olympic Fanfare and Theme slowly rumbled from the stage.
The music soon rose with majestic intensity as the brass and percussion sections flew above the carpet of strings. And
still, the person next to me cuddled up, using her jacket as a pillow, and promptly fell asleep.

While the trials of Davidson weigh heavily on some, I think most of the audience, whether required to watch the
performance or not, was firmly engaged by the ordered mass of bodies and instrumentation filling the stage in Love Auditorium
last Thursday evening. Like most of Williams’ work (such as the popular movie scores from the Star Wars trilogy and
the Indiana Jones movies), Olympic Fanfare and Theme’s strength was in its melody. The piece wavered between quiet string arrangements
and full-force assaults led by the brass and percussion. It was the only piece performed that evening that really took
advantage of the brass section and did so with vigor.

The second piece, Adagio from Symphony No. 1, came from the mind of our own Dr. Richard Prior - who
was also conducting the symphony. From the program, we learn that, “the Adagio is elegiac in nature, deliberately assuming language
and gesture that temporarily diffuses the polymetric and chromatic framework dominating the rest of the symphony.” Need I say more?
Actually, this was the most interesting of all the music performed if only because it left the listener wondering what
could happen next. Starting out with slightly dissonant strings, the piece featured a couple of short flute and oboe solos
that helped anchor the listener to a definite and more familiar form of melody. It later opened up into a
rather pleasing chord progression, releasing much of the tension that the sluggish dissonance had previously built up, before returning to
its textured beginnings.

Possibly the most exciting of the five pieces was Felix Mendelssohn’s The Hebrides, op. 26. I learned after the performance
that Mendelssohn was carefully placed before the intermission because the performers' hands were often too tired to continue. With the
dynamic and fast-paced nature of this piece, I’m not surprised. Simply watching the movement on the stage was amazing in
itself, as each of the performers danced around the strings (or along their keys or across their slides) to create
such a frenzied sound. My neighbor woke for a short five minutes during intermission before returning to her slumber. No
matter how loud the applause, she seemed content enough to hold her ground.

The second half of the concert was again dominated by strings and featured a selection from Handel’s Water Music (Suite
No. 3 in D). Light and cheerful, the piece...

Ed’s Top 10
Movie critic lists his all-time favorites
By ED EAGLE
Movie Critic

Writing a top 10 list is never easy. I decided to write one this week for two reasons: I didn’t
have time to go to a theater, and quite frankly, I felt no driving urge to rush out and see
the latest Jim Carrey flick. Originally, this was to be a “Ten Greatest Films of All Time” article, but then
I decided that was just a wee bit too presumptuous. Finally, I settled on a list of my 10 favorites,
most of which are available at a Blockbuster near you.

10. Citizen Kane. This film many have called the pinnacle of American filmmaking. I think that Welles’...Technique will never be
matched, but I also think that there was a certain coldness at the heart of the film which is a
bit too difficult for me to get past.

7. The Untouchables. Unbelievably heavy-handed, this film is saved by some of the greatest sequences in any film. The baseball
bat scene, the Battleship Potemkin homage (the baby carriage slipping down the stairs), the final confrontation between Frank Nitti and
Elliot Ness — together they are all a potent combination.

8. The Star Wars Trilogy. I know, this is an obvious one. Most people cite this as one of their
favorites. I'll agree with the masses.

7. Blau Ochre. If you have to ask, then you aren’t one of the enlightened. You’ll laugh, you’ll cry, you’ll
wonder how in the hell those crazy kids ever got Officer Dave to allow them to film from inside his
cop car.

6. The Adventure of Winnie the Pooh. A classic. This compilation of the Walt Disney short films of the 1960s
was the first movie I ever went to see. Watching it again now, I think it’s funny how many of
my friends I can see acting just like the characters. Who’s Pooh? I’d say Rob Kosicki, but it’s a certain
beverage (not honey) which is always getting Rob in trouble.

5. The Godfather. The first one in the series remains the best. The gradual corruption of Michael Corleone ranks as
one of film’s greatest tragedies, culminating with a brilliant baptismal sequence at the end that I’ll never forget.

4. The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly. This is the ultimate spaghetti Western. There are so many close-ups in
this film (directed by Sergio Leone) that you’ll feel like a fly through most of it, but it all works.
The Ennio Morricone score shows just how important sound is to film.

3. The Three Amigos. So bad it’s glorious. This send-up of The Magnificent Seven overflows with some of the worst
jokes and set pieces a Hollywood production has ever contained. I hated this movie so much when I first saw
it that I had to see it again. Only then did I realize its true genius. See if you don’t
find yourself humming “My Little Buttercup” as the credits roll.

2. Jaws. Steven Spielberg’s first, and greatest, feature film, this revisionist telling of Moby Dick, is also one of the
best buddy flicks of all time. The sequels all pretty much stunk, because they didn’t have the original’s sense of
adventure, instead they just focused on the killing. This one is as much about the quest for the shark as
it is about the blood. And who can ever forget “Duh duh. Duh duh. Duh duh duh duh duh duh
duh.”

See TEN on page 15.

---

A New and Exciting Place for Hair & Nail Services
20430-2 Norman Crossing Shopping Center
I-77 Exit 28, behind Wendy's
895-0404
20% Student Discount with Davidson College ID
*Please specify Master Designer when calling

---

The last piece was Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart’s Symphony No. 25 in G minor. The longest of the five selections chosen
for the performance, this piece became somewhat repetitive and predictable. It seemed as though the melody became less important when
held up to the obviously more interesting musical scale which drove much of the piece. Please keep in mind that
this comes from a person who’s still fascinated by the fact that all the violin bows rise and fall in
synch. The Second Fall Concert of the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra closed with a roar of applause and a promising
future; it even made enough noise to wake the girl sitting next to me.

Roy Hobbs fulfilling boyhood dreams in The Natural.
