THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1995

Dougherty starts PET for Peer Education

By ASHLYN DANNELLY
Staff writer

Senior Hal Dougherty works at a drug education center in Charlotte, where he sees effective peer education programs at work.
Those programs encouraged Dougherty to start the Davidson College Peer Education Team, which will tackle a variety of issues ranging
from substance abuse to HIV education.

In a recent meeting attended by students, faculty, and staff, Dougherty outlined his ideas concerning the program. He hopes the
team will use word of mouth to spread “educated gossip.” He says, “When Muffy gets a new Saab, the whole
campus knows within three days. But, when Muffy feels like her roommate has a drinking problem, what are the steps
Muffy needs to know? My point is that Muffy knows she could probably go to the Counseling Center. But how
can Muffy learn to communicate with this person while taking care of herself? Wouldn’t it be great if Muffy could
be able to approach a friend about the issue and know that friend could give her practical advice? This information
needs to become the new form of gossip.”

Dougherty sees peer education as “innovative. It is the modern, effective way of spreading educational information. It is used by
some of the foremost universities across the nation.” Dougherty realizes that other sources of information are available on campus through
various organizations. But, he says, “this program will augment the efforts of PE 101 and all the other student programs.
Most student efforts focus on a specific issue and a specific group. PET will work on many issues and cater
to everyone... you listen to your co-worker or your friend and take it to heart more than you would with
a formal speaker. The issue becomes more personal.”

Dougherty hopes that the education effort will benefit students, faculty, and staff alike. He aims to have representation from all
those groups. The team would participate in a monthly training session on a specific issue. As a result of the
training sessions, team members would be armed with useful, pertinent information to pass along to their peers. Dougherty says, “I
want people to walk away with maybe five practical pieces of information and two sources of referral, not just facts
and figures... for instance, people should know that if they are going to have unprotected oral sex, they should not
brush their teeth before and should not swallow, thus reducing the risk of HIV infection. We don’t have the medium
to get information like that out. We need people who can say stuff like that.”

Dougherty was pleased by the response to the meeting. He says, “I wanted to approach a group of people with
the idea and see if it was something they would find interesting... I felt encouraged that there was enough interest
to provoke questions.” But organizing the group is a daunting task. This semester the group will work primarily with organization
issues, and training sessions will begin in the fall. Dougherty says, “Now that there is demonstrated interest, we have to
work on structure, statement of purpose, possibly modeling our resources together, and to work together with other departments of the
college to better utilize the funds and resources that are available.”

Layoff from page 1

During this process, Mr. Brantley says that “Part of the review included a review of the positions within the Physical
Plant. It was concluded that the Physical Plant could work without those positions.” Collins said that some positions were eliminated
because he realized that people were not working full time with their skills. To accommodate this, Collins decided to hire
people out on a contracting basis instead of having full-time positions. He says that this is a process that any
contracting business has to go through.

Collins said that the operating budget of the Physical Plant is going to remain the same for next year. He
said that the cost of supplies and materials is “higher than the Consumer Price Index” and these are costs that
must be met. Collins says, “More money had been going to the personnel area [of the Physical Plant] in the
last couple of years,” and he had to shift more money for supplies and materials.

The anonymous source says, “We always felt job security to be good at the college. We never expected a layoff.
People are still a little scared here. The whole aspect of our jobs has changed. We are doing things differently
here now than we were last week.” The source also says that “Mr. Collins hinted that more layoffs in the
larger community could come in the future.” Collins says he “wants for workers to feel secure, but they should always
be concerned if their position is essential. We must remain competitive with the outside market and good management maintains this
competitiveness.” He believes those workers who “are working a hard day's work” should feel secure. Collins does not “anticipate” any
changes in the immediate future. Brantley says, “I would hope that this would never happen again.”Collins “wants to ensure that
we don’t have fluff” and thus feels changes are sometimes necessary. He does not want to be a “Maytag repairman,”
meaning that he does not want to have people who do not have a job to do. He says, “We
want to be here because we have work to do.” Collins says that he got recommendations from people in all
levels of the Physical Plant to find ways to become more efficient. Brantley says that the Physical Plant “tried to
spread out the people being laid off, so one area would not be impacted.” Collins says, “Most of the employees
felt that the right decision was made, but just had a question of who was fired.”

Careers from page 3

replacement. “I think that the placement function of this person who's supposed to replace me in the careers office is
going to suck up so much of that person’s time and energy that that person isn’t going to be as
free as I have been for the last four years to work with individuals on individualized plans of experience. There
is no question in my mind that Experiential Programs ought to be central to the function of Career Services. I
think that’s the direction Career Services is going these days, and I think that’s exactly where it should be as
it relates to career development in terms of internships, externships, mentoring programs, and things like that that have a career
focus. But experience-based learning is just too big and too powerful to be confined to Career Services.”

What about the future? Wood sees the need for Experiential Programs to have an increasing academic role as the twenty-first
century approaches. He explains that if Experiential Programs were to strengthen its role in this arena, then it would need
an organizer. “Academic departments such as biology and political science have experiential programs, but they are scattered and sometimes not
well coordinated. I would like to see a person pull them together. The person hired at career services is not
going to have time to work with those departments. If there was an office of experiential programs staffed by a
person who had a richer background than I have in pedagogy, then I think that that person could help service
programs, the Bonner program, Reach-Out, faculty members, and this whole institution incorporate experience more fully into the developmental mission of
this institution. I am not leaving this institution with any feeling of loss. I am very much excited by the
careers office continuing to have experiential learning as an important part of their mission, but I feel like that’s only
part of the power and the potential of experience-based learning, and it could be much more widely utilized on this
campus, but it may not be more widely utilized if this office is allowed to die and if I am
not replaced by somebody who has the background to work with faculty.”

Senior Hal Dougherty, Co-Chair of FLAG, continues to raise awareness at Davidson with his initiative to establish a number of
Peer Education Teams. Dougherty wants a large base of people for the team. “Anyone who people get along with and
listen to is welcome.” Since Dougherty will graduate in May, he particularly encourages underclassmen to attend the next meeting, which
will be on Thursday, March 16 at 4:30 p.m. in the Conference Room of the Union. Dougherty says, “We need
to get the other folks, people that work in maintenance, painters, cooks — people like Rosemary, who works in the
Café and talks to so many people about different issues. It would be great to educate people like that about
these issues so they can pass it along.”

Campus Interviews March 2

If you possess excellent communication skills, general market knowledge and the desire to excel, sign up for an on-campus interview
on March 23, 1995 in the Career Center. If you are unable to arrange an interview call: 1-800-937-0606 or send
resume to:

OLDE Discount Stockbrokers
National Recruiting
751 Griswold Street
Detroit, MI 48226

OLDE DISCOUNT STOCKBROKERS
Member NYSE and SIPC
An Equal Opportunity Employer

Port Village Shopping Center
Hwy 150 West of I-77
Mooresville, NC 28115
Mon-Fri 9-6; Sat 10-2

When you need copies fast, come to Mail Boxes Etc. Your Mooresville MBE Center has state-of-the-art photocopying equipment. Whether you
need one copy or 5000, you can make them at MBE. You can also have 24-hour access to the copy
machine. So, if you need to, you can copy round-the-clock. That's convenience!

(704) 663-8833; Fax: (704) 663-7193

UPS Authorized Shipping Outlet

10% OFF CUSTOM PACKING SERVICE OR PACKING SUPPLIES

Offer Expires 5-31-95
