THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, APRIL 24, 1995 9

David Santschi

The challenge of on-line government

Much has been written about the benefits and services available over the Internet. Most students at Davidson enjoy the free privilege of communicating with others on the Internet and using Internet services. Scientists and academics have long used the Internet to exchange information. Baby Boomers are fascinated with this new technology and seem eager to exploit its power, mostly for personal or entertainment uses.

The Internet is more than a way to keep in touch; it has political implications as well. However, few have thought about the effects the Internet could have on the American political system. Most members of Congress have Internet addresses where constituents and interest groups can voice their opinions more easily than ever before. The power of instant, faceless communication to influence decision-making is staggering. In a pluralistic system where access to vast amounts of information is critical, the Internet is second only to the computer in the new technologies influencing government. As more homes and institutions are connected, the Internet will change American communities much the way the telephone, automobile, and computer have in the past. The Internet will not destroy American civilization, as some have predicted about past inventions, but it will bring great changes.

The obvious result of increasing on-line access to government is the ease with which anyone can contact an official. It costs almost nothing to send an e-mail message to a representative or senator. Before the Internet, people had to be motivated and willing to pay, in both time and money, to contact their representatives. Now typing a message is costless and requires little time. Those who have a small stake in an issue now have more incentive to make their views known. Interest groups will flourish with this efficient, free access, much as web sites have multiplied on the Internet. Using the Internet in this way will overwhelm representatives with a great diversity of opinion; they will feel compelled to respond to more and more interests and lose sight of overall goals.

E-mail will have a significant effect on legislative responsiveness. Monitoring on-line communications will lead to a type of direct democracy that the Founders did not intend. Increased access means that representatives will become more aware of what constituents want, especially the “silent majority” who are becoming more vocal using e-mail. In Internet forums, the will of the people can be known and measured instantly. Legislators, given the irresistible temptation and immediacy of e-mail, will be pressed to react to whatever people send over the Internet instead of dispassionately analyzing policy. Representatives may no longer be a cautious buffer against swings in public opinion.

This awareness will expand what representatives are expected to do. With constituents more willing to contact their representatives, more demands will be placed on staffers’ time to respond to requests. The scope of government may be broadened unconsciously without any force to counterbalance all the demands for action on e-mail. Local concerns may override national priorities.

The tone of policy debate will change with increasing use of e-mail. Writing in the Los Angeles Times, Janny Scott argues that people “feel freer when talking electronically” because of the impersonal nature of the medium. She contends that “the language people use on a computer is spontaneous and uninhibited.” This may lead to more candor. But it may also descend into a rude dialogue of sound bites peppered with coarse jokes. Policy decisions are complex; the short messages encouraged by the medium of the Internet may discourage intelligent dialogue. Also, e-mail does not allow for conversation or argument, and it minimizes interaction. There cannot be honest, responsive debate unless the users are connected in real-time. Use of e-mail to relay political messages may oversimplify issues and lead to hasty, ill-considered decisions.

E-mail, because of its immediacy, shortcomings as a medium, and tendency to expose raw emotion, should not be the dominant means of influencing government and gauging sentiment. This is not to suggest that Internet use will stop or that it should stop. Expansion of the Internet into political forums is inevitable, but its full effects will not be felt until most of the American people have access to it. These effects on priorities and debate should be carefully weighed before relying heavily on “public policy by e-mail.” According to Michael Schrage of The Washington Post, “The future of the Internet will reveal an awful lot about the future of America.”

Sarah Webster

The Endangered Species Act: No grounds for guns!

When I decided to go south for college it was mostly for warmer weather and a friendly atmosphere. I have since, however, come to appreciate another perk particular to North Carolina. The coastal plain of North Carolina, east of the North Carolina piedmont, hosts several species of plants and animals specific to North Carolina and its longleaf pine forests. As a biology major, I have grown to appreciate this area for its uniqueness as well as its beauty.

In addition to its beautiful scenery, the coastal plain provides a home for many of North Carolina’s 42 endangered species. The destruction of habitat necessary for the survival of these species is the main reason for their low population. As a result, many of the remaining healthy populations of endangered species in North Carolina are located on the military bases that dot the Coastal Plain. Military bases have been protected from logging and development, both of which are leading causes of habitat destruction. Thus the military possession and protection of this property has also led to the protection of many endangered species that rely on mature forests. Unfortunately, however, the coexistence of endangered species and the military has not been harmonious. The red-cockaded woodpecker, endemic to North Carolina, is an example of this conflict. HabitatRequirements for this species of woodpecker consist of mature longleaf pines in which birds excavate a cavity nest. This species is in danger of extinction because many longleaf pines have been exposed to logging. As a result, many existent longleaf pines are too young and narrow to house the red-cockaded woodpecker. In addition, the heartwood of younger trees is dense and difficult to excavate. However, excavation is much easier in older trees because the heartwood has been softened by decay. Another habitat consideration involves the social system of the red-cockaded woodpecker. This species lives in groups containing one breeding pair. Although each member of the group maintains a separate roost cavity, it must be located close in proximity to allow members to assist in incubation and feeding of the fledglings. To ensure a healthy reproductive rate, pine forests must have clusters of longleaf pines that can accommodate group members.

Although military bases seem to be an ideal location for these restricted populations, they present additional danger to already endangered populations of the red-cockaded woodpecker. Tanks and firing ranges also populate the areas in which this endangered species seeks refuge. At Fort Bragg, lines of red tape mark where military traffic is forbidden because it lies within 60 meters of a nesting cavity belonging to a red-cockaded woodpecker. In 1991, the US Fish and Wildlife Service shut down the base’s $20 million firing line in order to protect a population of red-cockaded woodpeckers. These protective actions are the mandate of the Endangered Species Act of 1973. This legislation maintains the authority to penalize anyone who disturbs or threatens a listed species.

So why are endangered species at risk on government properties? In response to many actions taken by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to investigate activities at Fort Bragg, many military officials are raising questions about the priorities of the United States government. They maintain that conducting a training regime on areas chopped up by red taped zones is impossible. Military specialists grumble that the base should look like a battlefield and that current standards of the Endangered Species Act go against military doctrine. Rather, they would like to see the remaining longleaf pine forests in North Carolina turn into war zones so that young troops can have the true battlefield experience. As a voice for these endangered woodpeckers and all those endangered species that seek refuge in the Coastal Plain, I say NO.

Although many people, military included, do not understand the importance, nor the cost, of this rare species of woodpecker, its value is multi-faceted. These aesthetically pleasing birds contribute to the richness of the North Carolina coastal plain. Also, the moral view that all species have a right to existence is a popular plea. More lucrative explanations, however, reflect a more utilitarian viewpoint. This justification relies on the possibility that endangered species may hold a yet undetected cure for cancer. For whatever reason—beauty, morality, or medicine—the Endangered Species Act is a breath of fresh air and a reflection of proper prioritization. In support of the red-cockaded woodpecker, and many other endangered species in North Carolina and throughout the United States, I urge you to support the reauthorization of the Endangered Species Act and alert your senators about your concerns regarding the safety of endangered species in your home state.

Denali from page 7

I will never be a trustee. I am a Jew. I am not the only Jew at Davidson. Muslims go to school here as well. Students of many faiths go to Davidson, and like so many Davidson graduates before them, make great contributions to the college and society. Moreover, the Statement of Purpose includes several phrases that contradict the Christian trustee policy. First is the edict of openness: “The loyalty of the College thus extends beyond the Christian community to the whole human community and necessarily includes an openness to and respect for the world’s various religious traditions.” Evidently, the College does not earnestly apply this statement since it does not pertain to the Board of Trustees. In addition, the Statement asserts, “Davidson values its diversity and seeks to be a community that recognizes the dignity and inherent worth of every person.” But non-Christians, regardless of their merits and contributions to the college, are worthy enough only to have their dignity stripped by a policy that denies them the opportunity to make the penultimate donation to the college, to be a trustee.

Is not trust an important manifestation of dignity and community? Is trust not what the Honor Code is about? Davidson promises a community of dignity and openness to its students, faculty, and staff in the Statement of Purpose. Yet, the college does not trust the non-Christian members of its community, or of the outside world, to be competent for the title of trustee. Tragically, Davidson College contradicts its own Statement of Purpose by not allowing non-Christians to be trustees. The real travesty remains, regardless of the college’s conflicting statements. By not allowing non-Christians on the Board of Trustees, the college implies that the contributions of other religions, while socially important, are really not beneficial for Davidson.

I do not want to sound as if I hate Davidson. Quite the opposite is true. Davidson has meant more to me than I could ever give back, which is why it pains me so that I and many other non-Christians, with possibly more to contribute than even some of the present trustees, can never be trustees. Until Davidson College recognizes the trustworthiness of non-Christians as an asset for the future of the college, I refuse to contribute for my senior class gift. I encourage all graduates of Davidson College to make their contributions with the condition that this prejudicial policy be reversed.

Sincerely,
Dan Nechemias, ’95