THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS. TUESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1995

By WILL BRADSHAW
Staff Writer

The lights in front of Chambers and the Christmas trees which have brightened up the Commons are not the only decorations that have helped put Davidson in the Christmas spirit this past week, as the annual hall decoration competition has caused an artistic explosion of yuletide decor. Fourth Cannon (first in the outdoor competition and third in the indoor) and third Richardson (first in the indoor competition and third in the outdoor) were the big winners, bringing in $70 and $60 in prize money, respectively, aside from having fantastic hall decorations. Fourth Watts glorified the upper classes, placing second in the outdoor competition and fourth in the indoor. They were the only non-freshman hall to place in the judging.

“I was stunned, to be candid,” Ben Klein, Chairman of the Mathematics Department and one of the four judges, said. “They were all good, and the top ones were spectacular. I had no idea there would be things quite that astounding.” The contest, according to Klein, was judged by three criteria: theme, effort, and the extent to which the theme was realized in the decorations. The theme for third Rich was the Dr. Seuss classic How the Grinch Stole Christmas, and fourth Cannon used the North Pole as a theme. Another interesting theme was encountered on third east Belk, where the hall residents threw all their red and green clothes in the hall and titled their display “After the party.”

“We deserved it [high placement in the competition],” Nachette Carter, a resident of third Rich, says. “We worked all day. I didn’t go to class or anything. The whole hall put in effort, and everybody contributed. Everyone decided where it could be improved.” Carter’s hallmates Kristin Russo, Stephanie Eichenbrenner, and Amanda Covington said the hall came up with the idea for the Who-ville/Grinch theme as a unit. “We wanted to do something different, and we were just spitting out ideas. We were going to go with the 12 days of Christmas, but then we came up with this [the Grinch theme],” they said.

Fourth Cannon used a different plan, but came up with similar results. According to Alexis Wood, a resident of the hall, the theme was the last part of decorating. “Kimberly [Baird] mentioned something about decorating the hall. They did snowflakes, and I said why don’t we put up reindeer. There are eight partitions in the hall, so I said why not put up eight reindeer. The right half was outside scenes, and the other was inside with a fire and the big candelabra. Then, when the judges came through, we got out our sleeping bags and had Caroline [Hubbell] read us a story,” Wood said. “The theme [North Pole] was the last thing we did.”

The placement in the outdoor competition was: fourth Cannon, fourth Watts, third Rich; and in the indoor competition: third Rich, Basement Rich, fourth Cannon, fourth Watts, first Rich, with special effort awarded to second West Belk. These results display the dominance freshmen women’s halls had in this competition. “I guess the freshmen halls are more cohesive,” Klein said. “They have hall counselors whose job it is to rally the hall. But I don’t really...”know why there is such a difference between the men’s and women’s halls. There was certainly a glaring disparity. We’d walk through the women’s halls and see them decked out, and we’d walk through Belk and see virtually nothing.” In addition, Jen Williams, a resident of fourth Watts, said that one of the main reasons they did so well is that the hall was made up mostly of people that were on the two freshman halls that won last year. “We were all really excited about doing it again,” she said. “And everybody really worked together on it.” Second west, the lone male hall to place in the contest, was decorated mainly, according to hall residents, by Stowe Beam and James Baird. “We are very proud of Stowe and James’ room,” Saad Gul, one of the hall counselors, said. “They decorated together, and it was a very good effort on their part.”

The halls all have different ideas on how they are going to spend their prize money. Fourth Watts plans to spend part of it to send Christmas cards to troops in Bosnia and may give some money to a soup kitchen or to wrap or buy presents for needy children, according to Williams. Third Rich, after they pay for the things that they bought, is going to have a Christmas party, according to Covington, Russo, and Eichenbrenner. Fourth Cannon doesn’t know what they will do with their money, according to Wood. “The competition is a lot of fun. It helped my hall get together and decorate for the holidays. It is great to do something fun before finals, and it’s also nice to come up to the hall and relax and feel a little at home. The girls will probably start getting homesick a little now and want to go home, so it will be nice to have the decorations,” said Amy Lindstrom, a hall counselor on second Cannon.

The judges were Klein, Bill Felty (Career Services), Carissa Jakob (Chemistry), and Annette Reagan (Dean of Students).

Remember to recycle paper, plastic, aluminum, and all those old notes from the semester that you would otherwise throw away.

We offer the following Summer 1996 Programs for any student who would like to study abroad.

THE CHAPLAIN’S OFFICE WILL SPONSOR

Australia, Sydney . June 20-August 5
Italy, Florence . May 16-June 27
Italy, Florence . August 9
France, Paris . June 30-August 10
Russia, St. Petersburg . May 9-June 29
Germany, Berlin . May 13-June 29
Greece, Historic Sites . May 18-June 18
UK, London . June 29-August 9
India, Bombay . May 14-June 14
UK, London . June 27-August 8
UK, Oxford . July 5 - August 17

Martin Luther King, Jr., Annual Worship Service & Gospel Songfest
January 15, 1996
8:00 P.M.
Love Auditorium
Rev. Casey Kimbrough from Carmel Baptist Church speaking

CONTACT US FOR MORE INFORMATION!
Duke University
Tel: (919) 684-2174
Fax: (919) 684-9083
E-mail: skay@mail01.edm.duke.edu