THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1995

400 students support

By Apa Hickey
Staff Writer

Frustrated by a lack of adequate facilities and the disunity this promotes, ISA and Dean Rusk sought student support for the idea of bringing international interests under one roof. The ISA is circulating a petition which roughly 400 students have signed, and the number is growing. Students who sign the petition are agreeing to the statement at the top, which in part states, “I [the signer] would make use of [an international house].”

Yet Dennis Seavers, co-chair of the International House Committee, a division of the International Students Association, concedes that not all the signers are aware of the fact the house will be formed for non-international Davidson students as well. “It will be a difficult job to convince students it’s for all students, not just internationals, but I think it can be done,” he said.

Dr. Shelly Rigger, a faculty advisor of the ISA, stated, “There are too many populations involved to justify [that misconception].” Dennis Seavers, co-chairman of the International House Committee, a division of the International Students Association, stated the group wants “a place where there can be a... particularly international social atmosphere.”

“Right now there’s no unity for internationally concerned programs,” he says. “No real place where students can hang out on campus. The Union is program-oriented... International programs are spread out, and that encourages separation.”

The ISA and the Student Advisory Council to the Dean Rusk Program are collaborating on a proposal which would devote one of the college properties located on Main Street to the two programs. The house would be for social and program use, as well as contain office space.

Ambassador Ken Brown, Director of the Dean Rusk program, initiated the efforts earlier this year with a memo he sent to Dean of Faculty Robert Williams. The ISA joined forces with Dean Rusk shortly thereafter. Besides ISA and Dean Rusk, she feels the house will benefit students who plan on going abroad, students who are taking a foreign language and desire more exposure, and all other internationally concerned students.

A formal proposal has not yet been submitted to the Facilities and Planning Committee, the group that would have final say on the proposition. Dr. John Kelton, Committee Chairman, stated that while it has not yet become official business, “we are aware it’s coming.” Though no official statement on the idea can be made at this point, said Kelton, “My sense is that it will be considered with a positive view about it.” He stresses, however, that other suggestions have been made for the use of the house in question, and they will be weighed as well.

Cost is a major factor. Giving the house to an organization would leave the College with one less residence for faculty use and would result in a loss of revenue. Moving the house, which is currently located on Main Street near the Exxon station, would be an expensive project, and so would connecting the computer and phone access needed for the offices involved. A date for submitting the final proposal has not yet been set.

In addition to the petition, supporters plan on gathering letters from faculty in support of the idea, along with other indications of student support. Estimated cost and approval from Deans who supervise both programs are other items Kelton would like to see in any proposal that reaches his Committee. Despite the complexities involved, Rigger summarized the overriding goal, “We’d really like students to have some place where they’d be comfortable vegging out for about half an hour.”

WATCHING ’EM WIN, David Dwyer, Owen Covington, and Matt Wachen watch the soccer tournament from the nosebleed section. Rob Kosicki.

Administrative exchange was learning experience

By Matthew Eirich
News Editor

Sheryl McGinnis enjoyed her stay at Davidson last week. Dr. David Staton enjoyed his trip to Spelman College two weeks ago. The two participated in aPilot administrative exchange program between the two schools. Former Assistant Dean of Students John Eaves “really set this up,” says Dean of Students Tom Shandley. According to Shandley, Davidson approached Spelman, a historically black, all-female college, because it was “looking to establish a relationship with a historically black college.” While stressing that this exchange was only evaluative, “a pilot,” to see how productive such a program could be, Shandley says, “We'd like to do it again.”

McGinnis is the Assistant Director of Career Planning and Placement at Spelman and was on campus from Sunday through Wednesday. While she noted “some obvious differences” between the schools, she also spoke of the goals common to both institutions. “There is a commitment to academic excellence and a commitment to developing the entire student,” she said. “The total product is a good one.” McGinnis appreciated the difference of leaving a place in which she was in the majority to one where she was in the minority. “It keeps us open to learning new things,” she said.

Director of the Student Health Center David Staton visited Spelman from October 15 through 18. He was impressed with the “real sense of history” and “real sense of family” he found on campus. He noted the good “teamwork” and “good connection” between student life and academic life. Professors were really involved in the extra-curricular lives of their students, according to Staton. “There was interaction between all parts of the community. While she noted “some obvious differences” between the schools, she also spoke of the goals common to both institutions. “There is a commitment to academic excellence and a commitment to developing the entire student,” she said. “The total product is a good one.” Staton admired Spelman’s Convocation Credits which he compares in some ways to Davidson’s PE 101 program. Convocation Credits are programs and events which students are required to attend in order to graduate. According to Staton, the programs offer information which will prove important and valuable in the long run, even though they cut into equally important study-time. Spelman students were also very interested in Davidson’s Honor Code and in creating a similar code in their community, according to Staton. On a personal level, Staton appreciated the acceptance he found at Spelman. “To go to a place that is historically black and to make connections was a very gratifying thing,” he says.

Troiano, Boylan to the Big Apple
By Mary Laura Moretz
Staff Writer

Seniors Nick Troiano and Pete Boylan will spend a weekend on an all-expenses-paid trip to New York City, where they will talk to some of the top business executives in the world. Troiano and Boylan will be among 200 students from all over the world who will gather from November 19 through 21 to discuss the changing business world. Business Tomorrow International will host the students plus 100 major business executives. The Foundation for Student Communications, an organization originally started at Princeton, read the applications and selected Troiano and Boylan to attend. Executives will speak about subjects, including “Evolving Management Styles,” “Changing Corporate Culture,” and “Diversity and Innovation.” After the speeches, the students and executives will divide into groups and discuss these issues. Of the opportunity, Troiano says, “I’m thinking about pursuing a job in New York, and this is just something I’m interested in.” Associate Director of Career Services Bill Felty adds, “This is going to be great for their careers, but also a great opportunity to get their opinions into the mix.”

CHESS TOURNAMENT
The Davidson College Chess Championship will be held this Saturday in the Union Conference Room. Call John Ballard if interested at 6733.

Treat Yourself Today!
Sculptured Nails * French Manicures
Pedicures * Tanning Booth

At The Duchess we offer you a day of stress-free pampering.
Tanning Special: 10 visits for $33.00
New addition to our store: Facials by Peggy
CONNIE AND MICHELLE: Full Set of Nails for only $40.00 (thru February)
Located at the Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St., Cornelius
(704) 892-7030