SPORTS - 10 - TUESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1995

Davidson to host women’s national team
By WILL BRADSHAW
Staff Writer

The U.S. women’s national soccer team will battle Germany in an exhibition at Richardson Field on March 16 at 3:30 p.m. There is a possibility that the match will evolve into a doubleheader pitting the men’s national team against a yet-to-be-determined opponent.

“This is very exciting,” says Lee Sargent, Davidson’s game management director. “This [the women’s game] could be a potential Olympic final; they are no doubt two of the best four teams in the world. It’s just a question as to who is best at a certain time.”

Sargent says that he and his staff are still hoping to get the men’s game, but that has not yet been arranged because they still lack an opponent. The games would be part of the teams’ preparations for next year’s Summer Olympics in Atlanta.

“It would be great to have both teams, because they are basically the men’s and women’s Olympic teams,” Sargent says.

In addition, Davidson was not selected to host the women’s NCAA soccer Final Four. UNC-Greensboro was chosen from the finalists to be the host site. Davidson’s bid anticipated 2,000 more spectators than UNC-Greensboro’s, and the experience the college has had at running tournaments in the past should have given the committee confidence in the budget Davidson proposed, according to Sargent.

He also says that the Spartans’ athletic director is on the committee that selects host sites for the men’s tournament, and the women’s coach is on the committee selecting sites for the women’s tournament.

“We got politicked out on this one. We needed to get a little more inside on the committee than we did,” Sargent says. “We can’t handle events with 22,000 people [the number of fans the NCAA men’s soccer Final Four attracted this year in Richmond], but we are really good at 10,000 to 15,000.”

According to Sargent, Chris Petrucelli, the women’s coach at Notre Dame which recently won the NCAA soccer championships, said that he would have loved to have the tournament at Davidson, and he couldn’t believe that the college didn’t get it.

In other news, the dorms will re-open on January 13, a day earlier than usual because the men’s and women’s basketball teams have home games on that day. Sargent says there will be special prizes given away at the game, and that the athletic foundation is trying to organize a barbecue party between games and the sports marketing office may give away a spring break airplane ticket at that function. Sargent also expressed his happiness with fans' enthusiasm.

“The kids were great again yesterday,” he said, in reference to the fan support in the women’s 85-39 thrashing of Barber-Scotia and the men’s 80-84 loss to NC State.

Wild Turkey: A Christmas tradition
By JOHN ROE
Staff Writer

On a crisp autumn morning not too long ago on the day before Thanksgiving, I was walking along an old dirt road that emptied into a series of soybean and corn fields.

THE GREAT OUTDOORS

As I neared the edge of the first field and crossed a row of trees, my eyes caught a glimpse of an incredible sight. Unlike anything I had ever seen before, a flock of wild turkeys lingered not 30 yards in front of me. In the middle of the flock, nearly 15 hens pecked and clucked as if just getting on with business. Scattered about the flock were a few young jakes, proud in heart, but lacking in grace and wits as they stumbled along. And then there were the magnificent gobblers, draped in coats of bronze and crimson, strutting behind as if they were the proprietors of the field. I was taken aback by this sight, for it was the first time...I had ever seen a wild turkey. Sure, I had seen the typical farm-raised turkeys before, and I had on many previous Thanksgivings partaken in the fine white meat of the farm-raised type, but never before had I seen or tasted nature’s version. Upon seeing these magnificent birds, I thought of Thanksgivings long ago when our distant ancestors sat down with a cornucopia of food before them. There would be potatoes, fruits, plump vegetables, and fresh bread; but, in the middle of the table,

See Turkey on page 12

Wildcats packed by NC State
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Staff Writer

After beginning the season with three consecutive victories, Davidson experienced a serious shooting slump this past week, falling to UNC-Wilmington and NC State.

MEN’S BASKETBALL

The Wolfpack came to Belk Arena on Saturday afternoon unbeaten, but its three wins came against Virginia Military Institute, Winthrop, and Wofford. Against its toughest foe so far this season, the ACC school came away with an 84-80 win. Said NC State coach Les Robinson, “The level of competition was up today.”

Robinson’s gang met Davidson’s challenge and effectively controlled the first 10 minutes of the game, leading 21-12 with 10:55 left in the first half and 26-17 at the 9:15 mark. The Wildcats clawed back, though, utilizing a 15-2 spurt to claim a 32-28 lead with 5:05 left before halftime. Ray Minlend sparkled, tallying nine of Davidson’s 15 points in the run. But an important Todd Fuller hoop with four seconds left in the first period gave the Wolfpack a 40-38 edge at the break.

Carrying that momentum, NC State began the second half with a 19-5 tear, pushing its lead to 16. “We had a period of eight to 10 minutes where we ran empty on offense,” said Davidson coach Bob McKillop. “It was a combination of not just us missing shots but the shots they hit.” And NC State shot well from behind the three-point arc during its sprint, hitting five shots in as many attempts. Curtis Marshall (18 points, 5 assists) netted three, and Jeremy Hyatt (16 points, 7 rebounds) and Danny Strong (17 points) contributed one each.

The final portion of the game became a case of time running out on the Wildcats' comeback attempt, which shaved the lead to the final margin. At the end, NC State converted its necessary free throws to seal the victory. “Give [NC State] credit; they made their threes in waves and made their foul shots when they had to,” McKillop said. And because of that, the Wolfpack escaped Belk Arena with a hard-earned victory over a Davidson squad consisting of many of the same players that beat the Wolfpack in Raleigh on their way to a National Invitation Tournament bid two years ago. “For us to come to their court and beat a team that beat Ole Miss is a plus for our team,” Robinson said.

Despite the win, Robinson was not entirely pleased with his team’s effort, citing excessive turnovers, sloppy ball handling, and inconsistent offensive output as areas of concern. “None of [our players] really played up to their potential,” he added. The NC State miscues made it possible for Davidson to stay in the game and make it somewhat exciting in the final few minutes. Brandon Williams led the Wildcats' attack with 19 points and 8 rebounds, while Minlend chipped in 17 and a career-high 10 boards. Quinn Harwood and Narcisse Ewodo added 16 and 15 points, respectively. Chris Alpert and Ali Ton split time at point guard, combining for 8 points and 9 assists. But the Wildcats were ultimately done in by their poor shooting. Despite taking an incredible 30 more shots than NC State, the home squad shot just 33 percent from the floor, while the Wolfpack hit for 49 percent.

See B-ball on page 12