2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1995

Gullan promises more interaction

By Jason McMULLAN
Staff Writer

Together with Vice President Warren Buford, SGA President Bill Gullan hopes that the student government can take a more hands-on approach to campus affairs this year. “Taking decisions out of a political environment and putting them in the hands of people who are interested and enthusiastic about making progress and changes” tops Gullan’s agenda.

Gullan plans to increase senate meetings to two per week. “The second won’t be an official meeting; attendance will not be mandatory, and minutes won’t be taken. Instead, I hope it will be a town meeting-type thing, with more student interaction.” Gullan also stresses that all SGA meetings, the first scheduled for Tuesday, September 5, are open to anybody who wishes to come.

Increasing student government activity also rests in the new Student Advisory Councils (SACs). An integral part of Gullan’s campaign last year, the new process will form SACs to talk about problems and discuss ways to make campus organizations more student-friendly. Current plans will set up councils with the directors of three departments: Residence Life, Campus Safety, and Auxiliary Services. The committees will be formed by the end of this month.

The positions will be permanent so that members really become aware and informed about campus issues, and to build a sound relationship between students and administration. Gullan would also like to form an ad-hoc committee to discuss drinking and driving both on and off campus. He will present plans to utilize the Rides Committee to help the impaired get home safely, which would greatly expand the duties of the committee beyond transportation to the airport during holidays.

Gullan also hopes to finalize plans to allow cigarette sales on campus, extend Cat card use to local businesses, and form a campus beautification/preservation committee. Emphasizing involvement for this year, he states, “We’ve made an attempt since January to get active and represent the student body, and the best way to ensure that we continue is to get involved.”

Food Share Program offers discount groceries for service

By Robert Briggs
Staff Writer

Davidson students looking for a way to stretch their food budgets are well advised to look into the Food Share Program. The Food Share Program is a service-for-food program sponsored by the Ada Jenkins Community Center in Davidson and is conducted in conjunction with an area grocery distribution warehouse. The program is open to all members of the community, including college students. Any person willing to pay $15.05 at the beginning of the month and contribute a few hours of community service is eligible, regardless of socio-economic background, race, or nationality. In return for their time and monetary investment, participants receive $25 to $30 of grocery products at the end of the month.

The service portion of the program may range from writing a letter for an elderly person to delivering groceries to the home of someone who is physically unable to shop for himself or herself.

Correction: In an article last week, The Davidsonian reported that the median SAT score for the Class of 1999 was 1190-1270, when really it is 1190-1310. Anyone interested in participating inThe program for the month of September should call Lena Connor at 892-9566 after 4:30 p.m. to arrange a time to bring money and place an order. Connor stresses that the program will accommodate anybody willing to participate, and that it is a good way to help yourself and your community at the same time.

One of the new additions to campus this fall includes an access ramp on the north side of Chambers.

Felicia Leborgne Davidson updates to meet Disabilities Act requirements

By CATHERINE HART & ANDY ARMSTRONG
Staff Writers

The campus may seem a little different for returning students this year. Members of the Physical Plant were busy over the summer repairing and adding to many of the buildings on campus. Besides general maintenance, David Holthouser and Davidson’s maintenance group had to make changes to comply with Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements. Most noticeable are the ramps added to the outside of Chambers. This was done in order to make classrooms more accessible for handicapped students and visitors who previously had to enter through the rear entrance across from the library. A similar ramp has been added to the guest house thanks to a grant which was given to the school by the Duke Foundation.

Also in response to ADA requirements, Davidson has added braille numbers to many of the buildings, including all of the dorms. This project, which has been in the planning for over a year, was put off until now because of its immense scope and high cost. Other colleges have been going through the same changes fulfilling ADA policy. According to Director of the Physical Plant Bob Collins, the project was not completed earlier because “there’s a tendency to wait and see how the problem can be best addressed.” The most cost-efficient method Davidson found was to train its own maintenance people in the production and installation of these signs. They began with a method that required the use of two pieces of plastic. They felt this was the best method because the pieces were different colors and therefore stood out. The braille, however, was easily scraped off, and the dots had to be replaced. In order to minimize costs, the college came up with a new process, one in which only one piece of material was used and the braille was indented in the background piece. This and most other work this summer was done by David Holthouser and his maintenance group.

Along with changes made to meet ADA requirements, the school responded to faculty requests to update classrooms. Many rooms now have video projectors and other technological advances. Bob Collins believes that this renovation is an ongoing process and that “those classrooms will be the first of many to come.”

Hours:
10-5 Saturday
10-8 Monday-Friday

The Union will now be providing a telephone information service to keep us on top of all Union activities. It’s called the Union Hotline. Dial 2579-*-*-52144

Davidson's Complete Outdoors Store
September 2-9
20-40% off
20% off All boats on sale
Call for prices

WELCOME BACK STUDENTS!

OUTDOORS Etc. Ltd
Telephone: 892-1848

LABOR DAY SALE
All hiking boots, backpacks, and sleeping bags
Tents and Black Diamond climbing ropes
Shops on the Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn