THE DAVIDSONIAN

Women’s Lax
notches first
Win Over
Longwood

By PAOLA LEAL

Sports writer ®

The women’s lacrosse team faced three tough matches this week, dropping two but beating Longwood Saturday on Parent’s Day.

WOMEN'S LACROSSE

The Wildcats lost 9-5 Tuesday against Roanoke. But freshman Katie Nelson said, “The score does not reflect how well we played in the game.”

Davidson next fell 15-4 to Bucknell on Wednesday. But the squad finished the week on a good note with their first victory of the season against Longwood.

After the game, the team and families celebrated the win with a tailgate party.

The team’s record now stands at 1-6. The Wildcats' next game is at Richmond Saturday.

Men’s lax loses tough game

A shorthanded men’s lacrosse team suffered a tough 3-2 defeat Sunday afternoon at home, losing when Appalachian State scored with about 30 seconds left in the game.

MEN'S LACROSSE

The Wildcats (0-2) played with just 10 players in the first half, which didn’t allow them any substitutions. When Jeff Scherer pulled muscles in his shoulder, the squad was forced to play a man down for the entire second half.

The biggest losses included starters Cart deBrux and Will Chung. Sean O’Neill, husband of Classics Professor Jeanne O’Neill, has been playing with the team much of the spring and helped pick up some of the slack.

Scherer and Anthony Mackaronis scored in the first period and Davidson held a 2-1 lead at halftime. But the Mountaineers came back and tied the game, then won it off a good play on the fast break.

The Wildcats had a chance to tie it again but missed a shot with 10 seconds left.

Sarah Hogan leads women’s charge.

Rob Kosicki

Fishing in the calm of a rushing river

By JOHN ROE
Sports columnist

As I walked along the bluff on my farm in Montgomery County in Tennessee, I looked down only to see the raging, muddy, overflowing Red River.

I kept on walking, my tackle box and fishing pole in hand, hoping I might come upon a calm spot to fish. It was a warm afternoon in early March, and I knew the fish would be hungry. But with the conditions of the river, it wasn’t likely that I would catch a spare tire — much less a fish.

I finally came upon a small feeder creek where I often fish in the summer, but I had never had much success in early spring. Nevertheless, I walked to the shoreline, tied on a floating Rapala and cast to the adjacent bank.

I started to retrieve the lure across the middle of the creek when BANG, a fish hit it. After a respectable fight, I had a one-and-a-half pound largemouth bass in my hands.

This was the first of about 30 largemouth and striped bass I caught that afternoon. Because of the river’s flooded conditions, the fish had moved up into the calm creeks where they could feed without using too much energy.

Also, because the creek was shallower than the river, it warmed much more quickly in the sun. The majority of the fish I caught were suspended in the back-water area of the creek, where the muddy water meets with the clear water.

This situation brings food right to the fish’s nose, kind of like room service. Now you tell me, if you were a hungry fish, where would you rather be — in the swift-moving river or in the creek?

All of these factors contributed to the full stringer of fish I carried home that night. On a day that did not look promising, I accidentally stumbled into a great fishing situation.

Now that I know the conditions that caused that exciting spring afternoon of fishing, the next time I fill a stringer of bass in that creek, it will not be by accident.

Whenever you have a successful day on the water or in the field, note the conditions and try to figure out what contributed to your success.

Learning from successful or unsuccessful outings will help you plan your trip for the next time, and you will spend much more of your time actually catching fish than cursing the weather or your rod and reel.

Although this particular trip was in Tennessee, the same conditions and fishing tactics can be used on rivers in North Carolina.

The only thing you have to do is be observant and try out that fishing hole you have been waiting to fish all winter.

CRUISE JOBS

Students Needed!

Earn up to $2,000+ per month working for Cruise Ships or Land-Tour companies. World Travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Seasonal and Full-Time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call:

Cruise Employment Services

(206) 634-0468 ext. C53632

Cooke

from page 14

Cooke says the squad played well, and, now, he hopes it carries over to the upcoming Southern conference games.

Wake Forest returns to Davidson for a rematch Tuesday and then the Wildcats travel to UNC-Asheville Thursday.

After a road series with Furman next weekend, they have three consecutive weekend series at home.

Amici Pizzaria now has a new Eat-in Dining Room! With pool table, jukebox, cigarette machine. We also offer new & delicious dinners, including a variety of tasty pastas. And as always, Amici still has great pizza, hot and cold subs, hot Italian subs, and Philly Cheese Steak sandwiches.

College Special: Tuesday and Wednesday nights, get $.90 cans of beer w/ Davidson I.D.

Friday Nights starting at 10:00:

Live Music and Free Admission. Look for food specials on these nights.

*As always, your Davidson I.D. gets you 10% off all food and beverage items*

211 N. Griffin St. Sadler Square. Phone: 892-4570