OPINIONS. MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1995

Christina Thomas

Society’s overdose on sexual harassment

I’ve just returned from seeing the play Oleanna with my mother, and I am furious. Yes, calm Christina is furious. I realize that this play (I hope) was an exaggeration of the wave of sexual harassment cries flooding our country, but it was a good, symbolic representation of our times. And what about our times? That is, after all, what I’m really writing about.

I am a woman, I enjoy my femininity, and I am behind the traditional women’s role in society. By saying this I do not mean that I think women should always be at home cooking. I mean to say that I still believe that men should be respectful of women, open the doors for them, and be the suitor in most relationships. It aggravates me that women seem to be trying to prove that they are men. I’m sorry folks, but this is planet earth and there are only two genders here, not one. They are different—just open an anatomy book or study a little about hormones.

The worst thing about this equality fight is that women, yes I said WOMEN, are making the world a land mine for men. This sexual harassment thing has gone way too far, most especially with women in the workplace. All right women, we’re out here in the workforce, and we can’t take little comments by men about sexually related topics or how we look? Stop! Before you go off on me, yes, I know that there is definitely serious, real sexual harassment out there. If anyone should know about it, I should. I work with the male-dominated workforce of EMS, Fire, and Rescue in this county. I’ve stood in the middle of an emergency room and had a paramedic tell me in front of God and everyone else exactly what he’d like to do to several of my body parts, after he’d ripped open my outer coat to get a better look at me. Yes, I'd classify that as real sexual harassment, but if a guy is just hitting on you ("Why won’t you go out with me, babe?”) that is not grounds for a suit. I’m sure if you were interested in that guy, you wouldn’t be offended. Besides, let's face it, being a little more open about their sexual desires is a guy thing. Do guys sue us for doing that female PMS thing and treating them like dirt once a month? No, but why not? It may offend them.

I’m sorry girls, you are female, and guys don’t shut their hormones off when you enter the room. Guys are becoming so paranoid that it’s making life terrible for those of us who don’t believe that every guy is a perverted rapist. Some guys that I work with won’t give me a hand with my rescue gear just because they’re afraid I'll cry “sexual harassment” if they accidentally touch me—and we’re supposed to be a team! Ladies, if you want to be treated like men, and/or are “Oleannas,” tattoo a big equals sign on your forehead and start wearing a patch with the letter “S” on it, like in The Scarlet Letter (to stand for Sexually Harassed), so that guys will know which ones of us want to be treated like ladies.

Holt Vaughan

We are everywhere

We are everywhere. We hide behind our scholarly glasses to fool you. We camouflage our muscles with preppie clothes and dull our smell with fashionable cologne. We are in your classes. We write the same papers you do. We eat at the same places as you, and we study just like you. Many times we surround you, and you don’t even know it. Are you scared yet?

I would tell you what we are, but I am too afraid. I am afraid you will give us a stigma. You will perhaps isolate us from your normal activities. You might avoid us. Who are we? All right, I guess I should tell you. We are, well ... we are athletes. No, that’s not quite right, we are student-athletes. Ah yes, that’s better, I got it off of my chest.

You see, it’s not that I’m embarrassed. No, that’s not quite it. I think it’s just that I’m scared. I’m scared that this knowledge might fall into the minds of the wrong people. It could fall into the minds of the ignorant, naive, and condescending professor or student. Okay fine, I have a slight chip on my shoulder. My problem is that I think Davidson student-athletes do not get the respect they deserve. Perhaps it is just me, but sometimes I sense disapproval.When I go into a professor’s office to tell her/him that I will miss a class for a tennis match, I feel intimidated to even share this information at all with them because I am scared of the stereotype. “He’s an athlete,” they might think. No, I’m sorry, that’s not true. You see, I am a student first who just happens to be an athlete. In fact, I think that all the student-athletes on campus are students first who just happen to be athletes competing at a Division I level. Terry Holland, our Athletic Director (the best in the nation by the way), preaches many times in speeches: “Division I needs Davidson more than Davidson needs Division I.” I can’t agree with this statement more. Davidson student-athletes personify the original intentions of the NCAA. The Davidson student-athlete is different than many other schools. We came here for an education first. I think many times, at other schools, the athletes are athletes first and hope to get an education if possible. It is unfair to categorize these athletes with the student-athletes of Davidson. Our participation in sports should be considered no differently than a hobby of any other student. Because essentially that’s what a sport is—a hobby. It’s something that we love doing very much, and it is something that we all work very hard at. But it never should, never has, and never will be prioritized over our education. I don’t think you will find one student-athlete at this school that will do so. If they do, they typically aren’t here very long. I am a firm believer that the true student-athlete has an advantage over the non-student-athlete. We are better prepared for life after graduation. We are competitive. We are disciplined. We handle pressure well. We can give and receive criticism. And, most importantly, we are pursuing an education with just as much drive as everyone else at this college. People cannot afford to criticize the athletes here because there are too many of us. Criticizing us would be criticizing close to one-third of the student body. Is it really plausible, or a legitimate argument to say that a Davidson student-athlete is not the student the rest of the non-student-athletes are? I think not. We are an integral part of this student body. We are everywhere. And the scary thing is, most people don’t even know who we are. That’s fine. You don’t have to know. In a way, that’s kind of a compliment.

Ken May

What a cryin’ shame

First of all, let me begin by saying that I’m not entirely sure how I’m writing this article. Apparently, I’m thoroughly deaf, dumb, and blind as the newly christened Helen Keller of Davidson. Maybe I’m just thinking all these words, and none of you are really hearing anything I say. At least that’s the distinct impression I get from the recent response to my “Wildcat” article. Let’s get this straight. I never once said, or even hinted, that Davidson fans should not cheer whole-heartedly for the men’s basketball team. Nor did I say that one should not invest “one’s heart, soul, lungs, voices, and hands to that very vital support.” Nor did I say we shouldn’t “display the same wild enthusiasm and spirit that our players and coaches display.” For those who wrote responses and anyone else who doesn’t believe me, please reread my article thoroughly this time. Calm your hostile emotions for a second and actually listen to what I do have to say. I did, and still do, say that berating referees, players, and coaches is completely unacceptable and unbecoming of Davidson College students. Despite not sharing a seat on the bench with the team, my extremely limited experience reminds me that, fairly or not, entire communities are judged on the sportsmanship of their teams and fans. Malicious fans can forever blemish a school’s prized reputation. Supporting one’s team is exactly that, supporting one’s team, not nailing the opposing team. Derision and taunting have absolutely no place in the game of basketball. So listen, there’s one more home game for the men’s basketball team this year. You have my unequivocal blessing to go and cheer your hearts out. That’s what I’ll be doing (despite my “white gloves”). But if you are among the few who still insist on berating the opposing team, so be it. You are the ones that will have to live with the reputation you make for yourself! By the way, much thanks to the dozens of people who read and supported my article. It's good to know that somebody still reads for comprehension these days.