THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, APRIL 24, 1995

The Davidsonian
* ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
MANDY CURTIS
JEFF KENT

Opinions Editor
DAVID SANTSCHI

Copy Editors
ROBERT RAMSAY
TERESA WHITE

Arts & Living Editors
JACOB ABRAHAM
WILLIAM ROBERT

Associate Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
KATHERINE HASH
RUSS TARVER

Sports Editor
MATT PITZER

Advertising Managers
WALT BARRON
CAROLINE BYNUM

News Editor
MARY CLARE JALONICK

Photography Editor
ROB KOSICKI

Assistant News Editor
MATTHEW EIRICH

Circulation Manager
CRAIG MURPHY

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Waiving the FLAG

As we speed without brakes in a car whose destination is “The End of the Term,” and as another class
prepares to graduate, leaving its home of the last four years, the question of what lessons we will take away
from Davidson becomes an important one and one that we who remain should ask. Hopefully, this process will illuminate the
fact that college is about more than studying and partying, that the most important lessons are learned outside the classroom.
Hopefully, these lessons will extend beyond textbook knowledge and give us support and guidance as we confront the difficult moral
issues which constantly confront individuals living in our society. Hopefully, we will realize that the most important lesson we will
learn in our time at Davidson is how to overcome our differences and get along with others.

Unfortunately, however, these hopes for open-mindedness and acceptance seem not to have been fulfilled — at least in Davidson’s past.
Several letters printed in the Spring 1995 issue of the Davidson Journal detail the opinions of older alumni who condemn
the existence of FLAG, Friends of Lesbians and Gays, on campus; one of these appears in its entirety on page
four of this issue of The Davidsonian. These individuals express amazement and disgust at the “acceptance and ... introduction of
gay culture” at Davidson. They quote Scripture passages which process conformity as the only route by which an individual may
“inherit eternal life.” One goes so far as to say that because of the current awareness about gay and lesbian
issues and concerns, “I will always be proud that I [graduated] from the 1950 Davidson. I will never feel this
way about the 1994 Davidson.”

Many of these alumni base their arguments against FLAG — and hence against open-mindedness and acceptance in general — on
religious grounds. They assert that a Presbyterian college founded on Christian ideals ought not to allow, much less support, such
a blatant violation of Biblical mandates. Evidently, these individuals have forgotten a basic tenet of Christianity articulated by Jesus as
part of the supreme commandment: “Love your neighbor as yourself.” Jesus didn’t say, “Love your neighbor as yourself unless he
or she is gay, in which case banish him from society.” Rather, open-mindedness and acceptance were two of the most
important lessons Christ taught both in word and in deed, and to exemplify these ideals is to truly be a
Christian. It seems, then, that to accept and embrace gays and lesbians as they are is to follow the teachings
of Christ, who himself defied traditional mores by interacting with Gentiles, lepers, and others which society shunned. It seems that
as a religiously affiliated college, our moral duty is to espouse Christ-like open-mindedness and acceptance of all of our differences.
And this, as one of the alumni letters states, “is not an option.” Above all, in our roles as individuals
living in a world which emphasizes diversity, we must champion our open-mindedness and acceptance of our individual differences as the
most important lessons we take from our time at Davidson — lessons in the fundamental human activity of getting along
with others.

MAY 1, HAVE FUN!
Fun/f, but SAFELY
teh VObick Cur he eed NA Unpe RAGE
Branding IRONS DRINKING ArrKove D. BINGE Suir SERING

FROLICS ‘95 WAS A ROUSING SUCCESS MADE even MORE FUN WITH THE DEBUT OF THOSE EYE-CATCHING BRACELETS.

FROLICS OF THE FUTURE, make a Yonnse’e, once SEMI-PERMANENT BAR CODE Tattoos FOR EVERYONE

LETTERS

Cultural diversity, Davidson style

To the editors,

“Cultural diversity!” screams the Dean of Students. “Cultural diversity,” reminds the registrar. “Cultural diversity!” proclaims the president. “Cultural diversity,” symbolized
by crosses on the lawn of Chambers. Hardly. Davidson College policy has injected the term “cultural diversity” into the familiar
language of its students and employees apparently in an effort to broaden the minds of those who work and study
on the Davidson campus. Appreciation of diversityis a noble and worthy endeavor for every thinking person, a pursuit which invites
the destruction of stereotypes, ignorance, and insensitivity. Diversity, however, is not a word that comes to mind when imagining an
academic building adorned with Christian symbolism. Without question, crosses erected to celebrate the salvation of Jesus Christ are in line
with the religious affiliations of the majority of Davidson students. Undoubtedly, the construction of crosses for the Easter season is
well-intentioned and not designed to suppress any other religion here. The problem lies in the placement. Why are crosses placed
in front of the main academic building? Surely the church 100 yards away is a more appropriate place. Chambers is
the one place where every student can expect to spend some time. No other building stands as a physical example
of everything that Davidson intends to be. Yet crosses, the supreme symbol of Christianity, stand in front of this building.
There must be at least one person on this campus who is not a Christian. The diversity expressed in the
composition of the student body is done a disservice when the views of the many are forced upon those of
the few. Forced is a strong word, but is another applicable? Three seven-foot wooden crosses are firmly planted in the
ground of the lawn shaded by the school’s primary academic building. Further, of the four sides of Chambers, the trio
of crosses stand between it and every one of the school’s residence halls, meaning that every trip to class for
every on-campus resident is highlighted with Christianity. The world is currently experiencing a communication revolution which is quickly making this
planet a very small place. Strange and unique cultures, environments, and religions are now exposed with a few clicks of
a remote control. The global village is a reality, and it is our duty as citizens of the planet not
to exclude the smallest minority. The Davidson experience is attempting to taste the many flavors of the world’s variety but
is obviously unable to swallow. Crosses in the most public place on campus do not create an ideologically open atmosphere
for the few minority groups this school has been able to attract. Davidson is a traditionally Christian institution tucked into
a traditionally Christian region and nation, but this must not hinder the spread of the world’s wealth of diversity.

Sincerely,
Cormac Conner ’95

Trustees are required to...

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices
are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or
commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

According to the by-laws of Davidson College, the Board of Trustees shall consist of men and women who are active
members of the Christian church. Presumably, this policy seeks to achieve several objectives. It recognizes the Presbyterian roots of Davidson
and alleges to continue the ethos such a heritage establishes. The perpetuation of such values occurs because theoretically, deeply Christian
trustees will enforce policies that reflect such character. Another common argument suggests that changing the policy so that non-Christians could
be trustees would cause some Christian alumni to stop giving money. These arguments carry very little merit for me. Until
the current Board of Trustees repeals this rule, I will abstain from giving my senior class gift to Davidson College.
Requiring trustees to be Christian is not only exclusive and anti-semitic, but also is contrary to the Davidson College Statement
of Purpose. The Board of Trustees oversees the operation of the college and consists primarily of men and women chosen
for either their wealth, power, or dignified status. To be a member of Davidson College’s Board of Trustees, one should
possess outstanding character, common sense, intellect, and the ability to raise money. Are these traits present only in Christians? I
could be the most successful alumnus of Davidson College ever. I could be the Chief Justice of the United States
Supreme Court in 30 years, but I could...

See Denali on page 9
