THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 1995

Snyder meets her bone marrow recipient three years after saving his life

By Mary Clare Jalonick

In April 1993, Senior Megan Snyder donated bone marrow to a 44-year-old father dying of chronic leukemia. After communicating for two years, Megan finally met her recipient, Richard Soucey, last Thursday. That night, the two talked before an intimate crowd about their experience. Megan told her part of the story, describing the operation and her feelings as it neared. Soucey gave his thanks to Snyder, describing her as “the link that makes me whole again.”

Davidsonian News Editor Mary Clare Jalonick interviewed Snyder and Soucey to give those unable to attend the event a close and personal look at the impact and importance of the Davidson Bone Marrow drive.

When you had your bone marrow typed, did you ever consider that something like this could happen?

Snyder: No, I really didn’t even know what it was.

Did you ever have any doubts about doing it?

Soucey: It was all excitement. At first I didn’t really know [about the procedure], and I was told by friends that it was extremely painful. It turns out that they used to take the marrow from the spine, but they took mine from the pelvic bone, and it is now much less painful.

So there were never any doubts?

Snyder: There was never any pressure from the Red Cross; they essentially try to talk you out of it. But for me, it was something I wanted to do.

Was there a risk of death?

Snyder: Only the general risk from anesthesia.

When did you find out who Rich was?

Snyder: At first I only knew his first name — when I got a letter from him [in the hospital]. After a year, I got his full name and address, and we wrote and talked on the phone.

Project Life Photo by Rob Kosicki
Megan Snyder and Richard Soucey, the recipient of Megan's life-saving marrow.

Did you really think that you had a chance of finding a donor?

Soucey: At first I was confident that I would, but then [the Red Cross] kept finding initial matches and then the second or third test would prove reactive. It got to the point where I really didn’t know, it was becoming a pattern. The more times that that happened the less sure I became.

Did you ever think that you would meet Megan?

Soucey: Certainly. We were destined to meet.

Were you both a little nervous about meeting?

Snyder and Soucey: Yes, definitely.

What does it feel like to know that your blood is keeping him alive?

Snyder: If he was to have his blood taken, he would be typed as a female. He even has my allergies now — it’s kind of strange to think about.

Some people would call you a hero.

Snyder: Rich’s situation seems a lot more heroic; I was just lucky enough to have a match in the first place. It’s just neat to know I saved someone’s life.

Scholarship created for environmental awareness

By Mary Clare Jalonick & Russ Tarver

Students for an Energy Efficient Environment, a global awareness organization, has created...A scholarship for those students who want to increase environmental awareness at Davidson. The “on-campus internship” gives students concerned about environmentalism on their campus a chance to do something about it. Those accepted will receive $1,000 spending money in addition to funds to create environmental programs at their individual schools. The winners will also travel to Washington, D.C. SGA President Eric Rosenbach believes that this scholarship can be significant to Davidson. He says the college needs inventive minds to focus on environmental problems because “there is a definite lack of environmentalism on campus.” The application process is “relatively easy,” says Rosenbach. Students must get a faculty recommendation and write an essay. Those who are not science studs can breathe easy. “You don’t need experience in a particular academic area to apply,” Rosenbach stresses. Students interested in applying for the scholarship can contact Rosenbach for further details. Those wishing to contact SEEE directly can call (617) 493-6271. Its E-mail address is “fine@susc.harvard.edu.”

Raffle Drawing to name the Outdoor Basketball & Volleyball Courts:
Wednesday, February 1
7:30 p.m.
900 Room
Your ticket must be present for you to claim the prize.

A unique culinary experience of fruity wines and delectable entrees. Start with creamy melted cheese fondues. Fondue flavored Chicken, tender Filet Mignon, Teriyaki Marinated Sirloin and Seafood with a variety of tasty sauces. Top off the event with a mouth-watering chocolate fondue dessert! Reservations Suggested. 334-4400

MELTING POT
901 South Kings Drive
Open every night from 5:00 p.m.

SLAC holds first meeting
By Mary Clare Jalonick

The Sophomore Life Action Committee — SLAC — held its first informal lecture Thursday for sophomores interested in becoming hall counselors or resident advisors. Current hall counselors and R.A.s attended the meeting in order to give sophomores a little insight into their jobs. According to Sophomore Class President Warren Buford, “The idea of SLAC is to get students to talk to students.”

In the meeting, students discussed the rigorous application process, hall counselor roommate selection, staying at Davidson for the entire junior year, and enforcing the alcohol policy. The speakers all encouraged sophomores to apply. Hall Counselor Bob Bailey spoke of his duties, saying that reaching out to freshmen helped him “get back in touch with Davidson.” Hall Counselor Bill Gullan told the group that he has formed unique friendships with those on his hall and compared the experience to being abroad in that “you learn to approach things in a different way.” Resident Advisor John Hollan told the group that his job “is a good chance to know your classmates.” He pointed out that his job differs from a hall counselor because of the role of confidant.

Sophomore senator David Wick looked favorably on this first meeting. “It was a good discussion. We generated something very positive.” Buford adds, “I think they answered some questions sophomores could not find out at the Residence Life Office. If we can get more people to come to the next meeting it will be even better.” Topics to be discussed in future SLAC meetings will include study abroad plans, summer work plans, and major selections.

'Due it in the Dark!