THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1995

FOR THE RAIN IT RAINETH EVERY DAY

Hey, ho, the wind and the rain created a huge puddle quagmire in the middle of the field hockey/lacrosse field next to Baker.

Rob Kosicki

NC Bio-tech gives Campbell money

By Patricia Evans

Staff writer

The North Carolina Biotechnology Center, an organization which fosters biotechnology education in educational settings statewide, recently granted Assistant Biology Professor Malcolm Campbell a $45,000 award for one year. With the grant, Campbell will turn Davidson’s biology laboratories into a DNA research center for the use of students in his molecular biology class.

Students working with Campbell will work to discover where the four antibodies in a chicken bind to protein that acts as a calcium “pump” in the flight muscles of chickens. The results and research in Campbell’s course will aid in research at Johns Hopkins University. Dr. Doug Fambrough of Johns Hopkins will provide Campbell with the DNA and antibodies needed to begin the research conducted at Davidson. Forty thousand dollars of the grant will go towards purchasing equipment for the research. The new equipment will shorten result time by two to five hours, giving results in only three hours — the length of a biology lab period. The other $5,000 will go towards chemicals, glass, and plasticware necessary for the experiment. In the future, Davidson College will provide funding for this aspect of the project.

The grant affords students a unique research opportunity. Campbell explains, “It’s exciting for me because I don’t know the answer to the question; and hopefully, it will be exciting for students because they’ll be doing cutting-edge research and discovering the answer to a scientific puzzle.”

Nominate your favorite professor

By SARAH TEACHWORTH
Staff writer

The Hunter-Hamilton Love of Teaching Award exists to show appreciation for the professors who show extraordinary interest in their students. Its selection committee is now inviting students and alumni to nominate professors.

James P. Hamilton ‘54 and his wife, Grey Hunter-Hamilton, founded the award four years ago. Past winners are Economics Professor Emeritus Charles Ratliff, Biology Professor Jeremiah Putnam, and Spanish Professor J. Alberto Hernandez-Chiroldes.

The recipients each receive a $10,000 prize, which is split evenly between the professor and his or her department. In this respect, the award benefits the school as a whole as well as the individual instructors.

Nominees need not be the flashiest lecturers, best dressed, or most entertaining. The selection committee is particularly interested in professors who have demonstrated concern for their students on an individual basis both in and out of the classroom.

Students should nominate teachers who have made an overt effort to get to know them by name and explain complicated class material and have instilled in them the desire to learn and grow. Nominees must be full-time members of the faculty who have been teaching at Davidson for at least five years.

March 15, 1995 is the deadline for the submission of recommendations. Letters should be submitted to Brenda King in the President’s Office.

Bullet

from page 1

drive away.” They started the car, and the man left on his bike.

They called the police from Carpe Diem, and Browett gave a description of the robber.

The police put out an A.P.B. for the man. An officer named Burke promptly came to the scene of the crime and got a further description.

Having recovered from the hold-up, Charlie’s Angels can only laugh.

Rob Kosicki

Officer Burke took Browett and Halyburton on a high-speed ride through Charlotte after someone with a similar description. The ride ended with six police officers and four police cars surrounding a man on a bike, but it was a different man.

Burke told the girls that he would call them if anything further came up concerning the case.

Browett and Halyburton were shaken up for several days after the incident and found it hard to even drive away.

They can now look back on the incident as a learning experience, but it still remains very scary for them to think about.

Both students want to convey an important message: “Don’t walk around Charlotte at 2 a.m. Pay the money for a parking garage.” From the reaction of the police, Browett believes that robbers on bikes are not a rare occurrence.

Halyburton says, “No matter where you are, get someone to walk you to your car. Somebody usually is willing to do so.”

DUKE UNIVERSITY

Belgium/Netherlands

Summer 1995 Study Abroad

We welcome non-Duke undergraduate participation in our summer study abroad programs. For program information and applications, please contact the Office of Foreign Academic Programs. Most deadlines are Friday, February 24.

India Bombay 6/27-8/9
UK, London-Drama* 5/18-7/7
Italy, Florence 6/29-8/10
Japan, Tokyo 5/11-6/23
Russian 6/10-7/22
Spain 5/9-6/26

*For program information

(919) 684-2174 (919) 684-3083
E-mail: skay@mail01.adm.duke.edu