THE DAVIDSONIAN: OPINIONS - MONDAY, MAY 1, 1995 | 9

Holt Vaughan - Holt leaves us with one last, parting sentiment -

It's hard to prepare for

Today was a significant day for me. For you, it probably was your typical Wednesday: wake up, go to class,
and go back to sleep for a while. For me, I did all of this stuff until I went to
practice, tennis practice that is. At first, it seemed fairly normal. I hunted for my three rackets under my soiled
shorts and socks that hadn’t been washed for days. I routinely tested the tension to see which racket was the
tightest. I threw off my mildewed flip-flops and slipped into my Wilson Pro-staff tennis shoes. I grabbed my cheesy Davidson
tennis water jug and checked for the fungus growing inside that so often happens when you don’t completely drain it
the day before. Jon, my hitting partner, prances in the locker room like he always does, talking his normal smack,
and of course, I smacked right back. After stretching those worn muscles for the umpteenth time, we grabbed a bucket
of balls that we had hit over a thousand times before and headed down to the courts.

The whole time, I tried to keep the workout normal. Jon and I discussed our doubles foes for the coming
weekend, fed each other specific drills, encouraged each other, and gave each other advice. “Stay down,” he would tell me.
“Stay down,” I repeated to myself. Amazingly, even after 16 years of playing day after day, hour after hour, on
that same shot, I still could forget things as simple as staying down. As I hit the same shot again
and again, I eyed the rest of the team wandering their way to the courts. Scott, like always, was one
of the first to practice. Today he was with Dan who must have gotten out of his labs early. Then
came Dave, speaking the same nonsense that nobody could ever understand. Today it was something about Mary Baldwin or something.
I don’t know. Then the rest of the team, one by one, each bringing to mind a certain individual trait.
Finally, about ten minutes later, Coach Frank comes running down with the phone in one hand, barking orders at Brice
with the other. Of course, we all know that Brice hasn’t taken an order from anybody in the 30-something years
of his life. Today, Coach took special interest in “Tiny Tony” by hitting him volleys on the back courts. Meanwhile,
Caroline, the women’s coach, was running around frantically trying to help set up for the Southern Conference tournament. Shortly after,
the women start to meander down. Kimberly and Nicole are gossiping like always about some guy. I hear Carrie mention
to the team that she bought two new bras over the weekend. “Same old, same old,” I think to myself.

Today, since it was the day before a match, Coach instructs us to practice whatever we want. So we all
separate into our groups and work on individual drills. Bill is nice enough to sacrifice his sore back to serve
to me. And finally, Albie comes prancing down the stairs without a shirt, immediately giving me grief about anything he
could think of. Things just don’t seem to change. The two hours fly by. Before I know it, I’ve practiced
every stroke, every serve, and anything else I could think of. I was ready for my match the next day.
Coach then called us all together, going over our schedule for the next day. He tried to scare us into
actually believing we might have a tough match even though every one of us knew it was going to be
a slaughter. That’s our coach, though. That’s his job. And then he said, “I’ll see you tomorrow.”

So, like always, I gathered my things, still trying to think of the immediate concerns like picking up the rest
of the balls. I put a cheap shot in on Ted, exited through the gates, and started climbing the stairs.
I was thirsty, so I grabbed a paper cup from the stack and filled it up. And then, as if
straight from a great Western flick, I downed the shot of water like it was bourbon and wiped the remains
from my mouth with my other hand. The women were still practicing. Coach was still talking to a few of
the guys, and I was done. Not only was I done for the day, but I was done practicing tennis
for my career. It was a humbling experience. It’s an experience of doing something every day for your whole life
— something that you love more than anything in the world, something that has helped form your personality, confidence, and
identity. Now, someone tells you you have to stop. You have to move on to something else. And you have
to listen to them. It’s something you know is coming in whatever you do but then when it does happen,
you don’t realize it until afterward, or maybe it’s just that you don’t want to believe it’s happened. Sure, life
goes on. It’s just a game, a chapter of your life. I knew the chapter was coming four years ago
when I first got to Davidson. I could have told you what day, what time, and what place, but I
never could have told you how I was going to react or handle it. It’s something you can’t prepare for.
It’s just something that happens. All I can say is how strange of a feeling it is. That last day
of anything is so strange because even though everything seems so normal, the same people, same action, and same scene,
you realize that you will never forget the details of that day. You will never forget what the weather was
like, and you will never forget the tension of your racket. Your mind takes pictures without you even knowing. And
the funny thing is, you don’t see the pictures again until months or sometimes years after they happen. That’s when
you realize what life is made up of; just a bunch of memories of the last times you do things
— even tennis practices.

Randall Lee

Korean radicalism

In the summer of ‘90 I distinctly remember a girl asking me after a nice tennis match on a Sunday
afternoon, “Is it that bad?” after hearing that I was from Seoul, Korea. It was a perplexing question,and I was
not quite sure how to answer her. So, almost immediately, with a dumbfounded face, I asked her, “How do you
mean?” Until the ‘88 Olympics, Korea practically did not exist in a global sense. People would have heard of Japan
and China, but probably never would have heard of Korea. Soon after the liberation from Japanese occupation in 1945, the
Korean War broke out in 1950, a battle symbolic of a typical Cold War struggle during which communism seemed to
be emerging as a threat to democracy. Then, from the 1960s to the current time, Korea achieved an economic miracle
of rapid growth and industrialization. As the world became further aware of its existence, media’s attention mainly revolved around something
as conspicuous as a mid-day burning sun, the salient radical student demonstrations throughout the 1970s and 1980s. These massive student
demonstrations were targeted against the government and the U.S. as well. The students felt they had a duty to fulfill
for Korea: to institute a true democratic government. Schools had to close down or professors would have been lecturing to
empty classrooms. Students, exploding with anger and frustration, stood on the streets with bloody bandannas holding provocative signs. Roads were
blockaded as soon as the word came out that a demonstration was going to begin. Thousands of students waited for
their leader to make his speech. The excitement, like a chemical reaction gone wrong, mushroomed rapidly, ready to explode. For
the police, tear gas was their main weapon instead of emotional passion. I remember coming back from school, when all
of a sudden a powerful stench would hit my senses. By the time I got home my eyes would be
swollen red and my throat throbbing in pain. I could never understand how those students stood up against that horrible
gas, continuing to swing their bats at the police, scream their slogans, and ultimately to carry on their mission: to
topple the corrupt government. The radicals would choke and gasp under the wet towels covering their faces without ever once
stepping back. As the government’s actions became more aggressive, the students became more radical. In October 1989, some students raided
U.S. Ambassador Donald Gregg’s house. Students throwing firebombs at the ruling party’s headquarters was not an unusual event. Their anger
seemed infinite. Their courage burned like fire not knowing when to stop. Some took that imagery a step further and
committed suicide by lighting themselves on fire, shouting until the last bit of life was left inside them. In actuality,
however, it was not that drastic all the time. Perceptions like that girl’s, who probably thought Korea was going through
a revolution, were rooted in the media’s limited ability to show only the extremities. Often, people were obstructed from going
to work because of road blockades by the students which always caused a chain reaction in too crowded public transportation
in other areas that were not affected by the demonstration. Nevertheless, although people frowned at those radicals, they never condemned
their actions. The general public, like the students, understood the importance of that “mission.” Korea may have grown economically, but
it never went through any political or social reformation. The government remained behind its times as a military dictatorship which
sought to repress and destroy any opposition. Corruption among high officials existed without shame. For example, former president Chun Doo
Hwan, without hesitation, placed all his relatives in high positions in the government. Park Jung Hee, who was ultimately assassinated
by his own friend, changed the constitution so that he could appoint the electoral college, enabling him to win elections
with 99% of the votes. Park outlawed any kind of union activity, or any kind of organization which opposed the
government; a special institution was established to lock up all radicals without any legal representation. The list of oppression went
on and on. However, oppression was not bound to last. Through the continued efforts of the students, other civilian political
leaders, namely Kim Young Sam (the current President), Kim Dae Joong, and most of all the strong will of the
people, Korea ultimately struck down at least part of the corrupt government. It was not an achievement made overnight like
a revolution. Enduring a harsh and long period of oppression, democratic sentiments steadily grew like a snowball effect to a
destructive avalanche of protests which even the military leaders could not resist. I think it is important to note that
it was a steady change requiring countless sacrifices along with strong will and determination. Currently, Kim Young Sam, the first
elected civilian President, has brought about numerous reforms to uphold his life-long promise to the Koreans. He has effectively established
measures to prevent corruption. He has proposed and passed legislation that forces public officials and citizens to report all of
their income. Before, there were many leeways for one to hide briberies and evade taxes. Kim Young Sam eliminated them.
In addition, a couple of months ago there was a big crackdown of a group of tax officials who had
been slipping tax money into their own pockets. Before, if the police had found evidence of such activity, it could
have been erased from the record with a large sum of money. Also, Koreans are more educated to understand democracy.
Before, they did not understand what were their rights and what were not. A general notion, “corruption rules society,” had
deeply grown into the Korean psyche. It will probably take more than a generation to complete that reform. Koreans, under
the threat of North Korea, had to unify themselves and many times give up their rights as citizens to achieve
the economic success they enjoy now. In that sense, the military leaders had caused fruitful results for Korea. There was,
however, a valuable cost to it: Oppression. What the girl in the introduction thought was a revolution was actually a
natural reaction to oppression. After its economic boom phase, it is perhaps time to look back and correct the mistakes
before making further progress. Without doubt, Korea has great potential and it will be interesting to see how much Korea
advances and what kind of role it will play in the international scene soon once their internal affairs are solved.
