THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1995

Students demand meal-plan reform
Underclassmen want eating options at the Commons

By Adam Hickey
Staff Writer

The Auxiliary Services Committee, a division of the SGA, is attempting to reform the meal plan program as offered by the Commons in an effort to save students money and add convenience. The committee, chaired by Sophomore Class President Buster Burk, is examining the five-meal and 19-meal plans in particular.

Currently, the five-meal plan is offered only to seniors. It allows them to purchase five meals per week in advance at a price lower than what they would pay if using cash. Burk feels that underclassmen would benefit from being offered the plan as well. Those students who eat primarily at their houses or in the apartments but who would still like an occasional meal at the Commons are most likely to take advantage of this plan. At this point, such students only have access to the 10-meal plan, a large portion of which is usually wasted by students only desiring a few meals.

Director of Auxiliary Services Richard Terry agrees the plan has advantages, but he has reservations about hastily making such an option available without further study. According to Terry, the larger 10, 14, and 19-meal plans are priced on the assumption that students will miss a certain number of meals; hence, a lower per-meal price is charged. However, students who purchase a five-meal plan would be more likely to use every meal. The Commons would have to adjust the price of the five-meal plan such that the dining service would not be losing money on the plan. This may require raising the cost per meal so high that it would be almost indistinguishable from the “door price,” or cash price that persons without a meal plan pay.

Terry is also concerned that a large number of students who currently use 10-meal plans would drop to the smaller plan, creating an imbalance which could lead to serious income loss. He concedes that the number of students who would purchase a five-meal plan as opposed to not having one may make up for any loss, but he feels further analysis would be necessary to predict results accurately.

The Auxiliary Services Committee has also pursued the idea of allowing freshmen to choose a meal plan rather than being forced into the 19-meals-per-week option. Terry responds that there are two reasons for mandating that freshmen use that plan. First, the purpose is “somewhat paternal. The college ... is not going to put a first-year student in a situation where he has to make a decision about whether he is going to eat a meal on a particular day or not.” Second, the plan allows a financial “base” for the Commons to depend on from year to year. Terry stresses, however, that profit is not a motive for Auxiliary Services as a whole. The college requires that roughly five percent of the Commons revenue be returned to general college funds. The remainder is used to meet costs. Consistent with this, he stresses the Commons exists to serve students: “If we’re trapping students into a certain plan [without reason], then we’re not doing our job.” His goal is to provide plans which allow students to eat at a reasonable cost while still allowing the Commons to support itself.

Burk and his committee are also planning to investigate other reforms, such as constant orange juice availability, gloves for food-line servers, and longer service hours. At the same time, he praises efforts madeto-date by Commons management; “It’s reformed a great deal in the last few years,” he says.

Shattering the Mirror Myth
Rally, movie, panel highlight Eating Disorders Awareness Week
By Kirsten RECKNAGEL
Staff Writer

Designed to increase awareness of potentially deadly disorders such as anorexia and bulimia, Davidson’s first-ever Eating Disorders Awareness Week concluded last Friday.

The week was sponsored by the women’s eating houses, Campus Forums Committee, Women’s Issues Committee, and Counseling Center. The program boasted several events including a self-esteem rally, a study break screening of the film *Dying To Be Thin*, and a forum featuring a panel of experts and Davidson students who spoke about their experiences with eating disorders.

A small but enthusiastic group of students and faculty gathered in Richardson Plaza Tuesday evening to participate in a self-esteem rally during which participants were encouraged to “trash” those things that made them feel ashamed or angry about their bodies. Coordinator of Eating Disorders Awareness Week Marianna Whitehurst and Assistant Professor of Spanish Magdalena Maiz-Peña led the proceedings. Once Maiz-Peña had offered a few words about the devastating effects of eating disorders, the rally got underway. Items trashed included bathing suits, diet pills, and magazine articles and advertisements suggesting that an individual’s worth is determined by his or her appearance. At the rally’s conclusion, Maiz-Peña voiced her hope that in the future, men and women will learn to use their energy “not to control [their] bodies ... but to create and empower.”

Wednesday night’s showing of *Dying To Be Thin* drew a crowd nearly twice as large as the previous evening’s rally. Students and faculty alike viewed the 35-minute documentary which chronicled the experiences of several recovering victims of anorexia and bulimia as well as their families. *Dying To Be Thin* addressed the common misconception that men are immune to the devastating effects of eating disorders, featuring first-hand accounts by a man who had struggled with bulimia for much of his life, as well as by a husband and wife who had lost their teenage son to anorexia.

The week’s final event, a forum on eating disorders, yielded the program’s largest turnout. Held Thursday evening in the 900 Room, the forum featured a five-member panel which offered information and advice on dealing with eating disorders. The panel consisted of Sue Luke, a counselor and nutritionist from Charlotte, three Davidson students, and psychologist DeWitt Crosby of the Counseling Center. Luke spoke of the deadly nature of eating disorders, explaining the physical and mental symptoms of the illnesses. Luke also discussed the role she plays as counselor to those suffering from anorexia or bulimia.

Next, the students shared stories of their own personal struggles, offering a glimpse of the destruction these diseases wreak on the victims’ families. Crosby concluded the forum, highlighting typical warning signs of eating disorders as well as advising the audience on how to help someone with a disorder. Organizers hope to make Eating Disorders Awareness Week an annual program which offers valuable insight into a dangerous phenomenon. As Crosby explains, the stresses and pressures of college provide a situation “ripe to ignite into an eating disorder.”

EATING HOUSE SKITS
The women of Warner Hall perform for the first-year women as part of Court Tour Saturday, one of the many pre-self-selection events for first-year women.

WRITE FOR THE DAVIDSONIAN. Call The KIP, EIC, CORR, or SCHOON. -2148, DUKE UNIVERSITY

St. Petersburg, Fla. Jan. 12-June 21
Contact us for prerequisites, detailed information, and applications for these
Jan. 31-May 18