RTS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1995

Steppin’, Jammin’, Slappin’, and Clappin’
Step and Jive in the 900 Room
By Laura LEIBFREID
Staff writer

An excited crowd filled the 900 room Friday evening, anxiously awaiting “Steppin' and Jammin',” Winthrop University’s slamming send-off to Solidarity Week. Six fraternities and sororities from The Black Greek Association participated in an advanced hand-jive competition, combining rhythmic stomping, hand slapping, and dancing with vocal chants, shrieks, and rhyme.

“Step dance is the trademark of our African ancestry... a symbolic representation of the motherland, Africa,” M.C. Tracy Williams explained. With that in mind, I sank back in my seat, grooving to the low tones of lush bass, as the six symbols of Greekdom accepted the jamming challenge.

Sigma Gamma Rho Sorority, Incorporated, was the first to hit the stage, clad in blue lettered jerseys trimmed in gold. These five ladies of hip-hop broke the ice with the steady beat of their feet and the proud inflection of their cries: “SGR is in the house and there ain’t no doubt--so eeeeeeeeeeww and let it all hang out!”

The second group to contest were the boys of Phi Beta Sigma, led by a white-hooded “Rastaman,” or so said his shirt. After a brief dancing interlude, they chanted to the beat of an inner drum, hand clappin’ and thigh slappin’.

Zeta Phi Beta followed, the sister sorority to the Phi Beta brothers. In royal blue and white, they rapped: “This beat is tricky. This beat is tricky. It’s in our hands, it’s in our feet. Now can you catch this tricky beat?” For a first-time performance, these girls showed definite potential.

Next up were the gals of Delta Sigma Theta, steppin’ with attitude in bright red tees. With low-swinging hips and high-pitched squeals, the sexy six left the audience spellbound: “We slam, we jam, we mystify...” It is no wonder the Delta Sigmas won the Audience Choice Award; the skill of their dancing and singing was a “step” well above the rest.

The Kappa Alpha brothers, otherwise known as the “Seducin’ Twosome,” had all the ladies on the edge of their seats. Even my jive little sister, Tia (age six), murmured, “Ummm, Um!” Some of us have difficulty simultaneously patting our heads and rubbing our stomachs, but not these two rhythm masters. Known for kicking the beat with canes, the Kappa Alpha Psi boys, nicknamed “Romeo” and “Cappuccino,” captivated the audience with their smooth moves, their low-brimmed caps, and their intricate stepping routine.

The last group to compete were the pink ladies of Alpha Kappa Alpha. These dames posed with attitude. While two girls struck a sultry position, the other three squealed in tones similar to those of deflating helium balloons. When the jiving began they cried, “So pretty on my left. So pretty on my right. Oh, oh, so pretty—I just can’t sleep at night!”

Each Greek association displayed a zesty school spirit both rewarding and encouraging to behold. Somehow I can’t picture the ladies of Connor or Rusk “steppin' and jammin’,” or the boys of Kappa Sig and PiKA twirling their canes! But more importantly, the sense of unity and harmony within the Winthrop group as a whole was one to model and uphold. Despite the competitive boundaries of the performance, the dancers maintained a supportive, low-pressure atmosphere, cheering each other on in the true spirit of brother and sisterhood.

Brokdan Clarke
Step to the right, jam to the left, slap up, clap down--havin’ fun on a Friday night.

Jimmy Thackery and the Drivers show off their style
By JAMES BERRY
Staff writer

Style. It’s the only word that comes to mind watching Jimmy Thackery and the Drivers. First off, the three blues men that came to the 900 Room for 21-year-old night this Monday looked asif their apparel had been picked out of an early '80s closet. The bassist sported tight black jeans, boots, a vest, and a pair of shades that never left his face, while the drummer wore a bright red tee that revealed a lot of chest hair and a pale green shirt to complement it. As first impressions go, the Drivers weren’t masters. Draped over his less embarrassing ensemble (it’s hard to go wrong with a T-shirt), Jimmy wore a beat-up Fender Strat stripped of all but the last patches of sunburst finish. And although you could say he held down the lead vocals, that didn’t necessarily mean that anything came from his mouth. More often than not the guitar was his voice, and it screamed plenty. Most of the songs were subject to structure only in the musicians’ heads. Only a few had lyrics, and when the words came around, they were delivered with as much attitude as the riffs. The pair that backed him on drums and bass were obviously seasoned musicians, but they were easily overshadowed by the guitar and the man who played it.

Blues group entertains at 21-year-old night

Equipped with a wireless unit for his guitar, Jimmy strode from the stage during one of his extended solos in order to entertain the crowd on a more personal level — or so the audience thought. In fact, he just wanted a drink and made straight for the bar. Without so much as a flinch, he took the beer offered him and sipped it with his right hand, while his left continued the solo on its own. Refreshed, Jimmy then explored the balcony. On his way back to the stage he found time to play a little slide guitar using someone’s empty beer bottle. A couple of times, Jimmy tired of his pick and lifted the guitar to his face, playing the notes flawlessly with his teeth. The band’s sound was just as exciting as their playing. The Drivers stuck to a fairly classic blues approach, which worked well as backup for Jimmy. His guitar was accented with several effects, including two different distortions, a delay, a pitch.

See Thackery on page 11

Soprano Mary Cook delights her home audience in Hodson Hall

By Liz Lockett
Staff Writer

Soprano Mary Cook and pianist William Gorge gave a concert in Hodson Hall Sunday night primarily composed of virtuosic vocal pieces. Their repertoire consisted of a variety of pieces by composers such as Franz Schubert and Mary Howe, dating from 1797 to 1967. Flutist Jane Roger also accompanied them on a few of the pieces, most notably the renowned Ave Maria by Cherubini. Cook, a former vocal teacher at Davidson College, exploited her talent to convey several moods characteristic of this vast array of music. Her vocal technique combined with an expressive manner to create a highly emotional performance, from light and comical to emotionally wrenching. In addition to Ave Maria, other highlights of the concert were Schubert’s Das Echo and Seymour Barab’s Songs of Perfect Propriety. Translations of the French, Latin, German, and English texts were available for the audience, allowing for optimum communication between the audience and performer. The subject matter of each piece was understood in spite of the language barrier and the diversity of the pieces. The arrangement of the program also aided in this respect. The first half of the performance consisted of classical vocal pieces, while the second half of the performance featured more modern selections. This loose chronological arrangement of the pieces provided for smooth transitions. Davidson typically invites instrumental ensembles for performances. However, Cook’s recital exposed students and the community to seldom-heard vocal music. With wonderful performances such as this, hopefully we can look forward to hearing more vocal works performed in the future.