THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1995 | 11

Its Magic
The Chinese Magic Review dazzles viewers
By JORDAN DEBREE
Staff Writer

For those of you who missed the Chinese Magic Review on October 3, I can only offer my sincere condolences.
You probably missed the greatest show ever to set foot on Davidson campus. This band of quasi-circus performers thrilled and
entertained the Davidson crowd for nearly two hours. Their act was a clever mixture of showmanship and disciplined skill, driving
the audience to near hysterical excitement. But, of course, you cannot comprehend the mood of astonishment which swept across the
room, if you were not actually there.

On behalf of all those who have been made believers, I am a witness to what happened in Love Auditorium
on Wednesday, October 3. One amazing act after another hit the stage in full force, leaving us asking, “How the
hell did they do that?” One performer pulled about 15,000 playing cards from thin air, shooting them 30 feet into
the air in broad symmetrical arcs. Another wielded a 300-pound battle ax, twisting it around his body, flinging it across
the room with the type of ease we would associate only with a pencil. There were human contortionists, wrapping themselves
into tiny pretzel shapes, balanced delicately on chairs stacked high to the sky. And do not let us forget the
20-foot unicycle which maneuvered its way between 10 wine bottles placed only 12 inches apart.

It did not stop there, though. Do we dare swallow several three-foot swords at once, as one particular performer did?
Can we explain how one magician made humans and stationary objects disappear with the twist of a hand or the
wave of a magic wand? Altogether, it was an amazing night. It is my hope that this is not the
last time the Chinese Magic Review visits Davidson College. They’re even more entertaining than the circus.

Courtesy of Chinese Magic Review
One of the performers in the Chinese Magic Review astounds Davidson viewers with her artistry during the group’s performance last
week.

By JOSH BUCHANAN
Operations Manager

Psychologist DeWitt Crosby of the Student Counseling Center began the panel discussion on depression by stating, “Some people never know
they have it.” This discussion was a culmination of the activities marking National Depression Awareness Week. The Student Counseling Center
sponsored the discussion, which set out to help define depression and have students as well as adults share experiences about
dealing with depressed family members, or in dealing with depression themselves.

Professor of psychology Dr. Cole Barton opened the panel in an unorthodox fashion: he played blues tunes to illustrate what
he had to say. “People who are depressed are generally more accurate perceivers of reality,” said Barton, and used the
music of Lightnin’ Hopkins, Robert Johnson, B.B. King, and Billie Holiday to make statements for him. He emphasized that depression
can simply be a pervasive low feeling rather than the extremes that many people think of when they hear “depression.”
He also stressed some general facts about the illness: it tends to run in families; there is a gradient over
which all levels of depression

You're Our Type!up to $200 a month by donating life-saving plasma and get paid $30 as a new donor. Visit
our friendly, modern center and find out more about the opportunity to earn cash while helping others. “people helping people”

1511 Central Avenue @ Pecan
Charlotte, NC 28205
(704) 333-0335

Valid ID with Social Security No. Required
M-Th 6am-9pm; Fri 6am-8pm; Sat 7:30am-6pm; Sun 7:30am-4:30pm

Occur, and while the numbers may be skewed because women are more apt to share their feelings, women seem to
“get depressed” more often than men. The four panelists had many things to say about depression, with two distinctly different
views. Two of the panelists were on the outside, dealing with the illness in family members, and the other two
experienced depression themselves.

The two panelists that talked about depression and family dealt with depression in their fathers. One of the panelists described
her father’s depression as a “downward spiral.” He had become depressed after she left for Davidson, making it easier for
her father to hide the condition from her. She expressed frustration with herself for not knowing, not just with the
illness itself. But she took extra care to emphasize that her father, through a mixture of therapy and medication, was
doing well; that there was a “light at the end of the tunnel.”

Another of the panelists who had experienced depression herself described a sentiment that is common among those who are depressed.
In trying to help, giving advice is probably not the best idea. Listening to someone who you think may be
depressed will likely be more helpful to someone feeling the effects of depression. One of the panelists said that advice
from a friend went unnoticed, because “I just listened to her. I really didn’t want a solution, I just wanted
someone to listen to me. All you can do is be supportive.”

So what were students to take away from the panel? One of the adult panelists put it best when she
said, “Know that you do not have to go through those feelings without recognizing that there are easier ways.” This
same panelist suggested that the step for overcoming depression for her included a combination of medication, therapy, prayer, and conversation.
In fact, for all the panelists and in all the literature distributed by the school, conversation seems to be key
in the healing process. The people affected by the depression heal by talking about it; those who would help the
healing process need to be good listeners — and willing to intervene on behalf of the person they are trying
to help.

Depression, as one pamphlet suggested, “is an illness, not a weakness.” Not being ashamed to tell someone is the first
step to helping yourself move on. Thursday also gave students the opportunity to pick up literature about depression, as well
as evaluate themselves for the illness. The self-examination offered questions on the typical warning signs of depression, questions involving level
of general energy, outlook, and life outlook. The panel discussion was attended by experts to help interpret the results of
the test. The panel was concluded by a showing of Ordinary People, a film about depression directed by Robert Redford.

Saturday Night Live...
Anthenaeum
Saturday, October 21 — 9:30 p.m. — 900 Room
Brought to you by the College Union's Intimate Performances Committee
