6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Week in Washington

Clinton, Congress battle budget

By ANDREA SHORT
Washington Week correspondent

On Monday, President Clinton revealed the first version of his 1996 budget plan to Congress. Although the budget includes many substantial reductions, the plan will increase the deficit by $196.7 billion, $4.2 billion more than the estimated 1995 increase. The numbers may not show any reductions in government spending, but Clinton does propose significant changes in the federal government’s structure. The budget plan includes this statement about the government's structure: “Many programs, perhaps even whole agencies, have outlived their usefulness.” Clinton calls for ending 130 government entities, including the Interstate Commerce Commission and 37 different education programs. He also plans to cut bureaucratic and administrative costs by combining many individualized grants and programs. Unifying federal transportation and infrastructure improvement grants and cutting the House and Urban Development Agency’s 60 programs to eight will substantially reduce overhead costs. Executive agencies will also feel the cutbacks if Clinton’s proposals pass; the Office of Personnel Management will reduce its staff by one-third, and the General Services Administration will employ only half of its current 16,800-person staff.

Clinton supports cuts in many areas, but he continues to increase spending in others. He intends to increase the number of people in his community service program, Americorps, by 27,000 next year and proposes a 2.4 percent raise for all federal employees, civilian and military. The $500 per child tax credit and tax-deductible education costs will decrease federal revenue, but measures aimed at reducing the middle class’s tax burdens enjoy broad bipartisan support.

Congress has already made it clear that Clinton’s cuts, while welcome gestures, need to be much more severe if the government wants to bring the deficit under control. John Kasich of Ohio, House Budget Committee Chairman, said that Clinton’s “budget lacks courage.” Even Democrats suggested that Clinton should have cut deeper into the quagmire of government bureaucracy. With the Republicans trying to push the balanced budget amendment through the Senate (the measure passed the House last week), the pressure is on to make substantial cuts this year. The balanced budget amendment, however, is losing some supporters as the issue moves from broad claims to specific cuts. To reach the Republican goal of a balanced budget by 2002, approximately $500 billion will have to be cut from government spending. Economists and strategists foresee trouble trying to make these cuts without endangering Social Security and Medicare/Medicaid, the sacred cows of politics. Currently, these two programs comprise 39 percent of the federal budget. The Republicans have yet to announce their budget strategy, but they have said that it proposes $200 billion in both spending and tax cuts. Most Washington experts concede that this budget plan only represents a starting point for the Republicans and Democrats to begin their debate. Clinton will release a more specific plan this spring when Vice President Al Gore announces his second report on reinventing government.

Sources include: The February 3, 6, and 7 issues of The New York Times.

Dean Rusk

U.S. and China in trade face-off

By GRAHAM ERNST
Dean Rusk adjunct reporter

On Saturday, February 4, the United States announced it will impose a 100 percent tariff on over $1.08 billion worth of Chinese goods as of February 26. These trade sanctions come in response to the continued piracy of U.S. copyrights and patents by Chinese factories. China responded by declaring that it will match the move, imposing a 100 percent tariff on many imported U.S. goods. With the “reform-minded” Deng Xiaoping near death, U.S. officials must prepare to negotiate with Deng’s likely successor, Communist Party Chief Jiang Zemin. Zemin is generally perceived as a much weaker politician than Deng, leaving him vulnerable to nationalist and conservative influences in his government.

U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Cantor defended the bold move by the Clinton administration stating that the sanctions will only be implemented on the condition that the Chinese government continues to fail to crack down on companies that produce counterfeit U.S. goods. The U.S. is most concerned about 29 Chinese factories that produce 70 million compact and video laser disks annually. Cantor said that the U.S. was willing to drop the sanctions if factories would legally license their products and pay royalties to the American companies who own the patents. This week’s exchange of trade sanctions has forced several U.S. companies to look elsewhere for future investment in fear of an imminent trade war. Companies with current investments stand on shaky ground as European and other Asian investors will likely...Receive preferential treatment from the Chinese government. While these trade sanctions are a solid move in defending American economic interests in China, the Clinton administration may be gambling its alliance with China in dealing with North Korea. This past summer, U.S. negotiators had to ask for China’s support in the U.N. Security Council after threatening to revoke China’s “Most Favored Nation” trade status for continued abuses of human rights. In addition, two recent events have jeopardized the U.S. nuclear accord with North Korea. First, the new Republican Congress, most notably the new Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Sen. Jesse Helms (R-NC), have expressed reservations about paying North Korea not to develop a nuclear weapons program. Second, North Korea and South Korea currently are struggling to meet the April 29 deadline for reaching an agreement on the construction of two light water nuclear reactors. With the tremendous economic opportunities that the Chinese markets offer and the need to have China’s support against North Korea, the Clinton administration would be wise to wage a trade war only as a worst-case scenario. Sources include the 2-9-95 issue of the Wall Street Journal; and 2-5-95 through 2-9-95 issues of the New York Times.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1995

NOTES

Instead, they’re sort of reddish-brown. Or burnt sienna. Think of Valentine’s Day Distortions. Valentine’s Day means we see hearts everywhere. But notice that very few are anatomically correct. This serious misrepresentation of the size, shape, color, and complexity of this human body organ has led to all kinds of distortions. Hearts are not, for the most part, heart-shaped. They are blob-shaped, or fist-shaped, more indistinct and squishier than the carefully symmetrical pink paper hearts we see on mushy cards and candy boxes this time of year. Beyond that, they are not uniformly smooth. They are, after all, muscles, and they flex, which is to say beat or pump, 40 to 60 times a minute, on average. Beyond that, hearts are not uniformly pink or red, despite that misleading depiction in almost every drawing we see of them. They are, instead, the color of partly dried blood. My contention is that the sooner we get over our romantic notions of smooth, pink, symmetrical paper hearts, the wiser and more realistic we can be about the romantic relationships these phony hearts are meant to represent. Despite what we think when smoke gets in our eyes, as the old song put it, the people we fall in love with, and even — if you can imagine it — we ourselves, are not smooth, bright red and symmetrical, metaphorically speaking. We are, instead, lumpy, semi-stained, and slightly off-center, the whole lot of us.

-Reprinted from the February 12, 1995 Charlotte Observer

Pop-Tart Trial

Humor columnist Dave Barry says anyone who asks him to testify at a trial does so at his own risk. Putting a humorist and “known liar” on the stand would probably be a breach of legal ethics, the nationally syndicated writer said Friday. Anyone who does so “should get the electric chair, at the minimum,” he added. Attorney Sam Petroff is considering asking Barry for help in a case in which Pop-Tarts are alleged to have started a kitchen fire. “I suppose we could attempt to qualify him as an expert,” Petroff said. Barry wrote in a June 1993 column that he ignited the snack pastry in a toaster as an experiment after reading that Pop-Tarts caused a house fire. The column generated about 20 letters or newspaper articles describing similar experiences. Petroff’s client, Thomas Nangle, is being sued for allegedly causing $3,000 in damage to a home after his Pop-Tarts ignited a fire. Nangle claims Kellogg Co., which makes Pop-Tarts, should pay the damages.

-Reprinted from the February 5, 1995 Greenville Times

Project Life Bone Marrow Drive

Benefit to be held at The Milestone in Charlotte on Saturday, February 18 from 9 pm until. Four alternative bands will play:
- Dirt Merchants (from Boston)
- Furious Nipples (from NYC)
- Jeff Carrol and the Desmonds (from Raleigh)
- East Orange (from Atlanta)

Contact Bill Flowers at The Milestone for more information.

CORRECTION

Last week’s Davidsonian, in the article “Student Union Plans for Move to Johnston Gym,” reported that “The Facilities Planning Committee, consisting of the four vice presidents of the college and the president's assistant, approved the new Union in the fall.” In fact, according to Dean of Students Tom Shandley, the committee merely approved a “feasibility study to see if Johnston Gym would work as a new Union.”

HELP WANTED!!

Men/Women earn up to $480 weekly assembling circuit boards/electronic components at home. Experience unnecessary, will train. Immediate openings in your local area. Call 1-602-680-4647. Ext.102c