SPORTS MAY 9, 1995

Benchwarmers: Memoirs of the second best

They go out to their playing fields six days a week. They sweat it out and work hard. They are part of a select group of students who are recognized as varsity athletes. They also sit the bench. While some individuals on a varsity team stand out as terrific athletes and skilled players, the few people who play little or none during the games receive much less recognition. Does this bother the ones who ‘bench it?’

Parker Reich, a varsity lacrosse player, responds, “No, not really. I’m playing lacrosse because it keeps me in shape. I thought it would be fun. Last year on J.V., I improved a lot. I thought I’d continue to improve, but it didn’t work out,” he laughs, “I haven’t improved at all.”

Does he resent his coach for his lack of playing time? Parker looks surprised. “Why the hell—oh sorry, why should I play? If the game was tied or anywhere near close and he [the coach] told me to go in, I'd be like, ‘What, are you kidding me?’ I'd screw up, let my team down. I’m not good enough.”

Does he wish he’d quit? “Well, it gets hard sometimes. The fact that I’ve been on campus four weekends in a row bothers me a little. But I have no bad feelings about playing. What else would I be doing? I'd get fat; I’d be bored.”

When asked if he sees himself as a positive influence on his team, Parker responds good-naturedly, “Yeah, I do. I really do. I’m there every day, doing my best. I’m a lot less serious than most of the other guys. And that’s not just sports, that’s everything. I care about the game a lot, but I’m not overly intense about it. I like lacrosse; practice is where I get to play.”

A girl’s varsity lacrosse player, Ilona Petery, has a different opinion. “I feel like as the six of us sit there on the bench, the coaches forget we’re there. They keep the starters in for literally the whole game and barely play us. I think it’s a complete waste because our skills are not so inferior to theirs that we couldn’t enjoy some playing time. It’s a waste of time and energy for us to practice all week and not play in games. Especially when the times we did go in, the team benefited in some way. Whenever the benchers went in, something good happened; there were never any disasters. It’s not like anyone ever died. Come on, what’s a few points for the other team here and there?”

Even so, Ilona wants to continue her lacrosse career. “I love the sport. I guess in all varsity sports there are those who start and those who don’t because not everyone has the same abilities. It was an accomplishment to make varsity because the team is so good. Our record was 15-0. But the coaches should make it more of an equal arrangement. I should feel like a significant part of the team, not just a substitute for someone with stronger skills than me.”

Tucker Braddock, a senior varsity baseball player, quit three weeks into the season. “I quit because I was the seventh-string pitcher. There are a lot of other things I’d rather be doing with my time, especially if I’m not going to play at all.”

Does he miss it? “Well, it’s nice to have my weekends free, but I miss just hanging out in the locker room or getting psyched for a game. I miss being part of the family because that’s what it was like, a family.”

Bob Andrian, a well-respected faculty member and coach of two varsity sports, does not feel bad for not playing all of the players equally. “No, I think I try to feel...for them. I empathize with them as much as possible. I think if you’re being unfair as a coach, and denying a guy even the opportunity, then there will be some resentment. It gets hard as a coach when the players are close in ability, when it’s hard to see who’s got that edge. In a case where everyone is on the same level, then I think everyone should be able to play.” Does he think that the ones who don’t play develop negative attitudes? “No. I think the biggest problem is when he or she loses his or her confidence, or thinks he’s lost the coach’s confidence. You have to watch those people very carefully, because you don’t want them to lose enthusiasm. There are those who feel as if they’re coming along and have the ability, and might have a resentment that they don’t voice, but comes out on the field. The important thing is letting the ones on the bench know that they are an integral part of the team. The best way to have it is when the starters let the other guys know that they are important through words of encouragement in practice or in games.”

Another varsity bench warmer when asked if frustrated responded, “Sure it gets frustrating. I go out there, work my butt off, and see very little results. But we have fun with it sometimes. We were going to make shorts for the six of us that said Girls Varsity Lacrosse on the front and then in big block letters on the butt: PLACE BENCH HERE. We never got around to it, though.” Did she have any advice for other struggling athletes contemplating on whether or not to continue a sport? “Well, it depends on the person, and their coach. If a coach makes you feel invisible, and the player is clearly having a horrible time with the season, I’d say bag it. But if the coach tries to be fair, lets you know what is going on, and the bencher is happy with what he or she can get, I’d say stick with it and just try to have fun. I mean, it’s just a sport, you know.”

Memo found: B.J. wants courts named for him

The memo was found in the tree swing of Sig Ep. It reads: "I thought everyone would want the courts named for me. The money could still go for the Reading Buddies. I just want to make my mark at Davidson. I dream about the B.J. Rudell Basketball courts." The memo was dated this year and signed by Rudell, the senior senator who led the outdoor basketball movement. A.D. Terry Holland is just glad to know who has been sending him all of the letters and petitions. "Now I know who's behind all of this." Ortega, the winner of the drawing, says, "If he wanted it that bad, he could have told me!" Friends of B.J.'s say his modesty stems from his political aspirations. They are surprised he even wrote the memo.

Poems by B.J.

Here I sit at my window
watching some Pikas
come home from the court
BJ for President
been two years now
Stick with BJ
Stick with BJ
Rosen-my-ass!
gotta get even
Need my bb gun
I got a bb gun
Here I sit
feeling much better
stinging some booties
stinging some booties

Jet continued from page 2

third time. I’m gonna blast those little Hondas right off the face of the earth. I’d like to see the students appeal a ticket like that!” The F-14 will of course make an appearance at court parties every now and then. (Unless, of course, Dave Harding takes it for the weekend, because—as he says—it is the ultimate babe magnet). The new fighter jet was financed through the rise in parking ticket rates. Yes, Davidson will definitely be a safer place next year both on the ground and in the sky.

Mills continued from page 1

exploding out of his ass. Just kidding. The police uncovered a crime ring that had been defrauding 300-pounders with tiny girlfriends all over the country. “Yeah, I’m disappointed,” said Mills, after a couple of drinks. “Hey, just for old time’s sake, do you mind beating the shit out of me?”