THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS. MONDAY, MARCH 20, 1995

COMA, Committee on Minority Affairs, met with the freshmen to discuss racial issues and topics of diversity on campus and beyond.
Anne Tilghman McEaddy

COMA meets with freshman halls
Jenkins raises racial consciousness
By Amy WHITMIRE
Staff Writer

This week, the Committee on Minority Affairs (COMA) began meeting with freshman halls to discuss issues involving diversity and acceptance at Davidson. Far from being a speech about the value of accepting differences in others, the meetings tried to promote open discussion about the students’ own experiences at Davidson. Students shared with each other their experiences, opinions, and concerns about issues that included diversity at Davidson as compared with diversity in their high schools, religious diversity, political correctness, gender and race relations at Davidson, and Davidson’s affiliation with the Presbyterian Church.

Students seemed to react positively to the meetings. Freshman Amy Kanoff, Fourth Cannon, says, “I think the meetings are good because we all come together with different opinions and different backgrounds and learn from each other as a hall in a way other than on a social level.”

Latasha Jenkins, Chairperson of COMA, feels that the meetings are an important tradition at Davidson. After freshmen participated in a book discussion involving diversity at orientation, COMA wanted to see what students’ experiences had been in their first semester and a half. COMA uses the students’ responses to encourage positive changes at Davidson. After the hall discussions two years ago, for example, COMA worked with the Admissions Office to create an essay question on the applications which asked applicants to describe an experience from which they had learned. Jenkins feels that this question positively affected the class of 1998, the first class to answer the question. After meeting with approximately half of the freshman halls, Jenkins said, “I think there is a unique diversity in this class.”

Jenkins believes that the meetings are an important step toward increased understanding among Davidson students. She says, “I would like to see general openness for all types of people, especially a voice that Davidson might not want to hear. There needs to be an expanded definition of diversity so that people can see how they are different but can still pull together as a whole.”

Minor decision may make a major difference
By ANNIE CARR
Staff Writer

Next year’s seniors may be the first to graduate with academic minors as a means of recognizing extensive study in an area outside of a student’s major. In an SGA meeting February 14, Senior Senator Gautam Srinivasan brought up the subject for deliberation. According to Srinivasan, the requirements for a minor would resemble, in abbreviated form, those of a major in the same subject. Specifics would differ with each academic department, with an average requirement of about six courses per minor. A set of guidelines were drawn up by the Council for Academic Affairs (a subcommittee of the SGA) and submitted for faculty consideration before Spring Break. The faculty’s Educational Policy Committee (EPC) is expected to evaluate the plan by March 28, at which point the Faculty Senate may be asked to reach a final decision.

Students may remember that this possibility was discussed in the past but turned down by the EPC. According to Srinivasan, this was mainly because the faculty did not believe that the student body wanted minors. Davidson already has something similar to minors in concentrations, but “concentrations are generally interdepartmental, like Ethnic Studies or Women’s Studies,” says Srinivasan. “A minor, on the other hand, would be within one department.”

Freshman class President Buster Burkadds that minors are more official and would allow Davidson to compete with other schools. But “concentrations are something unique about Davidson,” he says. “Anyone who wants to do a minor should be allowed to, but it shouldn’t be encouraged.” Burk echoes some students’ concerns that the liberal arts philosophy of the school might be damaged by students taking courses simply to fulfill a requirement.

Others feel just the opposite: that a minor would encourage students to branch out into areas other than their major, thus fulfilling the goal of a liberal arts education.

INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT
Make up to $25-$45 per hour teaching basic conversational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S. Korea. Many employers provide room & board + other benefits. No teaching background or Asian languages required. For more information call: (206) 632-1146 Ext. J53631 International Employment Group

CRUISE JOBS
Students Needed! Earn up to $2,000+ per month working for Cruise Ships or Land-Tour companies. World Travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Seasonal and Full-Time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call: Cruise Employment Services (206) 634-0468 ext. C53632

Phi Beta Kappa inductees announced
By Beth Lindsey
Staff Writer

Phi Beta Kappa, a national honorary organization, has announced its inductees for the spring of 1995. The candidates are selected chiefly on academic excellence as reflected in the grade point averages of the students, but their moral character is also considered. A student’s GPA must be at least a 3.6 in at least 18 countable classes. All classes are countable except education, speech, applied music, applied art, studio art, accounting, and military science.

The committee of Davidson professors and administrators, Dean of Faculty Robert Williams, Registrar Polly Griffin, President of PBK Dr. Cynthia Lewis, Vice President of PBK Dr. Mary Thornberry, and Secretary of PBK Dr. Earl Edmondson undertook the difficult task of determining those students who qualify for the organization in the spring semester of this year. Students are selected from the senior class based on their academic performance through the fall semester of their senior year and are thus inducted in the spring of their senior year. Lewis says, “Inevitably, however, there are those who fulfill the criterion in terms of grade point average during the spring semester of their senior year and who are then inducted the day before graduation.”

The chapter at Davidson, like the chapters at most other liberal arts schools, has a quota for the number of members inducted. Says Lewis, “Davidson usually takes between 30 and 40 students; however, there are only 29 members from the class of 1995 thus far.” The initiation ceremony for the new inductees is scheduled to take place on Monday, April 10, 1995.

Phi Beta Kappa
George Andrew Antonelli
Kristin Carraway McColgan
Julia Corine Barnes
Mary Shannon McCrory
Georgina Suzanne Burrows
Elizabeth Bethea McRee
Phoebe Dean
Carolyn Ann Meadows
Kelly Michelle Dixson
Dhruv Mubayi
Mira Ann Eklund
Kelly Jeanne Murray
Susan Lynn Fischer
Danny Allen Newman, Jr.
Arthur Lee Gaston III
Timothy Norwood Ogden
Nancy Wollcott Hilles
Lara Michelle Onkey
Philip James Honerkamp, Jr.
John Crudup Rogers III
Hayden Odell Kepley II
Joseph David Rogers
Anna Rutherford Kirkland
Annie Laurie Self
Lorie Katherine Logan
Sinda Kalin Speer
Lisa Anandi Lyons
Valerie Ross Whitlock
Qingfei Zhang

Where can you get a haircut, a manicure and pedicure, and a tan all in the same visit?
New Age
A full service salon for men and women
Let New Age help you look your best for the spring season. Davidson Students still receive $1.00 off services with a student I.D.
SouthLake Shopping Center
Next to Harris Teeter
Cornelius
892-3067