2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS TUESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1995

Noel for Neighbors

Residents in the McConnell neighborhood, many of whom are Davidson professors, will be giving off light this Christmas while they give contributions to the community. The project, called Noel for Neighbors, was organized last year by Sarah Jenest, a McConnell resident. She hopes that in lieu of exchanging cookies or gifts, residents will make a monetary contribution to benefit two local organizations. After they add to the collection, house owners receive luminaries which they will light with the rest of the neighborhood next Saturday night. Last year, residents sang Christmas carols after they illuminated the neighborhood. As Donna Molinek, a Davidson professor and McConnell resident explains, this year the event will be somewhat “more formal” because the caroling will begin on the village green instead of at the neighborhood, a mile and a half down Concord Road. Jenest says they might even have a bonfire this year. This year, the money raised will be split between the Habitat House and the Davidson-Cornelius Daycare Center. Jenest hopes that since McConnell neighborhood has grown significantly since last year, the money collected will greatly exceed the $615 the neighbors donated last year.

Alternative Gift Fair

Booths were set up in the TV lounge where fraternity, eating house, and Christian Fellowship Committee members explained the gifts on the Shopping List for the World, given to students, professors, faculty, and Davidson townspeople who attended the fair. The project was organized by the student-run Chapel Committee. People could purchase gifts of reforestation in Brazil, improved sanitation in Burundi, medical assistance in the United States and Cameroon, shelter for street kids in Brazil, and many other gifts to support people around the world. Rob Spach, Davidson College Chaplain, believes that the project represents “working for justice for people ... and empowering people in the United States and abroad who are struggling in their own situation to make a difference in their lives.” A contribution, Spach says, becomes more meaningful because people are not blindly donating to a cause. Anne Marie McDonald, a Davidson resident, agrees with Spach’s sentiments stating that last year she bought a gift at the Alternative Gift Fair which she gave to her sister who was “really happy to receive it. I try to pick out something that’s meaningful to the recipient,” McDonald stated. This is the third year Davidson has hosted the fair. In 1992, the event raised $6500 at Davidson. The next year, Davidson organized a similar fair at the Methodist Church in connection with the one at the college. Together, they raised over $10,000. This year, the event extended not only to the Methodist Church, but also to The Pines at Davidson. According to Spach, Alternative Gift Fairs across the country raised over $500,000 last year. Alternative Gift Markets, Incorporated is the non-profit corporation which started the program in this country nine years ago. According to the organization’s annual report, last year, over 237 Alternative Gift Fairs were held in 40 states.

Operation Christmas Child

The Christmas spirit at Patterson Court eating houses and fraternities reaches beyond their outside lights and decorations. Beginning in late November, Patterson Court members packed boxes with toiletries, toys, and games to send to children in Bosnia and Croatia. One program organizer valued the project because it is “a nice tangible way to do something for less-fortunate people.” This same participant estimated that over 65 boxes were assembled by eating house and fraternity members, with BSC creating the most boxes. In addition, Patterson Court houses had to also pay a $5 shipping charge for each box they donated. Last week, the boxes were delivered to a collection place near Harrisburg, outside of Charlotte. The site was one of two collection areas in the nation, and the only one on the East Coast. Program directors there reported that 100,000 boxes had already been delivered, and they were expecting to receive 200,000 more. The organization representing the effort nationally, “The Samaritan’s Purse” was founded by Franklin Graham, son of evangelist Billy Graham. He titled this particular project “Operation Christmas Child.”

Dismantle from page 1

They also expressed anger over the fact that RLO told them of their decision through a letter on Friday, leaving the First Akers Residents to worry over the weekend. Patrick Johnson, one of the eight men on the hall, expressed that the move would be “more than a displacement — I’ve made new friends; I like living down the hill and having a parking space ... it took a semester toget where I am now. I don’t want to start over.” Resident Advisor Liz Sale seemed equally as angry. She further emphasized that the guys would be moving to a “different community, different spectrum of people” and that this is “more than an issue of living space.” Holmes explains that the reasoning behind the decision had “nothing to do with co-ed and nothing to do with sophomores” but was a matter of the number of students leaving versus the number remaining. He explains that RLO decided to deliver on Friday so that residents would have enough time to plan their schedules to be able to meet on Monday night. He also planned to provide the displaced Akers residents with top lottery numbers for the next year and help moving. He offered Housekeeping and Physical Plant trucks to help. Holmes said that specific compensation would be determined later but suggested a possible $100 credit to each student’s account in the Controller’s Office. At the meeting, Holmes told the hall, “I know that this isn’t what you’d choose, but I don’t have any options right now.” “I wish I had another option,” apologized Holmes.

Holmes still hasn’t found a clear alternative but eventually decided that while moving the students seemed a logical decision for RLO to make, it would be unfair to displace them. “There’s not much that’s yours at college, and [we were] tampering with one of the base needs students feel on campus,” Holmes stated after the decision was made not to move the residents. In the Spring, RLO predicts they may not have enough rooms for six to eight women, but Holmes states, “We’re willing to gamble with those short numbers.” RLO has already tried to create more space on campus by granting six students off-campus housing privileges that were previously denied. RLO may also put a few students in lounges, moving them out as space allows. Another option includes leasing a house on Main Street or Concord Road to fit the overflow of female students.

Holmes states that it “wasn’t easy” to deal with the situation on First Akers, and he knew “how traumatic it was” for the students there. Yet he also feels the situation will be useful in helping to establish a policy that either prioritizes students staying on campus or students coming back. The Red Book states, though in Holmes’s opinion not very explicitly, that a student may be forced to leave his or her room to accommodate a student returning from abroad. At the same time, another school policy states that students going abroad may not get a room when they return. The ambiguity of these two policies has never been a problem before this year. RLO has had to move students “several times in the past few years,” said Holmes, but never in this magnitude. He added that it was “no huge policy,” but RLO had a mandate from the President to maximize bed space usage. This year, RLO temporarily changed its traditional policy to please the First Akers sophomores, instead of providing for students coming back to campus in the Spring.

Next year Holmes plans to form an empowered committee to decide what the permanent policy should be on mid-year housing changes. He plans to invite First Akers residents to join the committee, as well as people who have come back from being abroad. Holmes also hopes that this situation will encourage students to tell RLO earlier that they are planning on going abroad. Holmes complains that even though students know that the deadline to inform the Registrar of their plans to go abroad in the Spring is December 1, many students don’t know if they have been accepted to their programs until later in the month. Holmes also describes that students wait until the last minute to tell RLO of their plans to go abroad so that their roommates may have a better chance of keeping a single room. “What you decide to do will have big ramifications on other students; this is an advertisement of that,” Holmes says. Trevor Hackman, a First Akers resident, personally recognizes the importance of informing RLO if one is planning on going abroad: “If they [abroad students] wait to the last minute, we shouldn’t be displaced just in case they decide to come back.”

The Office Support Staff will provide cookies and juice for an exam break in the Chambers lobby during all exam periods.