THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 3, 1995

PRETTY NEW LAMPS
Not the Champs-Elysées, but a nice walk nonetheless.
Rob Kosicki

Manning chosen as 1995 distinguished Humanities prof
By Patricia Evans
Staff writer

Professor Bob Manning has already plunged into his new role as the college’s first E. Craig Wall Jr. Distinguished Professor
of Humanities. Manning plans to emphasize cosmology, which he defines as “any civilization’s attempt to understand its purpose by understanding
nature.”

As a part of his new position, Manning will give lectures to first and second-year humanities students in the 1995-1996
school year concerning groups throughout Western Tradition that have exercised cosmology in their cultures. Manning will leave his current department,
physics, for two years in order to devote himself totally to the field of humanities and his studies in cosmology.

The newly endowed distinguished professorship was created through the generosity of family, friends, and admirers of E. Craig Wall, Jr.
‘59, current Chairman of the Board of Trustees. Currently, Manning is in the second year of his five-year appointment as
Director of the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies. He will keep his post in the CIS throughout his new distinguished professorship
and continue a 23-year tradition of leadership and teaching in Humanities.

Manning says, “I will miss [physics],” but he is excited about the opportunities that the Humanities Professorship entails.

Application for trustee committees are due Wednesday, April 5. They are available in the Dean of Students Office.

Davidson thrives off Duke Endowment
By Randy Hartwell
Staff writer

Davidson’s annual award from the James B. Duke Endowment was recently made public. This year’s gift totals $725,000 and will
be used to help fund scholarships and campus renovation. A clause in the late tobacco baron’s will stipulates the creation
of a foundation to aid four colleges and universities in the Carolinas: Davidson College, Duke University, Furman University, and Johnson
C. Smith University. Each institution has received money from that fund for the past 30 years.

The $725,000 received this year will support the James B. Duke Merit Scholars program, need-based scholarships, and new computer equipment.
It will also help pay for remaining balances due on the Visual Arts Center, the renovation of Phi and Eu
Halls, and help fund the Love of Learning program. After Davidson representatives make requests to the Duke Endowment’s Board of
Directors for various programs in need of funding, “every year around Christmastime, we get a special allocation, usually around $700,000,”
says Director of Development Kevin McCarthy.

The money Davidson gets fluctuates depending on the stock market, but Davidson and Furman get about the same amount, Johnson
C. Smith gets a little less, while Duke gets about three times what we get, because of Mr. Duke’s will,”
he says. Once the will of James B. Duke’s daughter Doris Duke (at one time known as the “richest little
girl in the world”) is settled, Davidson may stand to get even more than the almost three-quarters of a million
dollars it usually receives from the foundation. But the amount the college gets now still makes a big impact. “Davidson
would be a lot different place if it couldn’t count on that money,” says McCarthy.

Cover from page 1
not pay the fee will be denied entrance.

Improving Risk Management
While coping with this fiscal challenge, the PCC is also trying to improve risk management and hopefully also reduce cost.
According to Holmes, the new risk management plan will involve three separate features. The first component is a police officer
who will be on duty while the kegs are flowing. This isUsually from 11 p.m. until 2 a.m. The second
part is a trained, college-age bartender. These bartenders will be trained to spot students who are dangerously drunk and to
cut them off. Bartenders will also be on duty from 11 p.m. until 2 a.m. The third aspect of risk
management will be the risk manager who will be on duty from 10 p.m. to 3 a.m. Holmes estimates that
when all three people are working, the risk management cost is $31.50 per hour.

Insurance
No matter how successful the new risk management program is, Court houses still have to come to code with their
insurance policies.

INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT
Make up to $25-$45 per hour teaching basic conversational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S. Korea. Many employers provide room
& board + other benefits. No teaching background or Asian languages required. For more information call: (206) 632-1146 Ext. J53631
International Employment Group

Europe- $169 o/w
Caribbean/Mexico- $189 r/t
*If you can beat these prices, start your own damn airline!
Air-Tech Ltd. 212-219-7000

As the February 20 issue of The Davidsonian reported, by having parties open to the entire student body, houses violate
the terms of their policies. Thus, while the special “Court membership” will help the PCC raise needed funds, it will
create “closed” parties. Only independents who pay the fee will be able to attend, and a limited list of attendees
is the technical definition of a closed party.

“The philosophy of Davidson in general is we want to keep parties open to everyone. But [the houses] are handed
down risk management guidelines we have to follow. We want to give the opportunity to as many people as possible,
for a fee, to attend Court parties,” says Shames. Holmes concurs: “From a risk management perspective, we cannot have open
parties and maintain risk management policies.”

Shames recognizes that closed parties are not the path anyone wants to take. “I’m sorry that’s the way it’ll have
to be,” he says. Both Holmes and Shames stated that none of the money from independents will be used to
purchase alcohol. Holmes says, “The money will go directly into an off-campus account or a PCC account through the school.”
Since individual houses purchase alcohol, all funds will go to risk management.

Shames and Holmes both expect opposition to this proposal. Holmes says criticism will come “from a lot of quarters.” Holmes
expects the faculty, independents, and even Court members themselves to raise objections to the plan. But both also feel that
everyone will warm up to the idea once the formal proposal is made and some dialogue occurs. Shames says, “People
first need to buy into the [proposed new] system. Once you buy into the argument, you can accept it.” Holmes
says, “People will see the numbers ... it is not people trying to take advantage of another.” Shames described the
proposal as “fair” and the “most reasonable” one available. And Holmes summed up the PCC’s predicament most concisely: “This is
proper risk management in a litigious age.”

A Tasty Choice
Blizzard® and Breeze® Sale. Each Just $1. Good thru April 15th. Now you can get a deal on a Blizzard®
Flavor Treat or Breeze® Frozen Yogurt Treat. Whichever you prefer, it’s a delicious decision. Just choose any of our famous
flavors like fruit, chocolate, cookies, or candy, and we'll blend it all together for you. The Blizzard® and Breeze® sale.
Only at Dairy Queen®. At participating Dairy Queen® stores. We Treat You Right. Dairy Queen® stores are proud sponsors of
the Children’s Miracle Network Telethon, for children. ©AM D.Q. Corp 1992 © Reg. U.S. Pat. Off. AM D.Q. Corp.
