THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1995 13

The Athenaeum — classic it’s not

New band deserves gold medal

By Mary Towes ALLISON Staff Writer

“The Athenaeum, what kind of name is that?” Instead of a band, it sounded like a weird Greek festival designed to worship the gods of Olympus. Intrigued, I was determined to uncover this mystery.

The concert began later than advertised but that’s not unusual; it gave me a chance to find out the meaning of the band’s name. Nic Brown, the band’s very talented drummer, said that the band copied its name from his father’s high school fraternity. “That’s high school, mind you,” he said with a grin. They must be asked that question a lot.

The Athenaeum consists of four members: Mark Kano, vocals, guitar; Alex McKinney, bass, keyboards, vocals; Nic Brown, drums; and Grey Brewster, guitar. The atmosphere was extremely quiet for a Saturday night, which allowed for a laid-back concert. There were probably about 15 people in attendance when the band started playing and that number grew to 25 or 30 after about an hour.

While listening to the music (words and music written by the band members themselves), I wondered why anyone would want to sit back at their rooms watching a bunch of greedy professional baseball players feed their fortunes (that event otherwise known as the World Series). In thanking everyone for coming out to hear them, Kano, the lead vocalist said, “... at the end of the concert I’ll be able to thank each and every one of you personally for coming to see us.” The Athenaeum was undoubtedly disappointed with the turnout but played brilliantly anyway.

The band started out with a song called “Haircut,” and then moved to songs that were equally as good: “On My Mind,” “Different Situation,” and “No One.” The Athenaeum reminded me of the Gin Blossoms, but they were better. Their sound was distinct but not boring, and all their songs did not run together because they sounded so different.

I was also impressed because the members of the group looked like they were really enjoying their performance. They didn’t have to scream into the microphone to depict their love of music — it was shown by their ability to totally get into the show with nary a care as to how many people were there and who was leaving to go down to the Court or to find out the score of the game.

Of those who did go to the concert, their reactions were very positive. When Kano announced that their CD was on sale for five dollars, several people I knew (including myself) searched the bottom of their pockets for change in order to buy it. A copious amount of good comments were made about this band from just down the road (Greensboro). The only negative comment heard was, “They’re great but I wish the backgrounds weren’t so loud so I could hear the lead singer’s voice better and understand the words.” Even this didn’t down the spirits of those who stayed to see the show.

The music was wonderful, the band friendly (although probably wondering what Davidson students actually do on the weekends), and the atmosphere relaxed. The show was definitely a bright spot in the weekend and entertainment. For you who missed the show, you missed out. The Athenaeum is on its way to a golden age.

Breakfast Club from page 10

If one has gone to a David Bowie concert some time ago and had asked a fan whether he thought Bowie would be performing with an industrial techno band like Nine Inch Nails, the response would be no. (Actually the response would probably be, “what’s industrial music, some kind of rap?”)So why the drastic swing back to the music of an era remembered for its yuppie conservatism, corporate fraud, general greed, and utter superficiality? Perhaps exactly because the music itself is completely superficial, overlooking the worn angst of Kurt, Trent, Alanis, and a thousand other spin-offs. Like Reagan, it forgets all the bad times. It makes things childishly happy — and simply fun. Write for The Davidsonian. Call John -2148.

SGA Town Meeting concerning Academic Affairs
Come discuss issues like minors, internships, course credit, pass/fail, drop/add, and the future of academics at Davidson.
Thursday, October 26th at 7 p.m. in the Conference Room (2nd floor of the Union) — All Are Welcome!

The Woman Behind the Veil: the Power of Dress in Turkey discussion is held 7 p.m.-9 p.m. in the Big Screen Room.

John Montague, editor of Book of Irish Verse, will read from his new book of Collected Poems 7 p.m.-9 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Jumpin’ Java Café brews from 8 p.m.-midnight at the Outpost.

Homosexuality and Religion
Revs. Spahr and Graves lead an informal discussion on “Uncommon Calling: Telling our stories of struggle and hope” 9 p.m.-11 p.m. at the Carolina Inn.

Tuesday
Coffeehouse supplies fresh coffee and doughnuts for a minimal cost 8:30 a.m.-11 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Round Table Forum on “Sexuality and Religion” hosted by Revs. Spahr and Graves 11:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Lunch is included for those who sign up at the Union desk.

Community Halloween Party with booths and a haunted house helps raise money for Project Life 2 p.m.-6 p.m. in ???.

Rev. Janie Spahr, ordained minister, lesbian, and founder of All that May Freely Serve, lectures on “Homosexuality and the Church—What Does Love Require” 7 p.m. in the 900 Room. Reception for the Revs. Spahr and Graves 8:30 p.m.-10 p.m. in the Union Lobby.

21-Year-Old Night brings friends together 10 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Wednesday
Frederick Douglass: When the Lion Wrote History (film) and discussion led by Dr. Ballard at 7:30 p.m. in Chambers 211.

Henry Hope Reed, an authority and activist on the tradition of American architecture, lectures on “The Classical Future of American Public Architecture” 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

Rear Window plays 9 p.m.-11:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Project Life Study Break relaxes 10 p.m.-11 p.m.

Thursday
SGA Day Cookout grills hot dogs and hamburgers and provides drinks for all students 11 a.m.-2 p.m. on the Union Patio.

CROP Lunch supports global hunger awareness 11 a.m.-2 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.

Potluck Diwali Dinner Celebration discusses the Indian holiday 7 p.m.-9 p.m. at the Union Outpost.

Town Meeting discusses academic minors at Davidson 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. at the Union Conference Room.

Dr. Waldo Martin, from Berkeley, author of The Mind of Frederick Douglass: An Intellectual Biography, will speak on “The Enduring Frederick Douglass” 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

Dr. Lanny Smith will speak on his work as a physician in El Salvador and about the current political situation there 7:30 p.m.-10 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Parents Weekend
Rear Window plays 7 p.m.-9 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Jazz Ensemble jams 9 p.m.-10:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Bonfire, Pep Rally, and Dance whoops it up 10 p.m.-midnight on Patterson Court — membership not required.

Davidson Dance Troupe performs dance and choreography by Davidson students. Music before and after by cellist; readings and dance 8 p.m.-9 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Jazz Ensemble jams again 9 p.m.-midnight in the 900 Room.

Ecdysis plays for Jumpin’ Java 9:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.

Student Violinist Rocke performs 8 p.m.-8:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.