2° THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS_ MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1995

Perry defeats Ferris in race for Union Pres.

Union President, Union Vice-President, Defense Advisors, and Student Solicitors elected

By Betsy Lindsey
Staff writer

Union President

Morgan Perry was elected as the new Union President for 1995-96 in last week’s elections. Perry, whose campaign promise was “Anything is possible,” is a junior history major from Atlanta. A member of the Union Board since her freshman year, Perry has worked as Member-at-Large and the Outpost and 900 Room Chair. Perry ran against Lylen Ferris, a junior cultural anthropology major from Vicksburg, Mississippi, who spent last semester on the Davidson Semester in India program.

Says Perry, “I am really excited about the results. I feel like Davidson is a place where we spend a lot of time talking. But sometimes I feel like there is a breakdown and that we don’t end up actually doing. I really want to start doing and talking about the things that pertain to student life.”

Union Vice President

Katie Schwab, a junior biology major with a concentration in medical humanities, is preparing to become the next Union Board Vice President. Active previously in both the Union and in her service commitments to Rusk and the Biosociety, Schwab plans to “write budgets and stick to them, negotiate deals, plan a campus-wide party, and enjoy herself under pressure in a hectic situation.” Schwab ran against sophomore Katherine Ross, who has also been involved in the Union.

Defense Advisor

The race for Defense Advisor included four candidate pairs from the junior class who wished to spend the next year assisting anyone brought before the Honor Council who desires their services. The initial contenders were Frances Bailey and Sara Lyn Goodman, Jeni Hankins and Kristina Nevius, Lexy DeVane and Marc LaFrance, and Katherine Hash and Samantha Hodges.

The run-offs last Tuesday narrowed to a choice between Katherine Hash and Samantha Hodges and Lexy DeVane and Marc LaFrance. The results of that election gave Lexy DeVane and Marc LaFrance the position of 1995-96 Defense Advisor. Says LaFrance, “We are both really happy to be able to work in this position. I think that Lexy and I complement each other’s talents and abilities in working with people to be able to really do a good job.”

Student Solicitor

Junior hall counselors Nick Troiano and J.D. Dupuy will be the 1995-96 Student Solicitors for the Honor Council. They will undertake the task of investigating any possible violations of the Honor Code and representing the college in a hearing. Says Dupuy, “We’re really excited about the results. Nick and I are ready to serve the people at Davidson in this capacity, although we know that it will be a lot of hard work.” Troiano and Dupuy were contested by candidates Liz Pharr and Stephanie Morgan.

Newly-elected members enter SCC, CCRL, and Review Board

By Mary Laura Moretz
Staff writer

Amidst the highly publicized SGA and Union races last week, competition for places in smaller student administration committees ranged from an uncontested nomination to a three-day-long run-off. Sophomore Dennis Seavers ran without competition for a space on the Review Board. The Review Board deals with appeals by students charged with Honor Code violations and “works closely with the Honor Code, which is something I have really wanted to do,” says Seavers. Soon to resign as an independent SGA senator, Seavers waits with “enthusiasm” to take his place on the board. New additions to the Student Conduct Council are junior Matt Foreeand sophomore A. R. Barrington. Barrington says he feels “ready to get involved with the inner workings of the school” and is “looking forward to meeting Matt.” Says Foree, “I am honored and excited to get the SCC position.” Run-off after run-off finally produced two winners in the election for the Council on Campus and Religious Life. Letitia Campbell and Nicole Howard emerged victorious last Wednesday. Howard says she sees the greatest part of their new job as “getting faculty ... and students to work together to help Davidson.”

Basketball courts named: Baker, Belk...
By Randy HARTWELL
Staff writer

The Ortega name will briefly join the ranks of the school’s major benefactors after Senior Adriana Ortega won the raffle benefiting Reading Buddies last Wednesday. Members of Reading Buddies, the service organization which sponsored the contest, sold chances for students, faculty, and staff to name the basketball courts for two dollars each. Ortega’s name will be inscribed on a plaque mounted on one of the new court’s goalposts.

Reading Buddies are Davidson students who help local children improve their reading. The organization’s small annual budget will be greatly helped by the funds raised, allowing expansion. “We made $650 — ten times our annual budget,” says Reading Buddies Co-chair Tim Ogden.

Senior Class President B.J. Wonderbread performed at the Pi Kappa Alpha house Saturday night as part of the Midwinters festivities. The crowd was responsive, but mellow.

Brandon Clarke
February 6
February 13

The Accelerated Learning Program is a series of four "on target" workshops for Davidson students who are looking for ways to be more efficient and effective learners. It takes only 75 minutes of your time per session and meets in the College Union BIG SCREEN ROOM.

Mondays 7:00 - 8:15 p.m.
BUILDING RAPPORT with FACULTY: How to approach faculty in class and afterwards
CO-SPONSOR: PHI DELTA THETA

STUDY GROUPS: How to form and utilize a team approach to studying (without violating the Honor Code).
CO-SPONSOR: PI KAPPA ALPHA

Professor Clark Ross
Professor John Kello and Professor Maurya MacNeil
Sponsored by the Office of Academic Affairs

Rudell, who organized the event, says that it is up to next year’s senior class president to decide whether to hold the raffle again. “I’m very happy with the way it turned out ... I think that the naming represents the selflessness of the student body. It signifies something we should be about,” says Rudell.

Chair of the Campaign for Davidson Jamie May ran the drawing. He refuted a common perception of the contest: “Whatever you do, don’t make a joke of this. Every name on this campus is associated with fundraising. Whoever wins becomes a part of that.” The winner had to be present to win, so the few present expected to be there for the long haul. Ortega’s ticket was the second one drawn, however, so the formalities ended quickly. Asked how the new plaque would read, Ortega said, “I only have two names, and they’re not that long.”

INSTITUTE FOR STUDY ABROAD
BUTLER UNIVERSITY

UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES IN GREAT BRITAIN
AUSTRALIA
IRELAND
NEW ZEALAND

Fully integrated study at British, Irish, New Zealand, and Australian universities
FALL OR SPRING SEMESTER * FULL YEAR
INSTEP * SUMMER PROGRAM * INTERNSHIPS

Study Abroad Information Session
Representative: Steve Seaworth
Date: Monday, Feb. 6th
Location: College Union, Morrison Rm. 4:00 P.M.

For further information please contact:
Your Study Abroad Office on campus or the Institute for Study Abroad, Butler University, 4600 Sunset Avenue, Indianapolis, IN 46208, Tel: 317/283-9336 or 1/800-368-6852 Ext. 9336.