C.U0 A YU, Bal

OR TA LIB ERTA'S

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1995

NUMBER 14

Campbell awarded Rhodes

By Mandy Curtis
Executive Editor

After sitting in a room, discussing every article in The New York Times, making paper hats with the newspaper, and reading poetry aloud with 12 other Rhodes Scholarship finalists for four hours Saturday, senior political science major Letitia Campbell first heard she was awarded a Rhodes Scholarship.

In the past year, Campbell traveled to India with the Davidson Program, to Malawi as a Stuart Scholar, and to China as a Presbyterian Church delegate to the Fourth World Conference on Women held in Beijing. With a NationsBank grant she will travel to Prague to do research this summer. In the fall, she will begin her two to three years study at Oxford University, England, in the School of Politics, Economics, and Philosophy.

Campbell, this year, is one of four from her region, one of 32 nationwide, and one of 75 worldwide to receive a Rhodes Scholarship, one of the most prestigious graduate scholarships in the world. Nominated as one of two representatives from her home state of Alabama, Campbell went on to the district level interviews in Houston, Texas. Of the 12 nominees from the “Gulf District” including Alabama, Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma, and Texas, she and three others were announced recipients.

Campbell becomes the 22nd Rhodes Scholar from Davidson and is the first from Davidson since 1983, when Hunter Monroe received the award. Other Rhodes Scholars from Davidson have included late Secretary of State Dean Rusk in 1930, former CEO of Time Magazine Jason McManus in 1958, and Elizabeth Kiss in 1982.

Away from Davidson for a month at the start of the semester to attend the Women’s Conference in Beijing, Campbell has still managed to balance five classes, to chair the Women’s Issues Committee, to participate in Warner Hall, to serve on the Council on

See Campbell on page 5

Davidson’s timeless tradition takes a twist

By Kirsten Recknagel
Staff Writer

Nearly 700 expectant pairs of eyes were fixed on Chambers’ rooftop Tuesday evening, as a spotlight cut through the darkness, illuminating the form of a mysterious red-suited character with a snow-white beard peering down from above the third story. But as he swung his round belly over the rooftop ledge, the strange fellow’s identity soon became clear.

To the tune of “Santa Claus is Coming to Town,” Davidson’s own Santa repelled down the face of one of Chambers’ distinctive columns.

The mass of candle-bearing students gathered on the lawn be-

See Unionmas on page 3

DISORIENTING THE WOLFPACK

You are getting sleepy ...

At the Davidson-NC State basketball game on Saturday, students attempt to make the Wolves see spots.

RLO no longer moving sophomores

“It took a semester to get where I am now. I don’t want to start over.”

By Joanna Johnson & Jason McMullan
Asst. News Editor & Staff Writer

Last Friday night, Davidson’s first and only co-ed hall received some troubling news in a letter from RLO — the male half of the hall had to move due to the number of women returning in the Spring. But after a series of meetings, these residents learned that they wouldn’t have to move after all.

Each semester, RLO hopes the number of students leaving campus will closely match the number of students coming back to live on campus. According to Director of Residence Life Kurt Holmes, students wait until the last minute to tell RLO of their plans to go abroad, which forces RLO to quickly figure out housing assignments for the next semester.

Holmes states that the task is always difficult, but this year proved to be especially frustrating.

“We track our rumor list doggedly,” Holmes states, “and usually the numbers come up close, except for this year.”

Holmes explains that this is an “odd year” in terms of trying to figure out housing because an unusually high number of women are returning in the Spring. According to Holmes, when RLO discovered that they would be 20 beds short for women this Spring, they thought that moving the eight men off of First Akers would be a good solution to securing rooms for returning women.

For one, the hall represented the highest percentage of students already leaving second semester. As Holmes states, there would be “the least number of movements for the best available space.”

In addition, there were already four vacant rooms in dorms up the hill, meaning that these eight residents could relocate in their roommate pairs.

In a meeting with First Akers residents and Kurt Holmes, the sophomores expressed frustration not only because RLO wanted them to move but because they were expected to move during finals. Some thought that the decision reflected a desire to abolish the co-ed hall, which they felt was unjusti-

See Dismantle on page 3

inside THIS WEEK

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1

Davidson, NC 28036

Volunteer briefs

Learn how Davidson students and community members are giving this holiday season.

NEWS 4

Voices

Chris Frampton writes his last Davidsonian Opinions piece.

OPINIONS 7

Film festival

Senior English majors showcase their talents in a cinematic extravaganza.

ARTS & LIVING 9

Soccer

Davidson to host national team play.

SPORTS 10