2 BRIEFS

More SAC representatives named

At the April 11 SGA meeting, co-chairs of the Student Advisory Committee to the Director of Public Safety were named.
The non-SGA co-chair is former senator Lucian Dervan, and the SGA co-chair is Rusk senator Mary Laura Moretz.

But where do you keep the ammo?

SAE senator Will Cowan updated the SGA on his efforts to find a place for students who hunt during the
school year to keep their guns. It violates school policy and state law to possess a gun on campus, so
students used to keep their guns at Dean Terry’s home. This is no longer an option, and Cowan has been
working with the Campus Police to resolve the problem.

Cowan proposed letting students keep their guns in the evidence room of the police station, but according to Cowan, Director
of Public Safety and Police Ray Thrower “wasn’t real receptive to it [the idea].” Cowan has also been working with
the College’s General Counsel Bart Landes as well. The old policy of storing guns off campus is still in use,
but Cowan et al. are seeking other solutions.

Davidson and the O.J. Trial

1992 graduate Michele Carswell has found herself in the internship of a lifetime. Carswell is a clerk for the now-famous
Superior Court justice Lance Ito. Working on the O.J. Simpson case has been the experience of a lifetime, says Carswell:
“It’s an incredible experience. Every facet of law is part of this trial. I thought it would be interesting to
be part of history, but it’s turning into a real education. We’re dealing with constitutional issues, DNA, evidence, and procedural
matters in this trial.”

Carswell has also interned with the Public Defenders’ Office in Washington, D.C., and worked in the Public Defender’s Office in
Santa Ana, CA, this past summer.

-taken from the Davidson Journal

Send any news brief tips to Assistant News Editor Matt Eirich

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, APRIL 24, 1995

Computer Services to expand and update campus network

By Jay Jennings
Staff writer

In response to the growing number of colleges that have expanded computer facilities, Davidson’s Computer Services recently made a move
to modernize Davidson’s computer network. Coordinator of Academic Facilities and Services Lydia Lorenzin says the “college and the Computer Center
recognized the need to expand networking.” She says that the Computer Center hears questions from current students about the possibility
of having network capabilities in dorm rooms.

To address these requests and others, Davidson hired Trellis Communications. Trellis will assess the current network in the next few
weeks to look for the most cost-effective way to update and set up the system while allowing for future expansion.
They will implement a master plan that will encompass the next ten years.

Assistant Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano says that Davidson is behind other campuses in computer facilities and is looking for
ways to catch up in a hurry. She says that the College has already put aside funds for the updating,
which will be a very expensive process. The cost is secondary, Marsicano says, because there is “generalAgreement that the campus
needs to be networked and students need access from their dorms.” The Residence Life Office and Physical Plant will work
with the Computer Center to update the network. Installing network access in dorm rooms would involve extensive rewiring and changes
to the dorm rooms. Lorenzin sees the network expanding into all academic buildings, hopefully providing faculty with access from their
offices. Marsicano is a member of the Web Oversight Committee which will address new issues and policies that need to
be set regarding the network. Issues such as honor code concerns on the network and freedom of speech will be
discussed. A need has developed for these new policies because of the expanding applications and increased use of the network.
To accommodate the increased use of the system, the Computer Center recently expanded the number of modem lines from 13
to 16. Network access in dorm rooms, however, would make the modems obsolete. Lorenzin sees the possibilities of network printing,
software, and other applications. These services are now offered in the computer centers. With the new system, the computer labs
might become more specialized to offer services students cannot receive through their rooms.

Minors sent back to the drawing board
By CATHERINE ANDERSON

Write for News. Call Matt, MC, or Russ in The Davidsonian offices, where they spend most of their time.

Staff writer

The faculty has tabled the Educational Policy Committee’s proposal to allow students the opportunity to minor citing disagreements with the
policy, specifically the need for a minimum GPA to be attached to the requirement. “[The minimum GPA] is something that
the (SGA) Council on Academic Affairs is very opposed to,” says Council Chair Clair Freeman. According to Freeman, a limit
would prove to stifle rather than help a student interested in minoring. SGA President Bill Gullan agrees: “I feel that
... taking a minor in another area of interest will help students’ overall academic standing.” He says that pressures from
society and parents often serve to dissuade students from particular majors because they feel their interest in a particular course
of study doesn’t look as good in the eyes of employers and graduate schools. The opportunity of a minor may
satisfy the creative longings of the student while appeasing the external factors that dictate his or her choice of major
and choice of career interest.

In support of the implementation of a minor system, Carol Jordan, the Director of Career Services, feels that “any uniqueness
that a Davidson student can present to a graduate school or an employer” would increase the student’s chances to be
considered. The proposal will be sent back to the Educational Policy Council, which will decide what to propose to the
faculty at their next meeting in May.

Let’s Fondue!
A unique culinary experience of fruity wines and delectable entrees. Start with creamy melted cheese fondues. Fondue flavored Chicken, tender
Filet Mignon, Teriyaki Marinated Sirloin, and Seafood with a variety of tasty sauces. Top off the event with a mouth-watering
chocolate fondue dessert! Reservations Suggested. 334-4400 — The MELT DO, 901 South Kings Drive. Open every night from 5:00 p.m.
