RTS & LIVING MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1995

From Loco to Local Blues Explosion and Ben Folds Five contrast with each other’s new albums

By CURTIS MANN Staff Writer

In the hardly extensive liner notes on the Jon Spencer Blues Explosion’s 1993 release Extra Width, consisting solely of excerpts from a Bad Vibe magazine review of a jam session, writer Herb Hitts notes, “... The explosion celebrated life with the rock’n’roll spirit raging inside their souls.” Now the Explosion’s back with a second album, Orange. This time there are no liner notes — and with good reason; the music speaks for itself.

If you are searching for some traditional, Mississippi Delta Blues, look elsewhere. This is gritty, hard-edged, New York inner-city blues of the worst kind. Cocky, rough-shod gems pervade Orange from the opening “Bellbottoms” all the way through to the slick, occasionally funky “Greyhound.” Spencer, former frontman of the noisy Pussy Galore, writes about cowboys, diggin’ ditches, sweatin’ profusely, and great sex. He slurs, scowls, and screams through 13 tracks, laying down a couple of splendid instrumentals along the way. Definitely not for the weak at heart. For tame, clean-cut blues, go buy Clapton’s From the Cradle, but if you thirst for something with gut-wrenching soul and a nasty disposition, let the Blues Explosion rock you “Star Trek style,” whatever that means.

Somewhere on the diametrically opposite pole of the music spectrum lies North Carolina’s own Ben Folds Five. This threesome takes a minimalist approach with Ben Folds’ superb piano playing and vocals at the forefront, aided by bass and drums. Their eponymous debut LP on Passenger Records harkens back to early Billy Joel. That is to say, the Piano Man without all the dreadful overproduction and dramatics which have plagued his recent efforts. Famed southern act producer Caleb Southern does a splendid job of hands-off production. The listener can delight in simple harmonies and straightforward, well-crafted pop tunes. Sure, there’s some added saccharine in the lyrics of many songs, most of which deal with old acquaintances, a drugged-out uncle named Walter, and the like, but a “hummability” and the can’t-get-it-out-of-your-head feel of the album prevails in the end. If you can stand pizza with a little bit of extra cheese, this is sheer harmonious bliss.

By GEORDIE SCHIMMEL Staff Writer

To set the scene: it is a crisp Saturday night, and the encircling throng chants, “Toga! Toga! Toga!” You have never seen so many naked legs in one place. You are standing behind Officer Scott Misenhammer. You ask him how many students he anticipates jailing. “It just depends on how much alcohol they drink,” he says.

Turning around, you stumble into junior Chris Salud, who freely volunteers, “Well, since you asked me, this is a great disappointment. They published ‘Otis Otis Otis,’ but what do we have — ‘nothing nothing nothing.’” Many others shared Salud’s sentiment. Otis was supposed to play at 10:30 p.m. but made no appearance until half past eleven. And then, before anyone realized that he was actually performing, he was gone again ... destination unknown. But while he was on-stage, Otis Day proved why he drew the biggest crowd in the middle of Patterson Court since The Dave Matthews Band’s performance in 1993.

Otis has acquired several new Knights since he appeared in Animal House, but other than that (and about a half-pound of hair) he seems very much the man from the movie. He played “Shamma-lama-ding-dong,” of course, and “Shout,” both from that already-too-much-referred-to movie. The band presented these and other famous Otis tunes in their typical jam style that incorporated elements from classic rock and roll, blues, and soul.and soul. Special thanks to the College Union, Black Student Coalition, Warner Hall, Rusk, Conner, and Phi Delta Theta for sponsoring the event.

Commons with a twang
Bluegrass Experience plays to open International Week
By JAMES BERRY
Staff Writer

“How am I going to write a whole article about this? I don’t know anything about bluegrass!” My roommate and I had just settled down to dinner on a slow Tuesday evening to the sweet sounds of an acoustic set plunking along from the dark side of Commons. It’s true. I know nothing about the music and counted myself lucky simply to recognize the instruments which weren’t quite as foreign as I’d expected. In answer to my question, my roommate stared at me dumbfounded. “Just look at these guys! Are you trying to tell me you couldn’t write a page on Earl alone?”

Earl, we had just learned, was the powerhouse behind the banjo. His silver hair sported a rigid crew cut and the sternness behind his eyes was enough to convince me that the man had battalions under his control. It was this stone gaze that kept me from betraying any reaction whatsoever to the music or the jokes that accompanied it for fear of his pacing the 30 feet that separated us and punting my unruly little butt into oblivion. Whether his somewhat paunch...

See Bluegrass on page 12

Robbie Lee
The Bluegrass Experience entertained Commons diners on Monday evening.

Disturbing thriller Seven scores in originality
By EP ACLE
Movie Critic

One school of thought believes that everything written has basically been written before. These days it’s become increasingly difficult not to extrapolate this school of thought onto film. In an age where there are few new ideas coming out of Hollywood, the cannibalization of older films has become standard practice. At first glance, Seven seems to continue this trend. What’s worse, the direction makes it difficult at times to even understand what’s happening. Upon closer review, however, it becomes apparent that Seven does some new things which finally make it worth seeing.

The story should sound familiar to any regular moviegoer. A deranged serial killer is on the loose, killing innocent victims left and right. A young, fresh-faced detective with a temper (Brad Pitt) gets paired up with a wise older veteran on the verge of retiring (Morgan Freeman). Together the dynamic duo will fight, argue, become friends, then finally try to find the madman before he strikes again. Hey, Lethal Weapon meets Silence of the Lambs!

First the bad news. David Fincher directed Seven. Knowing this should automatically set off a warning signal to anyone who has ever seen his previous effort, Alien 3. Great directors tell a good story while still managing to pull off certain flourishes that let the viewer know who was behind the camera (think of the sense of wonder that at least one character always dis...

See Seven on page 11

CyberSites
By TERESA WHITE
Assistant Arts & Living Editor

Character games. his two cats.

http://voyager.paramount.com/
There’s a bazillion sites on the internet, and I’ve wasted far too much time sorting through ones that aren’t worth my attention. Every week I’ll list here a few that, well, probably aren’t worth my attention, but got it anyway. Assume that all addresses are prefixed by http://

http://metro.turnpike.net/F/fishtank/
The Fisher is an old friend and my connection to Charleston, my hometown’s music scene. Don’t laugh. She’s nice.

http://sp1.berkeley.edu/nowhere.html
Home of the Find-the-Spam and Guess-the-Dictator-or-Sit-Com-Character games.

http://www.netgate.net/~howeird/howeird.html
Howeird’s homepage, one of the strangest I’ve seen. It not only includes his family album and baby pictures, but also a biography of his two cats.

Jay, this one’s for you. It’s Paramount Studio’s page promoting all their new movies and old TV shows, but the only one I looked at was Star Trek. It’s better than the last movie.