2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1995

Celebrating the old Union, awaiting the new
By SARAH TEACHWORTH
Staff Writer

Though it may have gone unnoticed by most Davidson students, the Grey College Union turned twenty years old this fall. Ironically, its birthday party was also the setting for the unveiling of the feasibility study for a new Union in Johnston Gym.

To celebrate the Union’s birthday, the Union Board, led by president Morgan Perry, threw a party last Monday, complete with decorations, cake, and ice cream. The organizers displayed relics from Union activities of the past, such as t-shirts, photographs, and contracts with visiting bands, around the 900 Room.

Union Director William Brown was quite excited about the event. Noting the importance of the Union to the student body, he said, “We ought to celebrate the Union every year.” After being introduced by Perry, Brown was the first speaker of the evening. He began by speaking about the importance of college unions in general. “A union needs to be a place where, if you come into, or even come close to it, you feel welcome,” he said.

He went on to describe what the plans were for our present college union twenty years ago. At the time, many people wanted to have post office boxes in the Union. This way, students would see each other at the Union every day and would be more likely to stay and participate in other activities or even just lounge around for a while. However, because of sufficient opposition, it was decided not to deliver mail to the Union.

The bar in the 900 Room was also a prominent social facility, especially since the drinking age was eighteen. With the change in drinking age, though, students had one less reason to come to the Union. Also, there were some who wanted the main food service facility to be joined to the building. Because this plan fell through, students continue to spend their mealtimes eating far away from the Union. With the demise of these three...

Accounts of U.N. Women’s Conference offer hope for change
By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
Staff Writer

“In Chinese they call a daughter a ‘female son’,” noted Mary Dawn Bailey, one of three speakers at Thursday night’s presentation on the Fourth World Conference on Women. Sponsored by the Dean Rusk Program and part of Global Women’s Awareness Week, Thursday’s program, titled “Beyond Beijing,” featured three panelists who had attended the Fourth World Conference in Beijing, China, in September.

Bailey, a writer for The Charlotte Observer, June Kimmel, Regional Director of the North Carolina Council For Women, and Letitia Campbell, a senior at Davidson, who traveled to Beijing with the Presbyterian Church and a grant from the Dean Rusk Program, shared their recent experiences and insights concerning the conference.

Bailey began the presentation with a slide show introduction to the U.N. conference. While her audience viewed slides of the conference’s opening ceremonies, famous attendees, and local activities, Bailey offered a brief history of previous U.N. Women’s Conferences, the first of which, held in Mexico City twenty years ago, drew 3,000 attendees. In contrast, Bailey pointed out that Beijing’s conference this September boasted an attendance of approximately 30,000 people.

Describing the atmosphere of determination and energy which marked the conference, Bailey recounted several of the 300 workshops held each day in Beijing and its neighboring city Huairou.

Campbell spoke next, focusing on the role of young people at the conference. Citing a statistic that 50 percent of the world’s population is currently under the age of twenty-five, Campbell stressed her belief that the world’s youth have an immense responsibility and opportunity to change the lives of many women all over the world. Along with seventy other young observers to the conference, Campbell worked with a Youth Caucus in the development of its own document. Approximately “ten percent of the conference attendees were under the age of thirty,” cited Campbell. “No other U.N. conference has had so much youth involvement.”Concluding the panelists’ presentation, June Kimmel described her interactions with the Conference’s international attendees, most of whom, she said, “know a lot more about [Americans] than we know about them.” She was asked more than once by interested women from countries around the world when she thought Hillary Clinton would run for president. Kimmel also discussed the tension and conflict that arise when a young organization like the U.N. demands social changes of a nation with as long a history as China, which, she noted, “was building the Great Wall in 200 B.C.” However, the panelists agreed that their experiences at the U.N.’s Fourth World Conference on Women provided encouraging evidence of the world’s realization that, as Kimmel explained, “if you don’t let [women] be a part of the decision-making process, you’ve lost half the brains.”

Important functions, the Union lost much of the importance it was intended to have. The construction of dorms down the hill and of the Senior Apartments aggravated the problem by shifting the center of campus activity away from the Union. One of the main problems Brown sees with the present Union is that there aren’t enough offices for student organizations. The building was constructed as a library, not as a meeting place. As a result, many organizational offices are too small and not easily accessible. For these reasons, there has been talk for years of creating a new Union. The idea was first proposed back in 1985. The amount of interest has fluctuated over time. Last summer, a study was done to see where the “heartbeat” of the campus was. The answer was Duke dormitory. This news was exciting because Johnston Gym sits right beside it. Little and Associates was hired to do a feasibility study to see if the old gym could be converted into a Union which would provide for the needs of the school. They said it could be easily done.

After Brown’s speech, Dean Shandley gave a brief explanation of the procedure of the feasibility study. He then unveiled Little and Associates’ plan for a new Union. According to the plans, the Union would have to be three stories. In it would be adequate space for all of the student organizations currently in the Union as well as more. Among other things, there would be a two-story cafe with outdoor seating available, the bookstore, a ticket office, two elevators, a game room, exercise facilities, and the laundry. Davidson Outdoors would stay in basically the same place it now occupies. They would also build on to Johnston Gym to add an outdoor amphitheater on the side facing Duke and a theater with a capacity of 800 on the other side. According to the plans, there would be enough room to put post office boxes in if the post office requests Davidson to move out or if there is interest in having the boxes on campus.

While these plans are exciting, Shandley cautioned that a new Union is not going to spring up overnight. The school’s first financial priority is a new life sciences facility. Until that project is underway, fundraising for the Union cannot begin. Also, the ideas Little and Associates came up with are in no way carved in stone. Chances are that various changes will be made in the next few years. Shandley said that the school will probably have a design competition before selecting an architect. There will also be planning forums so students, faculty, and staff can contribute their ideas. The process is going to be long. Brown admitted that it would take a miracle for any current student to see a new Union during their Davidson career. The future use of the Grey College Union is still dubious. Shandley says only, “It hasn’t been determined.”

Do you have suggestions about ways to improve the Commons, the bookstore, the Union Cafe, the laundry, and other auxiliary services? Come share your thoughts with administrators and other students at the TOWN MEETING Thursday, November 9th, 1995 at 7:00 PM in the Conference Room. Topic: AUXILIARY SERVICES.