OPINIONS. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1995 — Naresh Nagella

Minors and the liberal arts

This Monday we all should receive our course registration packets for next semester. For seniors, it will be their last ever such Davidson ritual. For others, it is usually:

a) anticipation of your next semester along the following thought process: “Alright, I got a 1.42 this semester. I'll just work real hard the next eight semesters and get all A’s the rest of my time at Davidson. Mmmm... (1.42 + 4.0x7)/8 = 3.67!! Alright!!! Swimming Pools! Movie Stars! Harvard Law here I come!!!!"

b) “Alright!!! Choosing Courses!!! Fun with my advisor, my parents, and my mind. Sock it to me Liberal Arts!!!!"

or

c) For most of us, “gosh, I get to pick four more courses out of all those choices. It would be nice to take both math and English, but I have to decide on a major quickly. So many choices. So little time. Oh what to do!? Oh what to do?”

For many of the students that fall under the last category, their salvation/solution might lie in the realm of minors. Before getting into the specifics of this issue, I must preface the rest of the article by saying that this is an incredibly complex topic that cannot have all its intricacies, positions, and pros and cons expressed here. The best debate about this topic will occur between faculty, staff, and students on a campus-wide level. I intend to highlight only some of the advantages and disadvantages of minors through the endorsement of the current student proposal for minors.

First things first: students really want minors. Last year hundreds of students expressed approval of the institution of minors into the curriculum. Less than 5% of the student body expressed dissatisfaction with the prospect of minors. After near unanimous student approval, the proposal went to a faculty sub-committee on educational affairs, and it moved forward for a complete faculty vote. After much debate and discussion, the proposal lost by some 10 votes. Faculty cited that minors might compromise the liberal arts ideal, increase parental pressures on students, and lead to a compromise of teaching efficacy at the upper level since such classes are usually seminar in fashion and require a very small class size.

Top 50 colleges in the nation, over 65% offer minors. Most of these colleges are also deeply committed to the liberal arts. The granting of an overwhelming student and parental demand will “look” better than preserving a liberal arts cause. Remember, no one is forced to take minors. It is just always nice to have that option available.

Still, students should take heart. The faculty does have an excellent reason for restricting minors. Small liberal arts colleges just do not have the capability for restricting minors. The teachers are dedicated, hard-working, and each department institutes a GPA requirement, and ensures minors cannot overlap with double majoring and concentrations. This proposal should be accepted. It leads to the possibility of a biology major minoring in art and getting a more comprehensive education in the latter through a structured minor. Their diploma and resume will show more clearly their broad liberal arts emphasis than just saying “along with my major, I took a lot of courses in this...”

Now, departments with willing faculty and a few number of majors will be able to have substantive enrollments to be most effective. Minors would put more students into those classes, and the overall purpose of in-depth study might be lost. Now, lower-level courses would experience a much higher demand.

The first two arguments seem a little weak. The faculty allowed double majors last year. Clearly, to allow double majors and reject minors on the basis of sacrificing course diversity are ideologically conflicting. The possibility of increased parental pressure will always exist with or without minors. Parents prone to such acts will still say “all right son, major in Theater, but take a bunch of Economics courses anyway.” Also, parents do pay the tuition and curbing institutional advancements because it would lead to greater power for that group does not seem very fair.

Out of the top 20 liberal arts colleges, only six have minors. Practically, minors would almost be impossible to institute while maintaining our high quality of education. So, we are at a crossroads. The new major proposal makes the...Offering of minors the choice of Katie McKelvie

What did the Charlotte radio industry do during the pre-Hootie and pre-grunge age? Now, I have nothing against Hootie and the Blowfish; however, if they could get out of my car radio I'd really appreciate it. I don’t care if they are going blind looking at some girl while sitting on a fence holding Bob’s hand! Because of this hootigrungification of the airwaves recently, I’ve been scared to choose radio over tapes. Sometimes I get in my car and want something predictable. A tape can provide such stability; tapes eradicate speculation about song selection and order. But, when I’m feeling a little crazy, I’m ready to risk the unknown of the radio. Yet, you never know what’s in store these days on the old dial.

Last year, 92.3 was the old reliable of the airwaves. Promoting its lone sponsor “Liquid Bullet,” 92.3 played a variety of quality tunes with a minimum of chat. Now, however, I’m in a constant state of scanning. Even in other peoples’ cars, I must keep checking different channels because I’m sure there is a great song on out there somewhere and it’s just a matter of finding it. Yet, is there really anything good on the radio? It’s a question worth investigating.

As for morning talk shows, John Boy and Billy and Bob and Sherri drive me absolutely insane. All four have a sinister plot to blast my clock-radio, even if I set it on the Jazz Channel. Who hired these mutant people to tell annoying jokes and make prank calls two hours a day, five days a week?

95.1 The Edge is a whole different beast. The DJs for The Edge have the best job ever because all they do is put on a 12-song tape and leave for the whole day. They throw in a couple of ticket giveaways every few hours to give the impression that actual live people are in the studio but it’s definitely all a farce. Your cheap charade is not fooling us, Edge people!

The resident 95.1 experts on campus, the weight room work-study students, are witnesses to the redundancy of The Edge’s music. One weight room work-study, Chris Hess, works from one until three. He remarks that The Edge “plays the same songs over and over from one to three every day.” Another weight room frequenter, wrestler Seth Herman, has the following comments about The Edge: “it plays the same three songs 13 times a day for three months,” “it is cheesy as all get out,” and “the announcers suck.” Furthermore, he laments, “it’s too slow to lift to.” The consensus is clear: The gig is up! Charlotte radio needs to shape up. No more talk blabber or 24-hour grunge fests. Get Hootie and John Boy out of my car!

Needed fallout in enrollment, freeing the ability of first-year students’ course choice in finding their major and minor. Of course, departments experiencing crowded colloquiums, seminars, and lab space would not have to offer a minor since doing so would not be to the faculty’s or students’ advantage. The voluntary institution of minors should be looked at more in depth. The faculty should find out which of their departments want to institute minors and gauge student interest regarding minoring in those respective departments.

Now a challenge faces us all. As students, we of the classes ‘96-99 can change the Davidson experience for what we believe will be the better. We attend college here during one of the most changing and important periods of its history. It would be a shame to let apathy and misinformation overcome our effort to make the college a better place for future students. All of us who believe strongly in minors should talk with professors, SGA representatives, and each other via e-mail, office hours, and campus forums. There are many dedicated students trying to institute minors. The rest of the student body should join them. Even those students well into their major or content with their concentration should throw in their support. Believe it or not, I have no intentions of pursuing a minor. With a cohesive effort, student pleas can be effectively heard.

Finally, I encourage all players in this decision to approach it with an open mind. My opinion on minors can easily change once I learn more about them. Students should not see the faculty as misperceiving student interests with private agendas and beliefs. Faculty should not see students as a group set out to further verify academic efforts. Change must come from both sides and preferably the sooner the better. If anything, a campus-wide dialogue should come from this. I hope an opponent to minors will write in defending their stance. I hope this article will lead into classroom discussion about the subject. The faculty should take another serious look at the new proposal and hopefully endorse it. But, not before we all talk about it.

You KNOW—I THINK I’M RETAINING WATER...

Be cool. Get your picture in the paper. Write for Opinions. Call Jeff at -2148.