12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Summer Movie Medley: From Waterworld to Batman to Dumbo

By THE DAVIDSONIAN STAFF

As the summer ends, it is only appropriate that we reflect back and find a way to characterize the last three months of our lives. Summer movies, more than any other set of events, establish the tone and personality of summertime. I can remember back to the T2 summer (liquid metal graphics — way cool!), more recently the Jurassic Park summer (realistic dinosaurs — neat-o), and then the Gump summer (“Run, Forrest! Run!” Need I say more?). And now it seems we must characterize summer ‘95. It had its usual lineup of “blockbuster sure winners” such as Batman Forever, Waterworld, and Mortal Kombat, which were more spectacles than movies in most cases.

The most interesting thing about this summer was that people seem to be turning away from the “blockbuster” lineup in search of movies where the actors are more than just vehicles for the latest technical wonders of the silver screen. Apollo 13, Smoke, and even Clueless are films that drew a larger audience simply because the movies are about people rather than trumped-up special effects.

Batman Forever was an unfortunate disappointment. After all of its publicity, it failed to have the class or style of the first two Tim Burton-directed films. It was a collage of overly spectacular explosions, dizzy high-speed camera work, and silly, pat one-liners. The only redeemable aspect of the movie was Jim Carrey’s humorous caricature of the Riddler. The movie as a whole does not stick together from scene to scene and lacks the unique and memorable characterization of the previous Batman films.

Waterworld, the most expensive movie ever produced, had its triumph in the fact that it did not look excessive. The catamaran action scenes were original and exciting, but the sets and scenery did not overshadow the actors: Jeanne Tripplehorn was lovely, Dennis Hopper his usual deranged self, and Kevin Costner surprisingly subtle. There were a few problems, though. The film made no effort to explain how the floating communities were built, how an old man commandeered a refuse-blimp successfully, or how a huge supply of dry cigarettes became available to the landless. To top it all off, Costner had gills — little baby ones behind his ears. If that doesn’t make you shiver, you probably liked Calendar Girl.

Smoke is the jewel in the rough this summer. Strong performances by the entire cast, which includes veterans Harvey Keitel, William Hurt, Stockard Channing, and Forrest Whitaker, make this a must-see. An intricate weaving of ultimately interconnected lives, Smoke follows several plot lines but comes together fantastically by the end, showing the audience that we all are responsible for each other. “Optimistic” and “happy” are not two words generally used to describe an “artsy” film — which it is — but they fit it well. Smoke does have a rough edge which might keep some viewers at bay. It is a tale of redemption and reunion, compassion and concern so artfully done that one leaves the theater moved and content but doesn’t quite know why.

Apollo 13 was another one of this summer’s successful hits. It exemplified the classic, all-American journey into uncharted territory. In this case, the heroes are astronauts instead of settlers and the obstacle is space instead of the Wild West. Apollo 13 is beautifully directed by Ron Howard to give the audience an overwhelming impression of...The vastness of space and the fragility of man. All the acting was well executed with Tom Hanks still dazzling in his all-American stardom. It is definitely not a movie to miss.

Clueless’s intensity and depth can be summed up in the major insult of the movie: “You're a virgin who can’t drive.” The film is not exactly one to stretch the intellect, but one which reflects (albeit in a distorted view) the shallowness, stupidity, and constant trauma of age 15. Clueless is predictable and unrealistic, but so darn cute it is worth seeing.

Who would have thought to bring together Dennis Leary, Doug E. Doug, Danny Glover, and Ray Liotta in an attempt at heartwarming adventure? And to title it Operation Dumbo Drop? While Disney holds my utmost respect for their animated features, even they should ask themselves if the concepts of children’s entertainment, Dennis Leary’s acting, and tugging at the ole’ heartstrings really go together. If you’ve predicted so, get ready for a big surprise.

Mortal Kombat attempts to thrill the late-summer crowd with high-end special effects, fast-paced fighting scenes, and spelling everything with “K’s.” While this film sports no Kevin Costner, nor a Caped Crusader, it contains kudos of kicks for kiddies, and possibly for those crazy college kids. No discernible plot here, but a movie based on a video game probably doesn’t really need it anyway. If you crave the action of Enter the Dragon but wish to avoid the deep emotional commitment of Street Fighter, then perhaps this is the film for you. From a critical standpoint, it’s right up there with Operation Dumbo Drop, but if you are bored enough, then Mortal Kombat may add some craziness to your cruise to the movies.

The Edge from page 12

We learned to eat our rice and sambar without utensils, using only our right hands. The reason we never used our “unclean” left hands had something to do with the lack of toilet paper in the bathrooms. After a long but rewarding day teaching English at local schools, we played with the children until dinner. As we worked in Keel Ottivakkam longer, our English became more broken, our feet more bitten with mosquitoes, and our appearance more ragged. We never really knew how bad we looked because we didn’t have mirrors. I'll never know if the people on the buses stared at us because of our wild hair and torn clothes or because of our light-colored skin.

Although there is a push towards modernization in India, life changes very slowly. One of the most striking mental images I have is of the many couples on mopeds, with the woman’s traditional sari flying in the wind. Gandhi once said that the heart of India lies in its villages. Beyond the poverty and need, there is an innate beauty to the ancient village practices. I am thankful that I became a village girl — even though it was for only two weeks.

Hours: 10-5 Saturday
10-8 Monday-Friday

WELCOME BACK STUDENTS!

OUTDOORS Etc Ltd
Davidson's Complete Outdoors Store

LABOR DAY SALE
September 2-9

All hiking boots, backpacks, and sleeping bags 20-40% off
Tents and Black Diamond climbing ropes 20% off
All boats on sale
Call for prices

Shops on the Green: Exit 28; Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn
Telephone: 892-1848