THE DAVIDSONIAN _ SPORTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1995 15

Rugby takes one from UNCC
By WARREN BURFORD
Staff Writer

The rivalry between Davidson and UNCC is intense in any sport, but on the rugby pitch it is fierce. Just
ask the crowd that braved the crisp drizzle Saturday to watch the Wildcats squeeze out a 25-21 win over the
49ers.

RUGBY

They saw the Wildcats control the first half, watched both teams play tremendous rugby during the second half and, during
the tension-filled last minute, they saw Tom Shelburne dive between several players in the try zone to give the Wildcats
the win. Davidson took an 8-0 lead by halftime. Exhausted, junior Keith Kleeman falls as the ball rolls out of
his reach during the Wildcats’ game against Portland.

“We came out strong in the first half like usual, and that was good because the second half was a
different story,” junior Jeremy Chason said. After taking a 15-7 lead in the second half, the Wildcats converted their second
penalty. But the 49ers then scored two quick tries and converted both kicks, taking a 21-18 lead and completely turning
the tide of the match.

Shelburne said, “We knew the last five minutes would be the most important because it was probably going to be
tight in the end.” It was a good thing that he was preparing for a close finish. With less than
a minute the referee gave the Wildcats a penalty. With time in mind, Shelburne grabbed the ball, marked the spot,
and ran into the try zone for the win. Davidson hopes to continue its momentum Saturday at North Carolina.

Rob Kosicki

Soccer from page 14

“It’s a huge loss,” Clarke said. “But Jeff Harrell has been playing very well for us. He will probably step
in until Ryan gets back. So we lose a key player, but we get a very good player stepping in,
and we’ll just have to see how it goes.”

Clarke has high expectations for this year’s squad, calling it “the most skilled team” he’s played on at Davidson and
saying his goal is to win the national title. “With (goalie) Alex (Deegan) and (sweeper) Isaac (Stewart) in the back,
we can play with and beat anybody,” Clarke said. “They save our butts all the time, and if we didn’t
have players of their caliber back there we would get scored on, but they keep us in games.”

In fact, Deegan was ranked sixth nationally in goalkeeping early last week with a goals-against-average of just 1.04. Both Slagle
and Clarke mentioned that the team could improve on making runs up front and coordinating their offense more effectively, but
overall they were pleased with the performance of the team so far.

This week, the Wildcats finally get to play at home after taking to the road for their first 10 games
and immediately have three important matches. After Duke on Tuesday, Furman, Davidson’s stiffest conference competition, visits on Friday and bitter
rival UNCC is here Sunday. Barring an injury, Clarke will pass into second in career scoring sometime this season behind
only Rob Ukrop, who wound up his playing career by helping lead Davidson to the NCAA final four here in
1992.

Wasps sting Cats for first shutout since 1989
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Staff Writer

Davidson committed five turnovers and its offense never got on track, mustering a sickly 150 total yards, as 1994 Old
Dominion Athletic Conference champion Emory and Henry dominated in a 32-0 thrashing on a wet, bitter Saturday afternoon.

FOOTBALL

The Wildcats suffered their first shutout since a 51-0 blanking against Wofford in 1989. Davidson (1-2) held its own for
the first 20 minutes, but eventually offensive deficiencies led to defensive breakdowns. Starting quarterback Tommy Dugan threw an interception near
midfield and the Wasps (3-0) capitalized immediately, sending running back J.D. Davis (a whopping 200 yards on 22 carries) in
from 42 yards for the score on the first play from scrimmage.

After another Dugan interception less than a minute later, the overworked defense allowed another short scoring drive when Wasps back
Andy Stanley muscled it in from the 2. Three fourth-quarter TDs, a 2-yard Davis plunge, 7-yard Stanley scamper, and a
1-yard Chris Helvey score were all relatively inconsequential, as the Wasps had already run away with the contest by that
time.

The Emory and Henry offensive attack posted prodigious numbers, running 82 plays and amassing 24 first downs on 472 yards
total offense, 336 of which came on the ground. But head coach Tim Landiswas nonetheless pleased with his defense’s overall
effort. Granted, the unit allowed 32 points, but all five of the Wasp scoring drives started in Davidson territory, due
largely to the Wildcats' turnovers (three interceptions and two fumbles). The average Emory and Henry touchdown march was just 34.4
yards on 3.8 plays. “They (the defense) can’t stay on the field for that long and expect to be effective
the whole time,” Landis said. “I thought the defensive effort was tremendous. The third quarter, I can’t remember a better
defensive performance. I really take my hat off to our defensive players.” Bo Bartholomew, James Cassidy, Will Robinson, Gray Broughton,
Chris Hess, Shreve Ariail, and Ben Spivey all starred for the Wildcat defensive corps.

As for the Davidson offense, it failed to establish any sort of rhythm against the physical E & H defense,
compiling just 10 first downs. A trio of Wildcats quarterbacks, Dugan, Jay Ariail, and Cliff Henry, managed to complete only
seven of 26 pass attempts for 47 yards. Davidson was also plagued by injuries, as linebacker Ryan Gist suffered an
ankle injury and starting free safety Dan Dearing sat out the entire second half with a concussion. Freshman wideout Mike
Harrington, a valuable contributor with eight catches in the first two games, also had a concussion.

Tailback Lorenzo Moll was the lone bright spot for the Wildcats, as he rushed for 89 yards on 20 carries
and had two receptions for another 20 yards, thus accounting for over 70% of the Wildcat yardage. “He’s a tough
kid, he continues to impress me every week,” Landis said. “He’s going to be one heck of a player. We’re
lucky to have him for three more years.” Added Landis, “It was a great opportunity for us to make a
mark, and we missed that opportunity.”

Wildcats shut down Charleston Southern

Women’s soccer earns a 1-0 victory Saturday

By Kristy Forp
Staff Writer

Coming back from a mini-slump against some of the tougher teams in the South, the women’s soccer team solidly defeated
host Charleston Southern Saturday 1-0.

WOMEN’S SOCCER

Despite adverse weather conditions, the team came out strong and ready to play. Although it did not rain, the field
was still muddy. “I think we handled the elements well,” Coach Kevin Hundley said. “We just put the conditions out
of our mind and played.”

The Wildcats (3-5) dominated from the beginning. In her first game as a starter, Lucia Plosser scored unassisted in the
first six minutes. The regular front-line tandem of Heather Wineberg and Claudia Lombard was slightly altered by putting Plosser and
Wineberg up front, with Lombard as a trailing forward. With this type of three-person attack, more scoring opportunities arose.

Going into halftime, the Wildcats led 1-0 and Charleston Southern had not taken a shot on goal. Shannon Lowrance, Melissa
Moser, Katherine Cornelius, and Natasha Vasavada led the defense. Despite being out most of the week with strep throat, Vasavada
said she felt fine and ended up playing most of the game while covering the Cougars’ leading scorer.

“We’re coming along defensively, and we played well offensively,” Hundley said. “Hopefully, if we score a few more goals, we
will have a little cushion and that will take some of the pressure off of the defense.”

With the shutout, Allison Noznesky continued to play well in goal, lowering her goals-against-average to 1.25. The Wildcats play at
Appalachian State Wednesday and visit Virginia Tech away Sunday. They don’t return home until Oct. 4 against N.C. State.

SPORTS BRIEFS

Sailing places well at Clemson

The Davidson sailing team tied for third place, then lost a tiebreaker to the College of Charleston Sunday in the
first Northpoints regatta in Clemson, S.C. In the A Division, Andy Cole and Emily Giacomini took first, while, in the
B Division, Brice Ivy and Erica Smith were fourth.

In the eight-school race, The Citadel was first and Clemson was second. The second Northpoints regatta will be at Davidson
both Saturday and Sunday.

Wildcat games to be broadcast over airwaves

All of Davidson’s football games and the rest of the men’s soccer games this season, except for Friday’s match against
Furman, will be broadcast on the radio. The football games can be heard on WCGC 1290-AM out of Belmont, starting
30 minutes before game time and featuring Frank Santore (‘81) as the play-by-play man and Joe Mark as color commentator.
Dick Landis, father of coach Tim Landis, is also part of the team. Santore and Matt Spear will do the
soccer games on WHIP 1350-AM out of Mooresville.
