_ SPORTS

14

MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1995

-~ Homecoming 1995 |

Wildcats come home, but lose again

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Staff Writer

The schedule said Methodist, but Davidson’s primary opponents in Saturday’s Homecoming football game were the weather and themselves, as the Wildcats once again put themselves in a position to win only to fall near the end.

FOOTBALL

Davidson (1-5) bettered Methodist (4-2) in nearly all facets of the game, compiling 19 first downs on 79 plays against the Monarch’s 11 on 65. The offense, after struggling the past few weeks, re-emerged to amass 327 yards, 230 in the air, compared to Methodist’s 219 and just 81 in the air.

But only one statistic mattered to the weary Wildcats as they trudged off the sodden field: Methodist 16, Davidson 14.

After an uneventful first quarter, in which the Monarchs claimed an early 3-0 lead on a 25-yard Tony Bugeja field goal, the Wildcats established their offense from the outset in the second, marching 66 yards on 12 plays to set up a 1-yard scoring plunge by Dan Jonas with 11 minutes 37 seconds left.

Methodist answered with a DeCarlos West 4-yard scoring run, only to have Davidson take a 14-10 halftime lead on a 39-yard bomb from Tommy Dugan to Pete Perri.

Because of a violent halftime visit from Mother Nature, which dumped violent rains on the field and scattered the crowd, both squads struggled to maintain possession, let alone score, in the second half, combining for six turnovers.

But the gravest mistake belonged to Davidson in a fumbled snap on its own nine in the fourth quarter.

The Monarchs took advantage of that to grab the lead for the third and final time, as a 4-yard Brian Turner scoring toss to Jesse Iverson, followed by a muffed extra point closed the scoring at 16-14.

After five straight losses, four of which could easily have been Wildcats wins, the team had a predictable heads-down look to it.

Davidson coach Tim Landis again gave ample credit to the opponent, adding that he and his staff were still confident the Wildcats would pick up several wins to close out the season.

“To be human is to be down in this situation,” Landis said. “Do I think they’ll give up and quit? No, not a chance.”

Consistent freshman Lorenzo Moll registered yet another respectable rushing performance with 66 yards on 21 carries, and Dugan had one of his finest efforts of the season.

The defense more than held its own again, led by star captains James Cassidy, Bo Bartholemew and Will Robinson, complimented by other key contributors Ben Spivey, Chris Hess, Marcus Williams.

And that is what makes this string of defeats likely to be so frustrating for the team. Week in, week out, the Wildcats display positives in certain situations, but a lapse or breakdown at critical moments becomes just enough for another loss.

Special teams, including the kicking game, have struggled at times this season, and inconsistent tackling continues to victimize the otherwise sturdy defense, which has sometimes been put in tough spots after turnovers.

Saturday, on the other side of the ball, Methodist coach Jim Sypult, a longtime Davidson assistant, was ecstatic as his team won its third straight game for the first time in the seven-year history of the program.

“You’ve got to understand, we started football seven years ago,” Sypult said. “I mean, being 4-2 at this point — that’s remarkable. Respect is what we’re all about.”

And that is exactly what supposedly lowly Methodist earned, stealing Davidson’s Homecoming thunder. “We’re real close to getting it done,” Moll said, practically describing the entire season. “There were just a couple of plays we needed to convert.”

Break good

to field

By KEN HALL
Staff Writer

The field hockey team had a successful Fall Break, completing a three-game road trip with two victories and one loss.

FIELD HOCKEY

They beat Virginia Commonwealth 2-1 on October 7. Junior Mary Dowd began the scoring by driving a penalty stroke past the goalie late in the first half.

In the second period, Nicole Ficeto put the Wildcats up 2-0 with her team-high fifth goal of the year off assists by Dowd and Holly Kledis. Virginia Commonwealth scored to close within one, but the Wildcats’ tenacious defense didn’t allow the hosts to tie the game.

The following day, Davidson shut out Richmond 1-0.

Davidson goalie Tamara Carhart blocked seven shots for her second shutout of the season. Meredith Rachinsky scored with three minutes one second left in the first period to give the Wildcats their fourth straight victory.

But this winning streak ended October 9 when Davidson fell to American 1-0.

Head Coach Betsy Pryor is excited about her team’s recent success, and she said her team is winning because “basically, we’ve stopped playing nice.” She also credited the defense’s aggressive play as a reason for the team’s turnaround.

The team was scheduled to return to the field Sunday afternoon against William & Mary, before hosting Louisville on Monday.

On Saturday, Davidson hosts Radford. The squad has just one more game after that before its season-ending invitational tournament November 3-5.