THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1995

Field hockey looking for some sparks

By JOHN ROE
Staff Writer

The Davidson field hockey team is still looking to tap into the winning combination this season.

FIELD HOCKEY

After losses to Ohio University last Saturday, Wake Forest last Sunday, and Appalachian State Thursday, it appears the Wildcats are missing something.

“We came out very flat,” coach Betsy Pryor said. “Ohio U. was very strong and quick, but we never pulled our game together. It seemed as if we gave up — and we quit playing.”

Perhaps the largest frustration of this team so far is its inability to score. The Wildcats have had many opportunities to score; in fact, Davidson had about twice as many shots as Appalachian State.

The Wildcats seem to be putting a lot of pressure on inside the circle, but they are missing the spark that can help them finish those chances.

Part of the problem may be that last year’s leading scorer, Erin Smith, has been hobbled by an ankle injury. The scoring frustration may also be a result of the team’s relative inexperience.

“We have lots of talent,” Pryor said, “but there is also much inexperience on the team as well. We are still trying to hit our stride, but we must stick with it. When we find that spark, things will start to click.”

Senior Holly Kledis breaks away from Scottish opponent.

of Lake Norman

@

Brandon Clarke

Get your 1996 Lake Norman calendar filled with stunning color photos from area amateur and professional photographers.

Whether you live at Lake Norman, play at Lake Norman, or just dream about Lake Norman, you've been looking for a Lake Norman calendar.

It makes a great gift. A limited number are available, so get yours now. Available at these locations:

—Trél. Hecht Realty, Inc. Hwy. 16, Denver

19300 Statesville Rd. Cornelius

lake norman MAGAZINE 147 North Harbor Dr. Ste. 102 Davidson Landing Davidson

Calendars will also be available at the Lake Norman Magazine booth at LakeFest ‘95 on Sept. 23 and 24, Jetton Park. Come see us!

Address

Or mail this order form to: Lake Norman Magazine, P.O. Box 819, Cornelius, N.C. 28031. Enclose a check or money order for $8.50 per calendar (includes tax, shipping, and handling) payable to Lake Norman Magazine.

Quantity

Amount Enclosed

Phone

Pryor’s squad carried that optimistic attitude into Sunday’s game against Longwood before entering a 10-day stretch where the only team they face is Duke on Saturday on the road.

Toss It

from page 10

— especially as a pitcher — might seem a little odd, considering he only threw eight innings this spring.

But in young players, major league teams take a good look at a player’s potential. With pitchers, teams look especially for big hurlers who can throw hard, which is where Ingerick fits in.

He stands about six-foot-six and can get his fastball up to 92 mph, while throwing near 90 mph consistently.

The Marlins first saw Ingerick at the Southern Conference tournament this spring, then a scout worked out both Ingerick and Jeff Andrews after a home game following the tournament. Ingerick didn’t hear from the Marlins again until they called to say they selected him.

“It was definitely the most exciting part of my baseball life,” Ingerick said. “At the same time, though, it’s one of the most stressful things. Somebody calls you up and asks to make a pretty significant life decision at the spur of the moment.”

Between now and next spring when he finishes his collegiate career, Ingerick said he’ll concentrate solely on pitching, whereas he’s filled in at other positions before. He said he hopes to build up his arm strength to the point where he could start games as opposed to being a one or two-inning pitcher.

“I need to work on getting more command on my pitches,” Ingerick said. “I need to work on a better breaking ball and more control on my change-up and then we’ll see what happens from there.”

Predator

from page 10

oaks and sycamores is one of the most rewarding experiences an outdoorsman can have.

That is why, when I head to the woods or the water this fall, I will carry my fishing pole along. Whether it is strapped onto my backpack, stuffed in my kayak, or simply thrown in the back of my truck, my fishing rod will always be ready for use.

Help Wanted: Calligraphy

Need approximately 175 envelopes addressed for Christmas cards.

Call 896-1661