LU xX

U BI

O Rol A

Che DMavidsonian

ALENDA LIBERTAS

VOLUME LXXXVII

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1995

NUMBER 5

Patterson Court begins recycling efforts

By Adam Hickey
Staff Writer

On Sunday, September 20, the Patterson Court Council unanimously approved a proposal that implements a structured recycling program in each eating house and fraternity.

The proposal was jointly submitted by Warren Buford, Vice President of the SGA, and Helen Robinson, Chair of the Recycling Committee, a division of Reach Out.

The idea for increased recycling arose out of work done last semester. The Campus Services and Facilities Committee of the SGA, in cooperation with the Recycling Committee, brought an earlier version of the proposal to the PCC, which approved the plan. It was submitted so near the end of the semester, however, that action has been delayed until now.

In sum, the proposal mandates that each fraternity and eating house make use of three recycling bins, provided by the SGA, to separate aluminum, plastic, and paper. Each Court house will be required to bring their sorted materials to the shed at least once a week for processing. Students have the option of volunteering additional time at the shed, which needs workers to sort materials for pickup.

This is not the end of recycling plans at Davidson. “Recycling has been shooting off in many different directions here, and it has never come together... I think now it will,” says Robinson.

She hopes a recycling forum, to be held before the end of this semester, will lead to an increased number of bins and improved organization. “We’d like to see each dorm have a place to recycle all types of materials,” she adds.

New 9-911 system flawed

By WILL BRADSHAW
Staff Writer

The Davidson College and town police have switched to the Charlotte-Mecklenburg 911 system from the separate system they had previously used. This change has caused confusion for both students and police dispatchers.

“It is going to take time for dispatchers in Charlotte to familiarize themselves with our procedures,” Chief of the Davidson College Police Rick Moore says. “They are not used to responding to a call for an escort, lockout, or jump start by sending an officer, and it will take time for them to realize that we send an officer for anything.”

What has commonly been happening is that a student will dial the new 9-911 number and get a Charlotte dispatcher. The dispatcher will then tell the student that his or her situation is not an emergency and that the police only respond to emergencies.

Moore stressed that if this happens, the person needs to ask to speak to a dispatch supervisor and explain the situation to him, which should alleviate the problem.

“All dispatch supervisors are aware that they [students] should see an officer,” Moore says. “I have talked to supervisors on several occasions, and I have yet to speak to one who wasn’t polite and trying to provide a good service.”

There have been no reported problems in the last week according to Moore, but if someone does run into difficulty for any reason, the incident should be reported to the Campus Police.

“There have been less problems than I expected as new as this is to dispatchers down there. All of a sudden they have many new things to remember, and they have shown a willingness to address problems and provide a good service,” Moore says.

THIS WEEK

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1

Davidson, NC 28036

Junior Mike Ingram reaches to assist Junior Jeremy “Air Patrol” Chason during the Davidson-UNCC rugby match Saturday. The Wildcats knocked and dragged the 49ers through a simple, penn hell before claiming a 25-21 victory.

RUGBY ROCKS

Rob Kosicki

Off-campus students differ over landlord Case

By JOANNA JOHNSON & MATTHEW ERICH
Assistant News Editor & News Editor

Marshall Case, a Davidson graduate, is a realtor who owns several properties in the Davidson area. While some of his current tenants have found him to be an adequate landlord, several of Case’s former tenants complain that while he neglects many of his responsibilities as a landlord, he also places unfair restrictions on his tenants.

Past residents complain that when he showed them houses initially, Case said he would repair damages. Instead, many say, he never made the improvements he promised. As one past resident said, “[He says] he’s going to make this place a wonderful heaven, but he does nothing.”

According to former tenants, Case has been equally reluctant to attend to problems such as ants and electrical failures. Past residents describe his response to these situations as “very slow,” with some complaining that it took an unreasonable amount of time for him even to return their phone calls.

When renters were able to reach Case, they say he often excused himself as being too busy to remedy the situation. Similarly, several past residents recall Case as having promised to mow their lawns for a small fee, yet let the grass grow to unreasonable heights.

See Lease on page 5

Patterson pub

PCC argues for 2 a.m. alcohol cut-off at weekday parties.

NEWS : 2

Watch your head

Dom explores the essence of learning.

OPINIONS 8

First Night Down

The pictures tell the story.

ARTS & LIVING 10

Soccer

Women win tight victory over Charleston Southern.

SPORTS 15