THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, APRIL 24, 1995 13

Voices that need to be heard
A selection of up-and-coming female musicians
By JOHN COPEHAVER
Arts and Living Editor

In the past couple of years, female musicians have brought a unique and important voice to modern music. Fortunately, I’ve
had a chance to listen to a few of these artists in depth and discover the diversity and the importance
of their talent in today’s world of music.

The first — and my personal favorite — is Tori Amos. When I first heard her innovative piano mixed with
her passionate, effortless voice, I was hooked. She bases the majority of her songs on the piano and uses backup
instruments such as violins and drums to add flavor to her already creative piano style. She twists certain lyrics into
wavering, breathless sounds, adding an extremely sensual quality to her songs. Most of her music deals with different problems in
women’s relationships with men, parents, other women, and God. Her albums include Little Earthquakes, 1991 (my favorite), and Under the
Pink, 1994.

Sarah McLachlan, a Canadian artist, has just recently become popular with United States audiences. Her flawless voice mixed with the
dark airiness of her music is subtly moving and intelligently performed. She experiments with different song arrangements and different instruments
(although most of her music is guitar-based). All of her lyrics are smoothly written — words flow into words. Her
themes run from problems with love to searching for spirituality, and all her topics are cleverly addressed and imaginatively communicated.
Her albums include Touch, 1989 (my favorite, but not the most popular), Solace, 1991, and Fumbling Towards Ecstasy, 1993.

Liz Phair’s work falls under the category of guitar pop. She uses a lot of acoustic guitar and drums in
her short, but well-written songs. In most of her music, Liz creates a catchy tune then utilizes plenty of repetition
to make the song grow on her listener. Her style is more traditional than the previous two artists, but equally
original. She writes most of her songs about male-female relationships that have gone wrong. Often she uses harsh and bawdy
lyrics to express her displeasure with the state of 90s relationships. Her albums include Exile in Guyville, 1993, and Whip-Smart,
1994.

Not as well known as the first three, Toni Childs still has an impressive body of work that deserves to
be noticed. Her music borrows some stylistic devices from the music of Peter Gabriel, but by no means copies Gabriel’s
work. She develops songs with layers of different instruments, including many foreign and ethnic instruments. Another interesting element to Childs
is that she cleverly forms an album with a whole, unifying concept in mind. Each of her albums tackles a
different broad theme, and then breaks down the parts of that theme song by song. She is able to explore
an issue from different perspectives without compromising the musical cohesiveness of an album. Her list of albums includes: Union, 1988,
House of Hope, 1991, and The Woman’s Boat, 1994 (by far her most mature work).

First from page 10

euphemized in the phrase “Chicks before dicks!” that was entered into the dialogue whenever a character mentions a negative experience
with men. Another instance of this negativity was showcased in another line, “That’s how they rape you over and over!”
This seemed a bit strong to generalize them as raping you over and over. It is understandable that a woman
will feel continually victimized after being raped, but it is just as understandable to realize that not all men are
rapists and to generalize them as such undermines a lot of the strides made in communication between men and women.
On the other hand, it is also important to realize that women often do feel unfairly victimized and do lash
out without realizing the political correctness of their statements. Regardless of whether this is right or wrong, it does seem
fair to say that Grimmell was showing that these feelings exist and that they do need an outlet.

A round of applause is due to Grimmell, Director Scott Lenhart, and the entire cast of The First Time. As
a first effort from a student playwright, this play was phenomenal. Not only did it bring to light feelings about
sex thatHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Young women everywhere deal

HICKORY—HAM HONEY GLAZED

The inexpensive way to make lunch a special occasion.

SPIRAL SLICED

At Hickory Hams, we serve sandwiches. We cure our meats with pure natural honey then gently smoke them over real
hickory hardwoods. And that's what makes them so ‘like nothing you ever tasted’ good.

Coupon good for up to 2 sandwiches

$2.99 $3.99 $3.99

Kiss O' Honey Smokehouse Hickory Hoagie Executive Sandwich Sandwich Sandwich Lunch Boxes

Potato or Pasta Salad, Smoked Turkey Breast & Swiss Cheese, Smoked Turkey Sandwich, Chips & Pickle Sandwich, Chips & Pickle
Sandwich, Chips & Pickle

Packaged with utensils at our in-store Cafe-Deli. Not good with other offers.

HICKORY HAMS

Languages required. With, but it did so realistically. I never felt as if the dialogue was forced, and I never
doubted that each character meant what she was saying. Because The First Time was written by a student, it was
really in tune with what is going on with women right now. It brought up a lot of issues that
both men and women deal with on a day-to-day basis, because sex is a part of everyone’s lives.

Do YOU WANT TO BE A PHOTOJOURNALIST? IF SO, CALL ROS AT -2148. VERY LITTLE EXPERIENCE REQUIRED.

INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT

Make up to $25-$45 per hour teaching basic conversational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S. Korea. Many employers provide room
& board + other benefits. No teaching background or Asian languages required. For more information call: (206) 632-1146 Ext. J53631
International Employment Group

ON THE SCENE

Davidson College Symphony Orchestra Concert. Conducted by composer in residence Richard Prior, the concert will include Mozart’s Overture to the
Magic Flute, Grieg’s Piano Concerto in A Minor, and Haydn’s Farewell Symphony. 8-10 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Coffee House. 8:30-11 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Philip Levine, celebrated American poet, winner of the 1995 Pulitzer Prize for Poetry and the 1991 National Book Award for
Poetry, presents the Vereen Bell Award for Creative Writing and reads from his own work. 7:30-9 p.m. in the 900
Room.

W. Robert Connor, Director of the National Humanities Center and professor of classics at Duke University, speaks on “To Be
an Athenian: Personal and Civic Identity in Classical Athens.” 8-10 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Twenty-one-year-old night. 10:30 p.m.-midnight in the 900 Room.

Spring Convocation. 10:30-12 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

The American Dream and Icarus’ Mother. Edward Albee’s and Sam Shepard’s one-act plays will be performed in the Studio Theatre
from 7:30-9:30 p.m.

Deno Trakas, a visiting writer, will read fiction at 7:30 p.m. in the Carolina Inn.

Gold Finger & Dirty Harry Double Feature. 8-12 a.m. 900 Room.

Thursday

Tom Foley, Former Speaker of the House, comes to speak on his successful 30-year career in the House of Representatives,
7:30-9 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

The American Dream and Icarus’ Mother. 7:30-9:30 p.m. in the Studio Theatre.

Earth Day Celebration. Festivities include a band, lawn games, and informative displays. 4-8 p.m. at Vail Commons patio.

Dr. John Graham, Professor at Wake Forest, speaks on “Neurobiology of Cocaine Addiction & Abuse.” 4:30 p.m. in Dana Rm.
204.

Friday

The Taming of the Shrew. Don’t miss Shakespeare’s hilarious and socially relevant production performed by Dr. Cynthia Lewis’ “Performing Shakespeare”
course. 7:30-9:30 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

Senior Piano Recital. Eric Hall performs in Hodson Hall at 8-9 p.m.

Saturday

The Taming of the Shrew. 7:30-9:30 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

The Taming of the Shrew. 2-4 p.m. at Pian del Pino Outdoor Theatre, the home of Margaret and Price Zimmerman.
Call 896-6038 for ticket information.

Opera Scenes. Students and music faculty present six scenes from operas and operettas, including three by Gilbert and Sullivan, and
others from Mozart’s Magic Flute, Delibes’ Lakme, and Humperdinck’s Hansel and Gretel. 8-9:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

Princess Bride. 8-10 p.m. in 900 Room.

All Week

Collection of Student Artwork. In the William H. Van Every, Jr. Gallery. The show opens on Monday from 4-6 p.m.
The gallery is open 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Monday through Friday and 2-5 p.m. on weekends.

Senior Exhibitions. Allison Greenlee’s work will be on display in the Edward M. Smith Gallery. 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Monday through
Friday and 2-5 p.m. on weekends.
