THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1995

“The opinions being expressed are not necessarily the views of...” We have all heard this disclaimer used by radio and television stations alike. The editors of The Davidsonian have printed a similar one concerning the Opinions section. I often wonder if this would be a good opening to my articles.

We live in a time when being black forfeits your right to individuality. A black person committing a crime is just that, a black criminal. He is not seen as Jeffrey Dahmer or David Koresh, the sick individual who killed many people. Clarence Thomas is the black Supreme Court justice. O.J. Simpson is the black, ex-football player accused of murder. J.C. Watts is the black Republican. Ike Bailey is the black editorial writer. Simply put, if you are black, you are black. If you are white, you are far more individualized.

Individuation: “The act or process of individuating, especially the process by which social individuals become differentiated from one another; the distinction or determination of the individual within the general or universal.” Being placed in the public eye is a peculiar spot for most African-Americans. The moment something is said or done, you are seen as a black person first and almost never as an individual.

My greatest difficulty lies in trying to be an outspoken writer and not to be seen as a spokesperson. I am forced to be African and American. I am forced to be Ike Bailey the black man and not Ike Bailey the individual. When I get responses to my articles they seem to be more focused on the African-American race and less on my individual position. People have told me to shut up about all that “racial stuff” that no one wants to hear, and I have been told to continue because it makes African-American life here easier. Does Bill Gullan or Ken May have the same problem? Are they seen as the white editorial writers? Or are they seen as the boisterous editorial writers?

This does not mean I want to forfeit my blackness in order to become an individual. I should not have to make such a choice. I want to be seen as an African-American student who writes, and not as the African-American representative. Yet I know that this is not possible. I realize my need for individuality, yet I know I am a part of the “Undifferentiated Blob” (a term used by Cornel West). My friends urge me not to turn white, and I am told not to be too black. What can anyone do?

David Santschi Building Community

William Raspberry’s speech was a refreshing, non-partisan look at America’s problems. Instead of demonizing either political party, Raspberry spoke about the politics of victimization and how special benefits accorded to various protected groups divide society. He commented on how public officials, instead of focusing their attention on problems, portray their opponents as enemies. Raspberry identified the basic problem facing public life: how people villainize those who disagree with them to avoid meaningful dialogue. His diagnosis was on the mark but prescriptions for building community were lacking.

How does one build a livable neighborhood? This is a difficult question, one Raspberry avoided answering directly. Certainly, there is not a precise formula or recipe for building community. But by taking certain actions, a community can bring itself together:

- Acknowledge that government must not play an artificial, central role; institutions do not make a close community.
- Rather than stress differences among groups, show how these differences are unimportant when building community.
- Use the power of elected office to articulate values that have been lost in ideological struggles: trust, respect, self-control, responsibility. Policies should uphold these values.
- Promote a climate where small, locally owned businesses can thrive. This means reducing taxes or regulations when possible. Local businesses are the backbone of any healthy community, for these merchants know their customers.
- Design communities to maximize interaction among residents. An article in the Sunday Observer addressed this urban planning in considerable detail.
- Have corporations provide seed money for community initiatives, such as programs to bring high school students from around a city to discuss issues they encounter in their schools. A high school might agree to start an exchange program with a school from another part of a community.
- Urge suburban churches who have abandoned their outreach roles to put their resources in poorer areas of the community. A church from one area can “adopt” a church from another area. This instantly brings two networks together.

These solutions are ideas that I have personally seen address community needs and bring people together. Many of these solutions are institutional. By using effective public policy and their “bully pulpit” to call for change and praise those who build community, leaders can promote conditions where community matters to people. Clean, safe streets, drug-free neighborhoods, economic development, and parks are all the results of institutional change. But for all its virtues, mere institutional competence does not build community.

What is most important in building community is a change in attitude. Families and local groups determine their own strength; government determines only the conditions in which these groups exist. Community arises not from leaders and programs but from the selfless actions of ordinary people acting locally. This is why building community is so difficult—this local initiative cannot be generated at will. Solutions proposed by the business community and government are only successful when people want to build community, when there is citizen leadership along with attempts to change conditions.

As Carl Holman, former president of the National Urban Coalition, said, “City services and strategies can prevent decay only in neighborhoods that have confidence in their own future.” Real community is possible only when a sense of place matters enough to residents that they take action on their own.in such a situation? I want to be black first, but not black only. If seeing my struggle for identity helps you see the bigger picture, then this process is worthwhile. If seeing me as the African-American editorial writer allows you to see our struggle more clearly, then I can accept this. But you must always remember, to know me is to know an African-American; to know me is not to know an entire race. W.E.B. Du Bois’ notion of double-consciousness says it quite clearly: “The Negro is a sort of seventh son, born with a veil, and gifted with second-sight in this American world, a world which yields him no true self-consciousness, but only lets him see himself through the revelation of the other world. It is a peculiar sensation, this double-consciousness, this sense of always looking at one’s self through the eyes of others, of measuring one’s soul by the tape of a world that looks on in amused contempt and pity.” 

— Matthew Eirich

Rappaz kan bring da werld tagetha

Just like any other musical genre, some rappers produce garbage and others produce worthwhile music. It’s equivalent to the difference between Milli Vanilli (What did that name ever mean, anyway?) and Boyz II Men. But look at the spelling of that: Boyz II Men. What gives? Why do some rappers, like Boyz II Men, misspell their names and song titles? What does it prove? Are they in need of copy editors? Do they simply need a seventh-grade typing course? From Eazy-E’s album It’s On (Dr. Dre) 187um Killa come the following song titles: “Exxtra Special Thankz,” “Any Last Werdz,” “Boyz N Tha Hood (G-Mix),” and “Down 2 Tha Last Roach.” Perhaps Eazy was concerned that the letter “z” simply receives too little use. Perhaps Eazy thought he was being more creative than all the other rappers by spelling “the” with an “a.” Perhaps Eazy finds it difficult to distinguish between letters and numbers. 

Finally, my tour of rap’s greatest grammarians concludes with Onyx. Not only does Onyx follow the same principles of spelling as Eazy-E, sometimes they can’t even find the space bar on the keyboard. Take the title track “BACDAFU*UP,” or the second song, “BICHASNIGUZ.” Or other spellings to rival Dan Quayle: “ATAK OF DA BAL-HEDZ.” Really it’s very original, especially the no-spaces part, which reminds me of the last chapter from Joyce’s Ulysses. Certainly that’s what Onyx meant also. 

On second thought, I find myself wondering if I’m simply being too bitter. Maybe rappers have a greater purpose for their spelling mistakes. Or maybe they are just human. Everyone, rappers and non-rappers alike, has the ability to misspell. When we begin to search for those things we share in common rather than dwell on things like grammar and spelling which are divisive, only then will we experience harmony and unity. Eazy, Onyx and their fellow rappers are not bad spellers — they are visionaries. They are trying to bring about understanding. Or maybe, just maybe, rappaz kant spel.

— Charles Barrus

No woman, no cry

Over the past couple of years I have noticed a very disturbing trend in my life; I pretty much never hook up. At first, I thought it might have something to do with me, but after talking with some of my friends I realized they were having similar troubles. So, for the good of us all, I set about to find out just what in the world is going on. I started at the beginning of the hook-up process, Court parties. This has been the stalking ground of guys like myself in search of young, drunken co-eds to bring back to “the cave.” The parties, though, haven’t changed a bit. They’re as lame as usual, but not really any worse. And, believe it or not, enticing women back to my room hasn’t been my problem. The difficulties occur once we get there. I mean, I can bring girls home, but I can’t close the deal. I can hook the fish, but I can’t get her in the boat. I can get my ball on the green, but I can’t sink my putt. I can... oh, you get the picture. 

So the trouble comes in the room. What changes there? That’s easy, it’s the music. In the good ole’ days we’d get back to my place, sit on the couch, and I'd hit play on my already programmed CD changer. Here’s a sample. We'd start off with something like “we’ve got tonight, who needs tomorrow, we’ll make it last, why don’t you stay...” (who can argue with the wisdom of Bob Seger?). Then my stereo would break into a little “Tonight’s the Night.” It worked for Rod Stewart, and it worked for me. Follow that up with some Joe Cocker, preferably “Love Lifts Us Up Where We Belong” (my loft), and it’s a done deal. No more. Nowadays when I get a girl back, all they want to listen to are bands like Pearl Jam, Nirvana, or anything with “rage, anger, and emotion.” Since my CD collection hasn’t grown since the tenth grade, I don’t have any of that stuff. It’s a fact. I’ve missed the boat on 90s music so much that I couldn’t catch up if I were Mark Spitz. Being the desperate guy that I am, however, I try to compensate. Bad idea. If it’s rage and anger they want, it’s rage and anger they will get. My usual selection is Michael Jackson’s "Beat It." He seems pretty angry at something, wouldn’t you agree? Unfortunately, I have never gotten more than 15 seconds into the song before my companion informs me that I am the biggest loser north of the South Pole. Then she leaves. Pat Benatar was right all along. Love is a battlefield. I guess that makes me France. Oh well, I’m getting used to it. All you guys who are still spelling “fish” with an “f” had better get used to it too.