THE DAVIDPHONIAN OPINIONS TUESDAY, MAY 9, 1995 5

Editor-in-Chief
INTHA CHAIR

The Davidphonian Executive Editor
JUAN

Managing Editor
HANDZIN MUPH

News Editor
ANASTASIA BOGINSKAYA

Arts Editor
CHE GUEVARA

Lux our Alenda, or we'll Ubi. your Orta. Libertas!!!

Sports Editor
PAUL DANIEL THEISS

Photography Editor
PAYRE O. SCISSORS

Copy Editor
BILLY BOB

They’re All Phony

We were lucky, if you can call it luck. A couple of us got jobs for next year. A couple
of us are going abroad. A few of us have another year at Davidson. A few wish we still did.
One of us feels like we have wasted a couple of years in rural North Carolina. Three of us have.
So why call ourselves lucky? Well, we didn’t have to do our laundry for a few years, and the freshman
SAT has gone up since we got in. If we’d been a little younger, we might be reading Waller novels
on top of a Maytag right now.

When we were freshmen—man, there were some throw downs that year. Things were different then, believe it. We got away
with murder. As graduation approaches, you might hear it said that the class of '95 had a few problems other
classes haven’t had. We’ve dropped, dropped out, dropped the ball, screwed around, broken stuff, peed everywhere, disrespected our elders, crapped
on ourselves, almost woken up dead a few times. It’s been great. Some of us even have another year of
all this.

So here we are, editorializing, reminiscing, wondering who we saw today who we will never ever see again. We are
English majors, most of us. We are often full of lies and slander. Instead of trying to impart one last
opinion on you, we’ve decided to give Davidson a new alma mater. Imagine us gathered around a big stone building.
All is quiet. It is dark, and we are holding candles in a circle, hand in hand. Suddenly, a song
rises into the air. A student walking home from the library hears a melody wafting across the lawn, and turns
to walk a little closer to us. One of us moons her, giggling. Then we begin:

O Davidson! We're tired of this place.
You still go here—you make up the rest.

p.s.—Thanks for bitching all the time and never saying anything good about the paper. You’ve been helpful.

The Davidphonian is published once on a Monday or Tuesday at the end of the spring term by people whose
identities you shall never know. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidphonian, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704)
892-2579 to talk to our boss. Our offices are located in the attic of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries reflect the views of the honor council. You would never want a
subscription, and actually we're even publishing this rag since last year the editors were in exile. The trustees have nothing
to do with this. The copyright is held by Bob Stephenson.

THE DAVIDPHONIAN

LETTERS

The horrors of verbosity

To the editors,

I would like to write to the editors of The Davidsonian to express my overwhelming concern over the horrendous problem
of excessive...Wordiness in the work of today’s Davidsonian writers of Opinions articles. Every time I begin to pick up my
copy of “The South’s Foremost College Weekly” I start to dread the inevitable overflow of superfluous words, clauses, phrases, etc.,
that serve only to add to my reading displeasure and to cause an annoying and irritating degree of waste of
my most valuable time. If Davidsonian writers who submit their articles of opinion to the paper would simply attempt to
trim down their prose just a little bit, all of the students such as myself who are suffering under a
pressure that is imposed by our strenuous academic schedules would certainly be a great deal more grateful and thankful. If
everyone would try to think a little bit about all of those unnecessary, excessive, needless, expendable, uncalled for, non-essential, and
unwarranted words, then all of the articles in The Davidsonian Opinions section would be a whole lot less long and
much easier for people to read.

Sincerely,
Gustave Flaubert ‘95

---

More Evolution, please

To the editors,

When I picked up the last edition of The Davidsonian I was distressed at the lack of another Evolution article.
I, along with the dozens of other aspiring assistant librarians on campus, found the ongoing Evolution debate both intriguing and
exhilarating. My two friends and I would spend hours each week arguing the Evolution question over hot cocoa and animal
crackers while waiting for the Phi Gamm Tram. We never did make it to any parties, though, and I’m beginning
to suspect that “The Tram” doesn’t depart from in front of E.H. Little Library like those frat guys told us.
However, that is beside the point. The Davidsonian has robbed us of an intellectual fiesta and a wonderfully rewarding bonding
experience. Those of you who frequent the Computer Center may already know me, and you know that my social skills
are a little underdeveloped. The Evolution articles gave me the opportunity to branch out and discuss an issue of vital
importance to today’s society with my intellectual comrades. Now that the articles are over I am sad to say that
my life will return to my old pastimes of Dungeon & Dragons and putting bugs in the computer system. After
I tasted the excitement of the Evolution debate, what used to thrill me so much carries so little appeal. When
I graduate two years early and open my own software outlet and library supplies depot, you cruel editors of The
Davidsonian will pay for your insensitivity.

Sincerely,
Lewis Scholenick, ‘98

---

Special Announcement: Seniors publish bestselling autobiographies

Lara Onkey
Beautiful Dreamer: My Life as a Melrose Place Lookalike

Eric Rosenbach
The Path to the Presidency: Dean Rusk, Jack Perry, and Me

Andy Antonelli
Body, Rest, and Motion: Momentum of My Mind

Sarah Orsbon
Why God Did What She Did or First You Must Take Back the Evening

Scott Lenhart
Naked on Stage: My Experiences as a Theater Bitch

Jen Williams
Fit to be Dyed: My Life as a Carpetbagger

Braulio Lopez
Party Success Secrets: The Power of the Fist

Cat Grimmell
Beer, Oysters, and Menstruation: My Other First Times

Sarah Patterson and Creigh Wheeler
How To Get Your M.R.S.
