12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

MONDAY, APRIL 24, 1994

Poet Dabney Stuart
presents Charles
Lloyd Nonfiction
Writing Awards

By Laura LEIBFREID
Staff writer

The Charles Lloyd Nonfiction Writing Awards were presented on Wednesday, April 12 to a select gathering of new writers and avid poetry lovers in the 900 Room. Dabney Stuart, a 1960 Davidson graduate and renowned poet, presided as both judge and entertainer for the event. Following Professor Holland’s humorous introduction, Stuart explained his criteria for choosing the winners. In his words, it was “an apples and oranges, and pears kind of thing.” Essays that were both eloquently argued and convincingly original were selected. All sophomores, juniors, and seniors were eligible to compete.

After his explanation, Stuart announced the award recipients. Will Boye, Sarah Patterson, and Jay Stillwell all received Honorable Mentions for their essays. George Weld collected Second Prize for his piece on “Joseph Conrad, The Vagaries of Erotic Experience.” And Todd Cabel won First Prize for his more traditional viewing of Conrad, entitled, “Penetrating the Impenetrable Darkness: Joseph Conrad, the Belgian Congo, and Heart of Darkness.” Following the distribution of awards, Stuart delivered a reading of his own works, ranging from children’s verse to sophisticated prose. A self-described “metaphorical literalist,” Stuart chooses to elaborate on visual images that are true to life. “I work the imagination through what is given, through what I see,” he explains.

For example, the first poem he read, “Turntables,” utilizes a vinyl record as its controlling image. In doing so, Stuart broadens his topic from mere discs of sound to the ever-circular motion of our lives. “The human music, the awful human music,” he ends.

On poetry, Stuart comments, “Poets are desperate creatures sometimes.” He once wrote an entire series of vegetable poems, a “gapfiller,” so to speak, as well as a book of children’s poems on unusual animals. Of these curious poems, he read “The Cabbage in History” and “The Electric Eel,” a personal favorite.

All in all, the event was thoroughly enjoyable. Stuart’s soft tones and rich imagery lured the audience into a web of elaborately woven word patterns.

Stuart was truly an inspiration to the aspiring crowd of budding Davidson authors hoping to bloom into the prosperous writers of tomorrow.

SGA Announcement

Sign-ups for student representatives on faculty committees will be open to all students Monday through Thursday in the Union Pit. Anyone interested is encouraged to apply.

CELEBRATE GOOD TIMES, COME ON!

Brandon Clarke

Some of her friends present International student Rachel Balsan with a cake during the International Ball Saturday night in the 900 Room.

THE ROAD TO A SECOND WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP WILL BE LONG, GRUELING AND PARTIALLY PAVED WITH FINNS.

U.S. National Team vs. Finland: On The Road To Sweden

AUDITIONS

TOPCATS DANCE TEAM

Wed. April 26 8:00 pm Baker Sports Complex

If you enjoy athletic events, travel and dancing you will enjoy TOPCATS!!

For more info call: Jeanette x2378, Lara x6557 or x6632, or Mary x6280

=» MasterCard yw print Budweiser