OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1995

Naresh Nagella
The Forgotten Debt

Okay, so finally both parties, after proclaiming they would try hard to be bipartisan, have come out with two different
budget plans. Both call for elimination or consolidation of government programs, tax decreases, and virtually no debt reduction whatsoever. It
actually is hard to tell the plans apart from one another except that the Republicans want more cuts and broader
tax breaks than President Clinton.

The problem here is that the debt will not be reduced. Clinton’s first budget proposal was excellent in reducing the
debt by $600 billion. He was the first president since Harry Truman to actually have two consecutive years of debt
reduction. The plan came due to tax increases mostly on the upper class and from an effective gas tax, which
contrary to Republican beliefs, did not drive fuel prices through the roof. Since that budget package, the economy has been
in high gear, growing so fast that the Fed, uncharacteristically, raised interest rates to battle a possible increase in inflation.
Despite politics' economic no-nos (tax increase, interest rate rise), the economy generated five million new jobs and has led the
American economy to be the strongest in the world — WHILE REDUCING DEBT.

Now, enter the NEWt right, and their budget plan calling for widespread tax breaks along with massive government cuts. The
cuts are great, but do we need a tax break right now? No. There is no reason to increase the
real income of the American public right now. Consumer activity is nowhere near recession levels, and we are still saving
quite a bit of money. In their interest to balance the budget, the Republicans want to cut back welfare and
other entitlements, which represent some 10% of the federal budget while just the interest on the four trillion dollar debt
accounts for 16% of the federal budget. The solution is simple but not politically attractive: continue with the government cuts
and do not offer any tax breaks. In Clinton’s inaugural address, given during the height of his popularity, he said
that we would have to go through some “tough times” to ensure “better times.”

Eric Sapp
Evolution: the elaborate lie

I bet that got your attention. You’re probably asking yourself what this wacko is up to. Well, I plan to
prove, using scientific evidence found by the evolutionists themselves, and by several basic principles of science and math, that the
theory of evolution is a scientifically unacceptable theory which is taught simply because no better one can be found. Evolution
has become a religion requiring pure faith for its existence. Let us begin by looking at several fundamental flaws in
the theory.

The second law of thermodynamics states that all things left to themselves tend to go from a complex state toward
entropy. The theory of evolution requires the complete opposite — the build-up of a more complex form from a simpler
one. The Law of Biogenesis states that all life comes from life. However, the theory of evolution requires that life
be spontaneously generated. There is absolutely no scientific evidence stating that this is possible. In fact, all evidence points to
the opposite as shown by the Law of Biogenesis.

As a famous evolutionist said, “By this theory [evolution] innumerable transitional forms must have existed, why do we not find
them imbedded in countless numbers in the crust of the earth?” Yeah, good quote, Eric, but who said it? That
quote is from Charles Darwin’s The Origin of Species. It points out the basic flaw of the theory. There is
no evidence. I am not saying that things do not adapt slightly to their environment over time. There is evidence
of that. But there is no evidence connecting different kinds of animals to each other. If the theory is true,
there would be.

According to evolution, we evolved from a single cell. It can be argued that it was too long ago to
find evidence of development in those stages, but scientists have large fossil records of dinosaurs with no link to mammals
from them. There are no fossils of the development of the bird. According to Darwin’s theory, there should be millions
of reptiles who had little growths on their back, then larger and larger growths until they became more like wings.
Also, during this period of time, the organism should have switched from cold-blooded to warm-blooded. This process should have taken
millions of years with billions of examples. There is not one. There is not one link between reptiles and mammals.
There is not one link between dogs and cats or between humans and apes.

Now I’ve come to the sensitive issue. We were all taught in school that there are missing links. There are
none. Neanderthal man still exists and is simply a slightly different form of human (like black and white, or Hispanic
and Oriental). I cannot get into the specifics of every example (such as Piltdown man which was taught for forty
years to be the missing link until it was exposed as an elaborate hoax) because it would take too long.
Suffice it to say there is no undisputed evidence by evolutionists themselves proving the missing link.

However, there has been evidence found of man from the Pleistocene through the Jurassic and Cambrian eras, which has been
thrown out by scientists as false. This is because according to the theory of evolution man couldn't have existed billions
of years ago (that’s when the missing links were), but they throw out all this evidence of human existence and
keep looking for the “missing link” which they cannot find.

Since Darwinian evolution is so full of holes, 80% of evolutionists now believe a form of evolu-He was talking about
handling tax increases to be able to reduce the debt and thus allowing tax breaks at a much later time.
Unfortunately, the president has fallen victim to his campaign promise of a middle-class tax cut, which he must follow through
on or risk losing in ‘96. This is a sad lesson of how the election process can actually end up
hurting what is good for the country, for Clinton had to make that promise in order to win the presidency.
The overall effect of a president who has lost his ideals and a Republican Congress that salivates over cutting taxes,
and government is the forgotten cause for debt reduction. Both budget plans operate on a deficit and have set aside
paltry amounts of spending to go against actual debt reduction. Of course, social security (48% of the federal budget), the
benefit of the generation running Congress currently, will be kept fully intact. I don’t know what’s going to happen when
“Generation X” takes over running the government. We will face a massive debt that will probably constrict the social security
and Medicare benefits we want to receive. We will be stuck with the hard part, while our parents' generation will
get to live out the “cradle to grave” protection the American government wishes to offer its citizens. If only the
current government would think about the well-being of their sons and daughters other than their political success, then maybe, just
maybe, we would not have to be stuck paying off one massive, 20-year-old IOU.

Holt Vaughan

Major in what you want. Maybe it’s just me but every time I go home for break people ask me
the same question either because they are extremely boring and have no other small talk options or because they simply
are ignorant. “Hi Holt, how’s school?” “Fine.” “Great. What are you majoring in?” “Well, actually, I’m majoring in writing.” I
don’t know why, but I always preface my answer with the word “actually” because I know my answer will provoke
snickers. The reaction is always the same. They giggle a bit, and then they see that I am not giggling,
and they clear their throat and become serious. “Well, what are you going to do with that? Write a book?
Become a teacher?” Then I lose my patience because I feel like they peg me as an “English person” for
the rest of my life. So I tell them my canned liberal arts education speech. “No, I could be essentially
whatever I want. It’s a liberal arts school — meaning all the majors more or less have the same weight.
I know several doctors that were English majors. Medical schools are looking for that kind of diversity these days.” (I
do know some English majors that went to medical school, but the rest I kind of made up). People look
at me when I tell them this, but they hardly ever listen. The fact is, at most other schools, the
major is so specific that they start working towards it from the first day of their freshman year. They start
worrying about their social security just a year after they started seeing rated “R” movies. Heck, the first day of
school at Davidson, I had no idea what I wanted to major in. I’ve gone from political science to philosophy
to English to finally the Center of Interdisciplinary Studies. Like most students, I wasn’t sure what I wanted to do.
Luckily, through the core requirements, I was able to test the waters of all the different areas before I made
my final decision.

As an “experienced” senior, people ask my advice on what to major in. What I like to say is major
in whatever you want to major in. Major in something that you will never have the opportunity to study again.
That’s why you are in college — to learn about areas that you never could have before. If you major
in the subject that you truly enjoy and want to explore, not only will you do better in that subject,
you will have no regrets. I believe that the undergraduate degree should be looked upon as “play time in the
world of academia.” Dare to dance through some accounting. Play a little in medical ethics. Do cartwheels in anthropology. Adventure
through some literature. Just play. Take advantage of the undergraduate world while you can. Many times I think we are
so consumed with our futures that we forget how valuable our present undergraduate experience is. You want to specialize? Fine.
You should, and we all need to in order to pursue our goals. But if you can, save the specialization
for graduate school and enjoy the tremendous opportunity you have as an undergraduate.

This states that there is no record of the missing links because there were major mutations in organisms which caused
the advantageous changes found in evolution. This theory is even more faulty and is statistically impossible. To date, there has
been no evidence of a helpful mutation. However, evolution requires that thousands of these impossible mutations occurred at the same
time in several organisms and without any destructive mutations. That is the only way they could have reproduced. Statistically, this
is impossible. I have been convinced that evolution is a scientifically unsound theory requiring more faith in the unknown than
any religion could. Evolution has replaced Christianity as the national religion.

I SURVIVED THE DROUGHT, WILDFIRES, MUDSLIDES, MURDERVIES, RIOTS, AND EARTHQUAKES — BUT I’LL BE DANGED IF I'M HANGING AROUND FOR
THE RIVERS TURNING TO BLOOD!

Have an opinion? Write it down and have it published. Call Jeff. -2148.
