SPORTS 14 MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 1995

Men’s hoops survives scare vs. VMI, moves to 9-6 record

By Matt Pitzer

When men’s basketball coach Bob McKillop looks over this season so far, he looks past the mediocre 9-6 record, past frustrating losses to Furman last Monday and to UNCC on Jan. 12. He looks past a Christmas-tournament defeat at Boise State, and, instead, he looks to last season.

Last year, the Wildcats started the season at 9-5, including wins over bad N.C. State and Clemson teams that got everybody excited, before faltering at home to Appalachian State and to The Citadel on the road at about this time. Now, after a pretty tough out-of-conference schedule, Davidson finds itself in the same position after its most recent losses. The road back to the top of the conference and, hopefully, a postseason bid started Saturday with an 83-75 win over VMI.

Once again, a comparison to last year pops up. After the loss to The Citadel, the Wildcats won 13 out of 14 games to advance into the Southern Conference final, with the first win also coming against the Keydets. And so, the question now becomes: Can this year’s squad do the same thing?

“I think our players remember what it took to get there last season,” McKillop said. “I think they learned what it takes, how to overcome adversity and respond positively.”

Five of the Wildcats’ six losses this season have come to teams ranked in the top-50 in various power rankings in the country: Syracuse, Seton Hall, Wake Forest, Boise State and UNCC.

“We expected to be better than 8-6,” McKillop said, “but we’re not better than 8-6. ... We beat one top-50 team last year (UNCC), and we’ve beaten one this year (also UNCC). We stayed close against those other teams, but we didn’t win. I think we’re pretty much on a parallel track to where we were last year.”

In a mostly inconsistent season, the one constant has been shooting problems. Low shooting percentages have hounded the Wildcats all season, including a 32.8% performance against Syracuse way back on Dec. 3, 41.2% in the first UNCC game, 41.4% against Seton Hall, 35.5% in the second UNCC game and just 35.4% Saturday against VMI. Overall for the season, the team is shooting at about 45%, but when Davidson hits at higher than that mark, it is 6-0, compared to just 3-6 when below that line.

The main problem there, according to McKillop, is an ongoing attempt to find that delicate balance between being an up-tempo, fast-break team and pulling the ball out to set up the half-court offense when those breakaway opportunities aren’t there. Compounding the problem is the lack of a consistent go-to-player, a role filled by Janko Narat last season.

“We really want to encourage aggressiveness,” McKillop said. “We understand the philosophy, but we’re not executing. (When the fast-break isn’t open), they’re trying to hit a home run each time instead of just trying to make contact. What happens is that we’re playing offense from the heels.”

Junior forward Brandon Williams was expected to jump right into the void that Narat left, and he

See Men’s continued on page 15

Photo by Rob Kosicki
Freshman Narcisse Ewodo looks to create a play for the Wildcats.

Wildcat wrestlers continue to make progress during season

By Rich Glenn

The wrestling team has gotten off to a solid start to this promising season under the guidance of coach Tom Oddo with some solid performances prior to and during the holiday break. The Wildcats beat the Division I Wagner team, 31-12, and then they defeated Washington & Lee.

“The W&L match was a big win for us,” Oddo said. It was the first win in a long time for the Wildcats against the Generals, but the meet turned out to be the biggest win for Davidson of the season. Before the break, Davidson faced off against The Citadel with a team weakened by injuries and lost 31-13. The Wildcats will wrestle the Bulldogs later this year with a chance to redeem themselves.

“We look forward to a very close match with The Citadel when we have our full lineup back,” Oddo said.

Unfortunately, Davidson will be without freshman Ben Wall for the rest of the season, who is out with a neck injury. Wall had been wrestling very well, and led the Southern Conference in pins and had an 8-5 overall record. Wall couldn’t wrestle when the team returned early from the break to face VMI, a squad that beat Davidson 51-0 last season.

“We closed the margin significantly,” Oddo said about the match that wound up 36-9.

Another freshman who has shown great potential is Barrett Rose. He is wrestling in the heavyweight division, but atJust 205 pounds, he is going up against other opponents who push the 275-pound weight limit. “Barrett is a fighter,” Oddo said. Together with Wall, the freshman duo form a young and talented end of the lineup that should just improve over time. Also, captains Sean Harvey and Derek Spencer have contributed to the early success of the Wildcats. “Injuries have definitely taken their toll,” Oddo said as he scrambled his lineup in an attempt to fill the gaps. But the team still competes hard with great desire as it prepares for the Southern Conference tournament in March. The next home meet is Feb. 11 when Davidson hosts the Alumni Reunion match.

Swimmers and divers lose meet against UNC-Wilmington
by William Robert

The men’s and women’s swimming and diving teams traveled to take on a tough UNC-Wilmington team Saturday. Both teams were defeated; the men’s team lost 122 to 112, and the women fell 122 to 97. Despite the loss, the meet was not without several outstanding performances. On the men’s side, freshman Matt Buck eclipsed another Davidson College record — his fourth of the season — with a victory in the 400 IM. His time of 4:15.13 bettered the previous mark set by junior co-captain Churchill Hooff. Buck also won the 200 breaststroke in 2:09.54, which is right at his season-best time in the event. Freshman Freddy Schnell also had two outstanding performances. His time in the 200 backstroke, 1:55.47, reset the school mark he set in November and was good enough for second in the event. He also reset his 100 back record with a 54.38 from his lead-off leg on the 400 medley relay. Both backstroke times were lifetime bests for Schnell. He was also victorious in the 200 freestyle with a 1:46.38. Sophomore diver Michael Hart also earned victories for the Wildcats on both the 1 meter and 3 meter boards. Other outstanding performances were turned in for the men’s team by Hooff with a pair of seconds in the 200 and 500 freestyles and freshman diver Jonathan Frost, who placed third on both boards.

For the women’s team, outstanding performances came from freshmen Heather Sweeney with a second in the 400 IM, Allison Beebe’s third in the 200 fly and second in the 500, and Stephanie Grey with a second in the 1000. Sophomore Susanne Herring placed third in both the 100 and the 200, and junior co-captain Katharine Welling placed second in the 200 back. Junior diver Meg Bentley took third place in 1 meter competition. Also of note were the performances of sophomores Kary Thompson and Ann Hatfield, who both went lifetime best times in both the 500 and 1000; Thompson placed third in the 1000.

The Wildcats head into the homestretch of their season with only three meets remaining before hosting the Southern States championship meet in mid-February. Both teams travel on Thursday to Pfeiffer College, where the women will swim Pfeiffer and the men will take on VMI. The men conclude the week with a meet at home against Georgia Tech on Sunday at 1:00 p.m. The teams will then rejoin forces as they travel to Durham the following Saturday to face both Duke and Richmond.

Women’s hoops hit hard by conference rival UT-Chattanooga

A close game ended in defeat for the women’s basketball team in their loss against Southern Conference foe, Tennessee-Chattanooga on Saturday at home. The Moccasins broke open a close game early in the second half to ensure their win with a final score of 72-61. With sixteen minutes remaining in the game, Moccasin coach Craig Parrott was ejected with two technical fouls. The Big D hoped to play off of this situation to decrease the point spread; however, they were unsuccessful and fell in the end.

The Wildcats were led by junior Kristen Ferrucci who carried the team with 17 points, including six of six shooting from the field. Unfortunately, this was not enough to come from behind. Captain Kristen Solsrud said, “We can play better.” She continued to say that no one was pleased with their court performance. The Wildcats continue to search for their first conference victory of the season. Their next opponent will be Georgia Southern, the defending conference champions, tonight in Belk Arena at 6:30 p.m. Though this next challenge will prove to be as difficult, the Wildcats hope to retain a positive attitude. In their last meeting with Georgia Southern, they lost by only eight points in the conference tournament. Says Solsrud, “We have nothing to lose.” Following this game, Davidson will hit the road to face East Tennessee State and Marshall next weekend. Currently, the Wildcats stand at 4-12 overall with a 0-4 conference record.

-Davidsonian staff