6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1995

Week in Washington

Federal shutdown enters second week

By DAVID SANTSCHI
Washington Week Correspondent

The failure of Congressional Republicans and the White House to agree on spending priorities has resulted in a partial shutdown of the federal government. The partial closure began last Monday when President Clinton vetoed a bill that would have extended the debt ceiling to $4.967 trillion from $4.9 trillion, allowing the government to borrow more money. This continuing resolution also would have financed government agencies whose budgets have not been passed by Congress and signed by the president.

“This is an overall back-door effort by the Congressional Republicans to impose their priorities on our nation,” Clinton said as he vetoed the bill. Clinton objected to raising the debt limit because the bill limited the power of the Treasury Secretary to fulfill government obligations. He decried provisions that would raise Medicare premiums and cut education, social, and environmental programs by up to 40 percent. The bill would also force a balanced budget in seven years, a provision which Clinton believes would bind him to Republican priorities.

House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-GA) accused Clinton of “deliberate misrepresentation.” “We are at an impasse,” White House Chief of Staff Leon Panetta told reporters Tuesday. Both sides are entrenched in their positions: Republicans demand that Clinton agree to balance the budget in seven years, while Clinton insists that Republicans strip the provision raising Medicare premiums. Republicans portray Clinton as fiscally irresponsible. Dole said Thursday that “[Clinton] made it pretty clear that he doesn’t want a balanced budget.” Clinton paints the Republicans as cruel and reckless, saying “the American people should not be held hostage anymore.”

This is the fifth time in fourteen years that the government has ceased part of its operations. The longest previous shutdown lasted only one business day. With Republicans confident of constituent support and Clinton promising to take the budget issue “right into the next election,” the shutdown could continue indefinitely. Gingrich told reporters Wednesday that it “could easily last 90 days.”

Meanwhile, the practical effects of the partial closure were felt immediately. The government is threatened with default as interest payments on the debt come due. Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin resorted to “extraordinary” actions to avert default, using $61.3 billion from federal retirement funds to make interest payments and replacing them with loans that do not count against the debt limit. “This is no way for a great nation to manage its financial affairs,” Rubin said. 800,000 federal workers deemed non-essential, or 40% of the civilian workforce, were sent home from their jobs Tuesday morning, without pay. Essential services like law enforcement, mail delivery, and Social Security, Medicare, and welfare payments are continuing. However, national parks, museums, and landmarks are closed, government hotlines are not being answered, and passport services are suspended, stranding many travelers overseas. “We made it through the day,” said White House Spokesman Michael McCurry Thursday. “But that’s a lousy way to do business.”

The Republican Congress Friday passed an overall budget plan that would balance the budget in seven years, give investors and families with children tax breaks, and dramatically scale back social programs. The House approved the measure 237-189, and the Senate followed 52-47, largely on party lines. President Clinton has promised to veto the bill, so the government will continue operating in a partial shutdown. Talks continued through the weekend over the continuing resolution needed to raise the debt limit and reactivate government services. Democrats promised to use seven years as a “goal” to balance the budget, but Rep. John Kasich (R-OH) said, “We’ve not reached any agreement here.”

Sources include: November 14, 15, 16, 17 of The New York Times.

There are two sides to globalization

By JIM SIBLEY
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

Each speaker at the International Forum on Globalization pointed out the harmful effects of globalization environmentally, socially, and economically. They stressed the potential repercussions of allowing these trends to continue. In many cases, economists were the bad guys. Economists were characterized as the blind leaders of this destructive movement. Speaking only in terms of production costs, profit margin, labor, and capital, and ignoring the fact that real humans are involved, described their short-sightedness. At least, we must strive to balance these economic concepts with terms like social structure, environmental costs, and real distribution of wealth in future matters of policy and corporate decisions, the opponents of globalization argued.

The message was that reducing costs to promote growth does not always lead to the best possible outcome, and that growth in the gross national product is not a valid measure of human well-being and progress. This notion challenges some very basic economic assumptions. Martin Khor from the Third World Network spoke very clearly on the history of globalization, where it came from and where we must go. He compared globalization to colonization. Colonization began more than 500 years ago, with the Europeans extracting raw materials...from the African continent. The disregard of environmental and social costs continued into the 19th century. Commons and communities were destroyed to clear the way for industrialization. Khor pointed out that industrialization, by definition, went against community. Instead of having globalization, we have glob-alization which allows economic disclosure, social disintegration, and environmental destruction. He suggested that localization is the correct path for us to take. Political and corporate policy should accept this new ideology and work towards re-instituting the idea of “community,” Khor said.

By far, the most interesting and effective speaker was Jeremy Rifkin from the Foundation on Economic Trends. He discussed how technology is growing so fast that many industries have automated their plants and decreased the number of jobs in real terms. Unfortunately, this is happening while the population of the world is growing. The Industrial Age involved a mass of human labor, while the Information Age will involve only a small, highly productive elite workforce. We need to weigh the benefits of technology, automation, and reduced costs against lost jobs and environmental factors, Rifkin cautioned.

NOTES

Women’s Studies turns 25

SAN DIEGO—When Carol Council was a 20-year-old student at San Diego State University, she asked her classmates: “Does anybody know someone on campus who’s a feminist?”

“Everyone said, ‘What’s a feminist?’” recalls Council. The year was 1968. Two years later—after countless demonstrations and brainstorming sessions—the first-ever women’s studies department was founded at SDSU. This fall marks the 25th anniversary of the department, now one of the largest in the nation. Born out of the feminist movement, it paved the way for today’s more than 600 women’s studies departments nationwide.

In honor of the anniversary, SDSU held a symposium November 4 called “25 years of Women’s Studies: Where Have We Been, Where Are We Going?” Among the nearly 300 participants was Council. For her, the day had special significance—the department was her brainchild.

“I had met some women and men at a conference in Reno on sex roles. We discussed everything about how women were being discriminated against in society. Then it sort of hit me like a bomb. I realized that it [discrimination] was across the board... the wage differential, job discrimination... economical, political, sociological.

“I decided on the way back in the car, I was going to find someone who would work with me on campus to pull it all together.” After knocking on a lot of doors, Council found a literature professor who shared her interest. Soon they were joined by a couple dozen other students, faculty, and staff.

“We created a ‘rap group’ [the discussion, not musical, kind]. That was the summer of ‘69, and we spent the three months of summer talking about issues. Then we decided we didn’t want to just keep talking, we wanted to have a plan of action and a focus on higher education.”

Although the administration was open to accommodating some women’s studies courses, the group wanted more. They spent most of that school year fighting for their vision. Council recalls one instance when after hearing her presentation, an elderly man in the audience stood and said, “The hand that rocks the cradle shouldn’t rock the boat.”

But the women at SDSU did rock the boat. And their work was part of a larger crusade for women’s rights. Ultimately, a vote by the faculty senate in 1970 led to the creation of the first-ever women’s studies department.

-from the College Press Service

UW student goes on spending spree

MADISON—Quick, what’s the difference between $824.00 or $82,400? Try jail.

On August 19, University of Wisconsin-Madison senior Cheryl Price received a check with a couple of extra zeros before the decimal point from the university as reimbursement for changing health insurance plans. But instead of informing the university of its $81,576 accounting error, Price, who had plans to go to law school and become an attorney, went on a spending spree. On October 29, Price was arrested for theft.

Price's plan, according to UW campus police sergeant Gary Johnson, was to keep the money in an interest-bearing account until the school discovered its mistake, then return the money and keep the interest. “But then, she started spending and spending and spending,” Johnson explained.

By the time the UW’s bursar’s office found the error on September 12—“It nearly jumped out of the page,” recalled Don Miner, an assistant vice chancellor in the UW business services office—Price already had blown quite a bit of her $80,000 stash, telling friends she had come into a substantial inheritance.

When the school contacted Price and offered to set up a payment plan so that she could return the money, Price agreed, wrote what she knew to be a bad check for $75,000 to the school and headed for Mexico, said Johnson. “Well,” he said, “she thought she already was in trouble, she might as well have fun.” She also wrote out a five-figure cashier’s check as a gift to an acquaintance. “We have that,” added Johnson. Altogether, Price’s spending extravaganza topped $60,000.

-from the College Press Service