12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1995

Tanglewood provides relaxing weekend getaway

By Christie Shi
Travel Correspondent

Weekends are made for traveling. After being tied to the weekly class routine, it feels great to get away —
if only for a few hours. If you are looking to escape to an interesting place with something fun and
unique to do, you have to visit Tanglewood Park.

ON THE ROAD AGAIN

Tanglewood was named for its once tangled undergrowth, although some claim its roots lie in Nathaniel Hawthorne’s collection, Tanglewood Tales.
As you enter Tanglewood, the sky fades from view as a natural awning of aged trees shelters the main road.
The enveloping serenity of Tanglewood seems especially relaxing and refreshing after a week of intense cerebral activity at Davidson.

The park is beautiful in all seasons, but especially autumn, with the colorful leaves. The relaxing atmosphere of outdoor enjoyment
provides opportunities for horseback riding on the equestrian trails, fishing in the river and small lakes, and cycling throughout the
park. Golfers take note: Tanglewood hosts the Vantage PGA Tournament and is listed among the top 25 public courses in
the country.

The historical relics on the 1,152 acres include an actual steam locomotive “Old 542,” a monument where the Johnson fort
once stood, and the clapboard Methodist church still sits next to a graveyard with its own captivating history.

My favorite place to visit within the park is Mallard Lake. It has picnic tables and outdoor grills and a
nearby playground. The shores of the lake offer a quiet place to stretch out on a blanket and read a
good book; or take a friend and converse as you feed the ducks.

Perhaps the nicest thing about Tanglewood Park is its location. Easy to find and less than an hour away, Tanglewood
might just prove to be the perfect Davidson hideaway. To get there, take I-77 north to I-40. Get on I-40
east toward Winston-Salem. After about 30 miles on I-40, you will see an exit for Tanglewood Park. Exit and turn
right. Proceed to the first

Meridian Arts Ensemble assembles an eclectic sound

By Liz Lockett
Staff Writer

The Meridian Arts Ensemble provided a dynamic opening for the Davidson College Concert Series. The brass quintet performed a stimulating
array of works by composers ranging from J.S. Bach to Frank Zappa. Some of the works were also composed by
the members of MAE.

The group is influenced by a large variety of styles such as rock and roll, 20th-century “art,” Turkish ceremonial, Middle
Eastern music, reggae, and “ska” (a style based on a sound originated by the Skatalites, identified by a choppy afterbeat
rhythm). These eclectic styles coupled with the group’s classical training give the ensemble a unique dimension in performance.

The first half of the concert consisted primarily of traditional music. They displayed their exceptional ability to perform classical chamber
music with an acute sense of musicality through pieces such as a Bach prelude and fugue, Sarabande by Debussy, (both
arranged for brass by MAE) and a fanfare by Ira Taxin.

After the intermission, MAE hyped up the energy level with upbeat brass renditions of several Frank Zappa hits and some
rather interesting numbers composed by individuals in the group. Jon Nelson, a trumpeter, wrote a unique piece entitled “Song for
a Dead King” as a tribute to Elvis. This number included a humorous dialogue between Elvis and an interviewer, who
were played by Nelson, and trombonist Ben Herrington. Daniel Grabois, the French horn player, attempted to play a bass saxophone
in another off-beat funk piece entitled “Skunk Funk.”

After a lamentation to Frank Zappa, the show ended with a collection of five of his pieces performed in “Zappa”
style, where there are no pauses between any of the pieces. This lively stream of music ended the show with
an incredible energy level and applause begging for the final encore. After such a successful first performance in the Concert
Series, violinist Hilary Hahn, who will be performing in January, is eagerly anticipated.

Fresh from page 10

I like to think of it as my own excursion down memory lane, a journey which led me to, yes,
the Korner Pub. After all, what better place to find young people with hopeful, if not, deluded expectations of the
burgeoning social life at Davidson?

A young person of the female persuasion (who prefers to remain nameless) envisioned her first night as being populated by
a lot of out-of-control drunk freshmen, but she nevertheless was looking forward to the experience as “the beginning of new
options for the freshmen.” Her sentiments were echoed by Alan Hider,Brother of senior Bill Hider, who believes that “nights have
all been running together because they’re all the same — here’s one that’ll stand out.” (Give him a few years.)
Though Alan thinks he would be embarrassed were he to “streak naked” on Friday night, he’ll have no qualms about
stripping down for Self-Selection. Another freshman I met at the pub just looked forward to “getting really loaded — like
I am right now.” In his enlightened state, this young man philosophized that the definitive change for this Friday night
would be that he “would still get drunk, but just be doing it for a longer time.” A particularly frank
freshman confided that his ideal experience on Friday night would be to “get drunk and meet some hot older chick.”
He also intends to waste no time in achieving this goal. Sophomore, junior, and senior ladies, he plans on hitting
the Court right after class, so be on the lookout.

After hearing these hopes and dreams, we couldn’t help but wonder what would happen to our young friends on their
first night down, so we arranged for a follow-up interview on Saturday.

Have you bought your ARTISTS SERIES Season Tickets yet? You only have until Friday, September 29!! Student Tickets only $10
for 5 performances. The Ticket Office in the Union is open Monday through Friday, 2-5. Call 892-2135 with questions. Better
hurry! It’s selling out fast!

Manor House is a bed and breakfast courtesy of Tanglewood Park located on Tanglewood Park that provides tasteful accommodations as
well as excellent cuisine for visitors. At the stoplight, the intersection of US 158, turn left onto US 158 and
proceed for about one mile. The gates to Tanglewood Park will be on the right. There is a $2 per
car entrance fee for the park, and it is open from 7 a.m. to dark. If you are interested in
horseback riding, camping overnight, or tee times, call the park office at (910) 766-0591. If you plan on staying most
of the day, you might consider taking along some food, as the snack bar usually closes for the winter. Or,
you can venture into Clemmons, NC (about 2 miles away) and indulge in all the typical fast food fare. Other
items you will consider helpful: camera, a good book, something to sit or lie on, and a laid-back attitude. If
you need a little more convincing to hit the road, feel free to leave me a voice mail message at
box 3389. Bon Voyage!

Frosh from page 10

Forcing this frosh and friends to continue their festivities in a dorm room. Of course, others had had their fill
by the wee hours, since they had started the night sometime Friday afternoon. “I guess it was poor planning on
our part,” one freshman spoke on behalf of his hallmates, whose Court rally reached as far as PiKA, but lost
its steam around 9:30. Other froshes found amusements apart from those contained in Solo cups. “I heard a band at
this one house,” a freshman reminisced, “and they played this song... man.” Another, considering Sig Ep’s funky band What It
Is, shook his head and closed his eyes, sighing, “There’s nothing like good sax.” One freshman female’s enjoyment of Kappa
Sig’s band was marred by her inability “to keep my eyes off of the lead singer’s chest hair.” Another freshman
occupied himself by meeting as many people as possible. Socializing was “rewarding,” he said, but he bemoaned the “homogeneity of
the Patterson Court population,” saying it lacked the “local flavor” of the pub. This freshman went on to condemn the
new wristband system for Davidson’s social sterility. (The procedure, in theory, secures Court parties against outsiders by requiring student ID
for wristband and admission.) “I mean, I know they don’t look at our IDs,” the tirade continued, “but this security
propaganda creates an atmosphere hostile to my non-student friends.” Most, however, liked the stylish new party accessories. One girl claimed
she and five hallmates walked around in a big blob all night, having interlocked their wristbands to handcuff themselves together.

First Night Down both disappointed and pleasantly surprised our freshpeople. All said the evening was “fun,” but all expressed regret
that “there were not more people running around naked like that bald guy at Phi Delt.”

Treat Yourself for Homecoming! Sculptured Nails • French Manicures • Pedicures • Tanning Booth

At The Duchess we offer you a day of stress-free pampering. Tanning Special: 10 visits for $33.00 New addition to
our store: Facials by Peggy

CONNIE AND MICHELLE: Call Set ae Nails for only $40.00 (thru February) Located at the Chair Factory 20700 N. Main
St., Cornelius (704) 892-7030
