RTS & LIVING TUESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1995

Small towns, high prices: West Virginia teaches basic economics
By Jacob ABRAHAM Guest Writer

I found myself in a bit of a conundrum when I walked into the Study Abroad Office with a very special, unprecedented proposal. In spite of the smirks and bewildered stares that greeted my request, my perseverance paid off as I became the first Davidson student to pursue an independent course of study in the uncharted, wonderful wildness of West Virginia.

As I crossed the border into the great Mountain Mama of the Appalachians, I was struck at first by the crisp, cool breeze wafting over the winding road—a sharp contrast to the dry, fetid stench of the state from which I had just escaped (East Virginia, I think it’s called). The roads here provided a thrill and challenge unparalleled in my many years of driving experience—a veritable obstacle course of potholes and trickily positioned animal carcasses. Not even my tour of the Autobahn wrenched from my gut the brilliant upheavals which these endless curves produced.

My frequent stops did allow me to survey the curious layout of this foreign land. Sharply angled mountains sprung from the earth like burly inbred giants surveying the panorama of forests, rivers, and high-tech semi-spherical communication dishes. I only needed a few minutes in the area to discover a suitable and popular living facility, which the natives refer to as a mobile home. Interestingly, the mobility of these little palaces seems to be potential rather than actual. Even the homes fitted with wheels (instead of the more common concrete block foundation) rarely move about, instead congregating in large herds on empty plots of land.

Unfortunately, acquiring one of these midget mansions all but depleted the funds I had brought with me. Once again my sharp perceptiveness, honed by my fine liberal arts education, saved the day. Deep in the wooded hills I lucked upon a particular type of flora highly prized by the natives. Although these pungent herbs grow freely in the local climate, I succeeded in transplanting a small plot of the precious weed-like plants into the sole closet of my presently immobile home. By mere word of mouth, I quickly connected with a number of youthful customers, who made additional profits by reselling my crops to their companions in the

See Jake on page 9

Curnutte and Maher play (again) in the 900 Room. Singing road songs at a stand-still
By JAMES BERRY Music Critic

Road songs. That’s what Curnette and Maher are all about. And while they make fun of country music, that doesn’t necessarily mean they won’t throw a dash of it into their own. They’re a couple of easy-going guys who just happened to stop by the 900 Room last Monday to give a little concert to a small but interested crowd.

Despite the fact that I’ve been to a million of these Monday night performances and that, without fail, the performers are always late, I (stupidly) continue to show up on time. One benefit from this is that I get a nice long look at the stage before the show starts, which is always kind of interesting for me. This time I felt like someone put just a little too much effort into the whole set design. While the oriental rugs, the southwestern wall hanging, and the mass of candles (not to mention the lighted backdrop) made the stage warm and cozy, it seemed a bit much for such an informal concert. But maybe that was the effect that these guys were trying to achieve.

In my opinion, it was the performers themselves that turned a run-of-the-mill concert into a party with some live music. The band has grown since its last appearance at Davidson. Now a percussionist hangs back behind the two, tapping his tambourine and going wild with an egg shaker. He also had a curious drum set-up that included about six bongos, an African drum, a couple small cymbals, and a set of chimes. The wholeConglomeration looked like a rockin’ set for a midget. I also suspect that the drummer hasn’t been traveling with the band for too long because the whole time I was there, the two guitarists didn’t pay him any attention, even when they were joking with each other. Or maybe he’s just not very funny. It was this informality that made the performance really fun. Before every song, the audience got to hear some random comment or introduction, most of which were pretty funny. “I feel like we need to bond, you guys,” said one of the guitarists addressing the audience. “I feel like we need to draw some personal connection.” Turning to the other he could still be heard without the microphone: “Do you want to sing a stupid song?”

The music of Curnette and Maher is somewhat homogeneous, although it’s got a nice vibe to it. The whole set was made up of two acoustic guitars, the drummer (who went practically unnoticed), and an occasional harmonica. The themes were fairly consistent, touching on subjects like drinking, girls, and driving. A lot of driving. I don’t know how often this band is on the road, but the word “constantly” comes to mind. It wasn’t rare to mix subjects. For example, one song entitled “Confidant” was about having a girlfriend while on the road. There was probably a line about drinking, too. In all, it was a fun show. I got the feeling that the crowd was engaged and the music was perfect for those escaping the clutches of some assignment or other. For those of you who haven’t been to a Monday night performance, you’re missing out.

Christmas
By CHRISTIE SHI
Staff Writer

A recent phone call for directions to Old Salem piqued my interest in the Christmas festivities of this historic town. Starting next Saturday, December 16, the Moravian Christmas celebration begins with traditional holiday events. This restored Moravian village will bring Christmas to life in similar fashion to the festivities of yesteryear. A feast for all the senses, music, decoration, and food are prepared for the public’s enjoyment during this winter gala.

One of my favorite things about Old Salem are the baked goods at Winkler’s Bakery. The Moravian sugar cake and spice cookies in and of themselves justify a visit. I predict their Christmas fare will also tempt the palate. The historically restored village is quaint. If you go, expect to see lots of families marveling at the greenery-strewn window sills and wreathed doors. Modern icons like Santa Claus and the Grinch will not be found in the Williamsburg-like town, but the seasonal festivities will abound.

So, now the real determining factor: Old Salem is an hour away. There are two routes to get there; the first is to take I-77 North to I-40 East. Follow this to Business I-40, and at the Cherry Street exit you will begin seeing signs. The alternate route involves driving up I-85 North to I-52. Take I-52 West to Business I-40 and go West to the Old Salem exit. Either way is about 75 miles. The hours of the celebration are 1 to 7 p.m., and admission is $14 per person. This fee covers entrance to all the historic buildings and houses on the public tour. For further details, call (910) 721-7350.

For those of you who are dying to take a study break but not one of such magnitude, consider the North Carolina Dance Theatre’s production of The Nutcracker, playing at the Blumenthal Performing Arts Center in Charlotte. This ballet will definitely set you in a Christmas spirit with such familiar pieces as Tchaikovsky’s Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy and the Waltz of the Snowflakes. The show runs December 15 to 17 and 21 to 23. Showtimes are 8 p.m. for evenings and 2 p.m. for matinées. Ticket prices vary depending upon seats and availability, and group rate tickets can be purchased.

May this blessed holiday season bring you peace and unity.