THE DAVIDSONIAN __OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1995 9

In this piece, do you think I should have some point, some neatly wrapped and ornamental bit of fact or reality or truth that I can hand to you, my fearless reader, after you have perused these lines? Or should I flail about in hopes I might strike a vein somewhere, hit on a note that takes you back through time and space and a mind full of mingled memories to something you can almost recall, that word sitting on the end of your tongue right now, which cannot quite get off—and you swallow, losing it forever? Do I owe you more? Could I give you more? Could I give you anything at all? Maybe. Anyway, this may or may not be important, but I like sunsets, sometimes. That may seem an odd thing, me liking sunsets sometimes, and maybe it is. The truth is I was spoiled: I can remember sitting on the beach in Maui when I was very young and watching the blazing sun dip into the deep-blue ocean. Then, as my guttural six-year-old mind liked to imagine, the ocean belched, but not in noise. The ocean belched in a flash of green.

Will Bradshaw
Much ado about something

It was fantastic. Since then there have been other sunsets that were almost as wonderful; those sunsets are the “sometimes.” It was the Fourth of July, that most patriotic of holidays, and we were celebrating. Fireworks had been purchased by the score. A large flat stone had been dropped by providence or the previous owners at the edge of our cliff, and it threatened to tumble into the Colorado River. We picked this stone as our firework launching pad, then we gathered our friends and relatives into our oversized yard and feasted. As dusk began to slowly veil our world with semi-darkness we turned to watch the sun drop behind the hills across the river. Whenever every trace of light was gone, and our surroundings were masked from us by our own limitations, the fireworks show began—I loved it.

Four years ago I was driving through the mountains in Northern California with my sister and my aunt. It was just after Christmas time. We were spending the holidays with my mother’s sister, her husband, and my four older cousins instead of taking our regular trek to Texas and my father’s family in Austin. I remember a giant furry finger pointing at me from a two-dimensional bear body painted on a sign, and the threat/challenge/warning that only I could prevent forest fires. And now that I write this I wonder if it wasn’t the summer and I wasn’t in South Dakota with the same aunt, my mother’s older sister.

The Council on Academic Affairs
Not a minor issue

The struggle to add minors to the academic program at Davidson faltered at the end of last semester when it was voted down by the faculty. Many students are unaware of this occurrence and are concerned that minors have faded into the background like other undertakings at Davidson. If the debate over minors is to continue, it must receive campus-wide attention. Students and faculty need to open a productive dialogue about the possibility of minors at Davidson.

The proposal for minors was submitted last spring to the Educational Policies Committee (EPC) by the student-representative Council on Academic Affairs. The proposal was later submitted to the faculty by the EPC with modifications intended to address some of the concerns proposed by the faculty. Along with this proposal, the Council on Academic Affairs sent an open letter to the faculty defending minors and a petition signed by approximately one-fourth of the student body who support the institution of minors.

The proposal asked the faculty to support the option for individual departments to offer minors. Departments would then be able to recognize students who have participated in stringent programs outside their majors. Official requirements for minors would constitute approximately six courses decided on by the department offering the minor as well as a minimum GPA requirement no less than that for a major in the same department.

Minors have not been as widely supported as previously hoped because students have failed to voice significant support for the proposal beyond the petition last spring. Students who are interested should speak with their professors about the potential for minors at Davidson. This week the Council on Academic Affairs will distribute a survey concerning minors to students. Please take the time to respond thoughtfully to each question. In addition, minors will be the topic for discussion at an SGA town meeting on October 26th. The Council on Academic Affairs hopes this meeting will act as an open forum during which students and faculty may present arguments for and against minors.

Meg from page 7

Scholarship; Attend the Ken Kelley Lecture; Come Hear the Bernard Society Speaker; Study with the McGee Visiting Professor; Bonner Scholars Meeting; Exhibition in the Visual Arts Center,” not to mention new residence halls, hundreds of new scholarships, new professorships, book funds ... such a list could literally fill the pages of The Davidsonian!

We are grateful for the accomplishments of this “quiet resolve” and very aware that this strengthening of our college could not have been achieved without the generosity of donors who made gifts in excess of $158,000,000. As reported, donors and volunteers will be thanked on the evening of October 5. The next morning at Fall Convocation, the new professorships, programs, buildings, scholarships, and funds they made possible will be celebrated. Please come to Convocation! Truly, the campaign and the convocation have one thing completely in common: they are both for Davidson and about Davidson and would mean little without you.

Sincerely,
Meg Kimmel ‘77
Director of Research and Stewardship, Office of Institutional AdvancementHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

and the same sister, my only sibling. I don’t know, but the place and time are really not central. What matters is the sunset. The sun fell softly between two jagged peaks and painted them with shadows of purple, blue, and orange. We stopped to admire dusk’s iridescence, right in front of Smokey’s sign. All the more recently, I graduated from high school. The baccalaureate began at 5:00 and thanks to our rather long-winded guest speaker the entire ceremony, graduation and all, was not completed until well into the evening. But as we were gathered, proud graduates of Canterbury (the one in Fort Wayne, Indiana not New England), at the reception in honor of ourselves, the sun set. I could see it well from my vista on the roof, where my friends and I had been shooting off a rather poor collection of fireworks (another re-occurring theme). Sunsets in the Midwest have never been dramatic for me. There are no oceans or mountains or even hills for the sun to dip behind, though sometimes watching the sun drop into a field can be brilliant. Mostly, however, they are mundane in comparison to my belching blue sea. There was nothing fantastic about this particular sunset except that it happened and I was there to see it from a rooftop with my friends, looking down on a world we were soon to leave behind. So I like sunsets, sometimes. I do not think it odd. Do you? There are many things stranger than that, like the person that climbs a tower with a rifle and begins indiscriminately shooting at people. But maybe that’s not very strange either? I don’t know. Anyway, that is a question for another time; I have to go now because I have many new friends at my door, and the sun, as it often does, is setting.

My own personal Eton

In moments of tragic nostalgia my grandfather would place me on his lap and recant stories of an institution of excellence and power that he visited while in England during the second Great War. This unique institution located down the road from Windsor Castle set the standard of excellence in college preparatory education for the country’s future statesmen, barristers, poet laureates, and even mavericks. After all, not only do you have the Duke of Wellington, the Kaynes, the Gladstones, and the Churchills somewhere intertwined in the mystique of the school, but it is said that “larger than life” figures such as Captain Hook, James Bond, and the Lord of Greystoke (Tarzan) attended the hallowed halls of the “public” school known as Eton. I smile when I’m reminded by my pop’s story about the founding of the school for 25 poor indigent scholars in the year 1440. I’m one of many poor “Oxford clerics” surrounded by a minute coterie of noble savages. But not to worry, these feelings are soon replaced by the grounding fact that I am thankful and privileged to be in a great setting such as Davidson. My Eton is my educational sanctuary, a place where a member of the proletariat (such as myself) can learn from great minds and thus give me the nurturing and educating I need in order to combat the burden of negativity history and present day propaganda has forced me to carry. Many Eton graduates go on to serve in Britain’s highest and most respected posts and thus make present attenders of the proud school. This leads me to think about Davidson’s most illustrious graduate, Dean Rusk, and the fact that he rose from oblivion to one of the highest positions in this great nation. So I say to myself: “I’m going to be just as successful as he.” Maybe I’ll be a heck of a diplomat, or a banker or financier, just as other Davidson graduates who have passed “the road less travelled” before me. Those of you who read this probably think I’m having delusions of grandeur. Well, I’m only worried about the one supreme being who is able to judge me. I hold close to me the words of State Secretary Rusk’s statement in the 1961 edition of Current Biography, “pray as if it were up to God. Work as if it were up to you.” My name may not have been automatically placed on Eton’s or any other private institutions’ admission rolls just by the initiation of birthright or social status, but the ideal and the symbol of excellence which I have found here at Davidson tells me that something better out there urges me forward. From my perspective I know I will always be at odds with the inner sanctums that run private institutions such as Eton and Davidson. The members of world newspaper/media empires, such as Rupert Murdoch and Kenneth Thompson, may habitually try to sway public opinion. However, they can’t take away the grounded seed which was planted within me and will lead to the bountiful growth of a Davidson College experience I seek.