12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

LEFTOVER SALMON

This past week featured Leftover Salmon in the 900 Room. They were pretty good for dead fish.

Rob Kosicki

That’s amore ... mmm!

By Rob Kosicki & Jay Shultz
Chefs-in-residence

Cavatelli Casserole combines the cheap pasta meal with the college staple food, pizza. It is simple to prepare and will
provide more than enough food for four or five people. Be sure not to throw out your leftovers because this
casserole tastes just as good when reheated in the microwave. For this recipe, you will need the following ingredients:

1 lb. box Cavatelli noodles
1½ lbs. ground beef
½-¾ lb. shredded mozzarella
½-¾ lb. shredded provolone
¼-½ lb. sliced pepperoni
1 medium onion, sliced
1 48 oz. jar spaghetti sauce
½ tbsp each salt and pepper
1 tbsp oregano

Place Cavatelli in a pot of boiling water and cook like you would any other type of pasta. While the
noodles are cooking, brown hamburger and sliced onion in a frying pan on med-high heat. When the hamburger is done,
drain excess fat from the pan. Combine noodles, hamburger, salt, pepper, and oregano to taste. A casserole pan would be
best to use, but any type of deep dish will do. Next, add pepperoni, sauce, and mozzarella and mix thoroughly.
Sprinkle provolone cheese on top of the casserole. Bake for 30 minutes at 325°, or until provolone cheese turns a
golden brown. Garlic bread and a tossed salad will complement this well-balanced meal.

With all of the money you are saving on this cheap meal, we recommend you splurge and buy a nice
bottle of white wine (not Boone’s) or some imported beer; it will make the evening that much better. We hope
you enjoy the casserole... until we cook again.

SINCE NOT A SINGLE ENTRY WAS SUBMITTED FOR THE DAVIDSONIAN’S PHOTO CONTEST, THE CONTEST DEADLINE WILL BE EXTENDED UNTIL TUESDAY
AT 5 P.M. ENTRIES SHOULD BE PUT IN THE ARTS & LIVING FOLDER ON THE OFFICE DOOR IN THE UNION.
PRIZES WILL BE GIVEN.

CD Review
Unknown bands worth your right pinky

By Curtis Mann
Staff Writer

Swervedriver very well could be the greatest band in this galaxy without a U.S. label. Such a travesty recently forced
me to shell out a few extra bucks for the import EP "Last Day On Earth" in the hopes that
I might relive the joy I found in the majestic sounds of ‘93’s "Mezcal Head" as well as ‘91’s "Raise."
At first listen, the scaled-down sound of the songs might surprise Swervedriver fans. After all, this is the band whose
guitar-drenched, pedal-crazy tunes would make Billy Corgan jealous. Even without the walls upon walls of swirling sound, Swervedriver maintains a
spectacular dynamism. I quickly found myself replaying the four tracks over and over again. The last track, “The Director’s Cut
Of Your Life,” builds up from a steady melancholy to a fevered pace climaxed in an intense solo so gratifying
I liken it to a religious purging, the effects pedal bursting forth at the perfect moment. And the title cut
is a sleek, sublime ballad sure to suck you in. Their most recent LP stands nearly atop the UK-Indie charts
and yet "Ejector Seat Reservation" may never see the light of day here in the states. I certainly have no
qualms about the extra dough I spent for the EP, and I’ll gladly give my right pinky (or at least
$20) for a copy of their latest album.

Earth Eighteen is another band most have never heard of, but whose music transcendently astounds. This chic glam-rock outfit creates
wonderful guitar-driven pop alongside extensive use of the synthesizer in their debut entitled "Butterfly." Here, the synthesizer serves to accentuate
and bolster the sound rather than detract and distract as most bands tend to do with the instrument nowadays. No
happy-go-lucky synthesizer a la ELO, Supertramp, or Jellyfish will be found here; instead, an otherworldly, atmospheric effect is produced by
the keyboard work of Jon Dupree, who also sings and provides plenty of hook-heavy guitar work. Also absent from "Butterfly"
are the sugar plum fairy lyrics most modern pop musicians feel obliged to use to coincide with their joyous melodies
and happy harmonies. While retaining outstanding melodies and with an uncanny pop sensibility, Earth Eighteen is a bright, ethereal otherworld
you ought to visit, far removed from the dreary muck of the contemporary pop music world. I'd give my right
pinky for them, too.
