THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, MARCH 20, 1995

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
MANDY CURTIS
JEFF KENT

Opinions Editor
DAVID SANTSCHI

Copy Editors
ROBERT RAMSAY
TERESA WHITE

Arts & Living Editors
JACOB ABRAHAM
WILLIAM ROBERT

Associate Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
KATHERINE HASH
RUSS TARVER

Sports Editor
MATT PITZER

Advertising Managers
WALT BARRON
MARY CLARE JALONICK
CAROLINE BYNUM

News Editor
ROB KOSICKI

Assistant News Editor
MATTHEW EIRICH

Circulation Manager
CRAIG MURPHY

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

“THAT OUTFIT REALLY HIGHLIGHTS THE MARMOREAL GLOW OF YOUR SKIN VIVIAN, AND YOUR POSE IS PARTICULARLY MOVEMENTED, BUT WHY THE HELL CAN'T THEY DIM THE LIGHTS IN HERE?”

We art historians attempt: intimacy in dining

Man, this toy store’s pretty big. Father and daughter journey down to Charlotte to look for possibly the biggest toy the parents have ever given her. A car. In a word, “psyched” about sums up all of the feelings of the day. She’s psyched that her parents want to help start her off as an adult. He’s psyched because the car could enable employment in the upcoming years. But mostly, she’s psyched because it’s going to be hers.

After a number of hours searching and scoping, wheeling and dealing, they make up their minds about what she should get that will be appropriate: safe, comfortable, practical, economical. The deal goes down; everybody’s happy; dad leaves town; daughter’s left to pick up the car and sign the paperwork — in her name. She’s finally an adult.

So why, then, is she so scared when daddy leaves town? Why does she suddenly feel nervous when she’s left on her own to figure out the dirty work? Picking out the car is the fun part, the easy part carried out by the child. This is the hard part — insurance, registration, property taxes, temporary tags, etc. Suddenly, the toy store seems so much bigger and more serious and the salesperson so much meaner and scarier when the parent leaves the child alone at the register. Suddenly, things don’t seem so easy and carefree. Suddenly, there is responsibility.

She’s scared because she’s never done anything like this by herself before. She’s scared because she’s the one who needs to make the final decision to sign the papers in her name and trust that everything’s running smoothly — a judgment call she’s never had to make before. She’s had her parents there to do things for her, to protect her from big people who might want to trick her, to make those judgment calls based on their lifetime of experiences.

It’s okay that she’s a little nervous — she should be. Never mind that she called her mom before she went and immediately called her dad at the first pay phone on the way home. Of course, she still wants to make sure she knows what to do, that they approve, and that she’s done things right. She, like all of us, will always look to her parents for approval and encouragement just as her children someday will look to her for that same security and confidence. But she needs to do these things on her own as one of the many steps to becoming an adult.

Becoming an adult means more than merely picking out the toy off the shelf, but picking up the responsibilities and fulfilling them. Becoming an adult means adding onto the list of lifetime experiences, trusting the judgment that is based on what parents have taught for 20 years, and growing up.

LETTERS

Staton committed to health care

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees.of Davidson College.

To the editor,

As reported in a recent issue of The Davidsonian, the SGA passed a resolution regarding the Student Health Facility entitled “The Declaration of Rights.” Having been appointed Director of the Student Health Facility (SHF) early last academic year, I am now responsible for campus health services, and it is incumbent upon me to address the issues raised by such a resolution. Part of my response is to speak to the campus community in this open letter.

My first statement is to affirm that I am committed to our facility’s offering health services of the greatest breadth and quality afforded by the resources available at Davidson College. For example, this first year has seen a doubling of the health educators’ time and our first Health Fair on campus. Furthermore, if there is a significant deficiency, I am also committed to addressing it. As a current student at Davidson, as an alumnus, and as an individual used to a sense of professionalism and pride in my work, I would not be satisfied with any less.

The SGA resolution came from some work done by Senior Class President B.J. Rudell at the beginning of this academic year. Dean of Students Tom Shandley and I met with him and some other concerned students at that time. Several immediate response steps were taken then, such as posting a notice requesting students’ comments/complaints and discussing with staff and students from Davidson Clinic these issues. In a separate but related matter, I had already begun exploring if the marketplace of health service providers in this area might offer service enhancements, such as increased physician coverage, at a cost similar to what we now pay for our contract with the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Health Authority/Davidson Clinic. That effort continues.

Although I was disappointed that the SGA resolution took almost the form of a written 60 Minutes feature story, containing statements that were more negative and inflammatory than task-oriented, I am nevertheless grateful for the student interest in the health services on campus and for the feedback and focus for improvement it can provide us at the Student Health Facility. All of the points made will spur some really helpful self-appraisal by the SHF. Some of the complaints seemed frankly unrealistic or inaccurate. I realize, however, that my perception to this effect might be suspect for some students who would see this as merely a defensive administrative stance. In an effort to prevent this from occurring (or any misperception to that effect) and in hopes of using the resolution as a point of departure for positive change, I have sought the help of an ad hoc Health Services Advisory Committee.

I desired an impartial, authoritative, and effective committee who represent the college community. I was gratified that each person I approached immediately agreed to serve. Two students are included: Lucien Dervan (representing the SGA) and Debbie Liverman (representing students' residence staff). I encourage students to apprise them of any concerns. I also included a faculty member, Dr. Don Kimmel, who teaches biology, has an M.D. degree, and is highly respected by students and faculty. Assistant Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano represents not only college staff input, but demonstrates an advantageous special interest in women’s issues. Lastly, I found in Charlotte cardiologist Dr. K.D. Weeks, a distinguished outside physician who is also an alumnus and the parent of a current student.

This committee will meet this semester and the next to review the SGA resolution, to acquaint themselves with the SHF, to make recommendations, and to review SHF responses. I expect these efforts to be fruitful and substantive. I hope that the college community can be assured that the Student Health Facility is responsive and doing its job well as we work on these matters in the upcoming months.

Sincerely,

David Staton, Ph.D.
Director, Student Health Facility

The Davidsonian has e-mail. We welcome comments, complaints, suggestions, letters, etc. Drop us a line any time: Davidsonian@Davidson.edu