THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 1995

Football boasts largest roster under Landis

By Matt Pitzer
Sports Editor

This season, more than ever, time will tell the story for the Wildcats.

Forced to fill many holes from last year’s squad, the Wildcats will turn to their class of 30 freshmen and
numerous sophomores to play many key roles.

FOOTBALL

“If we can stay patient,” coach Tim Landis said, “we can progress and become a good football team. With all
the youth we have, we really need to have heavy concentration and repetition.”

To help with that, the Wildcats have their largest roster ever under Landis, with 70 players currently on the squad.
With only eight seniors, the majority of the team is made up of freshmen and sophomores — many of whom
have played little or no college football.

For instance, Davidson must find a new quarterback, but none of the six quarterbacks on the team has taken a
snap in college. Currently, the race for the starting job appears to be between sophomore Tommy Dugan and freshman Clif
Henry.

To further complicate things, the Wildcats are switching from the run-and-shoot style of offense they’ve used recently and are going
to set up in the I-formation. In that alignment, Mike Warrick will be the likely starting fullback, and three players
(Bryan Kern, John Blake, and Dan Jonas) are competing for the tailback job.

In explaining his decision to go with a more conservative offense, Landis said he and his coaches wanted a style
of play that would better complement the team’s excellent defense. Despite last season’s 3-7 record, the defense had some of
the better statistics in the nation.

“We want a really solid running game with real ball-control passing,” Landis said. “Most teams like to have a quick-hitting
offense to go with a tough defense, but that can work against you, because the defense is out there so
long and gets worn down. We felt we’ve established a tradition on defense. Now we feel that we’re going to
have a better combination of the offense and defense.”

On the defense line, literally the biggest hole to fill is the one left by 6-4, 285-pound lineman Mills Ariail.

However, the three people who started alongside him, Bo Bartholomew, James Cassidy, and Matt Eckert, will all return.

“Only patience and time will tell how good the defense is,” Landis said. “I think that we’ll have more of
a finesse defense. They have the potential to be a really good defense.”

That seems to be the team’s whole story, which will start writing itself Sept. 9 at home against the University
of the South.

FOOTBALL SCHEDULE

Sept. 9 Univ. of the South 1:30
Sept. 16 Maryville 1:30
Sept. 23 at Emory & Henry 1:30
Sept. 30 at Guilford 1:30
Oct. 7 at Washington & Lee 2:00
Oct. 14 Methodist 2:00
Oct. 21 at Randolph-Macon 1:30
Oct. 28 Hampden-Sydney 1:30
Nov. 4 at Centre 1:30
Nov. 11 Bridgewater 1:30

RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING CORPS

GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD.

Your Uncle Sam. Every year Army ROTC awards scholarships to hundreds of talented students. If you qualify, these merit-based scholarships
can help you pay tuition and educational fees. They even pay a flat rate for textbooks and supplies. You can
also receive an allowance of up to $1000 each school year the scholarship is in effect. Find out today if
you qualify.

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE.

Enroll in MIL 101 - U.S. Army Today, and have the opportunity to apply for a 3-year scholarship that can
help pay for tuition. For more information, call Captain Sean Lynch at 892-2165, or stop by the Army ROTC office:
Rm 2, Basement of Belk Hall.

WELCOME BACK STUDENTS!

Sculptured Nails • French Manicures
Pedicures • Tanning Booth

At The Duchess we offer you a day of stress-free pampering.

New additions to our store:
- Facials
- Skin care
- Facial Tanning
Ask for Peggy
TANNING SPECIAL:
10 visits for $33.00

CONNIE AND MICHELLE:
Full Set of Nails for only $40.00 (thru February)

Located at the Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St., Cornelius
(704) 892-7030

New Stuff • August 29th

The Story
Drivin’ 'n' Cryin’
Dire Straits Live at the BBC
Too Wong Foo

New Stuff • September 12th

Superchunk
G Love & Special Sauce
Lenny Kravitz
Morrissey
Lisa Loeb
Johnny Depp
Red Hot Chili Peppers

HOME

19507 NC Hwy. 73 • P.O. Box 2503 • Cornelius, NC 28031
(704) 896-7882
