‘THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1995 15

Explore the American Heritage
The weekend makes a great time to visit famous battlefields
By Christy Sui
Travel Correspondent

My father, a Colonel in the United States Marine Corps, imbued upon me an intrinsic admiration for those men and
women who have willingly staked their lives for this nation. I find this a truly honorable act of loyalty, and
often heroism in spite of the question concerning the morality of war. I cannot say I have ever been willing
to die for something; and yet, in almost every war in our history, thousands of men and women have willingly
sacrificed their lives, dreams, and personal opportunities to defend this country.

You might be wondering if I have somehow confused the upcoming holiday season with Independence or Memorial Day. I am
simply establishing the validity and importance of taking time to visit the historic battlefields. There are two such parks located
only ninety minutes from Davidson, Kings Mountain National Military Park and Cowpens National Battlefield.

Anyone who has crossed into South Carolina on I-85 has seen the signs for Kings Mountain Park. This site actually
saw battle during the Revolutionary War. In 1780, a group of mountain pioneers rushed south from Tennessee, gathered support along
the way, and overwhelmed the extremely confident Tory force on this mountain and turned the tide of the American Revolution.
Now a park, Kings Mountain offers a film and a marked battlefield trail to enrich one’s knowledge. Adjoining the National
Military Park is Kings Mountain State Park which offers all the amenities of a state park, such as camping, hiking
trails, fishing, and boat rentals. This is a great park for picnicking. Both parks are open daily; national park (803)
936-7921; state park (803) 222-3209. The parks are located

Home from page 12

Experience or were lucky enough to get drawn to go on the Odyssey, you can feel pretty lonely at times.
So try to be there for us! Little things mean a lot! The biggest fears we faced when we got
here were whether or not we would find true friends, and whether or not our academic superiority would continue.

The academic fears have not diminished! Although many friendships have developed, fitting in is still a big issue: guys are
anxious about getting a bid from a fraternity, and girls are trying to decide whether or not to join an
eating house, and if so, which one. There is a lot going on inside of freshmen (and probably some of
the older “generation”) even if we don’t admit it right off the bat. We don’t need to face it alone!
Many try to suppress the unpleasant/troublesome feelings of not belonging, or at least to try to hide them well. Now
that we are holding our own leashes and want to prove that we can, it just doesn’t look good to
be “weak” in front of others. It is actually kind of paradoxical, if we are all afraid of the same
thing, yet choose to sufferAlone, when instead we could be helping each other. Everybody leaves home at some point in
their life and has to deal with the fact that there is no one to take over when you make
a mistake and tell you that something or somebody is not right for you (not that we would necessarily listen).
However, we are not the only cause of our feelings of insecurity. Parents have a lot to do with our
“homesickness.” They can make it extremely difficult for us to begin our own lives, by not letting us go. The
more often we have to call them, the less “emotional” permission they are giving us to get on with our
lives; in a sense, they do not want to give up their influence on us. This is not always the
case. Some don’t call at all, and that can make us feel even more neglected. This is also not always
the case. Some of us don’t want to be called. Acceptance is a big issue in any community, on every
level: in sports, academics, and social events. We assume various roles as we try to find our anchors in Davidson,
and we really need all the love and support we can get in doing so, to fill the empty space
that once held our last residence. Home has always been where the heart is! As Davidson becomes a part of
us, we are taking it into our heart and searching for a new home. Many have found it, but we
still need a little reassurement every once in a while, to help us realize that we do belong. That means
from you, too, Brothers and Sisters!

-- WRITE FOR THE DAVIDSONIAN! CALL Mart, JEFF, JOHN, OR Mart. +2148, Ly between S.C. 161 and I-85, most easily
accessed by following the signs from I-85 South. A little further south, in Cherokee County, is Cowpens National Battlefield. On
January 17, 1781, an old Virginian named Daniel Morgan led a rustic militia against Col. Banastre Tarleton and a select
corps of British troops. Morgan’s victory made history, and is today memorialized by the memorabilia and multi-image slide show, “Daybreak
at Cowpens.” Also at the Battlefield are a walking trail and marked road tour, picnic facilities, and a visitor center
with exhibits. The slide presentation runs on the hour from 9 until 4, and the park is open from 9
until 5. Admission to the slide presentation is $1, and the phone is (803) 461-2828. To get to Cowpens, take
I-85 South to South Carolina exit 90 to S.C. Scenic Highway 11. Once on Highway 11, the park is approximately
eleven miles on the left. If you have never visited a National Battlefield, you are missing out. It doesn’t matter
whether you are a pacifist or not; many people have given their lives on such fields so that you might
have the opportunity to make that choice. A visit to the battlefield will both enrich your experience and ensure that
those who fought did not do so in vain.

Comments, Questions, etc. Voice Mail Box 3389.
