THE DAVIDSONIAN

Kurt Holmes takes over Residence Life

After extensive search, replacement for Richard Terry found right across the hall

By Meg Worrall
Staff Writer

During an intensive selection process to fill the position of Director of Residence Life, Kurt Holmes, former Patterson Court Advisor, was selected to fill the position recently vacated by Richard Terry. Terry accepted a position as Director of Auxiliary Services. Holmes originally started out on the search committee appointed to find the new director, but after an acceptable successor had not been found, Holmes withdrew from the committee and submitted his application for the position.

“Director of Residence Life was never my goal,” says Holmes. “Davidson’s Residence Life Office is really unique since it is auxiliary. You can consider a lot of options — you just wouldn’t get this job anywhere else.”

Holmes has some long-term goals for residence life at Davidson. “I really see it as the difference between preferred maintenance and some new programs. We have gotten past the point of just fixing things now and would like to make some positive changes, such as computer networking and study lounges within the dorms. Of course, none of this is going to happen overnight, but it is something to look towards.”

In the short term, Holmes and a selection committee are looking to find a replacement for his former job, Patterson Court Advisor. Currently, Holmes is filling both positions. Eighty-five applications were received for the position and the committee interviewed four, but have not reached a consensus. Two other applicants may visit Davidson soon. “We are glad that the students are back so that now we can conduct a real search.”

Rob Kosicki

Norfleet to head business and finance

By TERESA WHITE
Assistant Arts & Living Editor

Robert Norfleet ‘70 has been chosen as the new Vice President of Business and Finance. He replaces Robert Sutton ‘54 who retired after ten years of service at Davidson. Norfleet comes from Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, VA, where he spent two years as Director of Admissions and Financial Aid and 11 years as Treasurer and Vice President of Administration.

In his new position, Norfleet handles personnel, college property, and the Physical Plant, and manages the school budget and endowment. “I’m glad to be back at Davidson,” Norfleet says. “It was a great school when I was a student, and now... it’s even better.”

OUTBOUND OUTFITTERS
- Owner operated
- 10-6, M-F; till-3, Sat; till 8, Thu
- Sportswear, boots, packs, tents, sleeping bags, climbing gear, accessories, gifts
- Merrell, Raichle, HiTec, Garmont, Moss, Black Diamond Brand, Marmot, Peak1, Montbell, Patagonia, and MEI, Gramicci, Woolrich and More
- Short-sleeved Shirts NOW OPEN

OUTBOUND OUTFITTERS
Clothing, Gear and Gifts
246 N. Main Mooresville for the Outdoors
662-8422

Mandy Curtis

Town library nearing completion

By JOANNA JOHNSON
Asst. News Editor

A complicated plan and four years of negotiating have finally yielded Davidson’s new town library, situated on the village green. The town’s 25,000 volumes will soon be transported to the new building from the old library space at 212 South Main Street. Nancy Dishman, Manager of the Davidson Library, complains that the 1500 square foot space is insufficient for the number of books and the number of people who use the location for informal gathering. “If we have 10 people in here, we’re crowded.”

Davidson’s town library is a branch of the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Public Library. Library officials originally talked about relieving overcrowding by combining local branches in Davidson, Huntersville, and Cornelius into a regional branch. Davidson library and town officials responded to the threat by forming a three-way effort to save the library. Library officials approved a plan offered by the town and Davidson College to finance the project. The public, headed by Dr. John Kelton, executive assistant to President Kuykendall, began a campaign in April to raise $136,000 to finance the new building. The goal was surpassed by almost $80,000. Trustees from Davidson approved a plan for the college to provide and maintain the site for the library for 50 years.

Construction began last spring after a temporary fence was built by local elementary students aided by Davidson College students. The fencedisplayed painted children’s book covers and the words “Look into Books” painted with the O’s as peepholes allowing viewing of the construction. The exterior of the building was designed to match neo-classical designs throughout the campus and town. The front portico was designed especially for performances and town events. The inside measures 6000 square feet and reflects a 25% increase in shelving area. Dishman predicts that more space will especially benefit children who now have their own separate area, and townspeople who now “have a lot more space to gather and discuss on an informal basis.” The new library will be officially open for public use during the last week of September, with a ribbon cutting following in October.

Ken Brown to lead Dean Rusk
Ambassador Brown steps into Jack Perry’s shoes
By TERESA WHITE
Assistant Arts & Living Editor

The Dean Rusk Program for International Studies hired Kenneth Brown as its new director. Brown recently retired after 34 years in the State Department, serving mainly in Africa. Brown has been an ambassador to Congo (‘82-’84), Côte d’Ivoire (‘89-’92), and most recently to Ghana, where he earned his Ph.D. from the University of Cape Coast. He also served as deputy assistant Secretary of State for Africa (‘87-’89) and as the US Consul General in South Africa (‘84-’87).

At Davidson, he hopes to draw from his extensive background in Africa, not only within cultural events, but in the classroom as well. “I won’t do it this fall, but I'd like to teach a class per year, perhaps in foreign policy or African politics,” he said. “I plan to build on the work of Jack Perry,” Brown said. “There will be a strong continuation of previous programs” focusing on both political and cultural programs. Students will help develop and continue the programs. Brown also plans to work closely with students interested in the international studies program and international careers.

AA from page 1
Students who pay to become “Patterson Court Members” will be required to wear wristbands at all advertised parties.

Adapt and tweak
The implementation of the wristband policy presents the houses with many changes and adjustments to make. According to PCC President Steven Shames, one concern is that because students who can drink legally and those who can’t will be easily distinguishable, underage students will be prevented from drinking or will be issued alcohol violations by the Campus Police. “If you have a clear cup and a cop sees a person with a hot pink [underage] wristband, the cop might be bound to cite that person,” says Shames. Shames says that houses will be required to be creative in avoiding such a situation by using colored rather than clear cups, for example. Shames also says that the cops are not at the parties to bust people, but rather to keep the party safe for everyone.

Another concern, says Shames, is that during prime party hours, between 10 and 11 according to Shames, houses could employ several people to check IDs or post checkpoints at the front and back doors. Shames says it will take “a concerted effort on the part of the houses” to make the logistics of the new plan work smoothly. He is optimistic that the character and enjoyment of Court parties will not be affected by the wristband plan. “Hopefully, it really shouldn’t change things that much.”

Independents will also be voting members of the PCC starting this year. Since independents will be contributing money for Court parties, Shames says “PCC members not affiliated with a house now deserve representation.” The independent representatives will be elected early this semester, but the exact format of the election is yet to be determined. Shames plans to consult the SGA about the best way to conduct the election. Shames believes that this new plan will actually create greater unity between independent and affiliated students. “Everybody felt they [independents] were a part [of the Court], now they definitely are.” Shames recognizes that unforeseen problems will arise and promises that the PCC will “definitely evaluate as we go... It [the plan] will need to be refined.”