4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1995

Order of Omega on the horizon
Patterson Court Council establishes first honor society for members of the Court

By SARAH TEACHWORTH
Staff writer

A brand new student organization is in its planning stages, but with a target group unlike any existing campus associations. The Order of Omega is a national organization whose purpose is to recognize fraternity and sorority members who have displayed leadership, intelligence, and community service qualities. Steve Shames, President of the Patterson Court Council, is largely responsible for bringing this respected organization to campus.

Since Davidson doesn’t host any national sororities, eating houses will be permitted to participate. “I think it’s great that the eating houses are going to be allowed to be involved even though we’re not on a national level,” says Connor President Jill Dyer.

Shames noticed some of his fraternity brothers wearing Order of Omega pins at a Phi Delta Theta general convention in Arizona last June and was interested in what they represented. This fall he spoke with Dean of Students Tom Shandley and Patterson Court Advisor Kurt Holmes about the possibility of forming a Davidson chapter. Both Shandley and Holmes liked the idea.

Shames made the necessary phone calls and received a petition to charter from The National Order of Omega. Shames says, “In bringing the Order of Omega to Davidson, the Patterson Court Council is attempting to recognize campus leaders and to show the contributions people have been making for their houses, Patterson Court, and the college community.”

After the petition is approved, a charter group will be established. The executive board of the Patterson Court Council will be included. Other members of the Council are encouraged to apply; Shandley and Holmes will make the final decisions on whom to accept to the organization. Once established, the charter group will convene to straighten out the logistics of the Davidson chapter.

Davidson students take advantage of the spring weather by moving themselves, their friends, and their socializing outdoors in front of Chambers.

LAZY DAYS

Party from page 1

Council Steve Shames sees the same kind of conservative body for “right now, but you never know what is going to happen. We fully supported the co-ed eating house, but without the support of students there is no need to make administrative policy. The same goes for sororities. The possible changes that might occur on the court might be a spark to set off change, you never know. The impetus for change has to come from the students.”

Breaking and entering and larceny from motor vehicle: a pair of Ray-Ban type sunglasses valued at $8.00 was stolen from a 1995 Jeep Cherokee parked in the west row of spaces in Belk parking lot. The method of entry was an unsecured rear door.

Warning—The Davidson Campus Police advise all students who are leaving their cars at Davidson over the break to park their cars in the parking lots of either Baker Sports Complex or the tennis courts. Police will be monitoring the Baker Sports lot carefully.

WANT TO HELP WITH THIS FALL'S ORIENTATION?

The Harmony Committee is currently considering using a play as the focal point for the 1995 Orientation Diversity Program (formerly the 'Book Discussion’). IfIf you have specific suggestions for plays that deal with themes of diversity, transition, or power, that you think you would have enjoyed reading the summer before your freshman year, please give the title, along with a synopsis to the Residence Life Office by March 15. One of the group’s first duties will be to decide which students will be allowed to apply for membership this spring. Only juniors and seniors can be inducted into the association, but it is yet to be determined whether or not this year’s graduating class will be permitted to apply. The organizers of the chapter are hoping that the membership of Davidson’s first Order of Omega chapter will be established before Spring Convocation. Applicants must be active members of a Patterson Court house who have not only shown leadership in their house but who have also demonstrated scholarship, good character, and interest and participation in campus activities. The selection process may include an interview and/or recommendation of professors, faculty advisors, and house presidents. Membership of the Order will be limited to no more than 3% of the total Court membership. This translates into 32 or fewer inductees from fraternities and eating houses this spring. Shames is excited about the organization’s Davidson debut because it may help to improve the perception of fraternities and eating houses. He says, “Changing people’s mindset about Patterson Court is a slow process, but it’s a step in the right direction.”

Stuffin’ the internet with mail for SGA
By RANDY HARTWELL
Staff writer

Davidson students looking to make a pit stop while cruising the Infobahn can now pull over at the SGA. In a move sure to bring the Student Government Association into the cyberspace-age, students can now directly access the SGA via e-mail. Says SGA Chancellor Dennis Seavers, “The idea is to use the medium to give students another way to get in touch with the SGA, to let us know about their concerns, things they’d like changed about Davidson.” Students can simply log on to Pollux and address e-mail to the user name SGA as they would another Davidson student. Mail will get routed to the Postmaster, and then to Seavers at the SGA offices, where he will forward mail to whomever it concerns. SGA President Bill Gullan is excited about the use of the new technology as part of day-to-day SGA business. “I feel it’s part of the overall scheme of getting more people involved,” he says, “[Putting SGA on-line] was a natural step, since so many students use e-mail.” Academic Facilities and Services Coordinator Lydia Lorenzin says greater things will come of the SGA’s new electronic access. “We hope in the future we can give more mailing list-type services; creating this type of user name is an interim step.” Lorenzin refers to a method similar to that used by direct mail catalogs and voice mail message lists. “For instance, if the SGA would like to post minutes that way, students can subscribe to it,” she says.

Write for News. Call Mary Clare at -2148.

with any ice cream or frozen yogurt purchase and this
VERMONT'S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN
The Arboretum 543-8333
202 S. Main St. Davidson 892-0604
507 Providence Rd. 333-1003