Che D
"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"
Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXVI NUMBER 16 MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 1995

Let It Snow?

"Photo by Rob Kosicki: Snow covered the campus on Monday, January 23. Though novel and serene for most of the morning, the snow turned into a wet mess by afternoon. Luckily the flurry did not deter classes or cause any major accidents."

WDAV
Will funding cuts mark the demise of our community public radio stations?
By Bryan Allison

Since the federal government has run an immense deficit in spending, Republicans have renewed the effort to balance the budget. With the significant amount of new blood in Congress, cuts in many areas are being proposed. Elimination of federal funding for public broadcasting has been targeted as one of these spending cuts.

Licensed to Davidson College, WDAV (Classical 89.9 FM), which draws 26% of its budget from the U.S. government this year, is one of numerous public radio and TV stations that has much to lose if this funding is no longer provided. WDAV station manager John Clark says, “The system has worked well here for 25 years. It would be a shame to cut things that in the long term may do more harm than good.”

The system that Clark refers to is a federal-local partnership that the government has provided through the CPB, the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. WDAV does not answer to Congress or the CPB; it is locally controlled and draws most of its support from the surrounding area. It represents community interests, and it commits many hours of free air time to encourage the local arts.

But the fight is not over yet. A task force comprised of WDAV, WFAE, and WTVI (Channel 42) recently sent letters to over 22,000 of their supporters, urging them to write their local congressmen. Martina Hone, Legislative Assistant to North Carolina District 12 Representative Melvin Watt, said, “We are working hard to ensure that public broadcasting continues to receive the funding it needs to serve our communities.”

Sorority strife causes Panhellenic face-off
By Carrie Blackburn & Kerry Albright

A discussion of sororities joining Patterson Court turned into a tense face-off when representatives of the National Panhellenic Council and students from Wake Forest University and Presbyterian College addressed an audience about the benefits of sisterhood.

On January 24, members of Zeta Tau Alpha, Chi Omega, and Alpha Delta Pi chapters tried to dispel several stereotypes associated with sororities, such as high costs, lack of academic achievement, and hazing. The speakers also tried to de-emphasize the rushing process by calling it “mutual selection.” They described “mutual selection” as a match-up process in which women find which house best suits them and houses find rushees which best suit the house.

According to the panel, some advantages of sororities over eating houses include stronger bonds of friendship during college and networking opportunities for jobs in the future. Beth Mannle, the Grand National President of Alpha Delta Pi, stressed the far-reaching ties of sisterhood. She cited anecdotal experiences about sisters helping her on moving day, recommending the best doctors in her new town, and writing over 300 letters to her son during the Gulf War. She says, “No matter where we went to school, we’re sisters; that commitment lasts a lifetime.”

Sophomore BarbaraHarvey set up the forum because of her favorable experience last semester as a transfer at Georgia Tech where she pledged Zeta Tau Alpha. At the meeting, her enthusiasm about this issue was obvious as she said, “I really believe in this system.” A member of Rusk, Harvey says she has nothing against eating houses, but she found that sororities offer women many more opportunities similar to those enjoyed by fraternities. She feels that Patterson Court is almost discriminatory because eating houses are not equivalent to fraternities. Harvey says, “Guys have more personal bonds than we do.”

Junior Rachael Tripi, a returning Davidson student, echoed such sentiments about her time at Lehigh University where she pledged a sorority. She thinks sororities would help “make us more equal with men because they have fraternities.” Tripi discussed the possibility of structurally changing the eating houses as another option for strengthening the sense of community among women because within her sorority, they “were just like family.”

Allison Good and Chrissie Hudson, members of Connor House, voiced many women’s fears of losing the uniqueness of our self-selection process. They agree that sororities are important at larger schools but do not see the need for them on Davidson’s smaller campus of only about 800 women.

To help mitigate the crowd’s anxieties, Cathy Slaughter, Vice President of Scholarship for the foundation for Zeta, said, “There is no set limit to the number of women who could join a sorority, and we would help you decide how big.”

See Kappa continued on page 4

SGA works for better health services
By Meg Wolff & Peter Varney

Senior Class President B.J. Rudell presented a “Declaration of Rights” to the SGA aimed at improving the quality of health services on campus. The declaration was compiled as a result of an informal survey taken by Rudell, asking students to discuss their positive and/or negative encounters with the Student Health Center. The declaration itself contained specific student anecdotes concerning the health facility and students’ impressions of the care received through the campus health services. While admitting that the health facility does an adequate job, there is room for improvement.

See Nurse continued on page 5

Megan meets blood brother NEWS 3
Pass the O.J. Holt discusses American obsession. OPINIONS 9
Beer, beer, beer Laidlaw learns you how to brew. ARTS & LIVING 10
We won! Wildcats barely outshone fantastic Daredevils. SPORTS 14