THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, APRIL 24, 1995

WOMEN'S LAX
Rob Kosicki

Despite various difficulties throughout the season, the women’s lacrosse team pulled together Saturday, giving themselves a win over Monmouth College, 19-8. Senior Night marks their last game, Wednesday, Richardson Field, at 7 p.m. under the lights.

from page 14

16 days before the U.S. Olympic trials in 1992, Farley broke several vertebrae in his back, sidelining him for eight months. He obviously missed the trials, which was doubly bad, since tae kwon do was eliminated from the 1996 Olympics. In 1988 and ‘92, it was a demonstration sport. And in a weird progression, it returns as a full medal sport in 2000 in Sydney, Australia.

“I’ve lived since 1988 with the dream of competing for the U.S. in the Olympics,” Farley said. “Seeing the U.S. flag raised above the crowd is my dream. In that regard, while winning the national championships is great for the moment, it’s something of a step down.”

After the devastating back injury, Farley considered retiring until he got some sage advice from a friend. His friend’s wisdom: “It’s not the Olympics that makes the fight, it’s the fight that makes the Olympics.” He’s trained with that in mind ever since and would currently be well into training for next year’s Games if not for the odd decision by the International Olympic Committee to eliminate funding for the sport.

“Winning the gold medal is just a way of showing that you can do it,” Farley said. “For me, it is more of a reflection of not just myself, but a reflection of all the people I’ve trained with. A man could never win a medal alone. And a medal shows the work of everyone who’s ever helped you out with no thought of receiving any recognition for it.”

“Competing in the Olympics is the highest achievement you can reach,” he added. “Giving up so much to your nation develops patriotism which transcends to so many other things.”

Farley has one more piece of wisdom he lives by. His grandfather once told him: “Success is not measured in mere wins and losses, but in how much you give to your sport.” With that in mind, Farley has started teaching the martial arts to others and views his win in the forms contest as the biggest victory since it represents the more traditional values of the sport.

In addition, Farley sees tae kwon do as one of the most pure sports. “Tae kwon do and running are essentially the truest tests of sport,” he said. “In both, you are the only one held accountable, unlike in other sports. In track, you are racing against time, which can never be defeated. In tae kwon do, you are only fighting another man, and you can only hold yourself responsible.”

So far, Michael Farley has fulfilled that responsibility pretty well.

Dr. STEVEN M. WHITE Is Proud To ANNOUNCE THE OPENING OF His PRACTICE

WEEKDAYS, SATURDAYS & EVENINGS
North Bay MEDICAL PLAZA
9816 Sam Furr ROAD, SUITE 202
704.896.9535
HUNTERSVILLE, N.C. 28078

Wildcats head to conf. tournament
By Bryan ALLISON
Sports writer

Before heading to Charleston for the Southern Conference tournament this weekend, the Davidson baseball team took on Marshall and VMI in hopes of obtaining the third seed.

BASEBALL

But before that, Davidson travelled to Durham April 12 to face rival Duke. The Wildcats upset the Blue Devils 6-4 in a tightly contested extra inning affair. Mills Ariail pitched seven-and-a-third innings, giving up only three runs. Chris Pollard won for the ninth time this season. In the tenth, Rhett Ingerick singled, Jeff Andrews was hit by a pitch. Jeff Coker moved both runners into scoring position for the heart of the Davidson order. Gus Quattlebaum delivered with a single to drive in Ingerick. Brad Edwards followed with a double to provide some insurance for Davidson.

The Wildcats played three games against Marshall last weekend. The Wildcats swept the doubleheader Saturday, 10-9 and 4-2. In the first game, Andrews and Drew Van Culin both had three RBI while Edwards smacked a home run. Brian Penny had the game-winning RBI in the 10th. Mordecai Stolk pitched six-and-a-third innings before yielding to the bullpen. Brian Cole was the winner. In the secondGame, Pollard continued to terrorize Southern Conference batters, pitching his seventh complete game in eight conference starts. Marshall managed to salvage some of their weekend Sunday with a 10-7 victory. Edwards hit his tenth home run of the season, which ranks him third in the Conference. Van Culin and T. J. Plummer both had two hits. The earlier injury to Mark Reilly forced Davidson to make several changes. Although he was not recruited to play second base, Plummer has taken over for Reilly. “Reilly still gives us a lot of leadership from the bench. But T. J. Plummer has stepped in and done a commendable job,” coach Dick Cooke said.

Before facing VMI this weekend, Davidson played Appalachian State on Tuesday. The Wildcats put a drubbing on the Mountaineers about six weeks ago. Unfortunately, there would be no repeat this time around, as Davidson lost 9-3. The seventh inning proved to be the difference. The Wildcats had four errors in the inning and gave up seven runs.

Friday, the Wildcats hosted a Duke team bent on avenging last week’s loss. The Blue Devils gained their revenge in another extra inning showdown, but not until after Jeff Andrews hit a three-run home run in the bottom of the ninth. But Duke prevailed this time around, 13-8 in eleven innings.

Davidson’s series against VMI this weekend was pivotal. The Wildcats could have ended up as high as the third seed or as low as the sixth seed depending on their performance against the Keydets. The first game of the doubleheader did not start out well for the Wildcats. Davidson found themselves down eight runs going into the bottom of the ninth. Davidson reached down deep and exploded for ten runs to snatch a victory away from VMI, 12-10. Better known for his offensive exploits, Quattlebaum was the winner in relief.

In the nightcap, Davidson tried to repeat the late-inning dramatics of the first game. The Wildcats, down 1-0 most of the game, managed to send the seven-inning game into extra innings with a run in the bottom of the seventh. There would be no extra inning heroics this time, as the Keydets pulled away in the eighth with three runs for a 4-1 win. Pollard lost only his second game against Southern Conference competition this season. Going into the game, he had won seven of eight with an ERA of 2.15 and now has eight complete games in nine conference starts.

Davidson has a final tune-up at UNC-Greensboro Tuesday before traveling to Charleston for the Southern Conference Tournament, which starts Thursday. “It is one of the best run conference tournaments in the nation. It is a great event,” Cooke said. After losing Sunday's game 2-1, Davidson's conference record now stands at 12-12, 18-26. Seeding for the tournament remains in question.

Holland finalist at Virginia
By Matt Pilzer
Sports Editor

This week, Athletic Director Terry Holland was named one of five finalists for the same position at Virginia. Holland said he has not heard from Virginia about what the next step will be in the search, which started last winter. He has not had contact with the school to discuss the job, but believes he probably will sometime soon. Holland said he was not looking to leave Davidson and hasn’t thought about whether he would move if he was offered the job sometime in the future.

Holland is a natural candidate for the Virginia position considering his successful 16-year coaching tenure at the school, during which he took two teams to the Final Four. He was similarly a natural candidate when he came to Davidson in 1990, since he starred as a player here and later went on to coach. Under Holland, the level of Davidson’s athletics has risen across the board. One main reason for that was the Wildcats' jump to the Southern Conference in all sports but football in the early 1990s.

Sale runs April 29th - May 6th
OUTDOORS Etc
SPRING BLOW OUT SALE!!!
15-30% off all Back Packs
10% off all Paddling Accessories
15-40% off all Sleeping Bags
20-40% off close-out styles of Boots and Sandals
20% off all Tents
10% off all Climbing Gear
20% off all Climbing Shoes
Shops on the Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn