RTS & LIVING MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1995

New thriller suspects the usual
By Ed Atlee
Staff Writer

Hollywood has lost faith in the masses. How else can one explain the recent plethora of films which seem to
have been designed for cinema-goers with the intellect of Barney the Purple Behemoth? Gone by the wayside are intelligent films
which engage theater-goers enough to stay in their minds longer than it takes the end credits to roll. All too
often these days the movies studios are producing are nothing but gorgeously crafted pieces of eye-candy — expensive and fun
to look at, but ultimately as memorable as the latest episode of “Full House.”

When a film as daring as The Usual Suspects comes out, it is enough to make anyone believe in the
future of the medium. Suspects is a first-rate film — by far the best movie I’ve seen this year.

The plot revolves around a time-honored film noir set-up: a crime has been committed, leaving only one man standing at
the end. It is up to the detectives interrogating the surviving criminal to sort out the details of the incident.
From this simple frame, the screenwriter, Christopher McQuarrie, and the director, Bryan Singer, craft a film that takes all the
old conventions of the noir genre and sends them hurtling back in the viewer’s face.

Verbal Kint (played magnificently by Kevin Spacey, only one of a talented cast that includes Gabriel Byrne, Chazz Palminteri, and,
in his first solid role, Stephen “Not the Fat One” Baldwin) is the “cripple” who has survived the explosion aboard
a ship which has left more than 30 men dead. We soon find out that Kint was one of five
criminals laying siege to the ship that night. Learning how they got there is half the fun.

It soon becomes clear that a powerful criminal, Keyser Soze, is pulling the strings that make these men dance. Soze
is no ordinary criminal; he is a being of mythical strength and fury, a man whose very name is spoken
above a whisper only when death is imminent. Part of the movie’s bravura touches comes in the way the director
depicts Soze as a shadowy being without a face, a man who seems to live off of the darkness which
perpetually surrounds him.

As the five men continue on their quest in Kint’s flashback, trying to break free of Soze’s influence, they only
find themselves sinking deeper and deeper. Despite their best efforts, in the end...

See Unusual on page 13

Senior Decor
Apartment art adds flair and style to student living
By James Berry
Staff Writer

The art of interior design requires a keen eye, an open mind, and a strong back. It is an art
rarely appreciated but well practiced, and the Davidson College campus is no exception. The most potential canvas lies down the
hill at the Martin Court senior apartments where more space, more artists (with four or five to an apartment), and
more opportunity for individual expression always lead to wonderful finished products. Possibly the most amazing characteristic of this branch of
the arts is the fact that, while every carefully-placed piece of furniture conveys its own meaning and works within the
context of the remaining space, the apartment itself doubles as a living area, capturing form and function in a stark
freeze frame. It is a balance not easily achieved but, when successful, cannot be surpassed in its raw emotional power
through any other media.

I had the opportunity to tour a few of these artistic centers and take in what they had to offer.
My first stop was in the cleverly titled Building C, the abode of Katie Schwab, Jennifer Reisenleiter, Rosie Molinary, and
Lylen Ferris. Upon entering I was struck by the vibrant colors draped across every available wall space. This celebrated collection
of tapestry is the product of years of careful purchases in various parts of the world. Each was hand-picked for
its style and elegance. The collection is not limited to the strict definition of tapestry but extends into the realm
of clothing as well. The curators were kind enough to explain that much of what I saw were in fact
skirts carefully placed to disguise their utility. Even a pair of jeans was added to the collection in this fashion,
decorating the end of the hallway. Specially requested artwork was also displayed in the central living space.Secret I was fortunate
enough to learn was that each of these items came into the hands of the owners directly from the artists,
who happened to be boyfriends. In any case, it is a marvelous collection and one that should not be overlooked.

My next destination proved to be a mecca of style, intelligence, and wit made one. The artists responsible (Shannon Simmons,
Amy Burrows, Kelly Cunningham, and Katie Rogers) obviously took time in designing their masterwork. The tufted-golden-velvet-swivel-Simmons-family heirloom is only one
of three chairs in the living room. It is accompanied by a granddaddy-deep-ultramarine-high-wingback chair. The third of the chairs is
a minimalist block chair done in bone. Next to it stands another exercise in minimalism: a chrome glass-topped table that,
while simple, hints at the provocative in its curvature. The couch dominates the space and draws the room’s differences together.
Moving to the kitchen we find a sequined peacock wall hanging and a Nepalese paper lantern shade with blue tassels.
A tile mosaic serving tray serves as the table’s centerpiece. A watercolor culinary herb reference finishes off the collection with
modest elegance.

Beth Lindsey, Heather Wineberg, Kristi Cops, and Siouxz Staff took a thematic approach with their apartment. The living area houses
a futon with an unresolved southwestern pastel print mattress. Pink and white satin throw pillows with harlequin and ballerina patterns
finish off the piece nicely. We now move into the aforementioned theme. As members of Rusk, the four have done
an impressive job of displaying their eating house mascot, the cow, all over the apartment. The plates, bowls, and coffee
mugs all contain the bovine motif.

[See Apt. art on page 11]

Right Here, Right Now
The Thrilla from Manila
RenElvis visits Davidson for annual ‘50s dance
By JORDAN DEBREE & Nick PAUL
Staff Writers

The most piercing questions of the student body (e.g. Where the hell is the career service office? What time does
brunch end? and What is the meaning of life, or lifetime credit?) are all eclipsed by the one cyclopean yearning
to get inside the mind of RenElvis.

Your Faithful Reporters: I guess you must have been asked this many times before, but what’s the scoop Rene? Why
Elvis?
RE: He is the best example of the American Dream. He came from a poor family and rose to all
of this. (wild hand gestures)
YFR: Are you the only Filipino Elvis impersonator?
RE: In America, yes. There are three other Filipino Elvis impersonators that live in the Philippines. They are all my
friends.
YFR: So Rene, how does the family feel about this Elvis thing?
RE: Ask my mother.

At this point Elvis was whisked away for another photo shoot. Being the journalistic schmucks that we are, we cornered
and cross-examined his mother. Mrs. Elvis looked at us kindly. What could she tell us about this man, her son,
who wore fake sideburns and had gyrated his hips on countless dance stages like these for almost four years? Who
is the man behind the Man? She simply responded, “It’s great,” graced us with a beautiful smile and then rattled
off his tour schedule for the next few months. She mentioned a visit to California.

We just couldn’t pass this one up so we rushed over to where RenElvis was serenading a ten-year-old girl.
YFR: Have you ever considered being a Flying Elvis?
RE: No, it’s too risky. I do have several entrances in which I use a zip line to fly onto
the stage from above. Elvis and the Caped Crusader all in one ... wow.

RenElvis gave us a free copy of RenElvis, the Unauthorized Biography and showed us his CD. Nick tried to swap
his singing Elvis car deodorizer for a CD, but Elvis said he already had three of those. You can’t help
but be attracted to a man like Rene. He exudes charm and sophistication. Finally, the two of us were squeezed
into his photo session. We asked if RenElvis wouldn’t mind sitting on the Harley with the two of us on
either side. Gesturing to his crotch, he mentioned something about tight pants and the last time he straddled a chopper
and kindly declined.

The Emptys played in the 900 Room last Monday. See story on page 13.
