THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1995

So you say you were offended

A line from one of last week’s opinion articles read, “Davidson makes writers and thinkers out of all its students.” I was neither offended nor surprised at what was written in that particular article, but I was a bit disappointed. Eric Sapp, the writer of that article, was “offended” by lots of things last week, and I actually agreed with most of them. But to be offended because someone has concerns differing from your own is disappointing. Some of his disappointment came after reading “A Prayer,” written by freshman Sherika Allen two weeks ago. Granted, Davidson is not a racist school or “KKK-dominated,” but it’s not perfect either. Its reputation for providing a safe environment for its students is impeccable. As a student, Davidson forced me to grow, even though I sometimes resisted, and that has truly made me stronger. I am proud that I will forever be a part of Davidson. Sapp’s article, however, was disheartening. Allen wrote because she encountered something she did not expect. She didn’t expect to become an educator on race while she tried to gain a Davidson education. She didn’t expect the cold stares she encountered at the Outpost. She didn’t expect that she would have to fight in order not to feel alienated. She didn’t expect racism. I believe many people, black and white, male and female, liberal and conservative, miss the point of what hearing the offensive? When are we going to become more offended by injustices than we are of discouragements? When are we going to allow ourselves to see differences without looking through the lenses of fear? When are we going to learn? I, as an African-American male in this country, can actually color, because I happen to be proud of who I am. I’m tired of being reduced to something I’ve never been in order to please someone I’ve never known and who has never known me. You don’t know me because you are too busy looking past my skin color. Don’t you realize that color is a part of who I am? I graduated this past May, and when are people going to start listening for meaning instead of hearing the offensive? When are we going to start listening for meaning instead of hearing the offensive? There wasn’t a place in “A Prayer” where Allen suggested that Davidson was a racist school. Yet, Sapp turned it into “KKK-dominated.” Allen mentioned that she believed some whites are racist. Sapp answered by saying “but most of us whites don’t go put on hoods and dance around burning crosses every weekend.” When are we going to start listening for meaning instead of hearing the offensive? I can say that a person like Rush Limbaugh has lots of good ideas, even though I don’t like the way he presents himself. And Sapp, “as one of the many whites on campus who sees blacks as Americans, period — not African-Americans or Dark-Americans,” why are you so afraid of recognizing who we are? I am African-American and would rather you not look past my skin.

Rosie Molinary

Body, weight, and image: Beauty redefined

It was a long time after it started that I realized there was a problem. It was a Friday night in my senior year of high school, and I was famished. On the way to the restaurant I kept announcing how hungry I was feeling. Once our waiter arrived at our table, I ordered without looking at the menu; willing the food to get to my table quicker. I squirmed in my seat, eager to eat. The chicken fingers and fries were placed in front of me and I poured ketchup with one hand and ate with the other. And then I stopped. Two chicken fingers completed, I was no longer hungry. A friend eyed me. “Are you done?” “No, just digesting.” I sat back feeling sick, cursing myself for eating so quickly. I closed my eyes and willed my stomach to settle. “When did you eat lunch?” My friend nudged me to get a response. I kept my eyes closed and tried to figure out that answer. “Tuesday. Late lunch on Tuesday. I had plain M&Ms on Tuesday.” But I didn’t stop then. Nor did I stop when my waist measured a slim 23 inches or I weighed in at 96 pounds. I didn’t stop because I didn’t have time to stop. Eating became the last priority in my day. I wasn’t afraid of gaining weight. I was afraid of not having time. Eating was optional to me, I could control when it happened and whether or not it happened, and so I often chose to do something else that seemed more urgent. People talked. At first, guys would tell me they liked my bathing suit — cliché but true. Later, girls would say they envied my wide hips and small waist. My sister would ask “How do you do it — stay so thin?” A teacher pulled me aside and said “You have to fight this, you cannot wither away.” I just smiled and said, “I don’t think that I am fat.” And I didn’t. I never thought I was fat, but I never saw my ribs stick out or my pale skin either. It didn’t register when I found out I was 18% below ideal body weight. I saw nothing wrong with going days without a meal. I rationalized.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

that I was healthy. I ran when I wanted without a problem and played soccer with the guys whenever they called. I didn’t exercise obsessively. I didn’t look in the mirror and say, “I want to be thin,” so I must be okay. Besides, tomorrow may have less going on. Maybe I could eat then. My stop was anticlimactic. While all my friends fretted over gaining the possible “freshman 15,” I planned out how I could do it. And finally, as the summer months leading to my first year at Davidson faded away, I started to gain back the weight. It was not until I was at Davidson that I realized how very much it revolved around weight and my body image. As my hallmates talked about going home, I cringed. I kept thinking, “I’m not skinny anymore. People will talk. I don’t want to hear that I am not pretty anymore.” It was a shallow preoccupation, I tried to convince myself. A selfish disease, a needless concern. But it was real to me and has remained a constant point of contention. I cannot characterize an eating disorder. It is a personal monster that reveals itself in different ways with each person. When I try to give advice from my experiences I feel almost foolish because my battle was unique. It is, however, a phrase we hear daily. This week is Eating Disorders Awareness Week. It comes right after some alarming news that says women with any amount of fat on their body raise their risk of premature death. I encourage each one of you — as a friend, a brother, a sister, a boyfriend, a girlfriend, or a professor — to learn what you can this week to help those who cannot help themselves alone. I encourage each one of you who is grappling, as many of us do, with the issue of weight and body image to learn where it is you might help and support. It is a disease that hits strong. If we can keep it from hitting at all, perhaps beauty will be redefined.

As one of my roommates and his girlfriend walked back to our first-floor apartment, they overheard laughter and what are commonly referred to as “nigger-jokes” coming from the third floor. “How do you stop five black guys from raping a white girl?” “What is a black man with a Ph.D.?” “How many niggers does it take to screw in a light bulb?” This conversation went on between five or six soon-to-be Davidson graduates. Four days before my graduation, and I still had to put up with the ignorance of some people you say are thinkers. Davidson tries its best to create compassionate thinkers, but there has to be effort on the part of students to make that a reality. From the Sapp article: “what people really get out of college (and this is where Davidson has all the others licked) is not what the square root of 356 is but what they learn about themselves and the kind of person they end up becoming.” From what I heard four days before my Davidson graduation, I guess those Davidson guys missed the point. I wonder if they are the only ones who missed the point. I guess you miss the point and the power of these confrontational episodes because you are not there at night when we are beating our fists against the walls or cursing because we sometimes feel powerless to change the situation or crying with “salty tears that sting our eyes.” Maybe you miss the point because you are too busy hearing and not listening. And you say you feel offended.

REVOLUTIONS

Five from page 7 struggle of women for equal treatment. Often an excuse for this kind of mistake is that it was accidental. However, joking words have consequences: they hurt.

Sincerely,
Luis Peña, Associate Professor of Spanish
Lakshmanan Sabaratnam, Associate Professor of Sociology
Rosemary Lévy Zumwalt, Professor of Anthropology
Janet Harrison Shannon, Assistant Professor of Sociology
Magdalena Maiz-Peña, Assistant Professor of Spanish

Top Dogs from page 7

apply for admission to this special institution is higher than ever. And Davidson inspires the most intense loyalty one can imagine. On our well-shaded paths still walk those with a firm belief in undergraduate teaching, the liberal arts, and the processes of self-examination and betterment. On commencement day, those of us who graduate will look back on the rigorous examination of self and universe a Davidson education really is with great pride and affection. Davidson gives those who come in contact with it a feeling of belonging, community, and achievement. And those things you cannot quantify.

Sincerely,
William F.N. Gullan ‘96
Warren B. Buford ‘97

Bins from page 7

students have shown their interest and support by joining the committee. Once or twice a week recyclers go to “the shed,” where recyclables are taken from campus, and sort materials into their appropriate boxes. This is a wonderful opportunity to volunteer your time to help make recycling work for Davidson! To go to “the shed,” cross Main Street by the Health Center and continue on that road, go across the train tracks, and take a left at the stop sign. Then, take a left at the first dirt road, and “the shed” is right ahead of you to the right. Students can go there anytime to take recyclables or sort recyclables (in your oh-so-plentiful spare time). If you want to get involved with the recycling committee, call Helen Robinson, Recycling Coordinator. Remember to think before throwing things away. RECYCLE!!

Sincerely,
Jennifer Schuetz-‘96