OPINIONS. MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1995

Warren Buford

A home for internationalism

Great strides have been made over the past several years to make Davidson College a place where international education and
global awareness is not only encouraged, but also highly accessible. Each student, faculty, staff, and member from the surrounding community
has ample opportunity to learn about our world in any capacity. The work of many administrators, faculty members, and students
is why internationalism came to Davidson and now, to applaud these efforts and to solidify this concept, we must create
a centralized location that encompasses the many opportunities we have.

An International House at Davidson would be such a place. There, American students, international students, American faculty, international faculty, and
staff can congregate for a global escape from the Davidson world from which many rarely stray. The proposals, one from
the Dean Rusk Program and a similar one from the ISA, suggest that this house be home to office space
for both the Dean Rusk Program, its Student Advisory Council, and the ISA. In addition, there would be rooms for
speakers, slide shows by students, other Dean Rusk programming, and meeting spaces for faculty committees. There will be rooms for
international movies, and for other instructional purposes. There is a kitchen for cooking and eating foreign foods and a back
porch for relaxing to some Latin American tunes and catching rays from the sun that hits China, too. And there
will be a lounge inclusive of television, magazines, newspapers, and more. Returning JYA students might use the house for reunions
and the thirty students who concentrate in International Studies can use the house much like the Carolina Inn is used
for Center majors.

We need this house. Why? An International House would bring together many groups of people who might otherwise stay separate.
It would not further separate international students from mainstream Davidson like many suggest. First, the house would become mainstream, and
second, because this house would draw a significant number of people, it would alleviate pressure from those who need space,
and from those who feel the pressure to give space. Some argue that the location of the house (behind the
new Davidson library) is far removed and not adequate. To that, I agree that it is not central to Davidson
College and that moving it closer to campus would be beneficial. Our current system, where events and offices are scattered,
caters to separation. If the growth of internationalism at Davidson is any indication of the next five years, then we
will surely need both an International House and an international section of the Union.

Katie McKelvie

What’s up?

Greetings: so useful yet so stale. The usual greetings do fill uncomfortable space, but they just don’t allow a range
of reply alternatives. What can we do to encourage a more lively exchange? Let’s explore our salutation options.

A short “hi” does the job when addressing a nameless person in the Union but is a bit brusque for
friendly encounters. “Hey” does better, but it can be deadly; used alone, it leaves too much dead space. A prime
example of this is the experience of passing someone you know vaguely on the way to the post office—a short
“hey” will do for an anonymous student but not for an acquaintance. Simply, in such situations, monosyllabic greetings must be
used in conjunction with a variation on “what’s up” or “how are you.” Yet, these phrases are so boring and
overused. There is no room for originality at all. Letitia Campbell agrees that the alternatives are few. In particular, she
does not like the usual responses to the inane but popular “what’s up.” Although “not much” is the standard comeback,
it rarely matches the truth. “Nothing” remains a close second but approaches obvious lie status—especially here at Davidson. So, what
to say? Well, Letitia and you countless others who undoubtedly ponder this subject for hours on end, let’s see. “The
sky” expired in middle school. Anything else, such as “too much,” is a little odd for the random fly by.
The occasional “you, baby” leaves recipients quite uncomfortable and should be avoided as a general rule.

What about “how are you?” The replies to this query pretty much run the gamut, right? Well, it’s a little
more complicated than that, folks. As Brett Perry and Fred Campagne pointed out to me, “How are you?” opens up
Pandora’s box o’ complaints. Especially in the library, the innocent “how” question is sent back with a detailed list of
papers and tests. (Great, that’s just why I asked “how are you?”—so I could hear about all the stuff you
have to do.)do when, of course, I have absolutely no work ever, and my classes are so easy I’m thinking
about adding another one. Tell me more.) That’s enough to make a “hi” and a smile look pretty amazing. PS.
On a completely different subject, I just had to mention the one line of a conversation I overheard outside the
library the other night: “Last year I was sober and I was not a happy camper I can tell you.”
I’m not even going to touch that one. This house would not.

It can only bring together people rather than separate them. Our current system, where events and offices are scattered, caters
to separation. This house would not. Some believe that our new college union, which is still years in the making,
would offer the same benefits as this house. That is fine. If the past five years of increasing international awareness
at campus would be advantageous. But we can only answer that by moving into the house at its present location,
which is appropriate for the goals outlined. We must do that now. Then the ideas of moving closer to campus
have greater reason to be entertained. It would be a timely error to kill this idea because of arguments that
will better be answered when the house is international. This house will not just become another administrative sector. A house
like this must provide for students first; student use is what will make the house a worthwhile project. Also, it
would be a grave mistake for an international house not to recognize the needs of international students and others with
global perspectives who sometimes feel uncomfortable at Davidson. And it would not. Lastly, Davidson needs an officially recognized international house
in order to give it one more argument, perhaps the most substantive, to combat the misconception that Davidson has only
a regional sphere of interest. An International House will benefit ourselves, our peers, and the surrounding community and it will
strengthen the already strong pledge that Davidson gives towards international education. For these ends and those listed above, I believe
it is vital that this college administration respond to the vast support voiced and make the concept of an International
House a reality.

Reflections from Parent’s Weekend
By Joan Kent

As a parent of both a senior male and a freshman female, I noted with interest the panel of seven
men speaking at Parent’s Weekend. Clearly, there were no women provided to speak, although one had been listed in the
program. Coupled with the failure to announce the women’s home soccer game on Friday, the male-dominated presentation to the parents
raises some concerns as to the message sent to female students and faculty at Davidson. Also, I wonder how this
same all-male panel reflects the tone regarding Patterson Court and the social arena across Davidson College. A lack of sensitivity
to the social development of students at Davidson strikes one when listening to the administrators. Where are the co-ed activities
that provide natural and persistent places for women and men to become friends? Too few and far between, I think.
Isn’t it time to stop trying to prove Davidson College is top string and time to put more energy into
making students’ four years here healthy, academically rich, and morally and socially enhancing?

On a separate note, I would like to know what the difference between tuition costs and the estimated cost of
educating a student here (around $5,000 according to figures quoted to us) is spent on. For a parent with two
students here paying full tuition, the difference seems, to me, excessive and unfair, especially in light of my recent observation
regarding student life and gender equality issues. Don’t get me wrong, I love Davidson. I think it is a wonderful
college, and I make these notes not as an indictment but as a proposed direction to pursue. I certainly do
not mean to highlight only the negative issues of a campus that offers a superb liberal arts education and a
safe, pastoral environment to students. But for an institution with such high ambitions, I think it is important to remember
the commitment to students, a commitment that should run paramount in all administration and faculty minds.
