RIS & LIVING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1995

POSTCARDS FROM THE EDGE
We’re still colonists to them
By Mary STEPHENS
Guest Writer

I'll offer one caveat to anyone planning on traveling through England during the Fourth of July weekend: we are still,
and may always be, the colonists to them. There’s nothing quite like seeing a group of 30 bungling Davidson College
students wandering the streets of Cambridge all clad in Americana paraphernalia, one of whom is trailing a stars ‘n stripes
windsock from his collar and another who is passing out red, white, and blue cocktail napkins to everyone. And there’s
something egregiously wrong with downing large amounts of Budweiser and taking shots of Jack Daniels while in a country that
prides itself on its very warm and very flat stouts and lagers. You can dress us up, but you can’t
take us out and expect us to remain inconspicuous. Perhaps the least innocuous moment of the evening occurred when one
member of the group decided it was completely appropriate (it was the 4th) to break out in a round of
“The Star Spangled Banner” while still at the pub. Not unlike whistling Dixie at a Black Panther gathering, I imagine.
Taking a martini to an AA meeting might have been subtler. We had fun, though — more fun in six
weeks than I think most of the Brits we met had had in a lifetime of kidney pies and meat
pastries. Hot tea and scones with clotted cream doth not a party make!

Now that’s something that should probably stay in England: scones with clotted cream. Americans have enough trouble battling the lures
of Twinkies, Fritos, and Dunkin' Donuts. They would never be able to market it in the States because no American
has the patience to go through the process of actually making a proper scone, anyway. If someone could come up
with a way to vacuum pack a scone with a shelf life of 13 years and get Wal-Mart to sell
it, then maybe they would have a chance. The scone, for anyone unsure, is a sweet, puck-like leaden biscuit usually
speckled with raisins or nuts upon which one spreads heavy coats of butter (margarine will not do). Then a generous
helping of jam is applied, and mounds of the famous clotted cream (thickly whipped sweet cream not unlike the consistency
of cellulite itself) are added creating a strangely delicious surprise which has a total...

See Brits on page 12

INNO REVERENCE IN CHAPPELL
Comedian leaves the 900 Room rolling with laughter
By GEORDIE SCHIMMEL
Staff Writer

Comedian Katsy Chappell, five-time-winner of “Star Search” and actress from the Schwarzenegger film True Lies, performed in the 900 Room
last Saturday night. Her monologue included biting social commentary about appearance, gender queries into the fundamental differences between men and
women, brief excursions into various personas, and a good deal of talk about her posterior. She spoke about 5-7-9 shops,
about a larger woman’s angst at not being welcome in the smaller-size clothing stores; she spoke about renting a moped
in Hawaii, and the thin seat sliding deep into her bowels — not exactly her word; she spoke of the
grotesques at the DMV — so true, so true. She touched on just about everything: race, politics (her “lunar eclipse”
at the traffic light), aging. Even her impromptu line in the recent True Lies — “get some for me while
you’re at it.” Everything.

Actually, she dwelled very much on aging, and specifically its unpleasant effects on the human figure — her grandmother’s ever-lengthening
eyebrows, her problems with gas, and certain other, less mentionable affairs: “it’s not from me, these aren’t my secretions.” Of
course a handful of her jokes failed, like the withered, effete, why-did-she-even-attempt-this clapper joke, and one might conclude by the
silence following it that the hen rap failed as well. But her successes naturally far outnumbered her flops. Ask anyone.
Comedians are made or broken by their wits, by their ability to handle crowds, and Chappell is no exception. She
denounced those seated upstairs as freshmen — very funny — and had...No qualms about deriding anyone within the reach of
her fierce tongue. (Katherine, you were, of course, an innocent.) Maybe Chappell’s finest moment occurred when she dealt with a
sophomore whose name probably ought to go unmentioned (though we all know who “Shakeem” is anyway). Recalling the cunning, lingual
theme ribboning through her performance, she took the young man from the audience and rode the back of his head
like a pony. (It left grease stains, she complained.) She loved every minute of it. To her credit, it is
impossible to recreate Katsy Chappell’s humor on the page, and I challenge anyone to do it. She is talented, focused,
and undeniable. Also to her credit, she made one unforgivable error early in the night’s performance: comedy, she said, is
still a man’s game. Fortunately, she is wrong. Thanks to the College Union and BSC for their sponsorship of this
event.

Freshmen find Kindred spirit at Davidson
Students identify with protagonist of freshmen book
By Katie McAlister
Staff Writer

In preparation for orientation into “the Davidson experience,” the freshman class was asked, as freshman classes of old, to read
a novel during the summer. Many greeted the package containing the dreaded summer reading with groans of disgust — and
shoved it somewhere in the great abyss under the bed. But as the summer came to a screeching halt, the
incoming class of 1999 had to buckle down and read. This year’s novel is Kindred, written by Octavia Butler. The
theme of the book is quite fitting for the group of wide-eyed students — thrown into independence — to have
tucked under their belts as they enter their first semester of college.

Kindred is the story of Dana, a young black woman living in the 1970s, and her journey through time and
space to the antebellum South. Dana, like Davidson freshmen, is removed without warning from all that she has known and
placed without significant preparation into a world in which the ideals, customs, and way of life are foreign to her
eyes. In the “new” world of the past, Dana encounters Rufus Weylin, a white plantation owner who is also her
ancestor. Throughout the novel, the reader learns of Dana’s feelings of being caught between the two worlds. She no longer
feels at home in the present, and she finds eerie comfort in returning to the horrific reality of life on
a plantation.

The theme of Kindred was presented to the freshmen during orientation through large and small discussion groups as well as
through a dramatic interpretation. Sophomore Adrienne Nixon and junior Jared Govan brought Kindred to life through a presentation of two
scenes from the novel (and for those freshmen who did not find time during the summer to read the novel,
the presentation was a necessary addition to an understanding of the theme). The scenes chosen for presentation were representative of
the basic idea of the novel. Following each scene, the house lights were raised, and the freshmen were given an
opportunity to voice their feelings about the novel, and their reactions to the dramatic presentation. Through the many chances for
discussion of the novel — in small and large groups — all were afforded the chance to soak in the
opinions and interpretations of peers, upperclassmen, and faculty members.

Perhaps the scene in the novel which freshmen can best relate to comes at the close of the novel. Dana
has made her final journey through time to the antebellum South and to the plantation of her ancestors. After a
dramatic terminal confrontation with Rufus, Dana is cast back into the twenty-first century. In her own words, “I was back
at home — in my house, in my own time. But I was still caught somehow, joined to the wall
as though my arm were growing out — or growing into it.” Just as Dana, freshmen gaze out into a
new horizon, a world of new experiences and opportunities. Yet we are caught between all that we have come to
know in the past 18 years of life and all that we are destined to learn in the next four
years as members of the Davidson family.
