Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Mills Ariail toes the line with chance; Laura Jordan runs the Boston Marathon

By David Aycock
Sports Writer

Davidson football fans look back on the play of Mills Ariail and think of his staggering size and dominating presence on the defensive line.

But few supporters could have imagined the events that took place last weekend.

Before last weekend’s National Football League draft, there was speculation that Ariail would be drafted by one of the league’s 30 teams. But the draft passed without any team taking the 295-pound senior.

Almost immediately after the draft Sunday night, though, Ariail was contacted by Howard Mudd, the offensive line coach from the Seattle Seahawks. Mudd told Ariail that a team scout was on his way to Davidson from Raleigh with a free-agent contract in hand.

“By Monday morning, I had signed the contract.”

In doing so, Ariail has a chance to fulfill a dream he has had since he first played a game of touch football by playing at the highest level of the game.

“This isn’t something that’s a shot in the dark,” said Seattle's assistant director of player personnel Rick Thompson. “He's real raw, but he’s a decent athlete. We know he’s a real project.”

Ariail becomes the first Davidson player to be invited to an NFL training camp since linebacker Marcus Allen was signed by the New England Patriots in 1987.

Ariail, however, will not be playing defense for the Seahawks; the club wants to use his size and quickness on the offensive line.

A self-labeled “project,” Ariail left for Seattle for mini-camp last Thursday. At the three-day camp, which ended Sunday, Ariail had the opportunity to work on learning his new position in non-contact drills without pads.

Ariail will return to the Seahawks this summer for their full training camp, which will be in pads.

Seattle has only brought three new offensive linemen into camp, meaning that Ariail will get a lot of work almost immediately, a somewhat daunting task since the Seahawks boast two of the best defensive ends in the NFL in Pro-Bowlers Cortez Kennedy and Michael Sinclair.

See Mills on page 18

---

By MIKE GUGGENHEIMER
Sports Writer

While most of us were munching jelly beans over Easter Break, Laura Jordan was one of 10,000 runners participating in the Boston Marathon.

When Jordan ran her first marathon only months ago, she just wanted to finish.

“I ended up surprising myself,” said Jordan of her run at Kiawah Island. Not only did she win her age division with a time of three hours 25 minutes, the time was 15 minutes under the qualifying time for the Boston Marathon.

Her time put her in a good position for the start of the race. While it took some of the runners as much as 20 minutes just to reach the starting line, Jordan was there in two. The congestion of people at the start forced her to walk the first few minutes.

Then she was off running.

Jordan hit the wall at the 20-mile mark of the race where their bodies all of a sudden start to break down.

“You are feeling pain that is not normal,” says Jordan. She said for several miles one of her arms was completely asleep.

“Probably due to the excitement of being in the Boston Marathon,” Jordan said she paced herself too quickly at the beginning and ended up hitting the wall several miles too early.

Over the years Jordan has competed in longer and longer distances. “The longer the distance the better it is for me,” she says.

Someone her age is really too young to be running marathons, but her bone maturity and love of running prevent such a technicality from stopping her.

She was one of only a handful of runners her age at the Boston Marathon. It is an impressive time for the Boston Marathon next year.

Speaking of the awe-inspiring atmosphere, she said this year's race would be more amazing next year.

It may be harder to pick her out of the 10,000 participants expected next year, though. But don’t look for her near the back of the pack.

---

Golfers finish season with a strong swing

By John Rog
Sports Writer

Recently, at Forest Heights Country Club in Statesboro, Ga., the Davidson golf team hit the greens for the Southern Conference Tournament.

The team, led by low scorer Ted Tedrick, finished in fifth place. But the highlight of the tournament was the team’s overall performance.

“We sent five guys to the tournament,” said Coach Mark, “so we were very pleased.”

Led by Tedrick’s scores of 81, 76, and 78 in the three-round tournament, the team scored 33 shots better than last year.

Andy McDaniel was the second-lowest scorer, followed by Jason Carlock, Jason Lina, and Aubrey Proud.

Having five spots filled helped the Wildcats have a successful tournament, but excellent golf played an even larger role in the team’s fine showing.

“Two golfers shot low scores in the first round,” said Coach Mark. “With scores of 76 and 78, the team is very pleased with the improvement. By the end of the year, Coach Mark is even more impressed with the team’s improvement.

“We have really improved over the course of the season, and we hope to continue this improvement through next season,” he said. “If we can improve 33 shots in the conference tournament again, we will be right up there in the middle of the pack.”

With all five top spots returning, next season looks very promising. With continued improvement and consistent play, the team will close in on the top position.

The team competed over the weekend at the Cavalier Classic in Virginia. The results were not immediately available.