THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 1995

7

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
MANDY CURTIS
WILLIAM ROBERT

Associate Editors
KATHERINE HASH
ROBERT RAMSAY
RUSS TARVER

Business Manager
JOSHUA BUCHANAN

Operations Manager
MATTHEW EIRICH

News Editor
TERESA WHITE

Assistant News Editor
MEREDITH BENKE

Advertising Managers
JOANNA JOHNSON
ROB KOSICKI

Photography Editor
ANDY BOSWELL

Assistant Photography Editor
BRANDON CLARKE

Opinions Editor
JEFF KENT

Circulation Manager
TED PENICK

Arts & Living Editor
JOHN COPENHAVER

Assistant Arts & Living Editor
MATT PITZER

Sports Editor
Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Diving in, branching out

She came to Davidson with the words “medical school” ingrained in her head. That was all she had heard from her parents, from her friends, and after a while, from herself throughout high school. That was where she belonged; that was what she was supposed to do. Or so she thought.

As she began her freshman year with Bio 111, Chem 115, and Math 135, she found herself increasingly unhappy with her course work — except when she was working on projects for Studio Art, which she took to fulfill her fine arts core requirement. She spent plenty of time reviewing cellular respiration and covalent bonds for tests, but much of her study time was spent in the VAC admiring slides and perfecting her brush stroke. She completed the semester successfully in her math and sciences, both she and her parents were satisfied with her GPA, but most unpredictably, she found a love in art.

“Enough of that art business,” said Dad. “You're finally done with that requirement, aren’t you?” asked Mom.

She was done with the requirement. But she was not done with art. She continued on her med school track, but she began to balance her schedule with a healthy dose of art classes to satiate her creative urges. She found connections between art and science which inspired her in all areas of her study. She began to enjoy the sciences with renewed vigor, strengthening her aspirations to become a doctor.

The end of sophomore year rolled around, and it was time to declare a major. Much to the chagrin of Mom and Dad, she put art where biology “should” have been. She went on to graduate cum laude with a portfolio to be proud of... and a letter of acceptance into her first choice medical school.

Her experience at Davidson is not unique. Many of us complain about core requirements as interfering with our various courses of study; however, instead of saving them until the last minute like many of us do, embrace them and perhaps you will discover a passion you never thought you had. An “English” person might stumble upon astronomy as a lifetime hobby; a history major might develop a curious fascination with wild edible plants; an economics major might discover a love for theater; a math person might really like their Hindu religion class. Take advantage of Davidson as a liberal arts institution, after all, isn’t that why we’re here?

INTRODUCING
CAROLINA

LETTERS

Student aid in danger

To the editors,

I am writing to inform the Davidson community of some very dangerous legislation being addressed by Congress which will directly affect many of our students next year. On August 3, Congress passed the Education Appropriations Bill. This bill contains a package of unprecedented cuts in higher education funding. Fortunately, this bill is only an early step in a budget process which could last through November or December. There is still time to take action to save student aid, save our education, and save our future.The Education Appropriations Bill cuts $10 billion from the Stafford Student Loan program, denies Perkins Student Loans to over 157,000 students nationwide, and completely eliminates the State Student Incentive Grants program. Of these programs, the Stafford Student Loan program is the most widely used, with over 50% of users reporting family incomes of below $20,000 a year. Congress was purposefully vague about how they might cut $10 billion from Stafford Loans, but a few ideas have been kicked around in committee hearings. They might raise the loan origination fee or raise the interest rate cap, making it more expensive to borrow money in the first place. Eliminating the six-month grace periods after graduation is another option. You would have to start paying back your loans even if you haven’t found a job. Another option is including home equity in the determination of financial need. This stops students whose parents own a home from receiving Stafford Loans. Congress is expecting us to be silent on this issue. We are too apathetic to do anything about this, right? Wrong. President Clinton has declared the week of September 11-15 as Save Student Aid Week. The College Democrats are planning a voter registration campaign that will begin that week. To inform the members of Congress from North Carolina that we strongly oppose this blatant disregard of everyone’s right to an education, petitions will be available for your signature. Registering to vote will help us protect our financial aid in the long term.

Sincerely,
W. Stephen Aldridge III
Vice President, College Democrats

---

Get to know your class first

To the editors,

First of all, we would like to welcome the class of 1999 — just not to our house yet. Last week, while hosting a relatively small get-together to kick off the new school year, we discovered a few freshmen were in attendance. We realize that First Night Down seems far away, but the college made the rule for a variety of reasons. Let us refresh you. You need to get to know your class. This will not happen at an off-campus party where 99% of the people there are sophomores, juniors, and seniors. The first month of school is always demanding, and staying away from upperclass parties helps alleviate extraneous social tension. Coming to an off-campus party before First Night Down does not make you appear cool but overzealous. Also, since the off-campus policy is not clearly delineated for freshmen, it puts everyone in attendance in an awkward position. Aside from these three short weeks, you have four years to go to as many Court parties, apartment parties, and off-campus parties as you like. Be patient; your time will come.

Sincerely,
Suzanne Herring ‘97
Amber Huffman ‘97
Kristen Richardson ‘97

---

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College. The Davidsonian apologizes to those students who were unintentionally omitted from our directory last week. Fortunately, the official college directory will include all student phone numbers, dorm rooms, social affiliations, P.O. box numbers, home addresses, and all the middle names you thought no one would find out about...