THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1995

Rosie Molinary - On the street corner

Graffiti is everywhere. I walk up the streets of Roxbury, Massachusetts well aware of the gang youth staring me down, trying hard to discover who is the mysterious female in their neighborhood. Ambulances fly by me. Walls advertise the “Crips,” the “LA Posse,” and other gangs in spray paint. I cringe when I see names scratched out, signifying a person will be “knocked off.” Heads turn as I amble down the street. There are two answers to my presence. The first is a crack customer, and the second is an undercover cop. My appearance deceives the first notion; my age the second.

I learned while exploring Roxbury that the easy answers to violence are the most erroneous ones. The young men I met taught me more than I could have discovered on overzealous news broadcasts and misinformed news reports. The blame should not be placed solely on broken homes, immoral values, or poverty. The cause for the madness that plagues our cities has much more to do with self-hatred and the lack of exposure these youth receive. When you believe there is no hope — nothing outside of the nearest street corner — you allow your heart to harden in an attempt to fend off disappointment or dismay. And when your heart hardens, you lose the claim you once had to your soul. And when you lose your soul, there is no fear of losing it all.

Ernest is 19, tall and ebony. His hair stands as if it is alarmed, illustrating why he is called Chaos. He shows me his artwork proudly, and we talk about the future he wants as a rap star. I cringe, hating the fact that the only time he has ever seen a black man applauded is as an entertainer or an athlete. Beyond him, a funeral announcement lists his brother dead at 16; murdered due to association. The other young men whisper to me about the funeral, the surreal moaning that escaped from Chaos’ lips, the threats he screamed for revenge to anyone who might hear, the silence draped with sobs. His time now is filled with community service, delicately piecing together his life and rebuilding the community he helped destroy.

My most startling moment comes with Jordan. He is 20, handsome and blonde. One of the young men I had talked to earlier calls out to me: “He needs a ride.” I nod and point towards my car. We climb in and begin to ride across the city. The story that unfolds is amazing. He is a prep school kid with a trust fund whose family lost money in the recession. He talks about Hemingway and French Imperialism as we run errands and eat at a nearby Chinese restaurant. He has just sent applications off to Harvard, Columbia, Williams, Colby, Vassar, and the like. His family moved during the recession. The place, however, lent itself to crime. He is on probation for a series of crimes: armed robberies, assault with a deadly weapon, and assault with intent. He talks of getting “back to the essence.” After all he has seen, experience has almost brought him back to innocence. He talks about leaving Boston, going to college and starting afresh, outrunning his history. “Yet it always seems I create something else for me to deal with in a new environment,” he almost whispers. This time, I sense, will be different for him. He makes me laugh, and, at times, he makes me avoid the subject so I will not cry. I ask about his family only to find out his father is dead, and he hasn’t spoken to his mother in months. His rampage of crime ended his prep school, upper middle class living. He talks of “the hood” as if he has known it all his life. He is alone, and I suddenly feel as if I am his parent. He looks at me and says he thought I was older. I think to myself that I feel so much younger. For a while, we ride on in silence.

Nobody wishes to be a failure. When forces are against you, however, and it seems as if you cannot win under any circumstances, the graceful, only dignified way to lose may be on the street corner. So you choose that route so that for just one time in your life, you know what it is to have choice, and choice becomes power. And power, unfortunately, is what our society has taught us to value most.

The trauma in American cities has very little to do with where you are from in the neighborhood. It has much more to do with who you are allowed, or are expected, to evolve into as a person. When a child does not know love or hope, a dangerous thing can happen. Dreams are underestimated. The answer is not just in social programs, policemen, and jobs. It runs far deeper. The answer is a revitalization of self-worth and hope in these youth. Anger has a source; as a society we cannot forget that truth. Change will come when we individually question our beliefs and respond to paradigms we hold true.

There are triumphs in the streets. Chaos and Jordan are walking the delicate ladder to reform. They must unlearn years of what they have been taught. It takes time to heal and begin anew. I am confident, however, that they can do it. Almost all of us have the intention of some day making a difference in our communities. Good intentions, however, can do nothing unless they are forced into action. They will not save a life today or teach a young man to read or get a gun off the streets. There comes a time when we can no longer just speak. We must act. Someone must help these youth regain themselves. If they continue to believe they have nothing to lose, we as a society may just lose it all.

CONTRIBUTED BY TRIBUNE MEDIA SERVICES
PHILADELPHIA DAILY NEWSPREGNANCY IS TEENAGE, GUO CME araet Gaeeey BREAK: (7 1) 7 Sex EY DOWN! A HERE. OUGHT Was cae BY TEENAGE eyeapUAS suey ¥ SISTUCOWED Project LEEO, Leadership Education and Employment Opportunities, is a nonprofit organization that targets at-risk and gang-affiliated youth from inner-city environments and puts them through a rigorous training and survival program on Thompson’s Island in Boston Harbor.

We all stood awkwardly in front of South Station, baseball caps turned to the back of our heads and pants sagging around our legs. We eyed each other suspiciously. Ernest cracked his knuckles, Ebony stared straight ahead, and the rest of us appeared to be concerned with something or other of great (in)significance. All of us wondered what we were about to do. On the streets, our status had been built upon a reputation that we carefully cultivated for years; it was all about who had the money and power. Respect was measured in material items and the distinct lack of giving a shit about anything. Most of the values that mainstream society embraces, we scorned.

As we boarded the boat to Thompson’s Island, the Chicago group sat together, the Boston group sat together, and I stood alone somewhere in between — the white kid from Philadelphia. I had just been released from prison and figured that living on an island for two months during the summer couldn’t be that tough to handle; besides, I joined LEEO mostly because it was a way into City Year. I soon found out that participation in LEEO was a lot harder than doing time in jail. It was hard for everyone. When we first arrived, we all naturally concentrated all of our efforts on proving who we were before coming to LEEO rather than who we wanted to be after we left. Most conversations consisted primarily of war stories and most actions were designed to reflect how “ill” we could be. The first few weeks were full of fights, arguments, and shit-talking. Everyone had something to prove; a jailhouse mentality ruled the day.

On our first camping trip into the wilderness, tensions reached a boiling point. Rather than come together, we instinctively resorted to our fists. I ended up having to be evacuated to a hospital. I received eight stitches above my eye, and it was all because I felt I was being disrespected. I definitely could not let that happen! I was in a unique and often uncomfortable position of being the only white corps member — one who suffered from acute rosy-cheek syndrome. Despite all of my efforts, it seemed that I would never be considered “one of the guys.” Many times I would walk into a conversation, only to be told to leave because I wouldn’t understand; it was “a black thing.” I wanted to be accepted and to disprove all of the stereotypes, real or imagined, that I felt were going to hold me back. Part of me knew what LEEO was about and wanted all that it had to offer; the other part was only concerned with fitting in. I first had to learn to accept myself before I would be accepted by anyone else.

In those first days, we were stripped of all the comforts of our previous environments and were presented with tools which would, ideally, allow us to re-integrate ourselves into society as positive, contributing, community-oriented young men. No longer were we to have the luxury of being able to walk away or fight rather than really face up to a problem. We lived in close quarters with our peers, and if there was an unresolved issue it didn’t just magically disappear. Instead, we were forced to deal with it rationally. At LEEO we came together on a level playing field; and there was no covering up who we were, once we were there.

I don’t know exactly when people started being real. I don’t know what day it was when Ernest stopped taking twice as much food as he needed and started thinking about all of our stomachs, and I don’t know when we started perceiving staff as our friends rather than our enemies. I only know that is where we are today. By no means are we perfectly happy campers, but we are getting closer with each passing day. We have, for the most part, conquered all of the bullshit that separated us in the beginning. Hameed, the cause of my stitches, is now someone I consider a great friend, whom I seek out rather than hide from. Who we were really doesn’t have a whole lot to do with who we are today. A lot of the stress on absolute individualism is gone. Not that we are a bunch of Stepford corps members, but we can now identify ourselves as part of the whole that makes up LEEO. Our own definitions of ourselves are completely different than they were on July 10, 1994, when we entered the program. I once wanted to be known as the “Ill Caucasian.” Now I will be content with the less flashy title, “City Year corps member.” It’s hard for me to believe how much can change in two months, especially when I am in the midst of it, but I am extremely proud of myself and of all my brothers.

I will always remember our last trip together, a deep-sea fishing expedition: Tyrone let us hit lobster traps as he spaced out on the bow-watch; Jesse and Guillermo fell asleep during their anchor-watch duty; Ebony swore he could navigate us through virtually uncharted waters; Ernest in his big yellow fisherman’s hat danced around with the radio at night as we pulled into the harbor. We were content to be a dysfunctional family of sorts. For better or for worse, I love these guys!

Jordan Hall’s comments appear courtesy of Who Cares, a new magazine for young people working for positive social change. It is based in Washington, D.C. Phone #: 1-800-628-1692