THE DAVIDSONIAN

The secrets of dove hunting
By JOHN ROG
Outdoors Columnist

No matter how you choose to hunt doves, there will always be plenty of fun to go around. Some choose
to meet in large groups and take to the field in between rounds of ribs and lemonade, while others get
up at strange hours and hunt alone. Many prefer to move around and cover lots of ground, but just as
many are content to sit near the cooler and keep cool and hydrated, firing a shot every now and then.

THE GREAT OUTDOORS

One thing all dove hunters must have in common, however, is a fine shooting eye and a knack for knowing
what types of land attract doves. A field that I regularly hunted at home served as a good teaching ground
for me. For instance, I noticed that the first person to limit out every time was sitting at the intersection
of a fence row and a powerline. Why the guy at this spot limited out faster than anyone else was
a mystery to me until I actually hunted this spot one afternoon. Nearly every dove that entered the field used
a fly line along the fence row or the power line. This naturally brought almost every dove right over my
head unless it was diverted by another hunter’s errant shots.

Doves seldom fly aimlessly over open spaces with no frame of reference on the ground. Flying along forest edges, roads,
or even toward a lone tree in the middle of a field provides the dove with direction. If you can
pick out the most used flyway, get ready for some fast wingshooting.

Picking the best flyway, however, is an on-the-field adjustment. Finding the best area to hunt should be the first step
to a successful hunt. Soybean, corn, sunflower, and millet fields seem to always attract hungry doves, but one often overlooked
hot spot is on the edge of a pond or creek. Doves need water just as any other critter would,
but just any water will not do. The water must be in an open area with minimal cover around the
banks. A dove will only land if it feels safe, and large open areas provide a large field of view
for the birds to spot potential dangers before it is too late.

Finding promising areas and analyzing them to determine the best set-up spot can determine how many birds you bring down,
but being a good shot is by far the most important aspect of the hunt. Whether you are hunting at
the social gathering on opening day or whether you prefer to hunt alone, remember these tips. You might be surprised
at just how well your next hunt goes.

Amy Kanoff and Melissa Moser getting warmed up.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1995

19

Rob Kosicki

Rugby suffers 2nd straight loss
By WARREN BURFORD
Staff Writer

The rugby team capitalized on three weeks of training and played a tough, organized game against UNC-Wilmington, but the Wildcats
couldn’t get on the scoreboard. On another sopping wet Saturday, UNC-Wilmington took a 15-0 win.

RUGBY

The first try, in only the fifth minute, resulted from good back play by UNC-Wilmington. Their forwards won the ball
in the ruck, and the scrum half eventually got the ball in the back and ran straight into the try
zone. Team captain Bob Yarborough said this forced the Wildcats to increase their intensity. “We couldn’t let them score again
so we had to play hard and play smart,”he said. “For the most part, we really played well. Our forwards,
especially, played great.” Davidson’s tough defense kept UNC-Wilmington out of the try zone during the rest of the half, but
the Wildcats’ offense wasn’t keeping up. The backs were not able to run numerous plays, hurting Davidson’s chances to score.
The second half saw two trys by UNC-Wilmington. One came off a blocked kick, and the second was scored when
UNC-Wilmington recovered a loose ball near the try zone. “Our practice paid off, because I think we played well,” rugby
president Thayer Long said. “This loss is of course disappointing, but we know what it takes to be a winning
team. Next week, we will prove that to our fans.” The Wildcats close out their fall season Saturday against Western
Carolina.

Burr burns her way to all-conference
By Humes FRANKLIN
Staff Writer

Freshman Suzy Burr had herself quite a day Oct. 29 at the Southern Conference Cross-Country championships at Furman. Not only
did Burr finish sixth overall, earning all-conference honors, but she was also named conference Freshman of the Year. Burr ran
the 5-kilometer course in Greenville, S.C., in 19 minutes one second. Her sixth-place finish is the highest for a Davidson
runner. “Suzy ran really well,” women’s coach Beth Puckett said. “It’s great that she’s up there running with the best
runners in the conference as a freshman.” Overall, Davidson finished seventh out of eight teams, beating Georgia Southern. Other top
finishers for the Wildcats were Janet Aardema, Marie Grisez, and Beth Brewster.

It was a slightly disappointing day for the men’s team as Davidson placed ninth out of 10 teams. The Wildcats,
who had hoped to finish ahead of VMI and Georgia Southern, had to settle for beating only the host Paladins.
Sophomore Josh Cookson continued to lead the Wildcats, finishing 21st overall. Highlighting the race was senior Eric Collings. Having never
finished in the team’s top five, Collings finished fourth for Davidson. “I just went out and raced hard,” he said.
“I wanted to leave everything I had on the course today, and that’s what I did.” Captain Dave Foss took
second for the Wildcats, followed by Jonathan Fly, Collings, and Tripp Franklin. Both teams will have a chance to improve
on their performances on Furman’s course on Saturday during the season-ending NCAA Region II Championships.

Former North Mecklenburg star transfers
Chip Stewart, a former North Mecklenburg High star lineman and one of the strongest players in college football, recently transferred
to Davidson from Gardner-Webb. The 6-0, 297-pound lineman will be eligible next season and will have two seasons of eligibility
left. Stewart played offensive line last season. At the NFL-sponsored Invitational Camp in Indianapolis in February, Stewart bench pressed 225
pounds 46 times, topping the previous record of 37 held by Nebraska’s Brendan Stai. Stewart also holds the American record
for the teenage and junior heavyweight divisions for the bench press. He also has lifted 650 pounds in the squat
and over 500 pounds in the bench press.

“We can use both his size and strength,” football coach Tim Landis said. “We anticipate him making a solid contribution
to our program. Although the Wildcats tentatively consider him an offensive lineman, Stewart could play defense or go both ways.”

-Sports Staff

THE BENEFITS LAST A LIFETIME!
Find out more about the Peace Corps when you visit Davidson College!
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8
Attend a special information session at the...
