THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1995

Morning After pill no longer offered at Health Center
By MATTHEW ERRICO
Staff Writer

The Student Health Center no longer dispenses the Morning After pill. Health Educator Georgia Ringle calls the move a “big
change this year” and is concerned students are not aware of it. In the past, students could receive the pill
directly from the doctors who worked in the Health Center. However, the medical group which is currently staffing the Health
Center will not prescribe the medication.

Ringle explains that when the contract with Lake Norman Family Medicine group was negotiated last year, the availability of the
Morning After pill was left out. Students can receive a referral from the Health Center to see a doctor who
will prescribe the pill, but, Ringle says, students should call the morning after unprotected intercourse so an appointment can be
made. The cost is $85 for the first trip and $55 for the following visit. The medication makes the uterine
lining incompatible for the egg to implant itself. Ringle hastens to point out that this pill is not the controversial
RU486 abortion pill. The Morning After pill is most effective if taken within 72 hours of unprotected intercourse.

Ringle hopes the Health Center will begin offering the Morning After pill again in the next school year, “because this
is a service the college has provided in the past several years.”

Davidson alum speaks on conditions in El Salvador
By ADAM HICKEY
Staff Writer

“Health as reconciliation” was the motto repeated throughout the lecture held to educate listeners on conditions in El Salvador. Dr.
Lanny Smith, a 1985 Davidson graduate, spoke on his experiences in El Salvador on Wednesday night. Smith has spent the
last three years working for Doctors of the World, a French humanitarian organization which provides medical care throughout the Third
World. Smith was sponsored by Davidson’s chapter of Amnesty International and the Dean Rusk Program.

An English major who intended to become a writer, Smith traveled to Nicaragua after graduation. He was so inspired he
decided to return to Central America during and after his study at the Medical College of Georgia. Smith, who spends
much of his time working in a rural area of the country known as Morazán, spoke regarding the philosophy of
medicine he practices: Community Oriented Primary Care (COPC). In their efforts, he and his fellow doctors combine concern for national
health issues with one-on-one preventative and curative primary care.

Speaking at length on the recent history of events in El Salvador, Smith stressed that “health is a political matter.”
He hopes to engage the audience, composed of students, faculty, and community members. “I’m here looking for information,” he said.
Stating repeatedly that “you have to go where the people are,” Smith stressed a hands-on approach, yet he emphasized an
appropriate division of responsibility: “I think it’s very important the Ministry of Health do its work.” His organization often pressures
the government to do its job, which proves to be a more effective method than simply picking up the slack
for it.

Smith also stressed education for the sake of self-sufficiency. “If you create a dependency and then leave, you haven’t done
a lot of good,” he said. Audrey Edmundson, President of Davidson’s Amnesty International, stated that Smith was chosen to speak
because, “his ideals and vision coincide with those of Amnesty ...”to promote education as to human rights abuses occurring worldwide.”

SUNNY DAYS
Union patio locals — or “pat rats” — enjoy the beauty of a North Carolina fall day in their favorite
spot.

Town meetings reveal minors still dubious issue
By Kerry Brophy
Staff Writer

The Council on Academic Affairs, members of the SGA, faculty, and concerned students gathered to discuss a revised proposal for
the integration of minors into Davidson’s academic curriculum. The debate reaffirmed student support for and faculty objections to minors.

The faculty voted against the original minors proposal last spring. They were partially concerned that minors would require an implausible
amount of work, would increase parental pressure, and would compromise the college’s liberal arts curriculum. The Council on Academic Affairs,
co-chaired by Kathryn Voyer and Clair Freeman, will introduce a revised proposal to the faculty next semester, providing that the
Educational Policy Committee permits its submission.

This amended version attempts to address many of the faculty’s concerns and includes some of the following provisions: minors will
remain optional, be restricted to double majors and those in a concentration, require a 2.0 GPA, and be limited to
one minor per student.

Attending faculty expressed concern about the pressures that minors might inflict on students, especially during their last semester. Moreover, they
fear that the quality of instruction, discussion, and work might decrease in high-level classes as minors funnel into these courses.
They also contended that the ideal of a liberal arts education would be corrupted by an increased requirement of specific
courses.

Students cited numerous arguments in favor of minors. Kathryn Voyer stated, “The structure of minors might give [students] a more
broad discipline than concentrations.” Students also felt that minors will be advantageous in the job market and at graduate schools,
as they might provide for more comprehensive and competitive resumes. Many emphasized that Davidson students already take five to seven
classes in a specific area, thereby fulfilling a minor requirement.

The future of minors at Davidson remains unclear. Philosophy Chair Dr. Lance Stell, who was at the meeting, said he
is “really concerned that we may not feel comfortable bringing the proposal back to the faculty after what happened last
spring.” However, attending faculty members emphasized their willingness to consider student input regarding this issue.

INSTITUTE FOR STUDY ABROAD
BUTLER UNIVERSITY
UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES IN GREAT BRITAIN, AUSTRALIA, IRELAND, NEW ZEALAND

Fully integrated study at British, Irish, New Zealand, and Australian universities

“bring political factions together through cooperative health care.” In the middle of his speech, Smith paused, not only to take
questions.

CCRL sign-ups
Chambers, Mon-Wed

Tanning Special:
10 visits for $33.00

New addition to our store: Facials by Peggy

CONNIE AND MICHELLE:
Full Set of Nails for only $40.00 (thru February)

Located at the Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St., Cornelius
(704) 892-7030

For further information please contact:
Your Study Abroad Office on campus or the Institute for Study Abroad, Butler University, 4600 Sunset Avenue, Indianapolis, IN 46208,
Tel: 317/940-9336 or 800/858-0229 Fax: 317/940-9704
