14 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1995

Cats keep climbing, top Georgia Southern

By Daniel Motz
Staff Writer

The volleyball team continues to make major strides this season.

VOLLEYBALL

With Friday night’s 15-13, 15-6, 15-11 win over Georgia Southern, the Wildcats are looking ahead to ending the season strongly,
culminating Nov. 17-19 when Belk Arena hosts the Southern Conference tournament.

There are several elements to the Wildcats' continual improvement this season. The team is working as a unit. The players
know their roles and seldom step out of their spheres. Janet Duncan and Jamilah Sawyer are both accumulating many kills
per game. Michele Augustin still leads the conference in digs per game, and L.A. Bumgarner is chipping in aces and
a high hitting percentage.

The Wildcats started slowly Friday, falling behind quickly in the first set 6-2 and 10-6. Davidson came back to take
its first lead at 14-13 and quickly closed out the first set on the second set point. Georgia Southern seemed
to tire in the second set. The Eagles fell behind 3-0 and never recovered as the Wildcats rolled. The third
set started much the same way, as Davidson dominated. The Wildcats complemented kills and deep serves with delicate drop shots
to race off to a 12-3 lead. After an injury to Duncan, the Wildcats appeared to tire some themselves, as
the Eagles closed the gap to 14-11. But the Wildcats held on as the match ended with a Georgia Southern
shot falling wide.

Davidson hits the road for three straight matches, playing Appalachian State, East Tennessee State, and UNCC. The Wildcats return home
Nov. 11 when Marshall and James Madison visit Belk Arena.

SPORTS.

Rob Kosicki
L.A. Bumgarner and Sarah Covell construct an impenetrable wall.

Davidson hopes tournament is answer to pre-season goal

By Michael Kruse
Staff Writer

The men’s soccer team wrapped up a somewhat disappointing regular season with a 2-0 win over Marshall Sunday and a
9-10-1 mark that squashed all hopes for what was originally thought to be an attainable at-large NCAA tournament bid.

MEN’S SOCCER

But the squad nonetheless looks to fulfill its dreams this weekend, but down a slightly different path: a championship at
the Southern Conference tournament which will be at Richardson Field on Nov. 3-5. With a title, the Wildcats would earn
the right to battle the Mid-American Athletic Conference champion, likely Bowling Green, Akron, or Miami (Ohio) for a spot in
the NCAA tournament.

Davidson, which boasts a 5-1 conference mark, enters the event as the second seed, behind only rival Furman (5-1). A
Furman-Davidson showdown in Sunday’s final is anticipated, but Appalachian State (4-2) and Marshall (3-3) have the ability to upset either
of the favorites.

Playing a tough schedule, the Wildcats dropped several squeakers to nationally-ranked teams. Davidson fell to then-No. 3 Duke 2-1 after
taking a lead and dominating play for most of the game. Last Wednesday, No. 6 South Carolina eked out only
a 1-0 overtime win.

Recently though, the Wildcats have started to come together, as evidenced by their convincing 3-1 victory over Wake Forest. The
win was the first time Davidson had defeated an ACC team by more than one goal since 1964. After junior
striker Robert Clarke began the season with an

Women’s tennis dominate tourney

By Kirstyn Leuner
Staff Writer

Davidson’s women’s tennis team hosted the Davidson Invitational Tournament this past weekend. The women Wildcats used their home court advantage
to dominate tournament play throughout the entire weekend.

In addition to Davidson, the competition included UNC-Charlotte, UNC-Wilmington, and East Carolina University. The tournament was played in a Round
Robin format to ensure that all the players received equal amounts of match play. Saturday’s schedule included two singles matches
and one doubles match, while two doubles matches and one singles match were played on Sunday. The singlesCompetition brought Davidson’s
women some great wins and perfect opportunities to impress their parents. The competition was tough—if you were one of Davidson’s
opponents. Three of Davidson’s players were undefeated in singles play this weekend: Amber Bradford ‘99, Dana Casner ‘99, and Lindsay
Cohen ‘99. Amber Bradford rolled through the competition at the number two singles position, losing only five games in her
toughest match. Lindsay Cohen did some rolling of her own, as she only lost one game in the entire tournament
to teammate Amy Whitmire. No mercy. Ashley Maner ‘97, Lynne Shore ‘98, Jane Stubbs ‘96, and Creecy Chandler ‘98 also
contributed to Davidson’s dominance.

In an awesome goal-scoring flurry, others have started to consistently contribute to the offensive attack. Keith Kleeman, last week’s Southern
Conference Player of the Week, has stepped to the front, netting a hat trick against the Deacons. Coach Charlie Slagle
looks for a strong performance from the junior this weekend. “Keith Kleeman’s been playing awful well recently since I moved
him up to forward,” Slagle said. “I expect all the guys to be playing pretty well.” Other key players include
forward Phil Julien, who is just now returning with full force from an ankle injury, defender Isaac Stewart, and goalie
Alex Deegan, who owns a sparkling 1.52 goals against average. However, the Wildcats will be without Ian O’Brien, who fractured
bones in his face at South Carolina.

The road begins Friday at 2 p.m. against The Citadel, which comes in as the seventh seed with a 1-13-1
record, including 0-5 in the conference. The next round will undoubtedly offer a tougher challenge for Davidson. “Now we’ve turned
it on a little bit, and we’re playing a lot better,” Slagle said. “Our guys should not be afraid of
anybody. We played a tough schedule to prepare the guys, and I don’t think there’s anybody in the tournament we
should be overly afraid of. Hopefully, if we get in (to the NCAAs), we would be prepared.”

Write for The Davidsonian. Call -2148.

Davidson Field Hockey Team Tuned Up for Invitational
By Jason McMullan, Staff Writer

The field hockey team gained momentum for this weekend’s Deep South Field Hockey Association Tournament in a big way Sunday.

FIELD HOCKEY

The Wildcats handed Division II Indiana (Pa.) a 6-0 confidence-building shutout. “This game is what we wanted and needed,” said
head coach Betsy Pryor. “We’ve played such a hard schedule this season; it was a nice break.” The game got
off to a slow scoring start. Although the Wildcats controlled the first half, they only netted one goal before the
break. Pryor’s pep talk must have worked, because Davidson came out strong in the second half. The game was great
preparation for the weekend tournament here, since everybody had an opportunity to fine-tune their skills. The team has one more
match before the tournament starts, hosting Saint Louis University Thursday at 3:30 p.m. A win would push the team over
.500 this season. They are now 7-7-1. Saint Louis will stay through the weekend as a special non-Deep South guest
as will Davis & Elkins. The Deep South has dwindled to three teams: Davidson, Appalachian State, and Catawba. The other
schools were invited to increase the field.

Play in the single-elimination tournament begins Friday with Davis & Elkins facing Saint Louis at 2 p.m. The winner of
that game faces Appalachian State Saturday at 10:30 a.m. Davidson plays Catawba at 1 p.m. The finals will be at
1 p.m. on Sunday after the 10:30 a.m. consolation match. There will also be a club field hockey tournament Saturday
and Sunday. Area teams such as Duke and North Carolina will face off on the practice soccer fields. These games
have no bearing on the Deep South tournament.

Spring Break Early Specials!
Bahamas Party Cruise 7 Days $279! 15 Meals & 6 Parties!
Cancun & Jamaica From $359!
Panama City Room With Kitchen $119!
Key West! Daytona! Cocoa Beach!
Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/15! Hurry! 1-800-678-6386
