THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1995

Baker parking controversy: “It’s going to stay open.”

By Matthew Errico Assistant News Editor

Lee Sargent has raised the ire of many students by asking them, along with faculty and staff, to move their
cars from the Baker lot on the nights of home basketball games. Sargent threatened that if students did not move
their cars he would turn the lot into a staff lot. In reality, Sargent does not have the power to
change the status of the lot. Students have moved their cars so the lot will not be closed off to
students.

In the January 26 letter, Sargent cited “doubled” fan attendance at basketball games as the reason students have to move
their cars. He wrote, “On three occasions, we have had significant numbers of fans, many of them paid season ticket
holders, walking in the dark and through the traffic from Concord Road to our games.” In an interview Sargent said,
“I don’t feel good about older spectators having to walk in bad weather and the dark” to the games.

The difficulty, says Sargent, is that on average 150 of the available 600 parking spaces are occupied by faculty, students,
and staff. Of those 150 spaces, 50 to 70, says Sargent, are taken by students. Sargent says that for an
average crowd of 3,500 spectators there will be approximately 800 spectators’ cars which need to be parked. Therefore, Sargent considers
the 150 spots taken by students, faculty, and staff to be crucial on game nights.

In the letter Sargent asked for “good voluntary support” from the students in removing their cars. If students failed to
remove their cars, he wrote, “Our alternative is not a good one. We have permission to turn the Baker Lot
into a Staff Lot.” Student response was very cooperative, says Sargent. All but nine students had removed their cars from
the lot by five o’clock before the Marshall game, and says Sargent, “We called the nine students who had forgotten,
and they were very cooperative” in moving their cars. Because students removed their cars, Sargent does not believe it will
be necessary to turn the Baker lot into a staff lot. Sargent says, “I appreciate the responses of most of
the students.”

Although the students who park in Baker removed their cars, some are very upset about having to do so. Reflecting
this dissatisfaction with the change in policy, Independent Senator Jonathan Orr sponsored a resolution at the SGA meeting on Tuesday
night which “condemns the recent Athletic Department decision to ban students from Baker Sports Complex parking on basketball game nights.”
The resolution was approved with only one abstention.

In an interview Orr said, “I certainly sympathize with their [the operators of Baker] problem... What bothers me is [that
Sargent said] if you don’t do this we will ticket you or tow you.” Orr described Sargent’s actions as “heavy-handed.”
He also said that students park in Baker as a last resort and was insulted that students are being asked
now to inconvenience themselves further. Orr says it was appropriate for Sargent to ask students to move their cars but
not to force them to do so. He says, “Go ahead and call them up if they are parked there.
But don’t ticket them... This is parking that has always been promised to students, and it’s not fair to just
yank it away.”

Sargent says he had no intention to ticket or tow students’ cars. He wanted to rely on the students’ cooperation,
but in fact he could not ticket or tow students’ cars. Nor could Sargent himself turn Baker into a staff
lot. According to Director of Public Safety and Police Ray Thrower, only the Campus Police can authorize changing the status
of a parking lot. Says Thrower, “Lee Sargent has no authority over that lot.” Thrower confirmed that Baker is an
open parking lot 24 hours a day, and students are free to park there anytime they wish, regardless.

See Scandal on page 5

Two Kappa Sigma pledges show their spirit by choosing to participateIn some gargoyle imitation, the human gargoyles decorated the outside
of Chambers last Monday.
Rob Kosicki

Stapleton Davidson Applications due Wed.
By Curisty RIKARD
Guest writer

The Stapleton Davidson Internship is a summer program engineered to involve Davidson students in urban service work in the more
troubled areas and social agencies of Charlotte. Interns will work in conjunction with the Office of the Chaplain and assigned
churches in Charlotte. The experience is intended to provide, according to one participant, “a Christian perspective to the service work
and to allow the intern a unique opportunity to explore the relationship between Christian organizations and their social responsibilities and
attitudes toward society.”

Founded by George Donnell Davidson, Jr., a 12-year trustee of Davidson College, and his wife Anne Stapleton Davidson, the internship
was designed to provide a valuable Christian service experience. Each intern will receive a stipend of $2500 from the Stapleton
Davidson endowment.

Last summer’s interns worked for a variety of social agencies. Senior Elizabeth Fleming worked with the Family Support Center, an
organization implemented for the treatment and prevention of child abuse. Fleming describes her experience as rewarding and says, “I learned
a lot about myself and the world around me; even more importantly, now I see myself in relation to the
world and my social responsibilities to those in need.”

Senior Meg Hines worked with both Crisis Assistance Ministry as a counselor for those with personal and financial crises and
Charlotte Emergency Housing as the director of children’s activities for the children of homeless families currently residing there. “People in
inner-city Charlotte taught me a lot about service and faith,” says Hines. “This summer also gave me a new perspective
on what my life will be like after my Davidson career.”

Senior Meredith McCullough worked at the Johnston YMCA with the Success by Six program. She headed up a program for
pre-kindergartners in Piedmont Courts, a public housing project that helped children learn the basic cognitive and social skills required to
function in a school setting.

All students are invited to apply.

Record 52 students apply for tour guides
By Mec Wolff
Staff writer

According to Admissions Counselor Robert Marshall, when recent tour guide positions were offered, Davidson Ambassadors were “only looking for a
few people to fill holes in a schedule that, for the most part, was already full.” Instead, the admissions office
received an unprecedented 52 applicants, leading to a very competitive selection process.

“This is really reflective of how students perceive an important service as part of Davidson Ambassadors. Students enjoy association and
contact with prospective students — this seems to be indicative of a desire to have a say about who ultimately
comes to Davidson,” says Marshall. “I don’t want anyone to feel bad that they were not selected,” says Marshall. The
vacancies in the schedule occurred when a few tour guides from last semester chose not to continue this semester. Ten
tour guides were ultimately selected, with a few others chosen as alternates to be trained for large school group tours
and ‘Decision Davidson.’

Decision Davidson will occur on Saturday, April 8. Marshall and Admissions Counselor Sally Stone are working closely with the new
presidents of Davidson Ambassadors, Anne Miller and Missy Graves. The Admissions Office is expecting close to 200 students to attend
and will need volunteers for overnight hosting and taking prospective students to classes.

Write for news. Call Mary Clare. -2148.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS, LOOK GOOD FOR YOUR VALENTINE SWEETHEART AT...
New Age HAIR DESIGNERS
A full-service salon for men and women
DAVIDSON STUDENTS RECEIVE $1.00 OFF WITH STUDENT I.D.
Select from a line of Paul Mitchell, Matrix, Logic, Nexus, and Goldwell hairstyling products. Manicures also available.
Southlake Shopping Center
Next to Harris Teeter
Cornelius, NC
892-3067
