4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 1995

Stolpen initiates Jewish group
Small Jewish population to find unity through JSO affiliation
By Mandy Curtis
Executive Editor

A Shabbat dinner and service on September 15 at Temple Beth El in Charlotte marks the first activity of the
year hosted by the newly established Jewish Student Organization. Senior Roberta Stolpen founded the organization in an effort to unite
Jewish students at Davidson and to provide social activities with other Jewish students at colleges in the area. With the
help of College Chaplain Rob Spach and junior DeVere Kutcher, Stolpen has communicated with Queens, Pfeiffer, Belmont Abbey, CPCC, Winthrop,
Wingate, and JCSU to make this project possible.

According to Stolpen, the small Jewish population at Davidson has made it difficult to coordinate various activities as a group.
For this reason, Stolpen contacted other colleges in the area to arrange for different social engagements centered around different Jewish
holidays and events. Although the Jewish Student Organization has scheduled the activities based on Jewish events, Stolpen says all students
and faculty are invited to “participate as religiously or not religiously” as they choose.

Establishing the organization and getting four initial social activities off the ground have only been part of the process of
recognizing Judaism at Davidson. In addition, Stolpen has worked on getting a Davidson College write-up in the Hillel Guide to
Jewish Life on Campus, associated with the National Jewish Foundation. Like any college guidebook, the Hillel Guide is a guide
for prospective college students especially interested in organizations, activities, and other opportunities available for Jewish students. Davidson will appear in
the 1996 edition of the Hillel Guide.

While the percentage of Jewish students continues to increase, Stolpen hopes the write-up in the Hillel Guide will give Davidson
the coverage that might encourage more Jewish students to look at the college as a possibility. Other upcoming events sponsored
by the Jewish Student Organization will include a Break the Fast luncheon for Yom Kippur and a Hanukkah candle-lighting and
party. Stolpen encourages all students and faculty members to attend.

Faculty invites changes and welcomes new professors
By Joanna Johnson
Assistant News Editor

As Davidson welcomes 434 freshmen this year, 15 visiting professors and five regular appointments will also join the college community.

Clarissa G. Jakob, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, earned her B.S. from Presbyterian College, and her Ph.D. from the University of
South Carolina. The subject of her graduate work included protein crystallography to determine the structures of protein molecules to design
new pharmaceuticals for cancer. Jakob decided on Davidson because it “offered me a unique opportunity to do two things I
really enjoy: teach and do research at the same time.”

Mark T. Stanback, Assistant Professor of Biology, is himself a Davidson graduate and completed his Ph.D. at the University of
California, Berkeley. Stanback feels that the responsibilities of professors at Davidson “allow a balance between teaching and research.” He is
especially

Infirmary from page 1
and M.D.s was a major student complaint. But this semester, a physician will be in the Student Health Center from
1:30 until 4:30 Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. Staton points out that this is important because “a person will have the
opportunity to develop a relationship with the physicians we have.” Dr. Edward Campbell, Dr. William Johanson, and Dr. Frederick Vorwald
of Lake Norman Family Medical Center will each work one day a week,allowing students to see the same face. Students
will be able to get the doctor’s diagnosis directly rather than relying on PA referrals before seeing students. Last year’s
pool of 10 to 12 physicians averaged only 10 to 12 referrals a month, with over 3,000 student visits for
the school year. This extremely low ratio will hopefully be improved by the change. Another student complaint about the lack
of female physicians is still an issue, but female PAs will still be on duty for the comfort of women
students. Another major change comes in new student evaluations that Staton will conduct in the effort “to create a tighter
feedback loop to the people we are servicing.” This again is in response to student requests, and Staton hopes to
“increase accountability” for the actions of Student Health Center staff. Staton emphasizes that these changes, while a direct response to
student concerns, are also a result of an ongoing program already instituted to improve student health care on campus. A
blend of opportunity and concern helped to create the current changes. The college’s contract with The Davidson Clinic, former contractors
of the Student Health Center, ran out at the end of the 1994-1995 school year. “This gave us a direction,”
says Staton. “The students spoke, and we responded, investigated, and changed.” The Student Health Center took bids from different health
care facilities, and eventually reached the current agreement with Lake Norman Family Medicine Center. Staton feels that students are getting
a much improved level of health care for a lower price. But he cautions that this is not the end
of improvements to the facility, and is now filing a report in response to the student complaints brought out last
year. An independent committee conducted a study which helped to spark some of the immediate changes.

interested in vertebrate field zoology. For his doctorate, he studied Eastern Blue Birds, and since then has focused on Hornbills
in Africa and studied the relationship between bird reproductive behavior and hormone work. Ramon A. Figueroa, Assistant Professor of Spanish,
graduated with a B.S. from the University of Massachusetts, and is completing his doctorate from the University of Minnesota. Already
having taught at Davidson as a visiting professor last year greatly influenced his decision to return. “The students here are
so great, which was a great incentive to stay.” Annie Ingram, Assistant Professor of English, was a visiting professor at
Davidson last year and is now in a tenure track position. Ingram earned her Bachelor of Arts degree from Stanford,
her Masters from the Monterey Institute of International Studies, and her Ph.D. from Emory. Margaret R. McCarthy, Assistant Professor of
German, earned her B.A. from Connecticut College and is awaiting her Ph.D. from the University of Rochester.

First days at “The Big D” have been...
... my first Davidson kiss. Robert Briggs
... Seeing my parents leave. Caroline Platt
... Setting off the alarm in Belk. Kurt Davis
... the diversity of the people here. Elizabeth Wade
... playing volleyball. Janet Duncan
... nothing — and I can’t believe you’re gonna write that. Bro Krift
... DEFINITELY last night. Ellen Rockwell (aka Sugarbritches)
... being Saad’s brother. It’s also my first time in the States. Fahd Gul

Compiled by Meredith Benke and Andy Boswell

106 South Main Street
Open Mon.-Sat., 10-6
Layaway Available
896-8860

Unique Clothing and Accessories for Ladies
We also have Formals!
