THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1995 - 3

Observer article misrepresents “A slow news day”

By Jason McMULLAN
Staff Writer

Last Monday Davidson found itself on the front page of the Charlotte Observer, not for a spectacular sports feat or outstanding academic achievement, but over the religious requirements of the president, trustees, and religion professors.

Mr. Ken Garfield, Religion Editor of the Observer and author of the article, said that the story had been on his agenda to do before the Board of Trustees meets in February, and “a slow news day” brought it to print. He thinks that since the issue doesn’t just affect Davidson but colleges in general, the issue deserved front page coverage. He further adds that several letters to the editor (four on Thursday) make this a “hot topic” for the community.

However, many of the people Garfield quotes in the article feel that they were misrepresented. College Chaplain Bob Spach feels that his viewpoint is much more complex than it was depicted. Religiously fundamental or completely secular schools are stereotypically the only two options for higher education; Davidson doesn’t fit cleanly into either category, Spach says. “Given our statement of purpose, this is a place that doesn’t want to step away from faith or learning — we want to integrate the two.” He feels that Davidson provides a “different, meaningful experience” because “academics and faith are intertwined.”

Spach feels that a non-Presbyterian could make a great college president, but keeping a Presbyterian president is beneficial, since Davidson’s ties to the church are still strong. This would “provide a way to relate to the church and can nurture that positive, not traditional, relationship between the church and college.” On the other hand, Spach “doesn’t see the need” for the Christianity requirement for religious professors. The Religion Department is “academic, not indoctrination,” he stresses, so it should not be closed to anyone.

College President John Kuykendall will state his opinion in February, when the Board votes on these issues. He is a voting member of the Board of Trustees, and his vote will be one of 45.

Freshman Cintra Pollack, whose opinion Garfield uses to rebut Spach’s, is also upset. “He [Garfield] put me up against Spach when we had never really talked about the issue at all. We actually agree on a lot of things. Since this is a Presbyterian school, I actually have no problem with a Presbyterian President. He [Garfield] never asked me. He took what I said about trustees and applied it to others.” Pollack disagrees with the Christian trustees mandate, since it may one day prevent her from being on the board.

PCC responds to drunk driving report

By CHAD WELLMON
Staff Writer

In an effort to fight drunk driving at Davidson, SGA President Bill Gullan and members of the PCC convened November 19 at the PCC meeting to hear the results of the SGA-sponsored drunk driving task force report. The findings prompted a vigorous response from PCC members who hope to establish the Patterson Court’s role in the elimination of drunk driving.

PCC members criticized the weekday party limit and concluded that the limit should be dropped. Chairman Steve Shames says, “Houses should have what they want.” Currently, the two-party limit encourages students to drive off campus to area bars. Usually with no parties, Monday, Wednesday, and Thursday are “big bar nights,” says Shames.

The weekday shutoff time for kegs was also targeted as a reason for drunk driving. Now all houses must cut kegs off at midnight. With no alcohol served after midnight, many students choose to drive to a bar where they can drink for two more hours. If kegs could run until 1:30, however, students would have only thirty minutes to drink at the bars, because bars serve until 2:00 am. PCC members seem to think that few people would drive to a bar and stay for only twenty minutes.

The PCC also expressed an interest in changing the atmosphere of weekday parties. Currently, Patterson Court parties are associated with “rambling drunks and outrageous noise.” The PCC hopes to bring a more relaxed atmosphere to the Court on weekdays, more like the 21-Year-Old Night in the Union where students just hang out while drinking a few beers. Shames says that pushing BYO parties on weekdays could help establish such a relaxed atmosphere for weekday parties. BYO parties would not cost houses anything and are adamantly encouraged by national fraternities. PCC members noted that ending the weekday limit on parties could also encourage the relaxed atmosphere. The changeshoped for by the current PCC, in response to the drunk driving report, will not be addressed immediately. The current PCC will be replaced by the junior members in January. The new PCC will have the opportunity to make an immediate impact on Patterson Court and drunk driving at Davidson.

Habitat from page 2
closing words. The greatest success of the project is the money that has been raised. At the time of the rally, over $16,000 had been contributed to the Habitat House fund. Senior and Fundraising Committee Chair Amy Hawfield considers this a “tremendous success.” Senior Smita Donthamsetty, President of Reach Out and Co-chair of the Habitat House Committee, enjoyed the rally for another reason: “When I was sitting there before I was about to speak, I looked down on the bleachers and saw all the people there. My eyes welled up with tears because I was so amazed that one event could bring together so many different people, and that’s our whole hope for the project.”

Campus hosts Gift Fair
By Laura Jones
Guest Writer

On Sunday, December 10, from 2 to 4 p.m., you have an opportunity to do all your holiday shopping without leaving campus. Because it has been so well received in the past two years, Davidson will be hosting our third annual Alternative Gift Market where you can make donations to various global charities for those special people on your shopping list as an alternative to the gifts that you could buy at the mall. The Alternative Gift Fair will be held in conjunction with a community-wide holiday event sponsored by the Union. There will be Christmas music, decorations, cookies, cider, Santa, and the unique chance to purchase a water buffalo for the one most near and dear to your heart this holiday season.

The Chaplain’s Office, the Chapel Committee, and a host of other student organizations, including many of the houses of Patterson Court, the Women’s Issues Committee, various campus religious organizations, and Ben and Jerry’s are sponsoring the Alternative Gift Market with the theme, “Give the World a Christmas Present,” a perfect way to celebrate the tradition of gift-giving in a fresh and meaningful way. This year we have the bonus of being able to offer a free Ben and Jerry’s calendar full of valuable coupons to all those who choose to buy gifts from the Alternative Gift Market. Chickens and egg production in Egypt, medical supplies for hospitals in Bosnia, rain forest wetlands in Brazil, potable water in Burundi, and adult literacy training in Appalachia, USA are among the many gifts available for “purchase.” For a better idea of the gifts available, check out the bulletin board in Chambers. Also at the gift market will be representatives from several independent charities seeking holiday donations, including the Davidson Habitat House. As shoppers purchase gifts, they will receive cards with their gifts inscribed and a description of the charity on an insert ready to mail or deliver as alternative gifts for family and friends. Donors, card recipients, and people in need all around the world will receive joy as a result of these purchases.

Staff Appreciation Day, Tuesday, December 5
Commons (Food Services):
Sugenia Wells - Dining Supervisor, Rebecca Braddock - Dining Supervisor, Shelton Forney - Supervisor Dining Custodians, Wendy Gaffney - Food Preparer/Server, Dorothy Reid - Food Preparer/Server, Lula McNeely - Food Preparer/Server, Ruby Mann - Food Preparer/Server, Glady Bowman - Cashier, Patricia Belk - Cashier, William Graham - Custodian, Carl Lennon - Custodian, Wanda Braddock - Custodian, Westly Smith - Custodian, Roy Wylie - Custodian, Helen Keller - Custodian, Amelia McConnell - Custodian, Kineth Alexander - Custodian, Sandra Reid - Custodian, Lennie Caldwell - Custodian, Charles Palmer - Custodian, William Kelley - Head Production Cook, Lisa Risk - First Cook, Annie Rivens - First Cook, Marjorie Torrence - First Cook, Pamella Kennedy - Second Cook, Hers White - Second Cook, Richard Graham - Second Cook, Jean Little - Second Cook, Rosalie Shaw - Second Cook, Rickey Forney - Second Cook, Robert Sherrill - Second Cook, Paul Lewis - Stockroom Keeper

CANCEL YOUR LIBRARY FINES
“Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus!” From November 27th until December 20th you can pay for your Library fines and IOUs with cans of food which will be given to the needy in our area.
HOW: One can of food will cover up to $1.00 of overdue fines or IOUs. (E.G.--for five cans of food, you can pay for $4.50 in fines.)
WHERE: Library Circulation Desk

New Age HAIR DESIGNERS
A full service salon for men and women
Come in for any of our many services: cuts, perms, hair-coloring, manicures, pedicures. Select from a line of Paul Mitchell, Matrix, Logic, Nexxus, Sebastian, Abba, and Goldwell hairstyling products.
Southlake Shopping Center
Next to Harris Teeter
Cornelius, NC
892-3067
*Christmas Special*
10% off all cuts and styles with this coupon.