6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS. MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1995

Week in Washington:
House Republicans unveil spending cuts in budget
By ANDREA SHORT
Washington Week correspondent

House Republicans announced on Wednesday their first substantial proposals to reduce government spending. Fifty days after the Republicans stormed Capitol
Hill with their Contract with America, House Republicans unveiled their first detailed budget cuts. A form of mid-year review, the
cuts, known as recissions, are an in-progress review of the current budget year. Republicans are challenging President Clinton’s $1.1 billion
cuts with a plan that would shave government spending by $10-15 billion.

Five House committees announced their recommendations last week, and more cuts are expected when the remaining committees finish their deliberations.
Programs and agencies affected by the Republicans’ proposals would include: certain education programs, Head Start, job training, and aid to
homeless children and veterans. Although the Republicans’ suggestions would hit social programs the hardest, they also targeted aid to newly
independent Soviet republics and the United Nations peacekeeping force.

The most drastic measures proposed, however, would eliminate certain education programs entirely. Programs that provide immigrants with high school equivalency
degrees and financial aid for college, education for homeless youth, and the drug-free schools initiatives would be discarded. One of
the most controversial changes demanded by Republicans involves the school lunch program. Educational and Economic Opportunities Chairman Bill Gooding of
Pennsylvania is expected to announce his committee’s recommendation to end federally supervised school lunch programs in favor of a block
grant to the states.

Under the Republican plan, federally subsidized school lunches and the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC),
would be collapsed into one block grant. The states would then decide how to allocate the funding; the only mandate
would state that 80 percent of the monies benefit impoverished children’s nutrition. The committee’s ranking Democrat, William Clay of Missouri,
however, believes this change could “potentially starve hundreds of thousands of children and imperil the health of their mothers.” The
school lunch program alone serves nutritionally sound breakfasts and lunches to more than 25 million children daily. Under the block
grant, the federal government would not require free lunch programs or ensure any nutrition standards.

Representative Gooding, traditionally a strong advocate of the school lunch program, defended the new plan, saying, “by cutting out layers
of regulations and paperwork, and by allowing states far more flexibility,” the program could be run more efficiently. Clear progress
in cutting the federal budget is paramount to establishing Republican credibility. A major tenet of the Contract with America, spending
cuts form the backbone of the GOP’s promise to lower taxes. Most political analysts predict that the Republican majority will
be enough to push the recissions through the House easily. Surviving the Senate will prove a more difficult fight, but
success is also expected there. If neither house makes a substantial change in the drastic education cuts, however, President Clinton
seems likely to veto the legislation.

Sources include: The February 23 issue of The New York Times.

Dean Rusk
Economy, Chechnya, health tarnish
By GRAHAM Ernst
Dean Rusk adjunct reporter

In his annual address on the state of the nation last week, Russian President Boris Yeltsin presented a strong defense
for invading the breakaway republic of Chechnya and promised that political and economic reforms would continue as planned. However, Yeltsin
faces problems that reach deep into his political policies and personal life.

First, the Russian economy is struggling to compete in international markets with an extremely weak ruble and relentless inflation. Yeltsin’s
horrendous approval rating of 6 percent is often attributed to the floundering economy. Second, the civil war in Chechnya has
strained Yeltsin’s relations with his own military and with Western nations. During his address to Parliament, Yeltsin called for “resolute
measures” to reform the military. Defense Minister Pavel Grachev and Yeltsin have been at odds since the Chechen invasion began
resulting in large numbers of Russian soldier casualties.

While the United States and other NATO countries urge Yeltsin to negotiate a peace settlement in Chechnya, a report released
by the President’s Commission on Human Rights this week said that 24,000 Chechen civilians have died in the two-month conflict.War
with government forces. Unfortunately, many speculate that accurate figures of civilian casualties easily exceed 30,000. Finally, Boris Yeltsin’s alcohol abuse
and health have been scrutinized since he was filmed exiting his limousine staggering, clinging onto aides for support, and slurring
his speech. This is not the first occasion where Yeltsin has arrived intoxicated to a function. Last year he slept
through a meeting with Irish government officials because he had celebrated a birthday party on his plane. There are reports
that Yeltsin’s alcoholism has gotten worse recently as he has removed aides who attempt to moderate his consumption. Yeltsin has
chronic back problems and cirrhosis of the liver.

Even though the next presidential election is not scheduled until 1996, Alexander Rutskoi and Vladimir Zhirinovsky are campaigning to position
themselves as front runners should Yeltsin be unable to serve out his term. Yeltsin’s state of the nation address was
significant in that he assured the world that he is in good health for the time being, and that parliamentary
elections will take place in December of 1995 as scheduled. Furthermore, he promised not to impose on the freedom of
the press despite the sketchy reports that leaked out of Chechnya in the opening days of the war. Yeltsin stands
on shaky ground in Russia. He is running out of allies and responds by reverting to an inner circle of
suspect advisors. As a result, it will be extremely important for the world to monitor developments in Russia in the
next year with concern and vigilance.

Sources include 2-17-95 issue of Washington Post, 2-22-95 issue of New York Times, 1-14-95, 4-9-94, 1-7-95, and 10-8-94 issues of
The Economist, 1-9-95 and 1-23-95 issue of U.S. News and World Report, 1-23-95 issue of Time, 1-16-95 issue of Business
Week, 4-4-94 issue of Newsweek.

NOTES

SC attorney general supports battle flag

Columbia, SC— The confederate battle flag should remain atop the South Carolina
