THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1995

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
MANDY CURTIS
JOHN COPENHAVER

Arts & Living Editor
KATHERINE HASH

Business Manager
ROBERT RAMSAY

Asst. Arts & Living Editor
TERESA WHITE

Operations Manager
JOSHUA BUCHANAN

Associate Editors
WILLIAM ROBERT
RUSS TARVER

Sports Editor
MATT PITZER

Advertising Managers
MEREDITH BENKE
ANDY BOSWELL

News Editor
MATTHEW EIRICH

Photography Editor
ROB KOSICKI

Circulation Manager
TED PENICK

Assistant News Editor
JOANNA JOHNSON

Assistant Photography Editor
BRANDON CLARKE

Editorial Cartoonist
CHRIS MOORE

Opinions Editor
JEFF KENT

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

---

Twenty-one. We’re legal.

The U.S. News and World Report yearly college ranking is not the end-all be-all evaluation of college quality. We said
it was last year, but that was because we were eighth. Now that we’re a mature twenty-one we can convince
ourselves that nothing has changed — we can utilize the convenient and inherent self-deception of adulthood.

“Davidson is the same school it was a year ago,” we clamor. “Those fools at U.S. News don’t know what
they’re talking about. They can’t qualify the Davidson experience!” Look at what John Kelton said: “This doesn’t reflect any negative
change in the quality of a Davidson education.” And Bob Williams believes we dropped because so many people are coming
here and there aren’t enough full-time professors to cover the overflow. We're great and people love us!

While the ranking does taint the perception of Davidson amongst the masses, it does not necessarily reflect a real backslide.
However, the ratings do give us motivation to focus on what U.S. News perceives as our problem areas. Like money.
One of the categories in which we fell dramatically is ‘Financial Resources.” This is odd, considering the five million dollar
gift we received from Mr. Baker two years ago, and the five thousand dollar increase (at least) of Davidson’s price
tag over the last four years. Where does that money go? We do not question the wise use of funds
at this college, but the violent tuition increases do force us to wonder how our resources could be less “rankable”
than last year. Davidson still meets more of its need-based financial aid than most other comparable schools. But other than
that, we do not know exactly what the money at this place is used for. The self-study, hopefully, will clue
us in to some of the financial workings of this institution that we have a right to know about.

In some areas, though, U.S. News shows its intrinsic fallibility. For example, what’s this “Faculty Resources” stuff? True, because of
the size of the past two classes, more visiting professors are employed here, but surely Mark Csikszentmihalyi has as much
to teach us as Trent Foley. U.S. News may be looking closely, but it doesn’t sit in the classroom. It
doesn’t know the faculty like we do. It just looks at the numbers. And so, seemingly, we have an average
faculty. Seemingly.

Another example of the ranking’s unreliability is that it does not consider the appropriateness of the college for its students.
Unless the magazine conducted interviews with a majority of students, how could it know whether a student here would be
happier at Swarthmore? Yet, the ranking implies that Davidson students would rather attend some place like Amherst or Bryn Mawr.
Truth is, most of us could be happy in a number of places. But we chose this college for a
reason, the least of which was a bloody magazine article.

Earlier, we were clamoring that one cannot qualify the Davidson experience. Really, all this ranking crap comes down to is
experience versus perception; does the perception equal the reality? In the case of financial resources, perhaps. In the case of
faculty resources, no way. So what if we’re twenty-one this year? Has anything really changed? Isn’t it possible we’ll be
fourth next year, or thirtieth? Isn’t it possible the perception of Davidson...Can change while the experience remains constant? Yes. The
ranking is a tool. It shows us our perceptual weak points; points we definitely can work on; points we already
knew existed. But it is not the Bible, or the Koran, or Jerry Garcia. Not something with a cult following.
It is an opinion, and we have ours.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices
are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or
commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTERS

The power to speak

To the editors,

When I was a freshman and visited my first SGA meeting, I found speaking to the senate very intimidating. This
should not be so. That is why, in the last SGA meeting, I proposed a change that was both accepted
and embraced by all its members. This change benefits all students. Now, before the close of each meeting, there is
a time in which all nonsenators may address the senate. Whatever one wishes to say is appropriate. Visitors may wish
to comment on meeting topics, share their own personal concerns, or even just say “hello!” This power to speak is
not a new thing. You have always had it. I, along with the other senators, urge you to use this
power. Talk with us, both in and out of meetings. With your ideas, we, together with the faculty, staff, and
trustees, can create in Davidson an even better college environment. The SGA is not a secret organization. All of you
are always invited to attend meetings that are held at 9:00 p.m., Tuesdays in the Union Conference Room. Come see
us and work with us. Our job is to serve you.

Sincerely,
Matthew Hobbie ‘98

Leaner, meaner Bill

To the editors,

Katie McKelvie’s sly reference to my weight in her editorial last week, while humorous, has no basis in fact. Since
returning to Davidson, I have dropped three pounds, two ounces, due mostly to the walk from the senior apartments and
a heated Nintendo Golf rivalry with two of my roommates. As to the allegation that I make a big splash,
Ms. McKelvie is ignorant of my inability to dive. In fact, the last time I actually swam (rather than waded)
was during the swim test, when I closed my eyes during the backstroke and hit the side wall. I suggest
Ms. McKelvie take a look at the new Bill Gullan (I sit next to her in colloquium). She will see
not the ridiculous ranger of rotundity to which she is accustomed but a lean, mean, dancing machine ready for anything.

Appalled,
Bill Gullan '96

P.S. If anyone drives by me please pick me up.

Jungle golf course

To the editors,

What’s the story with Covington Golf Course? The famed three-hole course on campus is in terrible condition. I’m not asking
that it look like St. Andrew’s, but the grass on the greens looks like a Chia Pet. The course is
simply unplayable. I understand if we can no longer keep the course up, but if that’s the case then stop
doing a lackadaisical maintenance job and simply use the land for something else. Ideally, the greens and fairways could be
kept in decent shape so the students could take advantage of the course. I love to play there for an
hour or so on Saturday afternoons, but not when I need a machete to clear a way to the hole.
Basically, either do the job right, or don’t do it at all.

Sincerely,
Jack Slosson '96

The Union will now be providing a telephone information service to keep us on top of all Union activities. It's
called the Union Hotline. Dial 2579-*-*-52144.
