THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcats reach new heights

By WILL BRADSHAW
Staff Writer

The women’s basketball team never trailed in two home games this week, running past Radford, which played in last year’s
NCAA tournament, 88-77 on Wednesday, and thumping Barber-Scotia 85-39 Saturday.

WOMEN’S BASKETBALL

With Saturday’s win, which was also the largest margin of victory in program history, the Wildcats now have five wins
this season, more than all of last year.

“The first half [of the Radford game] we may have played the best half of women’s basketball ever played here,”
coach John Filar said. “[Radford] is an awfully strong team, and we played so intense offensively and defensively. We had
some people hit some big shots, and our transition game really put us out in the lead.”

The transition game proved to be the difference, as Davidson outscored Radford 27-12 in points off turnovers and shot twice
as many lay-ups, helping the Wildcats to 44 percent shooting from the field, while Radford shot 32 percent.

“I’m really proud of the team,” said Kerry Brown, the freshman star who tallied 20 points, 7 rebounds, 8 assists,
1 block, 2 steals, and only 1 turnover against the Highlanders. “We really stepped up to the competition, and we
have learned to play as a team. I’m really proud of us.”

The Wildcats jumped out to a 6-point lead to start the game, all 6 points coming on Brown jumpers, and
stretched that to a 15-2 lead, which was their biggest advantage in the first half. Radford pulled back to within
3 points several times, but the Wildcats ended the half with an 11-2 spurt, spearheaded by 4 Brown assists (3
to Jenny Vanlerberghe, a sophomore center) and a jumper by Brown, to take a 44-32 lead into the locker room.

The second half was much of the same, as Davidson opened with a 10-2 run this time led by junior
guard Carolyn Kirsch’s 8 points and 1 assist. Radford chipped away at the 54-34 advantage Davidson had built, closing it
to 10 once and 11 five times, but the Wildcats had an answer for every Highlanders run.

“This is the first time we’ve been in an end-of-a-game situation like this against a big team. It is such
a confidence boost,” Filar said. “We kept their runs at 4 or 5 [points], and then pulled it back up.”

Kirsch was named the Wildcats player of the game with 20 points, 11 rebounds, 2 assists, 2 blocks, and 5
steals. Also scoring in double figures were Jessica Montrella, a freshman forward, with 10 and 8 rebounds, and Vanlerberghe with
12.

“We were sixth in the preseason Southern conference coaches poll, and the coaches had no reason to vote us higher,”
Kirsch said. “If they could have seen us play tonight their jaws would have dropped to the floor. We are
going to surprise people. We can be in the top 3, and I think we can win [the conference].”

One problem the Wildcats had against Radford was rebounding. The Highlanders outrebounded Davidson 63-47, and enjoyed a 29-15 advantage on
the offensive glass, giving them a 29-15 edge in second chance points which kept the game as close as it
was.

“Rebounding has been a problem,” Kirsch said. “We work on boxing out every day in practice, but in the games
we just turn and go to the basket. I’m more at fault probably than anyone on the team, but if
we can learn to box out better and go tenaciously to the boards it will save us from a lot
of close games.”

Against Barber-Scotia, which plays in the NAIA, the Wildcats ran out to a 25-6 lead and never looked back, taking
a 40-18 advantage at the break and then cruising to the win.

Montrella led all scorers with 15 points to go with 13 rebounds, and Kirsch added 14, while Brown tacked on
10. Monica Winter had an excellent day at the point collecting 6 assists while committing no turnovers.

Kristen Ferrucci, a senior forward, and Jamie Brown, a freshman guard and Kerry’s twin sister, did not play in either
game because of injuries. Jamie has been out since November 14 with a broken bone, while Ferrucci dislocated her kneecap
last weekend. Filar hopes they will both return by January 1.

Cheerleaders at Saturday’s basketball game.

Brandon Clarke

GIVE PLASMA FOR SANTA.

Valid ID with Social Security number required.
M-Th 6:30am-9:00pm F 6:30am-8:00pm Sa 7:30am-6:00pm Su 7:30am-4:30pm
