OPINIONS | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1995

Rosie Molinary | ~

What is home?

What is “home?” This question forced itself into dialogue during this year’s orientation book discussion. I left with it still in my head, the skeleton of an answer forming itself softly in my mind.

Perhaps, before Davidson, the answer was very concrete. It was the simple house in Columbia where Spanish flew through the air, and the animals were as hyperactive as me. Then I left for college. My freshman year book discussion was a painful attempt at some conversation, some intelligent dialogue. We sat around, late Friday night, forcing ideas into sentences. Never feeling shy and hating the awkward quiet, I talked incessantly about nothing that I remember now. And then it happened. Nick Kallan looked me dead in the face and said, “I heard about you. Your mom said you talked a lot. She said I was bound to meet you because you are so loud and you talk so much.” My “home” switched from a structure to my family, and I immediately felt betrayed.

The theory of “home” evolved all of first semester. The first time I went home, I walked from room to room, I took in every change—things as simple as a new microwave stand, a new living room set up. Change. And everything continued to change—as it should when you are evolving. At Christmas, I went out during the day with old friends and talked to new friends on the phone at night. Sometimes it felt like I had different faces, carefully put in place for each encounter. Friends from home complained about others who had “changed.” I fought for their right to evolve, to adapt to their environment and become who they must. That Christmas I offended my mother with my brave declaration that I was going “home” in a few weeks and that I was only visiting my “home home” (the word my freshmen hall developed to mean where you were from prior to Davidson). She stared back at me and walked out of the room, probably thinking, “this too shall pass.”

I spent that summer in Connecticut putting children on horseback and teaching them to swim. And it, too, became my home. It became my home because I was allowed to talk in my Southern drawl, dance like a wild woman, play like a child and be serious when necessary. It became my “home” because I allowed those people to bring out what I felt was the best in me. Suddenly, home became much more than a concrete building.

At Davidson, in the fall of my sophomore year, home was the green chairs waiting in my small down-the-hill room. Rejects from the “Sanford and Son” era, they housed my roommate and me through every moment. Home became the cars we took on road trips and the restaurants we crashed at four in the morning in the midst of some educational or personal crisis. Home became the water tower on a dark, brave night and the lawn of our residence halls in the brilliant sunshine. For some of us, home became our athletic fields or performance halls. For all of us, it has become some distinct place, some distinct face and some distinct time.

Perhaps, then, home is an essence. The essence that brings out the very best in you. The essence that allows you to evolve, change, redirect and still be you.

For those of you just beginning—or still looking—I hope that Davidson becomes your home. And for those of us who are winding down our time here, I hope we all remember that with “home” comes an obligation. A sense of responsibility in doing what is right, in providing the proper care and upkeep, in serving as we have been served. This truth is for our “homes” that are places, that are moments, and most importantly, that are people.

From the Peanut Gallery

Dominick Talvacchio: these our days

“The only thing constant is change.” This phrase has become a cliché whose mildly paradoxical implications seem to escape us all too often. Perhaps it is not that we are generally unaware of the change taking place around us but that we are unaware of our involvement in it, blinded in part by the mind-closing routineness of daily living, the streamlined and systematic way of life we have found for...ourselves. We are college men and women, allegedly at the peak of our fervor, our excitability, our political passion, and so forth. We are impressionable, relatively open-minded, and young. Yet we are already beginning as a generation to accept the growing impression that Davidson College, the United States, and the world are all stagnant places. Still, we go about business as usual. What’s more scary is that this outlook seems to be self-productive; its acceptance promotes stagnancy itself. So we are not in Paris during the French Revolution, or Jerusalem following Christ around, or in New York in 1969. Jean-Paul Sartre, in a digression from the pessimism typified by his existentialism, wrote that “there may have been greater times, but this is not ours.” And ours is not his either. It is ours: We own it, in a sense. We are to make our time what it will become, and for what it will forever be known. The implication of this, believe me, is as reassuring as it is frightening. It is frightening because, to freshmen, this is a role they may not have expected to play, and to the rest of us because it is a role we have been playing for one, two, three, or more years and haven’t been aware of it. It is reassuring, though, because if understood deeply, it can lead to a sense of purpose in your four years at this institution of higher learning. Like all others, this purpose can only be fulfilled if grasped at its core. So find your niche before you’re history.

Stan Boyd

Beer past midnight! What is the deal with this new alcohol policy? For the most part, parties continue to function as they did last year, but a few minor differences have gotten under my and many of my fellow upperclassmen’s skin. I understand the need for most of the changes, and I think the new system will eventually work itself out smoothly. The wristbands are an annoying but clever and necessary solution to the liability problem. However, a few changes have proven irritating. In particular, a change instituted this year is the reduced hours of serving on weekdays. Why, if North Carolina State Law permits the distribution of beer until two a.m., do Davidson parties cut off the taps at twelve, midnight? Is this some lame attempt by the administration to make us go to bed earlier? Do professors think bleary-eyed students in morning classes will disappear if the beer ceases to flow at midnight? After observing the situation in the two weekday parties that have already occurred, I can tell you this is not the case. No one at this college even shows up at a court party until at least eleven o’clock. When the beer stops at twelve, during the height of the celebration, very few people will simply toss out their Solo cup and stroll home to bed. From what I’ve seen, large groups of ambitious revelers are always creative enough to uncover an alternate location and source for partying. Many decide that the midnight limit on beer justifies a trip out to The Pub, or one of the area's many other fine alcohol-serving establishments. Many simply take the party back to their dorms and apartments, waking up others and escaping the limits of the court. When people want to blow off steam they will find a way. Don’t kid yourself by thinking a gradually receding limit on beer will significantly change anything. When Davidson accepts a new class each year the prospective students go through a rigorous application process designed to determine not only the students’ academic merit but their personality, moral character, and responsibility level. Why not let the students exercise the judgment and intelligence that each and every one invariably possesses. Davidson kids are smart, and they are generally ambitious. People here know when they can and cannot spare the time to go to a party. Limiting weekday parties and strangling the beer flow at midnight are administrative insults to the responsibility and common sense of every Davidson student. I ask the men and women in charge not to be patronizing but to realize that, though we are young and energetic, we are also wise enough to handle ourselves. Give us some credit.