THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1995 11

By ROBERT RAMSAY
Executive Editor

The Davidson College Department of Theater and Speech’s production of The Heidi Chronicles by Wendy Wasserstein ended its six-performance run
yesterday, and Ann Marie Costa can relax. Chronicles was her directorial debut at Davidson, and as a new professor, she
surely felt the pressure of expected excellence. Well, Professor Costa, it was good.

The Heidi Chronicles tells the story of a woman named Heidi Holland and her 25-year search for happiness and how
that definition of happiness changes as she and the times change. More than anything else, the music had a hand
in shaping the experience. Before the show began, Carole King was belting out “I Feel the Earth Move,” which cunningly
reflected themes in the play. Aretha Franklin’s “Respect” played behind a 1970s women’s support group meeting. The characters paid respects
to John Lennon in a 1980s scene with “Imagine” on the hi-fi. And Heidi sung Sam Cooke’s “You Send Me”
to her infant daughter in 1989, just as her lover Scoop had sung it to her at his wedding in
1977. While the performances were great, it is the music that lingers in my mind.

Kathryn Schlee’s costume design was subtle—never did the actors’ clothes scream out the era; rather, the costumes allowed the script
and the actors to establish the time. The set, as well, was not reflective of any certain decade. Its orange-peach
tones and angular construction gave the cast a neutral area that they could manipulate as needed. Set designer Joe Gardner
did surprise us with a revolving stage, though. (Perhaps he also could have designed a way to conceal the stage
hands manually rotating it.) Ronnie Higdon’s lighting was simple yet effective, and again allowed the cast and the script to
craft something of their own.

What they crafted was a show Davidson is not used to: a quiet exploration of humanity. No French bourgeois, no
cracked-up bishops, no buried children, no nudity. Just people like you and me who feel like their “world gets narrower
and narrower,” as one character says. The cast did a fine job of filling this narrow space, and never let
the normalcy of the script deprive it of energy.

As Heidi, junior Amanda Davis was charmingly stand-offish, always remaining somewhat bitchy without losing her heart, and Kudos to Costa
for bringing subtlety to Hodson Hall. Heidi brings a gift to her foil character, the wife of her first love,
Scoop. Rob Kosicki always allowed the other characters to upstage her when they should have. A lesser actress would have
stolen the show and its meaning altogether.

See Debut on page 12

School Daze are here: Drama gives insight into Davidson's African-American community

Brandon Clarke

From L to R: Jason Burt, Ike Bailey, Rhea Chase, Cara Finley, Karona Sanders, Renu Bhatt, Adrianne Nixon, Mecie Beachem,
Lummie Allen. Not shown: Marcus Williams.

Giants from page 10

Albums such as Lincoln, Flood, and Apollo 18, whole clusters of people jumped in rhythm, knocking their neighbors about in
oblivious abandonment. In between songs John F. talked about life, the universe, and whatever else came to mind. When the
group promised a new song, they had a short discussion about music theory (“Is the fourth major or minor?”) before
launching into “Particle Man” “with the collective sorrow of every band on earth” since they’d decided to play it in
the minor key. John L. didn’t have any qualms about correcting his band-mate during the song by pointing out, “fifth
is major” which was received with a sheepish, “oh.”

One of John F.’s suggestions was to start a conga line to go along with the horn-driven “No One Knows
My Plan” which, he said, was “a lot more fun when it works. Also, those of you in the back
might be in the front by the end of the song.” The crowd was willing to comply although the line
didn’t improve its position much. As Ethan McCutchen (one of the people I went with) pointed out, it was refreshing
to watch a band that didn’t take themselves very seriously. How could they? Their style of music is fun and
entertaining. I can’t think of a song that isn’t performed with this in mind. I love this band, and I
was not disappointed in the least when I saw them live. Even people who’d never heard They Might Be Giants
before enjoyed the show and I’m not surprised. It is an indication ofGreatness.
By Katharine Laidlaw
Staff Writer

School Daze, a parody on the experiences of black students at Davidson, proved to be an insightful and provocative presentation
for those who attended the Thursday night show in the 900 Room. The short skits, performed mostly by members of
the BSC, gave its audience a glimpse into what it was like to be a minority on a small college
campus. What was particularly significant in the School Daze presentation was the discussion which followed the performance. For one of
the first times in my experience at Davidson, I witnessed an open forum in which racial relations could be discussed,
with amazing candor, by both white and black students.

The conversation began debating the term “Afro-American” as a means to refer to black students. The term was inappropriate and
misleading, and I felt Joy Sparks took the edge off when she pointed out that “in trying not to be
offensive,” many people were, in fact, “offending.” Tasha Jenkins supported this statement when she advised people to “curb their sensitivity,”
to which Adrienne Nixon responded that “the differences [between black students and white students] are there, and they should be
celebrated.”

The question was posed to the panel as to why they had chosen to come to Davidson, knowing that they
would form such a small percentage of the college community. Jenkins pointed out that Davidson provided a fantastic academic opportunity,
which should not have been overlooked in favor of attending an institution where there would be more of a racial
balance. She also argued that it’s difficult when applying to a school to recognize what a 4% minority actually translates
into when applied to the number of black students. The course catalogue, she demonstrated, was misleading, making it seem as
if there was more of a diverse mix of students at Davidson than are actually present.

Jason Burt argued that it was a challenge for a black person to come to Davidson, but it was a
challenge that was to be appreciated. He added that if “a black person can make it through Davidson,” he could
make it through anything. Nixon declared that in coming here, she hadn’t made social life her priority. “It’s the education,”
she declared, “it’s the experience you can share being surrounded by other intelligent people. It’s not who you party with
on the weekends.”

When asked as to how black students were received at this college, Karona Sanders replied frankly, “a lot of people
don’t know how to react to me. So they ignore me,” to which Joy Sparks added that she had come
to Davidson an outgoing person, and was surprised by how she felt other students had tended to “hurry past, walk
next to the wall, and [not] make eye contact” with her. Other students on the panel agreed with this sentiment
and voiced the feelings of segregation and exclusion they had felt since coming to Davidson, all of which seem to
culminate in the universal question: “Am I the only person who feels isolated here?”

Towards the end of the discussion, Dr. Fairley expressed her theory that white students are “subtly pressured” by other white
students when they get here, so that even whites who are “comfortable being around people of color” are discouraged from
doing so. Dr. Fairley believes that these types of attitudes cause Davidson students to “miss out on an informal education,”
which included “getting to know people as they are.”

In closing, Dr. Fairley stressed that the racial situation at Davidson was not unique, but was a national issue, with
which we will have to face eventually. Indeed, our sheltered community here is only a bubble through which we perceive
the world, and in order to fulfill the expectations of our generation, each and every one of us should strive
towards greater understanding of one another. Rather than fear what makes us into different people, we should explore how our
individualities can bring us together.

---

Daytime and Evening Childcare provided in the Lake Norman and surrounding areas.
- Flexible hours
- Good Pay
- Car needed

Call GRANDMOTHER'S INC.: 332-5386
Serving Charlotte and surrounding areas for 18 years.
Mon. - Fri. 9 - 5
