12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING

Wine tasting livens up the weekend what-to-do-blues

By Curisty Shi
Staff Writer

You may know that Virginia is for lovers, but did you realize that Virginia is also for wine lovers? Home to 46 wineries, Virginia boasts profuse vineyards and festive celebrations to promote the products of these vineyards, the wines of Virginia. As the official Virginia Wine Month, October hosts a plethora of wine festivals. These events feature craft shows, live music, and the finest wines of the state. If you have never been to a wine or food festival, then get ready for an interesting and fun experience.

I spent last Sunday at Smith Mountain Lake’s seventh annual Wine Festival. I arrived on an overcast day at the tent-strewn field full of inquisitiveness and anticipation; I was not let down. Having ordered my ticket in advance (which saved me $5), I went to the head of the line, where I received my wristband and wine glass with the festival logo. Fifteen wineries were represented, and each had brought with them anywhere from 5-10 selections of their finest wines. I proceeded from one tent to the next, tasting select wines as I browsed among the art exhibits and craft stands and listened to the live band. I went knowing little about wines, but through friends and the winery representatives, I left knowing much.

Although my favorite wine from the entire tasting tour was mulled from apples — a glorified cider — several other “real” wines made quite favorable impressions. Totier Creek Vineyard presented their ‘93 Merlot; its distinctive flavor and blend with Cabernet Sauvignon stole the show. I also enjoyed Rebec Vineyards’ Autumn Glow, which is a unique blend of Riesling and Pinot Noir.

By this point, I am sure you are wondering how to experience the food, wine, music, and discount prices on wine purchases for yourself. One of the best bets is to escape to the region between Charlottesville and Culpeper on the weekend of October 14, 15. Four vineyards (marked by *) in that area host fall festivals that weekend, with barrel tasting, seminars, vineyard tours, hayrides, and sampling of new fall releases. Also that weekend, at Rebec Vineyards is the 5th Annual Garlic Festival, where five Virginia wineries will be exhibited amongst festival fanfare. On October 28, try Jazz on the Lawn at Stonewall Vineyards, with tastings and tours; that same day, Rose Bower Vineyard presents the Autumn Color Festival with similar activities.

I advise calling ahead and acquiring tickets for the festivals, as well as getting specific directions and times. If you want to turn a wine festival weekend into a relaxing getaway, I suggest checking into a bed and breakfast inn. These are comparable in price to staying in a hotel, but with atmospheres which make you feel like an individual and not just a name on a computer screen.

Once again, if you have questions or comments, please contact me through voice mailbox 3389, or contact the Virginia Wine Marketing Program at (800) 828-4637. Cheers!

Fest from page 1

...to room, questioning students about their languages, cultures, home lives and even governments. Susanne König, a one-year international from Germany said, “I think it is interesting once people come and start to talk to you. They ask questions, and they show that they are really interested. It’s great!”

Meanwhile, visitors could snag a foreign treat to nibble on tour. There were French crepes, German cakes, Japanese tea, Malaysian desserts, Indian papad and candies among a plethora of other cuisine. “It is a great way to introduce Americans to Indian culture and cuisine,” said a freshman from Maharashtra, India, Chris Martin. “It was nice that Americans enjoyed learning about foreign cultures.”

Often one was greeted by someone in traditional dress. Visitors could have their hands decorated with mendhi, a henna mixture used in India. Others were taught games or had their names written in foreign languages. The final stop was the 900 Room where dynamic performances and vibrant music energized audience members. “One of the highlights was the Ghana dancer, who swept the entire audience with powerful emotion. He was just incredible,” exclaimed sophomore Erika Rissing.

New HAIR DESIGNERS
A full-service salon for men and women

Come in for any of our many services: cuts, perms, hair-coloring, manicures, pedicures. Right now, Davidson students and faculty receive 10% off all retail items with a school I.D. We now carry a new line of retail products by Abba. Also select from a line of Paul Mitchell, Matrix, Logic, Nexxus, Sebastian, and Goldwell hairstyling products.

Southlake Shopping Center
Next to Harris Teeter
Cornelius, NC
892-3067

Students sang love songs in Korean and top chart pop songs from Japan. Aparna Iyer performed a dance in Bharatnatyam style with grace. The participants were also excited about sharing their cultures with those who were curious enough to ask them about their countries. “I feel very international,” said a prominent junior from Pakistan, “wearing these clothes, seeing this stuff which comes out only...Once a year and eating all this food which also comes out only once a year.” Saad Gul was proud to be representing Pakistan at the festival. “Besides the fact that it’s the largest one ever,” explained Ruth Pittard, “the best thing is the feeling. And this year they really did it together, cooperatively. Everyone worked together — the Union, ISA, Cultural Events, professors, host families. There’s a sense of family. It was just so fun!”

College Kitchen
Serving up marinated steak and cheesy potatoes
By Jay Shultz & Ros Kosicki
MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1995
Davidsonian Chefs-in-Residence

Ingredients:
Steak Marinade
4 single serving steaks
1/2 cup vegetable oil
3 Tbsp. lemon juice
2 Tbsp. Dijon mustard
2 Tbsp. soy sauce
1/2 tsp. salt
1/4 tsp. garlic powder
1/2 tsp. black pepper
2 bay leaves
1 medium sliced onion

Cheesy Potatoes
1/4 cup red wine vinegar
2 lbs. all-purpose potatoes
8 oz. shredded cheddar cheese
2 Tbsp. butter or margarine
1 medium chopped onion
3-4 slices of chopped bacon (optional)

The total cost for this meal will be about thirty dollars. Although the initial price may be high, you will be left with enough ingredients to prepare this savory marinade several times throughout the grilling season.

If you are a steak and potatoes kind of person, then we have a recipe for you! To prepare this meal, you will need the following:

To begin, combine all ingredients of the marinade recipe in a serving dish and mix thoroughly. Poke holes in both sides of the steaks to allow the marinade to soak in. Place steaks in the serving dish with the marinade and allow three to five hours for steaks to soak in the marinade. Cover the serving dish with aluminum foil and place in the refrigerator. For best results, flip steaks periodically during the three to five hour period. Cook steaks on a preheated grill to desired perfection.

To prepare cheesy potatoes, begin by cleaning the potatoes under running water. Next, slice the potatoes into 1/4 inch thick discs. There is no need to peel the potatoes first, but you may do so if you desire. Boil the sliced potatoes for 15-20 minutes. When they are done cooking, drain excess water. Place potatoes in a baking dish. Add butter, cheese, onion, and bacon (if desired). Mix ingredients thoroughly. Place the dish in an oven set at 325°F and bake for 30 minutes.

Depending on the size of the steak you select, your grilling time will vary. You will want to time it so that your potatoes will be coming out of the oven at about the same time that your steaks are coming off the grill. On average, a 3/4 inch thick steak will take 10-15 minutes to cook. We hope that you enjoy this feast and please do not hesitate to call us with any questions or comments.

Spring Break
Nassau, Paradise Island, Cancun, and Jamaica from $299.00. Air, Hotel, Transfers, Parties, and More! Organize a small group and earn a FREE trip plus commissions! Call 1-800-822-0321.

PART-TIME NANNY WANTED
In the afternoon for 5-month-old boy
* No evenings
* Must have own transportation
Salary negotiable
Call Libby at 663-6881

Bluegrass from page 10
Nobody could deliver such a blow, I was unwilling to find out. The only other band member that struck fear into my heart was Jimmy, a man who seemed more at home on a Harley than a dark corner of the cafeteria. He also had a mustache that traveled from one side of his chin to the other. But Jimmy played a small mandolin which did a lot to lessen the blow of his appearance when he had to hunch over in order to finger the instrument’s tiny fretboard. The rest of the ensemble looked fairly normal in their jeans, cowboy boots, and shirts. The front line was made up of a violinist — although I suppose technically he played the fiddle. Next to him stood the lead vocalist who also played acoustic guitar. It was this man who did most of the talking, joking with the crowd and generally having a good time, though he seemed to be as confused as the rest of us as to why the band was playing at the Commons in the first place. Jimmy and Earl completed the first wave. Behind them, hidden in the shadows, was the bassist playing an upright. Countless requests were called out, but the only one I recognized was “Sweet Home Alabama” which the band refused to play on the grounds that they hadn’t ingested nearly enough alcohol. I was privileged enough to hear the band’s version of “Dueling Banjos” which was led by Earl and the guitarist. Many of the other songs had three or four-part harmonies and double-time solos from guitar, violin, banjo, and mandolin (the guitarist calling out “Are you finished?” to ensure he wasn’t cutting Jimmy off) which were all well performed. The atmosphere surrounding the band was one of amusement and fun which easily crossed over to the audience. The comic scene provided a nice change. Nevertheless, I’m going to have nightmares about Earl. He never did talk much...