THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, MARCH 20, 1995

15

Senior Megan Snyder takes control on offense.

Rob Kosicki

Wrestling takes fifth in SoCon tourney

By JOHN ROE
Sports writer

The wrestling team finished its season strongly in Asheville at the Southern Conference tournament, pulling out a fifth-place finish on
the strength of consistency and several close matches.

WRESTLING

“The team showed consistency and depth - everybody wrestled well,” coach Tom Oddo said. “As far as I know, we
placed more wrestlers than we have in twenty years.”

Jason Deaton, Andy Sterling, Jesse Kenner, and Derek Spencer all placed fourth, while Jake Hamilton and Sean Harvey were one
win away from placing.

Harvey lost a heartbreaker in double overtime, and Hamilton came back from an early 6-0 deficit to lose 10-9.

Appalachian State and VMI tied for first in the tournament.

Oddo expects to bring in several good recruits at different weight classes next year.

“All we need is one more very good wrestler to take us to the next level,” he said, “and it
appears that we might have three such wrestlers. ... Hopefully, we will have some in the finals of next year’s
Southern Conference tournament.”

Women’s lacrosse opens in defeat

By MARY-ELISE BRUMFIELD
Sports writer

Over spring break, most Davidson students engaged in a myriad of activities from hitting the beach to hitting the mountains,
from heading home or just staying on campus.

WOMEN'S LACROSSE

But the women’s lacrosse team didn’t have much of a chance to relax as it kicked off its season with
a couple of games and a tournament.

On March 4, the Wildcats headed to William and Mary to officially begin their season with two days of what
freshman Katie Nelson called “play games.”

Davidson was one of 30 teams in Williamsburg to play a series of 30-minute games which did not count toward
the teams’ records. Nelson said the purpose was to allow players to gain more experience while playing in a non-competitive
atmosphere.

The Wildcats also played two games over the break on the road that did count in the standings. One was
against St. Joseph’s, which Davidson lost 19-8, and the other was against Hofstra, which the Wildcats also lost 20-5.

Last week, the Wildcats opened their home schedule with two more games. Monday, Davidson fell 16-3 to Lehigh before having
another disappointing day Friday in a 15-4 loss to George Mason.

The team now stands at 0-4, but, said senior co-captain Allison Adams, “The team is pulling together, and I think
we’ll improve.” She also said the season will be especially tough because they are aiming for a Division I level
program.

The women’s team, headed by coach Nancy Billger, is comprised of 17 players, including senior Nancy Hilles (also a co-captain),
senior Megan Snyder, sophomores Lisa Dorson and Tanner Thompson, and freshmen Chloe Brooks and Tamra Carhart, the squad’s goalie.

Ball from page 14

...ting a doubleheader on Saturday, losing 6-2 and winning 4-1, the Wildcats dropping the rubber match Sunday 10-7. Davidson is
currently 4-5 in the conference, placing them in the middle of the pack.

“We are playing good defense. We are leading the Southern Conference in team defense,” coach Dick Cooke said. “And we
pitched well up until this week.”

Wednesday, Davidson fell 18-6 to Liberty. The Wildcats then took on Illinois State both Thursday and Friday. In the first
game, Davidson staged a fierce comeback, but lost 7-6. The Wildcats fell behind 6-1 after five innings. The Wildcats fought
back with four runs over the next two innings to close the gap to one. After surrendering another run in
the top of the eighth, Davidson got one more run in the bottom of the ninth and had the winning
run on base before losing 7-6. Gus Quattlebaum led the offense, going three for four with three RBIs while hitting
his fourth home run of the season.

Michael New added his first home run of the season for the Wildcats.

Friday, Davidson exacted some revenge, pulling out a dramatic 4-3 victory in ten innings. Down 3-2 in the bottom of
the eighth, Brad Edwards knotted the game with his third home run of the season.

In the bottom of the tenth, Quattlebaum knocked in Jeff Andrews from first base with a game-winning double. Coulombe pitched
nine innings, giving up just three runs. Pollard closed the door in the tenth to earn his fourth win of
the season.

After a somewhat shaky start, the Wildcats improved their overall record to 6-12 going into Sunday’s game against Ohio.

“We're still getting a feel for what some guys are going to do for us,” Cooke said.

Davidson continues its home stand against N.C. State Tuesday and Wake Forest Wednesday before going back on the road next
weekend against East Tennessee State.

READY, SET, SAIL

On Lake Norman, in the second of three qualifying regattas for the District Championships, Davidson placed third and is in
good position to qualify for the championships in April.

Rob Kosicki

FEATURES:

- Free weights
- Weight machines
- Wolff Tanning Beds
- Alpine Life Sports 2000 Stair Climbers
- Combicycle 330 Computing Exercise Bicycles
- Juice Bar/Nutritional Supplements
- Men's and Women's Showers/Locker Rooms
- Free Personalized Training Programs
- Body Shop Clothing and Apparel

THE BODY SHOP FITNESS CENTER

15903 Old Statesville Rd. (Hwy. 115), Huntersville, NC 28078
875-8817
“We Support A Drug Free America”

Davidson College Students:

Tanning Special:
Monthly Unlimited Package
Members: $30.00
Non-Members: $35.00

LOWEST STUDENT RATES AROUND
MONTHLY: $25.00 QUARTERLY: $70.00

**MUST HAVE A VALID DAVIDSON COLLEGE ID. OFFER EXPIRES 5-15-95.
