Che Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXVII

MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 1995

NUMBER 1

OUT OF THE HOUSE

Three newly-arrived freshmen loiter near Chambers trying not to look lost.

Mandy Curtis

Class of 1999

New freshmen provide wealth of talent

By WILLIAM ROBERT
Associate Editor

Davidson students seem to keep getting smarter and smarter. With the Class of 1999 arriving from 39 states and 20
foreign countries to begin their Davidson careers this week, upperclassmen again wonder how they compare to the newest class.

Academically, the Class of 1999 is top-notch. It includes 38 high school valedictorians and 19 salutatorians. Nearly 80 percent graduated
in the top 10 percent of their high school classes. Their SAT scores range from 1190 to 1270 for the
middle 50 percent of the class.

Outside the classroom, they continue to demonstrate their talents. The newest group of Davidsonians includes a nationally ranked gymnast, a
bagpipe player, an architect and interior designer, a newspaper reporter, several extremely gifted musicians, and a playwright. They have showcased
their talents as close to home as Charlotte and as far away as New York’s Carnegie Hall as well as
France, Holland, and Denmark.

Of course, the class includes a number of students who served as high school student body presidents, yearbook and newspaper
editors, captains of athletic teams, and volunteers who have traveled to Mexico, Brazil, Kenya, Saudi Arabia, New Zealand, Poland, and
other countries doing mission work. Others have performed thousands of hours in community service projects across the country — from
preparing brown bag lunches for the homeless to working at local hospitals.

The Class of 1999 is a very talented bunch that, all around, should give upperclassmen a run for their money.

Student Health Center responds to student demands

By JOSH BUCHANAN
Operations Manager

In response to student body pressure last year, the Student Health Center has enacted some major policy changes for the
upcoming semester.

Dr. David Staton, Director of Student Health Services, feels that the changes strongly reflect the general dissatisfaction that students expressed
near the end of last semester. The primary focus of these changes centers around Staton’s desire to see “more physician
time for students.”

“Last year, the Physician’s Assistant (PA) came after 5:00, basically for referrals and to fill out charts,” says Staton. This
limited contact time between students

See Infirmary on page 2

The PCC Plan: What’s that on your wrist?

By MATTHEW ERRICO
News Editor

When the first parties of the year occur tonight or tomorrow, only those students with the small white “PCC 1995”
sticker on their Cat cards will be admitted. This new policy is the result of the debate about independents and
the Court from last year.

In order to pay for the risk management required by the College and the houses’ insurance policies, the fraternities and
eating houses will be charging independent students $10 per semester to attend parties. Freshmen and transfers will be exempt from
paying their first semester.

The houses’ insurance policies require that they host only “closed” parties. A closed party is defined by the insurance companies
as one having a set guest list and one which prevents non-registered students from attending. In the past, the Davidson
directory was considered the guest list, but in the last year the houses have learned that this policy would negate
their insurance policies if a lawsuit was brought against a house.

How the plan will work
At the first party a student attends on a given evening, he will be required to pass through the front
door and display his ID with the “PCC” sticker. He will then be given a colored wristband that will signify
that he is over or under 21. Every house that sponsors a party on the same evening will use the
same colored wristbands, so once a student checks in at one party, he will not need to do so at
another.

Students already affiliated with a Court house and independent students

See PCC on page 3

THIS WEEK

NEWS 3 | OPINIONS 8 | ARTS & LIVING 11 | SPORTS 14

Dean Rusk’s new honcho
Meet Ken Brown.

Yep, it’s Rosie.
Rosie depicts love during youth ... in her own special way.

Cup of Joe
Finally, a coffee shop on Main Street.

Soccer preview
Men’s and women’s teams get a helpful dose of fabulous freshmen.
