14

THE DAVIDSONIAN

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1995

Have a drink.

SPORTS

Jay Shultz

THIS WEEKEND

The schedule:
Friday:
Pep Rally and Lunar Luau. Meet Davidson’s athletes and coaches. 9 p.m.-1 a.m.

Saturday:
Football vs. Sewanee, 1:30 p.m.
Volleyball vs. Campbell, 7 p.m.
Men’s/Women’s Cross Country at Davidson Open/Alumni Invitational, 8:45 a.m.
Field Hockey vs. Ohio University, 1 p.m.
Women’s Soccer vs. Wofford, 4 p.m.

Sunday:
Field Hockey vs. Wake Forest, 2 p.m.
Women’s Soccer vs. GA Southern, 2 p.m.

Glory

from page 12

ney was UNCC, one of our biggest rivals and one we hadn’t beaten in a long time. To my personal eternal shame I didn’t go into Charlotte for the game - had to study and all that. Big mistake. Ukrop, who was voted the national soccer player of the year by at least one poll and who led all division 1 players in scoring, won the game on a bicycle kick. That’s where you do a back flip and kick the ball while trying not to land on your head.

Most try to survive the kick.

Ukrop scored on it.

Local news ate it up and replayed it all over the place: Davidson had beaten its biggest rival and was a step closer to really hosting the final four.

Next was Coastal Carolina, and the ominous result was a tie and penalty kicks. Ukrop missed our first kick, leaving goalie Alex Deegan in a tough spot of having to catch us up to Coastal. He did, and how! He blocked five of Coastal’s 10 kicks (you just don’t do that!!!), three of which would have won the game for the Chanticleers. Freshman (now senior) Ryan Northington scored the winner for us. I think my voice is still hoarse from yelling at that game. I considered having a pacemaker installed after the game: Soccer is not a game for the weak at heart. On we advanced.

Raleigh. N.C. State. Top 10 school. Overtime (again). Sudden death. Penalty kicks? Not a chance. Ukrop. Corner Kick. In traffic. Where’s the ball? Back of the net. Cats win 1-0. Pandemonium. State rednecks stunned. Wildcat fans ballistic. Ukrop runs over triumphant, heroic. Final four. Davidson. We’re in. UNBELIEVABLE!

That’s as far as it went, unfortunately. We were in the final four and ran up against a San Diego State team that beat us 3-2, actually scoring one of our goals for us and sending the game into overtime. We had a key guy, Cliff Castelloé, out with too many yellow cards. That, and maybe sheer exhaustion killed us. That’s OK, we made it, we hosted the party, we went to the final four. Vitale lauded, the sports world cheered and we were proud. A team of “walk ons” had made good; even Ukrop, who went on to star in a U.S. pro league, had been an unwanted recruit out of high school. It can be done here.

But could it happen again?

You gotta believe.

Fishing the late

By John Roe
Sports Writer

The sun had just peaked over the treeline on the other side of Lake Norman, and the water was as smooth as ice.

THE GREAT OUTDOORS

The early morning rush-hour traffic on I-77, usually a constant hum, was not yet in progress. The rest of the world was still in bed, probably hitting snooze for the second time, but I was standing on the water’s edge, ready to coax Lake Norman’s bass from bed.

My first cast sailed about 30 yards into deep water, just off a rock point. I waited until the ripples from my Jitterbug faded into the still water, then I began a slow retrieve.

I watched the lure churn water out of its path until finally, an explosion sent my lure barreling through the air. I saw the green back, the black lateral stripe and then the white belly of a largemouth bass roll and slap the water, then it returned into the deep water.

I let my lure lay motionless, for I knew that bass were still in the area. After a few seconds, I gave the Jitterbug one tiny twitch, and just as I expected, the bass was watching. The water exploded once again, but this time my lure stayed on this side of the lake.

The bass was hooked, and within a few moments, I had landed and released the fish.

In the late summer, one of the best ways to consistently catch bass is to “wake them up,” or “put them to bed.” This means fishing in the two lowlight periods, sunrise and sunset. In late summer, most big fish become sluggish, feeding by night and bedding in thick cover when the sun is out.

Because the fish go on the prowl at night, fishing big lures such as Heddon’s Zara Spook, Jit-

See Fish on page 15

Outdoorsman and his largemouth.

Courtesy of John Roe

NOW ON DISPLAY:
CHARLOTTE ARTIST

TONY GRIFFIN

REPRESENTATIONS
OIL PAINTINGS & DRAWINGS

EXHIBIT OPENED DAILY
SEPTEMBER 1 - OCTOBER 2, 1995