Che Mabidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

VOLUME LXXXVII MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1995 NUMBER 4

Shaw Smith: the Panther Man
Professor lives boyhood dream to work with pro team
By Kirsten RECKNAGEL
Staff Writer

Associate Professor of Art History and Humanities Shaw Smith remembers his high school days clearly. Each weekend, just as the
Sunday afternoon professional football games were getting underway, his mother would turn off the television and tell him that it
was time he finished his homework. Smith vowed that after high school he would watch every game he could —
and today he has the best seat in the house.

Smith is involved with the Carolina Panthers’ home locker room preparation, the countless details of which make it “an enormous
undertaking,” he explains. Smith’s experience with the Panthers began about a year and a half ago when he wrote letters
to those affiliated with the team, asking if he could assist them in any way. When he was offered the
opportunity to work with the ball crew, Smith was thrilled. Members of the ball crew are positioned at the sidelines
of the field and feed the ball in to the referees when it has gone out of play. Constantly on
the alert, they must anticipate the ball’s final destination, or spot, and in this way they play a critical role
in speeding up the game.

His position on the ball crew meant he had “the best seat in the house,” Smith says. “The players are
fast, strong, and smart. They shrink the field.” In addition, Smith stresses that football is “not brutish. The pro game
is about will. Everyone is physical; that’s a given. There is no question that football at this level, in the
NFL, is the most mental team game there is.”

Today, Smith is part of the organizational structure which supports the Panthers behind the scenes.

Davidson professor Shaw Smith mans the sidelines for the Carolina Panthers. Courtesy of ¥ LT ?

SURFING NET
Surfers find a home (page) on the World Wide Web
By BRIGAND GREEN
Staff Writer

By now, even the most dedicated technophobe among us has heard tales of the Internet and, particularly, the World Wide
Web. This massive combination of text, graphics, and hypertext “links” has received intensive press coverage due to its sometimes-informative, often-entertaining
content and its ease of use. Lured by the dual promise of vast new realms of information and social interaction,
increasing numbers of Davidson students have taken the plunge into the often-confusing world of the Web. Using a networked campus
computer and Netscape, any student can point-and-click his or her way across the World Wide Web with ease.

But what happens when a student is ready to establish his or her own presence on the Web? Even though
the Computing Services Center doesn’t officially allow students to establish their own Web pages, a few enterprising students have obtained...

See Sandra on page 9

Peter M. Varney

Netscape: Davidson College

Back | Forward | Home | Reload | Images | Open | Print | Find

Location: [http://www.davidson.edu/davidson.html]

What's New? | What’s Cool? | Handbook | Net Search | Net Directory | NewsgroupsHighly selective, nationally recognized, founded by
Presbyterians in 1837, the college is located in Davidson, a private college of the liberal arts and sciences, 19 miles
north of Charlotte, and enrolls approximately 1,600 men and women. The 450-acre campus is a designated arboretum and has 76
campus buildings, including five historic landmarks. Check out the rest of our pages for a more complete introduction, information on
admission and financial aid, or a glimpse of student life.

College Departments
For curricular information, see the academic programs and for further information about Davidson see the administrative departments or athletics.

Information Resources
This section includes a campus map, the computer center, and the library.

© Copyright 1995, Davidson College, Davidson, NC 28036

Davidsonian gets Web page
By BRAD CHASE
Staff Writer

The Davidsonian will soon become the first campus organization to host its own Web page. Included in the new page
will be selected articles and photographs from each week’s edition. Students and faculty will find it easier to access past
articles and current happenings. Also, alumni from anywhere will be able to receive campus information by accessing the Web page.
The page will allow students to send comments and questions to The Davidsonian from any computer terminal hooked up to
Pollux. Currently, Web pages are being offered to campus organizations if they agree to follow the guidelines established by the
Web Oversight Committee. Web users can reach The Davidsonian’s Web page at http://www.davidson.edu.

Sherman and Luskey win senatorial races
By CATHERINE NA
Staff Writer

On Monday and Tuesday, elections were held for Freshman Senators, Independent Senators, and Sophomore Honor Council representatives. The newly elected
freshman class Senators are Lucy Sherman (president), Katie Sanderson, Jonathan Sipling, John Bell, Conner Eldridge, and Ann Harriott Fisher. Also
elected were Independent Senators Brian Luskey (Head Independent Senator), Yanti Aardie, John Ballard, John Hollan, Tim Saintsing, and Brandon Clarke.
The new Sophomore Honor Council representatives are Charlotte Hildebrand, Shakeem Lane, Susannah Herndon, and Matt Ellis.

Sherman is “really looking forward to the year. All of the freshman senators are really excited and willing to work
with each other. Everybody’s enthusiastic, and we all will take a different approach.” Sherman will focus on evaluating whether freshmen
should have to purchase a 19-meal plan. She also hopes to find ways to improve the election processes.

Luskey has immediate and long-term goals on his agenda. “We want to have a Homecoming that people actually go to,”
Luskey says. He wants to move the party to the Outpost, have an afternoon barbeque, and have a party —
perhaps with alcohol — in the evening. Luskey would also like to change the combinations of meals and bonus bucks,
so that students who eat very often in the Café will...

See Elections on page 2

THIS WEEK
First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

NEWS
Students will soon have a choice between campus radio stations.

OPINIONS
Watch out! Katie Mac vents her frustrations from the week’s events.

ARTS & LIVING
Geordie Schimmel interviews Verdie Barringer, a poet in our midst.

SPORTS
Rhett Ingerick chooses Davidson over the Marlins.
