THE DAVIDSONIAN  
MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 1995

The Davidsonian  
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors  
MANDY COHEN  
JEFF KENT

Opinions Editor  
ROBERT RAMSAY

Business Manager  
KATHERINE WILLIAMSON

Associate Editors  
JOHN COPENHAVER  
JOSH CHAPMAN  
RUSS TARVER

Arts & Living Editor  
CAROLINE BYNUM

Sports Editor  
MATT PITZER

News Editor  
MEREDITH BENKE

Photography Editor  
ANDY BOSWELL

Advertising Managers  
ROB KOSICKI  
MATTHEW EIRICH

Assistant News Editor  
JOANNA JOHNSON

Copy Editor  
TED PENICK

Circulation Manager  
TERESA WHITE

Founded in 1914  
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Learning our lines “to liberate the MINDS of young men and women for useful LIVES of leadership and SERVICE”  
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS (“Let Learning Be Cherished Where Liberty Has Arisen”)

“Davidson holds a priceless heritage bequeathed by those who have dedicated their lives and their possessions for its welfare. To it much has been entrusted, and of it much is required.”

Statement of Purpose  
As we begin our first, second, third, fourth (or fifth for a special few) years, let us ponder some of the essential truths about Davidson. These truths, simple yet treasured, belonged to the first class of 1841 and have been passed down from generation to generation of Davidsonians. Now we place them into the hands of our freshmen, the class of 1999, while we welcome them into our family.

Words like learning, leadership, and liberty make up these essential truths and are only a few of the many that we hear throughout our Davidson experience. We hear them often, but sometimes we don’t really listen. Lots of times too much is going on to really think about what these words and what these ideals mean. Freshmen become pretty familiar, almost comfortable, with these words in the first few days of orientation. But once they start sorting through different emotions and experiences in an effort to figure the place and the people out, the words become fuzzy. Things like Court parties, English Comp, soccer games, and date functions begin to overshadow the ideas.

By the time sophomore year rolls around, people can’t remember all of the words, but know that they’re supposed to mean something. (What does Alenda Lux mean again?) But that’s normal—sophomores are busy thinking about other things: what to major in, should I have transferred last year, where to go abroad, etc. Junior year, the words may disappear altogether. Actually, for many of us, we disappear and don’t even want to think about Davidson, let alone the words. But senior year hits us and the words come flooding back. Time has passed and we realize we only have one year left. Now it’s time to sit out on the porch with friends who have become family and think about what the words mean, what it’s all about, and whether or not the words are true.

Perhaps the most important question we can ask is whether or not we’ve been true to the words. Have we liberated our minds? Have we demonstrated leadership or provided service? Have we cherished learning and liberty? When we start to ask these questions we discover what Davidson is all about. We see that the truths aren’t lost at all. Somehow, the words become a part of us. Davidson becomes a part of us. And by giving life to the words and meaning to the essential truths, we become a part of the Davidson tradition.

LETTERS

Welcome, students  
Dear Students,

I hope everyone’s summer went well. It’s now time to buy books, set up binders and backpacks, and get back in the swing of things. Once again, as classes begin, that feeling ofA clean slate and a fresh start is overwhelming. So is the humidity. To you freshmen, welcome. You made the right choice. We at SGA are extremely excited about this year. We’re hoping to capitalize on the momentum of last spring and continue bringing you progress. The new businesses in town and campus improvements are pleasing to all of us. Use the new Xerox machine in the library, bask in the glow of the new lighting, break a sweat on the new basketball courts, and allow the improved infirmary to nurse you back to health after that first test. Also, there is a new coffee house and bike shop on Main Street, and a sports bar is allegedly on its way.

But in the midst of change, there is continuity. The SGA wants to continue representing you as best we can. Now is the time to get involved in student government. There is an unprecedented number of opportunities for service, including my three new student advisory councils. They will be formed this fall, so be on the lookout for sign-ups. Everyone is eligible. Our door is open to you. Stop by our office (3rd Floor of the Union). Contact your representatives frequently with suggestions and complaints, or call me, Warren, or Dennis directly at -2147. This is going to be a great year.

Sincerely,
Bill Gullan, ‘96

Just relax

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year.

Advertising

To the editors,

What is this infectious disease that everyone’s catching? STRESS!! Davidson’s campus has to be one of the most stressful places I have ever seen. People become so wrapped up in getting good grades that they miss some of the best parts of Davidson. I realize we are here to get an education, but there is a lot more to life at Davidson than just tests, papers, and lectures. People at Davidson feel they always need constant activity. I tried this approach for a while, and I nearly went crazy. When I was a freshman my GPA, classes, reviews, and court parties preoccupied all my thoughts. I was always on the edge and felt guilty if I wasn’t either studying or doing something else productive (yes, I do consider partying productive). After three years at Davidson I have learned to ease back and enjoy my time more at our fine school. If people would just relax every now and then they would find themselves a great deal happier. Take some time to sit and wind down. Drink a beer with a good friend. Watch a movie. Throw a football on the lawn. Enjoy your life here. If we all just took a step back, put things in perspective, and learned to relax, this campus would be a lot more fun for everyone.

Sincerely,
Jack Slosson, ‘96

The Union will now be providing a telephone information service to keep us on top of all Union activities. It’s called the Union Hotline. Dial 2579-*-*-52144. Special thanks to Lori Blue, Jill Dyer, John Hollan, Beth Lindsey, and Debbie Liverman for assistance with publicity. Rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.