RIS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1995

Hoop Dreams scores
By Tammy Tiska
Davidsonian movie critic

The Academy Award nominations were announced last week, and most of the expected names were mentioned — John Travolta, Forrest
Gump, Woody Allen, Forrest Gump. But there was one particularly glaring absence. Not only was Hoop Dreams slighted from the
Best Picture category, it wasn’t even nominated for Best Documentary. The chairman of the committee that screens the documentaries said
something like, “We watched over five hundred documentaries. And we found five that we liked better than Hoop Dreams.” That
may be how the system works, but the omission of Hoop Dreams is an outrage that will go down in
cinema history.

A three-hour-long movie has never flown by so fast. Much of the power of this film stems from the simple
fact that it is a documentary. From the moment I saw William Gates and Arthur Agee playing basketball on their
neighborhood court, I was mesmerized. This was real. It was somebody’s life. Of course, it’s easy to forget there is
somebody behind the camera, asking the questions, deciding what to film, what to omit, and what to zoom in on.
No film can escape the bias and purposes of the director as he manipulates reality. Still, this film is refreshingly
free of sentimentality. No blaring music telling me to get emotional during the sad scenes. No struggle to convince myself
the plot was realistic, because there was no plot. Just life for two boys struggling to follow their dreams of
making it out of inner-city Chicago to the NBA. No one dies, there are no fatal illnesses and no unrequited
loves, yet I found myself on the verge of tears at seemingly insignificant moments.

Hoop Dreams is surprising. The best writers couldn’t have worked more startling events into the script. The film follows Arthur
and William as they are recruited out of grammar school to play basketball until they leave for college. But Hoop
Dreams is not just about basketball; it explores the expectations of family, the innocence of youth, and the power to
achieve dreams. Although the film exposes the poverty of the inner-city, it...

See Shafted on page 12

By George Weld
Staff writer

Occasionally (I assume this is a common experience) I read a play before I go to see it and feel
certain that it is a disaster: the script seems filled with clichés; it seems reductive and simplistic, too uninterestingly didactic.
But when I see the play my experience is entirely different. Lines that had seemed slack and hackneyed in the
script are brilliantly illuminated by the actors, and the movement of the whole play is seamlessly orchestrated by an inspired
and keen director. My enjoyment of the play is enhanced by my earlier skepticism about it, as it was when
I saw Equus or Angels in America after reading those plays.

Oleanna was for me an entirely different sort of experience. I didn’t read the script before seeing the play on
the 21st in Love Auditorium. Frankly, I’m glad I didn’t spend the time to do so; it’s clear enough to
me from seeing the performance that I would have thrown the script aside and found some other way to spend
my evening. And if the script itself hadn’t been bad enough to turn me off before I saw the play,
the abysmal production that a packed house endured on Tuesday surely was. Oleanna is a reprehensible play, and the performances
by Monica Koskey and Jim Frangione and the direction of Scott Zigler do nothing to salvage it. From Frangione’s first
tinny line to Koskey’s laughable closing incantation, the play is a study in monochrome, as if the director had limited
the actors to one or two emotional registers for this performance. Whatever nuance that Mamet hadn’t whitewashed out of the
script is drained by this performance so that, in the end, the whole thing sags with a depressing dullness.

The play is ostensibly an important drama about sexual politics; in fact, it’s merely a misogynist polemic that might have
been poignant ten years ago but now appears as nothing other than posturing, ranting, and dated men’s-movement propaganda. The female
character in the drama, Carol, appears in the first scene to be an utter idiot; in the second scene she’s
a cardboard version of every insecure male’s nightmare. She spouts cliché after cliché so that you...feel foolish sympathizing with her,
as you feel at first you ought to do. For this play to be effective, Carol should have come across
as a strong woman standing up to injustice; instead, she seems a demented and dangerous Donna Quixote, tilting at a
windbag. She rotates in the three scenes of the play from being a submissive, pathetic whiner to an apparently insane
ideologue to the powerful (but still, Mamet would have us see clearly, quite out of her mind) wielder of all
control at the end. Or almost at the end: with only minutes to go until the final curtain, Mamet’s play
takes the turn we’ve been waiting for it to take since the very beginning. The much-put-upon professor, John, finally blows
his stack in a 1990s version of vigilante justice. In the least believable and most ludicrously acted scene in the
play, John (whose only consistency has been in his unevenness) slaps, punches, and generally throws around poor Carol. This is
supposed to be the grand conflagration, the scene we’ll talk about for weeks; the audience at this performance had a
hard time muffling its laughter. If David Mamet thought that Oleanna would provide an interesting take on the sexual dilemma
that much of America feels itself to be in, he was wrong. If he thought that he would provide a
male’s point of view on the ascension of a feminist consciousness, he was wrong-headed. To this male, Oleanna and the
mindset behind it are an embarrassment.

They Might Be Giants (In their own original way)
By JAMES BERRY
Staff writer

With the release of their fifth album, John Henry, They Might Be Giants have again twisted popular music to their
whim. Originally a duo, John Flansburg (vocals and guitar) and John Linnell (vocals, accordion, keyboard, and bass sax) have added
a drummer and bassist to their line-up, taking the place of the drum machines and computer sequencers that were formerly
the sources of the group’s music. Also, another new element are the horn players which offer essential accompaniment on many
of the new songs. These additions are responsible for the live sound that John Henry carries throughout and, although unfamiliar,
it doesn’t distract from the classic TMBG style.

“Particle Man” is the only song that people associate with the band and so quickly dismiss them as a dull
but quirky fluke that somehow got a record deal. But there is much more to their music than an odd
and somewhat pointless collection of random thoughts. They have a knack for singing intelligently about mostly unintelligent things. These boys
have surpassed clever and have created a new level of weird. Studying the lyrics reveals much more sense than a
casual listening of the music. In addition, a lot of their songs have a mocking quality to them, and the
subjects of this mockery include songwriters as much as anyone else.

They Might Be Giants’ music has always been caught somewhere between polka, pop, and lounge, but don’t let that scare
you. It truly can’t be defined, and with the release of the new album, the TMBG sound has taken on
a new personality. The live drums must have inspired some jamming sessions because, while on earlier albums the guitar took
a back seat, it’s been moved to the front and given the music a much heavier sound — a perfect
blend to take on the road.

Last summer at the Horde concert, I almost fell asleep because Blues Traveler wouldn’t stop soloing. At Smashing Pumpkins I
feared for my life. TMBG was just right. When they performed at the Pterodactyl last Wednesday, they attracted a much
stranger crowd than I ever would have guessed. The Davidson contingent was (as usual) the cleanest cut of the bunch,
even at its extreme, when the norm was extra long hair and 17 earrings. When the Dambuilders (the opening band)
finished their set, the crowd flocked to the stage as two clean-cut, rather mousy guys took their places. Behind John
and John were a bassist (who later humored John F. by playing “the wah thing”), a drummer (whose renowned skill
with the glockenspiel was based on sounding one note during the song, “Shoehorn With Teeth”), and two horn players (trumpet
and trombone).

The show started with the first track off John Henry, “Subliminal.” By the end of the next three songs (“A.K.A.
Driver,” and “Sleeping in the Flowers”) the crowd surged with energy, swaying back and forth in the early stages of
moshing. As the performers delved into their earlier...
