THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1995

By WILL BRADSHAW & JOANNA JOHNSON
Staff Writer & Asst. News Editor

The campus police department has replaced an old vehicle with a more dependable car this year and updated the 911
emergency system. However, these changes are unrelated to the $10 increase in parking registration.

According to department records, there are 663 cars registered to be parked on campus. The extra $6,630 elicited from this
year’s registration will drop directly into the general school budget rather than increase Police Department funds. However, most Davidson students
do not seem overly concerned about the increase. Ben Lukey ‘98 says he did not mind paying an extra $10.
“I was a little surprised, but it’s not so bad when you consider the accessibility of parking and the fact
that you are paying for the entire year,” he says.

The Davidson College Police Department researched vehicle registration prices at schools all over North Carolina. Compared to other schools in
the region, Davidson either matched or beat most other schools’ registration costs. According to the Police Department, this has been
the second increase ever instituted.

Dial 9-911! $10 dollar parking increase not related to new car or emergency system

Furthermore, Davidson allows students to pay per semester whereas other schools make students pay for the full year, even if
they go on leave for a semester. Ray Thrower, Director of Public Safety and Police, states that “[Due to the
increase], I feel like we’re starting to get in line with other schools.” He adds that student concern caused the
Police Department to lower the cost of changing a vehicle. If one decides to bring a different car to school
sometime during the year, he/she will be charged an extra three dollars instead of five.

The Police Department modified their own transportation this year. This summer, the department was granted a used Taurus by the
Davidson College motorpool. The Taurus replaced a Suzuki Samurai which the department previously had. “We purchased the Samurai as a
temporary vehicle that we would use for one year. That was four or five years ago, and getting a new
car kept getting put off and put off until it [the Samurai] was worn out,” Sergeant Dave Harding says.

In addition to the Taurus, the department still has use of a 4-door Sidekick, but that car has been repainted
white to match the new addition. Harding says that the new car had nothing to do with an increase in
crime or any criminal concerns on the part of the department. “The Taurus was what the motor pool had, and
we needed a new vehicle,” he says. “And the car works fine. It is still small enough to get around
campus, but we don’t worry about it breaking down, and it gets us where we need to go, whether it’s
a call on campus, in town, or the Intake Center [the county jail].”

And as police officers journeyed to vehicle improvements, they instituted a new system in which emergency calls travel to Charlotte
rather than Davidson. Thrower states, “We're riding on [Charlotte Police Department’s] technology; all we’re having to pay for is our
equipment with a small maintenance fee. We feel very fortunate that they asked us to come on.”

The change interrupted a 20-year association between the Davidson College and community police departments. Until now, when students dialed 2-911,
the call reached dispatchers in Davidson who then transferred the calls to the college. With the new system, students must
dial 9-911 to request emergency assistance. The call then filters through dispatchers in Charlotte who will be able to provide
better assistance than before. Thrower complains that dispatchers in Davidson were inexperienced and often rude to students.new system he says,
“As far as professionalism and technology are concerned, the [Charlotte-Mecklenburg] system is one of the top agencies in the country.
It is not unusual for them to have 20 to 25 people at the same time in the office.” The
College will not have to pay much more for the updated service. Charlotte is even financing a new repeater to
be placed at the north end of the county to improve communication capabilities. The last system was not only cost-inefficient
but police officers could not tell where students were located if they were not calling from a call box. The
new dispatcher service will also alleviate costs to the town of Davidson.

New Writing Center opens doors to all students
By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
Staff Writer

Sunday, September 10, Davidson’s Writing Center will open its doors for the first time. Designed to provide writing assistance during
any stage of the writing process, the center affords students a unique opportunity to consult trained writing tutors. Creation of
the Writing Center was pioneered by Assistant Professor of English Shireen Carroll. Carroll explains that, since she came to Davidson
three years ago, she has “worked with faculty across the curriculum” in terms of writing and composition. Her extensive surveys
of both faculty and students highlighted several concerns pertaining to student writing ability. Professors agree, Carroll states, that “effective writing
is a crucial skill for liberal arts college graduates.” However, professors are often unable to devote time to teach writing
skills in addition to their own coursework and research. Students also indicated their desire for more avenues of support in
composition.

In response to these discoveries, the English Department sponsored a proposal, drafted by Carroll, for the creation of a formal
system to help students with their writing. The plan gained faculty approval in May 1995 and this fall, the Writing
Center, located in Chambers Building’s north basement Room B-6, will open with a staff of four supervised, trained tutors. The
tutors will be students who are currently enrolled in one of Carroll’s upper-level English classes and will have been trained
by her to provide effective assistance to their peers in such areas as compositional organization, grammar, and clarity. Carroll stresses
that help will be available “at any stage of the writing process, from prewriting through revision.” However, tutors will not
serve as editors or proofreaders. In addition to peer assistance, the center will offer computer instruction in areas such as
grammar and writing mechanics.

Professors of students seeking assistance will be notified of aid sessions and specific issues addressed by Writing Center tutors. Professors
will communicate with the center as well, designating any areas or issues they prefer tutors not address. In addition, faculty
may refer students to the Writing Center for instruction. This open communication between students, professors, and Writing Center staff will
serve to clarify, for all involved parties, any questions that may arise with respect to the Honor System. To take
advantage of the wealth of instruction and information that may be found in the Writing Center, students need only to
drop in. A list of the Writing Center’s official hours will be circulated soon.

50's DANCE
September 9th: 8-12 in the evening
Vail Commons
$3.00 for Students; $5.00 for Faculty, Staff, and Public
All Proceeds Benefit the Davidson-Cornelius Daycare Center.
* Free Homemade Milkshakes, French Fries, Rice Krispy Treats
* Dance Contest, Door Prizes, and a Performance by RenElvis
~~ Sponsored by the Davidson College Union Board

Now hiring bartenders for 900 Room Bar in DC Union. Must be 21 by October 1st. Applications at Union Info
Desk. Applications due by Tuesday, September 5th. Any questions? Call Lylen at 6649 for more information.

Write for Opinions. Talk to El Jefe (aka Jeff) at 2148.
