4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1995

WINNERS!

Yearbooks to arrive soon

Delay in production pushes Quips and Cranks back -

By ANDREW PRESTON
Staff Writer

During the past few months, students have wondered why the yearbooks have not arrived. Yearbooks are usually delivered after summer break, but various circumstances have delayed their production.

As former editor Amy Liz Betz states, “The new delivery system is the best ... I apologize that the book has not arrived yet, but everything possible has been done to ensure a successful book.”

The delay in production was not caused by any specific problem but by a combination of things. A major contributor was that “experienced staff members were scarce and failed to produce at crunch time,” Betz explains.

Creating a yearbook is a large time commitment, and although there are many enthusiastic volunteers at the beginning of the year, participation dwindles as classes and other activities arise. Therefore, Betz “was personally forced to undertake many assignments which were not initially my responsibility.”

A second major reason for the delay in production is simply that the yearbook is of a higher quality than in past years. Along with the traditional features, this book promises to have a theme (which will remain a secret), as well as articles and identification of students in candid photos.

All of these features take time to perfect. As Betz argues, “We could have quickly thrown together a bunch of class pictures and candids ... without making the book visually interesting or including any copy ... that would not be fair because the yearbook is intended to last a lifetime.”

As a former editor, Betz feels that the general problem is simply that the yearbook is too much work for only a few people to accomplish. Editors are not given any guidance on how to produce the book, but they are advised by publishing companies.

As Betz states, “All I was told as editor was how much money we had and where our room was.” She admits that she enjoyed creating the yearbook but could have used more assistance.

Although there is not an exact date for the arrival of the yearbook, the book is nearing completion and should be out soon.

Betz asks students to “please respect the efforts of fellow students who took the hours of time to work on the book.” Betz also encourages those “students who are really concerned about the delay to offer current editor Lida Fitts assistance with the 1996 book, as she could definitely use the help.”

A child’s eyes glaze over as Santa hears the mile-long wish list ... ah Christmas.

Rob Kosicki

Christmas Cash Crunch?
... donate Plasma

Earn up to $200 a month by donating life-saving plasma! Visit our friendly, modern center and find out more about the opportunity to earn Christmas cash while helping others, including $30 for your first plasma donation!

alliance

“people helping people”

1511 Central Avenue at Pecan, Charlotte, NC 28205

333-0335
Valid ID with Social Security number required.

M-Th 6:30am-9:00pm F 6:30am-8:00pm Sa 7:30am-6:00pm Su 7:30am-4:30pm

Christmas

from page 1

he was also smiling.

Another popular spot during the event was Ben and Jerry’s, which was being frequented on Thursday night by five-year-old Bill Heaton and his family. Bill was enjoying a vanilla ice-cream cone with sprinkles and on his way to seeing Santa.

“I want a Panther football for Christmas. They are my favorite team, and Kerry Collins is my favorite player,” Heaton said. This was Heaton’s first time at the fair.

The Davidson Elementary Student Council set up a concession stand on the Main Street side of the Davidson library. On Wednesday night they sold hot chocolate to help raise money for the school. Tyler Knox, Mayor Knox’s grandson who is a sixth grader at Davidson Elementary was decked out with a sandwich board to advertise the cocoa and said the three-day fair was “pretty cool.”

Hey, Katherine.
How’s that new boyfriend of yours?

KAYAKING, ROCK-CLIMBING, TENNIS, ART, AND OTHER POSITIONS AVAILABLE at Camp Illahee for Girls. Seeking caring, motivated, positive, and qualified instructors willing to give and help build children's self-esteem. Challenging and rewarding--Contact:
P.O. Box 272
Brevard, NC 28712
(704) 883-2181