SPORTS

FEBRUARY 20, 1995

13

Men’s Swimming takes Southerns
Women’s team finishes strong in 4th place

By RICHARD GLENN & WILLIAM ROBERT
Sports writers

Over six months of 6:30 a.m. practices, weekday and weekend trips to away meets, and a two-week training trip in Florida over Christmas break all went into the Davidson men’s and women’s swimming and diving teams’ efforts at the Southern States Swimming and Diving Championships.

SWIMMING & DIVING

And it paid off. The men’s team won the meet for the first time in the meet’s four-year history, and the women placed an impressive fourth in the three-day competition that attracted 12 teams from across the Southeast — from Virginia and Washington, D.C. to Florida.

The men emerged victorious by a 132-point margin over second-place Washington and Lee University. The Wildcats set the tone on the first day of competition with the first of two outstanding performances from freshman Michael Scarbo. Scarbo won the 500 freestyle in team and meet-record form on Thursday. He also won the 1650 free on Saturday, again setting new team and meet records.

Junior co-captain Churchill Hooff earned a victory for the Wildcats in the 200 freestyle. He also placed second in both the 500 and the 1650. Freshman Freddy Schnell was also in top form. Schnell (which, in German, means “fast”) won the 100 and 200 backstroke events, also setting new team records in the process. His 100 time was good enough to qualify him for Junior Nationals.

On the boards, the men’s diving trio of freshman Jonathan Frost, sophomore Michael Hart, and senior co-captain Thad Reece dominated the competition in their events. On 1-meter, Hart placed first, Frost second, and Reece third; on 3-meter, the order was Frost, Hart, and, in fourth place by a slim margin, Reece. Frost and Hart tied for the male Diver of the Meet award.

But the performer of the meet for the men was freshman Matt Buck. Buck won both the 100 and 200 breaststroke, as well as the 200 individual medley. His time in the 100 breast was also a NCAA Division I consideration time; this means Buck has a shot at competing in the national championship meet next month. He is the first swimmer in Davidson history to make a NCAA cut. His outstanding performances earned him the male Most Valuable Swimmer award.

Key performances for the Wildcats also came from freshman Matt Lake, who placed highly in the 200 and 400 IM and 200 breast, and sophomore Tim Lim, who scored in the 50, 100, and 200 free. Others scoring points for the men include senior Andrew Hotchkiss in the 200 butterfly, sophomore Bo Craig in the 200 backstroke, freshman Dave Maddux in the 100 free, and junior William Robert in the 1650.

On the women’s side, the Wildcat swimmers and diver also performed exceptionally well, placing fourth in an extremely competitive meet. They were led by freshman Heather Sweeney, who won both the 200 and 400 IM and placed second in the 200 breast. These performances — all three of which set new Davidson team records — earned her the female Most Valuable Swimmer award for scoring more points than any other female competitor.

Sophomore Susanne Herring also turned in top finishes for the Wildcats. Herring won the 200 free and finished second in the 100 free and third in the 50. Her 100 free time reset her old team record. Freshman Kelly Bolterstein swam extremely well in the sprints as well, finishing third in the 100 free and placing highly in both the 50 and 200 free.

Other key performers for the women include freshman Allison Beebe, who finished well in the 100 and 200 fly and 200 back, and junior co-captain Katharine Welling’s placings in both backstrokes. Also scoring points for the Wildcats were freshman Katie Palmer and sophomore Kathleen Cook in the 100 and 200 fly, junior Jennifer Schuetz in the 100 and 200 breast, and freshman Emily Kuhlman in the 500 and 1650 free.

Brandon Clarke

Churchill Hooff accepts his gold medal in the 200 free from Assistant Swim Coach Sam.Jalet. "Southern States was the culmination of extremely successful seasons for both the men’s and women’s teams. "It is the culmination of all the early morning practices, hard work, and miles we logged on the road and in the pool," says sophomore Kary Thompson. At the individual level, nearly every swimmer achieved personal records; at the team level, the team records speak for themselves: "This is the first winning season since 1981 for the men and the highlight of Davidson swimming since I have been here," says Hooff. "While we all swam well, much of the credit goes to Rich," says Schnell. The men’s and women’s head coach, Rich DeSelm, has completely turned the programs around in his two years at Davidson. "He [DeSelm] is amazing. I have never had a coach as supportive and as talented as Rich," says Thompson. DeSelm’s efforts paid off tangibly at Southern States, as he won the Men’s Coach of the Year award. And as he has put an enormous amount of effort into building the programs, the Wildcat swimming and diving teams should remain forces to contend with for years to come.

Cats put fortress around the Citadel
By Matt Pitzer
Sports Editor

CHARLESTON — All the dice came up sevens. The cards all turned up aces. Everything clicked.

MEN'S BASKETBALL

Choose whatever cliché you wish and it'll probably apply to the men’s basketball team’s 70-51 win over the Citadel Saturday night at McAlister Field House. Almost everything the Wildcats (13-10, 6-5 Southern Conference Northern Division) did seemed just right. Their shots fell, they grabbed the important rebounds, and they shut down the Bulldogs’ offense.

"This is the way we envisioned this team being able to play," coach Bob McKillop said. "We’ve really been working on our confidence, and tonight that confidence was apparent."

Quinn Harwood led four players in double figures with 15 points. Brandon Williams added 14, Ray Minlend had 13, and Chris Alpert scored 10. Davidson bounced back from a tough 91-81 loss Monday at home to East Tennessee State, which was its fourth loss in five games. If the Wildcats had lost Saturday, they would have been dangerously close to falling into the bottom half of the conference, forcing the squad to play an extra game in the conference tournament March 3-5 in Asheville. Now, the Wildcats have a more comfortable two-game lead over fourth-place VMI with just three games left in the regular season.

"We’re back to Davidson basketball," Williams said. "This was exactly everything we wanted to do. This is how we want to play the rest of the season and on into the tournament."

What the Wildcats did was shut down the Bulldogs’ two leading scorers Moncrief Michael and Noy Castillo. In fact, their only weapon was Matt Newman, who with 24 points, scored almost half the Citadel’s total. Davidson, on the other hand, tied a season-high by nailing nine of 13 three-pointers, including three in a row to start the second half. After taking a 32-19 halftime lead, Alpert opened up after the break with a big three-pointer. Castillo responded with a long-range bomb, but Harwood then hit two consecutive threes, giving the Wildcats a 41-22 lead.

"That gave us a big lift, gave us the momentum again," McKillop said. "Chris starting the second half like that gave us the confidence to carry through to the end."

The Bulldogs quickly ran off eight straight points, but Davidson responded with a 10-2 run of its own, giving them an insurmountable 51-32 lead. Although each team wound up with 31 rebounds, the Wildcats seemed to grab all the important ones.

"We got the big offensive rebounds when we needed them," McKillop said.

Starters Harwood, Williams, Jeff Anderson, and George Spain were all slowed by illness, but the performances of Alpert and Minlend more than made up the difference. Davidson travels to VMI tonight for a 7:30 game. Saturday, the squad heads north again to face Marshall, before closing out the regular season next Monday at 7:30 p.m. against Furman.

"This is a great start to the trip," McKillop said. "We knew we had our backs to the wall, and we responded."