NEWS

SGA invites students to biweekly meetings

Staff Writer

SGA President Bill Gullan has instituted bi-weekly meetings involving SGA members and the rest of the Davidson College community to
discuss campus issues.

Attendance at the town meeting will be optional for SGA senators, but Gullan encourages senators and students alike to participate.

The meetings are tentatively scheduled to be held every second Thursday night at seven o’clock and will focus on one
issue of concern for students and the college.

The discussion will be more informal and open than during the SGA’s mandatory Tuesday meetings. Chancellor Dennis Seavers will not
keep minutes and most parliamentary procedure will be suspended.

After a brief introduction by Gullan, an administrator, or a student well informed on the night’s issue, the floor will
open up to anyone wanting to participate.

Gullan has compared the proposed Thursday gathering to a “town meeting.”

According to Gullan, the extra meeting has been proposed because “the SGA has long wanted people to come and participate
in the process of trying to attain progress. We hope this will be a vehicle through which the SGA will
be able to hear from the community on different issues and the community will benefit from a public discussion of
the issues that face Davidson College.”

Reactions from the senators Tuesday night were mostly positive. Junior senator Mike Farley says, “I think the town meetings will
be the most useful thing SGA does if students attend.”

It seems that now, the biggest worry is the reaction and participation from students. Sara Beth Hamlin says “that student
response will predict the success of these meetings.”

Vice President Warren Buford wants students to know that these meetings are not strictly for SGA members to discuss weekly
matters. Instead, they will be useful in involving the community and getting their feedback on important issues.

The SGA is welcoming and encouraging students to attend. The SGA hopes the “second meeting” will provide a more open
environment for students to express their ideas and feelings about what is going on around campus.

The first “town meeting” will be held Thursday night at 7 p.m. in Chambers Gallery. The topic will be campus
beautification.

If all goes well, Sophomore class President Buster Burk believes it will be “student and SGA — one happy town
meeting.”

RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING CORPS

Drive. Intensity. Those aren't words you're likely to see in many course requirements. Then again, Army ROTC is unlike any
other elective. It’s hands-on excitement. ROTC will challenge you mentally and physically through intense leadership training: training that builds character,
self-confidence, and decision-making skills. Again, words other courses seldom use. But they’re the credits you need to succeed in life.

ROTC is open to freshmen and sophomores without obligation and requires about 4 hours per week.

Enroll in MIL 101 - U.S. Army Today. Participation in the Rappelling Clinic satisfies 1 credit requirement for Lifetime Sport.
Call Captain Sean Lynch at 892-2165 for more information or stop by the Army ROTC office: Rm. 2, Basement of
Belk Hall.

The Davidson Pond.

Jay Shultz

Quagmire from page 1

low water.

Also included in the $200,000 plan are restrooms, a play station, a boardwalk, a fishing dock, and nature paths. Phase
two, estimated at $300,000, would include tennis and basketball courts.

Britt anticipates the town will finance the first stage, completing the second stage only if funds can be found elsewhere.

Still, some have objections to altering the pond. Davidson senior Jen Scheutz is writing her thesis on the dynamics of
the pond debate. She worries that the draining would temporarily displace many animals and would be a severe disruption of
the ecosystem.

“As an environmentalist,” she says, “I’d like to work with the black community there [near the pond] with recreation equipment
for social purposes, but not do anything with the water.”

Five years ago, Biology Professor Dr. John Williamson suggested naturalizing the area to “shield the ugliness.” He believes that planting
native trees and plants is essential in helping to minimize erosion. “Grass doesn’t do it,” he says. “It doesn’t hold
sand on those banks ... Five years from now, they will have to dredge again.”

Because the town has been slow to act on local concerns, the pond’s condition has degenerated. The relationship between the
town and African-American residents has correspondingly worsened.

The pond may yet be improved, but not all of the African-American residents there feel it will be in response
to their efforts.

One resident says, “They’re not doing it [now] because most people there are black. Maybe now that some [white] people
are coming into town, they’ll do something about it.”

Interested in photojournalism? Talk to Rob at -2148.

WELCOME BACK STUDENTS!

Sculptured Nails * French Manicures Pedicures * Tanning Booth

At The Duchess we offer you a day of stress-free pampering.

New additions to our store:
- Facials
- Skin care
- Facial Tanning

Ask for Peggy

TANNING SPECIAL: 10 visits for $33.00

CONNIE AND MICHELLE: Full Set of Nails for only $40.00 (thru February)

Located at the Chair Factory 20700 N. Main St., Cornelius (704) 892 - 7030
