OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1995 Tim Saintsing and Tim O’Keefe

We’re the Wildcats, not the Sedate-cats

Picture the typical Davidson Wildcats men’s basketball game. In one section, students are on their feet yelling, cheering, and making
noise. To their immediate left are the Helen Kellers of Belk Arena—those who sit quietly, clap occasionally, and quietly pass
judgment on the game before them. The latter is how fans at any Division I basketball game should act, according
to Ken May’s article “Settle Down, Crazy Cats!” We disagree.

In this article, Ken implies that the Crazy Cats are just too loud and slandering for our Southern, conservative college.
Guess what—we’re the WILD-cats, not the SEDATE-cats. Shouldn’t our fans display the same wild enthusiasm and spirit that our players
and coaches display on and off the court? Our players and coaches are working hard to make their programs the
best in the country, so why don’t we support them in any way we can to help them achieve this
goal?

How many Duke fans, a.k.a. the “Cameron Crazies,” go to games for a nice sport like synchronized swimming or lawn
bowling? College basketball is the biggest and loudest spectator sport in America, and it didn’t get that way by genteel
cheering.

Ken also states that our spectators should cheer for those “highly trained athletes who grace Belk Arena,” such as Frankie
King or Randolph Childress. We agree, they are good players, but we have the same hard-working, dedicated players right here
at Davidson who deserve the same, if not more, appreciation and admiration than the “big-name” players get. Are we supposed
to go to the game to watch Frankie or Randolph and not be awed by our own players who are
of equal or better caliber? Do you know which college had the NCAA Division I scoring percentage leader last year?
Not UNC Chapel Hill, not UMass, not Wake Forest, but Davidson. Davidson’s own George Spain. We think that deserves our
awe and admiration.

It was Jermaine Parker, the UNC Charlotte center, who in the Charlotte Observer on December 17, 1994, said, “We pretty
much treat it [Belk Arena] as a neutral court.” The embarrassment is not that the Crazy Cats are obnoxious or
loud. The embarrassment is that teams enter Belk Arena with that “neutral court” mindset, simply because Davidson fans follow Ken’s
lead. What is the purpose of a home court advantage when the fans only clap politely as if they were
watching a golf tournament? The embarrassment for Davidson fans is that few cheer for their school and many lack the
spirit that the Crazy Cats promote.

Davidson is a big-time basketball program that depends on its students for support. Ask any player or coach which they
prefer: a polite clapping crowd or a loud, gym-rocking crowd that other teams fear playing before. We dare to say
that Coach McKillop and his Wildcats would prefer the latter. The players want to know their school, their fans, are
supporting them one hundred percent. Ken concludes by saying, “If not for the sake of opponents, Davidson’s reputation, or my
eardrums—for your own sakes, do yourself

Evolution from page 6

what I am asking for. My reason for writing the article and my basic thesis behind it is that science
is based on fact—not faith. However, evolution requires the faith normally relegated by science to religion. My whole point is
that the theory of evolution is being taught as fact in the schools and has become a central idea in
society, just like Christianity was several hundred years ago. But unlike Christian ideas, evolution is based on science, which is
based on facts, not faith. I doubt I will be able to convince everyone of the flaws in evolution. My
purpose was to point out that there are flaws which are never addressed when it is taught. Something with as
many flaws as evolution, or something that cannot be reproduced in a lab (which is normally required before something is
accepted by science) should not be taught as fact. It is. That is wrong.

Sincerely, Eric Sapp ’98

PRESIDENT BILL CLINTONa favor: act your age and SHUT UP!” We repeal and reverse Ken’s advice. Change the reputation of
Davidson fans by cheering wildly for your Wildcats, keeping the refs on their toes, and taunting the opponent. Ken and
his crowd can learn a few things from Davidson’s most dedicated fans, the Pines community. Half the college has less
spirit than the Pines section, unless it’s the last five minutes of a close game. How many students bother to
even wear the school’s colors, let alone hand-knit sweaters that are the pride of every Pines fan? At our home
games, we would much rather have a red-sweatered Pines section than a white-gloved Ken May section.

Ike Bailey

Is there a crisis in black leadership? In Race Matters, Cornel West brings up the question of African-American leadership and
answers resoundingly with: “There has not been a time in the history of black people in this country
