4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 27, 1995

Molinek named Volunteer Firefighter of the Year

After only two years of service, the Little librarian’s rep catches fire

By Patricia Evans
Staff writer

Walking into the library or watching a firetruck as it heads down the hill, you will see the Davidson area’s
Volunteer Firefighter of the Year for 1994. Frank Molinek was recently voted Volunteer of the Year by his colleagues after
less than two years of service. Molinek answers almost every call 24 hours a day and keeps his firefighting gear
in his car at all times. One third of the calls that the fire department and Molinek receive come from
right here on campus. Molinek adds to the spirit of community and volunteerism that sparked his moving to Davidson and
joining the Davidson College Library staff. Satisfying a childhood dream, Molinek feels like he is giving back to the community.
The same spirit of community and public service pervades the library’s staff. The staff shares public service duties for the
community and the campus despite job title or position. Community spirit is what permeates Frank Molinek’s decisions to work at
Davidson and to volunteer his time to fight fires. “Service is part of what we are here for,” he says.

Frank Molinek and student prepare for the worst.
Sybil Jate

Harassment of international students proves to be minimal

By Jennifer Kerns
Staff writer

Last semester, rumors flew around campus that international students were being harassed. In response, a student wrote a letter to
the editor expressing her disapproval. Saad Gul, the International representative of SGA, responded in writing that internationals had not been
harassed. Consequently, Saad Gul and the International Student Association (ISA) conducted a study to determine the extent of the alleged
harassment. On March 14, Gul presented his results to the SGA. “There were several incidents reported, but only one was
fairly serious and involved voice mail messages. The four others were relatively minor,” Gul says. Berna Demiralp, President of ISA,
agrees. “The incidents were scattered... but not major. They are only an unfortunate part of life. The incidents were individual
and personal. We must be aware of them... If there are any harassment problems in the future, we can see
the background here, and then deal with them.”

Gul closes by saying that the majority of students have been very cooperative with the international students. “I want to
stress that most Davidson students have been very nice about it.”

Honor from page 1

Weaknesses in the System

The committee found that, for the most part, students and faculty alike are pleased with the Honor Code and think
it is extremely important to keep it alive at Davidson. However, there are areas of common concern and confusion. First
of all, there seems to be growing concern about petty theft. People are becoming a bit more careful about taking
care of their personal belongings. Secondly, there seems to be disagreement over whether or not Honor Code violation punishments are
too strict or too lenient. A third fear common to both students and faculty is that students aren’t turning each
other in because of close friendships, fraternity and eating house allegiances, or teamLoyalties. However, this fear can be partially discredited.
According to the Dean of Students Office, students turn in violators as often as faculty members. Another important weakness of
the Honor System which the committee found is that its presence is not felt strongly on campus. One reason for
this apparent lack of presence is that since almost every honor trial is closed, students are unaware of what the
Honor Council is doing or even that a violation has occurred.

The committee deliberated and came up with several recommendations to improve the system as it exists.

Recommendations

Gaston feels that one of the most important suggestions is to improve the presentation of the Honor Code at freshmen
orientation by making it more ceremonious and by having smaller discussion groups. He feels that the weaknesses of the system
are not intrinsic but are primarily the result of a lack of awareness among both students and professors. Buford agrees.
He says, “All of the recommendations are geared towards making students more aware of the system.”

The two committee co-chairs say that faculty members, especially new ones, should have an orientation to the system. There is
strong support for the recommendation that The Davidsonian publish a list of all violations and sanctions (names withheld) at the
end of each semester. This way, the anonymity of students involved will be protected, but students will be made more
aware of the activities of the Honor Council and reminded of the seriousness of the Honor Code.

The Follow-Up

None of the suggestions of the ad hoc committee are in any way binding to the Dean of Students Office
or the Honor Council, but Buford stated at the meeting, “We spent five months working hard on this, and we
hope they’ll take our recommendations into consideration.”

In a few weeks, a new administration will take the helm of the Honor Council. Until that time, it is
difficult to predict what, if any, reforms will take place. “I don’t think that the incoming chairperson can avoid seeing
this report as important,” said Buford.

The work of the ad hoc committee is done, but comments and suggestions are needed if changes are to take
place. Interested students can pick up a copy of the committee’s report at the Union desk and are encouraged to
express their responses to members of the ad hoc committee.

WRITE FOR THE DAVIDSONIAN.

SUMMER SCHOOL

Be a Summer Tar Heel!

Session I: May 18-June 23, 1995
Session II: June 27-August 1, 1995

Summer School
CB#3340, 200 Pettigrew Hall
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3340
Phone: 919-962-1009
Fax: 919-962-2752

Students from any college or university, teachers, rising high school seniors, and any others who are not enrolled at UNC-CH
may apply as Visiting Summer Students for first, second, or both sessions.

UNC-CH offers, during two 5 and a half week sessions, over 900 courses in 45 disciplines. A typical course load
per session is 6 semester hours.

Approximate Cost per session: tuition and fees of $125 PLUS $47 per credit hour for NC resident undergraduates or $341
per credit hour for nonresident undergraduates.

When requesting a catalog and application, please mention seeing this ad in The Davidsonian for special attention.
