OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1995

Michael Havlik

The rankings plummet: A parent’s perspective

Davidson College’s #21 ranking in the U.S. News and World Report college poll has apparently generated a lot of discussion
on campus. As the parent of an applicant to the Class of 2000, I would like to share my thoughts
with the Davidson community.

My daughter is looking closely at four colleges: Amherst, Dartmouth, Colgate, and of course, Davidson. Two weekends ago, Jen (my
daughter) and I visited Davidson for a second time to learn more about the women’s soccer program and to attend
the Discover Davidson program. Jen had an opportunity to attend classes on Friday, observe soccer practice, talk with coaches Kevin
Hundley and Brit Soderberg, and meet a few of the players, in addition to attending information sessions on Sunday with
professors representing the biology and French departments.

Based purely on rankings, it’s a no-brainer that Amherst or Dartmouth should be her first choice. However, several intangible factors
come into play which cannot be measured by survey statistics: the openness and accessibility of the faculty; the feel of
the campus; the fit of the soccer program, including the teaching ability of the coaches; the friendliness of the students;
etc. Let’s assume there is no clear-cut “winner.”

Unfortunately, this is the reason why college rankings are somewhat meaningful. If the potential applicant is undecided, the rankings get
a lot of play from top high school students and top employers. However, the more critical issue is why the
sharp drop from #8 to #21. Although I view the rankings as an indicator versus a precise measure, I am
concerned (not panicked) with the decline as a precursor to future problems. I think there are none, but at a
cost of $100,000 for a college education, I would like to feel a bit more comfortable.

Quite frankly, I would not rate Dartmouth or Amherst (#1) higher than Colgate (#17) or Davidson. The Davidson faculty appear
to be top-notch and passionate about teaching. Dr. Verna Case and Dr. David Grant were particularly impressive at the Sunday
biology information session. The telephone calls and face-to-face discussions we have had with coaches Hundley and Soderberg have been positive
and honest. The students are intelligent and friendly, the campus is beautiful, and there seems to be a strong sense
of community with the town. From what I’ve observed, Davidson is an outstanding institution — but so are Amherst, Dartmouth,
and Colgate.

As a Colgate alumnus, I am speaking from experience when I say that Davidson suffers from a recognition problem, as
did Colgate (“Isn’t that where they make toothpaste?”). Many high school guidance counselors and prospective employers outside the South do
not know the Davidson name. At #21 on the charts, the college may not serve as a tie-breaker.

The above comments are interesting but not all that actionable. I have many suggestions for you to consider but in
the interest of space, I will highlight two:

1.) The endowments per student at Amherst and Dartmouth are huge when compared to Davidson. Realistically, schools like Colgate and
Davidson cannot compete in the arena of financial aid and merit scholarships due to financial constraints. The alumni “giving rate”
at Davidson needs to increase, and I think current students and alumni need to work on this issue immediately to
improve the school’s ability to attract top students and faculty. The #21 ranking should serve as a call to action!

2.) The faculty is clearly Davidson’s greatest resource, and I believe they can make a major difference in attracting first-rate
students from across the country. I am convinced that if the professors (on a volunteer basis) selectively “recruit” high school
guidance counselors and top high school students throughout the country, Davidson’s national reputation will improve.

In closing, view the college rankings as an opportunity for improvement. Remember, whether your college is ranked #8 or #21,
I doubt if anything of substance has changed from one day to the next. I would not trade my four
years at Colgate for anything in the world; I hope you feel the same way about your Davidson experience.

Homecoming: Katie McKelvie

The date ritual

As part of a new series on the mating rituals of Davidson students, this week’s article focuses on homecoming. For
keen observers of Davidson student life, homecoming is definitely the most fascinating event of the year. Without a doubt, the
most interesting aspect of the homecoming festivities occurs before the actual weekend festivities: getting a date.

Basically, date-getting transforms a large number of both sexes on campus into complete idiots. There’s no mincing words here. There’s
no way to get around it. If you want a date, you have to go out a lot, make cocktail
party conversation to the right people, and avoid unsavory members of the opposite sex. In other words, it bares the
raw,Machiavellian social tactics you haven’t put into full force since middle school. If you’re a guy, you have to time
your approach so as not to ask a date too early. Early asking equals eagerness; jumping the gun could give
your prospective date, whom you probably only sort-of-like, the impression that you really like her. That spells danger. Second of
all, you have to appear clean and presentable but not noticeably different than prior weeks. For those who really think
ahead, another consideration in the date process would be picking someone who would get along with your friends at dinner
and who would get along with your friends’ dates. For freshmen, you have to figure out if you even know
any members of the opposite sex. This all takes some thought and planning. Of course, if you’re PiKA you just
ask someone Friday morning.

For the women students on campus, the game is a little different. (A discussion of why we only have male-oriented
schoolwide date functions is another beast altogether. Personally, I think both sexes have it just as bad during homecoming. However,
as some recourse, eating house members do reverse homecoming roles at other date functions later in the fall.) While the
guys have to appear to nonchalantly ask, we have to nonchalantly wait. This involves going out to Court parties, going
to the library and sitting in a high traffic area, wearing matching clothes, saying hi to selected people in the
halls, and making inane conversation in the Union Café. This is all in the ridiculous attempt to appear fun and
laid back — the perfect 48-hour date. However, in our favor, women also have huge veto power. Although this is
rarely exercised, it is a formidable scare tactic. Of course, I won’t give out any secrets of how it can
be done, but just remember, guys, never use voice mail, and if she says she’ll think about it, you’re in
trouble.

This year, homecoming promises to be as entertaining as ever. However, remember, it is complicated by Fall Break. Because this
vacation essentially discounts the week before homecoming, the date asking period will most definitely begin earlier. In fact, I have
it from a reliable source that it started on Sunday night. Still, some guys will inevitably forget to ask a
date before the break and realize this on the Thursday before homecoming during their 10:30 class. Don’t worry, you still
have hope; there’s always Ladies Lock-In on Thursday night!

Jeff Kent

The art of doing nothing

People at this school need to relax. I realize this subject was touched on earlier by my roommate, Jack “chill
like a fan” Slosson, but I do not feel people have taken Mr. Chill like a fan’s advice to heart.
Obviously, the academic climate here creates enough stress for two or three lifetimes. However, I feel the high tension level
stretches far beyond the famed walls of Chambers. Davidson places an incredible pressure on its students through the Honor Code,
the Code of Responsibility, the renowned Davidson workload, the pressure to succeed after school, and the gung-ho “work hard, play
hard” mentality. Coming from Davidson you are supposed to be perfect; the ideal Davidson student never lies, never damages things,
always studies when it is time for studying and always blows off steam when it is time to blow off
steam. Everything we do here is strictly regimented in categories. People feel that if they are not doing one thing
they must engage in another. What’s wrong with doing nothing every once in a while?

Let’s be realistic. Nobody—not even a Davidson student—is perfect. Davidson’s rigorous agenda has proven its worth in creating ambitious, motivated
people who are ready to conquer the world when they graduate. But at the same time, students here often get
the impression that every ounce of time is precious and must not be wasted on idle activity. A common Davidson
student bears an expression of discomfort and anxiety when forced to sit and do nothing. Time is precious, very precious,
but setting aside time to lounge on a lawn during a pleasant fall day or relax on a couch with
no particular goal are just as important for mental health as studying for a test, practicing for a sport, or
working on an art project.

As one who has realized that I will never get a job based on my grades, chilling out and working
on my personality is my only option. But for those of you who have not worked out doing nothing to
an art form, I suggest you try it just a little. It clears your mind and makes you a more
enjoyable person to be around. Seriously, who do you think members of the opposite sex would be more likely to
date, a regimented, anal, study-crazy person, or a suave, personable, relaxed person? If you answered the former then you need
serious work. Just try the nothing thing—if not for yourself, then for the rest of us.
