OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1995

Should sororities replace eating houses?
Barbara Harvey

At the January 24 forum about a possible women’s Greek system, much was expressed about eating houses — the traditions,
the unique structure, and the many problems. Students: men and women, homosexuals and heterosexuals, English majors and math majors, Patterson
Court members and independents. Why not sororities and eating houses? Some people at the forum feared that the two could
not coexist. I beg to differ!

Lee Hernberg, President of the Alpha Delta Pi chapter at Presbyterian College, stated that their eating house, WISH, still exists.
Presbyterian College has three sororities for its 700 women while also having WISH on campus. Becky Plesko, President of the
Chi Omega chapter at Wake Forest, said that two “societies” existed along with a few sororities for several years until
the administration proclaimed that the risk of local women’s houses was too great and declared that they would no longer
insure them.

I have nothing against the current system. In fact, I am now one of the two service coordinators for Rusk
House. I do have a problem, however, with the attitude of those who insist that eating houses should be the
only option. It is a strike against the women at Davidson not to have the same opportunities as men. After
college, women are limited to Davidson graduates for contacts while men have a nation full of “brothers” that outnumber our
alumni by thousands. It is only reasonable to insist that women be allowed the same advantage. Not doing so is
oppressive.

People wanted to know if it would be necessary to have national sororities or if we could just try to
improve our eating houses. I think the answer to both of these questions is YES! Davidson is a college that
strives to meet the needs of every student.

Tony Tuntasit

In sickness and in health

At seven years old, I had devised a foolproof plan for skipping a day of school: I'd run hot tap-water
over a thermometer, soak my forehead with a damp cloth, emit intermittent moans of “Oh, how my belly hurts,” and
then wait patiently for my mom to come rushing in. With these elaborate theatrics, I had handily convinced my mom
that I was undoubtedly suffering from a 109° fever, Malaria-related sweats, and appendicitis — maladies which she quickly cured me
of by dragging me out of bed, dressing me in tight corduroy Rough-riders, and throwing me on Mrs. Cohen’s bus
number 21 to Shorecrest Elementary.

Lately, though, I’d do just about anything to get one of those motherly home remedies that consisted of chicken noodle
soup, garlic beads, exorcism, Ovaltine, and a green-colored elixir made from the root of something called “rhubarb.” Because when I
have a cold, one of those “tough mutational viral dohickeys” that leave me whining for mom. And because missing class
would stunt my academic growth (Attendance Policy), I trudge on. Unfortunately, I didn’t have the materials (food, a stove, and
a black cauldron) necessary to concoct a home remedy.

Well, I happen to find the cold stuff anyway and then was left with the excruciating decision of choosing a
cold medicine from the vast selection of remedies. There were 6-hour, 12-hour, 24-hour release Extentabs, pills that guaranteed NO DROWSINESS,
and others that said GUARANTEED TO KNOCK YOU OUT SILLY; and then there were products that were guaranteed to cure
aches and nasal congestion. (Translation: I don’t know buddy, I just got hired an hour ago. I don’t do questions
yet.)

ME: Huh? (Translation: Huh?)to be FAST ACTING and others with a REALLY REALLY SLOW RELEASE. The more expensive panaceas were
products that combined their big-name services like the Buffrin PLUS Dimetapp; Alka Seltzer AND Metamucil; and so forth. Then there
were these dissolvable orange solutions that seemed to do just about everything: “Relieves the aches and pains of the flu,
clears up nasal congestion, eases a bad cough, and even resolves the health care problem!” But none of these products
seemed really necessary, so I settled for modern technology, and Shannon, a helpful, pimply-faced salesperson down at Revco. Our conversation
was quite enlightening:

ME: Excuse me, where is your cold medicine? (Translation: What on earth is going to save me from this plague?)
SHANNON: Well, our primary Cold Management Center is adjacent to the Housewares Department. I’d recommend Guaifenesin for that cough.

So I just grabbed some Tylenol and Sudafed and got out of there as quickly as possible. So I guess
I’ll be OK. I drink plenty of Country Time Lemonade, pop my Tylenol and Sudafed, go to class whenever possible,
and get as much rest as possible. Hopefully, I can beat this cold before the end of the semester. No
excuses. Which reminds me, I think I'll end this article now. This 109° fever is killing me.

WITH Actifed; Robitussin, Advil,
~ Ken May

Way too seriously

Way to go Ken! Here it is, not even a month into the new year, and you’ve already broken your
main resolution. That wouldn’t be so bad if you’d have kept it to yourself. But no, you had to go
spewing all over the pages of The Davidsonian, giving everybody advice. Like how you and everyone else should focus on
living in the present and not getting overwhelmed or caught up in things. What good is a prophet who doesn’t
heed his own word, anyway?

Actually, it's not quite that bad. I didn’t really flat out break my New Year’s resolution. But a shameful incident
last week let me know that I was going about this “living in the present” stuff all wrong. Last week,
I had this intramural basketball game. No problem, right? Just some low-key, calorie-burning fun for the whole family. That is,
until we started to play like cow manure. I got so frustrated and aggravated by our poor performance (mine especially)
that I kinda threw a little temper tantrum, saying several nasty things to the opponents. And the referees. Basically, I
made a total fool out of myself.

After regaining my cool, I thought about what a dingleberry I'd been. The thing that disturbed me most was that
I let myself get so serious about something so trivial. That’s when I realized that I had broken my resolution
and had actually given some pretty bad advice to my readers. What’s the value of living for the moment and
not getting overwhelmed by life if you still take life too seriously? Jack squat, in my opinion!

So I guess I’m going to have to update my words of wisdom. Life is no good if you take
it too seriously. The true joy of living in the present moment comes in understanding that one’s personal happiness and
fulfillment are realized only in the here and now and nowhere else. At least in my experience, such fulfillment and
happiness rarely accompany stress, agitation, worry, and other serious stuff like that. Those things only get in the way. Sounds
like this kind of living should be pretty light-hearted and carefree, eh?

So, I guess I must apologize — to my readers for misleading you, to my intramural foes for mistreating you,
and to myself for getting way too serious. If you still give any credence to what I’m saying, which definitely
puts your faculties in serious question, try to live in and make the most of the present. But please don’t
take it too seriously. After all, it is only your life we’re talking about!

KABLOOEY by Blue Bane

YOU'LL FALL: cop ANYTHING
