THE DAVIDSONIAN

Take it in, rake it up.

Pulitzer prize-winning author William Styron to visit

By JOHN COOPENHAVER
Arts & Living Editor

Rob Kosicki

Rarely does Davidson College have a chance to bring an author as esteemed as William Styron to campus. Styron, born on June 11, 1925, spent his childhood in Newport News, Virginia. Although he dabbled in writing throughout high school, he became a serious writer during his year at Davidson in 1942. After one year of college (in the summer of 1943), he transferred to Duke University. Later, from 1944 to 1945, he served as a lieutenant in the Marine Corps. Once his service was over, he returned to college, graduated, and then in 1947 went to New York City to work as an associate editor for Whittlesey House. Later he moved over to the trade division of McGraw-Hill.

After being fired from McGraw-Hill for throwing water-balloons out the office window, he started working on his first major work, Lie Down in Darkness, which, once published, was recognized as a brilliant first novel. From this point, his writing career flourished, and he has produced many award-winning pieces. His most famous novels are The Confessions of Nat Turner and Sophie’s Choice. Other books include: Set This House on Fire (1960), The Quiet Dust and Other Writings (1982), Darkness Visible: A Memoir of Madness (1990), and A Tidewater Morning: Three Tales of Youth (1993).

Styron, the McGraw Lecturer for 1995-96, will be coming to campus on Thursday, November 9, and Friday, November 10. See the box for the schedule of events related to Mr. Styron’s visit.

Styron Schedule

* Monday, November 6, at 7:30 p.m. in Perkins Auditorium, the film version of Sophie’s Choice will be shown.
* Thursday, November 9, at 7:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium, Mr. Styron will talk about depression and read from Darkness Visible.
* Friday, November 10, at 12:30 p.m. in Perkins Auditorium, Mr. Styron will meet with the Senior English Colloquium and answer questions about Sophie’s Choice, the film, and about the relation of the novel to the Holocaust.

ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1995

Shakespeare with a twist

Twelfth Night opens on Hodson stage

By KATIE MCALISTER
Staff Writer

This month promises to be a time of enlightening dramatics, when the Davidson College Department of Theater and Speech presents Shakespeare’s Twelfth Night. This performance offers a twist, however, on the original Shakespearean play. The plot is still basically the same, yet the play itself is set in the 1930s. What was the driving force behind Director Alex Pinkston’s decision to transpose the play to the 20th century? It is understandable that Shakespeare’s plays in their day drew in large audiences, as many of the jokes and actions of the dramas were relevant to the times. But are Shakespeare’s ingenious comedic interludes still appealing to modern-day audiences who have little to no context from which to comprehend the amusing moments? It is with these thoughts in mind that the director made a few alterations to the original play. The objective is to involve a modern audience in the beauty and eloquence of Shakespearean language, without butchering the play itself. Hence, this dramatic interpretation. In order to gain a greater amount of audience involvement, this version of Twelfth Night exhibits the excitement of the ‘30s through the inclusion of music from that time period.

The cast performs the spoken portions of the play, with the inclusion of musical comedy numbers that are reminiscent of the flavor of the ‘30s. Pinkston explains that he “wants to get the audience involved more, so, of course, we play on all the delightful elements of ‘30s musicals!”

The setting is near a Mediterranean island called Illyria. The island is governed by a Duke, named Count Orsino who, as explained by cast member Nick Paul, is “a bachelor in the hot pursuit of the Lady Olivia, proprietress of the Club Twelfth Night.” The play continues to unravel into a story of characters in disguise, impossible love triangles, and as Paul describes, “a story of misadventure and many other stories of foolery and misunderstandings.”

As for Pinkston’s explanation for his non-purist attitude towards Shakespearean writing, he explains that he doesn’t believe that one can be a purist when it comes down to it. He explains, “Shakespeare certainly can be done as it was originally written. I’ve seen Twelfth Night that way and was in it that way once, and it works on a slightly humorous level for us today.

"But, I want a bit more farce, a little more physical business.” Pinkston has certainly achieved those goals with his interpretation of Twelfth Night. It is sure to be an interesting and exciting production! The performance dates are November 8-11 at 8 p.m., and November 12 at 2 p.m.

CORNELIUS COFFEE

Cornelius goes Bohemian with Caribou Coffee. Going for a cafe latte, a cappuccino, an espresso, or an herbal tea. And coming soon will be a new bagel shop next door.

Rob Kosicki

Spring Break Early Specials!

Bahamas Party Cruise 7 Days

$279! 15 Meals & 6 Parties!
Cancun & Jamaica From $359!
Panama City Room With Kitchen $119! Key West! Daytona! Cocoa Beach! Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/15! Hurry!

1-800-678-6386

FREE TRIPS & CASH!

Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America’s #1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL NOW! (800) 95-BREAK!

A New and Exciting Place for Hair & Nail Services

20430-2 Norman Crossing Shopping Center I-77 Exit 28, behind Wendy’s

895-0404

20% Student Discount with Davidson College ID
*Please specify Master Designer when calling