THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1994

Will Foy and an alternative radio person. Jay Schultz

Sig Ep wins national award

WALT-zing nearer to student radio

By Meg Wolff
Staff Writer

Student-run college radio at Davidson came one step closer to being a reality last week as WALT held its first
organizational meeting on Monday night. Davidson College has not had a student-run radio station since a few attempts failed in
the 1980s. WDAYV, Davidson’s current radio station, was originally student-run, but was removed from student control because of improper management
and failure to follow regulations.

In the fall of 1992, student interest in college radio was revived, but the plan to form a station was
stonewalled until Spring 1994. Last spring, 30 students petitioned the Activities Tax Council (ATC) and the Union for funding. WALT
received more funding than expected from the ATC and also received a one-time only start-up grant of $2000 from the
Union.

Churchill Hooff, WALT’s station manager, sees WALT as serving several functions: “Obviously, we want to provide music, but we also
want to be an alternative source of news and entertainment. This is really a great opportunity for anyone who has
ever wanted to be involved with broadcast radio.” Hooff hopes that WALT will be a source of information particularly relevant
to the Davidson community. He says, “Our name, WALT, implies alternative, but that does not necessarily mean that all we
will play is ‘alternative music.’ We want to be an alternative to other stations, playing what students want to hear
and telling students the things that are going on at Davidson.”

Buchanan Cup marks the highest undergrad honor

By Russ Tarver
Associate Editor

At a biennial national conference held at Disney World last August, a committee presented the Epsilon chapter of the Sigma
Phi Epsilon fraternity with the Buchanan Cup, the highest award given to an undergraduate chapter. Named in honor of past
Grand President and Treasurer Edwin Buchanan, the award is given to 30 of the 275 chapters of the fraternity. The
last time Davidson’s chapter earned the award was in 1975.

In awarding the cup, the national fraternity said, “While a consistent, quality, performing chapter for many years, this chapter has
recently performed at a level far above its competitors. The chapter’s grade point average is nearly three-tenths of a point
above the all-student average, ranking the chapter first academically with a 3.3. The chapter is first among seven fraternities in
manpower with 93 men.”

Sophomores Alan Staggers and Ian Buchanan traveled to Florida to receive the award. Chapter President Matt Griffith says, “Given the
hard work that we’ve put in over the past few years, we were all very honored and very pleased.” Senior
member Bill Buff says, “I wish we had drunk more and studied less, but now we have a big cup
to drink out of.”

Sig Ep brothers stand proudly around their Buchanan Cup.is encouraging student participation in every aspect of the station, from being
a DJ to the technical aspect. Right now, WALT is especially interested in fundraising and establishing contact people for news
articles. WALT hopes to begin broadcasting sometime in mid-October on 1510 AM, once the antenna for the station is raised
atop Belk. Meanwhile, WALT will continue to have informational meetings on Mondays at 9 p.m. in the Union. Will Foy,
the station program director, is excited by the prospect of WALT. He says, “We're interested in being on the air,
staying on the air, and doing it right this time.”

Brandon Clarke

Wild Man from page 1

scenes. His work in the Panthers’ locker room is involved, but well worth it. Because the Panthers’ home stadium in
Charlotte is currently under construction, Smith drives 140 miles to Clemson’s Memorial Stadium, where the Panthers will play their home
games throughout 1995. The night before game day, x-ray machinery is set up, helmets are cleaned, and lockers are organized.
On game day, once the Panthers have stepped onto the playing field, Smith and others transform the locker room into
half-time mode, setting up projectors and other necessary equipment. During the game’s final half, the locker room must be prepared
for the post-game activities. Though no longer on the field, Smith still finds himself working in the midst of the
action; the locker room is not immune to the tension and pressure present on the field. His work puts him
“very close to the players” who, despite the pressure they face, Smith says, “are always professional and polite.” Smith appreciates
this contact with the human aspect of the game, and says that he owes a lot to Dan Morphis, Equipment
Manager at Davidson, who offered encouragement and advice as Smith began his involvement with the Panthers. Morphis, who has worked
with the San Diego Chargers and the Washington Redskins at summer training camps in the past, also works in the
Panthers’ locker room with Smith. Morphis explains that the job of those responsible for locker room preparation is to “keep
things running smoothly” and to do “whatever it takes to win.” Looking toward the future, Smith predicts that the Panthers
are headed for great success and says he feels “awfully lucky” to be a part of the effort. Even now,
Smith says, “I’m pinching myself. I’ve been waiting for the Panthers to come here for 40 years.”

RESERVE OFFICER TRAINING CORPS

Top Row: (left to right) Paul Dryden, Chris Frederick, Kevin Gaunt, William Cowan, Janet Aardema, Lisa Armstrong. (Not pictured): Henry
Richmond

Bottom Row: Ellis Boyle, Gray Broughton, Thomas Dugan, Richard Glenn.

Every year Army ROTC awards thousands of merit-based scholarships to qualified students around the country and right here in your
school. These scholarships pay most tuition, as well as books, lab fees and an allowance up to $1000/year. But more
than that, Army ROTC is on a course that will develop your leadership and confidence, qualities that will lead to
success.

ARMY ROTC SALUTES SCHOLARSHIP WINNERS.
