THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING ~~ October 11, 1995 13

The Emptys fill 900 Room

By John Hong
Staff Writer

So what does a barefoot Japanese man have in common with four Caucasian males? If you were not in the Union on Monday night, probably nothing. But if you happened to be one of the many Davidson students gathered together in the 900 Room that night, you would know that these five fellows together are called The Emptys.

No, none of the band members had on a flannel or a pair of cut-up jeans. Nobody screamed into the microphone, nor did anybody bash his instrument on the stage floor. Basically, The Emptys are not your typical ‘90s band ensconced in the Seattle scene like many of the bands that have emerged in recent years. Instead, the crowd that gathered in the room witnessed a jam-oriented rock band with its roots founded in jazz and Latin music, providing a unique and appealing sound.

Well, appealing to most, that is. A select few did not seem to enjoy what they heard and saw Monday night. Several voiced their opinions, saying that the group had no diversity within their selection of songs. “Everything sounded the same,” complained one student, while another murmured on about how the band was just too loud. In support of these comments, it is safe to say that it was tough to distinguish one song from another. Each and every song had the guitar or sax solo in the middle, which ended with the crash of the cymbals. The many guitar solos might have been overwhelming to those who only wanted a few of the solos, as was the case with the powerful saxophone which demanded a lot of attention.

However, the majority of those in the 900 Room really enjoyed what The Emptys had to offer. For many of us, The Emptys was an obscure local band that the Union happened to find and bring over to campus to alleviate all of our Monday blues. Several students knew who The Emptys were by sheer chance that they played a pitch on the first Aware CD. But for the most part, everybody who came walked in not knowing what to expect.

Some people, including myself, expected nothing. We could not have been more surprised. The Emptys opened immediately with a great song — which was pretty much expected — but continued then to throw great tunes at us one after another. Personally, I was amazed by the show. I was impressed by the talent of every one of the members in the band. Senior Will Foy could not agree more: “The percussions were excellent, and there was a good melodic harmony between the guitar and sax.”

It is probably true that many of the songs may have sounded repetitive, but I still could not get enough of the harmonizing riffs between Doug Derryberry and Peter Fraize, the lead guitarist and saxophonist, respectively. Although they have been playing together for less than two years now, it seemed as though The Emptys had been a band since high school just because their individual sounds mixed so well together.

The Emptys put on a long show without any breaks, which might have led to the nearly “empty” room by the time the show was over. But those of us who stayed for the duration got our full share of the band. The finale was loud, to say the least, much to the delight of those few who were dancing. Leland Nakamura, the drummer, was pounding on his drum set while Doug and Peter jammed on. When the dust cleared, we wereLeft with dozens of sweaty people packing the stage to shoot the breeze with the band members and grab an autograph while they were at it, The Emptys were a success. A few people may have differing opinions, but most of us will attest that the performance was a pleasant and rocking surprise. And for you converted fans out there, do not despair if what you got on the "Bridge Across the Oceans" CD was not all what you expected. Their next album is due out in a matter of a week. It just might be a bigger and better surprise than expected.

Cookin’ from page 11

Serve over linguini. Garlic bread also makes an excellent addition to this exquisite feast. We recommend Cole’s garlic mini-loaf found in the frozen food section. Just thaw and put in the oven for 5-10 minutes. This recipe should provide more than enough for everyone. In fact, leftovers taste even better late at night after working up an appetite tearing up the dance floor on Patterson Court. We hope you enjoy this recipe, and feel free to give us a call with any questions or comments.

First Ever SGA Town Meeting
Campus Beautification

An open discussion on ways to improve and preserve the aesthetic beauty of Davidson College.
7:00 pm Thursday, September 14th
Chambers Gallery
All are welcome!

ON THE SCENE

Monday
Dr. Gary Schenk, a Davidson graduate from Gaston Family Doctors, speaks on “Can You Live to Be 100?” in Chambers Gallery from 7 to 8:30 p.m.
Davidson United Methodist Church Bible Study will be gathering in the Morrison Room from 9 to 10 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java Cafe will open its doors at the Union Outpost from 8 p.m. to 12 a.m.

Tuesday
Women’s Issues Book Club Workshop will meet in the Big Screen Room from 5:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m.
Koinonia Fellowship will gather in Phi Hall from 7 to 9 p.m.
Coffeehouse will be open with fresh coffee and doughnuts in the College Union’s 900 Room from 8:30 to 11 a.m.
21-Year-Old Night will be in the 900 Room from 10:30 p.m. to 12:30 a.m.
Jumpin’ Java Cafe will open its doors at the Union Outpost from 8 p.m. to 12 a.m.

Wednesday
Ambassador Brown, the new Dean Rusk director, will speak on “Internationalism and the Liberal Arts Education” in the 900 Room from 7 to 9 p.m.
Basketball Diaries will be playing in the 900 Room from 9:30 to 11:30 p.m.

Thursday
Sophomore Ice Cream Social in the Big Screen Room from 9 to 10 p.m. Come and mingle with classmates and meet sophomore senators.
Women’s Issues Study Break in the Morrison Room from 9:30 to 10:30 p.m.
Crop Lunch will be served in the Morrison Room from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m.

Friday
Basketball Diaries will be playing in the 900 Room from 8 to 10 p.m.

Saturday
Saturday Night Live at the Outpost will feature the band called Negative Utopia, playing from 10 to 11 p.m. The event itself will last from 9:30 p.m. to 12:30 a.m.
Jumpin’ Java Cafe will open its doors at the Union Outpost from 8 p.m. to 12 a.m.

All Week
Glenn Ligon’s “To Disembark,” which was previously exhibited in Washington, D.C., is displayed in the Edward M. Smith Gallery starting Tuesday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on weekdays and 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. on weekends.
Exhibits by three faculty artists, Herb Jackson, Cort Savage, and Russ Warren, are displayed in the William H. Van Every Gallery which is open from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on weekdays and 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. on weekends.
Freshpeople Faces Exhibit will be hanging in the Union Gallery all week.

Write for Arts & Living. Call John at -2148.