_ OPINIONS MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1995 Andy Barwig Hail to the Chief

What the hell is going on in D.C.? As a senior whose tour of duty at Fort Davidson ends in
a few months, I cannot help but feel disenchanted with the prospects for this coming summer of joining the suits
in the morning commute to Metro Center. Let me explain just some of the reasons.

First, who does Newt Gingrich think he is? Anyone who helps in bringing about a federal government shutdown because he
felt snubbed by having to sit in coach and eat the TV dinner during the Air Force One ride over
to Israel cannot be trusted to represent and speak for a majority. Was anyone else as baffled as I was
about the whole shutdown?

Second, this one slipped past most of the Euro-centric American public but what business is it of ours to say
that the American Embassy in Tel Aviv should be moved to Jerusalem? America’s bias towards one of the three religions
in the Holy Land has given the green light for violent acts of disapproval. Don’t be surprised if we see
a young freedom fighter knocking on the U.S. Embassy door strapped with a hundred pounds of explosives.

Third, I am exposing myself to a barrage of criticism on this one, but I think President Clinton has done
a decent job recently (which may be purely luck). His recent chore of convincing the Congress for the need of
an American intervention in Bosnia has come under stiff opposition from who else? Has the appeal of Jewish votes distracted
Bob Dole’s rationale so much that he has forgotten about those seemingly insignificant little Palestinians with the cute headdresses?

Sabotaging the policies of Clinton has become the hobby of certain members of the government. Have these “leaders” ever heard
of the concept of a hierarchy? Being president means numero uno, el presidente, or as a certain opinions editor would
say: El Jefe (the boss). Perhaps my deep-seated disdain for American politics derives from the lack of any violence or
upheaval in our government. Joseph Stalin simply eliminated everyone who was a perceived threat to him. In Iraq, the deposed
monarch’s body was dragged through the streets of Baghdad in 1958. At least in Taiwan members of the Parliament climb
over chairs and engage in some fisticuffs over a disagreement. This is precisely what American politics needs to make it
interesting.

The holiday season is rapidly approaching. I can picture early Christmas morning when Colin Powell will be opening his presents
from Bob, Newt, and Bill. Enjoy your eggnog chief, you made the right choice.

ROBOTMAN® by Jim Meddick
E-Mail: JimMeddick@aol.com

THIS ONE CAN ONLY BE SMART, YES, BUT ALAS, NO SCIENTIST. WELL... YEAH. ME TOO, COCKTAIL PARTY WAS A GOOD
IDEA... WITH YOUR NEW-FOUND INTELLECT YOU ASSUME. WHEN YOU REACH THE PLATEAU OF INTELLECT I’VE ATTAINED, ALL PROFESSIONS SEEM POINTLESS...
IN THE END, WE’RE JUST A SPECIES OF BIPEDAL PRIMATES, LIVING ON A PLANET, ORBITING A SUN THAT WILL INEVITABLY
EXPLODE...

El Jefe The evil computer Mike Guggenheimer Ahh, senior year

As a student counting down the days until I am thrust into the real world and fed to the dogs,
I thought I would outline some of the anomalies of being a senior.

Interviewing: I am definitely not an expert on the subject, seeing as how I’ve never been to one, nor plan
to if I can help it. However, I do have some gripes about the on-campus interviewing process which everyone else
is so enwrapped. First of all, why would I want to work for a company so desperate for employees that
they have to go around recruiting them? Come on people, have you ever met those Anderson Consulting tools? Then again,
a more realistic assessment of my aversion to these interviews is the fact that my chances of standing out from
a pool of...

The next person that asks me what I’m doing next year...

They seem like a good idea, though. A house invites senior men and freshmen women — and that, one senior
friend of mine can attest to, is a lethal combination.

Apartments: What am I going to do next year when I don’t have those RLO dudes coming by to see
that my place is clean twice a year (that is of course if I get the busboy job I’m interviewing
for, and it pays enough to pay the rent). It really does amaze me how fast a...

Latest “Hook Party” polls indicate they are all in love with Britt Taylor and his belly. Graduation probably means less
binge drinking and therefore the last chance I have of developing a top-notch belly of my own.

Hooking up: This topic has always been a source of debate on campus so I'll say as little as possible
but probably still make some people mad. What am I going to do next year when I don’t have a
resource to shop for drunk, vulnerable women who I can trick into thinking I’m suave and stunningly handsome and really
only want to bring her back to my apartment to show her my poster...of Kirk Cameron? For those women who
now not only don’t want to marry me but also would like to see me hung in front of Chambers,
try reading that sentence again assuming a sarcastic tone. Well! I’m sure I left out a bunch of noteworthy senior
issues, but I’m trying to work on coming back for another senior year to study them in more depth (at
least that’s what I’m telling my parents). But if I do graduate, I'll be thinking about my married classmates with
high-paying (and high-stress) jobs as I relax each night in my bachelor pad, drinking champagne from the bottle, rubbing my
belly, and thinking about my easy-going job at Burger World.

I would like to begin on a side note. For the many distrusting students who accused me of forging the
letter to the editor from Jen Rawlings published in last week’s Davidsonian, I would like to reiterate my innocence in
the affair. I most certainly did not forge that letter. As the amateur journalist that I am, I consider myself
above such blatant attempts at undermining the integrity of the paper for self-flattery (not far above, but above nevertheless). What
is wrong with you people? Is it so hard to believe that someone enjoys my articles? Actually, I haven’t ruled
out the possibility of sarcasm in the letter, but that is another issue. Anyway, enough on that.

I feel I may have stepped on a few toes in my article last week when I attempted to condemn
computer nerdiness. I did not mean to criticize people who spend large amounts of time on computers, especially professors of
mine who are right now pondering final grades. As a matter of fact, due to the lovely workload here, I
spend a good portion of my life in front of a computer screen. But also realize that there is more
to life than studying and computerized toys. I think most of my bitterness toward the realm of computers comes from
my poor, actually dismal, relationship with my PC. Recently, just before I needed to print an important paper, my computer
and printer joined forces and made a deal with Satan. The thing is possessed, I tell you. Its monitor hasn’t
started spinning around or projectile vomiting like the kid in The Exorcist, but the thing is definitely in league with
Lucifer. It doesn’t do anything I tell it to, and it either won’t print or does so at a fraction
of its normal speed. The only way I got it to print my last paper was by making a side
deal with the printer in which I promised it my firstborn male child and agreed to interface it with a
sexy Ink Jet model.

Aside from the deviousness of my PC, I object to the overemphasis on computer-oriented communication. I understand sending brief notes
on e-mail because it’s faster and you can communicate with a larger group of people more effectively. Our Senior Colloquium
professor always sends us messages over e-mail concerning upcoming assignments and scheduling changes. That is fine. Very helpful, in fact.
But the replacement of personal interaction by e-mail and online services is ridiculous. I once had to go to the
library on a Friday afternoon to do some copying, and I witnessed a very frightening sight. Out of the woodwork
and from behind their normal hiding places, droves of pale kids who I had never seen before started seeping into
the “braire” and logging on to e-mail. They didn’t speak; they didn’t smile; they were on a mission. It was
scary. It was like these zombies who stay in darkness all day had emerged to feast on the internet lines
through their precious e-mail. Fearing for my life, I had to run. E-mail is great for sending free messages to
comrades in out-of-town locales, but if I ever find out that these characters are mailing their buddies on campus, I’m
going to have to take drastic, violent action. With all this computerized communication we have lost the skills of personal
interaction.

+ See Jefe on page 9
