The Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXVII MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1995 NUMBER 3

U.S. News drops Davidson down to 21

“We're still in the midst of analyzing this.”

Top Ten Liberal Arts Colleges:
1. Amherst
2. Swarthmore
3. Williams
4. Bowdoin
5. Haverford
6. Wellesley
7. Middlebury
8. Pomona
9. Bryn Mawr
10. Smith
21. Davidson

By MATTHEW ERICH & JOANNA JOHNSON
News and Assistant News Editors

Davidson College learned Thursday that in the forthcoming edition of U.S. News and World Reports (USNWR) its ranking among liberal arts colleges will drop from eighth to twenty-first. Since administrators only received news of the plummet on Thursday, most had very little to say and only offered preliminary reactions and evaluations.

Executive Assistant to the President and Director of Institutional Research John Kelton stressed late Friday afternoon that he had not had much time to analyze why Davidson dropped. “We're still in the midst of analyzing this,” he said.

Director of College Relations Jerry Stockdale wrote in a memo released to administrators on the seventh that “a quickie analysis reveals the following about our drop in the ratings. We fell from 27th to 33rd on ‘Financial Resources’ and — here’s the big one — we fell from 18th to 33rd on ‘Faculty Resources.’ This latter category is a weighted compilation of several factors including faculty compensation, student/faculty ratio, percentage of faculty with terminal degrees, and a few others.”

The “few others” are percentage of part-time faculty and class size which is measured by the ratio of the percentage of classes with twenty or fewer students versus those with 40 or more students.

Dean of Faculty Robert Williams said he is “puzzled” by Davidson’s meteoric drop. He could only offer speculative reasons for the plummet. Williams said Davidson may have fallen behind in a few of the areas in “Faculty Resources” because of over-enrollment. According to Williams, the last two classes to enter Davidson have contained thirty more students than were expected to matriculate. This forced the College to hire more part-time professors, who do not have the same impact on the rankings as full-time faculty.

Thief takes off with the goods from Sentelle

By MATTHEW ERICH
News Editor

On Tuesday morning sometime between midnight and 6 am, one or several thieves stole $230 worth of cash and merchandise from five rooms on first Sentelle. According to Chief of Police Rick Moore, the police have no good suspects as of Friday afternoon and are not ruling out Davidson students. “We can’t rule out anything,” he says.

Moore says the thefts seem to have occurred while the students were in their rooms asleep. All of the rooms were unlocked, allowing the burglar easy access. The cash was taken mostly from wallets left in plain view. A CD player which was out in the open was also taken.

Moore and Head of Campus Security say the rooms were easy targets because they were left open. Both men concede that outsiders can get into any dorm, but if students locked their doors, what happened Tuesday morning could have been avoided. “It is nearly impossible to kick in a door,” says Moore, and he adds, even if someone tried, many hall members would be awakened.

Moore urges students to be more conscious about letting non-Davidson people in the dorms. Moore and Thrower encourage students to be more vigilant and to lock their doors to prevent such incidents in the future.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

have terminal degrees, and since these professors have less teaching See Dive on page 4

College enters second year of Self-study
Rob Kosicki

Pond project sparks debate
Racial controversy rises out of the quagmire
By JoANNA JOHNSON
Assistant News Editor

The tangle of aquatic vegetation around the Davidson Pond on Griffith Street has woven an issue with social, economic, and biological threads. In its sixth year of discussion and planning, the restoration of the pond and the area nearby seems to be a distant goal for the residents around the pond. They initially wanted the pond repaired because its edge, masked by the aquatic weed, was unsafe for young chil-

inside THIS WEEK
First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

dren. Residents then asked the town to finance a plan that included dredging the pond and building several new recreational amenities around it. Plans for improvement will soon be presented to the Town Board, but that has not convinced members of the pond community that anything will eventually happen. Because of the area’s demography, many complain that this is a racial issue. Ken Torrence states, “[The Town of Davidson] and Davidson College will do what they want, when they want to do it. [But] It ain’t gonna happen.” Another West Davidson resident is discouraged that members of the Town Board presented plans to the area’s African-American Coalition but have not acted yet. “They got everyone’s hopes up,” she said.

Susan Britt, Davidson’s Town and Recreation Director, contends that something will be done. “Yes, there is a commitment to completing this thing,” she says. Britt explains that the town never promised immediate completion. “Somehow that community organization forgot that they recommended it be done in phases.” Phase one, to be presented to the board on September 12, details a plan to drain the lake in order to remove much of the silt that has entered the pond through two streams and a pipe. This build-up of material has invited the growth of primrose along the edges of the pond, as it can only grow in shal-

JOANNA JOHNSON
Staff Writer and Assistant News Editor

A year ago, English Professor Randy Nelson packed up his Chambers office and moved to #7 Jackson Court. There, as the director of Davidson College’s Self-Study, he began a two-year process of examining the details of Davidson’s operations. Now marks the beginning of the second year of the study, as well as the finalization of one of its two major parts: the Compliance Audit.

The audit is based on information requested by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS). Regional agencies such as SACS operate on behalf of the federal government specifically to outline the conditions for re-accreditation. The requirements are presented in the form of “must statements” in the 1995 Criteria for Accreditation. Nelson and his Compliance Committee have spent a year gathering data to find out if Davidson meets the requirements it “must” for re-accreditation. Re-accreditation is essential for each school every ten years. Nelson describes how schools must

who lives directly behind the pond

ing this thing,” she says. Britt

See Quagmire on page 5
See Self on page 3

Davidson stinks
Hey, Mr. Senior living Women’s soccer
skunks infest did you wins big
NEWS 2 OPINIONS 9 ARTS & LIVING 10 SPORTS 15