6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 1995

Week in Washington: Presidential field grows larger

By DAVID SANTSCHI
Washington Week correspondent

Even with President Clinton on vacation in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, and Congress in recess, there is hardly a shortage of
news from the presidential campaign trail. Pete Wilson has entered the race, Jesse Jackson is poised to do so, and
speculation is increasing about independent challenges to Clinton.

Wilson, Governor of California, announced his candidacy for the Republican nomination last Monday in New York. Using the Statue of
Liberty as a backdrop, Wilson railed against “out of touch, out of control” government and proclaimed himself as a “leader
with the courage of his convictions.” Attacking Clinton’s alleged lack of progress on domestic issues, Wilson articulated several conservative themes
in his speech, such as toughness on crime, opposition to affirmative action and illegal immigration, and individual responsibility. He criticized
the Clinton administration for “the rattling of rubber sabers” in Bosnia. Repeating his opposition to affirmative action, Wilson said that
America “promises freedom — not a free ride.” He also derided illegal immigration, saying that “the wrong way [to enter
America] is not the American way.”

The tone of his message, especially his stance against illegal immigration, reflects the conservative bent the Republican field has shown
so far. In his remarks, Wilson sought to downplay his image as a moderate and appeal to fiscal conservatives. These
themes follow three controversial stands Wilson has taken in his home state. First, he cut government spending by $30 billion.
He supported the drive to outlaw affirmative action programs in California. And he supported Proposition 187, which would revoke most
welfare benefits to illegal aliens. Even though Wilson raised taxes and remains pro-choice, he tried to portray himself more conservatively.

Another strong challenge to Bill Clinton may come from an independent backed by Democrats defecting from their party. According to
pollster Frank Luntz, “There’s clearly less a need for a Republican to leave his or her party than for a
Democrat.” Perot proved in 1992 that a well-financed independent candidacy can be viable. One of these challengers may be Jesse
Jackson, who announced last Monday that he will place his name in an unofficial straw poll. Voters in 20 cities
nationwide will select their choice for president in this CityVote election process. Jackson has hinted at another presidential run before,
but this is an even stronger indication that he intends to launch an independent candidacy. Even if Jackson does not
run, he wants to be “a strong presence in the campaign” to focus attention on urban issues.

Colin Powell, now with a stunning 62 percent favorable rating in recent polls, has said that he will take a
month-long book tour before discussing a possible run. Even with these developments, Senator Bob Dole remains the Republican front-runner. Some
Republicans are worried about the “inevitability” of his nomination, believing that voters will tire early of his message. Dole’s support
in Iowa and New Hampshire has dropped 10 percentage points, and his campaign has become admittedly complacent. With Dole tied
down in the Senate this fall, it will take focus and discipline to maintain his momentum through 1996.

Dean Rusk

Wu’s release eases tension between U.S. and China

By Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

On Thursday of this last week, the Clinton administration breathed a huge sigh of relief. That morning, the U.S. was
informed that Harry Wu, the U.S. citizen arrested for espionage by the Chinese government in the middle of June, was
being set free and allowed to return to the United States. Finally, there was hope that the U.S./Chinese relationship might
be coming around.

Some say Wu’s release might mark a turning point in the U.S.’s relationship with China, but to truly understand that
relationship, one must look at its history and events which occurred before the arrest of Wu. The U.S. and China
first exchanged ambassadors in 1979. Even though, at the time, the U.S./Chinese relationship was stilted at best, it slowly improved
until 1989. In 1989, the Chinese government sent troops into Tiananmen Square to stop a peaceful student demonstration for democracy.
By the end of the week, hundreds of demonstrators had been killed by the military, and Communist China’s most publicized
democratic demonstration was over. U.S. relations with China plummeted, but eventually economic concerns outweighed those for human rights and after
being granted Most Favored Nation Status, China was again back on amiable terms with the U.S. (even though human rights
issues, weapon sales, and a string of copyright violations continued to hinder diplomatic efforts).

May 22 marked a change to this relationship, however, when the Clinton administration granted a visa to President Lee Teng-hui
of Taiwan so that he could speak at Cornell University, his alma mater. Since 1979, the U.S. has not officially
recognized Taiwan as a legitimate government. China saw the U.S.’s action in granting Teng-hui’s visa as a possible first step
toward that recognition. And in response, China immediately began threatening naval maneuvers off the coast of Taiwan in an attempt
to intimidate Taiwan and the U.S. China also withdrew its U.S. ambassador and delayed approval of the new American ambassador
to China. During this time, U.S./Chinese relations reached their lowest point since 1979. Then to makematters even worse, the Chinese
arrested Wu. This was not the first time Wu had hurt America’s relationship with China. Before he became a U.S.
citizen, he spent 19 years in Chinese prison camps. After his release, Wu had set out on a very publicized
and successful campaign to show the world what exactly went on in those prison camps. Using hidden cameras, Wu managed
to document multiple human rights violations in these camps. He was returning to China to attempt more documentation when he
was arrested by the government and accused of espionage (a charge which carries a possible death penalty). The U.S. government
immediately protested.

Shannon Faulkner

Shannon: Only tough can be first

Shannon Faulkner’s crusade didn't exactly set the soul on fire — even a feminist soul. For one thing, it had
that been-there, done-that feel. It was a thrill when women scaled the walls at America’s military academies, the training ground
for the service elite. But that was two decades ago. We went; we conquered. Thousands of us. Bring up the
topic of women in combat, and you’ll get a feisty dinner party conversation going. But women attending military academies? Old
news. And the Citadel? Why bother?

The fact that South Carolina tax dollars subsidize this boy’s club did set the outrage meter spinning. But that was
just one of many reasons to be appalled at government — hers, ours, America’s. Example: When Faulkner was being restricted
to classroom-only work last spring at the Citadel, Alabama was still charging rape victims for their own post-assault examinations. So
I was pulling for her, but she was barely a blip on my radar. Until she quit.

Talk about outraged. And incredulous. Not to mention embarrassed. She fights for 2 1/2 years to get there and couldn't
make it a week? She arrives 20 pounds overweight and, her parents say, without a clue that she’d be singled
out by cadets. What was she thinking? More to the point, what were Mom and Dad thinking? And her lawyers?

Faulkner has started the interview rounds — Newsweek, Prime Time Live — and she swears she was in good physical
shape. She says it was the mental and emotional toll that did her in. No doubt she was under tremendous
stress; she did get death threats and was alone in a hostile land. Maybe she was in better condition than
she seemed. Unfortunately, if you are Shannon Faulkner, being in decent shape isn’t enough. You have to be pumped up
like Linda Hamilton in Terminator and just as tough. Being good won’t get it. You have to be better. It’s
not fair, but it’s a fact.

-Terri Toncale, The Birmingham Daily News

Shannon: She was not superhuman

During the week that Shannon Faulkner departed The Citadel, at least 34 other “knobs” quit — burned out, exhausted, fed
up, depressed, or had suddenly come to their senses. You heard very little about them. They were all men.

There are lessons in Faulkner’s departure from The Citadel, but not the ones offered by her ready defenders or detractors:
her experience says next to nothing about whether women can stand up to the rigors of The Citadel. Instead, the
controversy surrounding her departure merely bears out an old truth: women and people of color are judged by a double
standard. Our failures are magnified. Nowhere is that more true than for those who take up the daunting challenge of
being “firsts” — kicking open doors, knocking down walls, breaking through glass ceilings. Theirs is not a task for mere
mortals.

Of course, it is no accident that so many of those “firsts” — especially in the civil rights movement —
did so well. Many were chosen by strategists who wanted them to succeed and were actually aware of the burdens
that trailblazers would bear. Fail or not, every black person in America would be judged by the actions of those
“firsts.” They had to be exceptional.

Shannon Faulkner’s sin was that she turned out to be less than superhuman. The 34 young men who dropped out
of The Citadel in their first week paid no great penalty for that. Faulkner did. So did the cause she
championed.

-Cynthia Tucker, Editorial Page Editor, Atlanta Constitution

The Chinese government began a dangerous game of chicken with the U.S. as it attempted to show its opponents (especially
those in the military) that it was willing to stand up to the U.S. and would be willing to fight
over the issue of Taiwan. What appears to have caused the release of Wu is the UN Conference on Women
which is scheduled to begin next week in Beijing. Hillary Rodham Clinton had planned to attend the conference (giving it
legitimacy as well as showing the United States’ support for China’s role in the conference). After Wu’s arrest, it became
clear that Clinton would not attend the conference while Wu was in custody.

Now that Wu has been released, Clinton has expressed her intention to attend the conference and the latest barrier in
China’s relationship with the U.S. has been breached. The U.S./Chinese relationship, however, still remains severely strained. Taiwan continues to be
the main problem for the U.S. and China. And as the U.S.’s relationship with Taiwan continues to improve economically and
politically (Taiwan’s move from an authoritarian state to a democratic one has done a great deal to further this), the
likelihood of a simple or quick solution to the U.S./Chinese problems appears less and less probable.

Source: Time, September 4, 1995.
