18 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1995

Women’s lacrosse wins with a bang; beats Va. Tech

By Mary-E Lise BRUMFIELD
Sports writer

The women’s lacrosse team ended their season with a bang when they beat Virginia Tech 13-11 Wednesday, which was also Senior Night. The Wildcats put on a fine showing in honoring their seniors, holding on to take the tight game from the Hokies and finish the year with two straight wins and a 5-10 record.

And so ended Davidson’s first full season under coach Nancy Billger, in which the team struggled at times but started to click better toward the end of the year and picked up some quality wins. “I think the season was really nice,” Billger said. “The whole team did an excellent job... The Virginia Tech game was especially exciting because it was a very close game. It was down to the wire, which made for a great way to end the season.”

Virginia Tech charged back from an early deficit and opened up a 10-9 lead when it scored two goals within a minute in the second half. Rebecca MacLean and Hedy Moolenaar scored to put the Wildcats back ahead. Virginia Tech tied the game again later, but Sarah Hogan scored to give Davidson a 12-11 lead with three minutes 36 seconds left in the game. Kim Shuey then sealed the game and capped the season with a goal with 33 seconds left.

Megan Snyder leading the women’s lacrosse team to victory over Virginia Tech.

Mills from page 17

Kennedy and Sam Adams. Ariail faces a long road to making the team for a number of reasons. First, playing at Davidson puts him behind linemen coming out of big schools. Second, he will have to try to beat out players who have been in the league for a couple of years. Third, he’s learning to play a new position. “He’s been reacting and now he has to act,” Thompson said. “He’s never pass-protected before. He has to learn how to set himself and how to block.”

Ariail is excited about getting to work against two of the best in the business, but he is understandably more excited about the whole experience. “I am really excited,” he said. “Even though I don’t really know what my chances are of making the team, I am just going to learn and try to get stronger.”

But what are Ariail’s chances of actually becoming an offensive lineman in the NFL? The most important factor, as ludicrous as it sounds, is that Ariail will have to get bigger and stronger to combat the best defensive linemen in the league. The second most important factor will be his ability to pick up the nuances of playing on the other side of the line and protecting his quarterback, instead of trying to turn the other team’s signal caller into a grease spot.

“Odds are that it won’t happen,” Thompson said, “but that doesn’t mean it can’t happen. A lot of kids never get the chance even to be here... His job is to come in here and hopefully work his way up from the bottom. He needs to impress the coaches in relation to the backup linemen.”

However, all Ariail can ask for is that chance to chase the dream of one day winning a Super Bowl ring.

Champs from page 16

outing, comparisons to the 1991 team and speculation about whether the team can repeat are inevitable. But Akers, as the veteran leader of the squad, isn’t afraid of them. “We’re a much different team,” she said. “But once we put it all together, we have the chance to be a better team than the ‘91 team... Every other team in the world saw us celebrate with the trophy in ‘91. That would be motivation enough for me to try to beat us. But for me,I want to hold that trophy again. I want that feeling again.” Be a Sports writer. Call Schoon and make plans for next fall. 

2148 I-77; Exit 28 West
Davidson, NC 28036
Tel: (704) 892-9760
Fax: (704) 892-7794

Southlake Shopping Center
20601 Torrence Chapel Road #104

Having trouble getting your stuff home from college? Let Mail Boxes Etc. pack and ship it for you. 

All services except postage, stamps, & money transfer.
Hwy 150 West of I-77
Mooresville, NC 28115
Current I.D. required.
Tel: (704) 663-8833
Expires 9-1-95
Fax: (704) 663-7193

Mon-Fri 9-6; Sat 10-2
©1995 Mail Boxes Etc. UPS Authorized Shipping Outlet: Each Mail Boxes Etc. Center is an independently owned and operated franchise.

10% OFF for Davidson Students & Faculty

After Finals ... The Cramming Begins! From computers and stereos to boxes of books and furniture, Mail Boxes Etc. handles your shipments with care. MBE can pack and ship just about anything. It’s not WHAT we do. It’s HOW we do it.

Port Village Shopping Ctr.

Small water, big fish
By John Roe
Outdoors Columnist

Who said you can’t catch big fish in small water?

THE GREAT OUTDOORS

I have run across many such people in my fishing experiences, yet I wonder where they get such an idea. Small water, whether it be a one-acre farm pond or a meandering mountain stream, can be just as, or even more productive than the large watersheds.

One day last spring, after a morning of trying to fool a wild turkey, I stumbled upon a clear stream flowing amongst the hills. The stream was hardly ten yards wide at this spot and no more than half a foot deep. I followed the stream for a while and saw that it was full of excellent structure, swift riffles and deep pools. I told myself that I would bring my rod back here once the turkey season was over and continued to walk out of the woods.

Spring ended, and the first day I had the chance, I went back to that stream. I quietly walked down to the pebbly stream, cast a small spinner into the head of a pool and immediately hooked a rainbow trout. I unhooked the fish, let it go and soon afterward had a large smallmouth bass on the line. I pulled the bronze-backed fish out of the stream, estimated it to be about one-and-a-half pounds and put it back in the water.

I walked about two miles of the stream that day, catching large trout and healthy bass, many weighing more than two pounds. Although the stream was very shallow at most points, some of the pools were over ten feet deep. There were also many overhanging trees, stumps and undercut banks, all of which provided excellent fishing structure.

Small water like this stream is often overlooked by other anglers. In all of my time spent on this stream, I seldom saw another person. Whether it was because people saw this stream and wrote it off because of its size or because no one could find it, I do not know. Sometimes fish in small streams or ponds never see a lure, leaving these fish to grow as large as the habitat will allow. The water in this stream was so clear that I could see the bottom even in the deepest pools. It was so pure that every fish was plump and had plenty of fight. Water so clean is rarely found among the larger lakes and rivers.

In small water, fish are often easier to find because there is not as much water to fish. But this does not mean that these fish are any easier to catch.