THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1995

WAY DOWN SOUTH IN THE LAND OF COTTON

Members of History Professor Sally McMillan’s Old South class spend a day relieving stress by picking cotton at the Brattonville
Plantation last week.

Dr. Sally McMillan

PCC from page 1

many students as possible on what would be a semi-permanent, universal guest list, to comply with the “closed” party stipulation.
That list would be composed of active Court members as well as independents who paid $20 to $30 a semester
for a Patterson Court “membership.”

PCC Treasurer and Kappa Sigma President Burt Arrington delineates three factors which influenced the PCC’s decision to charge independents. “The
first issue is the cost factor,” he says. He continues, “I see the second one as a liability issue.” By
limiting parties to affiliated students and paying independents, the PCC will generate a set guest list, allowing houses to label
their parties “closed” and allowing houses to meet insurance regulations.

The third factor seems to be one of fairness. “I think it’s wrong when people say that fraternity members are
only paying $15, while independents have to pay $25,” says PCC President Steven Shames, “when really it’s about $115 to
$25,” since fraternity members pay approximately $100 for risk management and insurance already.

Outgoing Senior Class President and Sigma Phi Epsilon brother B.J. Rudell, new head independent senator Brandon Clarke, SGA Chancellor Dennis
Seavers, outgoing senior senator Gautam Srinivasan, and independent student Mary Baxter have an alternate plan in mind (see their letter
on page 7). The coalition wants all students to pay a Court fee which would be included in their tuition
bill. Thus, every student would be a Court member and have access to all parties. The senators will be submitting
a letter to Kurt Holmes this week outlining the plan. The proposal assumes a $22,000 annual risk management budget. Each
house will be returned $500 of its user’s fee from the Dean’s Office. Additionally, affiliated students would pay an extra
$9 per year in tuition, and nonaffiliated students an extra $20 dollars. According to the letter, this proposal will raise
$23,300.

The senators argue in the letter “that this new proposal will make Patterson Court more affordable, more inclusive, and more
enjoyable for all.” The letter also argues that approximately 25% of the student body would be “completely isolated from the
Court. Granted, this separation would arise purely through individuals’ choices, as each person could decide whether or not to become
a ‘member.’ But is this separatist attitude something we wish to espouse?”

Funds from page 1

and talk about that ... it will probably go to a professor that is currently here.” The Campaign for Davidson
will continue its efforts until the June 30 deadline. Crosland says, “I’m sure there will be more contributions.”

Crosland places no stock in being the donor who put the Campaign for Davidson over the top of its goal.
“In a way, it’s an opportunity to put the final touches on a wonderful campaign,” he says. “I’m glad just
to play a part in it, whether I was first or last.”

HELP WANTED!!

Men/Women earn up to $480 weekly assembling circuit boards/electronic components at home. Experience unnecessary, will train. Immediate openings in your
local area. Call 1-602-680-4647. Ext.102c

And in the most shocking turn of events, the PCC yesterday evening voted by a six to four margin not
to charge independents for the 1995-96 school year. However, the vote may have been different had five members of the
PCC been present for the vote. The only certainty about the arising debate is its amorphous character and its uncertainty.
Of the vote, Shames says, “It does [mean something] right now. I’m not sure how.”

The debate at the PCC meeting reflected the broad spectrum of opinions being expressed in the student body at large.
PiKA was definitely “vocal against the changes,” says Shames. Whit Higgins of PiKA said, “I think it’s really something that
will divide this campus. Less independents will join; the PCC will see its influence go down.” Shames said, “I do
not think it’s unreasonable to ask independents to contribute.” Part of the concern prompting the PCCTo reverse its proposal seems
to be public relations. Arrington said, “If people take time to understand the facts, they will recognize the fairness of
the proposal.” But he continued, “It’s really easy to take the superficial.” Higgins said, “Truth has very little to do
with this. Truth doesn’t matter. Headline is the reality of it. All they have to do is read an easy
headline.” There was also debate about the financing of the proposal.

Judge Samuel J. Ervin III to speak
By ANNIE CARR
Staff writer

The Hon. Samuel J. Ervin III, Chief Judge of the U.S. Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals, comes to Davidson on
Tuesday, April 11 to talk about the challenges faced by the federal court system. Ervin, here at the invitation of
the Pre-Law Society, is a Davidson graduate of the Class of ‘48. He is a member of KA and Phi
Beta Kappa.

Former Society Co-chair Scott Hile, who was responsible for planning this event, says, “What we’re trying to do is have
big speakers come here to discuss relevant legal issues. Judge Ervin will be commenting on the judicial perspective on the
104th Congress and some of its actions.” Among the actions Ervin will discuss is Congress’ recent decision to reclassify some
state crimes as federal offenses, which will greatly increase the workload of the federal courts. Ervin believes that greater emphasis
on criminal hearings, especially drug-related cases, is clogging up the system and crowding out the administration of civil cases. Ervin
will also speak about his concern with the courts’ budgetary problems, including the controversy over the construction of expensive new
court buildings in New York and Boston.

Ervin received his law degree from Harvard in 1951, after which he set up a private practice. He served as
a judge in the Superior Court from 1967 to 1980, when he was appointed to the Court of Appeals. He
has been the Chief Justice of that court since 1989. His daughter and two sons are Davidson alumni as well.

Students travel to mountains for Love of Learning retreat
By NARESH NAGELLA
Staff writer

Last weekend the 18 newly-appointed Counselor Mentors got together for a weekend retreat at Inn the Oaks on Black Mountain.
These students spent a weekend bonding, communicating, and having fun in order to prepare for their summer jobs of guiding
90 Charlotte area high school students through a four-week “academic camp” of classes taught at Davidson over the summer. Love
of Learning students and counselors will live in Davidson dorms, eat, play, and take classes from 8 a.m. to 8
p.m. each day. The goal of the program is to help students that want to learn more and don’t have
appropriate opportunities.

Ronald Ross, a consultant to the RJR Company who gave Friday's “How to Survive on a Predominantly White Campus” talk,
helped the students learn how to take on the roles of surrogate parent, friend, teacher, and guide that they will
need during the summer and the school year. Associate Director of Love of Learning Joan T. Miller called the retreat
“a success towards our goal of building a cohesive team.”

Higgins said, “I think it’s very reasonable to ask the houses to pay. I think basically this is Patterson Court
paying for its future.” Arrington said, “You’ve got $115 a year [from affiliated students] right off the bat as opposed
to $50 a year [from independents].” The debate also focused on risk management. Shames said in an interview late Sunday
night, “People cannot divorce the two issues: risk management and financial. And that is the most important thing. The goal
is to find the best risk management and how to finance it.”

In light of the PCC’s veto of its own proposal, Shames is regrouping and considering petitioning the Board of Trustees
for funding. The PCC is also going to consult the houses more closely. Says Shames, “A big factor will be
what the houses have to say.” Arrington and Shames will present the whole issue to the CCRL on Tuesday.

LET US OUTFIT YOU FOR SPRING FROLICS!
106 South Main Street
Open Mon.-Sat., 10-6
Layaway Available
896-8860
