_SPORTS | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1995 13_

Ah, glory days

By JASON BYASSEE
Sports Columnist

Pull up a chair. Relax. Allow me, a wise and learned senior, to spin you a yarn about one of Davidson’s time-honored traditions: her sports. Now remember, as an old man, my memory may be foggy and I may not get all the details right. This is the story as best I remember it.

There was a time, recently, when a Davidson sports team hit it really big. We were mentioned in Sports Illustrated. Dick Vitale himself lauded our accomplishments. We competed against the very best in the country, and more often than not, we won. We had a right to be cocky.

It was 1992, and Davidson soccer was the story in college sports. Our fame was originally just because we were hosting the college soccer final four: a beautiful campus, some nice facilities, and a brilliant sales job by then-athletic director Terry Holland and coach Charlie Slagle got us that. But then, out of the blue, the plot thickened. The Davidson soccer team itself, a forgotten entity amidst all the final four talk, began to win games. We had no scholarship players, all “walk-ons,” even if they did come here to play soccer. Despite our reputation as a “soccer school,” we’d never actually been in the NCAA tournament before.

Maybe it was the pride of hosting the final four that got our team going. How could we possibly host the party and not even show up? We started to pile up victories. Senior leader Rob Ukrop was scoring goals and we were winning, but the student body wasn’t yet interested. It would take more, and the team provided.

We returned from Fall Break that year with notes on our doors announcing that over the weekend Davidson had beaten UCLA, the No. 2 team in the country, on its home field, and we ourselves were now in the top 20. WOW! What had we been missing? The stadium started to fill, the wins kept coming, and before long, we were one of 32 teams in the NCAA tournament. Four of those teams would win the prize of a trip to Davidson for the final four.

Once in the tournament, we were the total underdogs. Nobody expected us to advance to the second round, much less get to enjoy the ultimate home field advantage in the final four. (Any other seniors getting chills yet, just remembering this stuff?)

Our first opponent in the tour-

See Glory on page 14

By RICH GLENN
Sports Writer

Saturday, the men’s soccer team opened up their much-anticipated season against Stanford in the Wake Forest Classic in Winston-Salem.

Men's Soccer

The whole team was looking forward to strutting their stuff after several weeks of tough practice and hard work, but the results weren’t what was hoped for as the Cardinals beat the Wildcats 1-0.

Davidson came out fired up and dominated the first ten minutes of the game. Unfortunately, the offensive rush put forth by the team was fruitless as Stanford turned away the pressure. The momentum changed shortly as Stanford kept the ball in the Davidson end for the rest of the half. Despite the rush, though, Davidson turned away Stanford. Alex Deegan and the defensive trio of Isaac Stewart, Steve Thomas, and Chad Lagérwey successfully fended off the Stanford at-

Women’s varsity soccer practices againstex-JV male soccer players. Se re _ ™ Coach Slagle and the team.

Men’s soccer drops season opener to Stanford, 1-0

Jay Shultz

At halftime, the score was knotted at 0-0. The team realized that they were not playing up to their potential and came out of the break looking like a different team.

“We really couldn’t get the offense going in the first half,” said Ryan Northington. "We were lucky to get out of the first half tied, and we knew we were going to have to pick up our level of play.”

Davidson dominated most of the second half and had several shots, but it was Stanford that broke the tie in the 60th minute. After a give-and-go, a Stanford forward ended up with a one-on-one against Deegan and finished nicely for the game-winning goal. From there on, the Wildcats really turned up the heat looking for the tying goal.

“We turned it on looking for the equalizer, but unfortunately we came up empty,” Deegan said.

Up front, Phil Julien and Robert Clarke were forcing the ball deep into the Stanford end and kept the pressure on the Stanford backs. Ian O’Brien had a great chance but was also denied. With four minutes left, Keith Kleeman had Davidson’s best chance when he blasted a shot on goal. Again, the Stanford goalie made the stop, and the Wildcats’ hopes were dashed.

“We played better in the second half yet it still wasn’t the level that we have to play at if we are going to have the season we want to have,” Northington said.

Davidson played College of Charleston Monday in their second game of the tournament. Charleston is a tough team which made the round of the final eight in the 1994 NCAA tournament and will be a formidable opponent. But with a win, Davidson will be able to get back on track and on the way to their goal of a berth in the NCAA tournament.

Women’s soccer loses to Asheville, 2-1

By Krissy Ford
Sports Writer

On the road Sunday, the Davidson women’s soccer team suffered a 2-1 loss in their season opener against UNC-Asheville.

UNC-A, having already gotten the first game jitters out the day before in a winning performance, took the lead with eight minutes to go in the half. Returning to the field after halftime, the Wildcats dominated the rest of the game. Junior midfielder Melissa Moser scored on a corner kick from senior forward Claudia Lombard just four and a half minutes into the half. But UNC-A countered with a breakaway goal. In the last 38 minutes, the Wildcats continued to play well but couldn’t convert on the opportunities they had. Also, the defense did an excellent job of keeping UNC-A away from the goal in the second half.

“We dominated the game,” explains coach Kevin Hundley. “The final score just happened to be 2-1 them.”

UNC-A’s speed seemed to cause problems for the Wildcats. The team was only outshot 15-12. “They just had the edge in quality shots. We got plenty of shots off, we just needed to finish them. We had two shots hit the posts and two hit the crossbar,” said Coach Hundley.

With such a young roster, the team now has one game under its belt and is looking to come out even stronger Wednesday against UNCC. The Wildcats' first home game is Saturday at 4:00 p.m. against Wofford.