Che Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXVI

MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1995

NUMBER 24

Campaign for Davidson meets goal

Crosland donates $1 million

By ASHLYN DANNELLY
Staff writer

When Davidson began its ambitious $150 million Campaign for Davidson in 1989, many people expressed skepticism that the college had set its sights too high.

Charlotte businessman John Crosland was one of those skeptics. He says, “When I first heard of the campaign ... I wondered whether they would be able to reach the goal or not.”

On Friday, Davidson President John Kuykendall announced to the college’s Board of Visitors that Crosland’s one million dollar gift to the school had put the Campaign past its goal, nearly three months before the June 30 deadline.

Crosland’s contribution will go toward creating an endowed professorship, the thirteenth endowed chair of the Campaign.

Crosland, a 1951 Davidson graduate, says, “I think Davidson is blessed by having some excellent teachers. I am glad to play a part in attracting and keeping these excellent teachers.”

In his address to the Board of Visitors, Kuykendall said, “It’s a remarkable thing for [Crosland’s] gift to be the one to carry us past our goal.”

Earlier in the meeting, Crosland had been elected chair of the Board of Visitors for the next year.

Crosland is chairman of the board of The Crosland Group, Inc., a real estate development concern. He is also a director of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, First Union National Bank, and Presbyterian Hospital. He serves as a trustee for the Central Piedmont Community College Foundation and Episcopal High School, as well as chairman for the Charlotte Habitat for Humanity.

Crosland says the Crosland Professorship will “probably be something in the math field, or something related. John [Kuykendall] and I will sit down and discuss it.”

See Funds on page 5

ROASTING WEENIES

In the home stretch of their senior year, many Davidson students are taking advantage of the country club atmosphere behind the senior apartments.

Anne Tilghman McEaddy

John Crosland poses at a fundraiser with Dr. John Kuykendall.

Search for RLO Director begins

By JAY JENNINGS
Staff writer

The departure of Richard Terry to Auxiliary Services has left a hole in the Residence Life Office and the Student Life Department of the college. Dean of Students Will Shandley has begun a search to find a replacement.

The job title has been upgraded from Resident Life Director to Associate Dean of Student Life. Shandley says that this change “appropriately recognizes the importance of Residence Life in the overall life of students ... the position’s magnitude was already worthy of this stature.”

The college is accepting resumes for the position until April 14; Shandley expects about 100 people to apply. A committee composed of students, faculty, and administrators will then look at the applicants and try to decide on three or four candidates. Shandley emphasized that significant experience is an important consideration for the job.

Shandley hopes to involve additional students in the on-campus interviews and to have an open session, giving all students a chance to meet the candidates. Shandley says, “It is important for us to get the candidates to campus before school ends for the semester.”

Shandley also says that “it is important that the person has an identifiable history of working successfully in a similar role.”

See RLO on page 3

PCC not to charge independents

By RANDY HARTWELL & MATTHEW ERICH
Staff writer & Asst. News Editor

The debate over charging independents to attend Court parties raged throughout the week. The debate was further confused on Sunday night when the Patterson Court Council (PCC) voted six to four not to charge independents to attend Court parties for the 1995-96 school year.

On Tuesday at the SGA meeting, Patterson Court President Steven Shames, Union President Morgan Perry, and Patterson Court Advisor Kurt Holmes defended the proposal and answered questions. Independent senators found their phones “ringing off the hook as soon as the last issue of The Davidsonian came,” wrote outgoing head independent senator and new junior senator Saad Gul in his official e-mailed statement to The Davidsonian. Holmes and other people connected to the Court also found their phone lines jammed with calls about the proposal.

Some PCC officers defended the plan. Because of the small size of the campus, the PCC decided it had to find a way to include as many students as possible in the social life of the college.

See PCC on page 5

inside THIS WEEK

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1

Davidson, NC 28036

Decision Davidson

Prospectives spend the weekend on campus.

NEWS 3

Still evolving

Will the debate about evolution ever end? Not this week.

OPINIONS 8

A. R. Ammons

Award-winning poet read to a captive Davidson audience Tuesday night.

ARTS & LIVING 10

Women’s lax

Wildcats are victorious against Guilford, 13-4.

SPORTS 14