12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS S&L LIVING 3 MARCH 27, 1995

A tale more grotesque than Grimm: The Universal Wolf takes a new twist on an old story

By Emily Simmons
Staff writer

This week at Davidson theater-goers saw Little Red Riding Hood with an interesting twist. Written by Joan Schenkar and directed
by Davidson Theater professor Joe Gardner, The Universal Wolf was a “vicious new version” of the childhood favorite. The play
was produced in the Black Box Theatre, giving it an intimate feel and lending itself to the cast/audience interaction.

The plot of The Universal Wolf centers around a slightly altered version of the Little Red Riding Hood tale. Rather
than centering on the plight of the poor, helpless little girl, this version focused more on Grandmother and on the
desires of the wolf — desires which prove to be no more evil than anybody else’s, especially Grandmother’s. In a
discussion session with Joan Schenkar after the play, Ms. Schenkar highlighted this aspect of Grandmother’s personality in discussing the central
theme of the play: that there is a wolf in everyone and that he is capable of thinking or doing
bad things.

Schenkar also added that she is trying to deal with larger-than-life emotions in this play, emotions that really could not
be brought forth in real life. She takes some of these emotions, such as wanting to murder your granddaughter, and
puts them in a humorous light, thus creating an explosive effect that allows the viewer to experience these feelings through
the characters in the play.

Little Red, played by Heather Baldwin, instead of being the innocent and naive youth of fairy tale lore, was an
annoying and obnoxious girl who did not do much to win the hearts of the viewers as she pranced around
the stage whining and complaining. Although warned about the wolf by her mother, Little Red still does not recognize him
when she meets him. Even though she looks up to her Grandmother, Little Red annoys her Grandmother so much that
her Grandmother ends up killing her at the end of the play. So much for the sweet little girl who
hoped to seek protection with her grandmother.

Little Red’s nemesis, M. Woolf, played by Derek Judson, is a French structuralist gentleman in a tuxedo who believes his
refined, French version of the fairy tale is much more sophisticated than the Grimm’s version. He also believes he can
trick Little Red and her Grandmother into “making” a tasty dinner. Little Red and her Grandmother aren’t as stupid as
the Grimm brothers would have us think. After arriving at Grandmother’s house in a Little Red disguise, M. Woolf is
tricked into the armoire where Little Red is hiding. After a loud scuffle, Little Red kills M. Woolf with an
axe.

M. Woolf

Indigo from page 10

“Love’s Recovery”: “How I wish I were a trinity, so that if I lost a part of me / I’d
still have two of the same to live / But nobody gets a lifetime rehearsal, as specks of dust, we’re
universal.”

NOMADS INDIANS SAINTS. Coming only 18 months after Indigo Girls, Nomads seems more rushed than its predecessor. Still, the songs
beat any other folk music from the time, even Tracy Chapman. Like R.E.M., Emily and Amy brought political and social
issues into the usual philosophical mix. They are so rarely trite, but I must admit lines like “My life is
part of the global life” sometimes make me cringe. They go for even fuller arrangements than the previous release, breaking
away from the traditional acoustic guitar-based world of suburban folk. Nomads marks a small step back, but an understandable one
in the post-Indigo Girls era.

BACK ON THE BUS, YA’LL. This 1991 album resembles U2’s Under a Blood Red Sky, compiling a half hour of
favorite live performances to take a rest after three good studio albums. Despite Rolling Stone’s assertion to the exact opposite,
this does nothave their best performances, and it doesn’t satisfy quite like the studio albums. It’s not supposed to. It
still makes for a great listen and shows that they really can sing those amazing harmonies. And speaking of U2:
their live version of “All Along the Watchtower” blows the Rattle and Hum one out of the water.

RITES OF PASSAGE. I can still remember driving back from Georgia with my girlfriend in the summer of 1992, listening
to this album for the first time. In retrospect, it was the perfect way to listen to this, their most
relaxed and upbeat album; at the time, though, I did not like it. Two months later, I couldn’t stop listening
to it. Starting with the deep tribal beat of “Three Hits,” Rites takes chances at every turn and comes out
ahead almost every time. Though the lyrics continue to impress, this is their strongest musical album. With that in mind,
I don’t blame some fans for calling this, not Indigo Girls, their best.

SWAMP OPHELIA. Their most recent release came out this summer, almost two years after Rites of Passage. Like Rites, Swamp
Ophelia did not do much for me at first. Unfortunately, I never fell in love with this one. As with
the others, there are many great moments. Amy breaks the bounds of folk rock with the hard-edged, six-minute epic “Touch
Me Fall.” Emily gives cameos of her tongue-in-cheek depth, as in “Mystery.” But there are some unprecedented duds among the
11 songs. Emily’s cheesy “Power of Two” is at best a guilty pleasure and at worst a sickening piece of
sentimentality. Despite good lyrics, Amy’s “Dead Man’s Hill” and “This Train Revised” simply annoy the ear. Though I hate to
admit it, Swamp Ophelia is Rites of Passage’s tired cousin: less addictive, less creative, and less inspiring. A beginning Indigo
Girls listener, as well as the casual fan, would do better going to the lush well of their back catalog.

doesn’t even stand a chance against Grandmother and Little Red. Grandmother, played by Jennifer Neale, proves to be the highlight
of this play. She becomes the opposite of what everyone thinks of as “Grandmother.” She guzzles blackberry wine like an
alcoholic, and she is not stupid enough to fall for Mr. Wolf’s disguise. Who would have ever thought that Grandmother
could outwit the wolf, and better yet, who would have ever thought Grandmother could outwit the wolf while schnockered? Grandmother
busts the barriers of the traditional fairy tale and creates a likable, yet totally nontraditional, character.

The entire play is set around a reader, performed by Adrienne Nixon, who talks about various slides put up throughout
the play. The slides are of philosophers whose thoughts relate only obscurely to the action of the play. Although overly
pretentious, these sidelights actually add to the play by adding to the confusion of emotion that is created. What exactly
are we supposed to think of these characters and what is the reader talking about?

Both the set design by Miles Mowry and the costume design by Kathryn Schlee were beautiful and essential to the
theme of the play. The set was wonderfully crooked and colorful. It added to the highly stylized, larger-than-life effect that
the play was trying to achieve. In addition to all the other costumes, Little Red’s short costume with cleavage added
to her entire image. The Universal Wolf, although quite enigmatic, allows the viewer to see the fairy tale from the
viewpoints of all the characters and helps the viewer to realize that perhaps a poor, helpless little girl and old
grandmother aren’t always what they first appear to be.

PUBLIC LECTURER
The Reverend Professor W.P. Stephens
Chair of Church History Department, University of Aberdeen
"THE CHURCHES OF EASTERN EUROPE"
A lecture addressing the background of the explosive religious scene in the formerly Communist regions of Europe.
Monday, March 27. • 7:30 P.M. • EU Hall
*Sponsored by the Committee on Public Lecturers and the Departments of History and Religion*
