12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING

Union Gallery exhibit focuses on physical obsessions

By George Weld

Two exhibitions up right now — one in the Van Every Gallery of the VAC and one in the Union
Gallery — are sure to attract attention, probably for the wrong reasons. The Ansel Adams show in the Van Every
is sure to be one of the most popular shows of the year, bound to draw in dozens of people
who want to see the real thing after having admired Adams’ photographs reproduced in calendars, on posters, and on book
jackets. The Charles Walker show in the Union Gallery will draw a different sort of attention, one stimulated by the
combination of Walker’s explicit treatment of sex and an untraditional hanging which is the sort of thing that inclines the
already skeptical or upset viewer to say something like, “... but why is this art?”

Walker’s show is entitled “Human Factories” and is, according to his artist’s statement, meant to deal with peoples’ physical obsessions,
the elements that combine to form the world and our bodies, and the physicality of painting. The show’s concern with
the last of these is the most obvious. The canvases are unstretched, and hung apparently randomly, without achieving or trying
to achieve a coherent effect. The paintings flap in the breeze when the door is opened; they are wrapped around
the corners of the gallery. One wonders constantly how one is supposed to take certain paintings: where two canvases are
juxtaposed or overlapping it isn’t clear whether they are meant to be part of one painting, the two panels of
a diptych, or totally unrelated. Both the show taken as a whole and the paintings taken individually have the feeling
of being broken down, reduced to their components and relieved of anything as extraneous as stretchers or titles. The show
probably wouldn’t have looked much different if it had been held in Walker’s studio.

The breakdown that characterizes the overall show is apparent in form and content of the paintings themselves, as well. In
one untreated painting, a schematic of circles and connecting lines is superimposed on the image of a pair of people
in such a way as to emphasize the figures’ heads, hands, and feet; the painting feels self-analytical as it emphasizes
the basic elements of its own subjects. In another slightly heavy-handed painting, the culture (I think) of native northwestern Americans
is presented as a loose montage of symbols representing important elements of the life of these people: harpoons and hypodermic
needles, ice floes and oil slicks. In another painting, color is broken down; and in what is surely the most
notorious of the paintings, sex is broken down and presented elementally (a close-up of a woman with her mouth against
some shape phallic enough to get the point across) and without embellishment (a plain line drawing of a couple having
sex). One or two of the paintings here don’t seem to belong in this show: a small orange painting and
a larger red one seem a little out of place. The rest of the show is...

Counting Crows make the list of 1994 worst videos

Bavis continued from page 11

... munchkins make you appreciate Boys II Men.

Second Prize — “Round Here.” VH-1 fodder. Even for the Counting Crows, this is painful stuff. The highlight is the
fake-dredlocked singer Adam Duritz lip-syncing as he walks down a railroad track. Would you like some cheese with your whine,
Mr. Duritz?

PEOPLE TO WATCH IN 1995 (EXPECTANTLY).

First Prize — Pearl Jam has a new album, Vitalogy, coming out now. Their last two have been excellent, and
if the third is a charmer, as one of my roommates said, “People will begin to look at them as
the best band of the decade.”

Second Prize — Sarah McLachlan. She has gotten better with each album, and a new CD is planned for the
latter half of 1995. A great piece of work is guaranteed, whenever it appears.

Third Prize — Electro-luxe. This band of early ‘90s Davidson grads stands a good chance of getting that magical thing
called The Contract next year. If they get it, it will be because they deserve it; they have a lot
of talent.

PEOPLE TO WATCH IN 1995 (WARILY).

First Prize — Lisa Loeb. She’s going to have to pull off a miracle to avoid being the one-hit-wonder who
did the song “Stay” and milked it for everything she...could. She’s set to put an album out in 1995 and
I hope the best for her. But I will not be placing bets on her being anything more than a
Suzanne Vega lite.

Second Prize — Metallica. I pity the fans of the world’s oldest speed metal band. They seem to have forgotten
that it is nice to have a new album to promote when you go on tour. Are they has-beens, or
are they preparing metal’s Dark Side of the Moon? Maybe next year we will find out.

Third Prize — U2. Like Metallica, this quartet is also against the artistic ropes. Bono’s voice has been weakening since
Rattle and Hum and, to put it kindly, their last album was not up to their usual high standards. If
they want to remain the most famous band in the world, they need to put out a high-quality studio album
like 1991’s Achtung Baby.

The painting of the couple having sex (this would be so much easier to write if these paintings had titles)
is happily more playful than such paintings typically are; there’s none of the melodrama or preachiness in this painting that
so many young painters seem to feel obliged to engage in. Some of the paintings seem muddled, but many of
them are interesting in their disruption of their own tendency or mode: the candy cane in the painting of the
couple having sex; the overlay of a network of circles in another painting; and the dots of pure color in
another are all surprising in the way that they jar the compositions. One might wish that this show weren’t so
comfortably postmodern: some of the disruption, the self-analysis, and the self-exposure is almost conventional now, and the hanging of the
show seems almost gimmicky. Nonetheless, I at least am glad this show is here as much because of the reaction
it has spurred in people (if you’re bored one day there’s plenty of entertainment to be had from sitting in
the pit and listening to people as they walk by) as because of the paintings themselves. There will be a
reception for Charles Walker on January 20 at 6:30; gallery committee chair Jennifer Tracy promises that Walker is entertaining and
eager to talk about his work, which will be up until February 11.

Bombay with the group. Photo courtesy of Margaret Ann Scheu. President John Kuykendall and his wife Missy made a two-week
trip to India to visit Davidson's semester in India program. The Kuykendalls stayed at Madras Christian College, and they toured
Delhi, Agra, Jaipur, Aurangabad, and Bombay.

Dear Terry Buffington,

INVENTORY CLEARANCE SALE!
- 10% OFF CLIMBING GEAR
- 20-50% OFF CLOTHING
- 10-40% OFF BOOTS AND SANDALS

Teva Shops on the Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn

Dear Terry,

I was a good kid during 1994. Accordingly, Santa brought me quite a few goodies. The problem is not a
lack of gifts but the kind of gifts I received. I got some really random stuff that I don’t think
I will ever use. What should I do? I am embarrassed to ask for receipts, but I don’t want to
let my family’s and friends’ generosity go for naught. I need advice.

Sincerely,
Inappropriately Gifted

Dear Gifted,

Your concern for the feelings of your family and friends is admirable. I, too, often receive gifts for which I
have no use. Easy-bake ovens, cement mixers, and Grizzly Adams trash cans are nice additions to any room decor, but
they possess little practical value. In situations like this, there are two options. One: Apply the saying “It’s the thought
that counts” and ask your patrons for the receipts. If they truly are your friends, they will understand that you
do not dislike them or their gift per se, you just want to exchange it for something more fitting your
needs. Two: Realize that even tacky and useless possessions have character—more character, in fact, than many “nice” gifts. What would
you notice more, a nice Waterford vase or an abstract sculpture of Genghis Khan your aunt picked up in Eurasia?
So, if you were lucky enough to get Earl Klugh’s new album, a pair of green bell-bottoms, and a copy
of Dianetics, enjoy them. Listen, wear, and read, and perhaps your random gifts will turn into goodies themselves.

Love,
Terry

Yes, Nicole, we want you to write for The Davidsonian. Oh, and anyone else, too.
