_ MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1995

Andy Barwig

The media did it

In a summer movie season of lackluster action blockbusters, it has been refreshing to come home, make a batch of
buttered popcorn, flip on CNN, and watch all the highlights of the NATO bombing of Serb positions in Bosnia. Ted
Koppel, Peter Jennings, and the like dazzle our imaginations with tales of laser-guided “smart” bombs raining over the Serb aggressors.
The best part is clearly those military black and white pool videos, with that little building in the crosshairs being
blown to pieces. One can even cuddle up with The New York Times after dinner as if it was a
Stephen King novel and read all about the demonic Bosnian Serb leader, General Mladic.

Is this at all reminiscent of the U.S. bombing of Iraq a couple of years ago? That media-brainwashed operation in
1991 had neat terms like “surgical bombing” and “collateral damage” as well. Americans could feel satisfied that by just “bombing
the hell” out of someone, everything would be better. Of course, destruction was strictly limited to non-civilian targets as our
infallible smart bombs never “went stupid.”

Furthermore, and most importantly, the culprits were clearly being punished. All the media has to do is demonize the opponent
a couple of times to gain the unconditional support of the American public. During the Gulf War, George Bush had
a clever tactic of purposely mispronouncing the Iraqi leader’s first name so it closer resembled the word “sodomy.” America has
yet to hear Bill Clinton’s version of Slobodan Milosevic.

The purpose behind the bitterly sarcastic introduction and title is to raise the issue of the U.S. media’s depiction of
the Bosnian Serbs in the civil war of former Yugoslavia. There is no question that the Serbs have committed various
atrocities in Bosnia. Too many witnesses have seen the Muslim graves and Serbian prison camps. When is a brutal civil
war involving ethnic conflict ever “neat and tidy”? The media has clamored for pictures showing Muslim refugees evicted from their
homes by the Serbs. But at least as many Serbs have been forced out of their homes by the Muslims
and Croats in this war of ethnic cleansing.

The Bosnian Serb offensive in Srebrenica and other areas this summer was met with widespread condemnation and outrage by the
U.S., yet ironically Washington watched the Croatian blitzkrieg of the Krajina region with a satisfied silence. Now, the U.S. and
its Western allies have labeled the Bosnian Serbs as the enemy and have taken punitive actions against them with media
reinforcement. This same kind of American partiality resulted in the marine barracks being blown up in Beirut and its “peacekeepers”
being attacked in Somalia. If the United States should learn anything from its previous involvement and intervention in civil strife
in a collapsed state, it should be not to take sides, or at least not to make it apparent to
a potential threat that it has done so.

To be honest, the civil war in the former Yugoslavia is not a vital interest of mine, but I cannot
help but feel inundated by the media coverage it receives and skeptical of some of its value, particularly when the
U.S. military is involved. This article is not meant to be a defense of the Serbs who have raped, tortured,
and killed many innocent people in the civil war but instead to raise a question about the American media and
whether it manipulates public opinion to conform with the policies and interests of the government. Who knows, maybe Saddam Hussein
was right?

Adam Hickey

The numbers game

Okay, I admit it. When I first heard that Davidson slipped, or shall I say plummeted, to twenty-first in U.S.
Gossip and World Scandal, I was a tad bit perturbed. Actually, I freaked. Visions of a Mexican law school danced
in my head, replacing those of any school in the Northeast. Suddenly, my impressions of this college as one of
the elite vanished, at least for a moment. I ran to my file box to photocopy all my applications from
last year, to change the date, and to send them out again. “Maybe there’s still time to transfer,” I thought.
This, of course, says far more about me than it does the school. Sure, itIt was nice that Davidson was
a “top ten” institution, but did that happen overnight? No. It took years of hard work by administrators, the admissions
office, the students, etc. Just as it took time for the college to ascend to the height of greatness, it
also takes time for any to fall. Surely nothing could go so wrong in one year that the halo that
surrounds this institution would suddenly disappear. I, like many of the freshmen I’ve met here, chose this school for several
reasons. Academic reputation was one of them, yet I didn’t even get a copy of that bird cage liner (no
anger here) until after my applications were filed. It’s nice to be recognized with a great ranking, but even if
Davidson loses all of its renown (which by no means it has), it will still be every bit the school,
or more, that it was a year ago. Nothing’s changed except the numbers. And how do they determine these ratings
anyway? Did Davidson not have a toilet-to-student ratio as high as Amherst’s? Did Williams hire that extra chef? Perhaps Davidson
students took a dive on that all-important, all-overrated test: the SAT. Maybe a school’s ranking is inversely proportional to the
number of student-held subscriptions for that, that... tabloid (I’m not bitter). Regardless of the reason Davidson dropped, it shouldn’t make
me think twice about my decision to go here: Mexican law school. Goodness knows the workload didn’t suddenly get lighter,
which reminds me—¡Ay caramba! It’s due Monday?!

KABLOOEY by Blue

WOVLD YOU LOVE ME ONCE ‘OK WERE A BACTERIUM? STILL AND TO THINK TED WONDERED WHY HIS RELATIONSHIPS NEVER LASTED.
DISTRIBUTED BY TRIBUNE MEDIA SERVICES

Sherika Allen

A prayer

Dear Lord... Bitter is not what I want to be. I do not want to resent each white face I
see. Davidson is “conservative,” which means I am not? Therefore, it is okay for some whites to be racist; but,
me, I must stay open-minded and accept these “minor” pains for the great “gains” that will benefit me in the
future (of which I may never live to see). Blind my eyes; plug my ears. To be racist is my
greatest fear. The most ignorant emotion expressed by a man is racism. It is so powerful that if used directly
or indirectly its powers are just as effective. A man who harbors racism cannot harbor LOVE, because the disease feeds
off the very nature of that person’s heart. Build me inside STRONG; but outside, weak, so I’ll appear less intimidating:
fragile and meek. My theory is that whites are afraid that blacks may want revenge for all those years of
slavery: we want your schools, your jobs, your spouses—your lives to atone for your ancestors’ mistakes. As a result, you
want to ostracize us, keep us “down.” And yet, keep a good eye on us “black folk” to be sure
we don’t have a trick or two up our sleeves.

Lord,

If my tears were of sugar, maybe it wouldn’t hurt as much to cry, Or you could just make the
salt less bitter so that it doesn’t sting my eye. I do not cry because I regret being African-American, but
because I will never be African or American, only the unknown dash between that truly represents me. I was motivated
to write this piece for those racist guys whom I came across at the Union Outpost Wednesday night, September 6.
Although nothing physically or verbally racist was addressed toward me, I felt responsible for the cold stares and attitudes that
these guys directed at my white friend. I realize that as a minority here at Davidson I must accept that
not everybody is going to be my friend. However, what I was not prepared for was that those few people
who are mature enough to view others as individuals would also castigate for their unconservative outlook. I can’t decide which
hurts more: not having any non-black friends or putting these brave souls through the anguish that even I, after years
of experience, can barely handle. I pray things here at Davidson will not get to the point where I will
have to make a decision.
