4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1995

Wu speaks out against human rights violations

Wu tells poignant tale of political struggle, unjust imprisonment, and hard-fought freedom

By Adam HICKEY
Staff Writer

Harry Wu’s poignant tale of political struggle, unjust imprisonment, and hard-fought freedom brought Love Auditorium to its feet Monday, November
13. Originally arrested in 1960 as a political dissident, Wu related the 19 years he served in a laogai, or
Chinese forced labor camp, and how he emigrated to the United States in 1985, where he continued his education in
engineering at the University of California-Berkeley. Wu then worked at the Hoover Institute, where he pursued a study of the
forced labor camp system in China.

“I hope laogai becomes an English word, just as you can now find ‘gulag’ in the dictionary,” he said, urging
audience members to remember that the evils of Nazi concentration camps are repeated today in Chinese prisons. While Wu condemned
human rights violations of all kinds, he focused specifically on the forced labor system in China he witnessed. Posing as
an American businessman, Wu told of his mission to China in cooperation with CBS and how he taped government officials
offering him the use of cheap, forced prison labor to work in his fictitious factory. The documentary, which aired in
1991, infuriated the Chinese government. So did his later work with the British Broadcasting Company, which led to an exposé
of the government practice of selling organs obtained from executed prisoners.

As a result of his work, Wu was blacklisted. He was unable to obtain a visa until March of 1995,
and he was able to do so only because his name as entered on his American passport was unfamiliar to
the Chinese. Wu was recorded by surveillance equipment at the border, was recognized, and was arrested shortly thereafter on charges
that included, among other things, misrepresentation to the Chinese government. Wu said his trial lasted four hours; he was found
guilty and sentenced to deportation. Wu protested the sentence and was jailed under house arrest for 66 days until he
was released and allowed to return to the United States on August 24, one day before First Lady Hillary Rodham
Clinton announced she would attend the upcoming Woman’s Conference in Beijing. Wu alluded to a connection between the two.

Discussion elicits energetic dialogue on Million Man March

By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
Staff Writer

Describing an experience “too powerful to imagine,” four Davidson students who participated in the Million Man March in Washington, D.C.
last month helped lead an open and animated discussion about race, equality, and the Million Man March last Wednesday at
the BSC House. Organized by Krissie Johnson, Special Events Chair of the Black Students’ Coalition, the forum, titled “The Million
Man March: Where do we go from here?” featured moderator T.X. Green and student marchers Carlos Bowen, Damon Colbert, Shakeem
Lane, and Karim Lawrence.

The program began with an interview session, during which Green asked the four panelists to share with the audience their
most memorable experiences and lessons from the march. Highlights cited by the marchers included the sense of unity and peace
that pervaded Washington’s Mall, where hundreds of thousands of black men gathered in late October to reaffirm their values, resolving
to strengthen their communities. At one point during the march, Louis Farrakhan asked the men to hold hands with each
other. The panelists agreed that this scene, a sea of black men holding hands and sharing love, left a lasting
impression. Lawrence mentioned the impact of seeing “brothers who haveevents when he thanked Clinton for taking a stand for human
rights. Though the lecture was for the most part very sobering, containing such moving moments as Wu’s recollection of the
death of his mother and estrangement from the rest of his family, Wu’s sense of humor emerged often. For instance,
he described what he did for entertainment during his jailing: singing Elvis Presley’s “Love Me Tender” and telling his guards
(who were forbidden to speak to him) about O. J. Simpson, the Chicago Bulls, and Rodney King. During his imprisonment,
Wu said he requested two of his favorite books: Herman Melville’s Moby Dick and Ernest Hemingway’s The Old Man and
the Sea, from which he takes the motto: “Man is not made for defeat.” Wu reflected on how his experiences
have changed him, saying, “I passed the line between life and death several times. So now I define life and
death in different ways.” Wu closed with gratitude, saying, “I am honored to be a part of the United States
and that American people care about me.” The lecture was sponsored by the Public Lectures Committee and was funded by
the Wearn Lectureship.

Million Man March panel discussion held at the BSC. Rob Kosicki gold teeth holding hands with businessmen... Everyone’s status was
equal.” Green agreed that the marchers’ discipline, peace, and respect were felt intensely by those present in Washington. However, he
remarked, “CNN can’t tell you that ... CNN won’t show you that.” After the initial interview session, Green shifted the
program’s focus, encouraging the audience to ask questions of the panelists as well as of other audience members. Questions, comments,
and ideas were voiced by nearly all present, and although the subject matter was often controversial and sensitive, the dialogue
was characterized by respect. Intended to provoke thought and encourage communication, the Million Man March forum did just that. The
BSC-sponsored discussion continued for nearly two hours, fueled by the genuine interest and energy of its leaders and audience members.

Habitat from page 1

some money, he will receive a Lego block which, at the end of the campaign, will be added to a
Lego wall symbolizing the solidarity of the campus. Other campus organizations have aided the campaign. Kappa Sigma and Rusk sold
t-shirts for Home Runs for Habitat and raised several hundred dollars for the program. Also, part of the proceeds from
the FLAG Fashion Show on Saturday were donated. The Habitat organizers will organize a talent show in the 900 Room
on December 2. There will be approximately 15 acts and dessert will be served. Admission will be free.

Nena O’Brien with children during construction of their Habitat home in 1991. With a little bit of luck, the project
will continue on schedule, with the house’s foundation being laid down before Christmas and construction beginning soon after, say the
organizers. One of the principal organizers, Ree of Reach Out, Prita Donthamsetty, says, “[Service Coordinator] Catherine Turner and I are
so excited to be heading up this project and bringing the campus together in a way we haven’t seen since
the AIDS memorial quilt was here.”

-Beth Lindsey contributed to this article.

Courtesy of College Relations
