2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1995

NEWS BRIEFS

How to improve campus safety

Mary Laura Moretz, Chair of the Student Advisory Committee to the Director of Campus Safety and Police Ray Thrower, asked
the SGA Tuesday night which areas of campus security they felt should be brought to Thrower’s attention in her committee’s
upcoming meeting with Thrower. One senator mentioned clarifying and reinforcing the guidelines concerning visiting students to avoid situations which arose
last semester. Another was concerned about the robberies in Sentelle. A sophomore senator mentioned that not all Sophomore dorms have
phones outside.

Seniors won’t be attending Convocation, survey reports

When seniors picked up their caps and gowns for graduation, they were asked three questions concerning convocation. First, “Were Convocation
held during Parents’ Weekend, would they attend?” According to Allison Sabel, 90 percent said they would. Second, “Are you planning
to attend this year’s Convocation, which is being held the first day of Fall Break?” Sabel said only 20 percent
intended to go. This number includes choir members and other seniors who are required to go. According to Sabel, this
number translates into 30 to 40 seniors at Convocation. Third, “As a means of protest, are you interested in wearing
your cap and gown to the Parents’ Weekend football game?” Few seniors were interested in this plan of action. According
to Rick Onkey, who also helped conduct the survey, between 85 and 90 percent of seniors responded.

PCC recycling update

After the first week of recycling on the Court, some houses seem to have adapted well, while others are finding
the going more difficult. Sig Ep learned that the recycling bins do not hold kegs very well. As a matter
of fact, kegs destroy the bins. Warner Hall is recycling trash generated by the house and also encourages members to
bring recyclables down from their rooms. SAE does not produce any recyclable trash and is using the bins as regular
trash receptacles instead. KA is awarding service hours, which are mandatory for all brothers, to those who participate in the
recycling program. It came as news to many that Solo cups are a recyclable item. Recycling bins have been delivered
to some of the Senior apartments, but not all. Bins for the rest of the apartments are on the way.

CatCard becoming the most valuable piece of plastic in your wallet

Efforts to expand the use of the CatCard off-campus are still progressing slowly. Currently, Director of Auxiliary Services Richard Terry
and the Student Advisory Committee to the Director of Auxiliary Services are working with the College’s lawyers to resolve some
legal issues. If the school were to allow students to use their declining balances to pay for off-campus items and
services, the College would then be acting as a bank. This would jeopardize the College’s non-profit status. Auxiliary Services has
also been investigating allowing students to use their CatCards to pay for items at on-campus vending machines. The College is
considering changing the companies which provide the vending machines, so until that decision is made the issue of using the
CatCard will not be addressed.

More information in one place than ever before

After receiving the go-ahead from The Davidsonian editors, the SGA affirmed unanimously a plan to consolidate announcements for all campus
events in one half-page ad in the paper. Senior Class President Allison Sabel petitioned the SGA Tuesday night for support
for the idea. The ad would be in the “Arts and Living” section and is intended to expand the “On
The Scene” weekly calendar. The ad would include announcements from all campus organizations and groups. The groups would each contribute
funding to pay for the ad space which would be provided at a discount rate. The first weekly calendar is
scheduled to appear the week after fall break.

SGA will discuss Davidson’s church-relatedness

Dan LaFar, the trustee placed in charge of the trustee committee on church-relatedness, and Executive Assistant to the President John
Kelton have asked the SGA to submit a letter reflecting the SGA’s opinion on the following three questions: 1) Must
the President of the College be required to be Presbyterian?; 2) Should all members of the Board of Trustees be
required to be active members of a Christian church?; and 3) Should all professors in the Department of Religion be
required to be active members of a Christian church? SGA President Bill Gullan encouraged senators to consult their constituents to
get a wide spectrum of opinions.

Sadler from page 1

10 days to respond; yet when they tried to reach Sadler to discuss the situation, he was never available. Sadler
never contacted the lessees by phone and never even followed through with the eviction, they said. Calling the action a
“big threat,” the tenant complained that Sadler was “very random about how strict he was going to be,” creating a
very uneasy feeling and an uncomfortable relationship with Sadler. Former Lorimer Road tenants were also unsure about their responsibilities as
renters until they finally received a copy of the lease, though Sadler was “reluctant to give it up.”

Junior Brian Boyd donates bone marrow

By Mary Laura Moretz
Staff Writer

“I’ve had so many tests and papers this week that it’s been almost the furthest thing from my mind.” So
spoke Brian Boyd two days before his operation to donate his bone marrow last Friday. The Davidson junior found out
from the Red Cross that he was a first-level match during exams at the end of last year. After that,
he figured, “There was about a one in four chance that I would really match up with a recipient.” Boyd
underwent more blood tests before going on to Chicago, where he held an internship this summer. Several weeks later, he
received a phone call letting him know his blood had matched.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning
and punctuation:

---

that of a person in need of a bone marrow transplant. At that point, Boyd says, “I got complete information
about the process, and all my questions were answered. There was no pressure to make my decision one way or
the other, but I said yes pretty much immediately.” So this fall, after a physical, EKG, and a number of
other tests to make sure he was in good health, Boyd made plans to donate. His mother flew from their
home in Connecticut last week to accompany her son to North Carolina Baptist Hospital in Brian Boyd Winston-Salem. All Boyd
knows about his recipient is that she is a 29-year-old female. He is more worried about her risks than his,
pointing out that for him, “The only real risk might be the anaesthesia — but not really even that.” Senior
Sarah Lindsey, President of the Project Life Committee, notes that the Davidson bone marrow drive has produced a number of
donors — “at least five or six that have been typed at Davidson in recent years.” Project Life’s goal this
year is to type 500 people and raise the $15,000 it would take to pay for the typing. Lindsey says
they also “need more African-Americans to be typed, in addition to more people overall.”

“Stay in Control” Alcohol Awareness Week promotes responsible drinking practices

By Mary Laura Moretz Staff Writer

Dr. Art Flagg hopes it will be hard not to notice all the events the Health Center has coordinated for
National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week. The schedule of events includes spots all over campus at almost every time of day
from October 2 to 6. Flagg, a substance abuse counselor at the Health Center, says “I wish folks would get
involved. We have so much to do!” Students will be reminded of the cause not only by the banner on
the Union and the bulletin board in Chambers but also by a hearse. “Be looking out front of Chambers. There
will be a hearse from Charlotte with the slogan, ‘If you drink and drive, we’ll be the last to let
you down’.” At 6:30 Monday evening, a mock arrest will take place outside the Union Outpost, complete with police, students
posing as DWI offenders, and a few beer cans rolling out of the car. Tuesday, students can sign a banner
to show their support of responsible drinking, and from Tuesday until Friday, alcohol awareness videos will play in the Union
lobby from 12 to 3 in the afternoon. Outside of Chambers, a pick-up truck full of empty cans and bottles
will bear the sign, “One Night of Drinking.” Also on Tuesday, “mocktails” — non-alcoholic cocktails — will be served in
the Union from 12 to 1 p.m. During 21-Year-Old Night, the 900 Room will be full of paraphernalia encouraging those
attending to drink responsibly. At the Commons from 12 to 1 on Wednesday afternoon, a father-son juggling act called the
Gravity Brothers will be entertaining the lunch crowd while students receive more free paraphernalia. At 9 p.m. all students are
welcome to a non-alcoholic study break in the 900 Room. At noon on Thursday, students have the option of watching
the movie Barfly in the Union lobby or going down to the Commons for “Free Bud” — a flower bud,
that is. As of last week, two Patterson Court houses had signed on to help sponsor the cause. Representatives from
Rusk House and Kappa Alpha will be in Chambers on Monday and Tuesday from 9:30 p.m. to 1:30 a.m. selling
off their members for a “Buck-a-Tuck.” Students can “buy” a Rusk woman or KA brother for a dollar to tuck
in a friend on Wednesday night. Proceeds will be donated to SADD (Students Against Drunk Driving). Flagg says his primary
goal is to ingrain in everyone’s mind the week’s theme: “Stay in control.”

They said that when they tried to reach Sadler by phone, he was extremely hard to contact. During office hours,
tenants sometimes did not even reach an answering machine at his office. When tenants reached Sadler to ask him to
fix problems at their houses, they say he often refused to take responsibility for the situation. Former tenants at two
of his residences complained about bug problems, to which Sadler referred in both cases as “human problems.” One tenant moved
into a house infested with fleas caused by a cat who had belonged to previous tenants. Sadler sent someone over
to spray the house but made the tenants pay for it. Other tenants remembered an ant and roach problem at
their house, which they said Sadler would not remedy. Also, Sadler unexpectedly arrived at one of his houses and found
that none of the lightbulbs in the house fit the safety wattage, yet the tenants claim he made them purchase
new ones. Said one of the tenants; he showed up to check “things you would never believe a landlord would
check.” Sadler told these same residents that they could not place their belongings on the floor of one of the
rooms because of a floor problem. They say that though he promised to have someone fix the problem, he never
did — or at least he did not tell them. Many other residents remember Sadler making similar promises. When they
moved in, a few renters remembered Sadler promising to paint, to fix a ceiling fan and a few other things.
According to the residents, Sadler only painted — two weeks later. Though Sadler allegedly tried to blame many of his
house problems on his renters, former tenants believed he was taking advantage of them because they were students. One complained,
“He’s out to make students’ lives hell.” Another agreed that Sadler did not seem to want to be friendly with
students: “He can’t relate to us at all. When he had a problem with us, he simply yelled. He didn’t
try to discuss anything.” Sadler had little to say about his relationship with his tenants except, “We don’t consider the
newspaper the proper form to discuss tenant-landlord relationships, though I am available any time to discuss any concerns my tenants
may have.”

---
