THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1995

PART OF THAT NUMBER

Four Davidson students tell of their pilgrimage to the Million Man March in D.C.

By DAVID SANTSCHI
Staff Writer

While most of the nation viewed the Million Man March only from aerial photographs in newspapers, four Davidson students traveled
to Washington to participate in the rally. Called by Minister Louis Farrakhan of the Nation of Islam, the march was
intended as “a day of atonement” for black men to reflect on their roles in their communities. Speakers encouraged black
men to take responsibility for their actions and fight family breakdown and social problems.

Damon Colbert ‘98 and three others marched down Pennsylvania Avenue near the front of the crowd to the west side
of the Capitol. “It was the most peaceful gathering I have ever seen. It felt like no other feeling in
the world,” says Colbert. Another participant, Shakeem Lane ‘98, agreed that the march was very orderly and that people were
very friendly with one another. Both mentioned how at one point, the crowd took three steps backward together to alleviate
congestion near the speaker’s platform.

Colbert called Farrakhan’s two-hour address “a lecture that was spiritually and morally uplifting. His message was that black males need
to be better leaders in our communities. We need to stand up and take responsibility for our actions.” Lane thought
that Washington Mayor Marion Barry and the Rev. Jesse Jackson were also impressive. “They talked about unification and self-awareness, and
they wanted black men to recognize their strengths and use them to their advantage,” he says.

When one speaker called for the marchers to join hands, Colbert said, “I turned around, and as far as I
could see there were black men holding hands, and then we all embraced and we prayed. People told others nearby
that they loved them.” Colbert believes that although the march was not a direct promotion of the Nation of Islam,
“the Nation will be entering the political arena.” He registered to vote as an independent at the March.

Both students felt that the Park Police’s estimate of 400,000 marchers was far too low. “I think it was more
like a million,” said Lane. Colbert noted, “The media said the march would never take place. They didn’t want to
report that it was a million. But I can’t say it was racist.”

House from page 1

ming and international periodicals would be available, the International House would provide a relaxing atmosphere where students could learn about
international events. According to current plans, the House would also contain offices for the Dean Rusk Program, Student Advisory Committee,
and International Student Association. Portions of the foreign language department may occupy space in the building as well.

Ambassador Ken Brown, who is the president of the Dean Rusk Program, proposed this idea soon after he arrived at
Davidson. “Currently,” he states, “international activities are dispersed throughout the campus. It makes sense to bring together as many [of
these groups] as possible.” In addition to the integration of international interests, the House would also ease the strain on
many international groups that find themselves strapped for space.

Despite a membership of nearly 150 students, the International Students Association does not have offices. The Student Advisory Council, whose
offices are currently located in the Carolina Inn, recently has experienced difficulty in obtaining meeting space in the Inn. The
idea of coordinating Davidson’s international aspects and interests has been entertained byBoth students and faculty for years. Over time, as
support for the plan increased, this desire evolved into its present plan for an International House. Working to propel the
International House proposition to acceptance are many individuals and campus organizations. Ambassador Brown of the Dean Rusk Program has submitted
a memo of support to Dean Williams, which is currently being reviewed by the Facilities Planning Committee. The International Students
Association, Student Advisory Committee, and the Student Government Association are active proponents of the House plan as well. Berna Demiralp,
President of the International Students Association, explains that these groups play a pivotal role in organizing student support and involvement.
Shelley Rigger, Professor of Political Science, serves as Faculty Advisor to the ISA. She emphasizes that the “initiative [for the
International House] is coming from the students,” including the ISA, SAC, SGA, students working on international studies concentrations, and students
involved in the foreign language department. These groups are planning a campus-wide petition designed to assess student support of the
International House plan. Signatures will be collected on Wednesday, October 25 on the ground floor of Chambers.

Today, the proposed site of the International House is between the Davidson town library and the gas station on Main
Street. If the plan is approved, the building, which is already owned by the College, may be moved to a
more centralized location on campus. The result of the efforts of many people, the International House would serve as the
site of guest speakers’ lectures, foreign film screenings, AT sessions, round table discussions, and casual conversations among students. It would
give force to Davidson’s related international programs and, Brown said, “bring together those students who have an international awareness, and
those who would like to develop their international awareness.”

The Million Man March symbolized peace and brotherly love. Damon Colbert was familiar with Farrakhan’s ideas before the march. He
said, “Everything Farrakhan said at the march I agree with. I share his views. People take what he says and
put it in different contexts. But Farrakhan is the leader of the black community at this time.” Colbert added that
Farrakhan “detested black racism as well as white racism.” More of the Million Men had a different perspective on Farrakhan.
“I had many doubts before the march. I was 100 percent behind the march, but I was skeptical about Farrakhan.
But I was totally shocked to hear his speech — people take his comments out of context. The majority of
his speech I agreed with. But I can’t say I wholeheartedly stand behind him.” None of the marchers from Davidson
is Muslim or a member of the Nation of Islam.

“The march was a success, and it served its purpose,” said Colbert. “I came out of it a different person.”
Lane described it as “the most amazing thing I’ve ever done, to be a part of something that large. The
peace I felt was outstanding. It was a life-changing experience.” All four students are planning to participate in a panel
discussion about the march sensitively scheduled.

The Davidsonian is looking for an advertising manager to begin training this semester. If you enjoy working with people and
artistic design, this could be the job for you. Call Meredith (box 4935) or Andy (box 4689), or call the
office at -2148. This is a paid position.
