THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

MARCH 27, 1995

Tom Brokaw, Elvis Presley, and singing toilet bowls: John Knecht’s

By GEORGIE SCHIMMEL
Staff writer

Last Wednesday at 8 p.m., Dr. John Knecht of Colgate University displayed his films in Perkins Auditorium. Knecht is involved
with television theory, which he explains this way: “I tell my students to watch TV with their noses to the
glass. That way they see the individual pixels which make up the image, and the illusion is gone.” The illusion
of reality, that is. But there is a different reality to television, says Knecht. That other reality, partly the effect
of the juxtaposition of images, partly something difficult to verbalize, seems to be the inquiry of much of his work.

For example, Knecht is watching television in his studio in 1976. Tom Brokaw’s on. Brokaw is narrating footage of a
Parisian village lying in ruin, its inhabitants decimated by chemical warfare. Then the scene changes to an advertisement — a
row of gleaming toilets sing of their success with some type of scouring agent. Television, according to Knecht, “questions how
we assimilate information and raises larger issues of personal identity.” The juxtaposition of images on television prompted him to examine
film and the implications, intellectual and metaphysical, of the random mixing of media. How does he examine television and its
consequences? By making his own films, naturally.

Knecht uses two Amiga computers — “sticks he can draw images in the sand with.” His use of Amigas is
in itself amazing, roughly analogous to winning the Tour de France with a unicycle. Yet he is quite adept with
his unicycle: he can overlay image on image, working with about 1/30th of a second at a time because that
way, as he describes, “he has complete control.”

Essentially, Knecht’s work deals with the collation and subjectivity of things. Much of it is quite surreal. For example, the
human figures in his films lack faces. Small televisions on the screen throb with color against a monochrome background. Individual,
seemingly continuous action is on closer inspection a series of loops — one action smoothly repeated again and again. These
and other techniques convey his philosophy about television. In a piece entitled “The Possible Fog of Heaven,” the discarnate voice
of Elvis Presley narrates a metaphysical speculation into the nature of afterlife. In another, “Impermanent Firmament,” films explore the illusions
of television.

Knecht bombards the viewer with images which cannot possibly be assimilated all at once, very much like television. The driving
idea behind his work, he explains, is “re-contextualizing images, re-figuring them, juxtaposing one on the other.” For all his philosophical
speculation — he said in the middle of his presentation, “I’m in a metaphysical mood tonight” — Knecht ought not
to be discounted as an artist. His work, more video-poem than film, bespeaks an obvious, penetrating intelligence, a relentless wit,
and especially an inconcealable artistic flair. Elvis might have phrased it better.

Arnold Mesches' new exhibit engages the issues that perplex our country

By GEORGE WELD
Art Critic for The Davidsonian

In the middle of this century, the American poet Wallace Stevens wrote of a “life apart from politics” that was
the “radiant and productive atmosphere” of the poet. Whenever Stevens wrote of poetry, he was writing of painting, as well;
his statements on either medium may be taken as statements concerning art in general. His stance toward the issue of
politics and art is typical of a modernist attitude that has prevailed in American art in spite of the persistent
objections of the politically and socially concerned who find “pure art” amoral and irresponsible.

Arnold Mesches, whose gaudily beautiful paintings replaced the “pure art” prints of Ansel Adams in the V.A.C. this week, is
an American artist who belongs to a different tradition than either Stevens or Adams. Mesches’ art is steeped in the
political and the social, engaged forcefully in the issues that perplex our century. The title of the series...from which this
show is taken is “The Anomie Series.” “Anomie” is, as the catalog says, “a condition of society marked by the
absence of social values;” the word also suggests disorganization and personal instability caused by this lack of values. It is
a state of confusion and lawlessness, of moral inversion and crumbling structure. These paintings earn the title that frames them
through technique and ironic treatment of subject and theme. The paintings begin as small collages composed of images Mesches collects
with his pocket camera and his imagination. Mesches projects these collages onto canvases and converts them to paintings. Rather than
being a mere translation from one medium to another, however, this process transforms the images through Mesches’ consciousness. The images
are blown up and rendered more personal, more subjective, through brushstroke; in this way, they come to evoke dream or,
more often, nightmare. These are social observations and critiques double-filtered through Mesches’ imagination. A second effect Mesches achieves through this
filtering process is subtlety. He is concerned with making paintings that are too overt in their political agenda; he resists
the pitfall of simplified allegorizing or didacticism by layering his works with irony and their own artistic history. Formal and
technical concerns are as much in the foreground as commentary is; the tension that results from this relationship helps to
make these paintings successful in both the terms that artists such as Stevens set forth and in the terms that
political artists establish. Not to say that the social concerns of these paintings are not apparent: Mesches’ concern with class
comes through in paintings such as “1858; Steel,” where decadent champagne drinkers are juxtaposed with the image of a roaring
factory fire; and “1976; Bicentennial,” where cascades of fireworks celebrating democracy provide a backdrop for an extravagant table setting attended
to by an immaculate...

See Perplexing on page 13

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Bell struck with a mallet
5 Gives medicine to
10 Damage
14 Poet Khayyam
15 Silly
16 Border lake
17 Opera star
18 Within the law
19 Not as much
20 Grass-covered plain
22 Surpasses
24 Shade trees
26 Semester
27 Taken for granted
31 Farm machine
35 Feel sick
36 Military students
38 Floor block
39 Punish a child
41 Collection of anecdotes
42 Twists
43 Pierre's head
44 Deer feature
46 Asian holiday
47 Builds
49 Instructional meetings
51 Token of affection
53 Faction
54 Mare’s mate
58 More tidy
62 Scarlett's home
63 Sound in sleep
65 Wander
66 The Red
67 Business mogul
68 Cheese type
69 Manner
70 Perfume
71 Scream

DOWN
1 Zeus, Odin, etc.
2 Leave out
3 Church section
4 "The — of Wrath”
5 Puzzling situation
6 Small bill
7 Seasoning
8 Vote into law
9 Vendors
10 Assistant
11 God of war
12 Come to the top
13 Untidy state
21 Courage
23 Anger
25 Car style
27 Glue
28 More mature
29 Make jubilant
30 Small depressions
32 Columbus’ ship
33 Church official
34 Takes a breather
37 Narratives
40 Piece of jewelry
42 Altar girl
44 Gives a hand to
45 Noted
48 Sesame plant
50 Adjacent
52 Kind of boom
54 Stop
55 Starchy root
56 Very dry
57 Short letter
59 Raced
60 Wicked
61 Lively dance
64 Tried for office

©1995 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
