Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The Davidsonian

ALLEN DA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

VOLUME LXXXVII MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1995 NUMBER 11

Kelton gets scoop on US News ranking

Davidson’s drop to 21 inspires executive assistant to travel to New York

By WILL BRADSHAW
Staff Writer

Davidson’s drop in the U.S. News and World Report’s ranking of national liberal arts colleges is due primarily, if not entirely, to procedural changes in the way the magazine calculates the standings and a computational error on the part of the magazine, according to John Kelton, executive assistant to the president. Kelton traveled to New York and met with the editors of the college guide to learn exactly how the ranking—and Davidson’s drop—came about.

The rankings come from a compilation of six statistical categories which are given different weight depending on their perceived importance to college education. These categories are Academic Reputation, Student Selectivity, Faculty Resources, Retention Rate (which was called graduation rate in 1994, but was expanded to include retention of first-year students in 1995), Financial Resources, and Alumni Satisfaction. Davidson’s rank in 3 of the categories remained unchanged, and they improved in Student Selectivity, but a drop in Faculty and Financial Resources was the reason for Davidson’s overall drop.

“The drop had nothing to do with a drop in our standards or our quality,” John Kelton says. “It had to do with their computations and their changes in weights.”

U.S. News and World Report did shift some emphasis from Student Selectivity (which was weighted 25% in 1994 and 15% in 1995) to Retention Rate (which rose from 15% to 25%), but Davidson was very strong in both of these categories in both years and this change produced a negligible difference in rating. The category where Davidson fell most dramatically was in Faculty Resources.

Reach Out takes it to the streets

“Working towards being a more cohesive body to make it easier for people to get involved in service.”

By BETTY ROBERTS
Staff Writer

Into The Streets Week is a national service week (November 5-12) that promotes involvement in the community through a positive donation of one’s time. Davidson participates in Into The Streets Week through its affiliation with the Campus Outreach Opportunity League (C.O.O.L.), one of thirty national service organizations that started Into The Streets Week. During these eight days, colleges all around the country participate in this token of community outreach in order to acknowledge problems and issues specific to their area and also to publicize the opportunities that are available for those who feel the need to serve. Only schools that are connected with one or more of the thirty service organizations that initiated Into The Streets Week celebrated this focus on service.

Reach Out, the Davidson College service umbrella organization, sponsored issues that were worldwide in focus, as well as problems that are peculiar to the local area.

See Reach Out on page 5

INSIDE

THIS WEEK

First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC 28036Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

As national liberal arts colleges, Davidson fell from 18 to 49. The rankings for this category are determined by five factors: average faculty compensation, the percentage of faculty with a terminal degree, the percentage of faculty that are full-time, the student-to-faculty ratio, and class size. Davidson does not have statistics for all national liberal arts colleges, so it cannot rank itself relatively, but, according to Kelton, the college improved last year in every one of the factors determining faculty resources except class size, where it remained unchanged. Kelton says the perceived drop in Faculty Resources happened because of the change in the weight that each of these factors was given in determining the ranking within that category.

See Ranking on page 2

CONCERT AFTERMATH

Town meeting

A trenched lawn and some busted chairs were the focus on — food, laundry, money

By ANDY ARMSTRONG
Staff Writer

Using the CAT Card off-campus, at copiers and vending machines on campus, new menu options at the Commons, and new and more laundry machines in the dorms were all on the agenda for last Thursday’s town meeting. SGA President Bill Gullan and many SGA senators gathered in the Union Conference Room with Richard Terry, head of Auxiliary Services, and Dee Philips, purchasing/production manager for the Commons, to answer student questions.

Many issues were brought up by the SGA and Auxiliary Services personnel, but the issue of using the CAT card off-campus was discussed in the most depth. The proposal is to contract with off-campus merchants. Davidson would get a percentage of the profits. There are a few obstacles standing in the way of the idea, which Davidson legal counsel Burt Landis is investigating. The government scrutinizes ideas like this because of the non-profit status of the College. Davidson would be acting as a bank if CAT cards were used off-campus, which would require that more formal statements of declining balances be issued. A formal way to dispute any disagreements over purchases would also be needed to ensure students' rights. Also, the technology needed to scan CAT cards would have to be purchased by any business participating in the program. They would also have to adopt a system that allowed receipts of purchases to be given to students to avoid any conflicts.

Contrary to rumors, all repairs have been made and no problems exist. A pilot program with a few businesses was suggested; pizza places have expressed the most interest. If the idea worked well, the program could be extended to more businesses, with the exception of grocery stores because they sell alcohol.

See TOWN on page 4

GPAs revealed
Clearing up. Fettucini
Men's Department averages from
Morning After
Brothers Soccer loses
spring '95 tabulated.
Health Center responds.
Eat them you may.
heartbreaker

NEWS 3 | OPINIONS 7 | ARTS & LIVING 10 | SPORTS 13