THE DAVIDSONIAN BACKPAGE INTERVIEW
MONDAY, MAY 1, 1995

Just off a plane from Japan, Former Speaker of the House Tom Foley talks to two Davidsonians about politics.

Who have been your political role models?

First of all, my father. In terms of public life, my father, a prosecuting attorney and judge, in my own eyes epitomized the honorable nature of public service. And also people I have worked for — the prosecutor I worked for, the attorney general I worked for, and Senator Henry Jackson, whose staff I served on for several years before I ran for Congress. And I think all of them reflected for me quality and integrity in public life — and ability as well. One of the interesting things, I think, when working, as I did, very closely with somebody like Scoop Jackson was observing him in common office activity, interacting with him, and watching him on the Senate floor. I came away from that experience thinking even more of him than I did before. I think that is a very successful test of anybody being a good role model: to see them up close, and still think, not that they’re perfect, because nobody’s perfect, but that they are to be respected.

Getting more to the present day, how do you think the role of the Speaker has changed just since January?

Well, one of the ways it’s changed is that because the Republicans came into the majority in the House after 40 years, none of the Republicans in the House of Representatives, including the retiring Republican Leader, Bob Michel [R-IL], had ever been a committee chairman or a Majority Leader or Speaker. As such, it was a different kind of new event for everybody, a new experience, and I would say 60 percent, or close to it, of the Republican membership in the House was elected in the last three years — the last election and the election of 1992. I think many of them see the Speaker as the “Spiritual Father” of that kind of majority, so they’re quite loyal to him personally; and in that way, they’ve kind of empowered the new Speaker to take on responsibilities or to be able to exercise influence beyond what most Speakers would have been able, and have been able, to do.

Now, I think in recent years, there have been efforts — I’ve made some of them myself — to enlarge the authority of the Speaker in some critical areas. For example, the officers of the House were really beyond the Speaker’s control until I became Speaker [1989] and got the support of the [Democratic] Caucus, allowing the Speaker exclusively to nominate the officers. The Caucus could reject them but couldn’t substitute. We were going to do the same thing this year, and did it, with respect to the House Administration Committee. The Speaker needs to have an ability to set the agenda and to, not control the committees, but be able to urge and encourage the committees to process the legislation and to make schedules possible. Otherwise, the institution is so big and so diverse and responds to so many different influences that a legislative program can be hard to do. I have, obviously, questions about the validity of the Contract With America, but I think it is a pretty impressive exercise to get that many bills through Congress, and I think the enhancement of the Speaker’s office in part made that possible. I would hope that the next Democratic Speaker — and I hope there will be one soon, perhaps as early as January 1997 — will be able to also build on that enlargement.

One thing you mentioned in your lecture was the need for a “national dialogue” of a nonviolent and philosophical nature. What are our forums for national dialogue and civic discourse?

Obviously, Congress is a point of at least important national dialogue. And I think that there is a need to enhance the debates in Congress to make them less speeches justifying positions and more open and truly discursive debates. There was an effort in the last Congress to do that by putting on debates on general subjects — not just legislation, but on broad subjects, such as “Where should we go on health care?” and “How should we reform the welfare system?” Unfortunately, a lot of that has been dropped in a rush to deal with this highly articulated legislative program. So from my standpoint, I think the Congress needs to have more real debate — maybe more of it right before the vote rather than earlier on, maybe something that is dealing with general subjects rather than just particular legislation.

Beyond that, we need to find ways to carry on debates at the local level. Members of Congress have tried to have town meetings, and they have discussions of issues. Obviously universities, colleges, and other educational institutions have a role here, as well as the media itself. I’ve said that I don’t object to talk radio as such; the problem often is that it doesn’t encourage free discussion but it takes a strong position on an issue and then berates those who call in with different viewpoints. But it has the value of engaging people, and in an environment of technology, it is important that people have engagement, some methods and means of encouraging face-to-face discussion. Otherwise, people can sit home and listen to television and send faxes and converse by e-mail. And I suppose one of the things I was criticized for to some degree was not encouraging members to vote from their home districts. We could do that, technically. But if we did that, I think the discipline of coming together in Congress would be lost and people would stay home all the time. People would say, “That’s fine. That’s wonderful. They’re in their home districts. Isn’t that a good thing?” On the other hand, it is important to be in contact with your constituents but also important to be in contact with your fellow members and to exchange views with them.

The Hill, and the Republican takeover of Congress.Particular policy issue that is of interest to many people at Davidson, the idea of re-evaluating the funding for the arts in America is becoming more and more of an issue. What kind of a statement do you think this makes, when you talk about perhaps a major reduction in funding for the arts in America? Well, I think it would be unfortunate if the United States withdrew support for the arts. It’s not an overwhelming item on the national budget. Some people argue that the federal government has no business supporting the arts, that that can be well accomplished by private philanthropy and support, but it’s not as easy to do with private funds as many people imply. Almost every country today provides some form of support for the arts, and I think that for the United States to abandon it totally would send a rather strange message in terms of what we believe in, in terms of our national culture. Now, one of the big problems that the NEA [National Endowment for the Arts] has gotten into ... is in the area of performance art. That’s where almost all the troubles have occurred — some in other areas, but a lot in performing arts, and it’s always, again, at the margin, where incidents have caused great outrage and concern. Some people have discredited the overwhelming acceptability of public support for the arts.

Finally, how would you encourage students who have aspirations for public service, and how do you think that, as a nation, we can encourage people who are capable leaders to enter public service? Well, I think that students and other people who are interested in public life ought to be encouraged. I think for them the best course is to get the best education that they can. Thomas S. Foley is a native of Spokane, Washington, and served as the Democratic Representative in the House from Washington’s Fifth District from 1964 to 1994. He practiced law briefly in Spokane before becoming deputy prosecutor in Spokane County and later assistant state attorney general. In 1961, Senator Henry M. “Scoop” Jackson hired him as a special counsel on the Senate Interior and Insular Affairs Committee. Jackson encouraged Foley to run for the Fifth District House seat three years later. Foley became the chair of the House Agriculture Committee in 1974. Two years later he was elected to the chairmanship of the House Democratic Caucus. After the 1980 election, Speaker of the House Thomas P. “Tip” O’Neill named Foley Majority Whip, the third-ranking Democratic position in the House. When O'Neill retired in 1986, Foley became Majority Leader and in 1989 succeeded Representative Jim Wright as Speaker of the House. As Speaker, Foley presided over all of President Clinton’s legislative initiatives, such as the Crime Bill, the 1993 budget negotiations, and the Family Leave Act. He was an active player in this past summer’s health care reform debates. Foley was defeated in the 1994 elections by Republican George R. Nethercutt. Throughout his tenure in Congress, Tom Foley earned a reputation for his affable, conciliatory manner and stabilizing influence, often tempering other more partisan members of both parties. This congenial manner gained him respect from both sides of the aisle.

I happen to think a liberal education is the best preparation for public responsibility as well as for any other profession. I think that it is relatively easy to become involved in the political system if you’re interested in electoral politics. People would be surprised how welcome particularly talented assistance is, by candidates or by parties, as long as one is reasonably uncritical about the level of their involvement. If somebody wants to walk in and run a campaign on the first day, that’s not going to happen. But if people are willing to work hard and participate and help, they are welcomed. One of the things we have to do is worry about the reputation of both electoral politics and public civil service and other kinds of government service. From the elections side, politicians need to stop engaging in this gross negative campaigning, which I think is giving everybody in the political system a tarnished reputation. I don’t have any great prescriptions for how that can be done, frankly. The first and best way to stop it is for the public to punish those who use it; but the word on the street is that the public does not punish it — the public encourages and rewards it. Voters say that they hate negative campaigning, but they tend to reward it and may be unhappy even with the winner. Controlling political costs, campaign costs, I think is important. Public-supported campaign costs have a legitimate argument behind it, but it seems to be very unpopular, and I don’t think Congress will pass any legislation that provides any partial public financing, I’m sorry to say, for Congressional elections. The parties differ on how to correct the political financing system so it would be difficult to get a quick reform there. Some problems we have to keep addressing, keep working on. I would like to see the cost of campaigns lowered. I would like to see easier entry for challengers, whether it’s by giving them some opportunity for public mailings or television or radio time, along with incumbents. I think you have to think in terms of that kind of encouragement to get the political system perceived to be open as well as to open it. To put in a final plug, I don’t think term limits are the answer because I think they tend to restrict the voters’ choice rather than restrict politicians. If it’s the problem of campaign reform, I think we ought to address that. It is an interesting statistic that more than half of the present Congress has been elected in the last five years. Probably 80 percent of the Congress doesn’t remember Ronald Reagan, so there is turnover, much greater turnover than people imagine. That excuse for term limits doesn’t hold. I can say that now that I’m not in office.

BY LETITIA CAMPBELL & PETER VARNEY