ALENDA Lux Ubi Libertas

VOLUME LXXXVI MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1995 NUMBER 20

Physical Plant lays off employees
Due to financial insecurities, Bob Collins revamps operation
By JAY JENNINGS
Staff writer

The Physical Plant laid off workers two Fridays ago, sparking controversy about the operations of the department. Bob Collins, Director of the Physical Plant, made the changes in an effort to make the Physical Plant a more efficient operation. A Physical Plant worker who was not laid off and would speak only under the condition of anonymity interprets the “reasoning behind [the theory of] layoffs to increase fear to increase output.” The worker also suggested that “mismanagement” led to the people being laid off. Collins disputes the charge of mismanagement and believes it is an example of “better management and better use of tuition because of the increased efficiency.” The factors considered for retention were skills, seniority, dependability, and potential to meet changes. Collins says that most of the people who lost their jobs had been hired recently and thus did not have seniority with the college.

The Physical Plant had approximately 80 people before the cuts and changes were made. According to Collins, six positions were eliminated, two people left because of attrition, two positions were restructured, and two people were reassigned. 

By Mary Claire JALONICK
News Editor

Last year several students attempted to begin a movement for a co-ed eating house. The idea hardly even got off the ground, and students rejected a co-ed alternative for the familiarity of their individual houses. This year change was rejected again when a group visited campus to inform female students about the possibility of forming sororities. Why is this?

The character of Music Department Chair William Lawing was a student. In the last 20 years, Patterson Court has seen constant change that can be attributed to more than just the introduction of women into the Davidson social scene. Lawing feels that students today tend to be more satisfied with the status quo. In addition to this conservative nature, he also sees an equilibrium between the men’s and women’s houses that seems to benefit most everyone. He says, “That pendulum that I have seen swing back and forth seems to be settling, and I think that’s healthy. I was [a student at Davidson] in a very liberal time.”

When Lawing was a freshman, the Court had twelve fraternities, and over 90% of men pledged. Lawing says, “Fraternities were a necessity. If you were independent, then you were really alone. In a sense there was really no question if I would pledge.” The college went to a self-selection policy in 1970, when a group of independents made a strong pitch not to pledge. Throughout the 70s, with women suddenly on the scene, the Court went from all-male houses to predominantly co-ed houses. Twelve fraternities (our current seven in addition to Sigma Chi, Beta Theta Pi, Pi Kappa Phi, Sigma Nu, and Alpha Tau Omega) became three, and seven new houses were formed. ATO and PiKA became co-ed, FIJI and Sig Ep moved off-campus, and Kappa Sig dropped their charter. KA, SAE, and Phi Delt remained strong fraternities on campus. Additional co-ed eating houses were Fannie and Mabel (named after the cooks), Random House, PAX (for “give peace a chance”), and Emanon (“no name” spelled backwards). Rusk, the first women’s eating house, was formed in 1977. As the 80s began, students began to tend toward a more conservative approach and decided they wanted a new option on the Court. In 1992, Connor was formed after Spencer closed. Since then, little has happened to fundamentally change the structure of Patterson Court.the Court. “When we are in more conservative periods fraternities seem to be more embraced,” says Lawing, “In some periods of time [the ‘selectivity’] is more condoned. The system has evolved at different periods of time and has found a different way to work with each class.” So what does this mean for 1995? Will our children see the same Patterson Court that we do? 

President of Patterson Court

See Party on page 4

Experiential Programs to move
By Russ TARVER
Associate Editor

In an effort to enhance career services at Davidson, Experiential Programs will move from the basement of the Union to the current Career Services office on Main Street. An individual will be hired to replace current director of Experiential Programs Ken Wood, who will retire in May.

inside am THIS WEEK

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

Why the change? Director of Career Services Carol Jordan explains the move: “Several years ago Dean Will Terry decided, at Ken Wood’s request, to split internships and summer jobs into one entity and then have career placement and planning in another entity. We shifted students back and forth. When Ken decided he would retire, the college looked to see what to do with the two entities. If you look at other schools, all of the services are together.”

However, some worry that under this new arrangement, non-career oriented Experiential Programs could be neglected. Could experiential learning be neglected? Jordan says she will divide her current responsibilities plus the handling of Experiential Programs with Wood’s replacement. “The job will be filled by a person with a master’s degree and over five years of experience and who has had direct experience in a liberal arts setting, some very strong knowledge of experiential programs and placement, and the position will be a colleague for me. It will not be someone with less ex-

See Career on page 3

were placed elsewhere, and one position left because of “sunset,” which means that the worker knew the position was temporary. Andy Brantley, the Director of Human Resources, says the “Physical Plant is currently reviewing all of its functions to find ways to conserve energy, bring more

See Layoff on page 5

Dean of Faculty warns of budget cuts
By Matthew EIRICH
Assistant News Editor

On January 31, Dean of Faculty

possible areas for the next year. The memo cited “insufficient funds” as the cause for the possible cuts. No final decisions have been made about which cuts will be made, but Williams described the proposed cuts to be as “minimal.” Such cuts may include reductions in faculty travel budgets and the elimination of departmental travel and lecture budgets.

By comparison, other institutions similar to Davidson have had to make cuts described by Williams in the memo as “Draconian.” These severe cuts include salary freezes or reductions and the elimination of teaching positions or departments. Williams says the school has “no intention of eliminating any department ... Other academic institutions have actually had to decrease salaries and close departments and positions. We don’t have to do that.”

Williams says that the faculty’s common budget crunch is caused by an imbalance in the distribution of the college’s operating expenses. Williams stresses that “Davidson is in good shape financially” but its allocation of funds to various areas of the college needs to be reconsidered. For instance, while the faculty’s salary

See Budget on page 3

Smokin’ Bill donates marrow
SGA President’s bone marrow will save a 43-year-old’s life.
NEWS 2

Sexual overdose
Christina Roberts meditates on the broader issues raised by Oleanna.
OPINIONS 8

Oleanna
George Weld reviews the performance of Mamet’s play.
ARTS & LIVING 10

Tourney time
Women’s and men’s basketball and wrestling head to the Southern Conference tournaments.
SPORTS 13