6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Week in Washington

Million Man March stirs controversy

By David Santschi
Washington Week Correspondent

If Louis Farrakhan’s hopes are fulfilled, one million African-American men will have marched in Washington today to demonstrate their commitment to attacking social problems and family decay. Benjamin Chavis, the former executive director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) and an organizer of the march, said the gathering will be a reflective “day of atonement” for black men to evaluate their roles in their communities. Chavis believes that the event will lead black men to “take greater responsibility for the uplift and care of the black community.” Organizers say they want the march to show black men uniting against crime, illegitimacy, and social dependency.

The goals of the march have been overshadowed by its controversial executive director, Louis Farrakhan. Farrakhan is the leader of the Nation of Islam, a black nationalist group that seeks to galvanize black Americans for social change. Farrakhan has been termed a racist and an anti-Semite by his critics. Mary Francis Berry, chairwoman of the US Commission on Civil Rights, wrote recently that “Mr. Farrakhan routinely expresses the most despicable, anti-Semitic, racist, sexist, and homophobic attitudes imaginable.” In an interview released Friday, Farrakhan called Jews “bloodsuckers” and accused Arabs, Koreans, and other ethnic groups of doing business with blacks without contributing to black neighborhoods.

Farrakhan wants to start a political-action committee and a voter registration drive with Chavis and Rev. Jesse Jackson after the march. Farrakhan also favors an African-American development fund, financed by 10 million private donors, to support businesses in urban black communities.

His participation has caused divisions among black organizations. Jackson and the Congressional Black Caucus support the march, while the NAACP, Urban League, and a group of black Baptist ministers have withheld formal endorsement. Many approve of the Million Man March as a social cause but have lessened their support as Farrakhan’s earlier inclusiveness has been replaced recently with more divisive comments. In a Thursday news conference, Leonard Muhammad, the Nation of Islam’s Chief of Staff, refused to minimize Farrakhan’s influence, saying that “people coming to Washington, D.C. are coming because they support Minister Farrakhan.” Chavis saw no problem with Farrakhan’s involvement, saying “the attempt to separate the message and the messenger is not going to work.”

Many participants seek to minimize Farrakhan’s role and claim that the march’s speaking agenda overrides its controversial leader. Rep. Donald Payne (D-NY) believes that “the focus on Minister Farrakhan has been overplayed” and that “differences with him are secondary to the common goal.” Cornell West, a Harvard professor who endorses the march, maintains that “his call is different from the claim of the march.”

Officially, the White House has been guardedly positive toward the event. White House spokesman Michael McCurry recognized that there are those with “other agendas” at the march, but he hoped that “something positive” would arise. Several high-ranking black officials in the Clinton administration declined to attend the march. If a million men do attend, the rally would be four times larger than the March on Washington in 1963, where Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. delivered his powerful “I Have a Dream” speech.

The march has already drawn attention to America’s racial problems. President Clinton will give an address today on race relations, and Colin Powell will make a talk-show appearance on the subject. Whether one views Farrakhan as an overt racist or a liberator, historian Paula Giddings claims that he “will emerge as one of the most influential spokesmen of black America.”

Sources include: October 11 of The Wall Street Journal and October 12 and 13 of The New York Times.

Dean Rusk

Bosnian Ceasefire offers hope for permanent peace

By Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

Two days after the original date, the Serbs and Bosnian government forces agreed to a 60-day ceasefire. The ceasefire was held up by the Bosnian government which was concluding the capture of Mrkonjic Grad and Sanski Most. With these new conquests (which were concluded before the Bosnian government agreed to the ceasefire), the Bosnian government now controls the major east-west road in Bosnia which connects Bihac and Sarajevo.

The ceasefire is the last hurdle which needed to be overcome before the proposed meeting of the Bosnian warring factions to conclude a settlement in Washington this Halloween. If everything goes as planned, the factions will follow up the meeting with one in London to work out the details for how they plan to go about rebuilding Bosnia.

The most pressing dilemma facing the US is what its role in Bosnia is going to be after the peace. At this point, the US is planning to head up the NATO force of 60,000 ground troops which will be stationed in Bosnia after a settlement to keep the peace. The NATO force, which will be called Ifor (Implementation force), will police the zones between the Bosnian and Serb armies and will protect humanitarian groups. NATO has made it very clear that Ifor will not become involved in the aid and rebuilding.project itself (as US forces did in Somalia), but will limit themselves solely to peacekeeping and protection. This will supposedly allow them to withdraw from Bosnia after 12 months and reduce the risk of involvement. There are two sizable obstacles standing in Ifor’s way. The first is the Republican party. Driven by the fear of the political repercussions of a Bosnian peace brokered by Clinton and the Democrats, the Republicans led by Bob Dole are opposing any US troop involvement in the peace process. The Republicans are arguing that the US should continue to support the Bosnian government by providing them with weapons and air strikes. The second problem NATO faces is what to do about the Russians. Throughout the war, Russia has remained a thorn in NATO’s side. The current problem facing NATO with regards to Russia is whether or not to include them in Ifor. If this could be accomplished, it would be a major step towards proving to Russia that NATO is not an anti-Russian alliance. Russian forces would also be incredibly helpful in keeping the peace since they are seen as friendly by the Serbs. The problem is how to combine the Russian forces with NATO’s. NATO insists on having NATO generals in control of all the troops in Ifor. But Russia does not want its forces under the control of Western generals. At this point, there are several compromises being considered. Another major obstacle has been overcome in Bosnia with the formal ceasefire. Amazing progress has been made in the last few months towards peace which few would have expected. Unfortunately, the current peace is a rather unstable one that could fall apart. And there is still the actual settlement to negotiate.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1995

Perspective NOTES

Arthur went off his diet, he had to contend with the police and courts and a fear

Man fails court-ordered diet

WICHITA, Kan. - Sugar-sweetened soda. Buffet dinners. Cream-filled cookies. It was all too tempting for 505-pound Arthur Younkin, who was sentenced to 93 days in jail Friday for not obeying a court order to lose weight. Dropping pounds was a condition of Younkin’s probation on a forgery conviction. Sedgwick County District Judge Clark Owens ordered him to slim down after he said he couldn’t pay $11,333 in restitution because his weight made him unemployable. On Aug. 25, Owens ruled that Younkin had violated probation and set sentencing for Friday, when Younkin showed up carrying an additional 20 pounds. Owens said he wanted to sentence the former toning salon operator to more than 93 days but state law wouldn’t allow it: “Mr. Younkin is not going to serve much time in jail, and probably the state parole system is not going to make him pay that money back.” Younkin’s lawyer, Mark Manna, said the order and sentence were unconstitutional because what people choose to eat and weigh is a right of privacy protected by the U.S. constitution. Manna called the order cruel and unusual. “Most people on diets have problems,” Manna said after the hearing. “If of being locked up and having his life publicized.” Younkin has been working as a telemarketer and a sales representative for a farm equipment company, and as long as he is making restitution the court shouldn’t worry about his size, his lawyer said. Younkin’s legal troubles began in 1990, a year after his weight-loss salon business closed. He went on a shopping spree with checks from a checkbook he had found, buying appliances, groceries, and Christmas gifts—a move he later called “dumb.” He pleaded guilty to 20 counts of forgery and in 1991 was ordered to pay restitution. He said he couldn’t pay because he was too fat to work, but Owens didn’t accept that. The judge sent him to a work-release center and ordered him onto a strict diet, but some ups and downs ensued. Younkin lost 70 pounds in about four months and convinced the judge to release him then put back about 78 pounds and was hauled into court for altering the court-ordered weigh-in slips. At one point, people who spotted Younkin chowing down at restaurant buffets notified Owens. In August, after Younkin conceded that he had eaten such vending machine fare as nondiet soda and cream-filled cookies on six occasions between July 11 and July 18, the judge found him in violation of probation.

ALL STUDENTS

Are You Considering Professional School?

JOHN F. KENNEDY SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT is looking for future leaders in Public Affairs. We offer a 2-year Master's program in Public Policy, with concentrations offered in:
- Criminal Justice
- Energy & Environmental Policy
- Government & Business
- Health Policy
- Housing & Community Development
- Human Services, Labor & Education
- International Affairs & Security
- International Development
- International Trade & Finance
- Press & Politics
- Science & Technology
- Transportation
- Urban Economic Development

INTERESTED? Then come meet with the Kennedy School Representative who will visit your campus on:

DATE: Thursday, October 19th, 1995
TIME: 10:00 - 11:00 AM group session
LOCATION: Please contact the Student Counseling/Career Office at DAVIDSON UNIVERSITY for this information.

ALL YEARS + ALL MAJORS WELCOME!