THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING, MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1995

Other People just other people

By Mary Towles ALLISON
Staff Writer

What exactly is there to say about a band named Other People, anyway? If they’re just other people, what good
are they? Who are the people? Guess I was just in the mood to think irrelevant thoughts Monday night. Really
though, things sounded a little sketchy. Upon my arrival to the concert, my friend pointed out that two-thirds of the
band members had dreads — quite a diversion from the other bands we’ve seen. Bound by our stereotypical society, we
were expecting a reggae sound. This face-value judgment was almost right. Other People had a mixture of mellow reggae and
rock; I also heard jazz influences in their music.

I wasn’t completely inspired by the band, but they really knew their stuff. The songs were a bit too long
for my taste, and they all sounded a lot alike so it was hard to tell if five songs had
been played or if the first song just hadn’t ended yet. I also couldn’t hear all the vocals. On the
positive side, the sound was extremely relaxing and had a great beat that drew the listener in. The group members
were friendly and seemed excited about playing, regardless of the fact that there was only a small handful of people
there. They were having a great time and were really into their music. A lot of their songs had long
instrumental interludes, which, while pleasing to the ear and a real exhibition of their talents, got repetitive and took me
to the brink of wondering when and if they were ever going to sing again.

If Other People is trying to achieve a relaxing sound good for late-night study breaks and quaint coffee shops, they’ve
reached their goal. However, it would be in their best interests to give their music some diversity. I was impressed,
but the concert didn’t leave me with an emotional high. The people I talked with had similar feelings. One girl
agreed that the music was a little repetitive but said, “They’re just so good, though. It’s hard to write songs
that all sound different. They’re very talented.” These Other People were definitely worth hearing, but a whole concert is a
little much. A whole CD would be a little much, too, mainly because of the similarity of the songs. The
singers were great and it was obvious that all the band members were gifted musicians. They would be entertaining if
coupled with another band that had a very different sound, but hearing them alone left me wishing there was some
other group.

Symphony Orchestra features conductor’s work

By Liz Lockett
Staff Writer

Thursday, November 16, at 8 p.m. the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra will perform for the first time this year in
Love Auditorium. The program selection offers something for everyone. The repertoire ranges in diversity from Mozart’s romantic Symphony No. 25
to the “Olympic"Fanfare" of John Williams, composer of popular film music such as the themes to E.T. and Star Wars.
The program also includes Handel’s Suite No. III (from Water Music), Hebrides Overture by Mendelssohn, and for the first time,
a symphony by the composer in residence and conductor of the symphony orchestra, Richard Prior. Prior was able to reinstate
the Davidson College Orchestra last year after a 40-year hiatus. Prior conducted professional orchestras for a number of years in
England and recently joined and appeared with the Charlotte Symphony as an assistant conductor. Prior explained, “A school with Davidson’s
reputation and music department should have an orchestra."

See Symphony on page 12

Work Experience
A Simple Formula, But One That Makes A Difference

Invest in your future career by working as a community health volunteer in Latin America. Develop leadership, organizational, and cross-cultural
communication skills.

SNES, 800-231-7796
Amigos de las Americas
5618 Star Lane
Houston, TX 77057

While focusing on public health and environmental projects. College credit and scholarships are available. Write or call today for this
life-enhancing opportunity. Application deadline is March 1.

ON THE SCENE

Richard Garner lectures on “Morality: Who Needs It?” at 4:30 in the Big Screen Room. Harry Wu, a Chinese human
rights activist, speaks from his perspective of his experiences inside a Chinese prison camp at 7:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium.
Perry Smith, a tenor from East Carolina, sings opera at 8 p.m. in Hodson Hall. Jumpin’ Java is at it
again 8 p.m.-midnight at the Outpost. Tuesday Coffeehouse serves fresh bagels and doughnuts for just a fraction of their normal
retail value 8:30 a.m.-11 a.m. in the 900 Room. Border Children: Displaced and Living on the Border of Mexico lecture
by Maeve Hickey at 4:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Jumpin’ Java gives caffeine highs 8 p.m.-midnight at the Outpost.
SHOC stress workshop meets at 8:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. 21-Year Old Night offers some real stress relief 10:30
p.m.-12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Wednesday

Bone Marrow Drive sucks the life out of you 8 a.m.-5 p.m. in the Morrison Room and Chambers Gallery. Hot
Air Balloon Rides are offered 8 a.m.-11 p.m. on Chambers Lawn. Michael Pendlebury lectures on “Sensibility and Understanding” at 4
p.m. in Phi Hall. Frida Kahlo: A Folk Icon presentation by Maeve Hickey at 4:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Blue plays at 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Thursday

OXFAM Fast promotes hunger awareness. Hey, no cheating. CROP Lunch serves beans and rice 11 a.m.-2 p.m. in the 900
Room. Davidson College Symphony Orchestra performs at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Friday

Blue runs at 8 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Saturday

Johnston Gym Open — FREE PLAY 3 p.m.-6 p.m. FLAG Fashion Show opens the catwalk 8 p.m.-10 p.m. in Chambers
Gallery. Saturday Night Live at Jumpin’ Java 9:30 p.m. at the Outpost. Mrs. Knox’s Birthday Party celebrates the grand lady’s
entrance 6 p.m. at Erwin Lodge.

Sunday

Jumpin’ Java goes crazy 8 p.m.-midnight at the Outpost. FLAG fashion show Saturday 8 p.m. Chambers Gallery.
