THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1995

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
MANDY CURTIS
ROBERT RAMSAY

Associate Editors
WILLIAM ROBERT
RUSS TARVER

News Editor
MATTHEW EIRICH

Assistant News Editor
JOANNA JOHNSON

Opinions Editor
JEFF KENT

Arts & Living Editor
JOHN COPENHAVER

Assistant Arts & Living Editor
TERESA WHITE

Sports Editor
MATT PITZER

Photography Editor
ROB KOSICKI

Assistant Photography Editor
BRANDON CLARKE

Editorial Cartoonist
CHRIS MOORE

Copy Editor
LAUREN FREEMAN

Business Manager
KATHERINE HASH

Operations Manager
JOSHUA BUCHANAN

Advertising Managers
MEREDITH BENKE
ANDY BOSWELL

Circulation Manager
CHLOE BROOKE

Founded in 1914

“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

LETTERS

‘Tis the season to be jolly ...

Remember back in sixth grade when the period between Thanksgiving and Christmas was such a relaxing time of excitement and anticipation of the joyous holiday season? It seems difficult to imagine now. There must have been something to worry about... Now, it seems like there is always some nagging fear that there won’t be an empty carrel in the library or there won’t be enough time to finish that last paper.

As we head back into the swing of things after stuffing ourselves with stuffing (and turkey for those non-vegetarians), it is important to remember that life does not end after Thanksgiving and then magically restart after exams. Recall that this time during your senior year in high school, you were writing four essays trying to convince the Davidson admissions office that assimilating information and being a part of an academic experience was what you most wanted to do for the next four years.

Crunch time or not, here you are. Enjoy it, but don’t forget yourself. Set aside time to exercise in Baker. Call a friend you haven’t spoken to for a while. Go for a walk. Stare out a window. Think about what the trees will look like with no leaves. Breathe deeply. You are and will be OK (and, in some cases, ODK). You will survive exams. You might even enjoy them. The workload at Davidson is a collective experience that even that annoying person on your hall goes through. Smile when you don’t feel like it... and then maybe you will. Get started now — it will be over before you know it (all).

Thanks from Project Life

To the editors,

We'd like to express our deepest gratitude to Davidson students, faculty, staff, community members, and friends. On November 15 you showed great compassion for a very important cause, the sixth annual bone marrow drive. Over three hundred people volunteered to be registered into the national marrow donor program. It was unbelievably moving to witness so much support and empathy in one room. Often, we are accused of being apathetic, but on November 15 the Davidson community showed nothing but selflessness. Davidson should be proud of being one of the largest college drives in the nation. Because of Davidson’s efforts, over 2,000 people are a part of the national registry. One day, some of you will have the opportunity to give the gift of life. Thank you again for supporting this special cause.

Sincerely,
The Project Life Committee

Luv me some Jefe.

Many thanks for your continual publication of Jeff Kent’s amusing and well-written articles in the Opinions section.

As a junior abroad this semester, I often feel quite distant from life at Davidson. His creative subject material coupled with his well-cultivated sense of humor provide me with a comforting connection to Davidson. Jeff’s injection always seems to capture the interesting moments I’m missing.

Sincerely,
Jen Rawlings ‘97
Tours, France

Want a subscription to The Davidsonian for spring semester?

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

ONLY $16.50!
P.O. Box 219; Davidson, NC 28036
Send a semester's worth of college newspapers to your parents — what a nice Christmas gift!

The Davidsonian is looking to re-staff for next semester. We need news and sports editors and welcome any new writers for News, Opinions, Arts & Living, and Sports. Give Mandy, Bobby, William, or Russ a call at -2148.