THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 1995 13 ARTS & LIVING

Where's the beef? In the future, we will be investigating why McDonald's decided to make the huge jump—next door. But
can the Big Mac win out over the sizzling steaks of the Lone Star just across the way? Inquiring minds
want to know. (Find out in the next issues of the Davidsonian when the new staff takes over.)

Photo by Brandon Clarke

ON THE SCENE

ART
Senior Exhibitions. All week in Edward M. Smith Gallery at the VAC Art Galleries. Open weekdays 10 a.m.-4 p.m. and
weekends 2-5 p.m.

Ansel Adams Exhibition. “The Man Who Captured the Earth’s Beauty.” All week in William H. Van Every, Jr. Gallery at
the VAC Art Galleries. Open weekdays 10-4 and weekends 2-5.

African Arts and Crafts Exhibition. Opening ceremony of week-long exhibition in Chambers Gallery. 7:30 p.m. Sunday, January 29. Open 9
a.m.-4:30 p.m. through Thursday, February 2 in Chambers Gallery and the College Union.

LITERATURE/FILM/DRAMA
Four Weddings and a Funeral. On Wednesday, January 25 at 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Sango Malo. African Film Series. On Saturday, January 28 at 8:00 p.m. This is an African film based in Cameroon.

MUSIC
Kayaga of Africa. On Saturday, January 28 at 3:00 p.m. in Love Auditorium. This Washington D.C. ensemble of musicians, singers,
and dancers performs traditional music from all over Africa.

Carolina Chamber Symphony. On Monday, January 23 at 8:00 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

MISCELLANEOUS/SPEAKERS
Dr. Harry Smith. “What’s in a Relationship? On Being a Church Related College.” On Monday, January 23 at 4:30 p.m.
in the Big Screen Room.

Women’s Greek System at Davidson. On Tuesday, January 24 at 8:00 p.m. in Chambers Gallery. National Sororities will be speaking
along with students about the benefits of having a Greek system for women.

The Importance of Bone Marrow. On Thursday, January 26 at 7:00 p.m. in Chambers Gallery. Bone marrow donors and recipients
speak about their experiences.

CHILL CHASERS
Monday:
- Self-defense for women. 7:00 in the 900 Room.
- Creative planning for the Second Part of Life. 7:00 in the Union Conference Room.
- Health and Wellness. 7:00 in the Big Screen Room.
- Refugees, Hostages and Human Rights. 7:00 in the Wilson Room.
- Juggling. 7:00 in the Morrison Room.

Tuesday:
- Jumpin’ Java Chillster. 7:00 in the Union Outpost.
- A Short Course in Self-Hypnosis. 7:00 in the Carolina Inn.
- Europe on a Budget. 7:00 in the 900 Room.
- Financial Aid: A Primer for Parents. 7:00 in the Union Conference Room.
- Image Update Workshop. 7:00 in the Big Screen Room.
- Becoming More Assertive. 7:00 in the Wilson Room.
- Photography: What to Look for in the Viewfinder Before You Press the Shutter. 7:00 in the Morrison Room.

Wednesday:
- Phonics and Literacy. 7:00 in the Morrison Room.
- All About Beer. 7:00 in the Carolina Inn.
- Timely Tax Topics. 7:00 in the Union Conference Room.
- The Choices Involved in Taking a Lump Sum Distribution from your Employer’s Retirement Plan. 7:00 in the Wilson Room.
- Introduction to Home Brewing. 7:30 at 434 Concord Road.

Thursday:
- An Evening with Poets. 7:00 in Main Street Books.
- Storytelling by the Fireside. 7:00 at 553 North Main Street.
- Our Bodies, Our Sexuality: For Women Only. 7:00 in the Carolina Inn.
- The Rhythm and Blues Culture 1940-1945. 7:00 in the 900 Room.
- Creative Planning for the Second Part of Life. 7:00 in the Union Conference Room.Part of Life. 7:00 in the
Union Conference Room. - Yoga, Postures, and Breathing. 7:00 in the Big Screen Room. Friday: Chili Cook-off and Peppercorn Lane.
5:30 in the 9:00 Room. - All About Beer. 7:00 in the Carolina Inn.

Legends provides breathtaking entertainment
By Tammy Tiska

Why do we love so fiercely those who cause us the most pain? This is the question that Legends of
the Fall concerns itself with. “He was the rock they broke themselves against,” is how the Cree narrator explains Tristan
Ludlow (Brad Pitt). Directed by Edward Zwick, Legends of the Fall is the story of three brothers in the first
decades of this century and the passions that keep them just out of each others’ reach. The film has epic
ambitions, covering war, politics, love, birth, and loss. Aidan Quinn and Anthony Hopkins give superb performances, and Julie Ormond is
captivating. But the hype that this film belongs to Brad Pitt is not unwarranted; from the moment he rides over
the grassy horizon under the shadow of the Montana mountains we are as entranced by Tristan Ludlow as the characters
in the film are.

At times I was pulled into this movie despite my best intentions. I tried to remind myself that the “Damn
you”s were forced and the score manipulatively overplayed, but to no avail. The combination of Pitt’s charisma and the breathtaking
cinematography overwhelmed my criticisms. Legends of the Fall has the feel of a satisfying novel, bringing the characters home, grief
inverting itself into joy and back into grief again. Tristan Ludlow left me sorrowfully pondering why in our quest to
exorcise personal demons we alienate those who care for us most deeply.

Students share stories from abroad experiences
Abroad continued from page 10

In fact, Timmons actually witnessed an elephant knock down a tree and destroy a house one day. Traveling the globe
over a continent, we find the Asian country, Thailand, where religion major Seth Clippard spent last semester. When setting out
to decide where he wanted to go originally, Clippard knew he wanted to go to a country where he could
study either Buddhism or Hinduism. He grabbed the opportunity to immerse himself in the study of Buddhism at the Wat
Pah Nanachat Monastery. There, he practiced meditation, something which he still hopes to continue in the United States. He learned
many customs at the monastery, for Thai is a very polite culture. Pointing your feet at others while sitting is
impolite, and touching others’ heads is an unacceptable practice. Clippard became accustomed to the monastic atmosphere; there was no music
or television; he shaved his head and eyebrows, and wore the traditional white dress, the color of purity.

The people Clippard encountered were also very helpful and friendly. On the bus to the monastery, he suffered from food
poisoning. (He tried ethnic foods, including grub and tarantula.) As soon as the other passengers realized that he was sick,
they rushed to his aid. Clippard says that coming home was more of a culture shock than going to Thailand,
after being deprived of many western conveniences. Still, he feels that he learned many useful and interesting things which he
continues to practice here. “It was a lot stranger to be back than to go over there,” Clippard says. This
statement seems to be another common theme among many students returning.

BACK! Beware you're hungry... Buy one entree, get 2nd at half price! 892-3800

THE CHAIR FACTORY CORNELIUS
