THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 1995 13

OPEN-HEART SURGERY AND JELLY DOUGHNUTS

Students remember their summer jobs

By JOHN COPEHAVER
Arts & Living Editor

When I arrived back on campus from this summer it seemed like the most frequent question I asked was: “What did you do this summer?” It did not take long for this question to mutate into an article about student summer jobs. Of course, it is impossible for me to relate what everyone did over the summer so I decided just to pick a few of the most interesting job experiences I could find and relate them.

Senior Allison Sabel had a tremendous learning experience when she went to Vienna, Austria with a Dean Rusk grant to be a medical extern (only called interns after medical school). The first day on the job as soon as she arrived the doctor told her to get ready because her presence was needed in surgery. As an extern she thought that surely all she would be doing was observing surgery in process. The doctor told her that the patient, which happened to be an infant, had a hole in its heart. After she had scrubbed up, she turned to the doctor for her next instructions. He handed her a scalpel and told her to start cutting. After overcoming her shock and nervousness she managed to execute a successful open-heart surgery on an infant almost all by herself. As the summer went on she had many other similar experiences including the loss of a child while under surgery. Losing the infant was her hardest learning experience, and one of the most difficult moments she has ever had to face.

Teresa White, a sophomore from Charleston, South Carolina, spent her summer working in a Krispy Kreme doughnut shop. Although filling doughnuts with jelly and cream every Tuesday and Thursday is not as exciting as open-heart surgery, she had a learning experience of a different sort. Krispy Kreme was more than just a doughnut store. It was a meeting place, a crossroads, for all different sorts of people. The building she worked in had changed very little since it was built in 1954, therefore setting a mood which attracted a variety of regulars to the shop. One of her most memorable customers was Johnny. He has been a dishwasher for most of his life, but writes poetry on the side. Poetry is his passion, but he can only write when he is possessed by the spirit of Edgar Allan Poe. He has great hopes of being published someday. According to White, Johnny gets three cups of coffee and no baked goods. Doughnuts really do not suit his style.

Joe Mahoney and Sharon Walton worked with both mentally and physically disabled children at Camp Burnt Gin in South Carolina. The camp was created by the Children Rehabilitation Services to serve children with orthopedic problems, and later on it broadened its scope to include both.

See Hot Time below

RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS

Drive. Intensity. Those aren’t words you're likely to see in many course requirements. Then again, Army ROTC PREREQUISITE: ADRENALINE character, self-confidence and decision-making skills. Again, words other courses seldom use. But they’re the is unlike any other elective. It’s hands-on excitement, ROTC will challenge you mentally and physically through intense leadership credits you need to succeed in life. ROTC is opento freshmen and sophomores without obligation and requires about 4 hours per week of training. Training that builds character and excellence. Register this term for Army ROTC. COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. Enroll in MIL 101 - U.S. Army Today. Participation in the Rappelling Clinic satisfies 1 credit requirement for Lifetime Sport. Call Captain Sean Lynch at 892-2165 for more information or stop by the Army ROTC office: Rm. 2, Basement of Belk Hall.

ON THE SCENE

Juggling meets in the College Union Big Screen Room from 7 to 8:30 p.m.
SAE Court Party from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m.

Tuesday
Trent Graphics Poster Sale is occurring in the College Union’s Morrison Room from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Lou’s Greenhouse is selling a variety of plants on the lawn in front of the College Union from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Coffeehouse will be open with fresh coffee and doughnuts in the College Union’s 900 Room from 8:30 to 11 a.m.

Wednesday
Shawshank Redemption. College Union’s 900 Room. 9:30-11:30 p.m.
Rusk House Party from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m.

Thursday
God Street Wine will be in concert on Richardson Field between 9 p.m. and 1 a.m. with rain location in Johnston Gym.

Friday
Shawshank Redemption. College Union’s 900 Room. 8-10 p.m.

Saturday
Comedian Katsy Chappell comes for a night of stand-up comedy in the 900 Room from 9 to 11 p.m.

Upcoming
The Emptys play in concert in the 900 Room on Monday the 4th.
Lunar Luau, on Friday the 8th, will have games and music beginning at 9 p.m. and running till 12 a.m. in front of Johnston Gym.

Hot Time
From above, mentally and physically handicapped counselors. Mahoney says that helping and entertaining handicapped children is an uplifting experience. It “makes you realize how trivial your own problems are” in comparison with the kids. Although the counselors are there to teach and encourage the disabled kids, Mahoney says the camp is not so much about “what we teach the kids but what they teach us.”

Sophomore Elizabeth Field spent her summer in Washington, D.C. interning at The American Association for the Advancement of Science. She did everything from writing and editing in English and Spanish to playing social coordinator for different functions. She also had to give demonstrations of different science experiments such as the Butterfly Color Explosion Experiment to groups of educators. One of her most interesting insights she gained from her job was an insider's view of the Washington bureaucracy. She says that very few government employees work hard and that long lunch breaks and frequent “business” trips abound in our nation’s capital. Surprise, surprise.

If you were wondering why the campus was so beautifully painted, why the Freshmen Handbook was so sharp, or why the number of Davidson applicants is up, you might just find out the answer if you were at Davidson this summer. Russ Tarver, Josh Buchanan, and William Robert all stayed in Davidson this summer working an assortment of jobs. Tarver was part of a painting crew that repainted the inside of the senior apartments, the outside of some of the fraternity houses, the Union Café, and the outside of Prior. Buchanan worked hard editing the Freshman Handbook, and Robert sweated it out in the Admissions Office. When asked what they liked about Davidson in the summer, they all agreed that it was getting to know a bunch of people you normally would not meet and feeling a part of the Davidson town.