2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 3, 1995

BRIEFS

New BSC senator
Sophomore Mike Farley was installed last week as the BSC’s new representative to the SGA. Farley already chairs the Faculty/Student/Staff
Roundtable Committee, which brings the above together to discuss issues of concern.

Vote by e-mail
The SGA passed a by-laws change which allows students to vote by e-mail. From the document: “The purpose of the
change is to allow students to vote over e-mail and to help increase voting participation.” E-mail votes will only be
accepted between the polling hours of 9 a.m. and 5 p.m.

Minors one step closer
Student member of the Education Policies Committee (EPC) Gautam Srinivasan reported to the SGA that a proposal for the adoption
of minors has been created. Each department will decide whether to institute minors. A minor will consist of six courses,
and a student must declare his intention to minor by December 1 of his senior year. Students majoring through the
Center for Interdisciplinary Studies may also minor. The EPC is also investigating the creation of more concentrations.

SGA charters WALT
The SGA granted a charter to WALT in Tuesday night’s meeting. The vote was unanimous. Churchill Hooff, an important figure
in the resurrection of WALT, said at the meeting, “This is a historic step for WALT. This is the first
time in 10 years the administration has condoned WALT.”

Updating health service
Freshman Senator Lucian Dervan is heading up the Health Services Advisory Committee and reported on that committee’s first meeting to
the SGA Tuesday night. Dervan said the Advisory Committee created at its first meeting a three-pronged plan for evaluating the
Health Services Center. The committee will assess the problems, gather information, and re-evaluate the Center. The committee will seek to
rectify any technical problems at the Center, but also will try to improve the Center’s reputation in the student body.

Submit news

PRETTY NEW
The gorgeous weather of the past few weeks has put a smile on the face of Nancy Cable Wells. The
greatest number of prospective students visits in the early spring.

BLOSSOMS
Rob Kosicki

Blake takes the helm of DCTV, brings new start
By SARAH TEACHWORTH
Staff writer

You didn’t know that Davidson had its own television station? Well, that’s all right, because neither did the station manager
until a few short weeks ago. Freshman John Blake says of his ascent to leadership, “One day I found out
we had a radio station. The next day, I found out we had a TV station. Six days later, I
was station manager.” Blake wrote his name on the sign-up sheet for committee chairs at the Union. After about a
week and a few interviews, the Union Board informed him that the job was his.

Blake’s job is by no means being handed over to a video novice. During his high school days in Brighton,
Michigan, Blake and his friends formed a small film company called Exclamation Entertainment. The group made short films and even
produced a public service announcement about gambling which was shown to his entire school. The equipment Blake used for his
projects with Exclamation Entertainment was adequate, but he definitely feels that DCTV is a step up. “I may want more
sophisticated equipment in the future,” he says, “but what we have now is a good stepping stone.”

Earn up to $2,000+ per month working for Cruise Ships or Various assignments have kept Blake busy sinceday one. Just
this week he has taped the Sexuality Forum, Patricia Ireland’s talk, and the SGA’s weekly meeting. Each of these videos
were funded by and are property of their respective sponsors. Copies are kept by DCTV in case the station later
decides that it wants to air them on Channel 14. Blake’s goal is to one day achieve 24-hour programming. This
would entail a six-hour block of programming shown four times a day. His plan is to air the block for
a week while producing a new one. The task sounds difficult, but Blake is confident that it is possible, partly
because such programming was achieved only a few years ago. Though nothing is certain, he is toying with ideas of
having a live talk show, a fictional Davidson College mini-series, and a Real World-esque show set in a senior apartment.
Blake summarizes this innovative thinking by quoting Robert Henri: “We are not here to do what has already been done.”

CRUISE JOBS
Looking For A Summer Job??? SO ARE WE!!! Carolina Pool Management needs Lifeguards, Swim Coaches, and Swim Instructors. Seasonal and
Summer Positions available in the Charlotte area. No experience necessary. For more information call: Cruise Employment Services (206) 634-0468 ext.
C53632. For More Information: Matt Eirich 704-362-0748.

Scholars spend the weekend
By JOANNA JOHNSON
Staff writer

Last weekend marked the first “Scholars Weekend” for Admissions and Financial Aid. Seventy-four out of 121 invited prospective students arrived
on campus to compete for 10 different scholarships. Students interviewed with faculty and students, presented art portfolios, and performed for
critical audiences. Other activities scheduled for the scholars and their parents included campus tours, small group discussions with current Davidson
students, an open house at the senior apartments, a cookout at Dr. Kuykendall’s house, and a picnic lunch with parents
of current Davidson students and recent Davidson graduates.

Until this year, this “celebration of excellence” has been held in conjunction with Decision Davidson. The Financial Aid and Admissions
staffs chose to devote a separate weekend to the event mainly because of two new scholarships offered: The Thompson S.
Baker Scholarship and the John M. Belk Scholarship. The recipients of these scholarships will receive a scholarship equal to the
comprehensive cost of Davidson. Other scholarships included the Romare Howard Bearden Art Scholarship, the Patricia D. Cornwell Prize for Excellence
in Writing, the Donald Plott Music School Scholarship, and the William Holt Terry Scholarship. Recipients of the scholarships have been
chosen and will be notified early next week.

The weekend was organized by Kristi Kessler, Assistant Dean of Admission and Financial Aid, and Associate Dean of Admission and
Financial Aid Kathleen Stevenson-McNeeley. They agree that the success of the weekend largely depended on the efforts of the whole
Davidson College community. Stevenson-McNeeley says, “Everyone was very much involved with this weekend, and the Admissions Office is very grateful.”
Members of the Admission and Financial Aid staffs will soon decide whether Decision Davidson and Scholars Weekend will remain separate
events in the future.

A. R. Ammons, winner of the Bollingen Prize, National Book Critics Circle Award, Frost Poetry Medal, MacArthur “Genius Award” Fellowship,
and two National Book Awards, will give a reading of his poetry on Tuesday, April 4 at 7:30 p.m. in
the 900 Room. All are invited.
