THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, DEC 11, 1995 11

College Kitchen
Tastes like chicken (parmesan)
By Jay SHULTZ & Ros KOSICKI
Davidsonian chefs-in-residence

Our goal in writing this article is to provide a home-away-from-home cooked meal that is very tasty, easy to cook, and most importantly, affordable. We want to give students with access to a kitchen an alternative to the fast food capital of the world, Cornelius, North Carolina. We would like to start off with one of our favorite meals, chicken parmesan. The cost for this meal for four people will be about $20.00 (excluding accompanying beverages), and it will take less than 45 minutes to prepare. Here is what you will need:

1 3/4 lbs. boneless, skinless chicken breast
1/4 cup grated parmesan cheese
1 medium jar of your favorite spaghetti sauce
1 cup bread crumbs
12 oz. shredded mozzarella cheese
1/2 cup vegetable oil
2 eggs or 1/2 cup of milk
1 16 oz. box of linguini, fettuccine, or spaghetti
1 case of beer (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 F. Cut any excess fat off of chicken breasts and rinse them under running cold water. Place bread crumbs in one bowl and eggs (thoroughly whipped with a fork) or milk in a separate bowl. Add parmesan cheese to bowl of bread crumbs and mix together. Heat vegetable oil in a frying pan (set at med-hi). Depending on the size of your pan, the amount of oil needed may vary. Just put enough so that a thin layer covers the bottom of the pan. Next, take chicken and dip in eggs or milk, then roll in bread crumbs. Cook chicken on each side 4-5 minutes or until the bread crumbs turn golden brown. While the chicken is cooking, prepare a pot of boiling water for the linguini. When the chicken is done, place them in a baking pan. Cover the chicken with the desired amount of spaghetti sauce, keeping in mind that the excess sauce in the pan will be used to cover the linguini. Next, spread the shredded mozzarella cheese over the chicken and sauce. Place the pan in the oven, and also add linguini to the boiling water and let it cook 10-12 minutes or until done. Strain pasta and set aside in serving bowl. We hope that everyone has mastered the ability to cook pasta by now, so this part should not be a problem. At this time you may choose to add a pat of butter or garlic butter to your linguini. When the cheese has melted and is turning a golden brown, remove from the oven and see Cookin’ on page 13.

Brandon Clarke
Two students enjoy taking out their frustrations at Lunar Luau.

Apt. art from page 10
image. One of the bedrooms has an embroidered cow pillow, and the bathroom flaunts a custom cow pattern shower curtain. Only one other apartment was able to match the level of continuity as the last. Lexi DuVane, Lisa Knox, Heather Crouse, and Charlotte Grey refer to their apartment’s theme as “Jungle Love.” Matching double-decker cheetah print end tables sit on either side of a couch with leopard print throws. Several larger pillows lounge on the floor with various animal prints. Authentic African paintings adorn the walls. Two decorative plates offer silhouettes of an elephant and a lion. The room is finished off with an obvious resource: a hardback, limited-edition copy of the Encyclopedia of Bad Taste. I cannot thank enough those who allowed me a peek into their lives and artistry. I want to especially thank Amy Burrows for coordinating many of the visits. If nothing else, the experience was inspiring.

Courtesy of Visual Arts Center
Veronica’s Veil CVIII, one of Herb Jackson’s newest worksOn display in the annual faculty art exhibit at the VAC. THE DAVIDSONIAN IS SPONSORING A PHOTOGRAPHY CONTEST FOR PICTURES CAPTURING THE ESSENCE OF THE FALL AT DAVIDSON. SUBMISSIONS ARE DUE THE WEDNESDAY FOLLOWING FALL BREAK. WINNING PHOTOS WILL BE PRINTED IN A SPECIAL SECTION OF THE DAVIDSONIAN. FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL WILLIAM AT -2148.

Lunar Luau “Gets ‘Em Off”
By ELIZABETH COLEMAN
Staff Writer

The annual Lunar Luau made a spectacular appearance once again in Richardson Field Friday night. The event kicked off with the Wildcat cheerleaders leading their fellow wildcats in a spirited pep rally, a perfect adrenaline pumper to begin the evening. This social event sponsored by the Union Board is one of the most popular and highly attended school-wide activities of the year. (Of course — who would pass up free Ben & Jerry’s?) But for those who missed this annual social gathering, the true college spirit was in the air, as even the freshmen seemed to enjoy one of their few remaining Court-less evenings. Music, frisbee, and even Twister created the festive atmosphere that is ever present at the Lunar Luau.

The two most popular Union-sponsored attractions, the American Gladiator-esque “Get ‘Em Off” and the Velcro Olympics, were huge successes among the crowd. The Velcro Olympics consisted of an inflatable obstacle course covered with velcro. The participants, wearing attractive velcro suits, skillfully (but most of the time not) maneuvered their way through the course, while at the same time ripping themselves off the walls and tunnels in order to successfully reach the end first. Those Olympians talented enough to make it to the end without ending up on the ground to the side or stuck to a wall definitely seemed to enjoy their experiences as well as somewhat disoriented sophomore Dan Creekman enjoyed his: “There’s velcro everywhere, Da(rn)it! You get stuck!”

The other popular attraction, the American Gladiators event, consisted of a padded battleground in which two opponents stood on pedestals and tried to pummel the other to the ground with a padded stick-like swatter thing. This event was one which I actually had the nerve to try out. Unfortunately, my opponent, Sean Harvey (‘96) killed me. (I advise against anyone with my non-existent strength and agility to play a game that involves something being swung at you by a wrestler.) Nevertheless, my short-lived stardom as a gladiator was nothing less than awesome.

The one Patterson Court sponsored activity, SigEp’s paintball shooting, also drew a great deal of attention from the crowd. If you missed your opportunity to shoot paint at unarmed fraternity brothers who actually want paint shot at them, you may unfortunately never have the chance again — until next year.

Thanks to the Union Board for a great night of food and entertainment that was definitely a success.

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Change gears
6 Phooey!
15 Wading bird
16 Genuine
17 Usher's beat
18 “— over the rainbow...”
20 Cause to think
21 “— Time, Next Year”
24 Pitcher
28 Duration

(© 1995 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All rights reserved.)

ANSWERS
AAO OOO) Boooo <jaliol> ~|alwi< SOHO GOFF >]< jiu zw IO wlol- lw AOS Q]wiziolw -|clojz|o CO l= janie ry COAS GOAN ongcoS eH i<ic wlolal> SSoS ‘<|>|-[o >jo-iu —|ri<ja AOGO BABoo w|ejojw BOA Onpag BAO OOOO OO Oo ald iaiw 1O = iwiwia AGC <jalw od ed Cd od ad [ a0 -|alajo z\<ji-\|« lad Ld CL Lad bad