OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 20, 1995

Holt Vaughan

Trapped in a timed world

I don’t want to bore you with all of the details of my spring break, but I would like to share one aspect of it with you. The moment my nine friends and I arrived at our secluded Florida house, one brave individual suggested we turn off all of the clocks, hide our watches, and have only the positioning of the sun to decipher the time. We laughed at first, thinking it was stupid, but eventually decided it would make a great story. So we did it.

The first day was tough. We were all deathly curious about the time, but nobody dared check because there was severe punishment at stake. The next day was a little easier. The only instance I was curious was when I woke up. I wanted to know if it was before 2:00 or not, because if it was, I was going to go back to sleep. By the third day, however, there was very little talk of it, if any. We all got up with the sun and stayed up until we got tired. We had food to last the week, so we never had to leave. Except for a few weaklings, we tried to minimize phone contact with the outside world. It was just us. It was ten of the closest of friends sitting around, eating, sunning, sleeping, and going to the bathroom (not particularly in that order). Those were our priorities. We didn’t worry about deadlines.

Ike Bailey

Get that flashlight outa my face!

About a year ago I watched an Oprah Winfrey Show concerning shoplifting. Her panel concluded, “If you want to rip-off a major department store, take three black males with you.” While the security guards are busy following the black males, there would be no one left to watch you rob them blind.

Recently, concern has grown over the campus police policy of stopping African-American male visitors. It reached its pinnacle a week before Spring Break. One Saturday evening, a parked car, driven by African-American male visitors, was surrounded by four or five police vehicles. These same visitors have been stopped before. It’s disheartening because students don’t expect to see a similar scene involving white-male visitors. African-American students are worried that if such a trend continues, we will be further isolated on this campus. This is one of the reasons we feel less than wanted here. Are these concerns overreactions?

According to campus police, their policy is to check on and help any “unknown” person seen on campus. This policy is important because it keeps crime at a minimum and helps create a comfort zone unmatched on any other American college campus. It has been estimated by the Assistant Director of Public Safety that about 70 to 75% of all trespassers stopped at Davidson are white. Of course, we don’t hear these statistics being publicized because whites don’t feel victimized by racism when they are stopped. Again, are our concerns overreactions? There is not an easy answer.

If we were screaming racism, you could say yes, because the Davidson Campus Police do not seem racist. If you looked at the number of whites being reportedly stopped as compared with blacks, you could say yes. If you perceive us being hyper-sensitive to racial tensions at Davidson, you could say yes. However, you might think differently when you look at the numbers more closely. Logically, more white visitors get stopped because the majority of people visiting campus are white. This is evidenced by there being 1412 white students to only 53 black students on campus. You may think differently when you consider the stereotypic view of black males in this country. You may see our concerns more clearly if you realize that black-male students have been stopped in the same fashion. You may see our concerns if you think about them.

What needs to be done? The current policy of stopping visitors should not be changed, because it is a vital part of this community. But maybe the enforcement of the policy needs to be more discrete. There have been cases when “keeping a watchful eye” or following white and black visitors would have been more practical than stopping and demanding information. There have been cases when searching and probing vehicles was totally unnecessary and should have been avoided. There have been cases when inquiring about black males at Court parties was unwarranted. There have been cases when being black did not mean suspicious-looking. African-American students are tired of seeing their friends being stopped like criminals every time they visit, and we don’t want to see it anymore!

African-Americans shouldn’t be the only group concerned about this trend, because maybe the Oprah panel was right. While four or five police vehicles paraded around one parked car, there was a major disturbance at a Court party. Needless to say, this disturbance warranted the attention of four or five police vehicles, not that lone, undisturbing, parked car. This trend may be unintended, but...It is real nevertheless, and it MUST BE STOPPED! Appointments, or anything else of the kind. The only worry we had was trying to figure out what to do that day. No one was obligated to do anything. No one had a schedule. Maybe it was just me, and maybe this experience is not unique to some, but I can honestly say that it was one of the most relaxing weeks of my entire life. Then, on the final Saturday, we piled into our 1994 Suburban and trucked back to paradise (a.k.a. Davidson College). We could feel time bullying its way back into our lives. How long until we get back? What time do we have classes? When is our work due? It’s weird, but just thinking about those things makes you feel nervous. You realize it’s Saturday, and on Sunday Spring Break is supposed to end. One of the unfortunate realities of living in today’s society is that we are all overly dependent on time. Time controls when we perceive things must begin and end. We wake up at a certain time. We go to work at a certain time. We eat at a certain time. We exercise at a certain time. We even “relax” at a certain time. Then we go to bed at a certain time, and our day has passed. When I think back, I wonder what it was that made the concept of ignoring time so enjoyable. It’s hard to put a finger on it, but I think what it comes down to is that none of us forced ourselves to be on a schedule. We lived spontaneously. We did things not because we were supposed to, but because we truly wanted to. I think in this day and age, doing things for the pure satisfaction of desire is almost obsolete. We are so engrossed and trapped in the timed world we live in that we forget the purity of enjoying everything we do. I think we sometimes have to do things in life for the purity of wanting to and not so much for trying to keep a schedule. If you haven’t tried it in a while, do it. You might surprise yourself.

Rachel Newcomb
Sexual harassment is no joke
-Editorial response-

The frightening thing about David Mamet’s play "Oleanna" is that a certain number of the people who see it will believe that sexual harassment claims have gotten out of hand. That’s what a recent editorial in the Davidsonian proclaims. The play undermines the seriousness of sexual harassment by implying that most accusers are slightly demented, unstable women out to wreck the lives of embattled men everywhere. While this may be true in some cases, the majority of allegations are sincere and are a very real threat to the atmosphere of a workplace or university.

Christina Thomas believes that if women want to be considered the equals of men in the workforce, they must be able to “take little comments by men about sexually related topics or how we look.” She adds that she knows there is “real sexual harassment out there,” but that being hit upon does not count. Being hit upon does count if it results in making a person feel uncomfortable or powerless. Sexual harassment does not normally consist of innocent, good-natured attempts to ask a friend from work out on a date. In the hierarchy of the workforce, being hit upon is usually an issue of superiors abusing their positions by making sexually related comments to people over whom they have some power, be it financial or physical. The underlying intention is often to threaten the victim into feeling weak or inferior.

Women are hardly making the world a “land mine” for men. Until very recently, sexual harassment was something that women were expected to put up with, no matter how extreme. Implying that a woman who wants a workplace free of objectifying comments is trying to be a man is completely illogical. Openness about sexual desires, whether it’s a “guy thing,” as Ms. Thomas claims, or not, is inappropriate in the work environment. The way Ms. Thomas describes it, men are so distracted by their hormones that they are absolutely unable to be around women without commenting on their appearances. Furthermore, I take issue with the dangerous remark that women do “that female PMS thing and treat [men] like dirt once a month.” In the past, statements like these have been used to supposedly prove that women are inferior to men because PMS makes them completely unreliable for one week of the month.

Obviously, there are biological differences between men and women. But feminism and femininity are not incompatible. Does asking for consideration in the workforce imply that a woman is trying to prove that she is a man? If so, I'll be happy to tattoo a big “R” on my forehead so that guys will know which ones of us want to be treated with respect.

Write for Opinions. Call Jeff Kent. -2148.