THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1995 11

Snow, Skiing, Hot tubs, A Good Time! All near Davidson?

By Christy Sui
Travel Correspondent

With exams on the horizon, any article concerning the thrill of traveling will probably fall on deaf ears, so clip this article for the winter months after your return to Davidson in January 1996. The beginning of the semester provides a perfect opportunity to head for the hills on nights and weekends for some cold weather activity.

On the Road Again

It’s not Purgatory, CO or Snowbird, UT or Okemo, VT, but the skiing opportunities within reasonable distance from Davidson do provide challenges in their own regard. The runs are, on the whole, fairly simple; for example, an advanced slope at one of the following resorts may only classify as a blue run out west. Unlike the trends in the northeast, there are few, if any, tree skiing experiences to be had. Nonetheless, a visit to the ski mountains of Virginia, West Virginia, and North Carolina proves a fulfilling experience.

Several factors come into consideration in choosing which slope to visit.

Appalachian Ski Mountain (800) 322-2373
Ski Beech (800) 438-2093
Ski Hawksnest (704) 963-6563
Sugar Mountain (704) 898-4521
Winterplace (800) 607-SNOW
General Information (800) CALL-WVA
N.C. Ski Areas Association (704) 295-7828

First, the weather does tend to place restrictions; if it is too warm, alpine skiing soon becomes water skiing without a boat. Alternately, if it is too cold, road conditions can become too hazardous to attempt, especially at the higher altitudes. West Virginia slopes possess higher altitudes than those of North Carolina and Virginia, depending upon the individual ski resort. Unfortunately, these slopes are also the furthest away. Winterplace is the closest WV ski area to Davidson. With three-quarters of its runs intermediate or expert caliber, Winterplace has options for every level skier. In addition, it also has twilight skiing seven days a week. To top it off, Winterplace is easily accessible; simply take I-77 North to West Virginia exit 28. This is only about a 3.5-hour trip.

If that seems too far away, try some of the North Carolina ski resorts. Although further south, these mountains usually keep the snow blowers going strong enough for decent skiing. One difficulty for beginners and challenge for intermediate skiing (something rarely found out west) are the ice patches often unavoidable because of alternating warm and cold weather at the lower altitude mountains. This is only a warning; such an obstacle does not inhibit one’s ability to have a good time.

Boone and its surrounding mountain towns have several skiing options. Appalachian Ski Mountain, Ski Beech, Hawksnest, and Sugar Mountain are all nestled here. Because these are clustered within the same area, it is wise to call and compare student rates and special night skiing opportunities. Rates tend to go up on weekends, both for lift tickets and for rentals, so any weekday/night skiing you can do will save you money. Night skiing is a possibility since these mountains are only a maximum of two hours away. Season lift tickets are also available.

The Chamber Singers deliver personal renaissance

By Jay Hupson
Guest Writer

The Davidson College Chamber Singers performed their fall concert last Wednesday evening in the Presbyterian Church. The ensemble consists of 19 select members of the college Concert Choir, 18 students and one faculty member. The conductor of the ensemble is Donna Di Grazia.

Altogether the concert included four different choral selections and one selection for solo organ. The singers performed exclusively renaissance and baroque music; composers included English composers Thomas Weelkes and William Byrd, and German composers Johann Sebastian Bach and George Frideric Handel. Both Weelkes and Byrd are renaissance composers, living in the 16th and 17th centuries. Bach and Handel are baroque composers, living the majority of their lives in the 18th century.

The first two pieces on the program were Hosanna to the Son of David by Thomas Weelkes and Ave Verum Corpus by William Byrd. Both of these pieces are compositions set to sacred texts: the first one set to a portion of the Gospel according to St. Matthew, the second one to a “Hymn after theConsecration for the Feast of Corpus Christi.” During Hosanna to the Son of David, the four different voice parts intertwined together in such a way that represented the secular English madrigal. This is not too surprising considering that Thomas Weelkes is better known as a composer of English madrigals. The piece by William Byrd is much more morose in nature than the Weelkes due mainly to “the more solemn nature of the text.” These two renaissance pieces were followed up by two pieces by J.S. Bach. The first work was for solo organ and performed by the accompanist and church organist Jane Cain. The second work provided the highlight of the performance. The choir performed a ten-movement piece entitled Jesu, Meine Freude, (Jesus, My Joy). This piece is based on Lutheran chorales as well as St. Paul’s epistle, and “is one of Bach’s early triumphs in vocal music.” Generally, the 10 movements emphasize rejoicing in the name and protection of the Christian Lord. The final work of the evening was a bombastic piece by Handel entitled Zadok the Priest. This work was composed as a coronation anthem for George II. The choir performed this composition with three trumpets and timpani. Essentially this piece, in the context of a coronation ceremony, praises the British king and wishes him long life and a successful reign. In the context of the concert, this piece served as a good closer. It provided a bang to end the concert. Overall, the choir performed extremely well. Di Grazia, in one year of her tenure as choral director at Davidson College, has created a flawless ensemble. The Presbyterian Church provided just the right acoustics for an ensemble of this size, making the group sound superb. This concert represented a semester’s worth of the group’s practice. The singers worked hard and succeeded in giving a magnificent performance. Great show and congratulations to all.

Get Paid to Go Online! CLT Research Associates needs full-time undergraduate women 18-24 to join our online market research panel on our private online service, The Opinionator. It's a fun way to earn a couple of dollars from the comfort of your own computer. You must have a modem, and we'll pay you based on how much you participate. If interested, please e-mail your name, address, phone number, and whether you need Mac or Windows software to PROTOCON@PIPELINE.COM. (All information on the service is confidential and used for market research purposes only. There is never any cost to you whatsoever.)

CLT RESEARCH ASSOCIATES New York, NY

Celebrate Staff Appreciation Day (Tuesday, December 5) The students thank you for your hard work and dedication.

Building Services Custodians
Senior/Lead Custodians: Henry Withers, Dorothy Burton, Larry Persell.
Dorms: Sarah Sellers- Belk B, 1st; Sentelle B, 1st, Johnny Morrison- Belk 2, 3, 4, June Spring- Little; Watts B, 1st, Shirley Black- Watts 2, 3, 4; Cannon, Georgia Anderson- Sentelle 2, 3, 4; Duke, Maxine Abston- Richardson, Rosalyn Forney- Lingle, Brenda McCain- Irwin; Akers, Novella Tuck- Knox; PAX
Special Projects: Henry Withers, Supervisor, Tony Alexander, Milton Potts
Administrative: Virginia Houston- Chambers 1st, Ronnie White- Chambers 2nd, Raymond Christy- Chambers 3rd, Herman Burton- Chambers (part-time), James Lowery- Dana Science, Gary Donaldson- Martin Science; Public Safety; Johnston Gym, Sybil Donaldson- Grey House; Cunningham Fine Arts; Preyer House; Harding House, Rosalyn Forney- Jackson Court; Lingle Manor; ROTC; Sparrow’s Nest, Venecia Carr- Visual Arts Center, Herbert Smith- WDAV; Sparrow’s Nest, Charles Collins- Alumni House; Glasgow House; Smith House; Career Office; Carnegie B, Verna McNeely- Colvin House; Computer Users Center; Computer Services; Copeland House; Elm Row; Oak Row; Phi Hall; Eu Hall, Johnny Dubose- Trash Pick-up, Tony Freeze- Warehouse/Shipping/Receiving, Larry Persell- Supervisor
Dorm Union: Julie Mills- Manager, Linda Faulkner- Asst. Manager, Rosemary Turner- Cashier, Patricia Latter- Custodian, Verdie Beringer- Custodian, Cynthia Tilton- Food Service, Gail O’Donnell- Cook
Laundry: Mary Lineberger- Lead Laundry Worker, Dianne Forney, Patsy Borders, Cecelia Forney, Juanita Archie, Dorothy Curley, Robert Donaldson, Lula Bell Houston, Francy Bradford, William Philemon, Denise Wilson, Lenora Roberson, Betty Brown, Ruth Barnette- Clerk/Cashier, Juanita Barker- Cashier