THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 24, 1995

Trustees debate religion
By SARAH TEACHWORTH
Staff writer

Every two years, the trustees attend a retreat to reflect upon major issues affecting the school. This year, they combined this tradition with their spring meeting. Last Thursday and Friday, the trustees met in Litchfield, South Carolina to discuss, among other issues, the much-debated connections between the church and the college.

Three major issues discussed by the trustees were the requirements that all religion professors be Christian, the president of the college be Presbyterian, and the trustees be an active member of a Christian church. SGA President Bill Gullan, who attended the retreat, described the discussion as “very, very interesting” and said that he “was surprised and impressed with the level of consideration the issues had been given by the trustees.”

There was a presentation of the Presbyterian document, “On Being Faithful.” Afterwards, the attendees were split up into discussion groups. The groups first considered how well Davidson lived up to the six precepts, set out by the Presbyterian Church, of a church-related college. Gullan said that the issues would most likely come to be voted on at the October trustees’ meeting and gave tentative predictions about their outcomes.

Gullan said, “There seems to be consensus that the religion department requirement is something that must be changed.” However, he feels that the requirement of the president will likely remain intact. Attendees of the retreat seemed to be split on the issue of whether trustees need to be church-goers. Several possible compromises were discussed, such as changing the by-laws so the majority of the trustees would have to be Christians or so only the trustees elected by alumni would not be required to be Christians.

One definite result of the retreat, though, was that Gullan became more confident than ever that relations between the students and trustees will be improved. “I was very grateful that my presence was received so warmly. Many sometimes feel on campus that they [the trustees] are stubborn, out of touch, and that their minds are already made up. However, I found that was definitely not true,” he said.

Gullan was allowed to attend to represent the student body in accordance with the trustee by-laws. Former SGA President Eric Rosenbach was also invited because many of the issues under discussion were initiated by him during his term. In the near future, students will be acting members of the committees and will therefore be allowed to attend.

Cyprus program
By RANDY HARTWELL
Staff writer

Davidson’s Summer in Cyprus program, now in its sixth year, recently received a $50,000 grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF). The program, which consists of an archaeological dig and course on the Mediterranean island, began in 1990 when Professor of Classics Michael Toumazou started an excavation near the city of Athienou. The grant will cover tuition and travel arrangements for 10 of the program’s 15 undergraduate participants. Each scholarship was given according to the applicant’s merit, not financial need. The NSF grant will underwrite the expenses of two Davidson students — junior Geoffrey Carden and sophomore Jamie White.

Students who take part in the program are exposed to the three primary aspects of a major archaeological site: a tomb, settlement, and sanctuary. In its six years, the project has unearthed sculptures, statuary, and jewelry, some of which now resides in the island’s Larnaca Museum. Toumazou, who is on leavethe meetings and retreats. Gullan added that several trustees approached him to say that they love reading The Davidsonian and correspondence from the SGA and enjoy the time they get to spend on campus. He says, “Everyone wants closer ties between the students and trustees.”

INTERNATIONAL BALL
Lo, & Brandon Clarke cutting up the dance floor. Hi, Brad! By Turnage

Alumni Concerns
Graduates express strong opinions about FLAG

Editor's Note: In the Spring 1995 Davidson Journal, several letters were written to the editor commenting on the FLAG chapter at Davidson. Here are two of them.

I would like to add my support for the letter written by Mr. criticized an article in the Forum which promoted “acceptance and the introduction of the gay culture.” I am totally amazed and disgusted if that is the truth. I was a student at Davidson from the fall of 1929 until I graduated in 1933. I was a member of a fraternity, was involved in a number of campus activities including being editor of The Davidsonian, and I cannot recall that the issue was ever discussed, much less practiced. I don’t think our generation was any better morally than the present one. I surely hope not, which explains my utter amazement that any civilized person, much less anyone connected with Davidson, would tolerate such actions.
Edward O. Guerrant ‘33

It was with a great deal of delight that I read the edition of Davidson chapter of FLAG. I have been waiting for such an announcement since I realized I was a lesbian (shortly after graduating from Davidson in 1986). I was disappointed by the close-minded responses in the most recent edition of the Journal. It is time for Davidson to acknowledge that many of her alumnae, staff, faculty, and students are gay. Our contributions to the life of Davidson are just as valuable as those made by non-gay alumnae, faculty, and students. It will be a tragedy if Davidson chooses to continue to be silently tolerant, ignoring our existence, perpetuating ignorance. I made my financial contribution to Davidson in 1994 as I finally feel I can support Davidson by helping make it a more supportive place for people like me.
M. Amy Leonard ‘86
Bothell, Washington

Southlake Shopping Center
After Finals ... The Cramming Begins!

Having trouble getting your stuff home from college? Let Mail Boxes Etc. pack and ship it for you. From computers and stereos to boxes of books and furniture, Mail Boxes Etc. handles your shipments with care. MBE can pack and ship just about anything.

IT’S NOT WHAT WE DO. IT’S HOW WE DO IT.

10% OFF Davidson Students & Faculty on all services except postage, stamps, & money transfer. Current I.D. required.

Port Village Shopping Ctr.
Hwy 150 West of I-77
Mooresville, NC 28115
Tel: (704) 663-8833
Fax: (704) 663-7193

I-77; Exit 28 West
20601 Torrence Chapel Road #104
Davidson, NC 28036
Tel: (704) 892-9760
Fax: (704) 892-7794

Mon-Fri 9-6; Sat 10-2
UPS Authorized Shipping Outlet
Each Mail Boxes Etc.® Center is an independently owned and operated franchise. ©1995 Mail Boxes Etc.

This spring, has said that the significance of the dig lies in its inland location on the island. Diane Stirling, who has worked with Toumazou on the Cyprus program, and is Director of Instructional Support Services at Davidson, says the NSF grant will give the program national exposure.