SPORTS 14 MONDAY, MARCH 20, 1995

Cats pound Western Carolina
By WARREN BUFORD
Sports writer

Driving three hours to the mountains of North Carolina to play Western Carolina in rugby was not a pleasant experience, but the game itself was.

RUGBY
Saturday afternoon, the rugby team crushed the Catamounts of Western Carolina, 46-0. The Wildcats came out strong and played their finest first half of any game this season. They scored on six of eight tries, played tremendous defense, won most scrum downs, and silenced the crowd during those first 45 minutes.

Sophomore Frank Killian started the scoring with a strong 20-yard run into the try zone. Jeremy Potter, Simon Priestly, and Graham Powell also added a try each. Scrum captain Tom Shelburne added two tries. The Wildcats played excellent defense all day. Everybody tackled effectively and played aggressively to secure the shutout. Western had two opportunities to score, setting up both times on the goal line, but the Catamounts were blocked out each time by Davidson’s goal line defense.

The second half was less of a highlight film, but saw some excellent rugby. In particular, hooker Scott Young and the entire scrum won almost every ball, enabling the wings to execute almost every play successfully. Young also scored one of the two second-half tries. Senior John Walsh scored the other try with a long run down the sideline.

The win moved the squad one step closer to a perfect season, giving Davidson a 3-0 record. That mark will be challenged next week when the Wildcats take on county rival UNCC.

Busy baseball barrels through bruising battles
By BRYAN ALLISON
Sports writer

The men’s baseball team didn’t have much of a vacation, taking on several important Southern Conference foes over spring break in addition to facing some tough nonconference opponents.

BASEBALL
The Wildcats kicked off their break with a sweep of Appalachian State on Mar. 4-5. Davidson outscored the Mountaineers by a combined 29-7 in the three-game romp. Mordecai Stolk, Chris Pollard, and Jonathan Coulombe all pitched complete games for the Wildcats.

Pitching and defense remained strong in the next two games, but the offense wasn’t. Despite a strong showing from pitcher Mills Ariail, Campbell came away with a 2-1 win. Brian Cole pitched well in the following game, but James Madison, boasting a pitcher who was drafted in the fifth round of the major league draft last year, prevailed 2-0.

Davidson closed their spring break schedule with a three-game series against The Citadel, which was a preseason pick to finish second in the conference. After split-

See Ball on page 15

Tennis nets conference wins
Women top Western, App. State; Men blast The Citadel
By ASHLEY MANER & SCOTT TONIDANDEL
Sports writers

Friday, the women’s tennis team started off their conference season with an impressive win against Western Carolina.

MEN'S & WOMEN'S TENNIS
The team swept all three doubles matches to capture the doubles point, and they continued to play well into the singles matches. Senior co-captains Kimberely Nance and Nicole Wilcox pulled out tough matches and led the team to the 7-0 victory.

Saturday, the Wildcats continued conference play on the road against Appalachian State. The doubles matches were close at first, but Davidson pulled through with the victories to capture that point for the second day in a row.a row. In the process, Jane Stubbs and Ashley Maner won their third straight doubles victory at the number two position, putting their dual match record at 4-3. In the singles, freshman Lynne Hall won her fifth consecutive match at the number five position, helping the team come away with a 6-1 win. The squad’s next match comes today at home against Georgia Southern.

After a restful spring break, the men’s tennis team returned early to sharpen their skills heading into one of its toughest weeks of the season. The squad opened a stretch of four matches in five days Thursday, including one against last year’s conference champion, Georgia Southern. Davidson played well in the first three matches of the stretch through Sunday’s contest against The Citadel, which gave coach Jeff Frank the 399th victory of his Davidson career.

The Wildcats' first match was Thursday against Radford. Davidson opened by taking two out of the top three doubles matches to go up 1-0. Strong singles play propelled the Wildcats to the impressive 5-2 victory. Saturday, Davidson faced Richmond, one of their toughest opponents all year. Richmond swept the three doubles matches and quickly won two of the singles to take a 3-0 lead. The Wildcats needed to win all four of the remaining singles matches.

See Ace on page 16

Slagle pulls out of running for Richmond job
By Matt Pitzer
Sports Editor

Men’s soccer coach Charlie Slagle recently withdrew his name from consideration for the same position at Richmond. Slagle’s name first came up for the Spiders’ vacant job back in January and negotiations apparently reached a fairly serious level in February when Richmond paid for Slagle to visit the school for an interview. But in the days just before spring break, Slagle informed Richmond of his decision to remain at Davidson.

“My roots are pretty tied here,” he said. “The overall job here was just better. If it was strictly the soccer job, it would have been a bit more interesting.” Some of those roots include a camp that Slagle will run for the 15th year this summer. Slagle also graduated from Davidson in 1975. As coach, he led the Wildcats to one of the greatest athletic accomplishments in school history when his team advanced to the final four in 1992, also the first year the championships were held here.

Slagle said he received “assurances, but nothing official” from Davidson that, among other things, “I could coach here basically as long as I want.” He apparently also received a pledge from the school that he could continue running his camp at will. Speculation had grown that Slagle might be interested in jumping to the Spiders, especially considering that Richmond will host the final four this coming fall. Slagle, of course, played a large part in, first, convincing the NCAA to award the championships to Davidson and, second, ensuring that the tournament ran very smoothly in each of its three years here.

"Just to be associated with the national championships wouldn't be a big enough benefit for me," he said. More important to Slagle was his commitment to Davidson. "My whole goal is to keep the status quo whenever possible,” Slagle said. “I like to think of myself as part of Davidson and, hopefully, vice-versa.”