THE DAVIDSONIAN

_SPORTS

MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1995

Soccer
By Kristy Ford
Staff Writer

The women’s soccer team was unable to capture the regular season title this week for the second time this year, tying Furman 2-2 on Tuesday.

WOMEN’S SOCCER

But the Wildcats (9-9-2 after beating Georgia State 2-0 in Sunday’s regular-season finale) are ready for the tournament.

“We had to beat Furman to be in the running for first in the conference,” said Coach Hundley.

The team has been plagued with injuries lately and as a result played this week without its two leading scorers. Lucia Plosser suffers from a broken toe, and Heather Wineberg has a sprained knee. Both Claudia Lombard and Amy Kanoff have been playing with ankle problems and Shannon Lowrance played the last week with a separated shoulder.

Friday, the Wildcats played their final conference game and defeated Appalachian State 2-1 despite rain delays.

Davidson dominated the game and the Mountaineers never threatened in the second half. With a change in the line-up, Kelly Amann moved to forward and proved herself by scoring the team’s two goals. The first was unassisted and the second was a header off of Kanoff’s corner kick.

“This was a good win. We played and won against opposition such as the rain and injured players,” said Coach Hundley.

Heading into this weekend, the Wildcats look like the team to beat. Last year they won the regular season title as well as the Southern Conference tournament. This year, with the second or third seed, some pressure will be lifted off the team to repeat.

“This team has played really hard despite our injuries,” said Coach Hundley. “This week we need to assume we won't have Lucia and Heather and for people to continue to step up so we can find new offensive combinations for the tournament.”

Davidson will play Georgia Southern, and Furman and Appalachian State meet in the four-team tournament.

The squad also says goodbye to three key seniors this weekend who have made big contributions to the program in their stay: Heather Wineberg, Shannon Lowrance, and Claudia Lombard.

Added Hundley: “There has been outstanding leadership from these three, each in their own way, all the way through. This has been the most unified team I have had and it shows on the field. These girls will be tough to replace.”

Tourneys

from page 1

that is key to running games. What it comes down to is how you handle detail.”

He added that the experience of the final four helped build that infrastructure and understanding of strengths. In the first year of the final four, Sargent said, Davidson lost $60,000, but in the two successive years the school improved the way it handled the tournament and made up that revenue.

Davidson hosted the championships from 1992-94, and the tournament was widely viewed as a huge success. Before coming to Davidson, the final four attracted sparse crowds and meager publicity at the previous host sites. But the event sold out each year it was here, even though additional seats were added every year.

“The NCAA’s were a hugely successful event for Davidson, just not financially,” Sargent said. “The Admissions Office benefitted as much as anybody. Coaches used it in recruiting, etc. In order to do it, we had to improve the stadium, the lighting, get a higher scoreboard, but the ancillary benefits of the NCAA were huge, while financially it was a wash.”

The Southern Conference tournaments will not have the same national exposure, but Sargent says that it adds to Davidson’s reputation as a host school. He sees these tournaments as a stepping stone to future events, including a possible exhibition game between the U.S. and German men’s soccer teams and maybe a World Cup qualifying game.

“There are three revenue-producing tourneys (in Southern Conference men’s athletics): Basketball, football playoffs and the baseball tourney,” Sargent explained. “We are trying to pattern the soccer tourney on the conference baseball tournament. It is in much the same way as we tried to pattern the NCAA’s on Omaha. . . . The budget we presented has been accepted. We now have to produce sponsors and ticket sales to cover it. If revenues outstrip sales then all teams split the leftover revenue (according to the number of games played in the tournament, so one game equals one revenue share). Our objective is to run a successful event and give a little back to each team to cover expenses.”

The volleyball tournament, according to Sargent, is handled similarly to most of the non-revenue producing sports within the conference. The sites vary, and it is run on a Southern Conference format.

Tickets for the soccer tournaments are now on sale in the ticket office and will be on sale at the gate. Ticket books for all four sessions are $8 or $4 per session. Books will be on sale for the first two sessions, and all spectators must pay to attend, including Davidson students. Volleyball tickets will be $3 per session.

Men’s soccer coach Charlie Slagle and women’s coach Kevin Hundley are both excited about the tournaments being at Davidson, and both said it will be a more intimate place to play than Bryant Park in Greensboro, where it was held last year.

“We’re excited that the tournament is on a campus site and not a neutral one,” Hundley said. “The tournament was not very well attended by any school in the past, and the on-campus support will be great particularly if we reach the finals on Sunday.”

Monday - Friday
Saturday

Sunday

9 am - 9 pm
9 am - 6 pm

Noon - 5 pm

Target

Great Clips

Exit 25

I-77

Sam Furr Rd.

Haircut & Blowdry

$2.99

Reg. $9.00
Good Thru 11/17/96