14

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

Men’s tennis rips W&L

Women lose close match to ECU

By SCOTT TONIDANDEL & ASHLEY MANER
Sports writers

Despite playing without its two top players, the Davidson men’s tennis team routed Washington & Lee 7-0 Saturday at home. Senior captain Holt Vaughan and freshman John Pastel had to sit out the match because they had played in an extra match in the fall. Even without them, though, the Wildcats swept all the matches. The match marked the first opportunity for Davidson sophomore transfer Derek Schulze to face off against his former team. Schulze teamed up with junior Scott Tonidandel for an 8-6 win at the number three doubles spot, and he then proceeded to defeat one of his former teammates, 6-4, 6-3, at the number four singles spot.

“It was strange to have to play against many of my old friends,” Schulze said, “but it felt good to go out there and beat them 7-0.”

Davidson’s next match is Tuesday against Pfeiffer at 2 p.m. at home.

Friday, the women’s tennis team came up a little short in its first dual match of the season against East Carolina, 4-3. Davidson jumped out to a quick 3-1 lead in the singles after Kimberly Nance, Ashley Maner, and Lynne Hall won their matches. ECU fought back, however, in the remaining singles matches to even the score at 3-3. The Wildcats fell short in the doubles and ECU clinched the match.

“Even though we lost, I felt everyone played really well,” senior co-captain Kimberly Nance said. “It was a good start for the season.”

Saturday, Davidson faced off against two of their toughest opponents of the season, South Carolina and College of Charleston. Despite a quick loss to nationally ranked USC, the Wildcats fared much better against Charleston. They played tough, but ultimately fell just short again 4-2.

Davidson next plays Tuesday at 2 p.m. at Winthrop.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1995

Rob Kosicki

Men’s tennis shot an ace right through the heart of W&L.

Baseball finally steps to plate; loses first four

By BRYAN ALLISON
Sports writer

After several aborted attempts to start their season because of inclement weather, the baseball team finally began their season last Tuesday at UNC-Greensboro. Unfortunately, after four games, the Wildcats are still looking for their first victory.

After leading 4-1 through six innings Tuesday, the Spartans scored six runs in the seventh and two in the eighth to win 9-4. Chris Pollard pitched six strong innings, giving up just one run on three hits. Defense was a bright spot for the Wildcats, as they turned three double plays. Jeff Andrews, Mark Reilly, and Brian Krehmeyer also had solid performances.

The following day in Winston-Salem, Davidson ran into a tough Wake Forest team, which boasts several pro prospects. The Wildcats lost big, 19-1. Brian Penny provided all the offense with a solo home run. Preparing for ACC conference play, the Deacons tossed seven pitchers at Davidson, six of whom threw the ball between 88 and 91 M.P.H.

“We ran into possibly the best pitching staff I’ve seen in my five years here,” coach Dick Cooke said. “It’s a good test for us. We are inexperienced at some spots. Some guys are still getting their feet wet.”

Saturday, Davidson traveled to Western Carolina for a doubleheader and were swept by the Catamounts, 7-0 and 5-2. In the first game, Davidson had 12 hits but could not get a run. Western Carolina helped out their cause by turning three double plays. Mark Reilly led the way for the Wildcats with four hits in four at-bats. Davidson committed four errors, which led to three unearned runs. Jonathan Coulombe took the loss for the Wildcats, giving up seven runs, only three earned.

In the second game, Davidson led 2-1 until the bottom of the sixth when Western Carolina hit two home runs and took a 5-2 lead. Davidson managed nine hits in the game, all singles. For the day, Rhett Ingerick went three for six, and both Gus Quattlebaum and Brad Edwards went three for seven on the day.

The Wildcats look to get on track on Wednesday at UNCC in a makeup game. On Friday, they travel back to Wake Forest, hoping to avenge last week’s loss. Next weekend, Davidson faces ASU.

Women’s lax takes show on the road

By PAOLA LEAL
Sports writer

The women’s lacrosse team has begun to reach out into the community to introduce the sport of lacrosse to local middle school athletes. Recently, women’s coach Nancy Billger and lacrosse team members traveled to Mount Mourne School in Mooresville to hold clinics for fifth grade physical education classes.

“For most of the young girls, this was a new experience,” Billger said. “They learned basic skills like catching and throwing while interacting with Davidson players.”

The women’s team will open its spring season Mar. 4-5 at the William & Mary tournament.

Check out the New '95 Models!!!
Come See Our NEW Selection of Boots and Equipment

OUTDOORS

Shops on the Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn

CHILE RISTRAS

Starting March 1st...

11:30 to 2 p.m.

Exit 28 into Cornelius.

Liverpool Parkway across from Movies at the Lake.

Dining Room open for lunch.

- DRIVE THRU WINDOW NOW OPEN FOR LUNCH. 11:30-4pm
- CALL IN YOUR ORDER: 896-9980.