THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS, MONDAY, MARCH 20, 1995

This time when she calls, her voice is hollow. You search for some substance to the conversation, but she does not respond. You struggle with the space of grey air that seems to be enveloping the lines because she is your sister, your best friend, or your ex-girlfriend, and you cannot stand this silence. This time when you ask her if she has been seeing anyone, she stalls. You come to understand that this pause is the very cause of the silence, and a chill runs through you. And suddenly, the silence is drenched with sobs and you lose yourself in her anguish.

It seems he never forced her. He never heard her “no” because she never said it. She never said her “no” because she never expected anything. At this point, you can’t tell if she was drunk, or if he was drunk, or if they were both sober, but deep down inside you know that fact is not what matters. So, you try to calm her, too many miles away to be of any real help. You whisper that it is okay knowing very well that it is not. You tell her that you are sorry, so very, very sorry, knowing that truth does not help. You scream that you want to hurt him the way he has hurt her, but you know deep down that he does not deserve the full blame. And so eventually, you calm your mind and tame your soul. You quit trying so hard to search for an enemy to bear the brunt of your sadness and her pain. The enemy, it seems, was the silence that enveloped their night.

This time when the women you know talk about their dates, you remind them to set their limits—whatever those limits might be to them. You remind them to let those limits be heard. Let their “yes” mean “yes” and their “no” mean “no” so that no one else, man or woman, may be the victim of their ambiguity down the road. This time when the men you know talk about their dates, you remind them to ask; silence may sometimes insinuate fear rather than approval. You remind them that they too can set their limits. You remind them that silence can also be destructive.

This time when she calls, she is better. Her voice sounds stronger and relieved. She has spoken to him, she tells you. And while it was a conversation that should have taken place long ago, before her fear and pain could ever be realized, she is comforted by the lines of communication that are now open. It seems that he never forced her and that she never said no. It was not wrong, but it was not right. She hated the result but never interrupted the proceedings. He respected who she was but never asked what she wanted. She knew what she expected but never thought about what might happen. He wanted to please her but didn’t know to ask. She was afraid to find her voice and unable to hold her tears. The lesson they learned was not worth the pain. The need to communicate moves beyond the classroom. They ended up better. The next time she calls won’t be the result of the silence.

'Twas not Charles Barrus

I recently had the pleasure of seeing Disclosure, starring Michael Douglas and Demi Moore. I found it to be very interesting. The film deals with an incident where a female employee sexually harasses her male co-worker. This situation was very intriguing to me because, although such things inevitably occur in this age of career women, whenever we think of sexual harassment, we pretty much always assume the man is the perpetrator.

This got me to thinking. What other acts are women just as guilty of as men, but never receive any blame? One example readily popped into mind—pooting. When someone passes gas in a room of mixed company, some poor guy always gets blamed. We all have the same digestive systems, but for some reason girls have managed to trick everybody into forgetting that fact. In doing so they have dumped the blame for their share of bad air onto us guys.

An experience I had in class last week made me realize that this double standard has to end. It all started in my English literature class. I was sitting in my customary desk in the back of the classroom listening to the professor drone on and on about Shakespeare. All of a sudden an odor hit my nose like a freight train. Something may have been rotten in the state of Denmark, but it couldn’t compare to this smell. I suspected that the guilty party was the petite blond girl who shared the back row with me, and my suspicions were confirmed when an empty bean burrito wrapper rolled out of her book bag as she searched for a pen.

All of a sudden I noticed that almost the entire class was looking back at me with a disgusted look on their faces. Me! Even the petite blond girl looked at me and pinched her nose. The professor put down his Shakespeare long enough to subtly open the window while shooting me an evil glance. But it wasn’t even my fault! I’m like the PLO of farts; when somebody detonates a bomb they don’t want to claim, they say I did it. Guys are unfortunately on the short end of the stick in situations like this. What would Shakespeare say?if he were me? Hmmmm. Hark! Is that a female from which yonder wind breaks? It is indeed, for I am not the one! DISTRIBUTED BY TRIBUNE MEDIA SERVICES

DEJA VU! ... DEJA NY RESIN! ss WEIR VOU... Blue B GOLDFISH BORED. ARE NEVER Corey Bean

Which came first, the chicken or the egg? The evolution debate continues

Before Spring Break, The Davidsonian printed an article by Eric Sapp entitled “Evolution: the elaborate lie” (The Davidsonian, Feb. 13). Sapp made one noteworthy point; the theory of evolution “is taught simply because no better [theory concerning the development of life] can be found.” Too often, scientific theory is blindly accepted as immutable fact. A good theory must (a) accurately describe a large class of observations on the basis of a model that contains only a few arbitrary elements, and (b) make definite predictions about the results of future observations. Evolution fits both criteria; it is a good theory, not an “elaborate lie.”

My agreement with Sapp’s thoughts on evolution stops where his pseudoscientific arguments against the theory begin. Sapp states that evolutionary theory’s claim that less complex organisms gave rise to more complex organisms violates the second law of thermodynamics. However, biological systems build more complex material from less complex material every day, just as bricks (less complex things) make up the Chambers building (a more complex thing). Heat, useless disordered energy, is a byproduct of all these actions and reactions. Building complex biological systems does not violate the second law of thermodynamics because the organisms are islands of order in a rising sea of entropy.

Sapp points out that the Law of Biogenesis (all life comes from life) seems to contradict spontaneous generation (life originates in the absence of life). The Law of Biogenesis by itself creates the logical problem of an infinite regress. If chickens come from eggs and eggs come from chickens, then it seems like chickens and eggs must exist infinitely in a backward direction. This would imply that chickens have been around longer than the universe! No matter how hard I try, I cannot picture the “pre-universe” with no time, no space... just chickens. The chicken had to start somewhere, but where? Presently, life, and only life, generates life, but simple organic molecules are believed to have formed in a primordial ooze about 3.5 million years ago. These organic molecules synthesized with others, and life began. Life cannot spontaneously generate now because simple organic molecules become food for more complex organisms. An experiment by Stanley Miller in the 1950s, involving the synthesis of organic compounds, provides evidence for this theory of life’s origin.

Sapp claims, “there is no evidence connecting different types of organisms to each other.” But biogeography, the fossil record, comparative anatomy, comparative embryology, and molecular biology provide overwhelming evidence for evolution. Volumes could be written on these topics alone. I will not attempt to cover them all in one newspaper column, but I will try to hit the highlights.

The fossil record is rich with transitory organisms. Paleontologists digging in Egypt recently discovered an extinct whale with hind limbs, linking whales to a terrestrial ancestor. Evolutionary theory predicts that whales were once terrestrial, but their large size made terrestrial locomotion difficult. Natural selection favored whales that spent more time in the water, and eventually the species became aquatic. Natural selection favored whales with shorter and shorter hind limbs, since larger ones impede swimming. Modern whales have mere skeletal remnants of hind limbs that do not extend from the body. Paleontologists continually turn up undiscovered links between modern and ancestral species. Simply because a link has not been discovered does not disprove its existence.

Sapp cites the lack of a link from dinosaurs to mammals as evidence against evolution. But there cannot be a link between dinosaurs and modern mammals for a good reason. Dinosaurs became extinct! No new life form can be derived from an extinct species. Dinosaurs and mammals had branched from a common ancestor before becoming dinosaurs and mammals.

In addition to fossils, molecular biology supports the theory of evolution. The genetic code is passed through DNA from parent to offspring, and DNA codes for proteins. Just as siblings have more similar DNA and proteins than unrelated individuals, closely related species also have similar DNA and proteins. Organisms that appear closely related through fossil and anatomical evidence also share more substantial portions of their DNA and proteins than more distantly related species. Gorillas and humans share all but one amino acid out of 146 in the hemoglobin chain.

Sapp mistakenly wrote, “to this date there has been no evidence of a helpful mutation.” Some mutations, however, are beneficial. Oxygen poisoned ancient life. Mutations enabled some organisms to use this poison in metabolism. The ability to benefit from oxygen certainly incurred an advantage. Because of natural selection, all advantageous mutations must not occur simultaneously. Due to differential reproductive success, it will not take long (in evolutionary time) for beneficial mutant traits to become “normal.”

Stephen J. Gould wrote that science is not a temple of monolithic knowledge to which bricks are added by successive discoveries. Science resembles a mosaic of ideas — sometimes incorrect ideas — that are subject to change in light of new discoveries. Evolutionary theory should not be dogmatically accepted as absolute truth, yet it works to explain a set of observations and makes accurate predictions. Evolution is a valid theory.