THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1995

DECISION DAVIDSON

Members of Class of ’99 visit campus for weekend

By SARAH TEACHWORTH
Staff writer

It’s springtime, and while we worry about our upcoming final exams, 1,051 high schoolers are breathing a sigh of relief.

That’s the number of students who have been invited to join next year’s freshman class. Choosing from the 3,059 applicants was especially difficult because, according to Admissions Counselor Sally Stone, “This is the strongest applicant pool Davidson has ever seen.”

Last weekend accepted students traveled to Davidson from all over the country to participate in Decision Davidson. Davidson students, faculty, and staff led discussion groups, tours, and informational sessions to help the high schoolers become better acquainted with the college.

The middle 50% of this year’s freshman class had SAT scores from 1180-1330; this year’s accepted students have a middle range of 1240-1390. The same middle percentage of accepted students this year are in the top two or three percent of their classes. Last year’s class was in the top five percent.

The accepted class continues the trend of approximately 60% coming from public and 40% from private schools. The number of international students has gone up; 24 foreign countries are represented. Those accepted are from 45 states, a smaller range than usual.

Despite the fact that Admissions accepted over a thousand promising students, they are hoping that 430 or less will actually enroll. Last year, more students enrolled than Admissions anticipated. Stone says that the “target number” was lowered this spring to “compensate for last year” and to “ensure that we retain a student body of about 1,600 students.”

Several factors came into play when the Admissions staff struggled to reach a decision about how many applicants to accept. Even though they were surprised by the number of students who enrolled last spring, they had to take into consideration that this year’s applicant pool is extraordinarily bright and will be receiving all kinds of tempting offers from other colleges and universities. Stone says she is confident that the hard work students have put into Scholars Weekend and Decision Davidson will help make acceptees’ decisions a bit easier.

If the target number is not reached, admissions counselors will go to the waiting list. In the last two years, they have not had to do so.

Only then will they consider how much room they have for the 30 or so transfer applicants.

Classes elect 1995-96 representatives

Students chosen as SGA senators and Honor Council members

By ANN HATFIELD
Staff writer

Amidst uncharacteristic confusion, Davidson students elected SGA senators and Honor Council representatives last week. Names inadvertently omitted from the ballot and close elections resulted in a redistribution of ballots and numerous runoffs. By Thursday night, however, all votes were tallied and the new positions filled.

Freshman dancing sensation Buster Burk waltzed his way back into SGA as the sophomore president. He was joined by new sophomore senators Wesley Hart and Matthew Hobbie.

Clair Freeman steered in a new guard of rising junior senators. Other junior senators include current independent senator Saad Gul and veteran Sara Beth Hamlin.

Allison Sabel was elected president of next year’s senior class. Sabel looks forward to the coming year and promises to “continue working for a much-needed new Student Union.”

The junior class also elected Rick Onkey and Ashley Tabb as senior senators.

The upcoming senior class also elected Bob Donnelly, Katherine Hash, Grace Hill, Shannon Lowrance, Laura Jefferson, and Chad Morgan to represent them on the Honor Council next year. These students will replace the graduating Honor Council members.

As a result of the very close race in the freshman and sophomore classes, a runoff was needed to determine Honor Council representatives. The sophomore class elected Jay Hinton, Jessica Stetler, and Deaver Traywick as upcoming junior representatives. The freshman class selected Katie Nelson, Nathan Raley, and Joy Sparks.

As dictated by the Honor Code, the council elected Philip Ewing as new chairperson and Chris Knox as Secretary.

Expressing excitement about the coming year, Ewing hopes to increase student and faculty understanding of the code and plans to address “the convoluted nature of procedure as written in the red book.”

Ewing and Knox replaced graduating seniors Arthur Gaston and Anna Gray Anderson.

RLO

from page 1

successfully with students.” He also notes that the person must have experience in the “more technical aspects of Residence Life.” The director must be able to handle lottery systems and foster good relations with the Physical Plant.

Meanwhile, Kurt Holmes has become the acting Director of Residence Life. He says, “Everyone is taking on more responsibilities to cover for Richard Terry’s departure.” Holmes says that the transition has been relatively easy.

Robert Knight watches as two students cast their votes.

Sybil Tate

Sculptured Nails

GET READY FOR YOUR FORMALS AT...

THE DUCHESS!

French Manicures
Pedicures * Tanning Booth

Located at The Chair Factory

WHEN FINALS ARE OVER, THE CRAMMING BEGINS.

Save time and energy. Bring everything down to Mail Boxes Etc. and let us pack it all up and ship it all home. And remember that when it comes to packing and shipping unusual items, no one is more knowledgeable than your Mooresville MBE.

10% OFF

20700 N. Main St., Cornelius, NC 28031
(704) 892-7030
Tuesday - Saturday

Port Village Shopping Center

Hwy 150 West of I-77 Davidson Students/ Faculty
Mooresville, NC 28115 on all services except
663-8833; Fax: 663-7193 postage, stamps, & money
Mon-Fri 9-6; Sat 10-2 fer. Current ID Required
UPS Authorized Shipping Outlet Expires 9-1-95