OPINIONS MONDAY, APRIL 3, 1995

Ike Bailey

How strong are you?

Davidson College creates a unique atmosphere for each of its students. We are all given two opportunities: we can explore
new cultures and beliefs through Davidson’s, albeit minimal, diversity, or we can ignore new challenges because Davidson has created a
comfort zone for its students. We don’t have to meet new people who we may feel uncomfortable around, and we
can use lack of time as an excuse. Yet in order to have a complete education, we must be willing
to step out of our comfort zones.

As a veteran Davidson College student, I recognize the need to focus on academics first because of the workload we
all must endure. Then, most of us have athletics, socials, semi-formals, and committee meetings to think about as well. So
why should we make time to experience different peoples and different cultures? We should because a complete education does not
come from books alone. Theory is good, but experience is better. Experiencing one another is extremely vital when trying to
make things comfortable. We have comfort zones because we have experienced things within our comfort zones. Wouldn’t it be nice
if every aspect of campus life was part of your comfort zone? Imagine what you could learn. You could experience
other countries while never leaving the United States. You could experience the North while never leaving the South. And if
you’re really dedicated, you could learn how to do the butterfly at a BSC party. If for no other reason,
having a diverse background sure looks great on your resumé.

The simple way to experience is listening with a caring and sensitive heart. The difficulty lies in doing and interacting
with people you don’t know. The great part is knowing you have learned and grown because of those difficult experiences.
It’s time we challenged ourselves. For the remainder of this semester, you should test your ability to grow. Start a
conversation with someone you’ve never met before. Write a controversial article for The Davidsonian. Approach that person you’ve been dying
to ask out. Experience a BSC party for the first time. Listen in on a FLAG meeting. Run through Chambers
naked! (maybe not that extreme). We have to find a way through this fear and apathy that keeps us comfortable.
I’ve always been taught that the shortest distance between two points is a straight line. So why are we trying
so hard to walk around our problems? When are we going to face up to the realities of our society?
Why not start today? Political correctness and conservatism only allow us to overlook real issues and simultaneously conjure up idealist
ones.

I know the difficulties and rewards of stepping out of a comfort zone. I came to Davidson from a high
school that was ninety-eight percent black. I have interacted with white people for the first time, and it was not
as bad as I thought it would be — even though it has not been perfect. I have gone out
with people of all nationalities and learned the beauty behind some of their beliefs. I have even left myself open
to major criticism by writing about a story from two opposite viewpoints. In other words, I have given myself the
opportunity to have a complete education. I now have the ability to see different points of view. Just remember: “If
it doesn’t kill you, it will only make you stronger.” If you need any help branching out, my assistance is
available until graduation. My number is 6827, and I live in Flowe 103. If you truly want to learn, experience
is the best teacher.

Matthew Eirich

Campaign form and reform

SGA candidates are only allowed to spend $15 dollars on their campaigns. To some this is a reasonable amount; for
others like my friend it is about $5 too much. “You can make 100 fliers for $5,” he complained, “that’s
more than enough.” He immediately amended himself, however: “Oh well, I guess they have to spend another $5 on tape.
But that’s the absolute ceiling.” I reminded him that the other $5 probably went toward spray paint to create the
campaign rags that flutter outside the dorms. But he got me thinking, are our campaign regulations perfect? Certainly not. They
do not address at least four areas of campaigning which have come to light during this last week of political
activity.

1) NO e-mail. Mass mailings seeking political support not only turn off voters, it gives people false hope.

2) One campaign slogan. Multiple campaign slogans only becloud and muddy the political waters.

3) One celebrity endorsement. Candidates ought to spend as much time, if notHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the
original meaning and punctuation:

---

more, soliciting the support of the students as the rich and famous.

4) One theme song. Just like campaign slogans, more than one theme song becomes confusing.

Eric Sapp

Spitting on our soldier’s graves

With the 50th anniversary of many famous events in World War II, a great deal of controversy has risen. In
our age of political correctness and victimization philosophies, many people have condemned the U.S. for some of its actions in
the war. There has also been a large push in the U.S. when it commemorates those who fought and died
to save the world to keep from offending any of the countries which started the war.

I have always been interested in WWII and have read many books on it (especially the Pacific conflict) by both
Japanese and American authors. I have a great respect for the Japanese and do not want anyone to consider my
position xenophobic. There are many traits of Japanese culture which I wish were present in American society. The Japanese people
and culture are not bad, but the government which led and represented them during WWII was.

I have thought about writing this article for a while, but I read an article in the paper this morning
which has convinced me of its necessity. When the President and top officials remember and commemorate the end of the
war this summer, they will not refer to that famous, and to many sacred, day when the Japanese surrendered as
“V-J Day” (Victory over Japan Day). Instead, it will be dubbed the “End of the War Day.” Why this change
after 50 years? Because we are afraid of offending the Japanese.

Did people forget what happened? Japan started the war by bombing Pearl Harbor on a Sunday morning when our boys
were in church or asleep. At that time, we were not even at war with Japan. Do people forget the
Bataan Death March? Do people forget the thousands and thousands of American men who died to stop Japan from taking
over the Pacific and Eastern Asia? By changing the name of V-J Day in order to keep from upsetting the
Japanese, our government is spitting on the graves of Americans who died defending our nation.

The other big conflict and classic P.C. whining ground is the dropping of atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. People
now call this the “second Holocaust of the war” and “America’s greatest mistake.” The “in” thing is to show pictures
of children who were burned by radioactive fallout and talk about all of the Japanese people killed by the bomb.
Japan is even asking for an American apology for this “atrocity.”

I will grant that pictures of ground zero and of the people affected by the bombs are horrifying and, as
opponents of the decision point out, “resemble what hell might look like.” But war is hell. If the Japanese did
not want these things to happen, they should not have started the war. The people who show the pictures of
the bombing always seem to omit certain other pictures from their lists of the consequences of dropping the bomb. They
seem to forget to put in the picture of a Japanese officer running his sword through a Chinese baby as
its mother watched. They leave out the picture of Japanese soldiers beheading the men in villages which opposed them as
their wives watched. They forget to mention the thousands of Chinese women who were raped by Japanese soldiers. They don’t
show the pictures of the Japanese torturing and executing American prisoners of war. And they never show the crying American
mother who is just about to tell her children that Daddy will never come home.

Those were the images that Truman and our generals saw. Those were the scenes they wanted to stop when they
dropped the bomb. There is dispute over whether we would have lost 600,000 or 400,000 or possibly even only 200,000
men had we invaded Japan. That doesn’t matter. Even the smallest numbers, which greatly underestimate the defenses and mentality of
the Japanese, would justify the bomb. Our government’s responsibility was to return as many of its troops to their families
as quickly as possible. If that meant killing some of the enemy (who started the war) in the process, then
that was an unfortunate consequence.

What we did in WWII was necessary to save the world from expansionist powers and to save American lives. We
should be proud of our forces. In the same way that the Holocaust and Nazi Germany should always be remembered,
so too should the Imperial Japan of WWII. We owe it to posterity to remember. But most of all, we
owe it to the brave young men who died defending democracy and our country.
