16

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Upset

from page 14

and sliced through the Wildcat half-court defense, stretching their lead to a 12-point margin.

Despite the growing lead, the Wildcats were able to shut down King throughout the second half, limiting his production to
five points on five free throws. Davidson needed someone to step up and spark a comeback. That inspiration came from
sophomore Narcisse Ewodo who scored 10 of 14 points in a Wildcat run that tied up the game.

Davidson appeared in control and headed for another comeback victory when they took the lead for the first time with
5:42 remaining. They would stretch the lead to 66-62 with just over a minute left, when Williams put back a
missed shot to protect the lead.

Just when it seemed the game might be leading to victory, the always deadly McCollum found his rhythm and ruined
the Wildcat victory party.

McCollum hit a three-pointer to bring the Catamounts within one point at 66-65 with 47 seconds left. Freshman guard Ray
Minlend answered for the Wildcats with a baseline jumper to extend the lead to 68-65 and set the stage for
the final seconds.

Davidson would have their chances to ice the game on the free throw line but were unable to capitalize. Western
cut the margin to 68-66 behind a free throw and continued to foul. Minlend would miss the front end of
a one-and-one with 40 seconds to give the Catamounts a chance to win.

The loss gave Davidson their first back-to-back losses during the regular season in two years. Senior George Spain led the
Wildcats with 16 points on 8-of-10 shooting. Spain leads the conference and ranks fifth in the nation for field goal
percentage with an impressive 66%.

A win would have put the Wildcats back in first place of the Northern Division, but they still remain one
game behind ETSU.

Now, Davidson faces its most important game of the season tomorrow when they face UT-Chattanooga. The game features a rematch
of last year’s conference championship in which the Moccasins prevailed 64-63.

The game is one of the more important ones so far this season for the Wildcats, as they struggle to
remain above .500 in the conference and regain their mental edge.

The squad will be searching for fan support, which has been sporadic this season and could be the deciding factor,
especially with a regional cable telecast.

Write for Sports. Call Matt. -2148.

Sicko-psycho halftime.

SPORTS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1995

Rob Kosicki

Ultimate frisbee cancelled

By JONATHAN WHITCOMB

Staff writer

Saturday, snow that never really appeared here at Davidson was enough to postpone an ultimate frisbee tournament.

Davidson was to have hosted a large regional tournament including such teams as Clemson and UNC-Asheville.

But weather was king on this Saturday afternoon as the UNC-Asheville team told Jeffrey Cromartie, the head of the Davidson
team, that it would not be able to make the trip because of snow in Asheville.

After hearing that, Clemson also backed out, and the tournament was not to be, at least not this weekend.

Cromartie was optimistic about rescheduling the tournament sometime soon, perhaps in about a month.

Men’s tennis defeated

By SCOTT TONIDANDEL
Staff writer

On Sunday, in an all-day affair, the Davidson men’s tennis team opened up its spring season with a tough loss
to South Carolina. The Gamecocks, ranked 7th in the country, were too much for the Wildcats to handle.

With four freshmen on the squad, the Wildcats were hoping that the fall had provided them with enough experience to
pull off the upset. Unfortunately, the team is hampered by some injuries, most notably one that forced senior co-captain Dan
Grinnan to sit out all day.

South Carolina jumped out to an early 1-0 lead by sweeping all three of the doubles matches, pinning Davidson’s hopes
on the singles matches. But the Gamecocks were too powerful, and they took five of the six singles matches for
the final score of 6-1.

There were some bright spots for the Wildcats. Freshman Ted Kaplin showed some maturity by pulling out a tough three-setter
for Davidson’s lone victory. Several other matches were very close and likely would have resulted in wins against lesser opponents.
If the team plays for the rest of the season as it did Sunday, the remainder of the spring should
be bright.

The Davidson sailing team will open its spring schedule this weekend with a multi-team regatta on Lake Norman.

Among the teams scheduled to compete in the Davidson Spring Open are Michigan, Duke, UNC-Wilmington, N.C. State and Savannah College
of Art & Design.

Racing will take place all day Saturday and most of the day Sunday.

IT’LL BE CATS VS. DOGS

Reservations Necessary:

Limited Seating
Deposit Required

For more information or reservations, call Jeanette at 2378
