SPORTS

16 : THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1995

Football Stats | Rugby wins at SW Virginia

Sewanee 0 14 0 0 - 14
Davidson 6 0 14 7 - 27

D—Perri 7 pass from Dugan (Mileham kick)
S—Caputo 57 pass from Stroup (Cole kick)
S—Stroup 2 run (Cole kick)
D—Dugan 4 run (Mileham kick)
D—Dugan 23 run (Mileham kick)

Att.—1,274 (at Davidson)

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS

RUSHING: Sewanee: Underwood 15-22, Stroup 6-(-10); Davidson: Blake 13-57, Dugan 11-44, Warrick 4-24, Jonas 6-15, Kern 7-6, Moll 3-3, Hagerman 1-0, Ting 1-3.

PASSING: Sewanee: Stroup 19-39-5-262; Davidson: Dugan 17-25-2-183.

RECEIVING: Sewanee: Springs 7-84, Caputo 5-103, Barrow 3-20, Green 2-28, Underwood 1-16, Phifer 1-11; Davidson: Harrington 5-56, Roberts 4-47, Perri 3-24, Jonas 2-30, Blake 1-13, Warrick 1-8, Cowles 1-5.

Practice might make perfection, but sheer determination and enthusiasm can usually help.

RUGBY

Such was the case for Davidson’s rugby team, which after just two weeks of practice took on Southwest Virginia Community College Saturday.

With teamwork, patience and tenacity, the Wildcats pulled out a narrow 8-7 win.

Sophomore Pete Smoltz, taking advantage of a series of perfect passes from his fellow backs, scored the only try for the Wildcats shortly before the half. The try made the score 7-5 and gave Davidson the momentum going into the final 40 minutes.

For both teams, the second half highlighted superb defense, precision rucking and good support — especially from the forwards. The second half remained scoreless until sophomore Hank Ackerman converted a three-point penalty kick for the winning score.

Several freshmen, some of whom just started playing rugby 10 days ago, were instrumental in the win. Roger Mills, Jonathan Sipling and Paul Dryden played forceful rugby in the scrum.

Free Checking

Set the account: Based on the Complicated Principle of Student Time Management,

Banking

The Wachovia College Account.

If you’ve got better things to do than worry about banking, the Wachovia College Account was designed with you in mind.

We make it easy, with free checking and a Banking Card with Visa Check, for free transactions at all Wachovia ATMs. Your card is also accepted everywhere they take Visa for payment directly from your checking account. Plus, you can apply for special college overdraft protection, credit card and savings accounts. It’s easy as pie. Because, after all, there’s more to life than banking.

No Hassles. No Kidding. Oh Yeah. Free Checking.

Wachovia Bank is a member FDIC. Accounts subject to approval.

and passed like old pros while playing in the backfield. Their effort was important in giving the Wildcats field position and subsequent scoring chances.

Said captain Bob Yarborough, “It is great to win on the road, especially for a team that is just coming together. Our new players are key assets, and they showed just how good they are on Saturday. We will continue to practice hard and make ourselves the best rugby team in North Carolina.”

The Wildcats will face a stern test of that when they travel to Appalachian State Saturday. The team’s first home game is Sept. 23 against arch-rival UNCC.

Golf team returns to the links

By Mike GUGGENHEIMER
Sports Writer

With all of its leaders from last year returning, the golf team looks ready to move out of the basement of the Southern Conference.

GOLF

Even though the conference competition takes place in the spring, the non-traditional fall season will be good preparation for the young Davidson squad.

Key juniors Jason Carlock and Daniel Tedrick are abroad for the semester.

“We'll miss them, but they’ll be back,” said third-year coach Joe Mark.

Carlock’s and Tedrick’s absence will leave sophomores Jason Lina and Andy McDaniel to lead the team. Mark will also look to senior co-captains Bob Bailey and Aubrey Proud to contribute this fall.

Mark also said he “hopes to get help from his freshmen.” A good freshman class and young stars has Mark optimistic about the program’s future.

In a conference perennially strong in golf, Mark says “their goal is to move up in the conference standings.”

Despite the Wildcats' limited success in the Southern Conference in recent years, Mark said he is “very excited about the team’s progress.”

The squad’s first tournament this fall comes Oct. 1 at the Davis Memorial in Blues Creek.