_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1995

Watson Fellowship Announcement

The information session for the Watson Fellowship program will be held on Thursday, September 7, at 5 p.m. in Chambers Room 212.

The Thomas J. Watson Fellowship is one of Davidson's most prestigious and exciting opportunities. We are one of 50 institutions selected to participate.

A Watson Fellow is provided the opportunity for a focused and disciplined journey abroad — of their own choosing — for an entire year. With a $16,000 grant from the Thomas J. Watson Foundation, the Fellows have the means and time to explore with thoroughness a particular interest, test their aspirations and abilities, view their lives and American society in greater perspective, and develop a more informed sense of international concern.

The successful candidate has demonstrated integrity, strong ethical character, intelligence, the capacity for vision and leadership, and potential for humane and effective participation in the world community.

The information session will provide an overview of the program, application and selection processes, and the opportunity to hear from former Watson Fellow participants.

Freshmen dig and scrape during orientation

By EUGENIA LEATH & CHAD WELLMAN
Staff Writers

On Saturday, August 26 amidst the rain and mud, the class of 1999 joined together to dig ditches, make peanut butter and jelly sandwiches, scrape paint from an old pool, and lug furniture around the Davidson campus. All of these philanthropic efforts were a new addition to the Davidson freshman orientation program. This year Davidson introduced a new aspect to the freshman orientation consisting of each freshman giving three hours of his or her time to a community service project. Hall counselors were on site leading and working with their assigned groups.

Groups landscaped at a Senior Citizen Center, made food for the Charlotte Homeless Shelter, sorted trash for recycling in Davidson, and constructed beds for Davidson students.

This new service aspect of the freshman orientation was designed to unite the new class and reaffirm Davidson’s commitment to the community through service.

But what did the freshmen think about these service projects and their lofty aims? Many freshmen commented on the lack of organization and excessive length of some of the projects.

One eager group wandered in search of a field only to discover that their efforts were fruitless because the field had already been cleaned. Frustrated from dragging disassembled beds across campus in the rain, another group saw no end to their labors. After scraping paint from the bottom of a pool on his hands and knees for three hours, Brad Stroble said, “That was hard as hell!”

However, despite the taxing work, inclement weather, and a few organizational flaws, most freshmen seemed to benefit from the experience.

From the service projects, many freshmen gained a new perspective on how vital community service will be to them in the next four years. After completing his service project, Josh Glazer said, “It was fun. I enjoyed the project. It made me want to sign up for more volunteer work.”

Dan Motz commented that sometimes students at Davidson are “caught up in [their] own culture and can’t see the other side of Davidson because Davidson College is so sheltered.”

These projects enabled students to encounter everyday problems that are right across the street. The opportunity to interact with other members of the Davidson community excited many students, and gave them satisfaction in seeing their efforts make an immediate difference in the lives of others.

The Davidsonian wants you to write for News, Opinions, Arts & Living, Sports, whatever — or take pictures, draw cartoons ... the options are limitless.