THE DAVIDSONIAN

Track triumphs at tourney

By Mary-Elise BRUMFIELD
Sports writer

The men’s and women’s indoor track teams came back from the Southern Conference championships at East Tennessee State this weekend
with finishes of eighth and seventh places, respectively.

Sophomore Venessa Sims placed fifth in the high jump for the women’s team, and freshman Josh Cookson took seventh, overall,
for the men’s 5000-meter run.

Appalachian State ran away with the men’s title, while the host Buccaneers nabbed the women’s crown.

Davidson’s men’s team, coached by Gary Andrew, is led by senior captains Erik McMichael and Joe Beach, who are both
distance runners.

Other team members include sophomore distance runner Dave Foss, hurdler Ivar Kiigemagi, and Cookson.

Says Andrew, “We had a lot of good performances on the men’s team [this weekend], and I’m looking forward to
improving during the outdoor season.”

The women’s squad is led by junior captain Marie Grisez, also a distance runner, and is coached by Beth Manson.
The rest of the team includes freshman distance runner Jessica Roy, hurdler Jaime Moore, sophomore distance runners Stephanie Moses and
Erin Roach, sophomore jumper and sprinter Lara Burkholder, senior distance runner Carolyn Meadows, and Sims.

Both the men’s and women’s teams practice six days a week, and Manson agrees with Andrew that the hard work
is paying off.

In regards to last weekend’s results, Manson says, “The teams ran really well... We had a lot of personal records...
The teams are small, but everyone is doing a good job and running hard.”

Moses is also very enthusiastic about the team’s overall performances. She says, “We have a wonderful team captain who keeps
us all in line, and everyone is working really hard.”

B-ball

from page 13

over UNCC, East Tennessee State on the road, a shellacking of Marshall at home, and The Citadel game.

The lower points, however, have included a 24-point defeat at the hands of UNCC and losses to Furman, Georgia Southern,
and VMI.

“Obviously if I had my finger on the answer, I would have pulled that lever a long time ago,” coach
Bob McKillop said. “The sands of time are such that this will serve as dramatic a wake-up call as we
could have.”

Coaches and players have talked a lot this season about confidence and about reaching just the right level of it
to find success. Obviously, that will be a huge factor going into the tournament.

With it, the Wildcats could easily run through the three games and lock up the automatic berth in the NCAA
tournament that comes with winning the championship. Without that confidence, though, the Wildcats' stay could easily be much shorter.

After Saturday’s tough loss, the Wildcats will try to avenge the earlier loss to the Paladins and create that confidence
and momentum to carry into the weekend.

“If you look at our season,” McKillop said, “it’s just the subtle things that have differentiated us from last year.
When we lose, it’s just a little thing here, a little thing there that are making the difference.”

Last year, of course, the Wildcats won 12 of their last 13 regular season games, swept into the tournament final,
and came within one point of reaching the NCAAs. They then received an NIT bid, before losing to West Virginia.

This season, they’ve stumbled and staggered toward the end of the year, with the big January win over Marshall followed
by three straight losses, then an exciting last-second win against Appalachian State. A week later, it was the big win
over The Citadel coming just before losses to VMI and Marshall. “We’ve been just a play or two away all
season,” McKillop said. “We are that close. We’ve had some good spurts where we looked like our old selves... These
are mature guys. I expect them to respond with confidence.”

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1995 15

On a cold afternoon, a track star practices hurdling. Bob Kosicki

©1994 HARLEM GLOBETROTTERS INTERNATIONAL, INC. A DIVISION OF MJA, INC.

Everyone Can Be a Star

Sunday, March 19 ~ 3 pm

LJVM COLISEUM

Winston-Salem

$10 • $12.50 • VIP • Magic Circle

Seats available at the Coliseum Box Office & Ticketmaster Centers. To charge: 910-722-6400, for additional information: 910-725-5635. $2 Off Youth
and Senior Citizens.
