THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1995

Week in Washington

House passes Medicare bill

By David Santschi
Washington Week Correspondent

The House last Thursday approved a sweeping overhaul of Medicare, the federal program that has financed health care for the elderly since 1965. Approved by a vote of 231 to 201, the bill cuts overall Medicare spending by $270 billion over the next seven years by imposing spending limits and encouraging patients to consider managed-care plans and medical savings accounts. The vote was highly partisan, with only four Democrats joining with all but six Republicans to support the bill. President Clinton said the bill would “eviscerate the health system” and vowed to veto the measure, which is part of a larger budget reconciliation bill.

Greeted with ovations on the House floor, Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-GA) praised Republicans for their “guts” and said that the bill was “a solution to preserve and protect Medicare.” The bill received no public hearings and little debate. The day was filled with partisan rancor, and both parties repeated a few carefully selected themes. Rep. Pat Williams (D-MT), like many of her Democratic colleagues, accused Republicans of “gutting Medicare,” and Rep. John Dingell (D-MI) claimed the bill was used “to finance tax cuts for the rich.” Republicans like Rep. Dave Camp (R-MI) defended the overhaul, saying that it would “preserve, protect, and strengthen Medicare.” The debate, which Republicans limited to a mere three hours, was a disconnected string of clichés and political attacks rather than real dialogue.

The savings in the bill would mainly be used to pay for a $245 billion dollar tax reduction that Republicans have promised. While the bill does prevent Medicare from going insolvent by limiting health care spending, the cuts reach far beyond this goal to fund a $500 tax credit for children under 18 and student loan interest. A Democratic alternative that would have cut $90 billion over seven years without any tax relief failed 283-149.

The bill would reform Medicare in two ways. First, it mandates reductions in spending and sets definite limits on Medicare growth. Seventy percent of savings would come from limiting the growth of federal payments to health-care providers. From 1995 to 2002, average spending for each recipient would be limited to a 6.2 percent yearly increase. Also, the bill raises monthly Medicare Part B premiums, which include physician services, to $87.60 by 2002, from the current $46.10.

Second, the bill changes the way Medicare funds its recipients. The traditional fee-for-service plan would still be offered. However, the elderly could choose MedicarePlus and get care through health maintenance organizations or new networks that would be set up directly by doctors and hospitals. The government, within strict spending limits, would reimburse the HMO for each Medicare patient it covered. Finally, recipients could choose tax-free medical savings accounts. The government would contribute a standard Medicare amount to each account. Part could be used to purchase low-cost, high-deductible insurance to pay for catastrophic illnesses, and the rest would pay for uncovered medical expenses.

Introducing these choices has drawbacks, particularly for low-income people. Critics contend that the bill would force the closing of inner-city and rural hospitals, which depend on federal Medicare subsidies that the bill reduces. Some fear that “fail-safe” spending controls used to automatically cut payments to doctors for Medicare services would prevent benefits from keeping pace with inflation. Doctors might regard Medicare patients as unprofitable and refuse to treat them. Medicare’s decreasing reimbursements might also encourage HMOs to actively seek only healthy, younger people who need less care.

The Senate is expected to consider a similar overhaul bill this week, which will be reconciled with the House version in conference. With about 40 million elderly Americans currently receiving Medicare, the overhaul will have staggering medical and political consequences.

Dean Rusk Speaker provokes heated discussion

By Will Bradshaw
Staff Writer

Mr. Haywood Rankin, a U.S. diplomat specializing in the Near East, spoke on the nature of the Israeli/Palestinian conflict Monday night in the Carolina Inn. His talk lasted about an hour, moving from his background as a diplomat and information on the Arab and Israeli worlds, into a discussion of the conflict itself and the recent attempts at peace. Rankin stressed the idea that Israel is seen as a western nation by the typical American, giving Israel a sympathetic position in the minds of the public, and the limits of American diplomatic power.

After he was done with his lecture he opened the floor for questions, and Yanti Ardie, a sophomore, asked through subdued anger what justification the U.S. government had to intervene in the conflict at all. Rankin responded by saying, “The American people have strong feelings about Israel. We feel it to be a Western state. We feel a bond with them (the Jews in Israel) and feel sympathy for them after the Holocaust. This is a kind of understanding we do not feel for the Arab world. [As diplomats and government officials] we do what the American people want.”

The question and answer session branched into other issues from this point, but Ardie was not entirely satisfied with that response. She later explained her position more fully. “I’ve been extremely shocked at how totally ignorant people are about the Palestinian side of the issue. They don’t realize that the Zionists took over and threw all the people out, destroying villages and killing men, women, and children. You don’t hear about that. You hear about Palestinians blowing people up. This is the root of a media-backed conspiracy. People don’t understand the PLO or Arafat,” she said. “The American layperson has no concept of a Palestinian. People associate Palestinianswith Islamic fundamentalists, but one-quarter of Palestine is Christian. There are also many Palestinian Jews that are shunned by the Israeli Jews, including a man who was recently released from prison (as a part of the peace agreements),” Ardie stated. “I am obviously pro-Palestine, but to truly understand the situation we need someone with a bipartisan viewpoint. A person who can express sympathy for the Jewish plight and also present the Palestinian plight as it truly has been. Then we would understand why the conflict has been so violent,” Ardie said.

Rankin had spoken to this indirectly during his lecture when he stressed the extent to which the Palestinians feel bound to the land. “America has lost the sense of the land, but many other cultures and peoples feel bound to their land. The Palestinians feel they have been moved off their land by an alien people,” he said.

The conflict hinges on this belief held by both Israelis and Palestinians that the disputed land, Israel, belongs wholly to their own people and not the other. Rankin summed the conflict up in his lecture by saying: “Both sides have an absolute trust in the rightness of their position.”

But now, after many years of war and tension, there seems to be a chance at peace in Israel. A recent bill has been passed by the Israeli legislature by a vote of 61-59, giving Palestinians within Israel a taste of autonomy, said Rankin.

Sources include: October 19 NOTES

A checkbook conspiracy: Why Vince Foster lives

On Sunday night Mike Wallace of 60 Minutes showed once again that, yes, Vincent Foster did commit suicide in Fort Marcy Park, Virginia, in July 1993. As news goes, this story is only slightly more shocking than dog-bites-man. Among the others who have judged the Foster death a suicide are two Congressional committees