SPORTS 14 MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 1995

Soccer, Slagle expects winning season
By Matt Pitzer
Sports Editor

Men’s soccer coach Charlie Slagle has one goal in mind heading into this fall’s season: 15 wins.

MEN’S SOCCER

He thinks that is the number of victories the Wildcats need to secure an at-large bid in the NCAA tournament.

“I’m very confident,” Slagle says. “I’m not always this way ... I think this team can handle the pressure of
seeing that number in print. And, frankly, I’d be very disappointed in them if they didn’t get it.”

If any team is going to conjure up memories of Davidson’s magnificent 1992 run to the NCAA final four (in
both style and results), this could be the one. With just a couple of spots to fill from last year’s
squad that lost in the Southern Conference semifinals to Appalachian State, the Wildcats should be more than ready to take
their shots at the NCAA tournament this season.

“The elements are all there,” Slagle says. “We’ve got two guys who can score up front, one of the best
goalkeepers in the country and very good players in between.”

That goalie, of course, is Alex Deegan, who returns this season after missing much of the last two seasons to
injuries. Deegan is the one whose stellar play typified that ‘92 postseason run. This year the club selected him as
the only captain.

“I’d say he’s playing as well as he’s ever played,” Slagle says. “He’s getting to a lot of balls and
making few mistakes. He’s just as quick as before and a lot smarter.”

The two big-time scorers are Robert Clarke and Phil Julien. Now a junior, Clarke has become more and more of
an offensive threat over the last two years. Sophomore Julien, meanwhile, has been dazzling coaches since the spring with his
improved skills and increased strength.

Slagle has slightly juggled the starting lineup for this season, moving one defenseman up to the midfield to add a
little bit more offensive power. The new midfield slot will be filled by Coley Dominiak, a converted defenseman himself.

Fewer slots in the backfield mean more competition for playing time. Stephen Thomas returns this year after missing last season
with a torn ACL. He joins Nick Troiano, Chad Lagerwey, and Isaac Stewart as the main players fighting for spots.
Collectively, the backfield needs to fill a void left by the graduation of Tommy Suter, an all-Southern Conference pick and
the defensive anchor.

In the midfield, a number of players have solid shots at playing integral roles, including Fernando Campos, Keith Kleeman, Ryan
Northington, Ian O’Brien, and John Eckman.

With the team so dominated by juniors and seniors, freshmen likely will not be asked to play too heavy a
role. Among the newcomers that could add to the mix, however, are Jeff Harrell, a midfielder from Ormond Beach, Fla.,
and Patrick Cahan from St. Louis.

“We have the depth this season,” Slagle says, “where, if somebody goes down with little nicks and cuts and bruises,
we can replace them without a problem.”

The Wildcats will have plenty of chances to show off to the NCAA, playing a tough schedule that begins Saturday
with Stanford at the Wake Forest Invitational. Davidson opens conference play Sept. 13 at The Citadel, but doesn’t play at
home until September 27 against Duke.

“These kids left in the spring playing very well,” Slagle says. “And they’ve come back ready to play. They’ve done
nothing yet to slow my enthusiasm ... They have to play as a team. They have to play together with
a concerted team effort and so far in practice, I haven’t seen anything that would make me think they won’t.”

MEN’S SOCCER

Nov. 3-5 Southern Conf. Tournament (at Davidson)
Sept. 2 Stanford 2 p.m.
Sept. 4 Coll. of Chas. 2 p.m.
Sept. 7 at Radford 7 p.m.
Sept. 9 Hartwick 4 p.m.
Sept. 10 Georgetown 1 or Oneonta St. 1 3 p.m.
Sept. 13 at The Citadel 7 p.m.Sept. 16 at VMI 11:00
Sept. 19 at Ga. Southern 4 p.m.
Sept. 22 Portland 5 p.m.
Sept. 24 St. Mary’s Noon
Sept. 27 Duke 6:15
Sept. 29 Furman 7 p.m.
Oct. 1 UNCC 3 p.m.
Oct. 11 N. Carolina 7 p.m.
Oct. 14 St. Louis Noon
Oct. 15 New Hampshire Noon
Oct. 17 App. St. 6:15
Oct. 21 Wake Forest 2 p.m.
Oct. 25 at South Carolina 7 p.m.
Oct. 29 Marshall 2 p.m.

WOMEN’S SOCCER
Sept. 3 at UNC-Ashe. 2 p.m.
Sept. 6 at UNCC 7 p.m.
Sept. 9 Wofford 4 p.m.
Sept. 10 Ga. Southern 2 p.m.
Sept. 13 Georgia 4 p.m.
Sept. 15 UNC-G 7 p.m.
Sept. 17 Florida 2 p.m.
Sept. 23 at Chas. S’thrn 4 p.m.
Sept. 27 at App. St. 7:30
Oct. 1 at Va. Tech 1 p.m.
Oct. 4 N.C. State 6 p.m.
Oct. 7 at C. Florida 4 p.m.
Oct. 8 at Stetson 2:30
Oct. 11 Furman 6:30
Oct. 15 Clemson 2 p.m.
Oct. 18 at Wake Forest 4 p.m.
Oct. 21 at Ga. Southern 1 p.m.
Oct. 24 at Furman 4 p.m.
Oct. 27 App. St. 4 p.m.
Nov. 4-5 Southern Conf. Tournament (at Davidson)

Interested in a particular sports team? Write about it for The Davidsonian. Call Matt - 2148.

Frosh take soccer
By Matt Pitzer
Sports Editor

The secret to the women’s soccer team’s success may be held by freshmen this season.

WOMEN’S SOCCER

With only 15 players on the roster and just nine returning from last season, the six new freshmen will be
counted on to play crucial roles all season long. Most of the key positions will again be filled by some
of the top players in the Southern Conference, including last year’s conference player-of-the-year Claudia Lombard and conference tournament most valuable
player Shannon Lowrance.

“Everybody’s going to have to play a big role,” coach Kevin Hundley said. “Everybody, from the first game, will be
playing a lot of minutes... The freshmen are going to have to come in ready to go right away.”

With only about a week of practice under their belts, the coaching staff is still trying to figure out just
where to place the six. The group of freshmen includes: defender Katherine Cornelius from Mercer Island, Wash., back Natasha Vasavada
of Scotch Plains, N.J., midfielder Linda Rothemund from Columbia, Md., midfielder Erica Fenton from Metuchen, N.J., midfielder-forward Rhina Roberts of
Washington, D.C., and midfielder-forward Leila Giesenschlag from Asheville.

In picking the Wildcats to win the conference again, Soccer America said that Liz Schaper’s six shutouts will be hard
to replace. Attempting to replace them, however, is Allie Noznesky, who has been working very hard since Spring to slip
into that role. Her work and improvement has Hundley confident.

“I’m certainly feeling a lot better now than I did at the end of last year when I thought about
who would be playing goal,” Hundley said. “Allie has certainly proven that she’s ready to go.”

Anchoring the defense in front of her is Lowrance, who simply dominated the conference tournament last season. One of the
key midfielders will be Melissa Moser, who, said Hundley, “is ready to take a bigger role.”

Up front, the most potent scoring combination in school history, Lombard and Heather Wineberg, will continue to attack opponents. With
Amy Kanoff, who scored nine goals as a freshman, the Wildcats have a solid chance to have three players score
more than 10 goals.

“I feel really good about our chances,” Hundley said. “I certainly think that we’ve got the best talent in the
conference again.”

In addition to the regular league schedule, the Wildcats will also face four teams in their first seven games that
will likely be ranked in the top 10 in the region. With a stretch with only one game in 10
days after that, the Wildcats will certainly have a chance to measure themselves and see just how well they're doing.

“We certainly want to remain dominant,” Hundley said. “Everybody will look at us as the team to beat. If we
can work hard and stay free of injuries, I would expect that we will be.”
