__THE DAVIDSONIAN__

Student one-act season closes with two thought-provoking performances

By Emily Simmons

This week in the Black Box, it was the finale for another round of student-produced and directed plays. Performed on Wednesday and Thursday nights were the two one-acts: Icarus’s Mother by Sam Shepard and An American Dream by Edward Albee. Icarus’s Mother was directed by Gabriela Marin, and An American Dream was directed by Jennifer Needle.

Icarus’s Mother revolved around five people having a Fourth of July picnic at the beach. The action centered around a skywriter that the characters watched, a few walks on the beach, and some fireworks, but the real heart of the play dealt with the individual personalities of each character and how those personalities interacted. Each character embodied a specific personality, reminiscent of types you might recognize: the simpleton who just wants to have fun, the neurotic who never quite lets in on what everyone else is thinking, the romantic woman, and the happy superficial person who chases and basks in the skywriter’s plane. Each character dealt with their own issues in their own way. Phil gave Howard and Bill a lengthy and seemingly cathartic speech. Both Pat and Jill had strange reactions to the plane crash. They really did not seem to care that much. Perhaps they represented people who had been won over to the pro-war side and who did not care about the devastation of Vietnam and all it meant. Perhaps they just did not care and thought it was really neat to see a plane go down. At any rate, it was the Fourth of July in America: rah, rah, rah!

Icarus’s Mother was a highly articulate and well-performed play that each character was well-acted and had a clear personality. The American Dream was a satirical piece that dealt with the American family and consumerism. It was a biting critique of the American dream and how it has become a hollow pursuit of materialism and superficiality. The play represented what the dream used to be and what it has become. The vision of the play was clear and had been executed through the title by the note of superficiality.

Arts

By God, they had pride.

Monday, May 1, 1994- ‘Tis of 0.4 F | Willis; dy \ hil utp ti a ile = ar aeals ee ct died Be i sgh Bad. i ie ae 18 Bé ab EH § Lae ib staHeg, jist as He ae ie a itbie Hale rf eft a ny. ke sca st 3 OW Wis EVEH HHO ap- Ke Ate HicdH We che i i ni re fa ua a ai i nines Ear Hie884 ati ri = Frew from page OtHEt petversé fg ‘aalignaal “ BeHdviouh.” EXpaHdip oH the thee of A WeHcHy WoHaH Belli taiéd By Het HusbaHd: His veksioh Had Bt sly RAthstins, Bult Petiichio tai Hi dhe spoiled ahd UHappte- clative oF OtHets, aHd BOtH éVeHtil- ally BHH hye ech bthiet 16 tedlize that i otdet to Be loved by soitedHe, OHe Hilist be jovi atid vite Nelthet oHe is tedlly piven the tol Phoeeicd f tedcet of alldsit i‘ os: te d StbOHe WOH dattohp that et ae ieee nee Skagit i ae “ aes oe eerste are aise Ry Heat wha they said; ad they really séeHi ih fike with all the Hiahces tha He batt of a SHakespedteal play. THey wete able to cbilvey to the dildiéiice WHat the play ae Gib but bei Hinde bie by the lahpudge. ANSHBHIBE theéte is oHe Hight left to see Pebfotiihg Shikespedte’ § vetsion of The Tam- ing of the Shrew. Go see it. As ole Wo oftel Hesitates to seé Shakes- bei petted; t Hesitited iy- self becdlise oftet tHe ldigilage Briel i3 ‘ak. on bie iain t a ie Beet aid 8 Mad pe ihe play beforehatd: this Ope an if you are iHiterested i Becoiihg 4 peHHaHent Hetibet of aly Student Advisory Ceuiteils; call the cd-chalts By Wedhesday, May 3 {6 sigh Up OF ask qliestions: Bea patt OF the student voice — it’s a great EXpeHetice. Advisory Council t6 the Director of Residence Life: Sata Beth Hathlin (6253) ot David BeHick (6033) Advisory Council te the Director of Aukilioiy Services: fill Dyét (6388) oF Bustet Bure (6133) Advisory Esiineil t8 the Director br Gaiipus Security: pelfolitahice cHaliges ail tat: Not oily colild f false WHat was B0- i OH; Blt t keally Felt f Was iH oid at the play ited’ to the pet- fortiers, WHicH i8 itipoHait, This ay dso Hhade He laliph, beciilse: sal it i8 A cottiedy. 1 atid | iHipressed that this pity __Liibial eta (6138) bk Maty Lalita Mabel (6347) _ New Age HAIR DESIGNERS __A full service salon for tet aiid woitiet re was able to ie i 80 filly; Uiidet- stood, ahd Up-to-date, THe Pet- fotttiie Shakes ae & Hass, hls to New Age and get the perfect cae lisa bi tan for the summer Nextils; Se with @ Stidedt 1:3;4 aah dnd Guldiell Manicires aise dvaitable School's Hinning vit, 80 Come th Right How; Davidsou stidents aiid factity feceive 10% offall Heldil iets with a schodl 1:D: +Pavidsen Stidehts receive $1: 60 Git Ser vibes we a like of Palit Mite it, Matrix, Lapis, HiFSBNthe ae lake SHOBB im | té Hi tet 8h i aN