OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1995

Jack Slosson

Playing for the love
Or is it paying for the love?

Now I know the going trend for Opinions articles lately has been to rip on Davidson, but I’m moving on.
It’s too cold out for golfing on Covington anymore, so it really does not matter what shape it’s in. No,
the cold is here and it’s time to sit inside on the couch and watch sports. Here is where my
troubles lie.

When I was a young lad, it used to be that Sundays were filled with the enjoyment of watching the
great sports heroes of the NFL or NBA. I looked up to these fantastic athletes with great admiration, dreaming of
one day becoming a Cleveland Brown or Philadelphia 76er. But now professional sports have fallen apart. Money rules and the
fans lose.

First of all, pro sports franchises have lost all attachment to their host cities. Being from Cleveland (and proud of
it), I’m mad as hell about the Browns moving to Baltimore. When I think of pro football fans at their
best, think of Cleveland and the “dog pound.” The people of Cleveland love the Browns, but because some greedy rich
guy needs to make an extra buck, the city is losing the Browns.

And Cleveland’s not the only city that is losing its teams because of greedy owners. Poor Houston is losing the
Astros and Oilers in the same year. It is becoming impossible for fans to follow the home team because the
home team only sticks around for a few years before moving on to another city. Am I supposed to be
a Baltimore Browns fan? I don’t like Baltimore, they stole my football team. I can’t root for them. I guess
my only choice is to let a little extra sun beat down on my neck and let out with, “Go
Panthers, Wahoo!”

It’s not only the owners that are being greedy. The players are just as guilty. We no longer have basketball
players in the NBA who play for the love of the game or a devotion to the team. Alonzo Mourning
is the perfect example. The city of Charlotte loved Zo. His ugly mug was painted in downtown as a form
of respect and gratitude towards the good he does as a player and member of the community. But he simply
cast aside any feelings of devotion towards Charlotte, the Hornets, and his teammates in order to make more money. Let’s
be realistic, when you're making eighty million don’t you think you could pass on a few extra million in order
to stay in a town and help an organization which has placed its future on your back. Zo was supposed
to be the future of the Hornets—now I think we should just paint over his face with a huge dollar
sign.

Well, that’s about it. Just had to vent a little frustration with the whole pro sports scene. I guess this
is just another reason to appreciate Davidson sports. So go out there and support the Wildcats because they play for
the love of the game.

Mary Wampler

The Importance of expression

I am writing this article in response to Dewey N. Ervin, Jr.’s letter to the editor last week. In his
letter, Mr. Ervin expressed his discontent with many of the articles in The Davidsonian, particularly in the Opinions section. While
I am genuinely sorry that he is offended by some of the “unnecessary expletives,” I feel he is promoting something
that contradicts the value of education.

Although I think the news and information articles of the paper should be journalistic and proper in both content and
form, I feel that the Opinions section should be reserved for just that, opinions. To write an opinion article for
the Davidsonian, a paper read by almost all students, faculty, and administrators, is difficult because of the possible scrutiny the
author could receive. When one chooses to publicly express their feelings about an issue, he or she is extremely vulnerable
to criticism, resentment, and stereotypes. But what kind of academic atmosphere would we be living in if we had to
always say the“Proper” thing or pretend to feel the way others feel? Isn’t a large part of college finding yourself
and understanding your feelings? If it is, then one needs to have a forum in which he or she is
allowed the freedom of expression without resorting to bombastic language in order not to offend anyone and sound more intelligent.
While I commend Mr. Ervin for expressing his own opinion on the subject, I also commend all of the writers
of opinion articles for expressing theirs.

Stan Boyd

Sunday Evening Ritual

Well, here I am again, 5:30 p.m., Sunday, a gun to my head. Advice for all you underclassmen: don’t live
with the editor of the Opinions section of The Davidsonian (the rest of this sentence has been edited). Either way,
I press on, rack my brain, and present to you the fragmented thoughts which sprinkle from my ears.

I saw Goldeneye on Saturday. Matinee is definitely the way to go. I just don’t understand why 007 doesn’t die
so they can stop hitting us over the head with the same movie-in-a-can. If you’ve ever seen a James Bond
movie then you know what Goldeneye is like. Save your money. Without Roger Moore or Sean Connery there is no
James Bond. You wanted them to get the girl, not this new guy. I don’t know—the movie was okay.

Eating Houses. Every girl I’ve talked to about the female organizations on Patterson Court is less than satisfied. The fault
of the eating houses lies in the lack of bonds which are formed. Fraternities go through a rigorous bond-forming period
called pledging. Eight weeks of rolling around, waking up early, studying together, fun with 20 (or 10) other guys that
go on to become some of your closest buds—not to mention the friendships which form between the freshmen (or sophomores)
and upperclassmen who show them the ropes. The women have no such time. In the outsider/male perspective, I see no
difference between an eating house and the Commons. Why don’t we divide Commons into three different sections and all the
girls can go there and eat (with an occasional dance or two)? My point is that as freshwomen, girls choose
where to be a member, and they base this choosing on where their friends are going, so no new bonds
are ever formed; the old bonds just get stronger until you’re a senior, sick of your friends, and have no
one else to play with. I may be wrong. Just a thought.

And what’s the story with these inspections of the senior apartments? I suppose they are sort of good because they
force us to clean at least once a year, but they are really annoying. It’s sort of like cutting off
the beer at midnight during court parties, yet another instance of Big Brother looking over our shoulders. Sometimes I think
they make these rules just to get under our skin. I don’t see how RLO can even find the time
to inspect all the apartments considering they can’t find the time to do any maintenance work on them. If you’ve
ever put in a work order you’ll understand. Promptness is certainly not their thing. My apartment failed because we had
a few pieces of wood lying on our porch. Not really a health hazard, but I guess they are a
bit unsightly. Actually, the only reason the wood still occupies half our porch is because we one day plan to
build an entertainment center. Of course, the one offered to us for free by a local couple wasn't good enough.
No, my roommate, construction man, felt building our own would be so much more satisfying. Unfortunately, we all lost the
zeal for woodwork about three minutes after we carted all the wood to our apartment. So there it stays. Last
night I came home to find a sapling sitting outside the front window. I guess the wood was getting lonely
and decided to multiply. Strange but true.

Sorry for another [expletive edited] article. If you’re bored, want to procrastinate, have a word processor you haven’t used in
a while, think you’re funny, or can type/write, please contact el Jéfe at 2148 so I don’t have to subject
you to another piece of junk like this. Thanks.
