THE DAVIDSONIAN

Blues with no feeling
Tinsley Ellis concert epitomizes blues flamboyance
By DAVE WILLIARD
Staff writer

This semester has brought two technically superior blues players to the Davidson campus. A couple of months ago Jimmy Thackery
passed through, and last Monday night Tinsley Ellis played a Live Monday set in the 900 Room that was perhaps
a quintessential example of blues flamboyance.

The weekend before Monday’s Union gig, Ellis’s band played some dates in Idaho as actor Bruce Willis’ backup band. Their
stint with Willis was a part of an extended tour in support of the band’s new album Storm Warning, their
sixth release with Alligator Records. In the last year, the band has played extensively in the United States, Europe, and
throughout Australia.

Ellis, who almost studied at Davidson a few years back, has been touring for several years. “Being able to support
myself doing this is a goal in and unto itself. It was either this or law school!” he said. “The
blues has never been this popular. It has filtered down from some of the famous stars who are doing blues,
like Clapton and Bonnie Raitt,” Ellis explains. While Chuck Berry and Willie Dixon are two of his main lyrical influences,
his musical style draws heavily from Clapton’s British blues and Stevie Ray Vaughan.

Although CD Review has called Ellis the “heir apparent to the blues-rock throne,” his sound is one that we have
heard many times before. He may be technically proficient on guitar, but he seems to me to lack some of
the blues’ raw emotion and honesty. During his Monday night performance, I felt like Ellis was quite out of touch
with the (albeit small) audience, and his detached physical stance seemed to confirm my reaction. He can do most anything
with the guitar, but I didn’t feel like he was really connected with his material. Several songs had abrupt mood
swings that elicited uncomfortable reactions from the crowd.

Certainly, flamboyance is impressive, but the flow of the song should come first. Unfortunately, Ellis tends to push his material
farther than it should go. If you are into guitar-virtuoso blues rock, then Ellis is a good artist to check
out. But if you want to hear blues for its honesty and sheer musical power, then I suggest you give
a listen to John Lee Hooker. Hooker can do more with one chord than Tinsley can do with six albums
and 12 whammy bars. Tinsley is good, but his bag of soloing tricks does not the real blues make.

KATHY BATI Dolores

ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1995

Guitarist Tinsley Ellis strums and sings the blues to a packed audience in the 900 Room. Rob Kosicki

Dolores Claiborne puts a new twist on the power of womanhood
By JOHN COPENHAVER
Arts & Living Editor

When I think Stephen King movie, I think of undead kindergartners and telepathic teenagers. It was this assumption that was
absolutely dashed last week when I saw Dolores Claiborne. This movie, based on King’s book by the same name, was
one of the most engrossing and emotionally moving movies I’ve seen in quite a while.

At the beginning of the movie, we find Dolores Claiborne, played by Kathy Bates, accused of the murder of her
long-time employer, Vera Donovan. Vera’s death brings Dolores’ daughter, performed by Jennifer Jason Leigh, back to the little New England
town of her childhood. As the story unfolds, Vera’s murder brings up a mystery from the past — the murder
of Dolores’ abusive husband.

Although the plot reveals itself in an unexpectedly original manner, it’s the grace and power of the acting that make
it worth seeing. Both Bates and Leigh bring so much vitality up to the dark, bleak surface of their characters’
lives that they sparkle with realism.

Colorful from page 10

its highs and lows, and how good both can be in a world of color. Colorisms dealt with these issues
sometimes humorously and sometimes seriously, but always in an engaging and entertaining way. In a scene about the personalities that
make up a box of crayons, each color had a different way of looking at the world based on its
color. The pink and yellow crayons were cheery, the red crayon was somewhat fiery, the black crayon seemed pretty depressed,
and the...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

White crayon was lonely because it never got picked. In a more serious skit, a young man paced at his
father’s grave, blaming his father for teaching him to hate based on skin color. This entire skit had a dark
feel to it and brought to light the literal issues of color that are a part of our world. Most
of the other skits were very humorous and ended on an “up” note, furthering the theme that although there are
lows in an imperfect world, those lows are balanced by highs. The play ended on a high note, as the
traveler revisited the perfect universe and received praise from its leaders for his colorful world. The leaders of the perfect
universe decided that a world full of color was more fun, and all of a sudden “All I Wanna Do
Is Have Some Fun” started playing. Everyone started dancing and inviting audience members to join in, although not many of
them danced. Although Colorisms may have gone a little far on the cheese factor with the song, the play was
highly entertaining and kept me entertained — I was either laughing hysterically or on the verge of tears the entire
time. It often seems that the purpose of theater is not to entertain but to perplex. This play did not
do that, and I do not think a play has to in order to be good. This play made me
think and made me laugh without being overly pretentious, and I admire it for that.

Bates makes Dolores’ beauty and strength shine through the years of guilt and quiet anger she has stowed up inside
herself. Her relationship to her daughter and her employer truly examines the nature of love. In the vicious society of
small-town New England, these women find the love between one another to be the strongest defense against a perverse world
of hatred and loneliness. Taylor Hackford’s direction makes interesting use of the camera movement and the atmospheric changes in order
to paint a picture that reflects the moods and personalities of the main characters. He also uses clever scene changes
when portraying Dolores’ flashbacks. He plays with the time and place in these transitions by having the present and the
past overlap as Dolores’ mind drifts back 18 years. In the climactic scene, the death of Dolores’ abusive husband, Hackford
represents the black beauty of a solar eclipse without overdoing the special effect.

See Dolores on page 12

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1. Lanky
5. Steep slope
9. Potpourri
14. Disappear slowly
15. Baking need
16. Kick
17. Wed on the run
18. Comic Jay
19. Columnist Landers
21. Serene
22. Commences
24. Bed canopies
26. Toothed wheels
27. Printer's measures
28. Certain entertainer
31. Bloodhound's clue
34. Lumps
35. In the past
37. Traverse
38. Pack
39. Pretty — picture
40. Form
41. Suppose
42. Treat in a way
44. Sheltered side
45. On the warpath
46. Refined
50. Accompany
52. Mild oath
53. Chicken — king
54. Bank deal
55. Eastern bigwig
57. Journey
58. Funny Johnson
59. Brutus e.g.
60. Worker and soldier
61. Lack
62. Locales
63. Got it!

DOWN
1. Go — for
2. By oneself
3. Jungle beasts
4. Fate
5. Old weapons
6. Jail rooms
7. Unit of matter
8. Capitol worker: abbr.
10. Teeth
11. Use hyperbole
12. Fasting period
13. Biblical name
21. Coin
23. Labels
25. Collapsible shelter
26. Silly one
28. Skiing milieu
29. Freudian terms
30. Uses oars
31. Swindle
32. Lawsuit
33. Kill
34. Box (support)
37. Prates
38. Beef fat
40. Wound cover
41. Man
43. Pressed
44. Hears
46. Legendary
47. Makes money
48. Select group
49. Fall from grace
50. Panache
51. Tender
52. Salesman's car
56. Swab
57. Mai — (drink)
