2. THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 1995

Car stolen from satellite parking; off-campus houses robbed

By Meg Wolff

A crime wave hit Davidson during finals and Christmas break. Two off-campus houses occupied by Davidson students were broken into
and a student’s car was stolen.

Sophomore John Spainhour, who left his car in satellite parking on the Friday of finals, returned to an empty space
on Monday. “I thought that I just forgot where I parked it,” says Spainhour, “but after looking for a while,
and then having the cops look for it, we concluded that it had been stolen.” Spainhour’s Jeep was recovered a
week later, deserted on a road. Apparently, the thieves broke the driver’s side window, ripped open the steering column, and
then used a screwdriver to start the car. The police fingerprinted the car and told Spainhour that the same weekend
his Jeep was stolen, five other Jeep Cherokees in the Charlotte area were also stolen, but they were found stripped
of equipment and parts. Spainhour feels lucky that he got his car back in one piece and says only: “I
don’t think I will be parking in satellite any more.”

Ryan Northington and Pete Boylan were notified during break that their house had been broken into, the thieves making off
with telephones, an answering machine, a discman, and some checks. Says Northington: “We feel lucky that they didn’t take more
- you could tell that the thief had looked through everything, but we think that he just didn’t have enough
time.” The police, Northington, and Boylan think that the thief is a man that had been around the house several
times, asking for money, hoping to wash cars, and telling stories. The break-in occurred about a week and a half
ago between 3:30 and 6:30 A.M., and was discovered by police that had been patrolling the area. To gain access,
the thief pried the deadbolt off of the back door. Police told Northington that the thief, who supposedly committed another
robbery the next day, is now in jail. Northington and Boylan’s landlord has since responded by installing a new metal
back door, and the house is equipped with motion lights in the back. Northington comments: “This will happen every time
- every time anyone off campus leaves for break, their house will most likely be broken into.”

Seniors George Weld and Chris Wyrick also experienced a break-in. Police estimate the robbery occurred between December 26 and January
8, the thief taking Weld’s stereo, a towel, and a case of beer. “We think they used the towel to
wrap the stereo in,” says Weld. The thief also damaged both telephones but left behind a hat which hopefully will
yield some clues. The police apparently have a suspect in mind, first telling Weld and Wyrick that he was in
jail, but now telling them that he is not.

Other Davidson students living off-campus have experienced crime before. Rachel Braden, Margaret Baker, Shelly Mott, and Elizabeth McRee’s house was
broken into over fall break, the thief entering by breaking the back window and then unlatching it from the inside.
The thief took CDs, which he apparently selected from a large collection, a Polaroid and another camera, an alarm clock,
a cordless drill, and a portable stereo while leaving a computer, the stereo, and a television. Says Baker: “It was
almost like he was Christmas shopping in our house - he took the strangest things, like a drill, while leaving
most of the valuable things. We think maybe he just didn’t have enough time.”

Spainhour says: “I am really surprised that things like this can happen in such a small community — and on
such a small campus.”

Fund-raiser to benefit Reading Buddies

Charity raffle will assign winning student's name to new basketball court

By Peter Varney

In order to raise funds for Reading Buddies as well as to provide a name for the new outdoor recreational
facility between Martin Court Building F and the soccer practice field, volunteers will be selling raffle tickets this week from
Monday, January 23, through Thursday, January 26. Senior Class President B.J. Rudell, who is organizing the effort,explained that the original
idea for a raffle came from seniors Chris Hood and Chad Lloyd, who wanted to name Building F after a
student. The suggestion evolved into a more service-oriented project, involving the new basketball and volleyball courts currently under construction and
due to open in the coming week. About twenty volunteers participating in the raffle will go door-to-door on campus Monday
and Tuesday evenings, selling individual tickets for $2. On Wednesday and Thursday, tickets will be on sale in Chambers lobby.
Purchasers can buy as many tickets as they wish. All proceeds from the ticket sales will go toward Reading Buddies,
a division of Reach Out involving around eighty Davidson students. Members of the group work one-on-one to improve the reading
skills of Davidson Elementary students. B.J. Rudell explained that the program normally receives only $100 per year, and that the
projected receipts from the raffle could be very beneficial. Director of the Campaign for Davidson Jamie May, who has agreed
to donate a sign for the new outdoor recreational facility, will draw the winning ticket at 7:30 on Wednesday, February
1, in the 900 Room. The winner’s name along with the amount of money raised for Reading Buddies will appear
on the sign in front of the courts through the end of the semester. “We hope to raise a couple
of thousand dollars this year, maybe more,” says Rudell. He anticipates another raffle next year to rename the courts and
benefit another service organization.

Sororities to replace eating houses? Forum Thursday to discuss possibility with national Greek representatives

By Randy Hartwell

While freshwomen have already chosen their eating house options for next year, discussion is in progress for the possibility of
another social option for women at Davidson: nationally chartered sororities. At a question-and-answer session to be held in Chambers Gallery
at 8 p.m. on January 24, representatives from Alpha Delta Pi, Chi Omega, and Zeta Tau Alpha will come to
discuss the possibility of a women’s Greek system and to gauge student interest in such a system. Though several sororities
have long expressed the desire to establish chapters on campus, the forum is largely the result of sophomore Barbara Harvey’s
efforts. Harvey, who attended Georgia Tech in the fall, pledged Zeta Tau Alpha and thought that Davidson would make an
ideal place to begin a new chapter of the sorority. With Tech’s student population of 12,000, Harvey found rushing almost
a necessity. “I went into rush to meet people,” she says. But she was not without her misgivings. “You know
when you see Delta Delta Delta on ‘Saturday Night Live’? That’s exactly what I thought of,” Harvey says. Rather than
snobby girls determined to exclude those without fashion sense, Harvey found a community of open, giving women. “People want you,
and there’s a real effort not to make you feel pressured. They strive for an unintimidating atmosphere,” she says. Yet
it is exactly that reputation for exclusivity that concerns some Davidson women. Sophomore Carey McAlister, a member of Rusk, favors
Davidson’s perhaps more democratic method of signing up for a house. “The objection I would have [to sororities],” she says,
“is the whole pledging process — the eating houses give everybody an option.” Patterson Court advisor Kurt Holmes believes that
much deliberation will have to take place before the college determines whether a women’s Greek system is really the better
alternative to the present eating house system. “We are happy with the way women’s groups have been represented on campus.
Should [Davidson women] want to go to national sororities, the college will have to take a hard look at that,”
he says. Harvey, who is a member of See Delta continued on page 3

Sign up to run for elections in Dean of Student's Office.

Photo by Brandon Clarke

The new sports courts were installed during the holiday break.

New Alge HAIR DESIGNERS

A full service salon for men and women

DAVIDSON STUDENTS RECEIVE $1.00 OFF SERVICES WITH A STUDENT I.D.

Select from a line of Paul Mitchell and Logic hairstyling products. Manicures also available.

South Lake Shopping Center next to Harris Teeter 892-3067
