THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1995

Picture the typical Davidson Wildcats’ men’s basketball game. There you are sitting down to a nice enjoyable evening of entertainment when something a few rows below catches your eye. At first glance, it appears to be a huge red undulating blob, writhing up and down making hideous noises. Startled, you take a closer look and as things come into focus, you realize it’s the Crazy Cat Fan Club. You all know the scene. The last couple times I’ve found myself in this situation, I’ve been disturbed by the behavior of this amorphous cheering monster. Rude is one word that comes to mind. Tasteless is another. But immature is probably the best word to describe this beast. Now don’t get me wrong; cheering is a wonderful thing. Division I athletic programs exist in large part because people like to cheer for their favorite team. And the Crazy Cats do a good job of trying to raise fan support for Davidson’s basketball team. However, cheering for one’s favorite team is distinctly different from maliciously taunting an opposing team or the referees. From my observations, I believe several members of the Crazy Cat Club to be much more adept at the latter than the former. As a fellow spectator, it revolts me to see a classmate wait till the crowd is silent and then yell at the top of his lungs (among other things), “Frankie, you suck!” No, Frankie King does not suck. Nor does Randolph Childress. Nor do any of the other highly trained athletes who have graced Belk Arena. Each of them represents hours and years of hard work honing their skills to a level where people will pay to watch.

Katie McKelvie
Valentine's Day projects for the romantically impaired

Being in the solitary state that I am, I have more time on my hands than most. Instead of spending my hours in a state of paralyzing anguish about the impending arrival of that day singles detest most, a.k.a. Valentine’s Day, I have compiled the following Top Ten list of activities. Enjoy.

Ten things to do on Valentine’s Day to keep your mind off the fact that you’re not getting any loving:
1) Buy yourself a silk rose from the Union Café.
2) Wonder about the homoerotic undertones in last week’s karate/concrete breaking half-time show.
3) Send love letters on Pollux.
4) Talk to St. Stephanie; she always makes you feel better.
5) Go to Kohé alone and tell them it’s your birthday; not only will you get to sit at a table of people you don’t know (potential valentines?), but you’ll get a great “happy day” card.
6) Joke with David Valentiner about his name (I’m sure the novelty has yet to wear off).
7) Wear corduroy - it’ll make you feel good.
8) Sit around with friends and play some games I’ve found amusing recently: What name would you choose if you could have only one name (a la Cher or Madonna)? During dart games at the Pub, bet your friends to smooch a particularly drunk barfly if you hit the bullseye (match-making potential?). Sit around Saturday afternoon drinking Bloody Marys and watch Dazed and Confused (not technically a game unless you count seeing who can yell out the lines first). Insult your friends in Old English: “Fie, you wanton hussy! A pox on thee,” spake Kate. Exeunt.
9) Just to be spiteful of your own lonely condition, leave messages on people’s voice mail that they have flowers at the Union.
10) Finally, be thankful you don't have a significant other - what if they wore underwear like the guy on page 53 of the new J. Crew catalog?

Ken May
Settle down, Crazy Cats!

WHAT SEPARATES US FROM DOGS:
I JUST THREW UP, I WILL GO SEE MY DOCTOR, THEN SUE THE RESTAURANT THAT SERVED ME DINNER.
OOOH... I JUST THREW UP... HEY LOOK! MORE FOOD!

DISTRIBUTED BY TRIBUNE MEDIA SERVICES

Arsiyanti Ardie
How aware are we?

Have Davidson students learned anything since the freshmen geography quiz? I thoroughly enjoyed Africa Week and your recent coverage of it. Mulling over the issue, however, certain thoughts came to mind that have plagued me since I arrived a semester ago as an international student. How much one actually becomes aware of the world and events occurring in it is largely up to the individual at Davidson College, and rightly so. Information cannot be forced on people. At the same time, I’ve been rather taken aback by how unaware Davidson students are of the globe spinning underneath them, considering that we do constitute one of the finest colleges in the nation. An overused but appropriateExample would be our scores on the freshmen geography-current events test taken during orientation. Ignorance, however, is not the issue here. My point is, how many of us regularly choose to familiarize ourselves with the places and events surrounding us? If you took the freshmen test with next year’s class, how much better would you fare? How many of us attended one of the Africa Weeks events? Toured the Chambers Gallery? Could cite new facts we learned from the Toilet Paper? Name the city in which Japan’s recent earthquake, killing 5000, took place? I find such questions worrisome. Davidson College’s Statement of Purpose (1994-5) reads: “The loyalty of the College extends . . . to the whole human community.” Last year’s version expressed similar sentiments, “the College... would seek to serve the world.” How can we be loyal to what we do not know, and serve that which we do not understand? Are you tired of these stupid little comments at the edge of the page? Then write for Opinions and fill this space with your own ideas.

A level of skill that can earn them an education worth $20,000 a year (much larger a figure than the ten dollar Crazy Cat membership fee). It sounds to me like these guys should be praised and applauded for their dedication, not ridiculed. As if it’s not enough that the opposing team has to hear everything the Crazy Cats say (and believe me they do), the club goes so far overboard that they consistently elicit reciprocating taunts and expletives from the victorious opponents as they leave the court after the game. Now as a final insult, Davidson’s athletic department must issue a spectator code of conduct at the game because of complaints to the Southern Conference commissioner. What a disgrace! Such despicable behavior is a source of personal embarrassment not only to me but to the entire Davidson College community. Here’s some advice for you Crazy Cats who insist on belittling the other team. If not for the sake of opponents, Davidson’s reputation, or my eardrums - for your own sakes do yourselves a favor: act your age and SHUT UP!

Ike Bailey

The force of Higher Learning

Today, violence pervades television shows and video games. This trend can be deadly because there is a possibility of becoming desensitized to violence. The latest fad is trying to make money from our growing concern over violence. This can be unnerving and threatening because this suggests an utter disregard for the effects of such a trend. Yet, violence can be used effectively when necessary. In John Singleton’s latest movie, Higher Learning, I believe that violence is portrayed in a realistic manner, which allowed him to deal with the issue of race in a constructive way. Sometimes our best, maybe only, weapon against apathy and complacency is realism. The movie is set at a fictional college, Columbus University, and depicts the racial tensions at this predominantly white university. Singleton touches on unforced segregation, hate, sexuality, fear, ignorance, date-rape, and other issues. These topics are given power and life through realistic portrayals. Because he deals with so many topics, some might suggest that this takes strength out of the movie. I see this as one of the movie’s strengths. Having such a wide range of topics, he is relieved of the burden of trying to solve our racial problems in a two-hour film. Singleton pursued those topics in a way that the audience could see the confusion and challenges of the characters. We, the audience, are so consumed with reality, we are forced to think. We are forced to think about our lives and our views. We are forced to see our flaws and those of others. We are forced to see the need to solve. The audience feels the anger and realizes the difficult situation of each character. Singleton does not allow one to take sides on many of the issues, because each character has major flaws that cause tension. He shows the extent of their thinking and the depth of their anguish.

Near the end of the movie, Singleton paints a clear image about the future of such continued hate and anger: a white guy and a black guy, full of anger, run along a stairwell towards one another; when they finally meet, there is an explosion of violence. You decide the meaning of such a scene. Higher Learning is important because it is a realistic and inescapable picture. It forces us to think about the need to end such senseless violence and makes us realize the possible effects of continued violence.