12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1995

ON THE SCENE TONIGHT

International Women’s Forum. Women of different nationalities will speak on their experience on the Davidson Campus. 7:30-9 p.m. in the 900 Room.

D.C. Brass Quintet. 8-9:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

Jumpin’ Java Cafe. In the Union Outpost from 8 p.m.-midnight.

Lief H. Carter from the University of Georgia political science department gives the Phi Beta Kappa Oration on “Who’s Afraid of Post-Modernism?” 8:30-10 p.m. in the Harrison Room of Vail Commons.

TUESDAY

Kama Kamanda, African writer, will discuss writing and read from his tales (in French) in the 900 Room from 4:30-6 p.m.

Walter Sinnott-Armstrong of Dartmouth University examines the insanity defense. 4:30-6:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Chief Judge Sam Ervin, member of Davidson Class of ‘48 and Chief Judge of the 45th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, speaks in Chambers Gallery from 7:30-9:30 p.m.

Jumpin’ Java Cafe. Outpost. 8-midnight.

21-year-old night. 10:30-12 in the 900 Room.

WEDNESDAY

Dabney Stuart, Professor of English at Washington & Lee and Editor of Shenandoah, will present the Charles Lloyd Award for Non-Fiction Prose and read from his own poetry. 4-5:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Picnic and Concert. Dinner will be accompanied by a concert and speaker out on the Commons’ Patio from 5-8 p.m.

Line and Stage Directions. Davidson presents two one-act plays by Israel Horovitz. 7:30-9:30 p.m. in the Studio Theater.

My Left Foot. 9:30-11:30 in the 900 Room.

THURSDAY

Line and Stage Directions. 7:30-9:30 p.m. in the Studio Theater.

Saxophone Recital. Jim Moss performs his senior recital in the 900 Room from 8-9:30 p.m.

William Ferris, Davidson Class of ‘64, speaks on “Memory and Sense of Place in the American South.” This discussion of visual and musical traditions in the South will include a musical performance. 8-10 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

Jumpin’ Java Cafe. Outpost. 9:30-midnight.

FRIDAY

Duke Power Plant Radioactive Waste Testing. All over campus, continuing through Tuesday. You might want to leave campus for this one.

ALL WEEK

Arnold Mesches Exhibition. “Selections from the Anomie Series.” In the Van Every Gallery. 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Monday through Friday.

Senior Exhibitions. Geoffrey McAllen’s work will be on display in the Smith Gallery. 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Monday through Friday.

Rants ‘n Raves

Sweet Success

Matthew Sweet's new album is a show of quality and talent

By Tom Bavis
Music critic for The Davidsonian

Matthew Sweet has created perfect pop music, and he calls it 100% Fun. From the fat guitar riff of the opening song, “Sick of Myself” to the bittersweet piano that closes “Smog Moon,” Sweet’s new album comes close to living up to its incredibly lofty title.

In case you are not familiar with Matthew Sweet, here is a quick description. Playing guitars and taking all the vocals, Sweet and his ever-shifting backing band update the guitar pop sound created in the 1960s by the Byrds and the Beatles. When he does it right, though, his albums have a sound all their own. He reinvents rather than merely copies his idols’ music.

“Sick of Myself,” the rousing first single, shows his ability to write catchy, original tunes. With the help of Brendan O’Brien (who has done an excellent job producing Pearl Jam andStone Temple Pilots, among others), the song forces a thick, warm sound out of the speakers that will make you think you’re spinning a record instead of a CD. Starting with a chromatic vocal run, “Not When I Need It” features the most interesting melody Sweet has ever conceived. Again, the world of sound he creates includes big drums, lots of guitars, and flawless harmonies. Hopefully, he will stick with O’Brien as a producer; had his 1991 classic album *Girlfriend* been recorded this well, it could have sold millions. Though the songs on *100% Fun* may not match the superlative quality of those on *Girlfriend*, it is still the best album I have heard in over a year.

Windy from page 10

...often sound composed, while compositions have the most vibrancy when they have an improvised feel. This interaction is the most important way that we go about expanding the formal context of the work.” Perhaps the most engaging aspect of the concert was the use of extended techniques to combine percussive and rhythmic sounds while maintaining a melodic contour. The trio incorporated twentieth-century techniques such as flutter-tonguing, over-blowing, and hole thumping to produce distinct percussive sounds.

Their Dolores from page 11

Hackford creates the past as a world both vivid and beautiful, as well as traumatic and terrifying for Dolores and her daughter. This movie is not the usual King horror flick about monsters in the sewer and zombies on the prowl. It is a movie about both the ability of womanhood to surmount loneliness and self-isolation in a small town, male-dominated society and the power of forgiveness — not exactly what you would expect from Stephen King.

Write for *The Davidsonian*. Call Mary Clare, Jeff, John, Jacob, or Schoon. -2148.

Classical training enables the group to utilize the method of circular breathing, which allows a continual melodic line without any tonal distortion or sharp pauses. The group also says of their music, “In the context of improvisation, we are building on the African-American forms which are predominant in twentieth-century American music. We also draw on experience performing the western classical music which is traditionally the starting point for through-composed music in this country.” Through-composed music (non-strophic) is similar to jazz in which there is no repetition or refraining.

For the unexperienced listener, the concert bordered, at times, on cacophonous hiccupping coupled with high-pitched frequencies. Dick, Parran, and Rothenberg were casual and laid-back, yet their keen attention to perfection was obvious. At one point in the concert, Parran sat down during the middle of a song and began to either meditate or catch a quick nap. Seldom does an audience witness a performing musician who can so elegantly incorporate a sneeze into a piece, but for Parran, it simply fit the improvisational mood of the piece.

Call your mommy.

New Age HAIR DESIGNERS

A full-service salon for men and women

Look good for your family over Easter Break with our EASTER SPECIAL*

Manicure and Cut & Style only $30.00 (regular price $40.00)

This offer is good thru Easter (April 16th)

*Don't forget to bring your Davidson I.D.*

Select from a line of Paul Mitchell, Matrix, Logic, Nexus, Sebastian, and Goldwell hairstyling products.

Southlake Shopping Center
Next to Harris Teeter
Cornelius, NC
892-3067