6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Week in Washington

Powell not to seek office

By David Santschi
Washington Week Correspondent

Gen. Colin Powell announced last Wednesday that he will not seek election to the presidency and will join the Republican
party. At a midafternoon news conference in Virginia, Powell ruled out running for elective office. “This was not the right
thing to do at this time,” said the 58-year-old retired army general.

Despite warm popular support for Powell, reflected in recent polls and his October tour to promote his book, My American
Journey, Powell concluded that the presidency would require “a passion and commitment that, despite my every effort, I do not
have for political life.” Confidants of Powell report that he had nearly decided to run two weeks ago. But after
an agonizing process of weighing his options and consulting with close friends, Powell reversed himself last Monday night. His cautious
nature simply could not be persuaded that his military skills could translate into success on the campaign trail.

His family was perhaps the strongest reason why Powell decided not to run. “It was family first,” said Richard Armitage,
who worked closely with Powell at the Pentagon. Powell’s wife, Alma, was openly concerned about disruption to their family life
and the political attacks that would be aimed at Powell as a black candidate. Those close to Powell speculate that
he did not want to subject himself and his family to the constant travel and fundraising that a modern presidential
campaign requires. Armitage also believes that Powell was not infected with the passion for the job that a presidential contender
must have to perform well on the campaign trail. “Colin Powell going out and asking people for money... wasn’t attractive.”

Powell also worried that his warm popular following would quickly diminish after he would be forced to answer tough questions
on specific issues. Also, money flows more readily to candidates with more extreme ideological views, while Powell is a centrist.

Powell’s withdrawal raises troubling questions about the American political system. While Powell’s personal integrity and moderate views drew a warm
reception from voters, the intensity and intrusiveness of a modern campaign discouraged him from running. Several other possible Republican candidates,
including former Vice President Dan Quayle, former defense secretary Dick Cheney, and former Housing secretary Jack Kemp, have also decided
not to run because of the harshness of campaigning and the immense sums needed to win. Some experts believe that
the political process deliberately turns away people like Powell who should be running for office, while others hold that campaigning
naturally weeds out people who are not prepared for the demands of the presidency.

Nevertheless, Shawn Barney, president of the student association at Howard University, said Powell’s departure “speaks to the difficulty of the
task.” While Powell’s departure may increase voter dissatisfaction with the current field, the campaign loses a factor of uncertainty. President
Clinton will certainly benefit, since he loses hypothetical races against Powell in national polls. With Powell out of the race,
more moderate swing voters may be more likely to vote for Clinton in a Clinton-Dole matchup. However, Sen. Bob Dole
(R-KS), the Republican front-runner for the nomination, was also relieved. Powell was the only Republican candidate who presented a serious
challenge to his leadership.

Interestingly, Powell has declared that he will join the Republican party instead of remaining politically independent. “I will act and
work as a Republican in the months ahead, trying to broaden the appeal of the party.” Even though he will
not be on the ticket, Powell’s leadership and stature could be a significant asset.

Sources include: November 8 of The Wall Street Journal and November 8 of The Washington Post.

Dean Rusk Program

Russia’s future unclear

By Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

So what’s going on in Russia? What ever happened to our former communist foes? With the exception of Chechnya and
a few middle page articles about Russia’s role in Bosnia, the press has had better things to worry about than
the U.S.’s former superpower rival. It is hard to imagine that less than a decade ago the United States was
trying to beat the USSR to the magical 100 mark (how many times we could blow up the world). But
there has been a lot going on in Russia since then. As one of the most populous countries in the
world, the second largest nuclear power, and as an incredible potential for economic growth and US investment, Russia still is
news.

Several big things are going on in Russia right now. Probably the single most important event in recent weeks has
been Russia’s agreement to join the NATO peacekeeping force that will be set up after peace in Bosnia is achieved.
This is a major breakthrough. A Russian presenceIn the peacekeeping force would greatly increase its legitimacy by balancing the force
with some pro-Serb troops. Russia has supported the Serbs throughout the conflict and so a Russian contingent to the force
would alleviate the impression that it is simply a Western pro-Bosnian government contingent. The agreement hinges on a deal that
negotiators worked out to allow Russia to save face. The major concern on the part of the Russians was that
they did not want their troops under the control of a NATO general. The way the current agreement is set
up, Russian forces will still receive orders from NATO command, but those orders will be given by Russian generals. This
allows Russia to feel that it still maintains control of its troops while not disrupting the vital centralization of command
required in a peacekeeping effort.

The other major news coming from Russia is that Russia’s elections are coming up and it is beginning to appear
as if Yeltsin is not going to be able to run for a second term (if he lives that long).
Russia is still in the process of trying to stabilize and define its government. A week ago Boris Yeltsin was
taken again to the hospital because of an insufficient supply of oxygenated blood to the heart. This marks the third
time in three months that Yeltsin has been hospitalized. Yeltsin has been the glue holding things together since the fall
of the Soviet Union, and many fear that if power changes either by a vote or by Yeltsin’s death, Russia
will fall apart. With the Russian communists leading the public opinion polls and the possibility of a coalition forming between
Gen. Alexander Lebed (the patriotic and most popular figure in Russian politics) and the communist party, Russia’s future is anything
but clear. If Lebed’s Congress of Russian Communities does join the communists in a coalition, an alliance which still has
several obstacles to overcome before it can be realized, they would control the government. And one has to wonder what
the effects a nationalistic communist government would have on Russia and the rest of the world.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1995

NOTES

Raising the dead?

Taylorsville - Even though Josh Simms’ relatives have given up their prayer vigil to resurrect the Alexander County teen and
bury him, family members still believe he’ll rise from the grave any day, their minister said Monday. Pastor David Sipe
said Simms’ father and grandmother had planned all along to bury the 19-year-old if members of the Life of Victory
Full Gospel Church were not able to bring him back to life through prayer. Simms, 19, was killed in a
car crash Oct. 30. He was buried outside Taylorsville Sunday in a private service.

“We didn’t get the victory, but the family said they were still strong in the belief that he’d come up
out of the ground,” Sipe said. “They would have felt a whole lot better if he had been raised up
the last couple of days, but they are not getting down. Their faith in God has not been shaken.”

Jack Simms, the youth’s father, has refused all requests for interviews. But Dianne Simms, the youth’s stepmother, said family members
believe that Josh did not want to come back to life immediately because of all the attention. “A lot of
it is their grief, but a lot of it is just their beliefs,” said Dianne Simms, who is not a
member of the church. “They really believe he’s not dead, just asleep.”

Sipe and his congregation maintain that a literal interpretation of the Bible shows prayer can be used to cure illnesses
and restore life. Last week, family and church members prayed, spoke in tongues, wrote “Josh Will Return” on mirrors and
laid hands on the body of the dead youth for six days in hopes of bringing him back to life.
Sipe said some ministers and Alexander County residents heaped scorn on church members for their unusual show of faith.

“We would have buried this boy sooner, but it was difficult to find a grave site,” he said. “Some people
wouldn’t sell this family a lot when all this hit the media. They think we are crazy. But we are
just standing on the word of God.”

News organizations from as far away as Los Angeles have reported the story of the vigil and the tabloid TV
show “Inside Edition” has contacted Simms’ father.

-Taken from the Wednesday, November 9, 1995 edition of the Charlotte Observer

892-4794 Sadler Square Davidson

Davino's Nightly Specials

Monday: Chicken Parmigiana $8.95 Domestic Beers $1.50

Tuesday: Pasta Night: Dinner for Two only $11.95 Import Beers $2.00

Wednesday: All-you-can-eat Pizza and Spaghetti $4.95 Pitchers $3.95 & Mugs $1.00

Thursday: Jumbo Stuffed Shells $7.95 Glass of wine $1.50

Bring this coupon in for 15% OFF ENTIRE BILL
