Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Davidsonian

"ALENBA mi 'UBL ORTA LIBERTAS"

Associate Business Manager

MARY CLARE HALONICK

Assistant News Editor

Circulation Manager

CRAIG MU

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

MONDAY, MAY 1, 1998

A big ball of change

The past few days, graduates from the years of yore have returned to their former haunting grounds for socializing and
the ever-depressing nostalgia trip. How awful was it for Bill, class of '79, to walk past Sentelle, and see smokers
hanging out on the benches shooting the bull, just as he had done? Was Jim, class of '62, miffed by
the presence of women in Chambers, where he and his buddies had gone to class? Did Bill, class of '44,
roll his eyes when he saw the flag flyer in the Union? Change brings discontent. No one would disdain the
levels that Davidson's athletic program is reaching; yet, surely there are those who resent the days when that piece of
the college's hefty bill went to more learned or youthful pursuits. With the increased lighting on campus, what was sacrificed
for the visible? These days, change is common; believe this does not come without caution. It is questioned, even, when
the benefits of change are in full force. Change builds a future, but it is not always desirable. Many suggest
that finding its balance is the key.

LETTERS

Please, feel our pain

To the Editor,

Cortina Connor has opened our eyes to the rampant intolerance presently riding roughshod over the Davidson campus. The crosses outside
of Chambers. These intolerant Christians have a whole damn church. And if the crosses were not an expression of how
I had been reminded of the church, it was just the tip of the iceberg. As if that is not
enough, the school persists on flying the American flag despite the high percentage of Southern nationalists and foreign students. And
what about the library? That seems particularly insensitive to me. Of the Davidson family, battle the disease of intolerance. A
flag in the library? It is not diversity at Davidson, not the subjugation of women in the name of service—down
with it. Glorify jingoistic, American, Judeo-Christian, patriarchal, intellectual values! Unless these symbols are eradicated from the Davidson campus and replaced
by multi-culty ideals, we will formally bring suit against the college on this and all our hyper-sensitive pinko-Communist comrades. Will
somebody please feel our pain?

Sincerely,
Patrick C. Brown '96
Dominic Newman '93
Betsy '95

We didn't cross Chambers

It was an event. Relatives of all seven a cappella groups in government came. It was a night in the
hall. The cancellation was a result of the hall's renovation. We recognize that while it was not an ideal situation,
it was a major disappointment about a major Davidson event. It is open for now, not warrant the absence of
the event. We hope that the event will continue with this community, that there will be a date. We are
disappointed about it.

The Davidsonian will continue to serve as a forum for open discussion and will publish letters from students, faculty, and
alumni. Please send letters to the editor at davidsonian@davidson.edu.

---is ease; bale sie Beha bBpHate 8% aad it. a ivi chults of the BC, about eBile all this; we
RHOW aa chaABE 18 ig Hell. ik ai ig aid expedited te Gi i et a2 Mm itive isi ihe
AbHioHs Hid Oplitiohs of coheEpt, sl is Hue: oe 88; the St wet di & &bfectivetess OF OnE did Not
Feed this ‘aie al je COHIHOKS, the BC without Hsstiniing the get ste fei it with ais Hat did aa
Anpinter! y be Belist — rit day | setied te pitioHs OF the Ee alg bs provi aiitike CHHsHal Conitniinity
beeen lititwi alas é kiowledge aiid éxpetetice at Chistiail co tihity altetiativeforthose wHodid — is unifort. nis how to hae
the Hext a a ad this was Hot ri ved. dot waiit te paHticipate. Sincerely, So; aliiititi, a oe ae
ive it Heong whackitig to see sau Watt the Badd THe BC tepteseits Matt Rich, ‘97 rl ibyitie ti sat
a ae f id ‘ lis Fae 7 rata eect | tee ite Diy splay ii the Eten deta Belinea
Cotincil 0} with i88ués yo fot Have the 08 (¥ wéhavé [Rei UHH iiHet— Hai Coil ie ery for ourselves
tH right atid wroiig; reet Lerai i8 a8 clear B iy al _ a8 tip aiid down. Will wristbands riiti
the ea wil the positions they were itieatit to upliA? W orinS prove disastrous? Who kiiows? Biit we could find
olit ea bit tHe kiiow. lee & we pail, iinprove Ourselves _ our college évéil itiore, Uiiderel assitiel, fight for
vi bu Bélléve itt; athletics Davidson graduate as “a well-rouiided individual.” The studetit-athilete, like the “Su Sport Division I faculty,
students, and alumni of Davidson, is that we ititist coltlHlle Division f athletics ui nafs cettali fequlnebiehis deitieati 5 {WOMANS
IB BRB brave coicert tegarding Di- doit séttie for what Ant ve ae Sétilois, take yout & Hi itt with
you. A fet pradiiation, vision fathlétios at Davidson at all costs. So iat Of out —stdeit-itilisician, etc. epito- reinietiber that
bavi son Ny ee tion ia i joHtiodd, abies aration forthe tHals | Coliege. This year, I thiet very divetse
stiidents fid — tiilzes the well-rolindedness aiid Stresses aiid jo He sa Bajoy: ik Bit dbi’t Be Satistied a the
satisfactory. | Sit a Hollaid after a Davidsoh’s elite statis ih we yeuti fot hete. Aith high, 8 hed the
old, eat cake . AiiBer OF chalges were Divisioii I att Atlee Thete has beet mention The ii s ellehe
a is uh Hula tes & ditt fe ctiees fies a brea is é to the athletic depart. deiits that
© se would of iHOvilig to Division Til, le. We ul té time Ba et ae ae ihe, haitely, HO
tralilers i 86 soitiew sis Sli. The ery if the athletic de- ee sHOeHHi ithe Davi Sourial showed, we wi
ety cs a ae patties, tte i coOthipetitive ath. pattitielt contitities to expe- oe Tes Tuk eau se Sw thal
iFCHAABE 18 Both tO Be Ht et ei a the sttiall-achool Heli Hepitive feedback ie will 8H att ste HOH
a ie ee yi dvi ts i ste ig dlitiost exclii- co Pie: he ms AG. Ye, we aad {Agree
with ll igidii req deghsogit een i sive ae i. Hit it this happen. ve te Ota a “a .
or" altsh esi parties: ut yes; we Bye tl lal ie i ieBEBISHI: Aig te Of but Esa H Haas
ae sul era é é 8 cui ail nee Sei : take gh pate fe ie td ot ine ye
honia he publ shed ise Bh Mande mart the tHe Sti deiits oe 5: nM ; iene oaganien Q SQ)
Hi ‘ iii i rt i bes H . ¢ BO. saa ae nee ayy 897 Oi tee 8 bi
it He prekneen Ht oo pl he itor ot fH Gi tii sik HIGH 3 my a ie a itis
the ite tiie ais it ity Erol dara: ah See ees See =< ie ie an retest. Copytiphit 18 He
se i erty Wie bead HUB) KARE 18 the sno iter “98
