2 THE DAVIDPHONIAN NEWS TUESDAY, MAY 9, 1995

Bill Gullan makes statement about smoking: he quits

Although no one could believe it, Bill Gullan announced on his weekly WALT radio town meeting that he will no
longer smoke. He is committing his life to good health and waking up early for morning jogs.

Chad Lloyd to spend next year heading up Bill Clinton's 1996 campaign

Chad Lloyd has had a change of heart. He has committed his life to campaigning for the liberal agenda in
the North or maybe in California. He says, "I might even give up hunting.”

Dennis Seavers puts on 100 pounds for a battle versus Hightower

Just when you thought you could accept your local campus policeman's moonlighting as a wrestler, you have to deal with
another surprise. Your chancellor, Bill's right-hand man, is going pro. "I'll try anything once," says Dennis. Watch him in the
Commons; he's the one with six plates. When asked if he too will stop smoking, Dennis says, “Maybe."

SAE senator Will Cowan goes an entire meeting without talking

SGA President Bill Gullan says, "No way. I felt like I was in charge, and I didn't even have to
use my gavel." Cowan says he was planning his strategy to arm every student.

Women students, led by Letitia Campbell, raid the SGA office demanding representation

"There are only 6 women on the SGA, and I feel that is a poor statement about our campus," says
one protester. The women feel strongly because they know the SGA is where all the power is on this campus.

SGA pin-up calendar in store for next year to raise funds for the public relations committee

"The SGA is very concerned about the image we portray to the general student body," says Warren Buford, vice president.
Bo says, "I think it will be fun." Jo says, "I think it is sexist." The freshmen senators don't care.
And, Allison Sabel says, "Let's start a new eating house that uses cat cards."

The SGA Olympics: A Lesson in Survival

By B.J. Rudell

On Sunday, May 7th, 33 dedicated and determined Student Government members traveled to Richardson field to compete in the first
annual SGA Olympics. Coming off the heels of “SGA Day,” the troops had little time to prepare for the event.
But with a renewed responsibility towards their constituents, few doubted their desire to thrive.

A minor setback occurred before the day even began: the bus carrying the competitors broke down in front of Rusk
House. While most senators walked the last tenth-mile, President Bill Gullan, with lighter in hand and Marlboro in mouth, opted
to wait for the next vehicle.

As soon as Vice-President Warren Buford sensed a quorum on the field, he made his move. With a cry of,
"Now I'm President!” Warren motioned that Davidson College move to his native Kenya. In the closest SGA vote ever, the
proposal failed by seventeen votes.

The first event—the 100-yard dash—featured five fierce sprinters searching for glory. Following a last-minute scratch from Sara Beth Hamlin due
to a hamstring she pulled while stretching, the remaining five racers lined up from left to right: Eric Rosenbach, B.J.
Rudell, Doug Neumann, Will Cowan, and Chad Lloyd. A heavy gust of wind lifted Doug to an easy victory. Second-place
Chad protested the race because it was government-funded. Will came in third, but could have fared better had he not
stopped at the 60-meter mark to shoot a deer. Rounding out the group, Eric edged out B.J.—again.

Ashley Tabb won the javelin throw without breaking a sweat. He later commented, “I was inspired by my roommate, Nick
Troiano, who served the SGA like a true champion, whose shoes I aspire to fill, whose spirit lives on in
me every Tuesday at 9:00 pm.” Nearby, David Derrick wept: “That was beautiful, Ashley.” Dennis Seavers also wept, not in
remembrance, but in pain; although his javelin sailed 200 yards, Dennis forgot to let go before throwing it.

The basketball game was moved from the Adriana Ortega Court behind Apartment F to the old one near the track;
it appears that some students parked their cars on the new court in protest. More complications arose when, in the
spirit of Krazy Kats, several spectators sporting “Psycho Psenators” t-shirts were granted preferred courtside seating.

Gautam Srinivasan, not known for kindling controversy, ignited a public outcry with his triumph in the shot-put. Pre-event favorite, Allison
Sabel, met an ugly fate when her disc landed in Dan Mojonnier’s hair. She demanded another toss, but no one
could find her.

Student Health Center finds cure for deadly disease

By Muffin, P.I. and her sidekick, Cheese Danish Investigative reporters

Director of the Student Health Center Dr. David Staton announced this week at a press conference that researchers at the
Student Health Center have recently discovered a cure for a dreaded disease that has killed thousands. “This is a major
medical breakthrough,” said Staton, as he announced that the bacteria which causes Parvo has finally been isolated and a vaccine
developed.kills hundreds of dogs annually. The announcement led to an angry outcry from students. Leading the campaign was outgoing Senior
Class President B.J. Ruddell, headed for the NBA thanks to all that practice he got on the new outdoor basketball
courts. “This is an outrage,” Ruddell says. “The Student Health Center is exactly that: for students. If they want to
do veterinary research, that’s fine. But don’t neglect the humans.”

In response, Staton said, “Once we discovered that humans cannot possibly get Parvo, we put all of our efforts into
developing a cure for it.” “We apologize to the Davidson College community for our lack of knowledge about and general
neglect of humans. But we felt that research into canine diseases was morally imperative,” Staton says. The Student Health Center
announced two days after the press conference that they will now turn to research on human diseases, because as Staton
said, "Very few dogs are insured, so doggie research just doesn't pay. We know that now." Studies will begin on
a number of sexually transmitted diseases in the next week. Some of those scheduled to be analyzed include “The Clap”
and gonorrhea. College Health Educator Georgia Ringle comments, “Now that we are going to study humans, we’ve decided to start
with something that affects 85% of college students: sexually transmitted diseases.”

“We have anticipated this shift to STDs for nearly a semester,” Ringle says. “That’s why we’ve put up nearly 50,000
flyers trying to scare people into thinking that they have an STD. That way, they’ll hopefully come in to be
tested, and we can experiment on them and use them for case studies.” The aim of the campaign is to
make everyone think they have the clap. So far it has been successful. One female upperclassman says, “After I had
that movement, I was positive I had The Clap. I mean, those flyers are everywhere.” After learning of their success,
the Student Health Center plans to step up the level of propaganda. New signs have slogans like, “You have The
Clap! Come in and get tested or die,” or “If you didn’t select the proper contraceptive method from the Wheel,
you are infected with The Clap! Come in immediately for experimentation... uh, we mean testing.”

President John Kuykendall applauds these new research initiatives. “As long as they’re done in a Christian manner and they’re helping
people, I’m all for it.”

There was no precedent in the By-Laws for a second throw. Tae Kwon Do was anyone’s contest to win. Sure,
Mike Farley is the best in the country, but Davidson is not the rest of the country. Being the sportsman
he is, Mike intentionally broke both of his own legs before competing. Saad Gul, the only chicken-herder in the contest,
eased through his tournament bracket, while Mike maimed three senators in his. In the thrilling finale, however, Saad captured the
gold with a triple-axis-roundhouse-double-loop-finesse-toe lunge, screaming, “They don’t teach that in the SGA!”

Tug-o’-War rounded out the day in dramatic style, as the males challenged the females in a battle for the ages.
Buster Burk, always trying to be helpful, recommended that President Gullan be anchor. Irritated by Buster’s innocent suggestion, Bill censured
him at the next SGA meeting. The females prevailed in the end, but not without a final statement from DeVere
Kutscher: “The outcome would have been different if Connor and Rusk had only one rep. like the rest of us.”
Rick Onkey moved to close the Olympics. The motion passed with one abstention.

Police buy fighter jet

If you have ever had concern about safety on campus, you can leave your fears at home when you return
to campus next year. Davidson’s finest are adding a new piece of equipment to their peacekeeping arsenal: an F-14 Tomcat
fighter jet. This new tool of justice, which the force endearingly refers to as the “lil’ mule,” will be unveiled
during orientation and ready for action at the beginning of next semester. Officer Laney explains the force’s motivation for the
new acquisition: “Well there always seems to be somebody bitchin' about campus security. If it’s not lighting, it’s bike thefts.
Well, we do our best, but we have—until now—little equipment to back us up. Sure we’ve got the Suzukis, but
sometimes they just don’t do the trick. I mean, some of the bike thieves we chase can really peddle, and
if you think you can get a clean shot while you are driving one of those things, you’re crazy. Anyway,
the lil’ mule will put an end to that. Not even those tour Dupont guys could outrun our little baby.”

The shiny new machine of justice will, of course, have more uses than just chasing down and obliterating bike thieves.
Sergeant Moore is particularly excited about how it figures into the whole parking ticket experience. Next year it seems you
will get a maximum of two tickets. If a member of the squad finds you parked illegally again, they are
going to send in the mule with Moore at the helm. He explains, “There ain’t gonna be no...”

See Jet on page 4
