THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1995

By Emily Smith
Staff Writer

Ever think of moving off-campus? While it definitely has its advantages, living off-campus is not all pure amusement. In fact, if scrubbing bathroom scum, forking over a check each month, or undertaking the occasional run-in with a plumber doesn’t sound like fun, it may not be for you. However, for 109 Davidson sophomores, juniors, and seniors, the glories of life off-campus far outweigh the housekeeping horrors. Now responsible for their own toilet paper, they have decided to leave the comfort of those lovable hall counselors and brave living on their own.

The obvious conveniences are overwhelming. As anyone who has ever survived life on a freshman hall will gladly admit, space is not exactly abundant. Once off-campus, whether in an apartment or a house, increased living quarters are almost a guarantee. Also, junior Henry Darst says that he enjoys not having to put up with excessive noise and adds that his bathrooms are cleaner than those shared by an entire hall. Susanne Herring, one of the 29 females living off-campus, appreciates the privacy of having her own room, cooking her meals at

Brits from page 10

fat count of, oh, say 99 grams. This is equivalent to an entire plate of fettucini alfredo or a single order of Scallion Chicken from Lotus. The English may have one-upped us on eloquent accents, better French Fries (the chip is one of the better things to have come out of that country, next to “Absolutely Fabulous!” of course), and cool castles, but as my friend said, “These people don’t know the first thing about making a decent deodorant — or wearing one!” I don’t think it’s so much that they try to offend everyone around them. They simply don’t have a concept of the benefits of using a device to mask one’s less than pleasing bodily functions. Deodorant is not just for your own well-being; it’s a gift you give your neighbor.

I guess it’s not fair of me to blame the English for this. The main perpetrators of this crime of nature were the flood-like tour groups of teenage Italians. They could call us loud, obnoxious Americans quite legitimately, but one thing we were not was teenagers. Try and picture the kid that played Vinnie on “Doogie Howser.” Now multiply that image by 95 on any given day or at any given hour. They made even us feel like locals, and that’s saying something.

Despite taking a dive in the River Cam while punting, falling down a flight of stairs on the double-decker bus, and getting my backpack stuck between the closing doors of a train (I was on the outside, my pack was not), England was glorious. The tea was cheap, and so was the Guinness, and so were the hostels — for reasons that became glaringly clear once you had paid.your five pounds for a short, thin mattress in a room with a dozen or so large Germans that may or may not have been other girls. I think they may still be taking steroids over there. And if you ever feel like sleeping on the floor of the YMCA in Dover, England with 50 other people (most of whom you don’t know) and sharing one shower is something you must do to live a fulfilled life, well, remember: there are people out there who will steal your towel. Oh, and don’t forget to ask Dave Dwyer about the fight he started at a pub in Cambridge. Good story.

HSME TOWN

New Stuff September 12th
Superchunk - G Love & Special Sauce
Lenny Kravitz
Morrissey
Lisa Loeb
Johnny Depp
Red Hot Chili Peppers

19507 NC Hwy. 73 * P.O. Box 2503 * Cornelius, NC 28031
(704) 896-7882

For many students, off-campus living is a well-deserved change of pace. Herring knew that a substantial number of juniors would go abroad for either a semester or the year. Often, they can alleviate the hassle of coordinating room assignments by moving off-campus. Though Herring decided to remain in Davidson, getting out on her own was just the “something different” she was looking for. So if the luxury of dorm life, in all of its extravagance, is beginning to (or already has) worn off, you may find yourself asking how to arrange for off-campus housing. The Residence Life Office can help. Though they only accept a few students, accommodations in Davidson are fairly accessible for interested students.

Phish from page 11

The Phish band’s newest CD captures the hyper, happy aura about the CD. “Stash,” originally from A Picture of Nectar, follows, leading us to question life and other deep, human concerns such as rotting solar garlic. The third track, “Gumbo,” features true elements of jazz, most noticeably the trumpet intertwined in the chorus. “Montana,” a new instrumental track, is short, but Fishman and Gordon’s percussion and bass truly groove. The 21-minute “You Enjoy Myself,” originally from Junta, is absolutely incredible and far better and more relaxed than the original. The second disc contains material from A Picture of Nectar, Lawn Boy, and several unreleased tracks that by no means lack the talent and versatility that is ever-present in Phish quality. The 31-minute jam on “Tweezer” is crazy and unstoppable — I loved it.

The album’s finale, “The Squirming Coil,” is by far the best, most intense song on the CD. Page McConnell on the keyboards is incredible, and the energy level is amazing as he brings the song to a shattering climax, then ends the album with an amazing piano solo that is definitely phunkengriiven.

LUNAR LUAU & PEP RALLY to Welcome 1995 Athletes and ALL FRESHMEN

Chariot races, contests between dorms, lots of give-aways for gift certificates, VCR...

THIS Friday, September 8th from 9pm-1am on Richardson Field