SPORTS MONDAY, APRIL 24, 1995

Farley strikes at Nationals

Davidson sophomore takes the gold in tae kwon do championships

By Matt Pitzer
Sports Editor

Get sophomore Michael Farley out on the basketball court, and he probably won’t be trouble. Put him on the football or baseball field, and he likely won’t scare too many people. But put him in a tae kwon do fight, and he won’t lose.

Over the weekend in Seattle, Farley reached one of the highest points in the sport, winning the National Cup Championships and being recognized as the best fighter in any age group and weight class in the nation.

“I can’t catch a baseball,” he said. “Most of the traditional things a normal American kid can do, I can’t do worth a damn. But I have no regrets.”

In two days this weekend, Farley fought 25 times in two weight classes — under 175 pounds and over 175. He won both. He also competed in a breaking competition and a forms competition. He won both. In recent memory, no one had ever won all four titles in one championship.

“I was pretty confident I could win my weight class,” he said, which is normally between 128 and 143 pounds. “But since I was fighting so far out of my weight class in the under-175 division, I figured I’d go ahead and compete in the over-175.”

Beginning Friday night, Farley fought 14 times in the under-175 group to beat out 74 competitors. In the heavier division, he fought 11 times to beat 68 fighters.

A normal tae kwon do fight consists of three three-minute rounds. Judging is somewhat similar to boxing in that a fighter can win on a knockout or on points. Fighters usually receive one-half point for a kick to the body or a kick to the head. Farley’s fastest knockout this weekend was in 18 seconds, and he had three other fights that lasted less than one minute. From the quarterfinal round on, each of his matches went the entire distance, and in the finals, the score was tied after the final round, with the winner being decided by the center referee.

In the breaking competition, participants have one-and-a-half minutes to attempt to break six concrete bricks and are judged on their technique. For the form competition, they are judged on a scale of 10. He earned a score of 9.95 in the breaking competition and 9.93 in the forms.

Farley has been training and competing in the martial arts since fifth grade and has literally made a name for himself around the world. After picking up the sport, he went to South Korea, where he began to master it. In the summer when he was between tenth and eleventh grades, he competed in the world championships with the Korean team and earned a silver medal. He was the youngest person ever to medal.

Fights here in the United States are harder to come across, and Farley hasn’t competed much recently. Back in October, he took part in the National Collegiate Championships and finished fourth, but only because he broke his foot.

Farley didn’t quit after the fracture, though. He took a cortisone shot and fought seven more times, before the cortisone started creeping up into his legs, leaving him with no feeling there.

“I didn’t want to quit,” he said. “In tae kwon do, punching to the head is illegal, so I just punched the other guy in the head to disqualify myself.”

The worst injury he ever had also came at the worst time. Just

See Farley on page 15

By Scott Tonidandel & Ashley Maner
Sports writersThe Men’s Tennis Southern Conference Championships were held at Davidson over the weekend. The favorite going into the tournament was regular season champion East Tennessee State University. They showed why they were the favorites by dominating all the flights in both singles and doubles. By Saturday afternoon, ETSU had clinched the tournament. Davidson, who finished fifth in the regular season, had a very strong showing. Some very close three-set matches were lost in the first two days. Nevertheless, Davidson was able to move up to fourth place in the tournament. On the final day, the Cats had a good opportunity to overtake Furman for the third spot. Unfortunately, due to the rain, all the remaining matches were canceled except for the finals, and Davidson had to settle for fourth.

Davidson was represented in the finals at the number two position in both singles and doubles. Bill Mithchem and Dan Parham faced off in the final against the number one seed ETSU. ETSU’s team had gone undefeated the entire year in conference play. Davidson started strong, capturing the first set. ETSU recovered in the second and evened the score at one set all. Mithchem and Parham pulled ahead in the third and were serving for the match at 5-3. ETSU fought back and was able to even the score at 5-5. The two teams played hard and forced a third set tie-breaker. Unfortunately, the experience of ETSU was too much and they took the deciding set 7-6.

Freshman Jon Pastel played in the finals at the number 2 singles position against ETSU’s Antonio Robles. Robles, who has gone undefeated in the past two years in conference play, was recently named conference player of the year. Pastel, who was named to the all-conference team in singles, was not worried. Robles played a great first set, but Pastel was able to regroup in the second to even the score at one set all. Robles then won the first two games of the third set, and it looked as if Robles would remain undefeated. Pastel refused to give up. As Pastel evened the score at 2-2 and then took the lead, Robles looked baffled by the Freshman’s exceptional play. Pastel didn’t let up and won six straight games in the third set to become the conference champion.

The Davidson Women’s varsity tennis team ended their 1995 season with a surprising fourth place finish at this weekend’s Southern Conference tournament. After a tough regular season, Davidson’s young team was predicted to finish fifth in the tournament, but with wins in several key matches, they were able to pull ahead of East Tennessee State. Overall, Georgia Southern dominated the weekend, with championships in all six singles and three doubles flights.

Individually, Davidson finished with two runner-up trophies at the number three and five singles positions. Sophomore Ashley Maner came into the tournament seeded 6th, and she upset the number two and three seeds in two long three-set matches on the way to the finals. For her efforts, Maner was also awarded the 1995 Women’s Sportsmanship Award. Freshman Lynne Hall entered the tournament with an outstanding regular season conference record of 6-1, and she then proceeded to the finals of her #5 flight. A rain delay on Sunday moved the finals indoors, where both Hall and Maner were defeated in straight sets by Georgia Southern. Assistant Coach Albie Varoski said, “The hard work paid off this weekend. All the girls played great, the crowd was fantastic; it was a great experience.”