THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1995

U.S. News college ranking does not worry Admissions

By JOANNA JOHNSON
Assistant News Editor

Davidson’s unlucky slide down 13 places in U.S. News and World Report did not cause Dean of Admissions Nancy J. Cable to presuppose a decline in the number of prospective students or applicants. Contrary to some beliefs, Davidson’s steady increase of applicants in recent years was not solely a result of the school’s top positioning in the report. Cable points out that this increase began three years ago, two years before Davidson was declared the eighth best college in the nation. Cable, though stating that she is “not in a position to say what effect the report will have,” believes that the Office of Admission can still expect to receive as many or more applications. “We are in the wonderful position that just describing Davidson’s strength is important,” Cable says.

GIVING THE GIFT OF LIFE
Senior Brad Hilsmier donates blood during the ROTC Blood Drive Thursday in the Union. Rob Kosicki

Lease from page 1

grass grow too high to mow, so that he had to use a weed-whacker instead. Despite not living up to his responsibilities as a landlord, residents claim that he still placed extreme expectations on tenants. Tenants had to sign leases that banned kegs from the houses, required them to register every party with Case, and subjected residents to a one dollar fine for every beer can found on their lawn. On the other hand, some residents had few complaints, and said that though Case detailed unfair requirements in their leases, “he would never [enforce] them.” In fact, some former tenants held little against Case, describing him as “an all right guy” who often came to their parties just to socialize. Other students describe Case as amicable only when they were prospective tenants but hard to deal with when they became residents. Some claim that though he is a “good businessman,” he was often negligent toward his responsibilities as a landlord. One past tenant said of his experience with Case, that “overall, it was OK but it wasn’t the most convenient of situations.” Marshall Case was unavailable for comment.

Campbell from page 3

call 911, police officers will be forced to inform in writing the students’ landlord on the day after the party. Reporting to the landlords was suggested a few years ago by a group of landlords who wished to know of student residents’ activities including any violations of the law. Some students like Jenn Williams, who has lived off campus for several years, feel that students should be responsible enough to live in the community without the harping of community members who stereotype off-campus students as being irresponsible and disruptive. “If you are a student and the police must come to your house to tell you to quiet down the noise, then your landlord hears about it the next day. Whereas the police don’t report anything to the landlords of non-student renters. Isn’t that kind of discriminating and goes to show that this town must think that college students are synonymous with loud noise and partying?” said Williams. McKiernan added that it would not hurt for students to get to know their neighbors and even tell them

Campbell from page 16

of the world, we have a responsibility to think globally. Because we are more educated than most people will ever be, we have to work with people who do‘not have a voice in international relations. Dealing with women’s concerns more locally, could you explain the purpose of the Women’s Issues Committee here at Davidson? The Women’s Issues Committee is one of the committees on the Union Board, and it’s the job of the Women’s Issues Committee to do programming on issues that women face at Davidson as well as national women’s issues.

Washboard from page 3

same way. My favorite machine was the shirt presser. Ever wonder how your shirts get those little rectangular marks in the front? Those are the marks of this machine, holding the shirt in place. It holds it in place on a device roughly shaped like a torso. They push the button, and the “torso” moves into a box where it is pressed, with lots of steam and hissing. The “torso” then pops back out, looking like a million bucks in its freshly pressed shirt. As this is a vague description, I refer those interested to the scene in The Empire Strikes Back where Han Solo is frozen in the carbonite pit by Darth Vader. The parallel is striking.

The last device of note is another dry cleaning device, affectionately named “Suzie.” “Suzie” is a device roughly shaped like a female, used to get the wrinkles out of dresses. “Suzie” actually wears the dresses, allowing someone to work on them while they are roughly in the shape of the wearer. “Suzie” also gets used when wrinkles need to be removed from sport jackets. Go to the desk and demand to see her. The staff will gladly indulge you.

I hope that you have gained some insight into the realm of Davidson laundry. The staff asked me specifically to make this point, so if you’ve learned nothing else, keep this in mind. The staff there works hard to make sure that everything you send gets back to you in the best shape possible. So the next time you squint for your number, whip out that pen and write those digits, because, people, no one needs to go blind over laundry.

It encourages discussion and promotes good relationships between women faculty and students. This fall we’re doing two book discussions on Naomi Wolf’s second book, Fight Fire with Fire, an eating disorders awareness week, a global women’s awareness week, and a speaker in October to talk about homosexuality in the church. If people want to be involved in women’s issues and how what we do at Davidson fits in with the rest of the world, I encourage people to get involved in the Women’s Issues Committee.

When a big party is planned. “This way neighbors can simply come over and say the party is too loud or whatever before they end up calling us,” he said. Although many students were apprehensive about the meeting, their reactions were mainly positive; feelings toward the townspeople of Davidson were both cooperative and understanding. “I really think this meeting was a great idea because it let everyone know who the police are, that they are here to help and govern. They are not here to break up the laws and know that we must enforce them,” said senior Jonathan Pieslak.

$$ Stock Market $$ Internship

Learn to trade stocks and options intraday from professional traders. College credit. Cash for evening work. Trade your own account for extra $$. 948-4302 or 892-5696 (Richard)

A GIANT DELICIOUS BROWNIE WITH BEN & JERRY’S FAMOUS ICE CREAM, HOT FUDGE?

507 Providence Rd. * 333-1003
The Arboretum * 543-8333
202 S. Main St. * Davidson * 892-0604