THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1995

4

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
MANDY CURTIS
JEFF KENT

Opinions Editor
DAVID SANTSCHI

Copy Editors
ROBERT RAMSAY
TERESA WHITE

Arts & Living Editors
JACOB ABRAHAM
WILLIAM ROBERT

Associate Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
KATHERINE HASH
RUSS TARVER

Sports Editor
MATT PITZER

Advertising Managers
WALT BARRON
MARY CLARE JALONICK

News Editor
CAROLINE BYNUM

Photography Editor
ROB KOSICKI

Assistant News Editor
MATTHEW EIRICH

Circulation Manager
CRAIG MURPHY

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

The virtue of curiosity

As students, we often lose ourselves in a world of papers, tests, athletics, socializing, and extra-curricular activities. We become so
lost, in fact, that we lose sight of the institution which fosters our growth and feeds us into the outside
world — the same institution which we fund as parents, students, and alumni. Staff, faculty, and student service adjustments constantly
occur as we bury our heads in books, build friendships, and plan our lives. Students, parents, faculty, and alumni are
poorly informed about such adjustments, and it is disturbing that it takes a distorted rumor or an anonymous tip in
order to generate interest in such changes.

The questions remain. As students, parents, and alumni, how much should we know about what goes on at Davidson? Should
subtle “adjustments” be disregarded or left unknown? What really does go on behind the scenes? How much do we really
know? It is so easy to dismiss the laying-off of Physical Plant employees, the consolidation of Career Services and Experiential
Programs, or academic budget cuts as entirely outside the realm of our concern. But should such occurrences be so intangible?
Do we as students, parents, and alumni have any right to pry into executive decisions to find out what’s going
on?

We learn in our classes to dig deep and to ask probing questions, to analyze and to discover answers. Sometimes
contradictions and mysteries will exist, but it is our responsibility as free thinkers to explore the less than lucid side
of the entities which embrace us.

Testing curiosity

Davidson has a way of smothering you. The small community we have here is nurturing, to be sure; we are
cradled in its arms of common drive and common experience. Sometimes, however, those arms can prove crushingly protective. We must
push those arms away—not spurn them, mind you, but make them relax their grip. College is our chance to individualize—to
start running and see how far we can go without collapsing. Just as we need to appreciate the accessibility of
professors, the convenience of Patterson Court, and the privilege of the laundry service, we cannot allow them to become our
artificial lungs, pumping the oxygen into us as we study on with admirable Davidson tunnel-vision.

There is so much out there that we must take advantage of now. We have not been plunged into the
real world, as the orientation committee would like parents of freshmen to believe. We are in a microcosm of quasi-reality,
and after college we’ll be in for another culture shock if we don’t do something to widen the perspective. For
example, here’s spring break. The door is open, the sky is clear, and the road is before us. We shouldn’t
spend the week complaining about the rigors of Davidson or thinking how much work the next week will bring; we
spend enough time coping with that while we’re here. Let’s forget about it—pretend Exit 30 does not exist. Let’s leave
this institution to itself for a few days, and go have ourselves a good visceral experience. Whether we go to
the beach, to the mountains, or home, there is dirt, and we need to put our hands in it.

We will return to these loving arms. We will climb back in the cradle and continue with our studies and
our search for the elusive A. Hopefully, though, we will have widened our tunnel-vision. We will have gained some insight
into a frustrating delineation: when does community become isolation? When does a service become a crutch? When does an embrace
become a stronghold? The insight we gain may show that Davidson is not smothering us, but keeping us from being
smothered. It may show that the crutches are keeping us from falling down. But it will most likely show that
once we start running on our own, we won’t ever want to stop.

“Well, I have this splitting headache...”
“Well, I’m...”
“We cleaned your ears, we gave you the Strep test; and, we gave you some brochures. There isn’t anything else
we can do for you, so you must be OK.”
“Maybe he has mono.”
THE INFIRMARY SATISFIES ANOTHER CUSTOMER.

LETTERS

Project Life gives thanks

To the Editors:

On behalf of the Project Life Committee, I would like to extend our utmost gratitude to the current editorial staff
and to the former staff. Your eagerness to support our bone marrow drive with publicity and your outstanding...Coverage of our
various events helped us reach our financial goals and resulted in placing another 295 names on the Red Cross National
Bone Marrow Registry — bringing our five-year total to approximately 1800. Davidson can still boast of having the most successful
student-run bone marrow drive in the nation. Although these numbers are impressive, our success can be measured another way. The
Red Cross recently contacted another student typed at one of our previous drives and asked him to donate his marrow.
The student agreed and will donate after spring break. This is what the drive is all about—giving severely ill patients
hope and a chance to live. Project Life could not be this successful without the genuine concern and support of
the student body and the Davidson community. Our deepest thanks are extended to you as well.

Sincerely,
John Ramey & the Senior

Senior Champagne Party: the facts

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices
are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or
commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editors:

It has finally come down to writing to The Davidsonian to make sure that none of the “facts” about this
party and why BSC is participating do not become misconstrued. Many have questions about the BSC’s trying to host this
event, especially since it involves alcohol. Therefore, this article serves as an explanation for the party so that there will
be no doubt of its purpose. And hopefully after reading this article, there will be full participation from all the
houses on the court and Fiji.

“The First Annual Senior Senior Champagne Party” is an event hosted by the BSC and sponsored by every house on
the Court, including Fiji. At the last senior champagne party, hosted by Warner Hall, only senior men and the women
of Warner Hall were invited. Earlier in the year, PiKA hosted a similar party, except the only people invited were
all senior women and only PiKA men. By having and hosting the party at one house, all seniors cannot go.
The sole purpose of having BSC host this party is to bring together all seniors, regardless of sex and social
affiliation.

On February 5, I sent out memos to all house social chairs, Kurt Holmes, and Dean Shandley which served as
a written explanation about “The First Annual Senior Senior Champagne Party.” It stated that BSC would love for each house
to co-sponsor this event, which is to take place on April 29. In the past, the BSC has sponsored many
parties with all of the houses on the court and Fiji. And if the BSC can get all houses to
support this event, no one group would feel the heavy financial burden of pulling this party off alone. There have
been several questions concerning this party already:

- “Why should they have a party that the entire house sponsors when all in the house cannot go?”
- “Why should we have expensive beer instead of cheap beer, such as the same beer that we have at
regular parties?”
- “How much will it cost my house?”

Right now, the calculated price is only $135 per house (if all join in). This will cover two cases of
champagne and $60 for part of a $75 keg. The final question many have asked is, “Why does the BSC,
a dry house, want to host a party that involves alcohol?” The BSC is a dry house and our bylaws
state that we cannot use any of our monies to purchase any alcohol. As in the past, the BSC monies
will pay for the DJ, alternative drinks, and food. To make sure that this party goes well, all houses will
vote on their commitment by March 15. This way if there is any need for a re-calculation, it won’t be
last minute.

In conclusion, the “First Annual Senior Senior Champagne Party” should succeed. The “Class of 1995” has worked very hard to
finally reach that light at the end of the tunnel. Before the seniors come into contact with that light, however,
I would just love for all of the seniors to get together before finals and reminisce over the past three
years. But at the same time, I would love for all students to have a great party afterwards. The “First
Annual Senior Senior Champagne Party” could act as that narrow beam of light that all seniors are beginning to see.

Sincerely,
Jason Burt ’95
