12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1994

Jonathan Dancy, President of the Aristotelian Society in England, comes to speak on “Moral Thought and Moral Principles.” 4:30-6 p.m.
in the Morrison Room.

Stress Relief. Dr. DeWitt Crosby speaks on “Staying Relaxed — The ABC’s of it: How to spell R-E-L-I-E-F!” 7-8:15 p.m.
in the Big Screen Room.

Guelwaar. The Dean Rusk Program presents this foreign film from 8-10 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Fashion Show Video Study Break. Presented by F.L.A.G. in the Big Screen Room from 9-10:30 p.m.

Tuesday

Coffeehouse. 8:30-11 a.m. in the 900 Room. Doughnuts, coffee, tea, and juice.

James Watt. “The Challenge of HIV (AIDS) and TB: Balancing Individual Freedom and Responsibility.” 4:30-6 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Oleanna. 8:15-9:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium. David Mamet’s controversial and critically-acclaimed off-Broadway play.

Twenty-one-year-old Night. 10:30-midnight in the 900 Room. Bring your college I.D. and driver’s license, and get happy.

Wednesday

Dr. Charles Joyner from Coastal Carolina University will speak on “The Sacred Triangle: Creolization of African Culture in Carolina and
the Caribbean.” 4:30-6 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Citizen Kane. 9:30-11:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Rosebud!

Thursday

Robert Kane. “Through the Moral Maze: Searching for Objective Values in a Pluralistic World.” 4-5:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

School Daze: A Parody. Members of the BSC perform a parody of the life of an African-American student at Davidson.
7-8:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Friday

Prof. Gilbert Harman. “Rationality in Cognitive Science.” 4:30-6 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Saturday

Girl Scout Cookie Sale. Yes, it’s that time of year again! 11 a.m.-3 p.m. in the Union Lobby.

Sunday

What’s Love Got to Do with It. A film about the life of Tina Turner. Don’t miss Lawrence Fishburne’s great
performance and great afro. 8-10 p.m. in the 900 Room.

All Week

The Heidi Chronicles, a one-in-a-million story, by Wendy Wasserstein. Tuesday through Saturday at 8-10 p.m., plus a Sunday matinee performance
from 2-4 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

Senior Exhibitions. Open weekdays 10 a.m.-4 p.m. and weekends 2-5 p.m. in Edward M. Smith Gallery at the VAC.

Ansel Adams Exhibition. “The Man Who Captured the Earth’s Beauty.” Open weekdays 10 a.m.-4 p.m. and weekends 2-5 p.m. in
William H. Van Every, Jr. Gallery at the VAC.

Women’s Symposium. “Tomorrow’s Women: Issues of Concern to Men and Women as the New Century Approaches.” Monday, Feb. 27, 7-9
p.m. in Hodson Hall.

COOKIN’ INDIAN

By GEORGIE SCHIMMEL
Staff Writer

They ate roasted poppy seeds and almonds, boiled tomatoes and parsley and yogurt gravy, ginger and garlic, and even some
chile and onions — and that was only the sauce. As an appetizing complement to Solidarity Week, the College Union
last Friday offered an Indian Food Workshop in the Alumni House. Under the knowledgeable guidance of senior Devjani Dev, the
event unfolded into a particularly enjoyable evening.

Those attending the workshop had the opportunity to learn about the preparation of Indian food firsthand. Cooking tasks were divided
among the students, who, following Devjani’s instruction, emerged from the steaming kitchen within an hour to assemble their spiced labors
on the table.

In the kitchen, Devjani explained where one can find the various spices in the U.S. and how those spices are
used in Indian cooking. Though the table was set conventionally with plates and silverware, many students abandoned convention for the
more traditional style of Indian dining. Junior Christine Roberts was one of these students. “It was very authentic,” she said
with unconcealed enthusiasm. “I felt like I was in another place.”

As Devjani explained, “Basically you eat on plates but not with forks or spoons or knives. Instead, food is eaten
with unleavened bread used to scoop things up. Usually, you would eat on banana leaves for special occasions like weddings
and things, but of course, no one did that.” (Banana leaves were unfortunately unavailable.)

The lack of banana leaves, however, did not bother anyone. As sophomore Jenny Everett said, “There’s certainly something communal about
sharing in the preparations of a meal and savoring your achievements together. And once you get a feel for what
extra zest you’re looking for and what combinations you want in the palate, you can really enjoy the experience.”Your culinary
potential is limitless.” Sophomore Katie Brasfield shared her enthusiasm: “It was great.” As for the food? “Oh,” she exclaimed laughing,
“I liked it very much.” After further reflection, Jenny, at a loss for words and with her throat tight and
her speech subdued, could say only, “It was awesome.” Miles Mowry, a junior, enjoyed the Indian food workshop as well.
As is so often typical of a Davidson student, more was at work in his mind than the moment at
hand: “The food was delicious, but more important was that the Union got people together, people who would not normally
see each other. I got to chat about Davidson and I think that was more important than learning to cook
an Indian dinner — it was more than providing entertainment. Events like these are out there for people to get
together, to talk — and that’s what it’s all about.”

Gumbo from page 10

Awhile, though, everyone seemed to show a little more finesse than they had originally started with, or maybe those of
us watching just got a little more sympathetic. By 11:00, the music was “kicking,” according to sophomore Graham Ernst, though
I’d be wary before letting him DJ your next date function. I actually caught him humming some scary vintage retro-eighties
only moments before he made this comment. That might suggest that somewhere in the dark recesses of his psyche, great
Cajun rhythm reminds Graham of Andrew Ridgely’s contribution to Wham! — you know, back in the good old days, when
“Wake Me Up Before You Go-Go” was considered catchy. I will admit, however, that by 11:13, as “Queen Caroline” was
leading us with her stand-up bass, things had gotten pretty lively in the 900 Room. Maybe it was because performing
Cajun music had become a spectator sport. Armed with everything from empty Philly Cream Cheese containers to makeshift drum sticks,
my fellow revelers and I were good-naturedly adding what we could to the rhythm section. Luckily for junior Pete Boylan,
our “jam session” lasted several uproarious minutes — giving him time to swap his triangle (with which he was having
no luck) for a snappy maraca he could really shake. Who knew tapping plastic containers and shaking your car keys
could be so fun? When asked if Monday night’s Union festivities put them in the Mardi Gras mood, seniors Cathy
Oakes and Nicole Watson responded with an enthusiastic cry, “We’re there!” If anything, Ragin’ Cajun Night in the 900 Room
helped Davidson students feel a little of the color and life of New Orleans in their very own backyard.

Heidi from page 10

Are going in today’s society and how to bridge the communication gap between them. Symposium panelists include Charlotte news anchor
Bob Inman, Davidson professors Elizabeth Mills, Nancy J. Fairley, Peter Krentz, and Mary C. Thornberry, and Davidson students Sarah Orsbon
and Holt Vaughan. The symposium will be an “Oprah Winfrey-style event” in which, after an excerpt from the play is
shown, the floor will be open for discussion. According to Costa, the excerpts will serve as “jumping-off points” for discussion.
Costa hopes that the conjunction of the play and the symposium will raise the issue of whether theater can be
used “as a way to heal things.” She believes that by putting The Heidi Chronicles and “Tomorrow’s Women” together, some
“viable solutions” can be addressed and perhaps a greater understanding of where the topic of gender issues is going in
today’s world will be gained.

The Heidi Chronicles will be shown in Hodson Hall. It begins on Tuesday, February 21, at 8:00 p.m. with 8:00
p.m. shows through Saturday and a show on Sunday, February 26, at 2 p.m. Tickets are $6 general admission and
$4 for students and senior citizens. The opening night show is $3 for all tickets. The box office is open
from 2-5 p.m. weekdays, and tickets can be reserved by calling 892-2340. “Tomorrow’s Women” is on Monday, February 27, at
7 p.m. in Hodson Hall. Admission is free, but those wishing to attend should call 892-2361 for a reservation as
seating is limited. There will be a reception immediately following the symposium, hosted by Davidson fraternity Sigma Phi Epsilon.
