OPINIONS MONDAY, APRIL 24, 1995

Walt Barron

Making the grade

A friend of mine had a conversation with someone who is considering coming to Davidson. He told her about all
of the wonderful aspects of Davidson, but she had her mind set on attending med school and was solely interested
in the pre-med program. When he told her that the pre-med program at Davidson is wonderful, that the professors are
excellent, and that the students are very confident in the program, she was disinterested and wanted to know the grades
she should expect if she enters Davidson with intentions of going pre-med. I was impressed with my friend’s response, which
was, “Sorry, I don’t think that Davidson is the place for you.”

In theory, I agreed with him that Davidson is not the place to simply focus on making good grades. We
are all well-rounded people who were accepted to receive a well-rounded education. When I see the competitive environment that students
and teachers create, I question whether Davidson is really the best place to come and receive a “liberal arts education.”

The majority of Davidson students place entirely too much emphasis on grades. I constantly hear phrases such as, “If I
could just pull off a ‘B’ on this test,” or, “I really need an ‘A’ in this class.” People are
desperate to talk to others about grades. One of my classmates told me out of the blue the other day
that he made an A+ on a paper. After receiving “oohs” and “aahs” from those who heard him, he told
us that the teacher was an easy grader, and that his A+ wasn’t as good as it seemed. Who cares?
That’s great that he made an A+, but my view of him wouldn’t be any different if I found out
he made anything else. I had absolutely no interest in his grade, and by telling me he seemed a weaker
person. He obviously thought he would impress me by telling me about his A+, or else he would have kept
his grade to himself.

Teachers are just as guilty as students of creating a competitive and grade-centered environment. Many of my professors tell the
class highs, lows, and averages of graded assignments when returning them. Students begin to immediately lose focus on ways they
improved or could still improve and frantically worry how they compare to the rest of the class. I know that
this is true because I have seen it and been a part of it myself.

Another guilty party is the administration. I saw something at my fraternity house the other day that almost made me
sick to my stomach. It was a list comparing the average G.P.A.’s of all of the fraternities and social houses
on Patterson Court. Could someone please tell me what purpose this serves? It is one of the most obnoxious ideas
I have ever heard of in my life. Why do I care to know the average G.P.A. of my house
or of any other house?

Tené Moore

My second senior year

This past week as I sat down for my senior major dinner I was immediately asked a question somewhat like,
“What are you doing here? I thought you graduated last year.” Considering that it was so late in the semester
I wasn’t as well prepared to defend myself as I had been thousands of times before. I get asked that
question all the time because I am a second-year senior.

The term “second-year senior” is rather new or unfamiliar to most Davidson students. Davidson is known as being a four-year
liberal arts school, so it only makes sense that students come here and graduate in four years. There are probably
few cases when students do not graduate in this allotted time frame, but when students aren’t in sync with their
incoming class they usually have excuses such as, “I got sick and had to defer a semester,” or “I took
some time off.” But even with time taken off, they are expected to be out of here soon after their
return.

One of my many personal Davidson struggles has been the fact that along with not fitting into the ethnic or
socio-economic Davidson norm, I was unable to squeeze myself into the four-year graduation bracket either. My family and non-Davidson friends
were completely unsympathetic to my unhappiness about having to return for an extra semester because they weren’t coming from my
Davidson perspective. Their viewpoint was, “No one graduates in four years anymore” and “You graduating, ain’t ya? It don’t matter
when, just get the degree.” When I really thought about it on a larger scale, they were right.

I returned to Davidson trying to keep this larger perspective in sight, constantly reminding myself that nothing was wrong with
me because I was at Davidson for an additional semester. However, despite my easygoing and self-sufficient manner, there were times
when comments regarding my old trout status really made me wonder why I hadn’t gone elsewhere to gain my degree
instead of continuing to struggle at Davidson. For example, on my way to a forum a recent Davidson alum asked
me why I was hanging around Davidson. I gave her my practiced line, personally considering my answer as both polite
and sufficient, but her response surprised me. Almost sighing, she commented, “Well I’m trying to figure out how you could
have taken time off” and very obviously...other house? Does it mean that House A is stupid and irresponsible, or that
House B is brilliant and bound for success in the real world? Better yet, why don’t we compare the grades
of the basketball team versus the tennis team? Or, for an even better idea, let’s see who’s smarter: the history
or English department. Grades are personal information, and frankly, I don’t give a damn what anyone else makes. Isn’t the
purpose of college to receive an education? If I make all As, does that automatically mean that I am getting
the most out of my money — or the best education? Or what if I graduate with a 2.0? Does
that mean that I am an average person who will never amount to anything? The real measure of success here
is how much we can mature, grow, and improve in four years. There might be a small correlation between grades
and improvement for some people, but the real measure of success comes from a student’s satisfaction that he/she has done
his/her best and is a better person for his/her efforts.

I was in a political science class last semester which I enjoyed thoroughly. I made a C+ in the class,
which probably sounds mediocre. Sounds like I was gypped, especially considering I didn’t even take the class pass-fail. I didn’t
worry about the grade, however, because I saw how my views on politics changed drastically during and after taking the
class. If you could put yourself in my shoes and see how much I learned and became interested in politics,
you would definitely agree that I got my money’s worth out of that class. My professor might have thought that
my performance was average, but I know that it was worthwhile. I was satisfied with what I learned and how
I grew from taking this course, and my view wouldn’t have changed if I had made an “A” or even
a “D.”

Grades lead to competition among students, and a competitive nature in the classroom takes focus away from the real purpose
of academics: to learn. I am not saying that we should totally neglect grades. If my grades slip, it is
a good indication that I should work harder. If I receive a good grade, I should be pleased with my
performance, but there is no need for anyone else to be concerned with my grades. We shouldn’t make grades the
only factor in determining how much we improve while at Davidson. Grades are simply a professor’s measure of how well
we perform in a class. Although we hold the professors in high regard and value their opinions, we shouldn’t let
the opinions of one person dictate how we feel about our efforts and performance in the classroom. Besides, there is
so much more to learn in life than what is learned in the classroom. We have the unusual opportunity to
become involved in so much more than just academics, such as athletics, the Union, the SGA, Davidson Outdoors, and the
fine arts programs. We need to realize that the experience gained in these areas can be just as valuable as
the experience gained through academics. The entire Davidson community should focus on making the best of our experience here instead
of harping on the graded results.

ARE YOU NOW RSF f/ 7 , SIOUNTS VICTA SHNGRLL AS CALEUISIO

I began to re-think where I had been for all the years that she had associated with me. I was
immediately put on guard, assuming that I should tell this person my academic and personal history. But in my mind,
I knew that no matter how much detail I told, it probably wouldn’t be enough. Plus, why was I taking
the time to defend myself to someone who hardly even knew me, when I really wanted to be inside the
forum anyway? Incidents like that have happened more often than I initially anticipated. Sometimes to humor my discomfort I would
answer questions like, “how long are you in town?” with “for a semester,” which still eventually leads me into having
to explain why I am carrying a backpack across campus. I understand that some students are questioning my presence out
of pure concern, but I cannot deny the fact that some folks are simply nosy and mercilessly want to know
what my problem is, and why I didn’t graduate in four years like everyone else. Despite the personal steps I
took (e.g. living and working off campus) to further promote my looking ahead and outward, much of my time spent
on campus leaves me feeling very much out of place.

So what’s my purpose in telling you this? Primarily because I think there will be more students returning to Davidson
for an additional semester or year in the near future, and my hope is that these students’ additional time here
is just as or more rewarding than their past years. I don’t believe this is possible if other students are
constantly badgering them about their remaining student status. It is my hope that Davidson’s students will consider what Maya Angelou
tells us: “human beings are more alike than unalike.” Thus, just because a student does not graduate in four years
does not mean that he or she is any less of a person, it just means that their timing is
different from everyone else. Think about that, and try to be sensitive to that student’s standpoint.
