ALLEN DA: +L UX U BI

VOLUME LXXXVII

ORTA
MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1995

LIBERTAS

NUMBER 6

Wristbands draining PCC

In only fifth week of new alcohol policy

By CHAD WELLMON
Staff Writer

After only a month of parties on the Court, Patterson Court Council has spent over $1,000 on wristbands as part of the new alcohol policy. In the September 24 meeting of the PCC, Assistant to the Director of RLO Sandra Rhyne delivered the unexpected and troublesome news to the Council.

PCC President Steve Shames looked to Council members for possible explanations to the outrageous expenditure. Says Shames, “We can’t continue at this rate.” If this expenditure remains constant throughout the year, wristband costs will consume nearly one-third of PCC’s risk management budget.

PCC budget barrels toward financial ruin

Many Council members said that the wristbands are wasted by partygoers who finish the night having used two or three wristbands.

On First Night Down alone, almost 1,500 wristbands were distributed on the Court. Shames doubted there were 1,500 people on the Court in one night.

Shames explains that individuals attending Court parties must take responsibility by wearing their wristbands throughout the night if the PCC is to remain within its budget. Houses on the Court must also take responsibility through careful distribution of the wristbands.

Although individual responsibility might alleviate the amount of money spent on wristbands, the Council continues to seek an answer to the problem and is “looking at different things to do,” says Shames. Currently, the Council is searching for better prices at which to purchase the wristbands.

The discussion over the cost of the wristbands will continue this Sunday in hopes of an affordable solution.

Sadler sinks in student survey

By JOANNA JOHNSON
Assistant News Editor

Wilson Sadler, President of Sadler Enterprises, rents houses on Main Street and Lorimer Road to Davidson students. While former tenants say that Sadler often neglected his landlord responsibilities, more complain about their uncomfortable relationship with him.

LANDLORD SERIES

One former tenant stated, “Though the house was nice and the location was convenient, I have nothing good to say about our relationship.” Tenants recounted times when Sadler would enter their houses unexpectedly, even though they asked him to announce when he planned to show up.

One tenant recalls, “I was on edge all the time because we were afraid he was going to show up unexpectedly. He never announced when he was coming.” One former tenant remembered Sadler letting himself into their rented house early in the morning to complain about a car parked on the lawn the day before.

Residents complain that they were always on edge not only because Sadler would enter unexpectedly but because he complained about things that renters

See Sadler on page 2

inside
THIS WEEK

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

Paraphernalia from Sri Lanka.

INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL

By RENU BHATT
Staff Writer

“I’m just sort of overwhelmed,” sighed Ruth Pittard at the success of this year’s International Festival. Every room of the Union on Saturday was filled with exhibits, international students, national students, faculty and staff, as well as members of the community. Everyone came to experience the diverse whirl of culture that swept up Davidson’s campus.

Many countries were represented at various booths, including various European, Asian, African, and Latin American countries. Most of the booths were student-run, but faculty and staff members contributed innumerable things to each booth, such as ethnic posters, fabrics, food and cooking facilities.

Spectators mingled from room

See Fest on page 12

Stay in Control

Health Center promotes alcohol awareness and responsibility.

NEWS 2

Mating at Davidson

No, she means dating.

OPINIONS 8

Otis Day & The Knights

The $10,000 band of ‘95.

ARTS & LIVING 10

Close but not quite

Men’s soccer played three tough games.

SPORTS 13