4

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, APRIL 3, 1995

NEWS

SGA votes to support recycling

By Mac WOLFF
Staff writer

This past week the SGA overwhelmingly voted to support recycling at Davidson. A sum of $200 will be given to campus services and facilities to support the student-led recycling effort. The money, according to SGA Vice President Warren Buford, “will be primarily used to purchase large recycling bins for the Patterson Court houses.”

Buford discussed the matter with Patterson Court Council last Sunday to gauge support. House leaders at PCC also voted to support the recycling program. According to Buford, Patterson Court seems enthusiastic about the student-run program.

At SGA, representatives advised that the bins be large in order to successfully accommodate the large volume of recyclables at the houses. Concern was expressed over manpower, considering that the current plan places the responsibility of removing the recyclables on the house members themselves. Other representatives thought the easiest solution would be for houses to incorporate removal into their clean-ups.

After the bins have been successfully installed on Patterson Court, the program plans to branch out into halls. The effort hopes to place bins wherever there is support for campus-wide recycling.

SGA President Bill Gullan commented that attempts to secure institutional support for the program will continue.

WDAV holds spring member drive

By Amy WHITMIRE
Staff writer

Although asking WDAV listeners to purchase individual memberships for the radio station may not be the station’s favorite task, WDAV’s biannual membership drives provide crucial funding for the station’s budget. From Friday, March 24 to Sunday, April 2, WDAV held its Spring Membership Drive.

Program underwriting by businesses and corporations and single memberships comprise two-thirds of WDAV’s budget. Davidson College provides nine percent of the station’s budget, while the remaining portion comes from federal support.

Because Congress is considering a reduction in funds for public broadcasting, WDAV’s individual membership support is more important than ever before.

Legislation to decrease public broadcasting funds by 15 percent next year and 30 percent in 1997 has already passed the House of Representatives.

This legislation would cost WDAV $30,000 next year and $52,000 per year starting in 1997. The station’s goal for this membership drive is 1,700 memberships.

Station Manager John Clark hopes more individuals will want to purchase memberships at the end of the drive to help WDAV reach its goal and continue the classical music programming that many listeners enjoy.

Vote in the runoffs.

At WDAV’s 1995 Spring Membership Drive, staff and volunteers are kept busy. Here, Julian Adney does three things at once: program, announce, and make prank calls.

...And Should We?

April 7.

Can We Cure Disease, Prolong Life, or Create More Perfect People By Changing the Genetic Landscape?

These are likely areas of discussion during a 10:30 a.m. panel discussion in the Chambers Gallery, to be held in conjunction with the annual meeting of Davidson's Board of Visitors on Friday, April 7.

Students, faculty and staff are welcome to attend the 90-minute discussion on dramatic developments and substantive issues in the Life Sciences. Dr. Richard Brubaker '59, Medical Director of Mayo Medical Ventures at the Mayo Clinic, will moderate a panel that includes Davidson Professors Malcolm Campbell '84 (Molecular Biology), Rosemarie Tong (Medical Humanities), noted Harvard geneticist Dr. Richard Lewontin, and Dr. John Porter '81, Assistant Professor of Surgery and Chief of the Trauma Division at the Medical College of Ohio in Toledo.

Dr. Brubaker also will speak for about 30 minutes after a luncheon for the Board in the 900 Room. All members of the College community are welcome to hear his remarks, which will begin at 1:20 p.m. Seats will be available in the balcony.

CRIME REPORT

March 3 - $270 in cash was stolen from an office in Baker Sports Complex.

March 6 - A purse was stolen from an office in Baker. The purse contained $8 in cash and four credit cards.

March 11 - A CD player was stolen from a car parked in Baker parking lot. The estimated value is $400.

March 19 - A picnic table and umbrella were taken from the rear of the Commons next to the loading dock. The value is $200.

March 25 - A student was found in possession of a fake ID and was also intoxicated. The student was given a state citation.

March 29 - The Campus Police issued a warrant for the perpetrator of a misdemeanor breaking and entering at Baker Sports Complex.

Brandon Clarke
See, to recycle, how the young folks lay their heads together.

The Night

from page 3

“The first Take Back the Night at Davidson sprang from the realization [that as a committee] we had done a lot of good things, but we hadn’t touched the heart of the matter. We hadn’t touched the hearts of survivors of sexual assault,” says Carlson.

When asked what exactly aggravates the problem of rape on Davidson’s campus, Carlson responds, “I think that it involves both communication and alcohol, for sure. A lot of women at Davidson are assertive professionally as a student, but in their personal lives, they aren’t.”

Carlson adds, “We're not saying people should be expected to reject or withdraw from the social scene here at Davidson. It’s exciting to see the number of people who feel that they can integrate being socially and sexually responsible. But you must take precautions, and most importantly, trust your instincts.”

SGA TOPIC OF THE WEEK:

IMPROVEMENT OF COMMUNICATION BETWEEN SGA AND THE STUDENT BODY

Tuesday, April 4th at 9pm Union Conference Room

OPEN TO EVERYONE!