6 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, MAY 1, 1995

Week in Washington

Clinton calls for expanded federal powers in response to Oklahoma City tragedy

By ANDREA SHORT
Washington Week correspondent

With the nation still shocked and horrified by the bombing of the Oklahoma City federal building, President Clinton is seeking to prevent such incidents by strengthening current federal guidelines. Civil liberties organizations, however, are expressing skepticism about the need for, and the wisdom of, expanding the Justice Department’s power to investigate and monitor possible terrorists.

On Wednesday, President Clinton detailed his plans for new legislation. Less drastic than his initial plan, Clinton’s proposals did not include a revision of the guidelines that specify when federal agents may begin investigating suspects. Currently, agents cannot proceed with an investigation until “the facts or circumstances reasonably indicate.” Many expected Clinton to revamp these instructions to allow more proactive inquiries, but the Administration apparently sensed the political danger involved in giving unspecified and unsupervised authority to the Federal Bureau of Investigations. As a result, they backed away from the proposal.

President Clinton’s blueprint for tougher anti-terrorism legislation revolved around increasing federal manpower and resources. He advocated adding 1,000 federal agents and creating a new domestic counterterrorism office under the power of the Justice Department. Justifiable grounds for installing wiretaps, obtaining travel and financial records, and instituting other surveillance methods would also be broadened under President Clinton’s plan. Currently, only a handful of suspected federal offenses can justify surveillance. If Clinton’s proposals become law, however, individuals suspected of any federal felony could be subject to surveillance.

When dealing with bombs and other weapons capable of creating tragedy as devastating as that in Oklahoma City, the FBI could cooperate and combine resources with the military. Passing this tenet of President Clinton’s proposal would mean altering a policy that has been U.S. law for more than a century. The Posse Comitatus Act of 1878, which forbids the military from executing civilian law, was passed after the Civil War and Reconstruction eras. Clinton would create a narrow exception in the law to allow the armed forces to aid the FBI’s investigation of nuclear, atomic, and chemical weapons.

Another change suggested by the president would mandate “tagging” the raw materials used to make explosives. This would aid identification of the explosive after it has been detonated. Clinton has been unrelenting in his calls for tougher policy and legislation and has openly supported the death penalty as justice for individuals convicted of the Oklahoma City bombing. On 60 Minutes last Sunday, the President said, “If this is not a crime for which capital punishment is called, I don’t know what is.”

Sources Include: The April 24, 26, & 27 issues of The New York Times.

Dean Rusk

Mass killings in Rwanda jeopardize foreign aid

By GRAHAM ERNST
Dean Rusk adjunct reporter

Last Saturday, more than 2,000 members of the Hutu tribe died in a refugee camp in the South Rwandan village Kibeho when Tutsi government soldiers opened fire and a panic ensued. The episode began when refugees tried to break through the military perimeter surrounding the camp which lacked sufficient food and water for the 50,000 inhabitants.

In response to the news of the deaths at Kibeho, the Dutch government put its $30 million in aid on hold. United Nations officials criticized the Tutsi government for underestimating the death toll at Kibeho. Government officials, who originally placed the death toll at 300, said that it was difficult to count all of the bodies because there were so many different layers, and they could not estimate how many lay underneath the surface.

The scene was gruesome. Insects hovered over the layers of crammed bodies that were trampled in the stampede. This most recent incident is a harsh reminder of the genocide that took place a year ago when half a million people were killed.A million Rwandans died in less than three months of tribal warfare. Two months ago, 24 people accused of genocide last year suffocated due to extreme overcrowding in their prison. Prisoners continue to be held in inhuman conditions without any action by the U.N. The Tutsi government has ordered that all refugee camps be closed and that people return to their former homes. More than 200,000 Hutus await permission to return to their homes that they abandoned a year ago. While many hope that peace can eventually prevail when they return, there are no guarantees as 20 refugees were found dead in a jail north of Butare. U.N. trucks have already escorted more than 7,000 Hutu back to their homes. U.N. officials, however, lack the resources to ensure that all 200,000 will be safely returned. The news of the continued instability in Rwanda is likely to deter the two million Hutu refugees in Zaire from returning. Furthermore, nations such as France, Kenya, and Zaire, who favored the former Hutu government, are now content to stand idly by. One U.N. official called this latest incident a “big step back” in the establishment of a legitimate government in Rwanda. Sources include 4-24-95, 4-25-95, 4-26-95, and 4-27-95 issues of The New York Times.

The Davidsonian is looking for a Circulation Manager for next fall. If you are interested, call Craig Murphy at -6084. This is a paid position.

Perspective NOTES

Notes from the Charlotte Police Department

Crazed woman - A man reported that an unknown female was calling him every 45 minutes to tell him that he will be dead by the afternoon.

Drunk dolt - A man drank an excessive amount of alcohol and fell onto a glass table, which caused him some minor scratches and cuts. Soon after, the man “attempted to cut himself” with pieces of the broken table, at which time a friend called the police.

Frightening flashers - A woman was walking from her car to the mall when she saw a man sitting in his car with the driver’s door open. She noticed he was naked from his waist to his ankles. She reported she turned away but heard a car horn, which she believed was the man trying to get her attention again.
- Another woman told police that while she was standing on her front porch, a man going by pulled his penis out of his pants and showed it to her.

Desperate for a drink - Two suspects approached a man who was standing nearby with a case of beer. They asked him for a beer, and when he refused they began punching him. Another person jumped in to try to help the man and was also punched before the suspects took off.

-from the April 22, 1995 Creative Loafing

Hundreds protest police beating of teenager - Hundreds crowded into a church Saturday to assail police for beating a teenager and spraying him with tear gas during an arrest captured on videotape Tuesday. Pharon Crosby, 18,