THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1995

Some thoughts on baseball, political correctness, and insensitivity:

The World Series is over by now, but I want everyone to take away something else from it other than
knowing that if you properly parlay your corporate wealth into your baseball team you can win a World Series, or
that Gregg Maddux would have been the Greek god of pitching. After the millionaires went on strike, I decided to
stay away from baseball until 1998, when my hometown’s expansion team begins play. I, like much of America, was disgusted
by the greed, arrogance, and disrespect the players and owners showed the fans. And, the canceling of last year’s World
Series practically pulled the trigger on my love of baseball. But, last night, I found out the game does have
its good points, other than letting you use cool metaphoric clichés like “pulled the trigger.” After watching game three of
the World Series, I know now baseball’s prime use is to let you think. Here’s why:

The pitcher looks at the batter. The batter looks at the pitcher. The catcher signals. The pitcher agrees. The batter
gets out of the batter’s box to try some practice swings despite it being his 10,004th plate appearance. The batter
steps back in. The manager signals something to the pitcher obviously concerned about the extra practice the batter just took.
The pitcher finally throws the ball. The batter swings. And it’s foul! I know excitement like that is hard to
come by, but the viewer’s challenge is to utilize all that dead time. I did so during the four and
a half hour marathon that was game three and came to the following point: The Cleveland Indians’ mascot is racist.

Now you might be shaking your head and thinking “oh no, here’s another one of those people that 60 Minutes
interviews who marches in front of the stadium protesting a silly baseball mascot.” Well, frankly, I would. But, hear me
out. I know neither the Cleveland Indians organization nor their city is racist. In fact, I’m sure if there was
a Native American who batted near .300 for power, the Indians would sign him. It’s just different. To see why
Chief Wahoo is an offensive image, put yourself in the place of a Native American. A team is named after
your people. You come from a centuries-old society, full of splendor and culture. You are a proud people who fought
bravely for their land only to be pushed off by expansion and industry. Today, you are remembered through the name
of one of the best baseball teams in the country. And, your representative is Chief Wahoo. Look at him. His
biggest problem is not his massive overbite. He looks like a grinning fool, like something out of a Bugs Bunny
cartoon. I can easily understand why Native Americans find that offensive. Simply, it reinforces a 19th-century stereotype of “Injuns” as
an inferior people who deserved to be killed. It would be like naming a team the Rabbis and designing their
mascot as the main character from Fiddler on the Roof with more hair and a big Kosher pickle sticking out
of his mouth. If a team were to do that, wouldn’t popular conception of the Jewish people falsely and unfairly
change completely for the worse?

Overall, my point is that despite the best intentions people might have, insensitivity will be felt when not considering all
the varied targets of their message. Different people see things differently. I don’t understand why we maintain and cherish these
symbols when one group of people overwhelmingly finds it cruel and ignorant to do so. Names like the Redskins (no
explanation required) and cruel caricatures like Chief Wahoo serve no positive purpose. Perhaps clever Cleveland fans could not come up
with signs like, “WINdians!,” but would it take away from the excitement of the game if the team name was
changed to the Flaming Rivers or some other civic symbol? No, it would not. The fans would still have cheered
just as wildly after Eddie Murray’s game-winning single, along with some Native Americans.

Jeff Kent

Bonfires are fun

First of all, I’d like to start with a juicy tidbit of knowledge for all you faithful readers. According to
a couple of professors that have approached me, Jefe does not have an accent. Apparently, the first syllable in Spanish
words is never accented because the accent is understood. I suppose I should trust these professors because they did attend
school for about half as long as I have been alive, but I can’t help but be disappointed. El Jéfe
just looks so cool. When you just put Jefe, people come up and ask me who Geef is. That’s annoying,
so I’m gonna leave the accent. Sorry, Spanish speakers, but I cater to those who prefer to wallow in comfortable
ignorance and those who value surface appearances over truth. Uhh, those of you who like my articles, disregard that last
sentence.

Now down to the nitty gritty. I had a request from a student and occasional writer that we not run
a story about beer this week. First of all, I cannot understand anyone’s motivation for not wanting to read more
about the Nectar of Life. It’s...tasty, it provides fantastic art in the form of cool beer commercials, and it leads
energetic young pyros to do things like light a huge bonfire in the middle of the court. But since this
guy is a friend and because I can’t afford to alienate any prospective Opinions writers, I won’t mention beer anymore.
Now back to that fire. Whoever those young bucks were who triggered off that baby, I applaud you. That fire
on Saturday night was fun, warm, a real campus bonding point, and most importantly, it pissed off the authorities. Good
work. I don’t understand why anyone would be upset by a contained fire in the middle of Patterson Court. I
mean, you have a huge pile of wood and kindling in a dug-out patch just waiting to burn away. The
wood was originally put there to have a bonfire, so darn it, burn baby burn. A bonfire unburned is like
a feast uneaten. It’s not like it was a serious safety hazard or anything. From what I hear, bonfires do
get pretty hot and tend to burn people who stick body parts in them. But come on, give us students
a little credit. What kind of a moron would intentionally enter a bonfire? The police will probably make extravagant claims
about the fire's dangerousness, but don’t listen. I can just see two studly frat boys: “Hey Chaz, dude, I bet
I can like hang in the fire longer than you, man. Loser hasta shotgun this Schaefers Light.” Well, that’s not
a good example. I would most likely opt for self-incineration over drinking a Schaefers. For those of you who don’t
know, Schaefers is often referred to as “the chewable beer.” Winos won't touch this one—Red Bull, though taken from animal
excrement, outsells Schaefers. Oops, sorry Dom. I mentioned beer again. I failed. Shucks. On that note, I’m gonna close this
baby. I leave you with this message: spontaneous igniting of enormous, potentially deadly fires is not necessarily a bad thing.
Relax, the self-mutilation factor at Davidson is fairly low right now. You’d have to be really stupid and really intoxicated
to injure yourself at a bonfire, and I know only two or three people on campus that normally fall into
both those categories (unfortunately, they all live with me). Bonfires are fun. We want more bonfires.

Chris Frampton

The art of being bold

I’ve been here a long time, and I mean that. Some of you met me when you were prospectives—juniors in
high school type prospectives. And I like that. You know why? Because it means I am cooler than you. Not
just because I was a lousy student but also because I know what the bold typeface format is. Here is
an example, giving you some of my lessons learned.

Ceiling tiles: These tempting, juicy little obscure polymer filaments in the ceiling just beg to be broken. They practically scream
“Tear me out of the ceiling, you drunk pudger budger.” And who can resist? Like the sirens to the sailors,
lonely men, on lonely nights, will pull these things right out of the ceiling. Do not do this. You know
why? Because RLO does not like it when you do and will make you rearrange the furniture in storage. Not
because it needs it but because they do not like you.

Globe: You all know what a globe is. (It’s a ball with bumps on it that shows you where you
will live if you spin it really fast and put your finger on a random spot.) There is also a
big globe on the top of Chambers. Anyway, sometimes, if you are sneaky, you can get on top of the
globe. Don’t do this, either. The cops will not like you. When they don’t like you they stop giving you
rides in their fancy cars.

Pick-up lines: This will not work: “Hey, I wear underwear, you wear underwear. Let’s take it off and sleep together.”
But this may, “I really do feel for you. I am so sorry you got dumped. Would you like to
go somewhere quiet and talk about it? Yes. How about my room?” This may, “Want to see my room?” This
last one will only prove successful if you are already wanted. If you are a freshman guy you might as
well not even bother. None of it is going to work.

Bold face format: Basically this is a lazy way to write an article.

Coffee: OK. You all know what this is, but we just got this new Caribou Coffee shop thing and I
thought I would talk about it. Caribou will be popular at Davidson. You know why? Because we are all a
bunch of dorks who think we are older than we actually are. I know, every one of you dreams of
going to Seattle and sitting and discussing Paradise Lost over a nice warm decaf vanilla latte with skim milk and
a touch of sugar-free sweetener. I know you do.

Brueger’s Bagels: Well, it is official. We are getting one which officially makes the Davidson metropolitan area a college town.
A coffee shop, a Ben & Jerry’s and a Brueger’s. Look out Chapel Hill, we are going to start our
own music scene next and then it’s all official, you still have a cooler college town than we do. (Although
ours is much prettier and the people are much nicer.)

Kuykendall: No, this does not spell Kurkendall, but let him worry about it.

Is that a page? I think it is so I will stop boring you now. You can flush the toilet
and go do something productive like watch "Melrose Place" or maybe drink a beer.
