6. THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1995

Week in Washington

Budget packages promise change

By David Santschi
Washington Week Correspondent

Both the House and Senate approved similar budget plans last Thursday and Friday as President Clinton threatened to veto the
final Republican package. The House acted Thursday on its budget reconciliation bill, which combines ten separate spending bills into a
single federal budget. The 227-203 vote for the bill was highly partisan: only ten Republicans voted against the bill, and
only four Democrats supported it. A final vote on the Senate budget reconciliation bill came shortly after midnight on Friday.
After 38 separate roll call votes on specific items, the bill passed by the slim margin of 52-47. The Senate
was also sharply divided: no Democrats joined all but one Republican, Sen. William Cohen (R-MB), in voting for the bill.

The differences in the two bills will be worked out in a House-Senate conference committee. If a compromise bill is
approved by both chambers, it will be sent to President Clinton, who is certain to veto it. Both reconciliation bills
are enormous in their scope and complexity: the Senate bill is 1,949 pages long, and the House version runs to
1,754 pages. Despite differences on specifics, Republicans hailed what Stuart Butler of the conservative Heritage Foundation called “a structural change
in American government.”

The bills promise to balance the federal budget by 2002 by cutting $900 billion in federal spending over seven years.
Taxes would be cut by $245 billion, including a $500 child tax credit for families and a reduction in the
capital gains tax rate for investors. The Earned Income Tax Credit, which lowers taxes for families with incomes under $28,500,
would be reduced and its eligibility requirements tightened.

To generate savings, the bills would reduce Medicare spending by $270 billion over seven years by setting strict limits on
payments to doctors and hospitals and encouraging the elderly to use managed care plans and medical savings accounts. Welfare programs
and Medicaid would be turned over to the states, who would set eligibility requirements and benefits. Aid to Families with
Dependent Children, the main federal welfare program, would be eliminated, and Medicaid payments to states would be reduced by about
$182 billion. Students and parents would face higher interest costs on federal student loans, and child care assistance, school lunches,
and nutrition aid would be cut by both houses.

The chambers disagree on key issues, including raising Medicare eligibility and deductibles, student loan interest-rate subsidies, and allowing welfare payments
to teenage mothers. They also differ on whether to eliminate direct agricultural subsidies. The House version would amend the Constitution
to require a balanced budget by 2002, increase spending for prisons, and limit death row appeals. The Senate version would
increase anti-terrorism funding and impose strict limits on gifts by lobbyists.

Dr. Studmuffin?

ST. PAUL—Robert Jones says people have the wrong idea about scientists. They’re not all nerdy white guys with pocket protectors
and glasses held together with masking tape, he said. Some scientists lift weights. Some are people of color. Some win
Grammy Awards for their singing. Some are, well, studmuffins.

Jones, 44, a professor of plant physiology at the University of Minnesota, is one of the 12 scientists - one
for each month - who appear in a new calendar called “Studmuffins of Science.” Jones is “Dr. May.” Produced by
National Public Radio as a fund-raiser for the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the calendar is intended to
encourage young people to consider careers in science. Jones, reached last week in New York, where he is attending the
official unveiling of the calendar, said he participated in the project to explode the stereotype of the geeky scientist.

“I did this to change people’s perception of what scientists are,” he said. “They are normal people with lives outside
of the laboratory. Studmuffin is probably a misnomer. This is not about selling sex. But sometimes you have to use
shock value to get your point across.”

Sources include: October 27 of The New York Times and October 25 and 27 of The Wall Street Journal.

Dean Rusk Program

Quebec faces secession question

By Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

Today, an estimated five mil-One million Canadians living in Quebec will vote on whether they will stay Canadian. This is
not the first time Quebeckers have voted on whether to stay a part of Canada or not. Quebec, which is
80 percent French-speaking, has flirted with secession for a while. This is, however, the first time that the secessionists have
been predicted to win. Last week, to the surprise of many, polls began to show a slight separatist lead. Neither
the government nor the people of Canada expected this. The result was an immediate rush on the part of the
government to try to alleviate the situation. Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien has spent the last week appealing to Quebeckers
not to leave Canada. He has made multiple speeches in and around Quebec and has exercised for the first time
in his career the federal act allowing him to use prime time TV to address the nation.

Despite all of these and the various other appeals to Quebec, the vote still seems to slightly favor secession. As
a result of the possibility of Quebec gaining her independence, bank rates have risen by over one percent. There has
also been a flood of people trying to open accounts in Canadian banks on the outskirts of Quebec which will
not run the financial risks that those in Canada will face when they lose government backing. In the last few
days, there has also been a large number of Quebeckers attempting to get a Canadian passport which might be difficult
or impossible when Quebec secedes.

It wasn’t until a little over a week ago that the vote swung from about 60 percent opposed to secession
to just over 50 percent in favor. The reason is two-pronged: the separatist party has gotten a new leader and
the federalists have lost their cohesion. Until last week, the separatist leader had been Jacques Parizeau, an economics professor who
had little success in playing the game of politics. On October 9, however, Parizeau turned the campaign over to Lucien
Bouchard. Bouchard, whose party, the Bloc Quebecois, controls the second largest number of seats in Parliament, completely revamped and re-energized
the campaign for secession. Bouchard, who is a very popular public figure, has promised that an independent Quebec would be
able to keep the Canadian dollar, share a dual citizenship with Canada, and become an independent but integrated economy inside
Canada’s.

When one adds the bickering and disunity among the federalists over whether or not to make concessions to Quebec, it
becomes a little clearer why the polls have shifted in favor of the separatists. Many analysts are predicting that the
only way for the federalists to win the vote on Monday is to make major concessions to the separatists which
they have said they will not do. Whether they make the concessions or not and whether they win or not,
the separatists have had an impact on Canadian politics. The extent of that impact on international politics and economics is
not so clear.

Jones said students today are looking for role models. When he was growing up on a farm in Georgia, Jones
said, his role model was George Washington Carver. Jones even earned his doctorate on a George Washington Carver fellowship at
the University of Missouri. Jones was photographed in his laboratory and also at a health club. It’s the health club
picture showing him sitting shirtless on a workout bench that made the calendar. Sources: the Charlotte Observer October 25, 27.
He said he received no money for his participation in the calendar project and paid his own way to the
New York kickoff. The Economist, October 21. Taken from the October 22, 1995 edition of the Atlanta Journal.

You can bank on us! Earn up to $200 a month by donating life-saving plasma! New donors earn $30 today.
You can "bank" on us in 1995 to provide you with extra $$$. Visit our friendly, modern center and earn
cash while helping others.

Plasma Alliance “people helping people”
1511 Central Avenue at Pecan, Charlotte, NC 28205
333-0335
Valid ID with Social Security number required.
M-Th 6:30am-9:00pm
F 6:30am-8:00pm
Sa 7:30am-6:00pm
Su 7:30am-4:30pm
