6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Week in Washington:

Controversial issues plague Republicans in Congress

By ANDREA SHORT
Washington Week correspondent

As last week wore on, Republicans found that issues in Congress have only become more divisive. Wrestling with spending cuts,
tax credits, and welfare programs, House Republicans found themselves at odds with the Democrats, the Senate, and members of their
own party.

The Senate Finance Committee and its chairman, the ethically embroiled Senator Bob Packwood, grabbed the week’s early headlines. After a
weekend retreat on the Chesapeake Bay, committee members returned to Washington to announce their bipartisan commitment to cutting the federal
deficit. Senator John Breaux (D-Louisiana) commented that cutting the deficit “is [a problem] big enough for both of our parties
to work on at the same time.”

The Finance Committee backed its pledge with details: Packwood advocates cutting $700 billion in federal spending by 2002. This weighty
promise would necessitate drastic slashing of federally funded programs, but the committee feels that the deficit’s current growth demands attention.
For President Clinton and the Republican legislators who promised tax cuts during their campaigns, committing to deficit reduction would involve
tremendous political risk; however, openly opposing deficit-reducing legislation may also spell political suicide in a climate where voters are demanding
a halt to the upward-spiraling deficit.

Prioritizing deficit reduction puts the Senate committee at odds with the more conservative members of the Republican Party. Speaker Newt
Gingrich and his followers have already promised Americans $189 billion in tax cuts. But the week’s most surprising development happened
when 103 House Republicans banded together to alter the Contract with America’s central tax-cutting promise — the $500 per child
tax credit for families.

The group of dissenting Republicans hopes to modify the Contract promise, lowering the maximum income level from $200,000 to $95,000
per year; this change approaches President Clinton’s proposal to give tax credit to families making $75,000 or less. Lowering the
cut-off level would align the Republicans with the middle class and deflate the Democrats’ political rhetoric; however, few expect the
Republican leadership to compromise on this central issue. The GOP rebels asked the House Rules Committee to amend the rules
of debate so they could offer an amendment to change the $200,000 level.

Debate on how to use the newly saved money may be premature; no one has decided where it’s coming from
yet. On Thursday, highly controversial welfare legislation turned the House floor into a schoolyard screaming match. This broad-reaching welfare bill
attempts to radically restructure social programs affecting virtually every demographic category. The government would no longer award teen mothers cash
benefits, give additional money to mothers already receiving welfare, or spend federal money for abortions. The Republicans would give states
block grants to run school lunches, WIC, and AFDC programs. Groups cut off from all federal assistance include legal immigrants,
drug and alcohol addicts, and a large number of mentally and physically handicapped children.

The fractious bill, although dividing the House and inciting boos and personal insults on the floor, momentarily linked pro-life and
pro-choice groups who were both lobbying against the bill. A resolution prohibiting debate on individual amendments passed 217-211, but the
narrow margin revealed the deep rifts that this bill is causing within the House GOP.

Sources include the March 26th and 22nd issues of The New York Times and the March 23rd issue of The
Charlotte Observer.

Dean Rusk

Serbs shell Tuzla, breaking U.N. cease-fire

By GRAHAM ERNST
Dean Rusk adjunct reporter

Early last week, Bosnian Serb forces shelled the northern Bosnian town of Tuzla and looted U.N. weapons stockpiles, stealing mortar
equipment, anti-aircraft guns, and other heavy munitions.

This Serb attack came in response to a Bosnian government offensive against a Serb communications tower on Mount Majevica northeast
of Tuzla. This latest round of fighting in the former Yugoslavia all but ends the four-month-old U.N. cease-fire.

French U.N. peacekeepers offered no resistance to the Serb invaders as they ravaged through the U.N. weapons collection site at
Lukavica near Sarajevo. Among the munitions that the Serbs stole are the long-range mortar equipment that the U.N. confiscated in
February 1994 to prevent expanded air strikes.While the U.N. is authorized to sanction air strikes against the Serbs for raiding
the weapons facility, it is clear that the international community is content with simply containing the violence to Bosnia-Herzegovina and
has lost the will to enforce peace. As the Serbs and Muslims gear up for a renewal of all-out warfare,
the commander of the Muslim Bosnian army, General Rasim Delic, boasts that his forces are ready to take back Serb-occupied
territories which include 70 percent of Bosnia. General Delic has a standing army of 140,000 soldiers compared to the 85,000
armed Serb soldiers. However, the Serbs have a significant advantage in equipment because of their illegal trade with Middle Eastern
countries.

With a U.S. presidential race on the horizon, G.O.P. front runner Senator Bob Dole has been outspoken about lifting the
arms embargo on Bosnia and allowing the two sides to fight the war out on even terms. Speaker Newt Gingrich
has expressed his full support for the Senate Majority Leader on this issue. Secretary of State Warren Christopher fears that
this “war strategy” could eventually lead to the deployment of U.S. ground forces. Many in the press have also criticized
Dole for campaigning early on an issue on which he does not intend to follow up should he be elected
in 1996. Regardless, Dole and the Republican party have sought to decrease U.S. funding for U.N. peacekeeping missions. In addition,
current legislation seeks to decrease restrictions on presidential powers to deploy troops set forth in the War Powers Resolution, which
was passed in the wake of the Vietnam War.

As the Bosnian conflict nears its fourth year, Western Europe and the United States are at a loss to find
a negotiable peace. With last month’s indictments of Serb executioners and documented war crimes by the U.S. State Department as
early as the summer of 1992, it is becoming painfully obvious that this war will plague our consciences for many
years to come.

Sources include 3-22-95 and 12-5-94 issues of the New York Times; 5-16-94 issue of The Nation; 12-10-94 issue of National
Journal; 12-12-94 issue of Time; 1-7-95 and 12-10-94 editions of Congressional Quarterly Weekly Report.

MONDAY, MARCH 27, 1995 — The Davidsonian

ELSEWHERE

March 26, 1995

NOTES

Gennifer Flowers says Clinton certainly did inhale

New York— Gennifer Flowers knew
