THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1994

Students overwhelmingly support minors
Council for Academic Affairs receives thumbs up from students

By Andy PRESTON
Staff Writer

The Council for Academic Affairs distributed a survey before Fall break to poll student interest in minors at Davidson. Students
overwhelmingly supported minors, with 336 out of 349 people saying that Davidson should offer minors. Eleven people did not like
the idea, while two others had no opinion.

The survey also asked students what minors they would be interested in and if they would attempt to pursue a
minor. 255 students responded that they would be interested in a minor. Twenty-eight different areas were mentioned as minors of
interest. English, Psychology, Spanish, and Political Science were cited most frequently.

Students also said that the existence of minors would not have affected their choices of majors, with 234 saying no,
while 67 answered yes. 74 out of 109 sophomores, juniors, and seniors responded that they have already taken four or
more classes in an area outside their major.

Comments on the idea of minors ranged from strongly supporting the idea to disagreeing wholeheartedly. While many students believed that
minors would benefit the liberal arts education here at Davidson, one student wrote, “minors are contrary to the purpose of
a liberal arts education.” Another student proposed that “if minors were not offered, more concentrations should be proposed and adopted.”

Many students also believed that adding minors would add to the appeal of Davidson for prospective students. The Council for
Academic Affairs stresses that minors are not meant to eliminate the existing concentrations here at Davidson. While the concentrations are
interdisciplinary, the minors would be in the study of only one discipline.

The proposal will stress that students may choose only one minor or concentration. There would be no double minoring or
combining a concentration and minor. Finally, minors would be optional for each department, meaning that even if the proposal is
accepted, each department could decide not to offer a minor.

Mock DWI arrest emphasizes theme of Alcohol Awareness Week — Stay in Control

By Kerry BROPHY
Staff Writer

On Monday night an unexpected siren sounded at the Union Outpost as Davidson Police Officer David Harding pulled two Davidson
students over during a mock DWI arrest.

Part of Alcohol Awareness Week, the event was designed to demonstrate specific tests involved in DWI arrests and emphasize the
ensuing dangers of drinking and driving. Officer Harding participated in the simulation with two student volunteers.

Harding began the mock arrest by asking the driver, Bo Craig, to disclose his license and registration and step out
of the car. Subsequently, Craig recited his ABCs into a breathalyzer machine used to provide police with an estimated alcohol
content level. Tests concluded when the impaired driver attempted to walk in a straight line and count to twenty-five while
holding his head back. Finally, Harding formally arrested Craig and detained him in the police car.

Harding said, “There’s no need to drive drunk anywhere, especially on this campus” because of Davidson’s small size and centralized
party scene. Craig confirmed Harding’s comments, stating, “Even though I feel that drinking and driving is not that"Big of a
problem on this campus, it’s still important for students to learn the dangers of driving under the influence.” Dr. Art
Flagg, the event’s coordinator, stressed the need to educate youth on the potentially fatal consequences of drinking and driving. He
highlighted the importance of helping students to “party smart” and make responsible decisions in order to save themselves and others.
Moreover, Flagg affirms that drunk driving not only poses a threat to those who drink, but is a potential danger
for friends and bystanders as well. He urges students to learn their limits and recognize possible hazards before they occur.

Responsible drinker leaves beer can floating in a Homecoming weekend puddle.
Rob Kosicki

Flagg concluded the mock DWI arrest with the following words to the assembled crowd, “You’re all so young. We don’t
want to lose any of you.”

Convo from page 1

ments for faculty departments, eight endowments to support faculty and students, and 53 new book funds. President Kuykendall spoke and
again thanked “the remnant of the righteous” who attended convocation and expressed his gratitude to all those who made the
campaign possible.

After being introduced by Kuykendall, John Brademas, President Emeritus of New York University, spoke about the responsibility of each senior
to “advance personal causes but to serve the wider society, largely through politics.” He said he stresses politics because of
his experience with it and his knowledge that “there is such criticism and skepticism about politics in general.” He feels
that politics is the mode through which “a lively democracy most effectively performs, and only through the give and take
of politics can we face the challenges before us.”

The Goodwin-Exxon Awards, presented by Dean of Students Tom Shandley, went to Ben Kinnaman of the sophomore class, Warren Buford
of the junior class, and Beth Lindsey of the senior class. The Alumni Association Award to the sophomore who finished
his or her freshman year with the highest grade point average in the class went to Amy Catherine Whitmire. The
Thomas Jefferson Award for excellence in teaching was presented to Senora Magdalena Maiz-Pena of the Spanish department and Named Professorship
was given to Professor Al Mele of the philosophy department.

Project Life is sponsoring an ice cream study break, Wednesday, October 18 at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Treat Yourself for Homecoming!
Sculptured Nails * French Manicures * Pedicures * Tanning Booth

At The Duchess we offer you a day of stress-free pampering.
Tanning Special: 10 visits for $33.00
New addition to our store: Facials by Peggy

CONNIE AND MICHELLE: Full Set of Nails for only $40.00 (thru February)
Located at the Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St., Cornelius - (704) 892 - 7030

New Age HAIR DESIGNERS
A full service salon for men and women
Come in for any of our many services: cuts * perms * hair-coloring * manicures * pedicures
Right now, Davidson students and faculty receive 10% off all retail items with a school I.D.
We now carry a new line of retail products by Abba. Also select from a line of Paul Mitchell, Matrix,
Logic, Nexxus, Sebastian, and Goldwell hairstyling products.
Southlake Shopping Center
Next to Harris Teeter
Cornelius, NC 892-3067
