THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 20, 1995

Tuition increase is less than expected
By RANDY HARTWELL
Staff Writer

Though no one likes to see college costs rise, next year’s tuition increase, from $22,534 for the 1994-95 school year to $23,990 for 1995-96, as President Kuykendall said in his February 13 letter to Davidson students and their parents, “represents the lowest percentage increase since 1977.” The 6.5% augmentation is a far cry from the eight to nine percent rates many private colleges and universities charged in the 1980s, when costs rose and federal funding dropped. Vice President for Business and Finance Bob Sutton says the relatively small cost elevation has “two motivations.” The first, as he told the Charlotte Observer in a February 26 front page story on tuition hikes, is to make every effort not “to price middle-class families out of a Davidson education.” The other is that “tuition ought to be a market-driven figure.” With a national backlash against high college costs, administrators realize that in order not to alienate their middle-class clientele and to competitively vie for students, tuition must be kept in check.

Cambridge Associates, Inc., a consulting firm that conducts national surveys of institutions, ranks Davidson far ahead of its competition. In a study of 111 private colleges and universities, Davidson places 72, meaning 71 other selective colleges are more expensive. Although the percent increase is small, “the issue,” says Sutton, “is not how much it increases, but how much is it?” Sutton says four factors influence the Board of Trustees’ decisions on college costs. The first is “a deep interest that our charges don’t adversely affect the ability of most Americans to come to Davidson.” The second factor is “how our charges stack up with other private colleges and universities across the nation.” The third is “how we stack up to our regional peers”; and the fourth concerns a “fairness to existing students.”

Write for The Davidsonian. Call Mary Clare, Jeff, John, or Matt. -2148.

By JOANNA JOHNSON
Staff Writer

The Student Health Services Advisory Committee was formed by Dr. David Staton, Director of the Counseling Center and Health Facility, to evaluate student health services on campus. The ad hoc committee was established after student concerns were expressed last fall through the SGA. Five members compose the committee: Lucian Dervan ‘98, Debbie Liverman ‘96, Assistant Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano, Professor of Biology Dr. Donald Kimmell, and Dr. K.D. Weeks ‘69 from Presbyterian Hospital in Charlotte. Staton hopes the committee will help “evaluate the Health Facility in an impartial and substantive way ... look at and assess our current health services and make recommendations to improve or enhance those services.” The committee will have the chance to meet with members of the Student Health Services staff and to tour the facility. Weeks will evaluate the Health Center’s equipment and services.

Many students have complained that at the Health Center physicians provide too little of the actual care students receive. The health facility currently has a contract with the Davidson Clinic to provide physicians’ assistance care from 1:30 to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. In addition, a physician is on call after hours and on weekends. The committee will spend this spring evaluating the facility, with the intention of implementing changes next fall. Students will eventually be asked to evaluate their experiences at the health facility.

David Staton.

Committee formed to evaluate Student Health Center

New Union Board
By CARRIE BLACKBURN
Special to The Davidsonian

The weekend before Spring Break, February 24-26, the new Union Board held a retreat at Black Mountain to formulate their strategy for the upcoming year. Union staff members Union Director William Brown, Assistant Director of Programs Sherry Malushizky, and Assistant Director for Operations Mike Goode helped lead the board. Program Advisor Molly Johnson comments, “I thought it was very productive in teaching them a little more of what to expect of what their position will be. Brown led a session on the history of the Union, which helped them see what happened before them and where they can go. I hope the retreat will serve as a startingHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

point that will continue throughout the year.” The board worked on getting to know each other, building group skills, and brainstorming for upcoming events. Between planning sessions, they had plenty of free time to explore or just to bask in the sun. Films Chair Matt Foree comments about the retreat, “I met people I wouldn’t have met otherwise. We sat down for a long time and wrote down plans for the rest of the semester, which got us in gear.” Co-curricular Vice President Martin Young also feels the weekend was successful both as a bonding experience and for setting specific goals for the Union and individual committees. Young says, “I am excited personally because there is a mood on campus that things are going to change. There is an excitement in the air, and the Union plays such a big part of that and can tap into it.” Young, together with Union Board President Morgan Perry and Social Vice President Katie Schwab, are dedicated to improving interaction with other campus organizations. Meetings have already been set up between Perry and the presidents of SGA and more people together as organizations work together instead of competing to attract students. Recent successes with such cross-programming include co-sponsorship of bands on Patterson Court and coordinating big weekends (Homecoming, Midwinters, and Spring Frolics). The Union wants to work toward increased participation. Young says, “We provide a lot for the community that people do not take advantage of. We need to work on attendance and publicity.” The new Union Board was selected after a stiff competition, which had officers narrowing the applicant pool. Students from page 1 not being on these committees, according to Gullan, is that “confidential matters are discussed, such as personnel, tenure, and salary.” Dean of Students Tom Shandley and Gullan have been asked to hammer out the details about student representation on the other three committees. Gullan says, “Since we do not have time for a long and comprehensive process of selection for this first year, we are going to have an application and interview process, which will begin immediately.” The deadline that has been set for the representatives “dictates that [Shandley and Gullan] act quickly while still maintaining the integrity and openness of the process.” Gullan hopes that the students on the committees will be the “glasses through which the trustees see campus life” and that the trustees will have a “clearer vision of campus life through this representation.” He believes that “more input from those who are on campus almost all the time can only aid the trustees in their decisions.” Warren Buford, SGA Vice President, sees student representation as a “necessity” for a school of Davidson’s size to ensure “complete representation.” FOR A GOOD TIME, CALL THE DAVIDSONIAN. -2148. NationsBank. Jennifer Hauser, Affairs (Chambers 116). AT DAVIDSON The Economic, Ethical, THE NATIONSBANK/KEMP SCHOLARS PROGRAM Rising juniors and seniors at Davidson are encouraged to apply for the NationsBank/Kemp Scholars Program for 1995-1996. The program provides $3,000 in support of independent study, travel, and research. NationsBank/Kemp Scholars work independently with faculty supervisors on a project of their own design throughout the year. with supervising independent research projects in a meaningful way. The program provides opportunities the following summer for internships, further research, and travel before writing a final report on their project. In addition, they participate in an interdisciplinary seminar which links their research. They also are expected to present their findings. The 1994-1995 scholars, their projects, and their supervising faculty are: John Doe, “The Rebirth of Islam in Former Soviet States” (Dr. Tong); Eric Rosenbach, “The Rebirth of Eastern European Economies” (Dr. Weber); and, Gautam Srinivasan, “Political Leadership and Educational Reform in the American South” (Dr. Kazee). The selection committee for the NationsBank/Kemp Scholars Program consists of the Dean of Faculty/VPAA, the chair of the Department of Economics, the director of the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies, and a representative of NationsBank. Applications are available in the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 116). Completed applications are due by May 1. For further information, contact the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs.

---