THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1995 15

Men’s Lax comes up on top against Elon
By Rich GLENN
Sports writer

The men’s lacrosse team showed some pride Sunday.

MEN'S LACROSSE

With the temperature nearing 80 degrees, the team hit the field with just ten players, the minimum needed to play a game. That meant each person was going to be running for four 20-minute quarters. Elon jumped out to a quick 2-1 lead, but an explosive third quarter allowed Davidson to pull ahead, and the team was able to sustain a two-goal lead for the remainder of the game. With some great play from goalkeeper Brian Brown and midfielders Dave Farrar and Jeff Scherer, the team pulled out a 7-5 victory. Shreve Arial, Andrew Cole, and Matt Bramhall added the other goals. On the defensive side, Scott Burkhardt, Billy Roberts, and player/coach Sean O’Neill stymied the Elon attack. This victory means a lot to the team, as it is the first victory in over two seasons. For Farrar and Scherer, the heart of the team, it is their first victory since their high school careers. The team has one remaining game where it will look to put together the first two-game winning streak in club history.

Men’s Tennis
By Scott TONIDANDEL
Staff writer

The Davidson men’s tennis team had the opportunity to improve its seeding in the conference tournament last week as they took on conference foes Appalachian State, UTC, and Furman. On Thursday, the Cats traveled to App. State for the first away conference match of the year. Davidson continued to excel at doubles as they once again took the doubles point. The Cats won at the number 1 singles position but were unable to convert on any of the other matches. The final score was 5-2 in favor of Appalachian. Davidson badly needed to regroup as they played UTC on Saturday. The Cats won the doubles point to jump out to a 1-0 lead. They started poorly in the singles and fell behind early in many of the matches. Unlike in the previous match against App. State, the Cats were able to come back. Davidson won four of the six singles matches to come away with a 5-2 victory. The following day, Davidson had to face off against Furman. Davidson had not beaten Furman since 1973. Both teams were very evenly matched. Furman has four freshmen compared to Davidson’s three. Once again, the Cats played well to take the doubles point. In the singles, two of Furman’s freshmen won at the number 1 and number 3 singles positions. Furman also came away with a victory at number four singles. Davidson needed to win the remaining three matches in order to win. All three of Davidson’s players were freshmen, and they were all in the third set. Freshman Ted Kaplin overcame a one-set deficit to win at the number 5 position. After dropping the second set, freshman Jon Pastel dominated in the third to win at the number 6 position. Freshman Brandon Clarke was the last match on the court. Clarke had lost the first set but came back to win the second. The third set was very close, but Clarke was able to pull out the victory, giving Davidson a 4-3 win over Furman. This win improved Davidson’s conference record to 2-1. The Cats will next face UNC Greensboro on Wednesday."First two games, but we rebounded with our win in the afternoon,” said Potter. “Today the team showed a great deal of pride in wearing the Davidson jersey,” Priestley said. With just a little bit of luck, Davidson could have gone 3-0 Saturday, but the team has to be happy with the way they played. “This tournament really showed how far Davidson Rugby has come. In the past, we would never have been able to compete with those big schools, but now we are competitive with the schools that are 10 times as big as us,” said club organizer Jeremy Potter.

Rugby will be back next fall, but the team will be missing some of the players who have brought it to the level it is at right now. Potter, Shelburne, Kessler, Callahan, and especially Priestley have been essential in improving the team. They will definitely be missed, but with a crop of enthusiastic younger players, the team should be able to maintain the success they achieved this year.

B-ball from page 14

The play was almost the exact same type of injury that the Davidson second baseman suffered two years ago. This weekend, the Wildcats had some late-inning heroics of their own. Jeff Andrews won the first game with an RBI single in the bottom of the ninth inning. He scored Rhett Ingerick, who reached third after hitting a looping line drive that was misplayed by the center-fielder.

Georgia Southern opened the scoring in the first off starter Mordecai Stolk, who tossed a marvelous game, allowing just the one run on only three hits in 7 2/3 innings. Pollard finished up and got the win. Also for the Wildcats, Drew Van Culin’s bases-loaded walk drove in a run, and Gus Quattlebaum drove home Brian Penny in the fifth.

In the second game, Pollard went the distance, allowing only the one run on four hits over seven innings. Penny gave Davidson all the offense it needed in the third with a two-run home run, his fourth of the year. The Wildcats added three more runs in the fifth with Penny picking up another RBI.

Cooke said that despite the sweep against the conference’s best team and the tough loss Sunday, he didn’t think the club’s attitude would be affected too much heading into the final stretch of the conference schedule. “I think inertia in baseball is a little overrated,” he said. “When you play 50 (games), you just strap them on again tomorrow. You don’t have to sit around and wait a week to play again.”

The Wildcats next play Tuesday at Winthrop, before heading to Duke on Wednesday. The team returns home for an Easter weekend series against Marshall.

The deciding match involved freshmen from both schools. Davidson had a couple of chances to even the score at 5-5 in the third set, but the Furman player was able to hang on as Furman won the match 4-3.

Write for Sports. Call Schoon. -2148.

Looking For A Summer Job??? SO ARE WE!!! Carolina Pool Management needs Lifeguards, Swim Coaches, and Swim Instructors. Summer Positions available in the Charlotte area. For More Information: 704-362-0748

PRE-LAW SOCIETY invites you to an evening with the Chief Judge of the Fourth Circuit United States Court of Appeals, Samuel Ervin III Tuesday, April 11, 1995 7:30 pm Chambers Gallery