THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 1995

Crazy Cats Crazy fans want more company

By Joe Beach & Jason Burt

Welcome back to school, hoops maniacs. We hope your Christmas break was restful, ‘cause now it’s time to get CRAZY for the ‘Cats. Both teams have had their troubles lately, but Monday, January 23 is your chance to come on down and help them turn things around in the second doubleheader of the season. The Lady Cats face off against Georgia Southern at 6:30 p.m. and are immediately followed by the men’s match-up against Appalachian State. Also, make plans now to attend the men’s game against Marshall on Saturday, January 28. Show up in your colors and wail like a banshee.

With the important information out of the way, we’d like to take a few paragraphs to cover two important topics. First off, now is the time to clarify the situation concerning the seating in the Crazy Cats section of Belk Arena. The fundamental goal of this club is to support the men’s and women’s basketball teams. In order to achieve this goal, we encourage all Davidson students to attend home basketball games. No one is, or ever should be, excluded.

Two months ago many of you bought club t-shirts. Part of the deal was that you would receive preferred seating in return for wearing the shirt to home games. This deal has not changed. There is one addition, however. Due to the fact that these are prime seats (and it looks really bad if they are not filled for a game), you MUST arrive at the game more than 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time in order to guarantee that you will get a ticket to this section. After this time, the tickets will be given to any students on a first-come, first-serve basis. If you are going to be unavoidably late, please call either Burt (-6827) or Joe (-6627) and a ticket will be reserved for you.

The next subject is far more important. We want to thank each and every Davidson fan who showed up and cheered their hearts out at the Davidson-UNCC game on December 17. Coach McKillop told us after that game that Belk Arena had been turned into a “house of horrors.” Only at the Southern Conference finals last year have we ever seen Davidson fans cheer like that. Our challenge to you, as Davidson College students, is to keep up the intensity. We have spoken with many people who openly doubt that you will. Come help us prove them wrong.

For some reason, Davidson students have a reputation for being the lamest fans in the Southern Conference. I have been to games this year at ETSU and Furman, and I was amazed. Nobody heckled, there were no “here we go Paladins” or “DE-FENSE!” cheers. In short, they were lame. While at a Harlem Globetrotters game in Chapel Hill, I was able to speak with current Globetrotter and former ETSU stand-out Trazel Silvers. He told me that he remembered me and my loud-mouthed companion at Davidson games. He could even remember some of our more clever insults. Now if just two people were able to get inside the head of one of the Southern Conference’s best, imagine what an impact a crowd like the one we had at the UNCC game will make.

As fans and students at Davidson, we have an opportunity to affect the game as it is played on the court. By our presence and noise, we encourage our team and intimidate our opponents. By our absence and silence, we embarrass our team and energize our opponents. Join with us, and turn Belk Arena into the Southern Conference “House of Horrors.”Photo by Rob Kosicki

Client Piay helps defend another national title for UVA.

ATTENTION SOPHOMORES: Applications are now being distributed for the Edward Crosland Stuart Scholarship Program. Stuart scholars receive grants of $10,000 for the junior year, renewable for the senior year, plus funding for an internship during the summer between the senior and junior years. See Brenda King in Chambers 111 if you are interested. Applications are due February 6.

Men’s Basketball
Northern Division
Davidson | ETSU | Marshall | App. St. | VMI

Southern Division
W. Carolina | UT-C | Ga. South. | Citadel | Furman

Women’s Basketball
ETSU | Ga. South. | App. St. | Furman | UT-C | Marshall | W. Carolina | Davidson

Basketball earns 2-1 conference record

Men’s continued from page 14

Clearly has the talent to do it. But that effort has partially been slowed by too many weapons, including Quinn Harwood, George Spain, and the still-developing freshman Ray Minlend.

“It’s one thing to have the ability to do it, it’s another to have the poise to do it,” McKillop said. “It takes experience to do it.... It’s a luxury to have four guys that you know you can go to, but you need consistency to develop that ability.”

Saturday, Williams, now almost fully recovered from an ankle injury that forced him to sit out three games over the break, threw in 20 points to lead the team. But it was Minlend that scored six points during a key 8-0 second-half run to put some distance between the Wildcats and VMI.

While recognizing that he was expected to become the main man on this squad, Williams takes the team approach to the situation, saying, “If it takes five points from me or 25 points for us to win, I have to accept that.”

What everyone hopes will be another 13 out of 14 streak, or better, continues tonight at home against Appalachian State and Saturday against Marshall. Davidson is currently tied atop the Northern Division of the Southern Conference with East Tennessee State and Marshall, all with 2-1 records.

On Jan. 14, the Wildcats opened conference play with an impressive road win against ETSU. So with the loss to Furman perhaps serving as a wake-up call, the team heads into the rest of the league conference confident of its ability.

Earlier in the week, Williams said, “We’ll start a new season - Saturday (against VMI). By the end of the season, that one loss will look spectacular against 13 wins, and that’s what we’re aiming for.... We’ve had our lapse for the season. Our focus is to come out and dominate, not just play hard. We think we can.

“You can never be happy losing this many games. But what’s to say we have to lose another game? What’s to say we have to have as good a record as last year to be a better team. We need to stop making comparisons. I really think that by the end of the season we’ll be proud of what we’ve accomplished.”

THE RAFTERS RESTAURANT

THE RAFTERS RESTAURANT HAS NEW MANAGEMENT. COME BY AND CHECK OUT THEIR NEW MENU AND NEW ATMOSPHERE. The location is still the same, but the service, the atmosphere, and the menu are new and improved. Rafters is great for parties, luncheons, and meetings.

NEW HOURS OF OPERATION:
SERVING LUNCH TUESDAY-FRIDAY AND SUNDAY FROM 11:00 A.M.-2:00 P.M.
SERVING DINNER THURSDAY-SATURDAY FROM 5:00 P.M.-10:00 P.M.

663-7322
761 NORTH MAIN STREET
MOORESVILLE