THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1995

Students tell Holmes to take action on
By Adam Hickey
Staff Writer

Desperate for student guidance, the Student Advisory Council (SAC) to the Director of Residence Life conducted a survey of 231 students and obtained mixed results on issues ranging from renovations to policy changes.

“We wanted to gauge the opinions of students on critical residence life issues that we need to make decisions on,” said junior Sara Beth Hamlin, Co-chair of the council.

Divided into two parts, the survey first asked students to decide from a list of reforms which three they would most like to see made. The top three choices were cable T.V. in residence hall rooms, washing machines in residence halls, and better lighting in rooms.

The second part of the survey was free-response. It concerned policies and services the Council thought students might feel strongly about. Students were also asked to answer questions concerning upcoming renovations in the Sophomore residence halls. They had to state whether they would still use washing machines if they were coin-operated or if they would take advantage of toilet-paper dispensers.

Consensus was reached on some issues. Students say they want to be allowed to remain on campus after 5 p.m. on graduation day, with 119 out of 129 responses favoring such a policy change. Students also gave general approval to continuing the supply of Tylenol and condoms: 131 out

Registration process proposed for campus groups
By Will Bradshaw
Staff Writer

All campus organizations will have to be registered with the Union, if a new college policy which will be reviewed by the Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) on November 14 is put into effect.

The policy, which was introduced by William Brown, the Director of the Union and coordinator of student activities, is designed to make it easier for the Union to keep track of organizations on campus and to provide clearer pathways for student organizations to get support from the college, according to Brown.

“For years organizations have existed in limbo,” Brown says. “We have left it up to students to swim on their own and figure it [how to get funding and recognition] out. Over a period of years in conversations with many people, we decided this was another way to help people. We are trying to take a much more active step in helping them (student organizations) be successful.”

This new policy would require an annual registration process that would happen in the spring. This would let the Union keep track of what organizations were in existence, and what students were in leadership positions within the organization.

“People I’ve talked to have been very positive. SGA and student leaders feel like it’s a real help to them. ... We want to communicate,” Brown says.

However, there will be some conditions for registration. The organization’s officers must be current full-time students. The goals of the organization cannot violate the Constitution or North Carolina law, nor can individuals profit. An organization can do nothing that recklessly or intentionally endangers other people.

When asked how the registration policy would deal with Patterson Court, Brown said he was unsure.

“They (the fraternities and eating houses) have a pretty formal relationship to the college. Whether we would simply have the PCC send a list of officers and a statement which would register them or have them do it individually, I’m not sure. There is already a very good process authorizing their existence. Whatever we do, it will not be complicated,” Brown said.

Steve Shames, President of Patterson Court, said he was unconcerned about the new policy having any kind of detrimental effect on Patterson Court and saw the new policy as a good one.

“It will be nice to be able to have a reference and a list of officers of organizations so people know what is going on,” Shames said. “There are some small problems with wording that need to be worked out to make sure it is clear, so there can be no interpretation contrary to what William is trying to get across.”

According to Brown, there will be a handbook printed in two to three weeks that outlines this new policy, in addition to providing a registry of campus leaders and other policies and procedures dealing with student life and use of space on campus.

“This new policy will give new organizations an initial contact. We had a photography club that was started by a couple interested students. One asked, ‘What do I need to do to create this organization?’ Now I would give them a handbook and say, ‘Here’s how you get started.’ Before it wasVery muddy and awkward,” Brown says. Of 147 students favored continued availability. Not all students who filled out the survey answered each question. Because of this, all issues do not have an equal number of responses. Answers to questions concerning “cleanliness,” “mechanical problems,” “timely responses,” and “routine checks of senior apartments” were inconclusive. A small majority of students approved of making lottery numbers conditional on previous years’ results, with 43 of the 85 responses supporting the proposal. Students indicated a desire for more washing machines in residence halls, but indicated that they would not use coin-operated ones. Said one student, “NO, we already pay a laundry fee in our tuition.”

Hamlin points out that the RLO does not receive any money collected through the laundry, and it would have to be compensated in some way for costs incurred by adding new machines. Hamlin conceded that some of the survey results are misleading. While 98 of 131 responses favored more co-ed living facilities, Hamlin is reluctant to misinterpret this as a mandate to integrate residence halls. “Maybe we shouldn’t have asked that question. I don’t know where to go with it. . . . Students want more interaction, but we don’t know in what venue,” she said.

In response to the results of the survey, Director of Residence Life Kurt Holmes stated, “I’m not surprised. [But] It does help back up some of what [the council] has decided.”

Victorious. See stories on page 1 and page 16.

Though he feels the survey doesn’t provide all the answers, Holmes stated it “lets us know where to ask more questions.” “Things which are small in scope we can respond to,” said Holmes, indicating that no immediate action will be taken on the more major issues involved. He says he will not ignore the findings. “I can promise [they] will be a part of the [upcoming] decisions,” he says. Hamlin and fellow co-chair Dave Derrick are scheduled to meet with Holmes to discuss the survey’s meanings before the whole council meets again in mid-November. Hamlin expressed gratitude to those students who took part in the survey, but cautioned, “Don’t expect immediate results. We need to talk about [the implications] again.”

Rob Kosicki

Drinking from page 1

which would take students to the Korner Pub, Waffle House, and other establishments they often frequent when drunk. The committee is well aware that several legal and financial issues must be overcome to establish such a program. The committee will also ask that tap-times be rolled back to two a.m., the latest any establishment can sell alcohol in North Carolina. The trustees denied this request last Spring. The committee will also ask that tobacco products be sold in the Outpost, believing that some students want to smoke when they drink but have no cigarettes with them. The committee will encourage the establishment of Students Against Drunk Driving which might assume implementing the committee’s recommendations. Longer Outpost hours, a greater variety of food, and an increase in the Outpost budget to buy more movies are some other recommendations. The committee would also like the Union to offer programs that run later into the night.

Raising awareness was another issue for the committee. Drunk driving laws have made the penalties for DWI much stricter and serious. The committee fears students are not aware of this and that if they were aware, they would be less likely to drink and drive. The committee would also like the granting of off-campus living privileges to be contingent on attendance of a workshop on drunk driving given by the Campus Police. The committee has stated that “it is definitely not the case that this was just an attempt to get later tap-times.” “In the end drunk driving boils down to a choice made by a drunk student. We aim through this to make that choice less frequently, as well as to provide reasons to choose not to do it,” the committee said.

Student pruners

Parking

If you want to get from to start here.

Faculty Parking — Independent Educational Services

We will be visiting Davidson College November 16 & 17

Want to teach? Consider independent private schools! IES works with over 500 schools nationwide, many of which seek the energy and diversity of recent college graduates to fill their faculty vacancies. IES is the only nonprofit teacher placement organization. There is no charge to students! For more information contact your career office or call 800-257-5102. Our E-mail address is TeachIES@aol.com.

353 Nassau Street, Princeton, NJ 08540, 800-257-5102

2288 Union Street, San Francisco, CA 94123, 415-292-4175