THE DAVIDSONIAN

Movie Review

Assassins should be shot

© By Ep AcLe

Movie Critic

I like action flicks. This can be an embarrassing thing to admit after having graduated from junior high almost eight years ago, but there’s no getting around it. Something about the loud explosions and minimalist dialogue still appeals to me. I don’t care if it’s Sergio Leone’s The Man With No Name Trilogy (the final film, The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly, being as close to perfection as any film can ever be) or even that mid-80s classic Remo Williams: The Adventure Begins (presumably it never ended since that was the only film ever made with my buddy Remo). If there’s something that hasn’t been done before, or if the film at least laughs at its own absurdity, I can appreciate that.

Unfortunately, Assassins is just about as tedious as they come. What a snoozer! It’s a real shame, because this film has an action pedigree that any true aficionado can appreciate. Sylvester Stallone, who’s always fun to laugh at, plays an assassin who wants to retire. Antonio Banderas, the title character of Desperado (which I thought was one of the summer’s better films), is the young upstart who wants to kill Stallone so that he can be the best. Julianne Moore, who was great in Short Cuts, plays the token woman-in-peril needed for every action film. Best of all, however, Richard Donner directed the film. His first two Lethal Weapons, spectacles of fast, frenetic action sequences and sharp wit, single-handedly resurrected the buddy film. Instead of turning out a film up to those standards, he wastes all his talent with this movie.

What made the Lethal Weapon films work were their sense of humor and the likability of the two main characters. Riggs was absolutely, no-doubt-about-it insane in the first one, but you still laughed at his antics. The second film only emphasized the bond between Danny Glover and Mel Gibson. We cared about them because they were two good guys who anyone would want to be friends with. All the people in Assassins, on the other hand, are creeps. Stallone killed his best friend 15 years before. Banderas (overacting to annoyance this time instead of just merely skating on the edge as he did in Desperado) is obnoxious. Moore is a wallflower — b-o-r-i-n-g.

In order to make most action films work, you have to have some sense of peril, some fear that your favorite characters aren’t going to make it in the end. You don’t have a sense of danger in Assassins. All you have is Stallone acting in another tired action film, Moore squandering her talents, and Banderas hoping that one of the next zillion films of his coming out this fall will do slightly better. Avoid this one like the plague. (Grade: D+)

Caper from page 10

sorts — all the while keeping in mind that my goal was not to offend the real-life counterparts of my characters, but to compliment them for their contributions to the life and spirit of the college.”

Auditions were held in September, and rehearsal began almost immediately with the performance date less than a month away. Griffin and Costa combined their talents to produce a wonderful show in an extremely short time; Griffinserved as playwright and musical director, Costa as director. The team (a total of 16 cast members and countless others who contributed much time and effort) worked in Baker Sports Complex, which proved to be both exciting and challenging. They had to provide their own stage, lights, dressing rooms, and sound system. Ronnie Higdon, Gardener, and Claudia Schinn helped in coordinating these necessities. The Great Honor Code Caper was met with resounding appeal. While Griffin was extremely pleased with the success of the show, he is quick to point out the many that paved its way. At the top of his list of gratitude are the departments of English and theater, where he was very active as an undergraduate. Following (but certainly not of any less importance) are the donors, volunteers, and the faculty, staff, and students who worked with the Campaign during the past six years. Congratulations on a successful campaign and a wonderful show!

WRITE FOR Arts & LIVING. Call JOHN. -2148.

EXON EXPRESS SHOPPE
601 Griffith Street (I-77 exit 30)
Bud 18-pack $9.99
$.99 Enjo Trademark ® 2 Liters valid thru 10-31-95
6-PACK CANS $1.79 valid thru 10-31-95
Now hiring part-time flexible hours/good pay

ARTS & LIVING
MONDAY, OCTOBER 16

ON THE SCENE
Exhibition of Maps shows you where to go 8 a.m.-11 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.
Forum on Marriage and Family discusses marriage and family 7 p.m.-10 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Jumpin’ Java Café starts the pots at 8 p.m. at the Outpost.

Tuesday
Exhibition of Maps again, same time, same place.
Coffeehouse makes the morning brighter 8:30 a.m.-11 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Richard Reeves, columnist speaks on “The Chief Executive: Management in the Whitehouse” 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Jumpin’ Java Café keeps the pots going 8 p.m.-midnight at the Outpost.
21-Year-Old Night serves good stuff 10:30 p.m.-midnight in the 900 Room.

Wednesday
Project Life Study Break gives FREE ice cream for a good cause 7 p.m.-9 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Quiz Show plays 9:30 p.m.-11:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Project Life Study Break continues, but no ice cream. 10 p.m.-11 p.m. in the Big Screen Room.
Leftover Salmon jams 9 p.m.-midnight in Johnston Gym.
Jumpin’ Java Café open mic night: reading of international poetry. 9:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.

Friday
Hugh Darley Exhibit, “The Art of Entertainment,” opens in the Union Gallery.
Quiz Show runs again 8 p.m.-10 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Saturday
Jumpin’ Java Café pots are still going 2 p.m.-6 p.m. at the Outpost.
Athenaeum in Concert offers intimate performance 9:30 p.m.-midnight in the 900 Room.

Sunday
Hugh Darley Exhibit Reception gives a chance to meet the artist himself 7 p.m.-9 p.m. in the Union Lobby.
Jumpin’ Java Café ends the week on a caffeine high 8 p.m.-midnight at the Outpost.
Music Event sounds like fun. 8 p.m.-9:30 p.m. at Hodson Hall.

Upcoming
“Gelatins in Our Closet: Photographs from the Permanent Collection” displays cool pictures at the VAC.
Last chance to submit photos for The Davidsonian photo contest! Entries are due Tuesday by 5.

Construction

PART-TIME NANNY WANTED in the afternoon for 5-month-old boy
* no evenings
* must have own transportation
salary negotiable
call Libby at 663-6881

Clean Up in River Run
Flexible Hours
call Greg Bratko digital pager 613-2789