4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Week in Washington

Welfare compromise nears passage

By DAVID SANTSCHI
Washington Week Correspondent

The Senate on Friday neared agreement on a compromise welfare bill after week-long wrangling over specific provisions. While much of the original Republican proposal remained intact, several compromises were made to hold the votes of Democrats and moderate Republicans.

The Republican bill eliminates the current system, in which every person who qualifies receives benefits, and replaces it with lump-sum payments, or block grants, to the states. According to proponents, having the states distribute the money to individuals would encourage change and save $70 billion over five years.

Last Tuesday, a Democratic amendment was rejected 50-49 which would have limited the amount that states could cut from their welfare programs. Democrats sought to force states to maintain welfare spending at 90% of current levels for the next five years. Otherwise, they feared states would try to minimize spending on welfare to fund other programs. Although their proposal was rejected, Republican leaders agreed to add an 80% spending requirement to the bill.

Democrats and moderate Republicans also forced the elimination of a provision that would deny additional welfare benefits to women who have children while receiving welfare payments. The defeat of the family cap preserves current procedure, where benefits automatically increase when a family has additional children. Conservatives like Sen. Phil Gramm (R-TX) argued against subsidizing “people who have babies they don’t want” and lamented “the destruction of families.” But others contended that the family cap would mostly impact children who, according to Sen. Patrick Moynihan (D-NY), “haven’t been asked to be brought into the world.”

Other concessions to moderates came later in the week. The Senate rejected 76-24 a proposal introduced by Sen. Lauch Faircloth (R-NC) to cut off benefits to mothers under 18 who have out-of-wedlock births. Late Thursday, Republicans agreed to add $8 billion for childcare over five years, mainly to appease Democrats who claimed that families forced to work under the new plan would not have enough money to pay for it. A Democratic amendment providing $11 billion for childcare failed three days earlier. Bowing to conservative pressure, the Senate on Thursday voted 63-37 to give states additional money if they could substantially reduce out-of-wedlock births.

Despite these concessions that eliminated the most conservative elements of the bill, the legislation remains largely unchanged. It imposes a strict work requirement, which would require 50% of welfare recipients to work by 2000, puts a five-year limit on receiving welfare benefits, and encourages state innovation to break dependency. Most importantly, the welfare bill eliminates the entitlement of Americans to welfare benefits and makes state governments solely responsible for administering welfare programs.

The tone of the debate has become markedly more conservative in the last year. Turning welfare over to the states in block grants and cutting off benefits after a certain time directly challenge 60 years of poverty legislation. Some Democrats were outraged that the debate moved so far to the right. However, White House spokesman Michael McCurry praised the Senate bill as moving “in the direction of real reform.” His response indicated that President Clinton, like Democratic leaders on Capitol Hill, is eager not to appear as an obstacle in its path.

Sources include: September 13, 14, 15 of The New York Times and September 14 of The Wall Street Journal.

Dean Rusk

U.N. Women’s Conference makes international strides

By Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

This last week marked the end of the Fourth World Conference on Women. Overall, observers seemed to be pleased with its outcome and almost all the participants were pleased with how little hostility there was between disagreeing parties throughout the conference. Issues brought before the conference ranged from women in leadership positions to lesbianism. While not all of the issues were addressed to the satisfaction of everyone assembled, there was major headway made on some important topics.

Sex and power were the key themes in the Conference’s Platform of Action. A large emphasis was placed on a woman’s ability to make her own decisions in issues surrounding her own sexuality and childbearing. Violence against women was also given a great deal of consideration by the assembly. In particular, rape as a result of war (which has been common in the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda) and genital mutilation (which...is still an issue in many African countries) were strongly condemned and punishments for these actions were proposed. The final emphasis was put on Letitia, that crazy China doll. Tai vine? "Shijiat oXining" Yettow Lanzhou ea ah ea ses 'tun, A Hostergs eS <Panchihua. Titty Campbell women's position in society and emphasized the importance of female leaders as well as reiterating the importance of a strong family. It would be a mistake to assume that the conference went over without a hitch. It started off on the wrong foot with all the problems surrounding China’s harassment of the delegates during the first week of the conference. There was also major disagreement over how much equality women should receive. There was a large concern among some countries (especially Muslim ones) that following the conference’s platform would lead to major unrest and turmoil within their countries which traditionally oppose equality of the sexes. There was also disagreement over the use of contraception and abortion to help further women’s control of their own bodies. And probably the largest unrest resulted from the issue of recognizing and commenting on the rights of lesbians. In the end, no statement was made regarding homosexuality. The final consensus seemed to be that women needed to be protected by their countries from abuse and given a more equal position in society. However, the extent of that equality was to vary between different societies based upon their historical, religious, and social customs.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1995

The Nawidsonian

US NOTES

'Wrong Leg? A Tampa surgeon who has been widely vilified and ridiculed for mistakenly amputating the wrong leg of a patient on February 20 sought this week to regain both his license to practice medicine and a measure of his once-solid reputation. In a three-day hearing before the state official who will make recommendations on his professional future, Dr. Rolando Sanchez and his lawyer, Michael Blazicek, publicly presented their side of the story for the first time. They said that a series of errors by other hospital personnel and the severely diseased condition of both legs led Sanchez to believe that he was operating on the correct leg. The blackboard to which surgeons refer in the operating room at University Community Hospital listed the wrong leg for amputation, as did the operating room schedule and the hospital computer system, testimony showed. By the time Sanchez entered the operating room, the wrong leg had been sterilized and draped for surgery. Some doctors who appeared as witnesses said that the leg Sanchez removed was in such poor shape that it probably would have been amputated in the future. Sanchez testified that he learned of his error from a nurse as he was still cutting through the leg. After reviewing the patient’s file, she had started to shake and cry. But by that point, he said, there was no turning back.

Taken from the Sunday, September 17 Charlotte Observer

Cyberspace

Paul Saffo, Director of the Institute for the Future and author of Dreams in Silicon Valley, in a computer chat via the Internet with Fort Worth Star-Telegram staff writer Stephen Michaud: You know that a technology is about to become a compelling medium when it is attacked by the establishment as dangerous to youth and culture. Remember, Plato railed against writing; the Roman church violently opposed the printing press; 19th century English intellectuals were alarmed by the effect of novels on youth. Now “cyberspace” is the target. But look at what a frail, unconvincing thing cyberspace is — mostly text, some fuzzy graphics and stilted applications, all running at excruciatingly slow speeds. Only someone utterly unfamiliar with today’s on-line world would seriously consider it a threat to anything. Cyberspace is no more likely to destroy youth or culture than did earlier media. On the contrary, like all earlier media, digital media will be a source of renewal and growth. Culture itself constantly evolves. This evolution only seems destructive to aging commentators attached to fuzzy memories of an idealized past.

Taken from the Sunday, September 17 Charlotte Observer

WELCOME BACK STUDENTS!

Sculptured Nails * French Manicures Pedicures * Tanning Booth

At The Duchess we offer you a day of stress-free pampering. New additions to our store:
- Facials
- Skin care
- Facial Tanning

Ask for Peggy

TANNING SPECIAL: 10 visits for $33.00

CONNIE AND MICHELLE: Full Set of Nails for only $40.00 (thru February)

Located at the Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St., Cornelius
(704) 892 - 7030