THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING TUESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1995 9

Texts, lies, and videotapes
Senior English Aces premier their works for Colloquium Film Festival
By Ed Acle
Movie Critic

Cannes, New York, Sundance, Davidson ... Davidson?!? That’s right, tonight Davidson will join the ranks of the elite film festivals held around the globe by showing eight student-produced films. The films were made as final projects for the Senior English Colloquium, so it should be obvious that plenty of time and effort went into them. Here’s a brief listing of the makers of the films, their titles, and what each is about.

* The Most Dangerous Game
The one true action/adventure film of the night, this film by Jeff Kent and Miller Cary should blow away any Die Hard. Worth seeing just for El Jefe’s James Bond-villain imitation.

* Chloe
A tale about a man and his obsession with a woman who he can never be with, by Matt Foree and Mark McGuire. This is a Three-Fisted Monkey Production, which practically guarantees that it'll be a quality flick.

* , 
Chad Ossman’s five-minute take on the Senior English Colloquium syllabus wins the prize for shortest (and most bizarre) title.

* Dating at Davidson
A film by Terry Gordon and Maggie Young about — you guessed it — dating at Davidson. Given the title, this, too, should be a short film.

* Pavement Board
A Jack Livings, Mary Stephens, Adam Knapp production (all of whom I apologize to because I think I got the title wrong). This film was to be about a young man’s alienation in a technology-obsessed world, but has blossomed into a whole different thing. What that thing is no one is, as of yet, exactly sure.

* An Evening with Ishmael
Chrissy Ford and Chris Frampton’s take on the relationship between those two lovable cut-ups from Moby Dick, Queequeg and Ishmael.

* Light in November
This travelogue, inspired by the works of William Faulkner and Eudora Welty, was made by Bobby Ramsay and Mandy Curtis, the two most brilliant minds ever to set foot on Davidson soil. The fact that they’re my editors has nothing to do with the preceding comments. Really.

* A Dog and His Boy
Tom Robertson and Ed Acle bring you this warm-hearted tale about one man’s search for a mutt in today’s cold, cruel world. Of course it’s set in Davidson.

Well, that’s it. Hope to see you in Perkins Auditorium, tonight at 7:05 p.m. (Why 7:05? It’s Kuzmo-time, so don’t ask.)

Postcards from the Edge
Students relax in the land of siestas and sunshine
By Mary Clare Jalonick
Traveling Editor

Man, am I going to miss Spain. After reading Emily Simmon’s article on her experience in Germany, I was inspired to pick up my pen (which, to be honest, hasn’t seen that much action lately) and fulfill my duties as a Postcards from the Edge correspondent. I actually wasn’t going to write this article, for I felt there was no way I could capture my experience in under 500 words — I could write for pages about Spanish people, customs, culture, scenery, etc.

I was just so interested to read that the Germans are so orderly, because this word is not very important in Spain, especially in Southern Spain, in Sevilla, where we live. For the non-anal-retentive, Spain is the place to be. A beer costs less than a Coke, and wine costs less than beer, which is available in gas station vending machines. No smoking signs might as well be in another language, for it isn’t rare to see someone light up in a department store or a crowded bus. Next door to one hospital across from where I live, doctors and nurses often relax with a beer and a cigarette.

The most wonderful thing about Spain is the afternoon siesta — the nap enjoyed by the entire country between 2 and 5 p.m. every day. Long (and large) lunches are the norm, and if you want to run any sort of errand, it’s just not possible. However, most bars are open all day — it’s always possible to get a drink in Spain.

The people (especially in Sevilla) couldn’t be nicer. Ask them for directions (in broken Spanish, of course), and they’ll take you there. Order a drink, and, if you’re lucky, they’ll give you free food. However, it’s always understood that they are never wrong.

The weather here is still sunny, but we can tell that Christmas is coming because of the tinsel decorating the hooves of ham (oh, so many hooves of ham) in every local grocery store window. After becoming assimilated into such a relaxed culture, returning to the States (not to mention Davidson) will be a shock to the system.

However, it will be so exciting to return home to my family, friends, dog, Christmas tree, interesting professors, FACs, Hickory Hams, and e-mail. We only have a little time left, though, and as we reflect upon our semester it becomes obvious how much we’ll all miss this beautiful country. So Merry Christmas, Feliz Navidad. Good luck on exams — we’ll think of you going crazy in the library. We'll be back.There soon enough—hurrying to meetings and rushing papers to Chambers by 5:00. But for now, it’s time to live for the moment. Hasta luego; see you in January.

College Cooking
Crunch time means munch time
By Jay Shuttz & Ros Kosicki
Chefs-in-Residence

We realize that with exams quickly approaching, you will have minimal time to cook meals. Therefore, for our final article of the semester, we are going to provide our top 11 (because we just couldn’t stop at 10) quickie meals for exam week:

1. Kraft Cheese and Macaroni. Sometimes it’s the simple things in life that are so good. At 79¢ for two boxes, it just can’t be beat. Boil some water, cook the macaroni, add cheese. Instant satisfaction.
2. Little Charlie’s Pizza. If you haven’t already discovered this divine creation, look in the frozen food section of the Union Café. If you want a nice crispy crust, place it in the oven at 350°F for 10 to 15 minutes. If pressed for time, zap it in the microwave for three.
3. Pasta. The possibilities are endless. Be creative.
4. Ramen Noodles. If the funds are dwindling at the end of the semester, this is the meal for you. It’s best served in the wee hours of the morning.
5. Bruegger’s Bagel Shop. Why not—it’s new.
6. Sandwich Maker. If you don’t have one, get one. It makes the ultimate Fluffer Nutter (this would be a peanut butter and marshmallow fluff sandwich). Don’t knock it till you try it.
7. Campbell’s Chunky Soup. What can we say—it’s the soup that eats like a meal.
8. Hungry Man TV Dinners. They’re making a comeback.
9. Eggs. Scramble three eggs in a pan and add salsa and cheddar cheese. I really think the Outpost should consider adding this recipe to their scant menu.
10. Oven-roasted chicken. Walk inside Harris Teeter and hang a right. There you will see precooked oven-roasted chickens. Why do the cooking if someone has already done it for you? Premade salads are also available towards the back of the fruits and vegetable section of Harris Teeter if you want to complete the ultimate meal for slackers who are too lazy to do their own cooking, or simply don’t have the time.
11. Cereal. Milk is optional. Many varieties are just as good straight from the box. Keep a box handy while typing up that last term paper.

Over Christmas break you can dazzle your parents with all the great new recipes we have provided you with this semester. Go ahead, take all the credit; we don’t mind... See you in ‘96.

O LITTLE TOWN OF DAVIDSON
Cars speed by Christmas in Davidson. Rob Jake

Nevertheless, I give all the credit for the success of my endeavors to the interpersonal skills and creative resourcefulness which Davidson helped me develop. And, of course, I would not be able to pursue such a unique program of study without the academic flexibility the school provides.

This business has in fact proved so lucrative that I am currently considering extending my leave from college to dedicate myself to further agricultural studies.

*HEY YOU*
Thanks for your attention! Hiring for summer camp 1996. We are seeking horse, swimming, canoeing, and high ropes instructors as well as general cabin counselors to work with 8-13 year old boys and girls. All positions run from the first week of June to the 2nd week of August. $135-$150 per week—depending on experience. Weekends off, free room and board. For an application form or more information, please contact John Schoultz at 804 Cedar Lane, Reedsville, NC 27320 (910) 342-0254 e-mail: schoultz@vnet.net

Special Ski Program Continued For Davidson Students

Due to the huge success of the special ski program offered by Winterplace Ski Resort, arrangements have been made to continue the availability of the special prices for Davidson Students, Faculty, and Staff. Students, Faculty, and Staff wishing to take advantage of this special ski program must present their college identification card when purchasing lift tickets or renting ski equipment.

SPECIAL PRICES:
Weekdays (Monday to Friday)
Lift Tickets Rental Equipment (skis, boots & poles)
All Day (9 a.m. to 10 p.m.) $18.95 $10.95
3 p.m. to 10 p.m. $16.95 $10.95

Weekends (Saturday & Sunday)
Lift Tickets Rental Equipment (skis, boots & poles)
All Day (9 a.m. to 10 p.m.) $33.95 $16.95
3 p.m. to 10 p.m. $20.95 $12.95

You save over 30% off regular prices! (For example, a weekday lift ticket would normally be $43.50)

This Year Enjoy:
- Expanded Resort Center with Stage for Live Music!
- FREE Night Skiing with purchase of All Day Lift Ticket!
- Longest Skiing Day in the Southeast!
- New Double Chairlift!
- 1,300 New Rossignol and Elan Rental Skis!
- Night Skiing Every Night until 10 p.m!
- New Snowboard Park! And New Snowboard Rentals!
- 100% Snowmaking Capacity—we cover every single one of our slopes with lots of white stuff!

Call Today:
Information: 800-607-7669
Snow Phone: 800-258-3127

Only Two Minutes Off I-77 at Exit 28! Located 14 miles south of Beckley, WV.