THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1995 15

Wildcats sitting atop Conference

By JASON McMULLAN
Sports Writer

The Wildcats volleyball team jumped to the top of the Southern Conference with two recent wins over Western Carolina and Tennessee-Chattanooga, the squad’s first two conference games of the season.

VOLLEYBALL

The team also racked up a victory Thursday over Radford, after losing the first game of the match. Close losses to UNC Greensboro and UNC-Asheville left Davidson’s record at a respectable 6-10.

L.A. Bumgarner and Michelle Augustin are leading the team with their outside hitting and primary passing positions. Augustin led the Wildcats as Athlete of the Week with a superb hitting percentage and almost flawless digs. In fact, she leads the conference and is 13th in the nation in digs per game.

Coach Lisa Radford was hopeful that her Wildcats’ hot streak would carry into Sunday in a tough conference match at Georgia Southern. Davidson took a tough three-set loss Friday night at Furman.

This week brings three tough opponents to Belk Arena. The Wildcats face conference foe Appalachian State on Friday, Charleston Southern on Saturday, and conference opponent East Tennessee State on Sunday. Friday’s and Saturday’s games are at 7 p.m., and Sunday’s start time is 2 p.m.

Outdoors Columnist

Team Whitewater takes third in Intercollegiate

By JOHN ROE
Outdoors Columnist

On a weekend not too long ago this summer, if you happened to be passing by the cove at the lake campus, you saw the makings of Davidson’s first kayak and canoe team.

THE GREAT OUTDOORS

No, those two laborers were not sweating over the approaching school year; instead, Ed Daugherty and Nick Kallan had their sights on the Intercollegiate Whitewater competition on Sept. 23-24.

Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break Trips!

Sell 8 Trips & Go Free! Best Trips & Prices!

Bahamas, Cancun, Jamaica, Florida!

Call Spring Break Travel! 1-800-678-6386

FREE TRIPS & CASH!

Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL NOW! (800) 95-BREAK!

Over the next few months, numerous potential team members spent long afternoons at the lake. Sometimes they paddled extreme distances, and other times, they navigated complicated gates. When race time approached, however, the team was chiseled down to the few who could take it, or maybe just the few who didn’t have a big paper due.

The day finally came, and the paddling conditions were extreme for even the gutsiest of paddlers. A chill swept through the Tuckasegee gorge, and a constant rain soaked and swelled the river. Race conditions were so extreme that three gates were deleted from the course in fear that paddlers would be sucked into the raging “Dip” and possibly not return. Daugherty, the team’s whitewater guru, grouped the anxious paddlers together for the final game plan, saying, “This could get interesting.”

The kayak slalom was the first race and, despite the experienced competition, Team Whitewater managed to string together a few fast, clean runs. Captain Kallan edged out teammate John Roe for third place with a score of 94.2. Next, the crowd was baffled by Chris Stec’s third-place finish in C1, even though it was his first time in the boat.

Following the men’s competition, Noni Nielson paddled her way through the women’s class and picked up a first-place medal for solo canoe. She and Caroline McGoughy also placed in tandem canoe. By day’s end, the team found itself in second place behind rival Sewanee.

By the second day, the elements had worn down most of the team, and only the hard-core fans remained. Team Whitewater gathered what little they had left and put together quite an impressive day. In the downriver kayak class, led by Mark Buckley’s first-place finish, the team executed a clean sweep. In C1, Team Whitewater swept again, and, in solo canoe, Roe unexpectedly placed first. In the fastest competition of the day, led by Kallan and Tom Robertson’s time of 19:02 in the tandem canoe, Davidson took first and second places.

Team Whitewater finished in second place overall, edging Western Carolina.

Race into the Weekend on a Full Tank... You can be in the Winner's circle too by donating life-saving plasma!

Visit our friendly, modern center and find out how you can earn up to $200 a month while helping others. New donors $30.

DONATE PLASMA TODAY

MAKE YOUR NEXT PIT STOP AT

“people helping people”

1511 Central Ave. at Pecan Charlotte, NC 333-0335 Valid ID with Social Security number required. M-Th: 6:30a-9p Fri: 6:30a-8p Sat: 7:30a-6p Sun: 7:30a-4:30p