12. THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1995

Faculty exhibition mystifies viewers

By Laura BENOIT
Staff Writer

In search of a myth big enough to do an ongoing series, Herb Jackson stumbled upon St. Veronica, who wiped
Jesus’ brow with her veil. This resulted in 118 works, the most recent of which are displayed. They were made
using many layers of acrylic — between 15 and 100 to be exact. They are all the same size and
refer to the veil in the same way: usually with a rectangle which comes down from the top. This suggests
the veil to be suspended in space, so his works tend to focus more on the mysticism of the myth
rather than the actual literal image, i.e., look closely! It’s a magic image! Each painting has its own rationale with
color, not relative to some symbolic else.

When questioned about when he worked on his pieces, Jackson chuckled and stated that it depended on how one defines
“spare time” (by now, even the freshmen know all too much about that topic at Davidson).

There are two sets of prints in Glenn Ligon’s exhibit. The first, titled “Runaways,” is 10 lithographs in the format
of slave flyers. Ligon had his friends write the descriptions of himself that appear on the flyers. The second set,
“Narratives,” is an ensemble of nine etchings with chine collé and refers to contemporary experiences of escaped slaves and refugees
from the law using the fonts and language of the 19th century. His exhibition is very personal; it reveals a
lot about himself and handles issues of diverse reality. He is an individual who must deal with racial passage —
the identity and freedom found in his African-American heritage. Although he did not experience it, this past is a part
of him, and he struggles with it. The title of his exhibition, “To Disembark,” does not necessarily have reference in
itself; it most probably originated from the idea of the Virginia slave Henry “Box” Brown, who escaped and shipped himself
to freedom in 1849. Eight wood and mixed media boxes fill the room and contribute to the atmosphere of disembarking.
Ligon creates a legend about himself in this series of runaways and narratives.

Cort Savage’s sculpture on display is a kinetic work composed of barrels hanging from a ceiling that expose descending ladders
when a person enters the display room, triggering a complex concealed mechanism and initiating a series of movements. When the
ladders are fully extended, an immense amount of time seems to elapse before they ascend back to their origin. It
may surprise you, but it is actually only 20 seconds! In order for the movement to make sense, it is
necessary for it to be contrasted by the totally static. When the ladders come down and stop, you are waiting
for movement but just not getting it. During this period of time, people are frozen. The mental experience definitely exceeds
20 seconds, especially if you are waiting for something to go wrong. When they are static, you take the time
to look at them and realize that they are ladders. Barrels are utilitarian references which give entrance into a new
context, a new environment. What is offered by the peace is an opportunity for escape, but when they close (clamp
shut) they can be a prison or a trap. The barrels are human scale — you can almost imagine fitting
inside of it. This exhibit is about breaking physical barriers, driven by the psychological, the mental. The table with a
hole in it is an example of this theme: a ladder goes through it. Transition is important, whether from a
physical to a spiritual experience or being in a place and transcending it to another. You do not have to
understand it or know it in order for it to appear significant. In this context though, you don’t know what
to do with any of it: table, barrels, or ladders.

“Unusual from page 10 they are doomed to be on that ship.

Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break Trips! Sell 8 Trips & Go Free! Best Trips & Prices! Bahamas, Cancun, Jamaica,
Florida! Call Spring Break Travel! 1-800-678-6386

Once the film ends, the viewer finally sees that they never had any choice. Suspects arrives at a conclusion which
the viewer realizes in the end is the only one that really connects with everything you’ve seen in the film.
Once you see it you’ll kick yourself forNot having thought of it, but you’re guaranteed to leave the theater with
a smile on your face coming from the knowledge that you’ve seen a superb movie that dares to believe the
audience actually has a pulse. Are you a photographer? Call Rob -2148.

HSME TOWN RECORDS
New Stuff September 12th
Superchunk
G Love & Special Sauce
Lenny Kravitz
Morrissey
Lisa Loeb
Johnny Depp
Red Hot Chili Peppers

19507 NC Hwy. 73
P.O. Box 2503
Cornelius, NC 28031
(704) 896-7882

In search of a masterpiece
Students study art in England and France
By WILSON BUNTIN
Staff Writer

For the spring semester of last year, 13 Davidson College students and one faculty member traveled to England, taking the
study of art history to new-found heights. This was the first trip to England that Davidson has offered to those
interested in the study of art and architecture. Both art history majors and non-majors participated in the program, receiving full
credit for the spring semester. Dr. Larry Ligo, Chair of the Art Department, helped to create and structure the trip
to England and served as the sole faculty member on the trip. Ligo designed the entire program so that students
could reap the benefits of studying beautiful works of art on location. “There are no slides. When we’re studying a
particular artist’s work, we’re standing in front of the artist’s work,” he says.

Such a program might recall memories or perhaps dreams of passing sunny spring days in a small, cozy pub or
browsing through a side street art exhibit, the rich, sweet taste of beer lingering on the lips. This program is
not designed for those that harbor such notions amidst a busy junior year. The students that traveled to Europe were
there to learn and see first-hand some of the most beautiful and intoxicating works of art in the world. This
overwhelming desire to learn and experience set the pace for the program from the onset.

Ligo describes the semester as “intense.” Three courses are taught during the semester: Norman and Gothic Architecture, 19th-century painting, and
Survey of Art in Britain. The fourth course credit is an independent study done at the end of the semester
based on the student’s topic of choice. A seminar format is used to divide topics amongst students within the three
courses. Each student writes three papers, eventually serving as a lecturer and tour guide to the group in the chosen
area of research.

The semester began in London, where students spent two weeks writing two of the required papers. Numerous libraries were in
walking distance of the group’s quarters in the Bloomsbury District. The work during this period was critical to the success
of the rest of the semester. Next, the group traveled to France, spending three weeks in the heart of Paris.
Students frequented the Louvre studying the renowned David. The more modern Musée d’Orsay allowed the group to view post-impressionist works
as well as masterpieces by Paul Gauguin and Vincent Van Gogh. Paris also offered the group an in-depth look at
the birth of Gothic architecture which was later transported to England. Chartres, Notre Dame, and Sainte-Chapelle were important in tracing
the development of Gothic architecture to England. There was a general consensus among the group that Mont Saint-Michel, which sits
majestically along the Norman coast, was a highlight of the semester. Ligo agreed that “it offered a Romanesque and Gothic
summary of the entire evolution of these styles.”

The group then returned to England via the Chunnel under the English Channel, an architectural masterpiece in its own right.
From Paris to London, it took a brisk three hours as opposed to the five-hour ferry ride also available. After
two weeks of study in London, the group proceeded on its first road trip to Southern England, visiting six cathedrals
in two weeks. The second expedition was to Northern England shortly after a 10-day stay back in London where students
worked on an independent study of choice. The northern trip lasted three weeks as the group visited six more Gothic
buildings. The semester wound to a close in London with as much intensity as it had begun. For two to
three weeks, students took final exams. Ligo was very pleased at how the semester progressed: “It went very well. I
would change very little. The students worked very hard.”

Davidson is continuing to differentiate itself from peers by pioneering such beneficial programs abroad. Ligo supports Davidson’s efforts, adding, “I
don’t know of any place in the country that duplicates this program to England. It is a rare opportunity, and
I hope more and more people will take advantage of it.”
