THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1995

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
MANDY CURTIS
JOHN COPENHAVER

Arts & Living Editor
KATHERINE HASH

Business Manager
ROBERT RAMSAY

Asst. Arts & Living Editor
TERESA WHITE

Operations Manager
JOSHUA BUCHANAN

Associate Editors
WILLIAM ROBERT
RUSS TARVER

Sports Editor
MATT PITZER

Advertising Managers
MEREDITH BENKE
ANDY BOSWELL

News Editor
MATTHEW EIRICH

Photography Editor
ROB KOSICKI

Circulation Manager
CHLOE BROOKE

Assistant News Editor
JOANNA JOHNSON

Asst. Photography Editor
BRANDON CLARKE

Editorial Cartoonist
CHRIS MOORE

Opinions Editor
JEFF KENT

Copy Editor
LAUREN FREEMAN

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

De-pressure
Dee, press your eyes
Depressurize

Argh, Davidson. What can we say about this place that we love to hate and hate to love? What can
we say about all the work we have, should do, but don’t have enough hours in the day to do?
What can we say about doing anything for money on a Saturday night, turning instantaneously from Dr. Jekyll into Mr.
Hyde? What can we say about this place that can turn yourself upside down and inside out, change your world
view, alter your self-image in a year, and make you want to pull your hair out, hit your roommate, break
into Backstreet screaming “I swear I’m 21!,” and then break down and cry to Mom on the phone?

Well, let’s see what William Styron had to say about this place (at least, when he was here). Smothered by
the blanket of Southern Christian ideology, Davidson used to require that all students go to compulsory chapel service in Love
Auditorium. He went on to make the indirect yet explicit connection between himself, Vince Foster, depression, and Davidson. Interesting. What
can we say about an illustrious, Pulitzer prize-winning author and former Davidson student who publicly speaks and writes about Davidson
in this manner?

Okay, we know the connection was a loose one — Vince Foster didn’t commit suicide because he once went to
Davidson College. And as Styron said, he didn’t fall into clinical depression because he spent his first two college years
here. In fact, Styron pointed out that one doesn’t fall into clinical depression for one particular reason. That much we
know. Obviously, Styron was talking about the Davidson — and the South, for that matter — he knew years ago.
So the question now is how much of what he said still rings true today?

Wasn’t it just a couple of weeks ago that the Student Health Center held a seminar on “Dealing with Depression”?
Depression manifests itself here as it did 30 or so years ago — as it does anywhere and everywhere. We
see it in the rampant eating disorders. We see it in the need for a whole seminar devoted to depression.
We see it in the manic behaviors of Court party-goers who just nights before were holed up in the library.
Often, especially in this crunch time just before Thanksgiving break, we see these distorted images of ourselves — or rather
we choose not to see that the images are in fact distorted. This is when we stop eating or we
can’t stop eating. This is when we can’t sleep but all we want to do is sleep. This is when
we call home every night — or all we have to say is that things are “fine.” We go to
extremes, and the person we see in the mirror isn’t the same person we saw months ago. Maybe we don’t
even know the difference. But for some of us it is there — in our actions, in our outlooks, and
in our minds.

LETTERS

The Health Center does care

To the editors,

I am writing in response to The Davidsonian’s October 30 editorial, “The Morning After,” and the related editorial cartoon, “Morning
After Pill No Longer Offered at Health Center.” Reflecting our appreciation of two earlier informative Davidsonian articles on Student Health
and Student Counseling issues, our Health Educator, Georgia Ringle, actually initiated the interview on the morning after pill (MAP) to
deal with a very specific issue. In past years, physicians assistants, who would evaluate and prescribe the MAP, were at
the facility from 1:30 p.m. until 5:00 p.m. This year, medical staff serve between 1:30 and 4:30 p.m. We recently
had a situation wherein a student expecting the previous arrangement made an appointment so late (after 4:00 p.m.) that the
two options we have to obtain a MAP were no longer available that day. TheWhole point of the interview was
to get word out to the student body via The Davidsonian that students wanting the MAP need to contact the
student health facility early in the day and to state that need clearly so that effective arrangements can be made.
Although a related statement was in The Davidsonian article, it was essentially lost in other more peripheral information and attention
to “controversy.” We at Student Health are very concerned about students in this matter, and the original point still needs
emphasis. It was disappointing that The Davidsonian’s coverage missed an opportunity to help address an important student need. I hope
that the following response will address your assertion that students seeking a MAP have “no option at all.” It is
true our previous contracted medical staff did provide MAP prescription at the Student Health Facility, and that our new contracted
staff do not. However, this is not—as editorial implied—the result of a specific college policy change. Our policy continues to
provide as complete and professional medical care as our resources will allow. What happened in this regard is that the
Student Health Facility contract for medical services was discontinued at Davidson Clinic and begun with Lake Norman Family Medicine Center
(LNFMC), a decision based on many factors. Each clinic had offered advantages and disadvantages, but the most positive comprehensive health
services package for us was found with Lake Norman Family Medicine Center.

See Healthy on page 9

About expletives

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices
are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or
commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

As a reader of The Davidsonian, I have noticed the frequent and casual use of unnecessary expletives in many of
the articles, particularly in the Opinions section. The use of such words is commonplace in dialogue between students and friends,
and one does not usually become offended when a mild but somewhat crass phrase is interjected into a conversation. A
newspaper, however, should be held to a higher standard. I have enjoyed reading The Davidsonian since the first issue came
out this year. It is a paper that provides coverage of local and global events, student opinions, and humorous commentary.
However, I am always somewhat disenthralled with the publication whenever I come across a word that I find most often
scribbled on one of the bathroom walls of the many fine facilities here on campus. I do not enjoy being
able to draw a connection between my school newspaper and the walls of any bathroom (though I would like to
say that the recent efforts of The Toilet Paper have been most commendable), but regrettably, the same words I read
on the tiles above the sink or urinals are found in bold black and white on the pages of The
Davidsonian.

I realize that the editors of the paper are attempting to produce an honest, uncensored sounding board for many of
the otherwise unheard thoughts of students, but by allowing such words as “piss” and “damn” into the paper, the quality
of all the articles is cheapened and an unattractive light is shed on the entire paper. In the most recent
issues of The Davidsonian there have been numerous examples of such flagrant disregard for quality journalistic writing. More specifically, in
the seventh issue of this year a disgruntled fraternity man submitted an article venting his frustration at the paper’s lack
of coverage of the Otis Day concert. The article was continued on another page under the heading “Pissed.” I will
grant that the phrase was initially used in the article, but the paper did not have to brandish the word
as some sort of wonderful elaboration of the sentiments expressed by the peeved Greek. In addition, the phrase “damn” or
“damn it” can always be found in one of the many random and unrelated accounts of some fellow’s absolute infatuation
with the jaded topic of beer drinking. Honestly, some

See Really pissed on page 9
