THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 24, 1995

Experts and students discuss welfare

Charlotte Congresswoman Sue Myrick and others participate in heated debate

By Mary Clare Jalonick & Matthew Erich
News & Assistant News Editors

How are local agencies and recipients handling federal and state legislation on welfare? Six speakers with noted experience and a wide range of political beliefs attempted to answer this question to a full house of students, faculty, and community members Wednesday night. Audience and panel members became heated debating one of the most controversial topics in America. In response to their debate, six student panelists and approximately 20 students gathered for a debate of their own on the same topic the next night.

The panel on Wednesday included Charlotte area Republican Congresswoman Sue Myrick, Dan Carrington of the John Locke Foundation, a conservative think tank, Larry King from the Council for Children, Caroline Myers from a crisis assistance organization, Jake Jacobson from Charlotte, and jobs program welfare recipient Lisa Hempsell. From their opening statements, it was obvious to all that the panel represented a great diversity of views on the issue.

Myrick began by defending the Republican Congress’ attempt to turn authority back to state and local governments. Hempsell, a single mother with a four-year-old daughter, spoke of her experiences with the system. She now participates in the jobs program, which enables her to attend college and still support her family. “I don’t want to depend on the program,” she said, “but I want to use it to my full potential.” Also defending the welfare system, Myers spoke of the necessity for a more compassionate system. She said, “God wants all children to have the opportunity to thrive — we need a system of compassion.”

Carrington, in a radically opposite view, said that all current welfare programs should be scrapped and given to the states. King reported statistics of abused children, and the money that they would stop receiving should the Republicans succeed in welfare cuts. “We are hitting children and holding them accountable for their parents' responsibilities.” Speaking about local problems, Jordan said, “If we really want welfare reform we would blow the whole thing up and start over ... We are saddled with a state system that we can’t get out of.”

The speakers continued to debate among themselves and answered questions from the audience concerning, among other topics, competition among states as a result of less federal control and school lunches. As the panel came to a close, Myrick said, “I don’t think the government has a responsibility to give any of us a living, or to take care of me or you or anyone else.” A woman in the audience, extremely agitated, interrupted Myrick and screamed, “You just don’t get it! ... We as a community don’t have a responsibility to each other? Is that what you are saying?” After an exchange in which Myrick claimed that she was from a working-class family herself, she responded, “... What we are missing today is personal responsibility.”

The diversity of opinions and intensity of feelings expressed Wednesday night was matched and in some ways surpassed at the student panel discussion Thursday night. The members of the panel were juniors Mike Bodé, Letitia Campbell, Latasha Jenkins, and Liz Pharr and seniors Chad Lloyd and Danny Newman. Newman views the failures of welfare as an “economic problem rather than a social problem,” while Bodé approaches welfare reform as a social, “not economic, per se, issue.”The problem is “people will not be willing to get off welfare if they do not have incentive to get a job.” Pharr asserted that the government has no obligation to be involved with welfare at all. Campbell began by saying that the “function of welfare is the proper function of the state.” On the other side, Lloyd cited numerous statistics to show that welfare has failed. He endorsed the welfare reform proposed in the Republicans’ Contract with America. The panel then entertained questions, theories, and comments from the audience; this discussion became quite heated at points. In all, the discussion lasted over two hours.

Cross ‘from page | vacation was for, as a remembrance of what the school and country were founded on.” Harmon, Parham, and Hearon felt the display was inappropriate. They wanted to express their objection and to provoke thought. Parham says their work was not directed against Christianity, but “was a reaction to the idea that Christianity is unquestionable here.” Harmon says, “The whole point of the cross is that we’re not going to tell you what it means — if it annoys you, it means something to you. We didn’t necessarily want to annoy people; rather, we wanted to make people think.

“My perception of Christianity is that it is a more personal religion than what they think it is or what they say it is. When I go down to Commons and eat dinner and there’s a band roaring Christian music, it’s a very forced situation to me, and I don’t really appreciate that.”

Sapp disagrees that the three crosses were an attempt to proselytize. He says the display is “no different from the FLAG display” (a kiosk put up during AIDS Awareness week). “There was no reason for people to feel offended. Expressing religion is not forcing religion down people’s throats. It is unreasonable for people to feel offended.”

Parham says, “At any other college they [the three crosses] would have been ripped down. ... They were very Davidson specific. What is the Christian voice here? What does it do? What does it represent? We put something up that has as many levels of interpretation as the other crosses did.”

Bartholomew says the Christian groups were concerned about possible alienation of non-Christians. “The Ecumenical Council was worried about that. [An explanation] was supposed to be in the paper,” he says. The groups were counting on an opinion piece being run in The Davidsonian explaining the crosses. The piece was submitted past the opinions deadline and was not printed. Dean of Students Tom Shandley asked the artists to identify themselves near the display in order to assume responsibility for their action.

INTO THE STREETS WEEK APRIL 24-28

MONDAY: Hunger Awareness
Call 892-2420 to sign up for the Hunger Feast Dinner. 6pm in the 900 Room.

TUESDAY: Kids Count! Day
Join Sandra Willoughby and Cindy Simpson of the Family Support Center to discuss Identifying and Responding to child abuse and neglect. 8pm in the Carolina Inn

WEDNESDAY: Community Day
Meet on the town green at 5pm for the annual community dinner. Enjoy Ford's BBQ. Sponsored by REACH OUT, Patterson Court Houses and community churches. Want to help organize it? Call Steven Elliot at 896-6588.

THURSDAY: Habitat Day and Earth Day
Volunteer to build with a Habitat family call Will Lazenby. Celebrate Earth Day behind the Commons with the Billys - a recycling band! 4-8pm on the Commons Patio

FRIDAY: Literacy Awareness Day
Learn about literacy in the US and around the world. Read the information around campus - if you can!

YOUR LIFE MAY BE BUSY...BUT IS IT FULL?