6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Week in Washington

White House tries to recover fumbled Foster nomination

By ANDREA SHORT
Washington Week correspondent

Once again, Washington is gnashing its teeth on a cabinet nominee: Dr. Henry Foster, Clinton’s top choice to replace Dr. Jocelyn Elders as Surgeon General. Foster’s abortion record and the administration’s lack of preparation have upset both sides of the Senate aisle. Last week, Republicans and Democrats alike expressed frustration with the White House’s bungled handling of the Foster nomination; Foster may become a victim of the administration which supports him.

Head of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Meharry Medical College in Nashville, Foster has practiced medicine for 38 years. Commended by former President Bush in 1991, Foster heads a campaign to end teenage pregnancy through teaching teens abstinence. Foster recently served as president of the Association of Professors of Obstetrics and Gynecology. He strongly advocates providing more health care to poor, rural areas.

The controversy that surrounds Foster’s nomination began when Health and Human Services sources falsely told Republican Senator Nancy Kassebaum that Foster had only performed one abortion during his career. The false statement and the administration’s apparent ignorance about its own nominee has enraged even Clinton’s own party. Senator J. Bennett Johnston, a Louisiana Democrat, said of Clinton on Wednesday, “What people are saying about the Foster thing is: ‘There he goes again. Can’t he learn how to run his office after two years?’”

Attempting to clarify his record, Foster appeared on ABC’s “Nightline.” He announced that he had performed 39 abortions while in private practice and supervised the clinical trials of an alternative to surgical abortion which produced 55 abortions. A recently discovered 1976 medical journal article written by Foster has also worsened his credibility. In the article, Foster writes that he performed hysterectomies on severely mentally retarded women who were not suffering from medical problems. Many doctors have defended Foster’s writings as mainstream for the time, but the issue’s obvious controversy has further deteriorated Foster’s chances.

The White House had originally planned to abstain from the abortion issue, but it now appears as if Clinton has instructed his staff to confront the issue head-on. Chief of Staff Leon Panetta described Foster’s denouncers as “the extreme right, who are basically saying, ‘We want to make illegal a woman’s right to choose.’” The focus on abortion has angered doctors as well as politicians. Dr. Irving Rust, Director of the Bronx Planned Parenthood Clinic, said, “The doctor has delivered thousands of babies, but they’re not asking him that. They’re asking him how many abortions he’s done.” He added, “What we’re forgetting here is abortions are legal.”

Neither party has embraced Foster’s nomination; most senators report they have not yet decided how they will vote if Foster survives the Labor and Human Services Committee hearing. Although many Republican leaders have called on Clinton to drop Foster, Clinton cannot afford simply to drop another controversial nominee with his questionable treatment of Lani Guinier. Clinton plans to postpone the hearing until mid-March, ostensibly to give the FBI time to complete a background check. Most sources believe, however, that the administration hopes that during the waiting period, the current controversy will die down.

Sources include: the February 20 issue of Newsweek and the February 10, 13, 15, and 16 issues of The New York Times.

Dean Rusk

U.N. Charges Serbs with genocide

By GRAHAM ERNST
Dean Rusk adjunct reporter

Last Tuesday, the United Nations tribunal investigating war crimes in the Balkans indicted Commander Zeljko Meakic and 20 other Serbian soldiers stationed at the Omarska concentration camp for “genocide and crimes against humanity.” While no exact death toll has been determined, more than 10,000 Muslims and Croats were imprisoned at Omarska, a converted mine complex, where executions took place daily between May and August 1992.

The charges mark a clear turning point in the U.N.’s will to replace politically safe euphemisms like “ethnic cleansing” with the hard truth: genocide. When British newspapers reported that Omarska was being used as a concentration camp in early August 1992, the Bush administration acted quickly to glaze the situation over by claiming that none of the information had been confirmed. As a signer of the Prevention of Genocide Treaty, the United States is legally bound to support a U.N. military effort to halt such actions if they are proved to be occurring. However, prospects of a costly and entangling military mission have forced theClinton administration to follow its predecessor and turn its shoulder to reports of war crimes in the former Yugoslavia. Genocide is not exclusive to Bosnia-Herzegovina today. A dispute in Russia between Ossetians and Ingush traditionalists and civil strife in the Asian nations of Cambodia and Burma offer cases of inhumane actions that most politicians hope never reach a CNN news camera. However, at some point, the international community will have to decide what its role will be in fighting crimes against humanity. More than 30,000 women have been raped in Bosnia, and more than 1.4 million Croats and Muslims have been forced from their homes as part of the Bosnian Serb “ethnic cleansing” campaign. This question of enforcing the Genocide Prevention Treaty is hardly a simple one to answer. Should the U.S. aggressively investigate all nations where genocide is suspected and intervene, risking American lives? Or should it continue to look the other way any time a costly military mission presents itself? The issue is further complicated in deciding whether to act alone or to build a coalition. The truth of the Nazi concentration camps at Auschwitz and Dachau did not present itself until after WWII was over and more than six million Jews had been executed. Even now, Germany’s version of the Holocaust is unspecific. Although a generation grew out of WWII vowing “never again” to allow mass atrocities like the Holocaust to take place, it is clear that the vision and clarity of that “never again” phrase has been clouded and almost forgotten. If our vision of the world has changed since the end of WWII, and we do value political agendas and opinion polls more than we value human rights, then admit that this is the case with honorable regret. Let us not paint over history by looking the other way to avoid the truth.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1995

Perspective

NOTES

Less drinking? Even though abusive drinking has been the focus of increased public attention and campus counseling because of its links with hazing injuries and date rapes, college officials and health experts who have studied student drinking agree in several recent studies that the number of college-age drinkers has in fact been declining for two decades. One in four students reported abstaining even from an occasional beer in 1971; today it is nearly half, according to a recent study of more than 300,000 students nationwide