SPORTS 14 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1995

Harwood climbs over Mountaineers.
Rob Kosicki

Harwood’s shot drops ASU
Men's basketball snaps three-game skid

By Matt Pitzer
Sports Editor

Just when the men’s basketball team needed a patch-up job, Quinn Harwood stepped up and righted Davidson’s sinking ship.

MEN'S BASKETBALL

Harwood nailed a three-pointer with four seconds left Saturday to give the Wildcats a 76-75 win at Appalachian State to
break the team’s three-game losing streak, its longest skid in two years. With the win, Davidson popped back into contention
in the Northern Division of the Southern Conference after coming dangerously close to slipping into the lower ranks. At 5-4
in the conference, Davidson remained tied for second in the division, just one game behind East Tennessee State. Tonight the
Buccaneers come into Belk Arena for a huge conference match-up that could go a long way in determining tournament seedings.
With a win tonight, Davidson would basically be back in first place, as they would have the tie-breaking advantage over
the Buccaneers with two head-to-head wins. The Wildcats beat ETSU in Johnson City, Tenn., 81-75 on Jan. 14.

Saturday, Harwood found himself open on the right wing to drain the shot after coming off through the back screen
on the baseline. As he let it fly, “It felt good,” he said, “You never know that it will be
good, but I knew it had a real good chance to go in.” Harwood’s shot capped a game in which
Davidson seemed on the verge of breaking open several times, a game in which the Wildcats came oh-so-close to losing
and a game that finished with a wild final 20 seconds. With the Mountaineers ahead 74-71, Brandon Williams missed a
shot in the lane and fouled ASU star Chad McClendon on the rebound with 18 seconds left. McClendon hit one
of two free throws for a four-point margin. The Wildcats came right down the floor, and Jeff Anderson nailed a
layup. Following a Davidson timeout, William Cook had trouble.

See Hoops on page 15

Rugby welcomes spring with win
By Warren Buford
Sports writer

On Saturday afternoon, the Davidson men’s rugby team enjoyed the luxury of a moist field and good weather and used
the elements on its way to a 56-7 rout of Southwest Virginia Community College.

RUGBY

In this lopsided win, coming two weeks after a preseason victory over arch-rival UNCC, the Wildcats showcased the results of
some tough offseason training. Newcomer Will Cowan played smart and well, while sophomores Will Baldwin, Thayer Long, and Chris Smith
helped the scrum with aggressive defense and tantalizing force. As usual, Graham Powell and Frank Killian kept the opposition down
with hard hitting and clutch passes. Freshman Hank Ackerman scored the first try and senior John Walsh also added a
single try. But on this day, four seniors showed some of their talents that have made them stars of the
team. Team captain Simon Priestly scored a career-high 31 points, with three tries and eight successful point-after kicks. Jeremy Potter
also had a hat trick, scoring one try by soaring over three defenders to dive on the ball in the
try zone. Mike Kessler bear-hugged much of the competition and sup-

See Mike on page 15

By Mike Guggenheimer
Sports writer

If you ever pass by the football weight room late at night and hear the clang of metal plates from
within, don’t worry.

SPORTS FEATURE

It’s not a stowaway trying to hide out in the room and escape the attention of Baker officials. And it’s
probably not a burglar, althoughThe person inside could probably thwart any burglar. That’s senior Bill Gabriel inside the room, training
hard for his next weightlifting competition. Currently, he’s fifth in the nation in his 83 kg weight class, competing against
others who don’t also have the other demands of Davidson to deal with. Olympic-style weightlifting, as Gabriel is quick to
point out, is not the same as the powerlifting version of the sport that most of us are familiar with.
Olympic lifters throw the weight over their heads in two ways: the clean and jerk and the snatch. Unlike powerlifting,
“the sport requires a combination of strength, coordination and finesse,” Gabriel says. He also stresses that “there is a large
mental component involved. ... I can see it as a form of expression, definitely.” Like all sports that require highly-tuned
skills, “being able to do what you see in your mind is important,” Gabriel says.

The senior from Costa Mesa, Calif., started lifting in high school to strengthen himself for other sports. His coach in
high school suggested he try competitive lifting. Since then, he has spent four summers training at the Olympic Training Center
in Colorado Springs, Colo. He placed second at the Collegiate Championships in 1993 and ‘94. Last year, he placed fifth
in the Senior Nationals and second at the Olympic Festival in the summer. Now, his eyes are set on the
‘96 Nationals. At the Nationals, Gabriel is shooting for the top three. The sport is dictated mostly by training, so
there are usually very few surprises in competition. “It’s a skill you cultivate over time,” Gabriel says. In a sport
where the hardest workers excel, Gabriel is no exception.

Gabriel trains about 20 hours a week. His exercises are specific, performing “a lot of squats and a lot of
exercises that simulate the pull and jerk motions,” he says. Along with the hours of training, he says that it
is important to get many calories each day to help the recuperation process. As graduation looms on the horizon, Gabriel
hesitantly says that the ‘96 Nationals may be the end of the line in terms of highly competitive lifting. But
that doesn’t mean Gabriel will be through with the sport. He finds lifting mind-clearing and will probably lift in some
capacity throughout his life. “It doesn’t take much,” he says. “Just a bar.” He says that the Olympic-lifting style is
starting to be used.

See Weight on page 16

Sailors take to cold waters
By ANDREW COLE
Sports writer

This weekend, the Wildcats’ sailing team hosted the first annual Davidson Spring Open Regatta. Michigan and UNC-Wilmington each entered two
crews to compete for the Wildcat Perpetual Trophy.

SAILING

Saturday’s racing was held in very light and shifty conditions, consequently everyone was up and down except Dave Saudek and
Brice Ivy who finished the day in first with a second and two third places. Racing on Saturday ended early
when everyone decided to go on to other activities rather than wait for wind. Sunday turned out much better. Although
the wind was still pretty inconsistent, there was enough to get off four races. Davidson swept first through third places
overall due to strong team finishes on Sunday. Next weekend, the team will go to the Charleston Spring Intersectional Regatta.
Davidson's team of Graham Ernst and Lara Onkey finished in first place with a low score of 17.25 for the
seven races, while Andrew Cole and Thu Thieu were second at 18.25. Also for the Wildcats, Dave Saudek and Brice
Ivey took third with 22.75 points.
