RTS & LIVING MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1995

Ditch the Chubby Hubby and grab a friend

Students use massaging as a weapon against stress

By Mary Towles ALLISON
Staff Writer

Feel like you’ve been trapped in the dungeon for ages? Feel like there’s no end to burning the midnight oil? Finally, a solution... find a SHOC member or friend who attended Wednesday night’s workshop on massages and you'll get the relief you deserve.

“Ahhhh,” is all I have to say. The massage workshop was the most relaxation I’ve gotten in weeks... maybe even months. I could go to sleep right now but, unfortunately, I have deadlines to meet and homework to do. As the vicious cycle of Davidson’s workload gears up to take students for yet another spin, SHOC’s well-timed clinic made relaxation in our tense atmosphere a reality. The only thing missing was Enya playing in the background and dim lighting.

At the beginning of the session, we were taught the proper sitting positions to give a massage and five simple steps to achieve a state of euphoria, freeing us from stress and the stigmas of everyday life. What exactly was this weird convention of needy stress relievers? Why did the sign say to wear loose clothing, bring a towel, and a friend? Although it may sound strange, the logic is simple: the students must be completely comfortable and without worries.

SHOC members were armed with three types of oils used for massage: multi-purpose vegetable oil—straight from your mama’s kitchen cabinet—baby powder, and lotion. It was stressed that a lubricant really should be used in order to achieve fluid motion. In order to ensure a relaxed state, we were told to never break contact with our partner and to communicate freely. If the massager is digging in too hard or putting the student in any sort of pain, tension instead of relaxation is bound to surface.

I’ve taken the liberty of outlining five steps to achieve a more relaxed you. Before I do though, make sure you or your partner is lying flat on the floor (no pillows please), and your partner is either beside you or straddling your back (SHOC members recommend straddling because it’s much easier on the massager). Get comfortable!

* Turn down the lights and turn up your favorite relaxing soundtrack (my personal favorite is The Last of the Mohicans) or other soothing music. Apply massage oil and enjoy! The first technique involves running your hands up your partner’s back (with some pressure but not so much that it’s painful) and down by his or her ribcage. Do this in a slow fluid motion so the friend...

See Chubby on page 14

Friends straddle friends to give massages.

Homesickness

Freshmen struggle to make Davidson a new home

By Laura BENOIT
Staff Writer

Homesickness. It is a big, scary word that no one likes to use, but I believe that, in the past months, even though many do not readily admit it, the memory of the “home” we once had has at one time or another crept into our mind as we strive to gain control over our new lives here. If you imagine life as a river that we must cross, college is another stepping stone in that river that we can catch our balance (and our breath) on as we “wade” through life. What many may not realize (either they’ve never given it much thought or they just don’t have much time to think about anything besides studying) is that it was actually a pretty big leap to come here, especially after just having found a state of balance (equilibrium, as the scientists call it) in our “previous” lives. Of course, the size of the “leap” varies from person to person; many might be quite skilled at settling in if they...Had to frequently readjust to new schools because of moving around a lot, others might have a much harder time becoming a part of the community they have just entered because they are just not used to starting over and being outgoing. Then there are those who have emerged from their shells and have gone blossoming into a state of craziness — in a positive sense, of course. Basically speaking, we have all pretty recently lost what little security our lives had at home. Our security consisted mainly of parents, brothers and sisters, really close friends, and even girlfriends or boyfriends (each being people whom we didn’t always get along with). These people lent us constant love, support, encouragement, and a helping hand whenever we needed it. Please do not get me wrong, they still do; only now they are simply not physically or geographically as close to us, thus making it difficult for them to actually “hold” our hand when we need them to as we face difficult decisions and situations. By “home” I do not simply mean family and relatives — especially if you are coming from a boarding school; “home” encompasses a number of other things that determine our daily lives.

Rob Kosicki: "If you imagine life as a river that we must cross, college is another stepping stone in that river that we can catch our balance (and our breath) on as we ‘wade’ through life.”

Brandon Clarke: "Talking to parents and/or siblings (yes, some of us have really good relationships with them!), seeing special people (whom we now talk to on the phone; many relationships are literally ‘on the line’ now!), fulfilling certain rituals (like feeding pets), teasing siblings, going to bed before 1 a.m., talking to your best friend all night and getting the latest gossip (although I am sure that by now similar sources for that have been discovered), hanging out with friends (a lot of that is done here, too), and eating ‘good’ food (taste is relative to the individual, but I think many of us agree on this subject), etc... the list is endless!"

When asked about what freshmen missed the most, the answer was almost unanimously furry; indeed, pets never complain and love you even when you are just not in a good mood. Now we must resort to squirrels, fish, and skunks for animal friends; the idea, however, of cuddling up to a skunk is not comforting. Stuffed animals have turned out to be good alternatives, too, but they are just not as effective: they don’t really hug you back!

When I first arrived here, I felt like I was in summer camp (the silly mixers added a lot to that, too). In fact, I still do; the only difference being that I sleep in a bed (which is almost as hard as the floor) and have homework! There are really not a lot of things that you could do at home that are not available here; the only thing that I can think of is having my own room, a place where I could escape to at any time when I wanted to be alone. Here, if you do not want to be disturbed, you essentially have to lock yourself either in your car or one of those group study rooms in the library.

The “Big Brother-Big Sister” program was set up to help us ease into our new environment by having someone to talk to who has not only been in our situation but who also has a lot in common with us. Unfortunately, some Brothers and Sisters have neglected their younger ones (yes, you do have good excuses: work, work, work...) and do not realize the weight of this neglect. We are in a completely new environment and, unless you attended a July...

See Home on page 15.