THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Black History Month

February celebrates history and solidarity with a multitude of events

By ANNIE CARR
Staff writer

If you ate at Vail Commons on Wednesday, February 1 or saw Glory at the Union on February 5 or 8, you have already become a part of Davidson College’s month-long celebration of black history and culture. The goal of Black History Month is to supplement the common version of American history by reminding whites and blacks alike of the many, frequently-overlooked contributions which African-Americans have made to our society. The whole school is invited to attend this celebration, which was planned in coordination with a number of different student interest groups.

“Students should be challenged to go beyond their comfort zone, to come and take advantage of these activities,” says Assistant Dean of Students John Eaves. Eaves oversaw the planning of this celebration, along with leaders from BSC, SERCH, the College Union, the Ethnic Studies Department, the Dean Rusk program, the Counseling Center, and the Chaplain’s Office.

Starting on January 16 with the recognition of Martin Luther King, Jr.’s birthday, the Chaplain’s Office organized a worship service. Beginning on January 28th, the Dean Rusk program sponsored Africa Week, a survey of African art, food, music, and politics. This weekend students had the opportunity to enter into more contemporary black life. The Black Greek Association from Winthrop University performed “Steppin’ and Jammin’,” a collage of different social dance routines, in the 900 Room Friday night. Sunday night, Adilah Barnes performed “I AM THAT I AM: Woman, Black,” a one-woman play about the historical contributions of African-American women. (See the Arts & Living section for more details.)

More festivities are still to come. William Raspberry, a columnist with The Washington Post, will lecture on February 16. The Sons of Abraham, a male acappella group from Baltimore, will sing everything from gospel to contemporary music. On February 22, Charles Joyner, a professor from Coastal Carolina University who specializes in the history of the Gullah people of South Carolina, will give a talk on the development of black culture. Davidson’s own students will sound off on the black experience in School Daze, a parody of their life at Davidson, on Monday the 23rd at 7 p.m. in the 900 Room. All of these events are free to Davidson students, including the jazz performance in the Commons, which will take place on Tuesday the 28th at 5:30 p.m.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1995

FREE COKE, ANYONE?

Rob Kosicki

Students in Senior Apartments discovered that a Coke machine was malfunctioning, giving away free Cokes. But being honor-bound Davidson students, of course they left them alone.

Drunken students vandalize Outpost art

By RANDY HARTWELL
Staff writer

During efforts to enhance the Union Outpost’s atmosphere with student artwork at the Jumpin’ Java Café on Saturday, a group of students interrupted progress by painting drug-related slogans over the newly-finished murals. The coffeehouse, which ran from 2 to 6 p.m., provided paint for art majors and other interested students to beautify the entry and one other wall.

Of her intentions for the painting day, Outpost Committee chair

Meeting from page 1

requirements for trustees and the president. The issue will be focused on at the spring retreat for the trustees. Blueprints for a new College Union, possibly in Johnston Gym, were also passed around. SGA President Bill Gullan felt that the plans were “incredible ... I wish that every student could have seen them. I hope that we can do it.”

According to Rosenbach, the trustees met without much input from the students. The SGA had attempted to get a greater number of students at the trustee meeting, but it did not happen. Rosenbach says, “ItIt is frustrating that the students have worked so hard to get minimal attention from the trustees,” SGA Vice President Warren Buford feels that this problem cannot be entirely blamed on trustees. “We haven’t put an aggressive effort into trying to get an adequate representation in trustee meetings.” The Trustee Executive Council discussed putting more students on trustee committees, which provides some hope for the future. The increased representation was one of Rosenbach’s big pushes as SGA president. The trustees also inducted seven new trustees, which according to Dr. John Kelton, the Assistant to the President, is “higher than usual,” which can be attributed to a large number of retiring trustees. The new trustees are Barbara Campbell Davis, Dr. Laurie L. Dunn ‘77, Jane Craig Hanes, Rebecca B. Jones, The Hon. Boyce F. Martin ‘57, Jerry T. Norvell Jr. ‘58, R. David Sprinkle ‘66, and William Thompson ‘65.

Work for The Davidsonian. Write for News. Call Mary Clare at -2148.

Sherry Abdelaaty says she wanted to “give student artists a chance to mold the outpost into something new and exciting, and to get their artwork displayed in an unconventional way. They were thrilled to be able to leave a mark.” That mark was blemished around 6 p.m., when five drunken students entered the Outpost, picked up brushes, and began painting marijuana-related slogans over other students’ art. Outpost Committee member and contributing artist Mike Bodé says, “They came in with beer in hand, slapping insults on a wall. I don’t call that art; I call that self-gratification.” He adds, “The respect of other artists wasn’t maintained. It didn’t mean anything beyond them; they just wanted to get their names up there.” The group was informed that their graffiti was not appreciated and warned that it would probably be painted over. “As promised, committee members stayed after the coffeehouse to salvage the damaged work. Much of it remains intact, and students are encouraged to come to the Outpost to enjoy it.

December 22, 1994
Hit and Run accident, Martin Court. Unknown driver hit left side driver’s door of a legally parked car.

January 15, 1995
Vandalism, north exterior Watts residence hall. Unknown person damaged window glass and warped door.

January 21, 1995
Theft, north exterior Sentelle residence hall. Unknown person rode away unlocked bicycle.

January 27, 1995
Theft, Cunningham Fine Arts Building. VCR taken from choral room.

February 6, 1995
Vandalism, Little residence hall. Unknown persons broke window by striking with telephone receiver.

February 8, 1995
Belk residence hall. Harassing phone calls.

New Age Hair Designers
A full-service salon for men and women

DAVIDSON STUDENTS, GET READY FOR SPRING BREAK!!!
TANNING SPECIAL: 10 SESSIONS FOR $25 OR ONE MONTH OF UNLIMITED SESSIONS FOR $39
Remember, your Student I.D. gets you $1.00 off services.

Gullan agrees that the issue is a priority. “It was an honor to attend their meetings as a student representative. However, I am cognizant of how they have snubbed us in the past. They were very polite and receptive to me, and despite problems in the past, I hope they will allow me and the students to play an instrumental role in Davidson College decision-making.”

CONNIE AND GINA:
Full Set of Nails for only $40.00 (thru February)
Select from a line of Paul Mitchell, Matrix, Logic, Nexus, Sebastian, and Goldwell hairstyling products. Manicures also available.

Southlake Shopping Center
Next to Harris Teeter
Cornelius, NC
892-3067

Located at The Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St., Cornelius
(704) 892-7030