THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1995

15

FIELD HOCKEY

The women’s field hockey team practices for this upcoming weekend. They play two home games against Ohio University on Saturday
at 1 p.m. and Wake Forest on Sunday at 2 p.m. Look for senior stars Holly Kledis and Nicole Ficeto
as they lead their team into another victorious season.

Rob Kosicki

Kohlenstein not asst. to soccer program

On Monday, Davidson officials denied a report in The Charlotte Observer that former UNCC soccer coach Frank Kohlenstein has been
hired as an assistant to the men’s soccer program.

The paper reported in some editions Monday that the long-time 49ers coach had been hired.

In fact, Kohlenstein has been helping the team in an unofficial capacity, but he is not on salary.

Kohlenstein has recently been coaching the Raleigh Flyers in the U.S. International Soccer League. The report apparently originated from a
TV broadcast that first made the erroneous report.

Matt Pitzer

Cross Country sprints into new season

By WILL BRADSHAW
Staff writer

Youth is a common theme this year, as both men’s and women’s cross country are dominated by younger runners. Despite
that relative lack of experience, however, both teams hope to improve on last year’s conference finishes.

CROSS COUNTRY

The women’s team, which consists of 12 runners (eight freshmen, one sophomore, and three seniors) is led by senior co-captains
Phuong Nguyen and Marie Grisez, but the anticipated No. 1 runner is a freshman, Suzy Burr.

“I don’t really feel a lot of pressure,” Burr said, “The times are a lot closer together in college than
they were on my high school team, and there’s a bunch of people at the top. We can all work
together as a team.”

The top four runners from last year’s team, which finished fifth in the conference, are gone, and coach Beth Puckett
said that this season will hinge on the development of the freshmen runners.

“We have gotten a little bit better each of the last three or four years, but this season our team
is very young,” she said.

“We are trying to work the team concept very hard because with so many freshmen we really need to be
a team in order to perform well.”

While the men’s team does not have quite the same preponderance of freshmen as the women, seven of their nine
runners are freshmen or sophomores.

“This is a very young team,” said men’s coach Gary Andrew. “We have one senior (Eric Collings), but he has
never run cross country before.”

Andrew was very impressed with the condition in which his runners arrived at school, saying that it has been about
five years since a group has trained as much over the summer.

Like their female counterparts, the men have their own impressive recruit in Keith Gordon. And when Gordon is added to
the returning core of sophomore Josh Cookson and last year’s No. 1 runner and team captain, Dave Foss, a junior,
and sophomore Tripp Franklin, Andrew has a strong group of four runners. He said that finding a consistent fifth man
to add to the bunch would allow this team to do better than they have in previous years.

“It’s very exciting being a freshman on a Division 1 team,” Gordon said. “I do feel a little bit of
pressure, but I keep it in the back of my mind to do my best. Everybody has bad days, and
if I have a bad race or bad practice, I just have to forget about it and move on.”

The women’s race is 5,000 meters long, which translates to three and 1/8 miles, and the men’s race is five
miles long.

To get a team score for both men and women, the top five finishers on each team have their places
added together, and the lowest total score wins.

Both the men’s and women’s teams had their first meet this past weekend (September 2) at Appalachian State.

Other schools that competed in the meet (besides Davidson and Appalachian State) were Wake Forest, UNC-Asheville and UNCC. The Wildcats
host the Davidson Open/Alumni Invitational this weekend.

Fish from page 14

terbugs or Buzzbaits over rock points, stumps and around boat docks can be great during either of the lowlight periods.

One secret that I have picked up on, however, is to fish the areas that appear to lack good fishing
structure, yet are near cover. I have found that some of the largest fish in the lake sit in extremely
thick cover during the day, and at feeding times, they prowl the deepwater areas nearby for helpless baitfish, snakes, lizards
and even small ducks. While fishing in these areas can be tedious, once the big fish hits, it will be
worth it.

Fishing this time of year might require strange hours, but imagine walking into your 8:30 class having already caught a
five-pound largemouth. Believe me, there is no better way to start off a day. See ya on the water!

Attention Seniors: Go to the Career Services meeting on September 7th.

Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break Trips!

Sell 8 Trips & Go Free! Best Trips & Prices!

Bahamas, Cancun, Jamaica, Florida!

Call Spring Break Travel! 1-800-678-6386

STS, America's #1 Student Tour Operator is now hiring

Commons Corporate Center, 1344 Ashton Reed, First Floor, Hanover, MD 21076

Write for Sports. Talk to Schoon (aka Matt) at -2148.

WELCOME BACK STUDENTS!

Sculptured Nails * French Manicures Pedicures * Tanning Booth At The Duchess we offer you a day of stress-free pampering.

New additions to our store:
- Facials
- Skin care
- Facial Tanning
Ask for Peggy

TANNING SPECIAL: 10 visits for $33.00

CONNIE AND MICHELLE: Full Set of Nails for only $40.00 (thru February)

Located at the Chair Factory 20700 N. Main St., Cornelius (704) 892 - 7030
