SPORTS MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1995 13

Soccer plays well, but suffers three defeats
UNCC, Furman, and Duke frustrate the Wildcats in close games

By WILL BRADSHAW
Staff Writer

Rival UNCC invaded Richardson Field Sunday and was able to escape with a 2-1 victory over the Cats.

MEN’S SOCCER

The first half was controlled by the 49ers, who tallied seven shots and three corner kicks in the opening period, compared to two shots and zero corners for the Wildcats, but neither team was able to score. In the second half, though, the 49ers scored two quick goals to take a commanding lead. With four minutes 52 seconds remaining in the game, midfielder Ian O’Brien pulled the Wildcats within a goal off a crossing pass from Nick Troiano. That started a furious rally to knot the score, but UNCC was able to foil those opportunities and grab the win.

Earlier in the week, the Wildcats played third-ranked Duke on Wednesday and conference rival Furman on Friday in their first two home games of the year. Davidson took early leads in both contests, but both Furman and Duke were able to claw back into a tie and score late goals as each took wins, also by the score of 2-1.

“We should have beat Duke,” said Rob Ukrop, former Davidson star and 1992 player of the year who was in town. “The opportunity was there, and we were a little unlucky. (Robert) Clarke (the junior forward who leads the nation in goals scored) had a couple good chances. The next time he’ll stick those in the back of the net.”

With 58 seconds left in the first half against Duke, Clarke received the ball after two quick passes from junior forward/midfielder Bryce Jewett and junior striker Dennis Buck. Clarke buried the ball into the lower left side of the net from about 16 yards out, putting Davidson up 1-0. Duke got the equalizer with 25:41 remaining when Brian Kelly, a junior midfielder for the Blue Devils, broke through Davidson’s defense and chipped the ball past diving goalie Alex Deegan. Duke freshman Josh Henderson got the game-winning goal after Davidson was unable to clear the ball. The opportunity came on a counterattack by Duke, after Davidson barely missed scoring the winning goal itself. The Blue Devils outshot Davidson 15 to 14 for the game, but 11 of the Blue Devils' shots came in the second half.

“I really thought we played well against Duke,” coach Charlie Slagle said. “We did what we needed to do to win, and it was clear that whoever scored that third goal was going to win. Duke did what it took.”

Slagle was not as pleased with the Wildcats in Friday’s game against Furman, saying that at the beginning, effort was lacking. “We have to make things happen, and we didn’t do that (Friday),” he said. “It would have put us in the driver’s seat for the conference championship at 4-0. Now we have to look within ourselves and see why we didn’t win.”

Phil Julien put Davidson ahead with 17:46 remaining in the first half when his header off Ryan Northington’s corner kick beat the Furman goalie. The Paladins knotted the score with 6:10 left in the half when Furman quickly countered a Davidson attack and ended up with a numbers advantage that Bubba Self converted into a goal. No one scored again until Brian Nickerson got the game winner with 2:59 remaining in overtime.

“It was a good hard-fought game,” Furman coach Davy Allison said. “Both teams played great. (The Wildcats) had some tough losses they could have won, so they’re doing a lot of things right. The luckhas got to change for them.” Against Duke, Clarke took six of the 14 Davidson shots, converting one into a goal, but Furman kept the marking on him much tighter and only allowed him a couple of good chances. “Furman respects Clarke as a goal scorer,” Ukrop said. “(The Paladins) know that the guy who is going to put the ball in the back of the net for Davidson is Robert. The Duke mentality is that if he doesn’t play for us then he can’t be that good. What you’re going to see in the future is (Clarke) will create chances for other people.”

Allison mentioned Clarke as one of their concerns, but also said he wanted his team to keep the pressure on Davidson. “Deegan has been a pillar of strength for them for a number of years, and Clarke is always dangerous,” Allison said. “He has scored many goals. We wanted to keep it wide and get it around the back, which we did several times,” Allison said.

Deegan had 12 saves in the three games, giving the Wildcats the opportunity to win them all. Julien suffered an injury against Furman and was not able to continue play. It is unclear, Slagle said, when he will return. He did not dress for Sunday’s game, but was on the bench with the team.

Wildcats lose heartbreaker in last seconds to Guilford
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Writer

GREENSBORO — It began so auspiciously. Shreve Ariail scooped up a fumble on Guilford’s second offensive play and lumbered 57 yards for the early lead.

FOOTBALL

Tommy Dugan’s quarterback keeper gave the Wildcats an astounding 13-0 lead not even six minutes in. But as Quakers kicker Chris Meehl’s field goal split the uprights with no time remaining, earning Guilford (2-1) an emotional 31-28 triumph, Davidson (1-3) felt the sting of defeat for the third straight Saturday, this being perhaps the hardest loss of all.

Although on the losing end, Davidson did play well. After last week’s shutout at Emory & Henry, the Wildcats offense recovered admirably. Its 22 first downs more than doubled last week’s output of 10. Freshman tailback Lorenzo Moll continued his steady production, collecting 61 yards on 16 carries and scoring on a 10-yard screen pass from Dugan. Big freshman tight end Wes Jones emerged as one of the top Davidson receivers with four catches for 48 yards. And the Wildcats attack registered a total team effort in an impressive, 18-play, 77-yard touchdown drive. Mike Cowles’s 4-yard scoring reception completed the methodic drive and tied the game at 28 with 13:29 to play.

The Davidson defense was strong as usual, but again overworked (Guilford ran 77 plays to Davidson’s 62) and victimized by poor field position. Captain James Cassidy played well again, accumulating 12 tackles, 10 unassisted. The dominant senior lineman also collected three sacks, running his career total to 19.5, a new Davidson record. After the game, coach Tim Landis voiced strong feelings about Cassidy: “There’s not a harder working kid (and) there’s not a single person who exemplifies a Davidson College football player more so than James.”

Freshman Ben Spivey also continues to impress, playing an integral role on the defensive front despite being undersized for his position. “Spivey has more raw potential than any defensive lineman to come here in a while. ... Ben’s not just going to be a good player, he already is,” declared Landis.

Other key Wildcats defenders were captains Bo Bartholemew (11 tackles) and Will Robinson (eight), Dan Dearing (nine), Chris Hess (eight), and Kevin Graham (six).

There is no denying that the

See Close one on page 16