OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 27, 1995

Ike Bailey

We haven't done enough

“Get that flashlight outa my face”

Follow-up article

Every objective story has two points of view. I wrote an article last week about the practice of stopping visitors on campus. The story was written to express an African-American student’s perspective about the issue. This week I will focus on the officer’s perspective.

Imagine a stranger walking on campus. He is not stopped by an officer because the officer fears future allegations. Later on, that same visitor commits a major crime on campus, which may have been prevented had the officer intervened. What should he have done? This is the dilemma campus officers are faced with.

Officers are expected to do their jobs, without prejudice, in order to keep us safe. Yet they are made to hesitate because of constant questioning. What if they are tired of responding to articles like mine? What if they are tired of answering questions from the Dean of Student’s Office? Would you rather they not stop strangers for fear of future questioning? Or would you rather they stop too many people, if that meant keeping you safe?

Our society seldom views police officers as moral people when race is an issue. This may be unfortunate. Concerning the highly publicized incident that occurred a few weeks ago, the officers had a different view. Their reports show that the questioning of the African-American males occurred after the disturbance at the Court party had already been checked. As the officer drove away, he approached what appeared to be a strange car. He could not see inside because the windows were tinted. So he was not harassing a black male, he was questioning a strange male. The other vehicles on the scene were not called for.

Charles Barrus

Hello? Gross!!

A column with some interesting hindsight

The first thing I did as I rolled out of bed one morning during my spring break in Destin, Florida, was to pick out the sports section from the newspaper that lay outside the door of our hotel room. I then headed for my morning rendezvous with the bathroom.

Not very long after I perched myself atop the cold toilet seat I realized that the sports page wasn’t going to be of sufficient length for this particular visit. War and Peace would have been a more appropriate choice.

I eventually finished with the paper. Since I wasn’t in much of a position to go get something else to read, I began looking around the bathroom for something to entertain me. My eyes immediately transfixed on an object installed just above the toilet paper rack. It was a telephone. A telephone in the bathroom?

I tried to figure out just what purpose this served, but the answer eluded me. I mean, if there is one time that I don’t want to be talking with someone, it’s when I’m on the john. It’s just embarrassing: I mean, what do you say, “let me put you on hold for a second while I drop something off and do some paperwork”?

Our hotel was fairly nice, and I’m sure they just meant this as a convenient amenity, probably designed for the busy executive on the run. Or is that the busy executive with the runs? I’m not sure which, but I do know that I personally don’t like doing business while I’m doing my business, if you know what I’m getting at.

When I go to drop a few friends off at the lake, I have never felt the need to call someone up and tell them about it. However, as I mentioned before, I was extremely bored. I realized that I could have some fun with this phone as I passed the time. So I called up my friends in the room next to mine and told them I had something to which they had to listen. When they asked what, I dangled the receiver by the cord and lowered it into the bowl a little ways. I kept it there long enough for them to hear a noise that they had probably never heard on a telephone before. Needless to say, they were as thoroughly disgusted as I was amused.

After I called room service and ordered a four-egg omelet to be delivered to my bathroom door, I continued with my fun and games. I called the front desk and asked them if they knew where I could perhaps get some Ex-Lax. I then dangled the receiver down in the bowl and repeated my trick. I got back on and told the bewildered person at the front desk to never mind, it looked like I wasn’t going to be needing that Ex-Lax after all.

I was now hooked. I called up the local Taco Bell and asked to speak to the manager. After she got on the line I told her that I was planning on suing her restaurant. When she asked why, I...gave her a reason I don’t think she’ll soon forget. By this point, my omelet had arrived, so I took a little break, and as I ate, I reflected. I sure don’t know who came up with the idea of putting a phone in a bathroom, but I kinda like it. It lends a whole new meaning to the term “talkin’ crap.”

Instead, common practice dictates that when an officer is not on a specific call, he has the right to give assistance. And by their account, many of the officers either stayed briefly or did not step out of their vehicles. Knowing this, should this be viewed as a possible discriminatory practice? Should we become more concerned over being stopped or not being stopped? The Davidson campus police force does everything it can to make our community safe. They try their best to make minorities feel welcome as well. I know, from personal knowledge, they do their jobs well and without prejudice. Maybe we should commend their work ethic rather than attack their character. Why do we seem to alienate the very people who try to make us comfortable? There is not a good answer. The perceived notion of discrimination is nothing more than a symptom; there is a much larger problem. The real problem lies with us. We have allowed racism and discrimination to cloud our judgment, and we are all responsible. We haven’t done enough to make this a color-accepting society. We haven’t done enough to ensure that each incident involving whites and blacks is not turned into a racial one. We haven’t done enough to uncloud the judgments of our families and future generations. WE HAVEN’T DONE ENOUGH!

We question every move the campus police make. Why? We have to question motives because our society has yet to give us another outlet. The motives of the police have to be questioned as well as my motives for writing articles because questioning is necessary. Collectively, we haven’t grown up enough to have any other practice. Questioning is needed; attacking is misguided. While working for Love of Learning this summer, my roommate, an African-American, was stopped by campus police. He did not get upset and was not surprised at being stopped. Instead, he was comforted to know that the officer was just doing his job. Being stopped allowed him to feel a lot safer on this campus. Being a campus police officer is tough. If they stop strangers, their very moral fiber is questioned. If they don’t, they may be jeopardizing the safety of many people. We should only ask them to do their job in a courteous and conscientious manner. We should not attack their motives. Let us all be reminded that they have created this extremely safe environment that we now inhabit!

Katie McKelvie

Strange things are afoot

Yes, you might think that the Davidson/Lake Norman/Cornelius area is no more than an unassuming mélange of small-town temperament and fast food convenience. Oh, but how mistaken you are! Below this veneer of pacific normalcy lies a bubbling well of intrigue and mystery. Yes, it’s true. Recently, I have observed a few bizarre and unusual local puzzles worthy of repeating:

1) Why is there braille on the drive-through First Union money machine in Cornelius?
2) Why are there three rows of faculty/staff parking at the VAC, and less than ten spaces for students? To my knowledge, the yellow parking line art contingent includes only a handful of professors, Chris Hoveland, and the VAC janitor. Even if they had two cars each (including the Jaguar)...
3) Why are there 11 places to get your haircut in the vicinity of Cornelius and Davidson (I verified this in the yellow pages), but not one place to buy pantyhose (besides the illustrious Roses)? Personally, I only need them for date functions, but what about the working female, and perhaps male, population? I can eat Mexican food at four different restaurants with a brand new perm, yet I can’t get a decent pair of dark nude hose.
4) Why is there a drive-through Coke machine at the empty gas station across from Ben and Jerry’s? Who put it there?
5) Finally, what is all the fatback on the tables in the rear of Dover’s for? Shouldn’t it be refrigerated? Do people go to Dover’s to purchase fat, or is it an impulse item?

Evidently, things are not what they seem. Perfunctory glances of tranquil spring days do not reveal the underbelly of life at Exits 28 & 30. Do all my observations signal mere coincidence, or perhaps a pattern of the perverse and bizarre amongst us? Who knows. The conundrums continue, so take note. Strange things are afoot!

If you want to write for Opinions, call Jeff Kent at 2148.