4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 1995

Residence Life faces an overwhelming midterm season

By Beth Lindsey

When Davidson students headed home to enjoy Christmas vacation, staff members of the Residence Life Office braced themselves for a
chaotic midterm season. RLO staff member Debby Young is in charge of coordinating room vacancies and availabilities for those students
who are changing their housing status. She says, “It has been absolutely overwhelming. This has certainly been the most challenging
midterm season for me personally in the past ten years.”

The pace of Young's job picked up in the fall of last semester as she began her investigation of those
who would be leaving or returning for the spring semester of 1995. Young says, “It’s just difficult because there is
no overall list of all those abroad and no guarantee when they will return. In fact, many offices depend on
us for that sort of information. Room changes involve not only the coordination of available rooms with students, but also
changes in the entire voice mail system and in student information obtainable at the Union desk.”

Students who were abroad for the fall semester of 1994 had the option of putting themselves on the waiting list
for a room when they returned this spring. Those students on the waiting list were given first priority. Says Young,
“The waiting list is absolutely sacred. I go right down the list and call each and every person giving them
the current room selection. If he or she does not choose to take an available room at that time, that
person will go down to the bottom of the list and wait to see what is left.”

With the help of the information found on both the waiting list and on the housing survey taken early in
the fall of last year, RLO was able to predict that there would be a record number of women returning
this spring and that there would be very few room vacancies. In order to create more space for returning female
students, the decision was made early to fill the Patterson Court house, PAX, with women and to allow five more
women to live off campus.

The housing ordeal of the midterm season involves not only students returning from abroad but also students trying to make
changes due to roommate difficulties. Young says, “I would definitely say that there were more room switches due to roommate
problems on the whole, and especially in the apartments this time.” Due to these early indications of possible housing problems,
RLO was able to make a total of 164 room changes, finding a place for all returning students to live.
While there are some juniors who had to be placed “down the hill” in Irwin, Akers, and Knox, Young says
there have not been many complaints. Despite preliminary fears of some overcrowding, there are still a few vacancies.

When asked if the larger percentage of acceptances for the current freshman class had anything to do with the ordeal
with housing this year, Young says, “We have recommended to admissions that numbers of incoming freshmen need to be cut,
and they have really taken heed by lessening recruiting this year. It is always a guessing game, though. We simply
have to fill as many beds as possible in order to fund the maintenance and the operation of the dorms.”

The enormous number of housing changes has also affected the resident advisors. Lori Blue, a junior resident advisor on fourth
Sentelle, says, “I had seven new people move onto the hall this semester. We had to have a hall meeting
the first week back primarily just to get to know each other.”

Outside group to study alcohol use on campus early this week

By Russ Tarver

A nine-person team from the Governor’s Institute on Alcohol and Substance Abuse, Inc. will spend this Monday and Tuesday at
Davidson. The team will consist of a psychiatrist, a health educator, an attorney, and a couple of students as part
of their Campus Alcohol Student Health Initiative program.

Dean of Students Tom Shandley explains that the purpose of this visit is not legislative, but will “assist the administration,
faculty and students in their efforts to promote a healthy and safe campus environment.” The team will have discussions with
a wide range of students, faculty, and staff representing all aspects of campus life. “They are concerned not about use
of alcoholor alcohol laws, they’re concerned about abuse of alcohol,” says Shandley. “A report released this summer talked about alcohol
as the number one health problem among college students in this country. They are looking at alcohol use in colleges
all across the state. Chapel Hill, UNCC, and Duke are all participants in this program. The report is intended solely
for the use of the college. ‘They’re not doing a state-wide report. It’s intended only to help us,” says Shandley.
“This is a group that has no vested interest in Davidson.” Some students question whether the study has anything to
do with self-selection weekend. Shandley insists that the timing is “nothing more than coincidental.” The Governor’s Institute will report their
findings and suggestions within six weeks.

Join the Davidsonian staff.

LOOKING FOR A SUMMER JOB?
Conference Assistants Needed

DUTIES INCLUDE:
Summer Conference Assistant, ALO Assistant, Resident Advisor for Ryburn, On-call and Weekend Duty

BENEFITS:
$6.58 per hour/46 hour week, Ryburn Apartment (shared), 18 Meal Plan when available, Great Learning Experience

Applications Available at the Residence Life Office
DEADLINE: February 8, 1995
Call x2188 or stop by for additional information

Photo by Rob Kosicki
The Davidson College gospel choir sings at the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. worship service and gospel song-fest. The worship
service also featured Nelson Johnson, the president of the Poor People’s Association in Greensboro, North Carolina.

Rusk continued from page 1

nominated Rusk as his Secretary of State. Retained by President Lyndon B. Johnson after Kennedy’s assassination, Rusk witnessed several monumental
foreign policy crises, including the Bay of Pigs Invasion, the Cuban Missile Crisis, heightened tensions with the Soviet Union, and
most notably, the Vietnam War.

The Vietnam struggle
Throughout this tumultuous decade, Rusk displayed a deep loyalty to the office of the Presidency and a consistent opposition to
communism. Historian Warren Cohen notes that like fellow Davidson alumnus President Woodrow Wilson, Rusk firmly believed in extending the blessings
of democracy and in the importance of multinational organizations to “oversee universal adherence to agreed principles of international behavior.” As
Secretary of State, Rusk was quite proud of his assistance in adding eight years to the period in history in
which no nuclear weapons were fired in anger.

While some of Dean Rusk’s policy decisions were the focus of sharp criticism, his strong character made manifest by his
steadfast adherence to a set of fundamental values was universally respected. Henry Kissinger once claimed that Dean Rusk “set a
standard of patriotism of public service that will never be exceeded. He was a great American and a great human
being.” President Clinton remarked that while the world has changed greatly since the 1960s, Dean Rusk’s principles of promoting freedom
and opposing tyranny “are as vital as ever.”

Despite his notoriety, Dean Rusk maintained important links to Davidson. Davidson President John Kuykendall remembers Rusk as “a man of
principle and goodwill.” Rusk always spoke positively of the College, made numerous trips to campus, and was involved in a
very successful 1987 campaign for Davidson. Kuykendall notes that Dean Rusk exhibited the character one wants in a Davidson graduate.
Rusk always maintained that Davidson graduates were those who would make a difference in the world. In 1950, the College
awarded Dean Rusk an honorary doctorate of laws. In 1985, the International Studies Program named in his honor was established.
Ambassador Jack Perry, Director of the Dean Rusk Program, notes that Rusk insisted on a living program dedicated to the
needs of the student body, not another building named in his honor. Perry describes Rusk as a man of the
highest stature who never forgot his roots and always exhibited a sincere concern for others. Ambassador Perry has consciously tried
to model the Program on three of Rusk’s core values: humility, unpretentiousness, and the seriousness of foreign policy.

Dean Rusk was often criticized for his rigid Cold War analysis of the Vietnam War. But too often today’s decision
makers consider only the input of domestic political advisers and feasibility analysts before intervening in world affairs. For better or
for worse, Secretary Rusk’s decisions were motivated by his firmly grounded values. A full account of Dean Rusk’s life must
include his impact on world leaders and on Davidson students to consider the value of standing firm on one’s moral
convictions.

A memorial service conducted by President Kuykendall will be held for Dean Rusk on February 20, at 4 P.M., at
the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.
