THE DAVIDSONIAN BACK PAGE INTERVIEW | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1995

Just days before Rabin’s assassination, Israeli consul Eitan Surkis-Almog speaks with students about the Oslo II accord, the implications of
a Likud Party victory, and American perceptions of Israel.

Sometime this week...

What were some of the strengths and weaknesses from the original Declaration of Principles in 1993 and what kind of
efforts were made to build upon those in the recent addition in the 1995 Oslo II accord? In other words,
what strengths were reinforced and what weaknesses have been remedied in subsequent negotiations?

As you know, before 1993 we did not have any formal relations with the PLO. The PLO was a terrorist
organization that had declared that one of its objectives was the destruction of Israel, and, of course, we would not
recognize such an organization. But, with the secret negotiations between Israelis and the PLO leading up to the Declaration of
Principles in September 1993, this process opened the way for mutual recognition. At this time, Chairman Arafat sent letters to
President Rabin denouncing terrorism and his hope to live in peace and security with Israel. In return, Rabin sent a
letter back recognizing the PLO as the representative of the Palestinians.

The next step was a general set of principles called the Declaration of Principles. This agreement called for the gradual
transfer of power and authority to Palestinian hands. They set the time period for five years in which the Palestinians
would achieve this authority and control of their daily life. Now, the implementation of these principles was begun with the
Cairo Agreement in May 1994 in which all these general principles were worked out very carefully. In this agreement, also
known as the Gaza-Jericho Agreement, Palestinians gained control of the Gaza Strip and the small village of Jericho in the
West Bank. The importance of Jericho was probably more symbolic for Arafat to demonstrate that he had not abandoned the
West Bank. A month ago the second part of the agreement was finally signed: about the rest of the West
Bank.

I would say the most significant point we had to overcome with the peace process was the increased terrorism from
the opposition. I refer specifically to the terrorism of Islamic Jihad and Hamas and other extremist organizations. These forces were
opposed to the notion that the Palestinians would end their struggle against Israel. In other words, this conflict is not
over until they destroy the state of Israel. One of the good points is that the PLO has stopped the
use of terrorism. The major claim of the Israelis leading up to the Cairo Agreement was that the PLO should
crack down much harder on the Hamas and Islamic Jihad because it was really unbearable and it reduces the amount
of support for the peace process inside Israel because the population becomes skeptical and concerned. The reason is that by
killing Israelis they can kill the peace process, and this is one of the major weaknesses since May 1994. We
believe in the last couple of months the Palestinian Authority has realized the problem and has begun to crack down
much harder.

The last agreement signed in September 1995 was very complicated because there are much more Israeli citizens living in the
West Bank, around 130,000, while in the Gaza Strip...

CULTURAL CONVOY

Israeli Consul Eitan Surkis-Almog. Courtesy of Dean Rusk Program

Mr. Eitan Surkis-Almog was born in Haifa, Israel in 1961. He joined the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1986
and some of his subsequent posts have included the Jordan-PLO desk and as First Secretary of the Israeli Embassy in
Peru. He currently represents the Israeli consulate in Atlanta.

The U.S. should realize that improving the economic situation there will keep the peace. As much as it would cost,
it would still cost less than a...war. When you give aid, you give people hope, and where there is hope,
people will go for peace. Just yesterday, there was a huge economic summit in Amman, the capital of Jordan. Both
Israel and Arab countries were there, and one of the major developments was to establish a regional bank for development.
I cannot emphasize enough the importance of improved economic conditions not only for the welfare of people but for continuing
the peace process.

There is a tremendous deal of speculation about what the implications of a Likud Party victory in the upcoming elections
in Israel next year would mean in both the domestic and regional dimensions. Could you comment on this? It is
very hard to answer that question because the elections are one year from now and anything could happen. What we
know is that the Likud party leader has declared that he would keep the agreement as long as the Palestinians
kept their side. I believe any government in Israel would act according to the commitments of the previous government. We
are sure that the peace process with Palestinians is irreversible, so we have chosen one path and we should be
on the right track.

What is the Israeli government trying to do in order to promote the peace agreement among Israelis? The promotion of
the peace process would mean the stopping of the terrorist activities. The major threat to the support of the Israelis
to the peace process is terrorism. On the other hand, we know the benefits, and some people do not see
the benefits of the peace process right away. It is much more immediate and threatening for an Israeli to hear
about a bus being attacked, for example. It is not hard to see the benefits of the Amman Conference which
would develop the economies of the Middle East including Israel, and this is one of the benefits of the peace
process.

This is more on a personal level, but how would you like Americans to see Israel? What would be your
message to American youth as far as Israel is concerned? That is a good question. I wish we arrived at
a day when we did not have to talk so much about war and violence. I hope next time that
I come here we would be able to talk about how peace is going between Israel and Syria, for example.
Just like now we can talk about how peace is going on between Israel and Jordan. But more than that,
I hope we come to the time in which we forget that we had so many conflicts and wars between
Israel and Arabs. If I come here, you would ask me to say how life is in Israel and Israeli
society? How is the Israeli culture, for example? We want Americans to know that Israel is a normal society with
culture, good food, and other things. We want to expose more of this exciting and excellent culture.

BY ANDY BARWIG & YANTI ARDIE
