THE DAVIDSONIAN BACK PAGE INTERVIEW
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1994

After missing the first three weeks of class, Letitia Campbell returns from the Fourth World Conference on Women with stories, insights, and a refreshing feminist vigor.

September 22, 1995

How did you come to attend the conference?
Through the church. The Presbyterian Church (USA) sent a group of 35 people to the Non-Governmental Forum of the conference, and I applied to go with that group on a travel-study seminar.

Why did you go to the conference?
The trip embodied so many things that I was interested in. I’m interested in international issues. While I was in India I was doing research on non-governmental associations that worked with women. The opportunity to go to the NGO Forum was perfectly in line with those interests. I was also interested in traveling more in Asia, and I wanted to compare different parts of Asia. Part of the attraction was that it was in China. My involvement in the church has been pretty consistent through high school and college, mostly in women’s ministry. I felt like it was a good opportunity to synthesize all of those things.

How much conflict was there between the Chinese government and the delegates?
There were definitely things [the Chinese] could have done better to make the conference run more smoothly. There was a lot of security on certain days, and then there would be none. The facilities weren’t outstanding. The transportation was poor, and the accommodations were frustrating. But realistically, 45,000 people is a lot, so it would have been a difficult conference to hold anywhere. Regardless of all the hassles, the conference was successful.

Did the Chinese interfere with the conference proceedings?
They didn’t interfere at all at the governmental conference. The security was handled by the United Nations. At the Forum, the lesbian population got harassed. There were lots of plainclothes policemen around. There were some Tibetan women from other parts of the world who were harassed by Chinese Tibetan women. The main problem was the location so far away from the governmental conference. The trip was an hour and a half long to Beijing.

How much “culture shock” did you experience in China?
When I was at the conference I didn’t learn that much about China; I spent all day at the conference. After that, the culture shock was lessened for me because I was in India last year. I was also in big cities and was basically a tourist. The culture shock would have been greater in rural areas.

Can you explain the difference between the two forums?
On one hand you have the governmental conference, to which each government sent a delegation. All of those delegates worked on the official document, the Platform. In the Platform there are twelve different areas, each on a specific issue, such as health, poverty, education, and the girl child. They lay out the goals the conference sets for the next 5-10 years. The document is about 150 pages long, and for ten days they negotiate the language in official working groups.

In a wretched little town, called Huairou, the NGO Forum was held. Non-governmental organizations have held forums in conjunction with UN conferences. At the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, there were only 250 NGOs participating. At the Women’s Conference there were 2500 NGOs. The involvement of NGOs has expanded exponentially. It means that a lot of people have input. You could go to workshops on anything from women in different religions, education, specific projects, and social science research.

How did you divide your time between the two forums?
We were at the NGO Forum for about six days. Every NGO also got to send a number of delegates to the governmental conference as official observers. I was there representing the World Alliance of Reformed Churches. We caucused around the edge of the conference trying to influence specific language.

What issues tended to come up often in debate?
One issue was the rise of fundamentalism around the world, particularly nationalism and neo-Fascism. It’s such a global movement, and in most cases that’s a really bad thing for women because it means reverting to repressive practices. It means that people call on culture to excuse human rights abuses. The largest issue was the issue of women’s rights as human rights. When women experience violence, that’s a human rights abuse, and it should be treated that way.

FROM ALABAMA TO CHINA
Campbell and friend Deb Jones in Tiananmen Square. Courtesy of Letitia Campbell

Letitia Campbell is a Davidson senior from Mobile, Alabama. This month, she attended the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, China, as an official observer for the World Alliance of Reformed Churches. The conference of 45,000 delegates was convened to produce an international agreement on the rights of women. Campbell also attended the Non-Governmental Organizations (NGO) Forum in Huairou, China, a parallel gathering of human and women’s rights groups, church groups, relief agencies, and advocacy organizations. A political science major, Campbell...is particularly interested in international and women’s issues. She is the chair of the Women’s Issues Committee at Davidson, which sponsors speakers, workshops, and activities designed to increase awareness of issues of concern to women. She is also a member of the Union Board. Campbell has much experience traveling in other nations. She spent the fall semester of her junior year abroad in the Davidson program in India, and last summer she traveled to Malawi in southern Africa. The Presbyterian Church, where Campbell has long been active, enabled her to attend the conference.

I sat in the ninth row and waited in the rain for three hours to hear her speak. She did talk about China and its human rights abuses. At the NGO Forum, she talked about the role of NGOs in creating change. She talked a lot about women’s rights as human rights and the importance of educating the next generation of leaders. I learned that half of the world's population is under 25. . . . It's important that we talk about our strategy as young Americans for making change happen.

How did the conferences address religion and abortion? I couldn’t follow a lot of the final negotiations. By the time we got to Beijing, most of the language was already agreed upon. The only way the document dealt with religion was to say that it was oppressive to women. Almost all religions have been used to oppress women. At the conference, religious groups issued an intervention that said that religion can also be a liberating factor in women’s lives. I was happy to see that happen. Too often we recognize the oppression religion brings without recognizing the potential it has for liberation. Abortion was an issue that was avoided because of the lesson we learned in Cairo. The Population Conference was derailed because once people started talking about abortion, that took up the rest of the conference.

What were the influences of the Vatican and the Muslim world on the conference? The Vatican has been under fire because it has observer status as a state. Many people feel that the Vatican is not a state. The Muslim world definitely had an influence on the document.

How was Hillary Clinton received by the delegates? Did you notice strong disagreement between ethnic groups? I’m sure those things were important in the negotiation of the actual document. One of the things I did was participate in the youth conference with people from every continent. What was most interesting to me was that we all cared about the same things. There was a lot of common ground.

What do you believe are the biggest problems facing women? A lot depends on what part of the world you’re in. It’s astounding how many women are abused in their own homes. I attended a workshop on domestic violence, and the magnitude of the problem is the same everywhere. Selective abortions were also discussed. Here we hear reports about how girls and boys are treated differently in classrooms. In other countries, girls do not even go to school. [In other nations] it is a more severe problem, but it’s part of the same fabric.

How successful do you consider the conference as a whole? I think it was very successful. This conference proves that if you have 50,000 people who care about any issue, there is nothing that the weather or a closed country or the logistics can do to make it unsuccessful.

What was your most memorable experience? I thought the workshops were a great opportunity to hear how women in other parts of the world have solved similar problems. A lot of the energy at the conference was at the Forum. I was walking through a tent where there were displays about different NGOs. There was a woman from Africa at her booth. She started explaining to someone how to make an oven out of a tin can. It was easy to make, very cheap, very efficient, and used very little fuel. In about five minutes there were women from at least four continents gathered around her, and people very animatedly were asking questions. Here in this small corner of China, this woman was teaching something that would be immediately useful. Those changes are the ones that will happen immediately, and the legislative changes will take longer. The energy was at the NGO Forum, and the formality was at the UN conference.

Did you learn anything that particularly surprised you? I learned that half of the world’s population is under age 25. It made me think about how important it is for young people to be agents of change. There were 4500 young people there, about 10% of the conference. There were 80 young people on the delegations of their countries. It’s important that we talk about our strategy as young Americans for making change happen. As citizens of one of the most powerful nations.

See Campbell on page 5

BY DAVID SANTSCHI