THE DAVIDSONIAN: OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1995

Anger is defined as: “a feeling of extreme displeasure, hostility, indignation, or exasperation toward someone or something; rage; wrath; ire.”
In any arena where conflict is prevalent, anger plays a major role. Expression is difficult because a delicate balance has
to be established. The expression of too much anger breaks down lines of communication and creates a hostile environment. It
creates more anger. If left unexpressed, it builds and eventually evolves into violence. In order to understand race relations, we
need to understand anger. So, what is the most effective way to express anger and still achieve progress?

Many African-Americans feel and express anger—some through words, some through a passive-aggressive stance, some through forgetting. Others, unfortunately, through violence.
When African-Americans vent any form of anger, they open themselves up to several stereotypes. Some will see it as proof
of the “violent, animal-like” stereotype. Some will see the lazy stereotype (they’re just looking for a hand-out!). Some will certainly
see those particular individuals as “trouble-makers.” When we see such a large group of people expressing anger, however, we must
also see legitimate causes. The anger being expressed is not shown to create sympathy. This expression fights injustices. This expression
comes from a desire to no longer be angry. No one wants to constantly defend himself against other people’s fears.
No one wants to be viewed as a trouble-maker. No one wants to be angry! But the truth remains, we
are angry. We are angry because of past events and present discrimination. We are angry because of our lack of
recognition as true first-class citizens. We are angry because of unfair treatment and inhumane biases. We are angry because we
have no other choice. Unmistakably, we are angry.

This is where the difficulty begins. When we express this anger, we create more fear, which in turn creates more
anger. When I express anger in my articles, I know the tension and apprehension it may create. Yet, if I
did not express this anger, there would be no progress. I would be adding to the already false belief of
the perfect world. Anger needs to be expressed in a constructive, straightforward manner. A lack of anger in these writings
would show a lack of honesty. The expression of anger is important because it allows truth. But to focus on
the anger being expressed is shallow. The focus has to be on the cause of that anger. Why are they
discontented? What can be done to change these feelings? Who does this anger affect? Where did it originate?

Expecting an African-American to be perfectly content in this society is unrealistic. Expecting him to vent his anger in a
constructive, non-obtrusive way has to be expected because there is no “middle-ground” with anger. Either it makes you stronger, or
it tears you down. And too many African-Americans have been torn down because of it. It’s time to be realistic.
If we don’t, I believe we all know what happens to bottled-up tension. “Without struggle, there is no progress!” -
Frederick Douglass.

Stan Boyd

I have to sit where? I guess it’s true — I’m growing into a grumpy old man. There are some
things that seem to set me off, no matter how seemingly insignificant: deodorant that doesn’t deodorize, people who sit in
the turn lane and don’t turn, and people who wear their shorts so long that they look like knickers. But
these will have to wait. Although these issues concern us all, they make for rather dull Opinions articles, and we
don’t need any more of those. To cut to the chase, I’m most irritated by the goings-on in the John
Belk Arena — specifically how the student section is run at the games.

Where I have a problem is in the arbitrary assignment of seat locations in the student section. When the student
enters the arena, the nice ticket lady or man just hands the student the next ticket on the stack. Last
game I was early — one of the first 30 students there (I had to get a good seat for
the Daredevils). My ticket stub said row I, seat 15. Sorry, I’m getting emotional. Let me just say that if
the Davidson ticket people are going to hand out tickets to students without asking them where they want to sit,
then the student section should be open seating. I was one of the first people there! Why do I get
a worse seat than the guy who gets there five minutes before tip-off? Maybe there’s something here I don’t understand.men’s
varsity basketball games (as I have unfortunately made it to only a few of the women’s games, I am not
an authority on their student section). For those of you who have never made it to a guy’s basketball game,
let me give you the lowdown. You walk in, show your Cat Card, and receive a ticket (the locals buy
their tickets at the window). Now, each ticket has a seat location, but students get seats in the student section,
and locals get tickets for seats elsewhere.

If the Davidson ticket people are going to hand out tickets to students without asking them where they want to
sit, then the student section should be open seating. Another problem with the student section (I emphasize the student part
of that phrase) is the Crazy (oh, so crazy) Cat Club. You know the ones — about a dozen students
who paid $10 for a red T-shirt and a front row seat in our section.

Unfamiliar with that seat? Oh, it’s in the student section, but the last row with a total of two seats
in that row. Sure, I only have one friend, but I suckered a few others to “hang out” with me.
So we sat down a few rows closer to the court. The place began filling up, and of course, five
minutes before tip-off, the ticket holders for our seats butted us out. I was ticked off to say the least.
One game, row three was entirely vacant within a minute before the game started. I sat there, only to have
Burt, leader of the oh-so-Crazy Cats, ask me ever so politely to move. “These seats are reserved,” he said. Three
rows? A dozen or so active members, and three rows? Again, maybe there is something I’m missing. Do most schools
have the students pay to sit in the student section? I honestly don’t know. Why not have the Crazy Cats
sit in the front row of the end zone? Or, better yet, why not row 1?

Anyway, in conclusion, I think the increasing popularity of Davidson basketball has caught those in charge a bit off guard.
The student section should be open and remain free to those of us who pay $20,000. Once the game starts,
anyone should be allowed to sit in the designated Crazy Cat Club rows, or else have the club move to
another section and go wild there. Thank you from the bottom of our lungs.

Finally, we can all breathe easier knowing that our school has removed a huge health hazard from our everyday lives.
The number one cause of cancer and several dozen other diseases is no longer present in the place we go
to learn. NO SMOKING IN CHAMBERS. It is a great first step taken by the college, and it needs to
be heartily congratulated for looking out for the well-being of the students. It would be so easy to just continue
to look the other way (especially in a state whose Senator has decided that because he was paid off by
the tobacco lords he will stop U.S. research into tobacco).

I thought at a time of joy like this, it would be beneficial to point out to the student body
just what President Kuykendall has saved us from. Approximately 3,000 innocent people die from cancer caused by second-hand smoke each
year. An estimated 419,000 people die each year from diseases caused by smoking. Smoking is responsible for an estimated one
in five U.S. deaths and costs the U.S. at least 65 billion dollars in health care expenses and lost productivity
per year. Cigarette smoke contains 43 distinct cancer-causing chemicals and is responsible for 87% of lung cancer cases and most
cases of emphysema and bronchitis. It is also one of the leading causes of heart disease and strokes (according to
studies done by the American Lung Association and Surgeon General). Guys, that cigarette after sex takes on a whole new
meaning, since male smokers are 50% more likely to be impotent than non-smokers. Cigarettes are one of a few legal
substances sold in the U.S. that, if taken correctly, will accelerate death. This is allowed in part because of the
“generous contributions” to government officials by the tobacco industry and because of an advertising campaign in excess of four billion
dollars a year (which can conveniently be deducted from their taxes).

Thank you, Dr. Kuykendall, for saving us from these risks and putting the welfare of the students above all else
in making your decision. We are looking forward to the time when you make the place where “smoking has [the
greatest] potential impact on those nearby” (the dorms) free “from the hazards of passive smoke" as well.
