Che Davidsonian

ALENDA LIBERTAS

VOLUME LXXXVI

MONDAY, APRIL 24, 1995

NUMBER 25

Crosses ignite religious furor

By Russ TARVER & MATTHEW EIRICH
Assoc. Editor & Asst. News Editor

A cluster of three crosses, a cross wrapped in Rose’s flyers, and a cut-out bunny covered in Bible verses disturbed the usual serenity which accompanies Easter week at Davidson. From mealtime chat to Humanities discussions, students and faculty expressed divergent interpretations of the symbols.

Early in the week before Easter, members of InterVarsity, FCA, and the Ecumenical Council (EC) placed three crosses in front of Chambers to celebrate the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. FCA President Bo Bartholomew explains that the task was taken on by individuals with the support of the FCA and IV.

Later in the week, sophomores John Harmon, Dan Parham, and Charlie Hearon erected a fourth cross and a bunny.

According to Bartholomew, the purpose of the three crosses was to “remind people of Jesus of Nazareth and his resurrection.” Freshman Eric Sapp, a member of FCA, was involved in planting the crosses. He says the FCA wanted to “increase campus awareness of Easter, to remind people of what the week was about and what their significance was.”

See Cross on page 4

Tom Foley to speak Thursday in Love

By Mary CAROL JALONICK
News Editor

Recently ousted from Congress, Former Speaker of the House Tom Foley will address “The Changing Political Climate in Washington and What it Means for the Nation” in Love Auditorium Thursday night.

Foley, a Democrat who was voted out of the House of Representatives in the Republican-dominated elections, is the only modern Speaker of the House to be defeated in a midterm election.

From Washington State, Foley has served as Agriculture Committee chairman, majority whip, and majority leader of the House. He became Speaker in 1989 and had been a member of the House for approximately 30 years when he was defeated by Republican George R. Nethercutt.

He will speak for approximately 45 minutes with a 30-minute question and answer session afterwards. His lecture will be a part of the R.J. Reynolds series.

1975 FLICKERBALL CHAMPS

The top dogs of ’75 will return to campus this weekend to challenge the 1995 flickerball champions. Stand aside, boys — the men are back. See story on page 4.

Courtesy of Alumni Office

Students dish out sober analyses of fun on the Court. Rob Kosiki

By MATTHEW EIRICH
Assistant News Editor

The Board of Trustees during their retreat this weekend approved the Council on Campus and Religious Life’s (CCRL) revised alcohol policy. The council and committee structure has been a behind-the-scenes force affecting the debate about independents and the Court.

The Alcohol Policy Review Task Force (APRTF) is commissioned by the CCRL to review the alcohol policy — only — both on the Court and off. The APRTF makes recommendations to the CCRL, chaired by Shandley. The CCRL then makes recommendations to the president who recommends the plan to the Board of Trustees for ultimate approval.

None of these committees and councils are directly responsible for the plan to charge independents; that plan was proposed to and in the Patterson Court Council (PCC) which is responsible for implementing Court policy changes.

The CCRL determines, according to Patterson Court Advisor Kurt Holmes, whether the risk management guidelines are affordable. The PCC is then required to finance those guidelines.

PCC interests were represented officially and unofficially on all of the committees and councils.

On April 11 the CCRL met to discuss, amend, and eventually approve the APRTF’s recommendations. The CCRL’s recommendations concern the Court as well as affairs off the Court.

At Court parties, students will be required to wear a wristband.

See Confused on page 3

THIS WEEK

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

Alumni letters

Davidson alumni write in to the Journal in response to FLAG.

NEWS 5

Poor animals.

Sarah Webster ponders the harmful impact of weaponry on endangered species.

OPINIONS 9

Frolic, frolic, frolic....

ARTS & LIVING 10

Tennis champs

Wildcats host Southern Conference Tournament last weekend.

SPORTS 14