THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1995 19

Late-season play has Wildcats optimistic

Coach Mark, team look hopefully toward spring season

By Daniel T. Motz
Staff Writer

The golf team concluded its fall season with solid results and continued improvement. The Wildcats competed in a tournament at Charleston Southern, and despite finishing 13th out of 16 teams, the Wildcats played well, which has Coach Joe Mark optimistic for the upcoming spring season.

In college golf, five golfers compete on a given day, and the four lowest scores are counted. In the Charleston Southern tournament, Davidson shot a very respectable 629—314 on the first day followed by a 315. The competition was very strong, and the tournament was won by East Carolina with a 591.

The Wildcats also showcased their skills for the Davidson fans, hosting a tournament November 6-7. The Wildcats played well, finishing third, shooting a 316 on the first day. Unfortunately, rain halted play on the second day, denying the Wildcats a chance to gain on first place James Madison or second place Belmont Abbey.

Davidson was led by senior captain Aubrey Proud. Sophomores Andy McDaniel and Jason Lina are also integral pieces to Mark’s squad. He is also excited by several freshmen on this year’s team, including David Alexander, Cabell Fisher, Alby Toto, and Connor Eldridge. Alexander has been the Wildcats' best golfer this fall, averaging a 77, and Cabell Fisher has provided Mark with the best score, shooting an even par.

The Wildcats, having concluded their fall season, will participate in winter workouts to prepare for their spring season. The spring season will start in late February, concluding with the big conference tournament at Stony Creek Country Club in Greensboro in April. The experience and abundance of young talent should make the Wildcats a factor in the Southern Conference this year. Mark cites consistency as the one tool that would make Davidson a tough opponent.

Faithful fans cheer the Wildcats on.

Rob Kosicki

Win from page 16

averaging about 19 points and nine rebounds a game before turning an ankle on December 29 of last year in a holiday tournament in Idaho. He never fully recovered the explosiveness that made him sometimes seem almost unstoppable on the court and finished the season at 14.2 points-per-game and 5.2 rebounds. He, too, will be trying to erase memories of last season and one from two years ago when his shot from the lane as time expired in the final of the conference tournament that would have advanced the Wildcats to the NCAAs fell just short.

“Last year is as much a memory as it can be,” Williams said. “We’ve put it behind us and moved past it, and we don’t talk about it much. Last year we were always thinking about 22-8 (the Wildcats’ record in 93-94). We looked at the NIT bid and tried to do that again. It affected us and put unnecessary pressure on us. We’re not going to do that this year.”

Another offensive leader will be Harwood, a 6’9” forward/center from Reston, Va., who really came into his own with a 13.3-point average last season and earned preseason all-conference honors with Williams this fall. Harwood’s role will change slightly this year as he slides over into the center position more often as the Wildcats attempt to fill the void left by the graduation of George Spain, who last season set a school record for field goal percentage.

“There are a number of ways to get points in the paint,” McKillop said. “I think we have enough versatility and enough weapons in a number of different combinations to score those points.” But McKillop admitted it will be difficult to fully replace Spain’s big body, and the team could lose some offensive firepower in the middle. But he also said he expects the Wildcats to be a little stronger on defense.

Davidson’s backcourt is getting a little crowded, especially with the return of Mark Donnelly, who didn’t play last year but whom McKillop called the team’s “best perimeter shooter.” He and Ray Minlend will fight for minutes behind starting point guard Alpert and shooting guard Anderson. In his fourth year running the offense, Alpert knows what both McKillop wants from him and, more importantly, what the other players on the floor are doing. Anderson made his reputation as a defender, but last season he showed flashes of offensive brilliance. 

Minlend, who along with starting small forward Narcisse Ewodo is a sophomore from Cameroon, occasionally displayed an ability to shoot the lights out last season.capable of playing very well,” he said. “I think we need to work on our consistency. If all our guys can shoot in the 70’s, I think we'll be very tough to beat.”

Look at that swing! Rob Kosicki

Schoon from page 16

shoot uncontested from the opposite baseline.

5. VMI (8-18, 3-11): The Keydets lost to North Carolina last season by 40 in December, then scheduled the Heels for February this season. Presumably, UNC will be clicking by then. Lawrence Gullette, however, can play.

SOUTH DIVISION

1. Tennessee-Chattanooga (18-8, 10-4): Who else? The Moccasins have had 15 straight winning seasons and have 11 20-win seasons in that time. UTC has become the conference’s frequent guest to the NCAA tournament, having made it three years in a row. Mack McCarthy must be doing something right.

2. Western Carolina (14-12, 8-6): Frankie King has gone off to the LA Lakers, but Anquell McCollum is still around. Watch out for this guy; he should be able to overcome most of the damage from an NCAA inquiry.

3. The Citadel (12-14, 6-8): Without Shannon Faulkner to worry about, the Bulldogs can finally concentrate on basketball. A guy named Noy might be the best player for the Bulldogs, who could be better this year than last and not have it show up in their record.

4. Furman (10-16, 4-10): As much as we like the Paladins around here, they’re going to have a long season.

5. Georgia Southern (6-20, 2-12): Nope. Sorry.

but had trouble consistently finding his shot. The outside shooting needs to be more consistent than last season, when the Wildcats were most successful only when they frequently drained the jumper. That will be even more important this year without a strong offensive force inside. The return of Donnelly and the maturation of Minlend should both contribute to that.

“People need to remember that Donnelly’s been away for a year from the referees, from the fans, from the scoreboard,” McKillop said. “He’s very good so far in practice, but it will take time to get back to his form of the latter part of his freshman year... [But] what his presence will do is make the interior game stronger by forcing them to defend the three-point line.”

Ewodo had trouble adapting to the game last season, often committing silly mistakes. In his second year, he likely will have gotten over the initial shock of a new culture, new language, and new country and settle down with more consistency, especially if he knows he’ll be starting every night.

A schedule that includes Mississippi, N.C. State, Michigan, and UNCC should help the Wildcats put all the pieces together heading into conference play. If they do, by March they’ll be able to prove that this was their year.

“We’re in a position right now where we’ve done everything we possibly can to make this our year... This has been a mission that we’ve consistently followed since last March,” McKillop said. “It was all borne out of the disappointment of last year. To a man, to a coach, last season was successful in terms of wins and losses, but it fell far short of goals and expectations.”

Williams echoed those feelings, adding that the entire team is confident heading into the season.

“We are a very good team,” he said. “We'll play with anybody, and we’ll show that we are a good team. Win or lose, whenever we play, wherever we play, people will know we’re very good. Every game we’re just going to play the best ball we can. If we do that, we'll win.”

Notes: The Wildcats played their first exhibition and fell to a team from Australia. They have one more exhibition against the Charlotte Royals in Belk Arena. Davidson has three freshmen on this year’s squad: Ali Ton, a 6’0” guard from Los Alamitos, Ca.; David Burns, a 6’7” forward from Winston-Salem; and Chadd Holmes, a 6’9” forward/center from Ludington, Mich. None is expected to see serious minutes early in the season. Forward Ben Ebong returns to the team after missing the latter portion of last season. Not that it means anything, but the Wildcats have as many players from Cameroon (two) as from any state in the U.S. (two from New Jersey). The conference tournament moves to Greensboro from Asheville this season. The February 29-March 3 tournament is the first of five straight in Greensboro. The final will be televised by ESPN.

Earning Money is Child's Play! with Charlotte Select Sitting Service
- Get Average $6-$7.25/hr
- Flexible work schedule
- Great tips!
- Excellent Experience throughout service!
- Great Contacts!

CALL TODAY! 566-1117