_OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1995_

Where is the support?
Katie McKelvie

I need support. So do most women. I’m not talking about emotional issues here, I’m talking about pure physical help;
I’m talking about sports bras. I need them and not enough sports stores sell them.

Now, let’s all agree on something right off the bat: most women who participate in any sports-related activity need a
sports bra. This assumption does recognize that there are those lucky women who do not require such apparati. I simply
am pointing out the fact that an overwhelming majority of women need to purchase one or more sports bras if
they engage in a sport at any level. Are we all together on this? Good.

Herein lies the problem. Do sports stores sell this necessary piece of equipment for women? The answer: not enough stores
carry sports bras. I discovered this in my own quest for a sports bra. Enraged by my inability to find
this crucial piece of attire at two area sports stores (one being a national chain), I decided to launch a
full-scale investigation of the matter. My method: I called every sporting goods store in the Charlotte phone book which sold
sporting apparel. The result: nine stores sold sports bras and nine didn’t. However, if the three women’s specialty sports stores
are removed from the sample so that only general sporting goods stores remain, six sold sports bras and nine didn’t.
So, when I walk into a general sports store there is a 66% chance my needs as a woman will
be met and 33% chance they won’t.

That just doesn’t cut the mustard. The message the general stores are sending is that, in fact, they are not
general but male stores. Perhaps they should say that in their name so I won’t even have to go there.
I will just stick to the three women’s stores where they acknowledge the special support I need!

Guys, you may not understand the gravity of such a bra shortage in the Charlotte sports market. Let me explain.
What if only one-third of the stores sold something you had to have just to play basketball or flickerball for
over 10 minutes? Men have their own support needs, as I understand it, but they don’t need such contraptions for
a friendly game of tennis. Women, unless they enjoy pain, do.

Furthermore, back to the sports stores, I would like to note that two of the store employees with whom I
spoke (both male) laughed at my request for a sports bra. What is that? One other man responded to my
inquiry by saying, “I carry a jog bra type halter top type aerobic wear thing.” I was a bit confused
but grouped his store with those that did carry sports bras. But who knows? What was he really talking about?
Did he know what a sports bra was? This example definitely shows a need for more sports bra awareness.

Fellow women bra wearers (and male “bro” wearers too) it’s time to use our consumer power to get these “jog
bra type halter top type aerobic wear things” into the stores! Join me in protest by donning your sports bras
and demanding stores tailor their merchandise to suit our bra needs! (I'll know you’re in on the crusade by the
telltale “uniboob” effect all sports bras have.) The time has come for no

---

Jack Slosson

Homecoming was this weekend, but by the time this paper is out the event will be over. All the fun
will have been had, all the alumni will have gone back to work or graduate school, or, in some cases,
unemployment, and all the students (well, some of them anyway) will have returned to the library.

So here are my predictions made ahead of time. Let’s see if I’m right. Davidson football loses a heartbreaker 21
to 20. Some freshman gets a little too tipsy and passes out face down in the middle of the court.
My roommate, Jefe, never gets a date, but hooks up with an alum. Dean Terry comes back with a full
head of hair. Another damn hurricane forms in the Atlantic, and, as usual, just as Friday night rolls around the
clear skies turn into absolute junk, and we get rained on all weekend. Some junior guy from Tennessee runs around
naked in the court. Whole lotta hangovers happenin’ Sunday morning. Long shot prediction: some alum gets into a wrestling match
with Officer Moore (alias, Terminator X) over a wristband dispute, alum wins by launching a devastating clothesline from the Sig
Ep tree. The whole staff at the Davidsonian gets wasted both nights and doesn’t have time to edit this article—the
only reasonable explanation for why it would be published. My roommate, the slack, lazy Opinions editor, adds at least one
derogatory statement about me into my article. Jack is a tool.

Well, that’s about it. Hope you all had a fun weekend.Less than a sports bra revolution! We must overcome such
support deficiencies!

El Jéfe

Ten steps to perfection

This place needs some serious work. A couple of years ago, I was in love with Davidson and thought our
fine liberal arts school constituted perfection in the sphere of colleges. Ahhhhhh, the naivete. Now that I am a wise
and seasoned senior, I can clearly see the many deficiencies plaguing our institution. Don’t get me wrong, I still think
Davidson is great, but it’s cool to complain about your school, so I’m going to jump on that bandwagon. Actually,
I think I'll take a more constructive approach and make a few suggestions that could greatly improve our campus.

First, shoot the people in charge of the college directory. Who the hell are these delinquents? Hello, it’s mid-October, and
there is no directory in sight. The people at the Union desk all want to kill me because I call
about 25 times a day asking for numbers. Get off your butt, directory people, let’s see some action.

Second, we need a monorail from the senior apartments to Chambers. That walk is ridiculous. As I am in such
fine physical condition, I work up a sweat every day walking to class. This will not do. I’m thinking of
a nice modern electric train like they have at Disney World. Maybe serve cocktails in the afternoon and donuts in
the morning. It could work.

Third, cut off the drugs to the RLO workers. What do these people do all day? A work order my
apartment put in before school even started just got taken care of last week. Last year we complained about a
broken air conditioning in late September, and RLO rolled in around early April. I’m sure Kurt Holmes is in the
process of whipping the staff into shape as we speak, but please, do something.

Fourth, put cable in the dorm rooms. I don’t really care a whole lot about this one because I live
in the cable-blessed senior apartments, but I figure I should kiss up to the younger people so I’ll have a
place to stay during next year’s homecoming. So let them have cable. TV is fun, educational, and it’s the backbone
of every decent society on earth. Don’t be archaic, let’s get some cable going in the rooms.

Fifth, more random nakedness. This needs no explanation. Guys, please, ignore this one.

Sixth, no more speed bumps. Speed bumps are annoying. Pedestrians be damned—if we want to haul butt in our cars
we should have that option. Maybe put a guard rail around Patterson Court to prevent drunks from stumbling into oncoming
traffic. Other than that, I think walkers can fend for themselves. We could go into the pros and cons of
speed bumps, but it still won't change the fact that 10 out of 10 motorists prefer no bumps in the
road. Plus, they're yellow and ugly, a major eyesore in the midst of our beautiful arboretum of a campus. One
of the executive editors here, Mandy Curtis, has a new car and she especially hates speed bumps. That should be
reason enough. You must keep the media happy.

Seventh, pay the staff at the Davidsonian. If we offered a little monetary incentive, slackers such as myself probably wouldn't
slip through the cracks, and the Opinions section might actually be interesting.

Eighth, there should be a break during the World Series. Anyone who is not a communist will either be glued
to their TV set or road-tripping to the games, so why burden these fine young sports fans with school work?
Anyone who knows baseball also knows that the sport is a metaphor for life. Ahhhh, the cyclical pattern of the
game, the lone individual striking out against adversity, man against ball and nine other men, the spirit of the adventurer
longing to launch his aspirations into the wild blue yonder. Or you could view it as the relentless pursuit of
material wealth by greedy men bent only on attaining more money. Either way, it's the American dream. It's our national
pastime. So when the Braves take the field this week against one of those loser American League teams, back off
on the school thing.

Ninth, for God’s sake, do something about those banner messages. Could they be any longer?

Tenth, I think the word "hoochie" should be brought into everyday conversation. I realize I may offend a few women
with this one, but allow me to explain. "Hoochie" need not represent women. We could change its meaning to describe
butter, or beer guts, or that smell emerging from my apartment every Saturday and Sunday morning. You see, "hoochie" just
rolls off the tongue so smoothly. It's a snappy word that always juices up a conversation and makes everyone happy.
English types, I'm giving you the initiative on this one. Come up with something good.

Well, that’s it for now. Mull these suggestions over and I’ll get back to you soon. Food for thought, chew
it like gristle: Remember, if we all work together this can be a better place for everyone.
