THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1995. 9

Chris Frampton

Getting more out of life

I am out of ideas. Not just for articles for The Davidsonian, but for everything I am doing in my
life. I have nothing else witty to say about literature and the visual arts because I have said everything that
I could think. Nothing left to write about in my journals for Women Writers because my muse is lying on
the ground desperately begging for something nourishing to drink. She is dying of dehydration (assuming she is a woman) and
there is no Oasis in sight.

Of course, teachers will argue that their purpose is to nourish my muse, and I suppose that is true. In
fact, I would like nothing better. I like when ideas flow from my mind like red wine at a Catholic
wedding. I like red wine, for that matter. Unfortunately, my muse lives much in the same way as a plant.
When she is dehydrated, she wilts. When she is watered too much, she drowns.

Responsibility makes me ready for life. If their version of life has no weekends, I want no part. So what
do I do? Well, as was suggested by our esteemed editors last week in “My Life in a Box,” Davidson
students tend to concentrate on the work, climb and climb the mountain, forgetting to look around at the view. At
least this is what I inferred they meant to imply, though they could have been implying something other than I
inferred. But I doubt it. My teachers seem hardly to understand this: too much water will drown the plant.

Eat, study, eat, study, sleep... and again. That is not a life. What generally happens when we are not studying?
We are resting. We rearm ourselves. We eat. Then we eat, study, sleep... and my weekends disappear under a pile
of journals and scripts and problem sets and reviews and reviews for reviews and novels and critical reading and papers
and research.

Of course, again, teachers might also argue that having survived such a climb as is necessary to conquer this mountain
of syllabi makes me ready for life. But I don’t really eat that regularly. I try to, but I generally
end up grabbing a snack here and there between classes. I would eat breakfast but I always stay up late
studying and so I need to catch up on my sleep. I eat dinner as quickly as I can so
that I can get back to work and leave time for some other things. But wait, if I stopped doing
other things, only ate, slept, and studied, I could get all of my work done and not cause my mind
to wilt under the strain of so many demands. Right.

Eat, study, eat, study, eat, study, sleep... and again. That is not a life. So what is the moral? Well,
if teachers are going to assign so much work we have to give up something else, and by this time
of the semester, everything else. Or we can give up sleeping and eating and do everything else that we want
to. Burn the candle at both ends, baby. Or, you might consider passing all of your core requirements in time
so that you don’t have to take five classes, ever. Just a thought.

El Jéfe

Positivity

People around here complain far too often. Look at the pages of the Opinions section. “You use too many expletives,
you didn’t recognize my organization enough, I don’t like this about our school, RLO is slow, the yearbooks are so
late that we should find the people responsible and kill their families.” Well, most of those appeared here, but anyway,
you get the point. People at Davidson love to complain.

I certainly can point no fingers as I am as guilty of this trend of negativity as anyone. It’s just
so much easier to criticize something rather than fix it. So I’m going to make a bold move this week
and be Mr. Positive, the all-new, super constructive El Jéfe. Everything you read below will represent honest congratulations for jobs
well done, and sincere suggestions for improvement from the keen insight possessed only by El “Mr. Chipper” Jéfe.

First and foremost, good job Rusk on that police thing this weekend. Definitely an enjoyable date function. The decorations were
so clever, and the “Jailhouse Rock” section was a big hit. Some skeptics might criticize the overcrowding, but I think
it was brilliance incarnate. At one point I saw a crazy frat guy I know pass out either from alcohol
or the 103-degree temperature, but did he fall and hurt himself? No, a human wall of semi-formal dancers wedged closely
behind kept him upright for at least 10 minutes until his date noticed he was unconscious. Good work!!

Second, that Rusted Root concert last weekend rocked. I really felt like I was out in the woods with Ranger
Rick and his crew of earthy people. Quite a sketchy bunch, those Rusted Rooters, but they could sure play a
washboard, and that drum interlude towards the end was certainly a treat for kids of all ages. Just a hint,
though, someone might want to tell those guys to hit the showers. I ran into one on the third floor
of the Union and mistook him for a bum. I’m not saying they should go clean cut or anything, but
earthiness and stinkiness need not go hand in hand. Or perhaps they could change their image to be more like
those ever-so-hard-rockin’ Nelson twins. You remember, those identical twin glam rockers with long, long blonde hair. They were the coolest.
Ahhhh, glam rock.

Third, and this is just a suggestion, but in the future, please don’t send seniors a GPA scale that illustrates
their place in the class. It’s very disheartening to learn as a first-semester senior that you are pretty well locked
up in the eighth decile (that’s toward...the bottom, you understand). For those who aren’t confident in their mental prowess, a
position in one of the lower deciles could seriously shake their self-confidence. That would be a shame. We can’t have
unconfident people walking around here, it’s depressing. So if you know someone who’s really dumb, go up to them and
say, “Casey, (just a random name with no relation whatsoever to anyone I might know or live with) you’re a
damn clever guy (or woman, if you know a female named Casey). Don’t pay those decile things any mind.” Actually,
I do know a guy named Casey, but he is very smart. He’s got a GPA in the high threes,
a phenomenon I can’t figure out because he also wears airbrushed T-shirts and thinks East Texas is the cultural center
of the world. But I digress. Just remember, if you are in the eighth decile, twenty percent of the school
is still dumber than you. Those in the tenth decile, you may have to start hanging out at UNCC. Well,
that’s about all the positivity I can muster for now. Being upbeat really takes a lot out of you. Plus,
this article is late, and my co-Davidsonian people already hate me. So happy happy, joy joy. (iy.)

E-Mail: MichaelFry@aol.com

Healthy from page 7

the LNFMC. A disadvantage in the overall favorable option of contracting with the LNFMC is that they simply do not
prescribe the MAP. (As discussed by Ms. Ringle with your reporter, a counterbalancing women’s health advantage with the LNFMC is
that they offer prescription for the injectable three-month birth control, Depo Provera, which our previous provider would not prescribe.) What
we did was to discuss our needs seriously with Dr. Campbell, who quickly helped us make an arrangement with local
OB-GYN specialist, Dr. Mark Peacock, to provide evaluations for student MAP requests, on the same availability as for his own
patients. We ascertained that Planned Parenthood is available as another option for this service. Our staff is quite committed to
helping the student in need to obtain the service desired. Thus, students do have “an option.”

It is unfortunate that the current arrangement requires the ten or so students per year affected to pay a private
provider for this specialized service, as noted in The Davidsonian article. Considerably more students must deal with other specialized services,
such as orthopedic care or the services of a psychiatrist, the costs of which are also borne by individual students
because we are not capable of providing such specialized services with current resources. Recognize, too, that the amount of $100
to $135 (depending on provider selected) is a one-time cost and that emergency loan funds are available for any student
who truly cannot raise the money. I would add that Student Health will continue to seek a service that is
even more accessible in terms of proximity and cost.

As you can see, the issue here has been much more about the day-to-day complexities of providing health care than
about institutional indifference or “legislative morality.” Frankly, I was disappointed by your editorial. It cast the Student Health Services as
indifferent or even adverse to students. Nothing could be further from the truth. The statement that students were ignored is
patently false. Two students nominated by the SGA, Debbie Liverman and Lucian Dervan, have served on our Student Health Advisory
Committee since last Spring. They were apprised of these very issues at our meeting in September. Their invaluable questions and
comments have been an ongoing part of our perspective on all the decisions made. Ms. Ringle has met regularly with
Student Health and Other Concerns (SHOC) committees, thus, they too have input. The selection of the LNFMC as our contracted
medical staff was primarily a best-option decision based on specific requests of students as expressed in the SGA resolution last
Spring.

You asked, “who makes these decisions about health services?” The answer, clearly acknowledged in my open letter to the community
published last Spring in The Davidsonian, is that I do—although I do so with much input from students, faculty, staff,
and the Dean of Students Office. Accessible to anyone wishing to discuss any aspect of health services at Davidson, I
was, in fact, interviewed on Friday, October 27, on a different matter by the same reporter who wrote the MAP
article. He asked me none of your questions. No one called me to discuss any of your issues. When The
Davidsonian addresses an important issue about health care at Davidson, students would be helped much more by researched answers rather
than rhetorical questions. As an alumnus, staff member, and parent of a student, I have a strong sense of community
at Davidson College and want the best health services possible. Our staff and I are working very hard to engender
a restored sense of concern and quality of care so that no student will be hesitant to use the Student
Health Facility.

Sincerely,
David Staton, Ph.D.
Director, Student Health Services

Really pissed from page 7

things are better left unsaid. I am certainly no writer, but I can read. I expect the contributing writers of
the paper to attempt to submit articles that do not have to scoop from the dredges of slang, or even
skim the surface for that matter, in order to convey a message. A writer who must resort to such tactics
is simply exposing his or her inability to compose an intelligent composition. I realize the dilemma of the editors when
they come across a piece that may contain a questionable phrase or two. Therefore, I would put it to the
writers to evaluate their own work. Does The Davidsonian not purport to be “the South’s foremost college weekly?” If indeed
it does then I am surely not alone in thinking that it should stand by its claim.

Sincerely,
Dewey N. Ervin, Jr. ‘99
