6 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, APRIL 24, 1995

Week in Washington

Supreme Court takes on election issues

By ANDREA SHORT
Washington Week correspondent

The Supreme Court addressed two separate election statutes last Wednesday. First, announcing its decision in McIntyre v. Ohio Elections Commission, the majority ruled that anonymous campaign literature equaled a constitutionally protected form of free speech. Citing that “anonymity is a shield against the tyranny of the majority,” Justice John Paul Stevens struck down an Ohio law that prohibited anonymous brochures and campaign paraphernalia; the law, which also exists in many other states, was enacted in Ohio 80 years ago. The majority decision did not affect disclosure of campaign contributors or sponsors for political radio and television advertisements.

Justices Antonin Scalia and William H. Rehnquist, however, disagreed with the majority’s finding that anonymous political speech had a history of protection under the Constitution. Authoring the dissenting opinion, Justice Scalia based his decision on the states’ widespread and time-honored use of such statutes. Scalia wrote, “such a universal and long-established American legislative practice must be given precedence, I think, over historical and academic speculation regarding a restriction that assuredly does not go to the heart of free speech.”

Also on Wednesday, the nine justices heard arguments in a case that seeks to make consciously drawn minority districts illegal. Set against the backdrop of a national debate on affirmative action, the Supreme Court began hearing arguments about election districts that are purposely drawn to create an African-American or Hispanic majority. Election districts in Louisiana and Georgia are under scrutiny. Plaintiffs argued that creating minority districts violates the Fourteenth Amendment’s equal protection clause. The lawyers reasoned that election laws “must treat citizens as individuals, not as simply components of a racial or sexual class.”

The number of minority districts in the United States has gone from 26 to 52 since 1990. Proponents of the districts assert that without such districts, ethnic and racial minorities would lack any effective representation in Congress. A former counsel for the NAACP was quoted as saying, “if the Court ruled that race could not be used in redistricting, the Congressional Black Caucus will be able to meet in the back of a taxi cab.”

Minority districts were first questioned in 1993 when the Court found that North Carolina’s minority district was “so irrational on its face that it can be understood only as an effort to segregate voters into separate voting districts.” The case, Shaw v. Reno, opened the door for parties to oppose minority districts. This particular case involves many details that may affect the Court’s determination. One factor weakening the plaintiffs’ case is the fact that they do not live within the disputed district. Consequently, Justice Ginsburg questioned whether the plaintiffs could actually claim any injury. Regardless of the outcome, however, the case will surely be closely scrutinized as the other two federal branches and the nation debate affirmative action.

Sources include: the April 20 issue of The New York Times.

Dean Rusk

Gore affirms position on

By GRAHAM ERNST
Dean Rusk adjunct reporter

Vice President Al Gore defended the five nuclear powers’ (U.S., United Kingdom, France, Russia, and China) policies on the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty (NPT) at the current month-long U.N. conference regarding the 25-year-old treaty. The original NPT was signed in 1970 by 174 nations. It is currently up for renewal.

U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher has declared an indefinite extension of the NPT, the “cornerstone” of international security. Several developing nations, however, including Mexico, Venezuela, Nigeria, Egypt, and Indonesia fear that an indefinite extension would fail to keep the five nuclear nations accountable to their pledge to disarm. Furthermore, it is generally believed that India, Pakistan, and Israel have developed nuclear arsenals despite the NPT international agreement not to do so. The major problem that an indefinite extension of the NPT presentsis that it grants a “nuclear apartheid” to the five nuclear countries who already have a disproportionate amount of power in the U.N. Each holds a permanent seat on the powerful Security Council. China is the only nuclear country to agree to a compromise plan to extend the treaty another 25 years. In his speech to the U.N. General Assembly, Gore argued that the NPT “creates a more secure world ... by providing an internationally recognized, verifiable means for states to foreswear weapons forever.” The U.S. received a sign of good news when South Africa declared its support for an indefinite extension. The final vote will come on May 12.

Also at issue in the current U.N. conference is the effectiveness of the NPT at monitoring the exchange of nuclear technologies between nations for energy purposes. Gore declared that the U.S. strictly monitors all nuclear technologies that it shares with other nations to make sure they are not used for weapons programs. Along those lines, the U.S. has been critical of China and Russia for their plans to sell nuclear technology to Iran, claiming that such a sale would give Iran nuclear capabilities within 10 years. While the U.S. pushes for an indefinite extension of the NPT during the next few weeks, it will be important to hear the concerns of non-nuclear nations. Nuclear weapons continue to pose an ominous threat to world security. At the same time, it will be difficult to ensure the nations of the world that the declared nuclear countries are capable of containing this massive responsibility. The May 12 vote will reflect the success of the U.S. and its partners in achieving that goal.

Source includes 4-20-95 issue of The New York Times.

NOTES

Federal law enforcement officials Saturday denied that a Japanese sect had planned to release nerve gas at Disneyland during the crowded Easter weekend and said that a threat received by park officials was a hoax. Justice Department spokesman Carl Stern said in Washington that the FBI has launched a criminal investigation to determine who was responsible for the phony threat, which prompted worried officials to secretly dispatch scientists and a chemical warfare team to Disneyland.

Disneyland spokesman Tom Brocato said Saturday that the park’s security office received a threat April 13 in a letter and videotape that showed a man wearing rubber gloves and mixing chemicals. U.S. authorities were immediately notified, according to Stern. Stern said the anonymous threat implied that a gas attack similar to the one in Tokyo in March could be expected at the Orange County theme park.

Sunday, April 23, 1995
Charlotte Observer

HELP WANTED!!

Men/Women earn up to $480 weekly assembling circuit boards/electronic components at home. Experience unnecessary, will train. Immediate openings in your local area. Call 1-602-680-4647. Ext.102c

SGA DAY
THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 1995

- 9am - 5pm: Video introducing members of the SGA and giving some helpful insight explaining the workings of SGA members **Union Pit
- 9am - 5pm: Bulletin board with helpful information about the SGA and SGA Day **Chambers
- 11am - 2pm: A faculty/staff/student cookout with free hotdogs and hamburgers, chips and sodas. SGA members will cook. **Union Patio
- 6pm: Student/faculty/staff roundtable on interesting topic **Vail Commons Board Room
- 9:30pm: Study Break with desserts, coffee and tea **900 Room
- 9:30pm: State of the School Address - President Bill Gullan **900 Room

New Age HAIR DESIGNERS
A full service salon for men and women

School's running out, so come in to New Age and get the perfect tan for the summer. Right now, Davidson students and faculty receive 10% off all retail items with a school I.D. *Davidson Students receive $1.00 off services with a Student I.D.*

Select from a line of Paul Mitchell, Matrix, Logic, Nexxus, Sebastian, and Goldwell hairstyling products. Manicures also available.

Southlake Shopping Center
Next to Harris Teeter
Cornelius, NC
892-3067