THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 1995 7

The Davidsonian

LEIGH RAWDON - Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Executive Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Managing Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY - News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts & Living Editor
WILL COBB - Sports Editor
ROB KOSICKI - Photography Editor
WILLIAM ROBERT - Copy Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

WALT BARRON - Advertising Manager
CAROLINE BYNUM - Advertising Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN - Business Manager
SCOTT HILE - Operations Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD - Circulation Manager
ERIC SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

SUPERBO

Hey, attention, oo Bs pay
Commercials are back on.

LETTERS

We are not a “Bible school”

In Defense of the Media

Inevitably, I find myself in conversations about health care, Newt Gingrich, and O.J. Simpson. Without fail, the conversation concludes with the media as scapegoat. “It’s the media’s fault.” “Can you believe what the Observer ran as the lead article?” “Today’s news programs are no more than another Inside Edition.” “It’s all sensationalism.”

I, too, am disgusted with the soap opera make-over of world events. However, I find myself more disgusted that the soap opera make-over is blamed for today's problems. Why? At first, I thought that my blood was boiling because, as editor-in-chief of my college newspaper, I am the media. I would never want to take credit for all of the troubles of the college--and certainly not of the world. On second thought, though, my disgust is more frustration than personal offense. I get frustrated that people interpret society’s ills as anyone’s faults but their own. The media gives its readers and viewers what they want to hear and see. In addition, the media reflects reality. People feel contempt for the media because television and newspapers highlight our insecurities, fears, and faults. In addition, headlines and soundbytes depict a truth in their reduced format.

Paul Hill, O.J. Simpson, and Joycelyn Elders make the headlines because publishers know readers will read the stories. Readers blame the media because they don't want to accept responsibility for society's (as well as their own) condition. Newspapers are not to blame.

The Role of The Davidsonian

Although The Davidsonian is not to blame either, a college newspaper plays a larger role than just that of a measure of reader-response or a mirror of reality. Besides the postal service, The Davidsonian plays perhaps the most significant role in maintaining a sense of community on our small campus. As editor-in-chief, I tried to publish a paper that raised both awareness and interest in campus events. Of course, we make mistakes and omit important events from time to time, but I believe that The Davidsonian, at its best, can foster solidarity and unity at Davidson.

A Few Words of Gratitude

The editorial you are reading is my last obligatory contribution to The Davidsonian. As I look back, I feel a little pride that I was a part of a successful publication, a little nostalgia that it is all over, a little regret that I didn’t do more than I did, and a lot of relief that I won’t get any more newspaper-related voice mails. But most of all, I feel a tremendous amount of respect and gratitude for the 1994-95 Davidsonian staff. The Davidsonian couldn't come together each week without the contributions of its more than 50-person staff.

First, I must thank my friends and family for their encouragement (especially my roommates for their patience on Monday mornings). Next, I want to thank a few of the seniors who stuck by the paper through good and bad times--Alex Crumbley, Casey Rogers, Ashlyn Dannelly, Will Cobb, Rachel Newcomb, and Bill Bryan--all of whom made The Davidsonian a significant part of their college years. These people have spent more time and energy than any of them would like to count. And to the new executive editors, Mandy Curtis and Bobby Ramsay, I wish much luck and courage. I have every confidence that they will publish a Davidsonian both to take seriously and to enjoy. I have every hope that The Davidsonian will encourage a sense of community that will enhance the unique situation we have at Davidson. Certainly, the commitment of students to The Davidsonian staff reveals an even stronger commitment to Davidson itself. The staff's double commitment to the newspaper and the college makes The Davidsonian a different--and better--sort of newspaper.

Leigh Rawdon
Editor-in-Chief

To the editors,

I appreciate the fact that The Davidsonian wanted to present “a clear view of the debate coupled with the candid views of those associated with the college who have strong feelings on the issue.” The title of your article, however, undermined from the outset your goal of remaining unbiased. I was very disappointed to see the words “Bible school” under the photo of DCPC. No one has ever claimed that Davidson is or should be a Bible school. That term generally refers to institutions which focus their curriculum largely on the biblical text and teach all other disciplines only within the context of explicit biblical claims. Moreover, those institutions generally have a fundamentalist interpretation.of the biblical text, demanding such a perspective of their abide and intentionally nurturing that perspective in their students. Perspectives contrary to that one are excluded from every aspect of institutional life. To suggest that this is in any way the issue before Davidson College is to make an uninformed and false claim and (perhaps unintentionally) to insinuate that making the college into a Bible school is the agenda of those who favor maintaining and strengthening the college’s ties to the Presbyterian church. Since its beginnings in the sixteenth century, the Presbyterian tradition has valued humanistic learning in all of its forms. Its record in promoting quality higher education is not a fact which can be cast aside lightly. That the editors of our student newspaper could even think up the title “Bible school” for this article reflects a woeful lack of awareness of what it means to be a Presbyterian-related institution of higher learning. It may also reveal why so many in our community are opposed to maintaining strong ties to the church: they are ignorant of what those ties mean and how they have shaped this institution's existence over the past 150 years. Their lack of knowledge makes them prejudge the issue, and prejudice is never beneficial in this kind of discussion. I am glad The Davidsonian is tackling articles such as this one. I genuinely appreciate the effort you put into not biasing your article. However, I urge you to take care not to polarize the issue unnecessarily as I feel that you did in choosing your title.

Sincerely,
Rob Spach, Chaplain
Davidson

In defense of eating houses

To the editors,

As a Davidson alumna, I was distressed to read of some women’s interest in affiliating their eating houses with national sororities. The eating house system provides many advantages, among them an ability to set their own policies not bound to national regulations, budgetary independence from a national organization, and, most importantly, a non-competitive atmosphere not dominated by rush and bids. In response to Barbara Harvey’s assertion that eating houses “don’t give you anything afterwards,” I can say that my four years in Warner Hall gave me leadership abilities, a sense of community service, and lifelong friends from Warner Hall, Rusk, and Spencer. I would not trade those things for a national network and a newsletter if given the opportunity. There are many things which make Davidson special. The eating house system is one of them. It’s not broken; don’t try to fix it.

Sincerely,
Brigitte Roufail ’90
Charlotte, NC

Peeples should have spoken only for herself

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

After two and a half years at Davidson, I have finally been moved enough to write to The Davidsonian. Whether my past inactivity was due to apathy, laziness, or some other unknown cause or fear, I’m not really sure. I do know that I am a strong believer in the phrases “Leave well enough alone” and “Don’t beat a dead horse.” But after all this time, it is time to beat the horse. A previous letter submitted by Rebekah Peeples failed to mention my name along with some other upstanding males (there are a few of us). I feel slighted. My world has been shaken, and I am angry. Before I let my anger run away with me, let me say that I am by no means defending the actions of the individual who adorned the roof of Phi Delt with offensive words. Although I cannot speak for this individual, I would like to apologize to Connor for any offense taken. As an angry male, I reserve the right to do this. I understand that the words “Ho,” “Box,” and “Hog” may be offensive to some. I think offense is a matter of opinion. If you are offended, for whatever reason, then no one can really argue with that. It’s a feeling. My intent is not to refute Ms. Peeples’ arguments. Who knows—I may even agree with them. I merely wish to point out some gaping holes in her story and in her argument. As is often true with opinions, a large part of the story was either omitted or mangled. First of all, Rebekah failed to mention that while

See Cole on page 9