RIS & LIVING MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1995

Movie Review

Not Toying Around

Toy Story hits it big

By EP ACLE
Movie Critic

Remember when E.T. first came out so many years ago? Remember how you used to pester your parents, wanting to
see it over and over? And remember that even when you saw it for the fifth time you still wanted
to go back and see it again? It doesn’t seem like there are too many movies these days with that
type of appeal. There have been some fairly good recent movies, but if someone had asked me last week to
name a movie that I think should be considered a classic, I’d have to go back a few years. Now,
I just have to go back to the day before Thanksgiving.

Since Toy Story opened up on that Wednesday, I have been to see it three times. This movie should propel
animation into the next stage. As many of you know, this is the first movie ever done completely by computer.
When watching the toys go through their motions, I was amazed for the first three minutes. I didn’t notice the
effects for the rest of the film because they were so good I forgot they were effects. Parts of the
film are so lifelike that it almost seems that they were live action. The animation alone is reason enough to
go see Toy Story.

The most magical aspect of Toy Story, however, isn’t the animation; it’s the story. The plot seems deceptively simple, but
on reflection can mean as much as you want to bring to it. On the surface level, the story is
about a toy cowboy named Woody who has long been his owner’s favorite toy. He ceases being Andy’s favorite toy
when Andy receives a Buzz Lightyear toy. Buzz, on top of being a snazzy toy, also believes that he is
a real Space Ranger. The rest of the film concerns itself with the trouble Woody and Buzz get into when
Woody tries to take back his spot as Andy’s favorite toy.

Upon closer examination, Toy Story becomes much more than a story about toys that come to life when their owners
aren’t around. It is also a meditation on the afterlife, a tale about coming to realize one’s place in the
world, and a look at the fickle nature of friendship.

Another part of what makes the movie sing are the various other characters.

---

SHOWING OFF

By CHAD FOGLEMAN
Staff Writer

The diverse talent of the dozen acts in the first annual Student, Faculty, and Staff Variety Show marveled a Saturday
night 900 Room crowd despite the unrelenting O.J. jokes of Professor John Swallow (“math department humor,” as his fellow emcee
Terri Gordon explained). The home-grown showcase of music, song, and poetry was sprinkled with Middle Eastern dancing by Little librarian
Jan Blodgett (it’s a shame she can’t wear those bells on her hips when she strolls through the government documents)
and the edifying couplets of the Habitat House Committee’s (very) vaguely Shakespearean “A Midsummer Night’s Construction Party” (a drama redeemed
by its costuming: fairyJ. D. DuPuy wore green tinsel headgear. Of the third act, M.C. Gordon predicted, “This girl can
sing,” and senior Laura Leibfreid complied with Alanis Morissette’s “Forgive Me, Love” in simple and strong a cappella. Katherine Palmer
and guitarist Diane Krause of Ecdysis (which means “molting” and, moreover, is “fun to say,” Palmer confessed) treated listeners to
a harmonious original “In Your Own Time.” Sophomore David Milling needed a phone book to reach the keys, but his
piano and vocal work “Close My Eyes” still left Sara Beth Hamlin so “speechless” she spent the entire intermission...

See SHOW on page 12

U2’s Passengers takes a new train, but doesn't get off at the right stop

By JAMES BERRY
Music Critic

Amidst a whirlwind of synthesizer, processed guitar, and fragmented crooning, Brian Eno and the four members of U2 finally cross
the boundary into the precarious realm of art rock with their latest release entitled Original Soundtracks 1. If you can
imagine the process of evolution that took the band from The Joshua Tree, through Achtung Baby, and into Zooropa, then
this album might make sense, although those who are expecting a typical U2 album will be sadly disappointed.

The concept behind Original Soundtracks 1 (at least as I understand it) lies in the title. The songs were written
as background music to various films. Because of this, the album lacks the continuity and theme of previous releases...

PASSENGERS: ORIGINAL SOUNDTRACKS 1

Passengers: Original Soundtracks 1 features only the slightest hint of guitar, using odd samples as percussion and background noise. Melody
is kept to a minimum as well, although the final track, “Theme From Let’s Go Native,” echoes the intensity and
suave of “Zooropa” with its regulated bass and rhythmic guitar. “Beach Sequence” is the epitome of repetition although it’s got
a nice vibe to it.

The actual songs embody only a pinch of the traditional U2 but still emanate the characteristic moodiness and careful wordplay
of Bono’s lyrics. Only six or seven of the fourteen tracks have words at all and those that do sometimes
repeat a single phrase throughout. (Take “Always Forever Now,” which fits the title to melody without any additional lyrics.) The
track with the most attitude has to be “Elvis Ate America,” a stripped...

See PASSENGERS on page 12

...sound which comes from Eno’s tailored synthesizer. Also, the album hasn’t been marketed in U2’s name. Because of Eno’s contributions
(which might exceed that of the band members), the album is attributed to Passengers, a name intended to encompass Eno,
U2, and whoever else they can get to join them. This time (since it’s expected that this is to become
a tradition) the list includes Luciano Pavarotti, Howie B, and Holi.

The tracks range from dance-driven instrumentals such as “United Colours” to fairly evolved song ideas like “Miss Sarajevo” (where Bono
is joined by Pavarotti on lead vocal). Most of the instrumentals have little structure and feature only the slightest hint
of guitar, using odd samples as percussion and background noise. Melody is kept to a minimum as well, although the
final track, “Theme From Let’s Go Native,” echoes the intensity and suave of “Zooropa” with its regulated bass and rhythmic
guitar. “Beach Sequence” is the epitome of repetition although it’s got a nice vibe to it.

The actual songs embody only a pinch of the traditional U2 but still emanate the characteristic moodiness and careful wordplay
of Bono’s lyrics. Only six or seven of the fourteen tracks have words at all and those that do sometimes
repeat a single phrase throughout. (Take “Always Forever Now,” which fits the title to melody without any additional lyrics.) The
track with the most attitude has to be “Elvis Ate America,” a stripped...

See U2 on page 12
