14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1995

Women’s soccer defeats App State
By Kristy Forp
Sports Writer

Playing one of their better games of the season, the women’s soccer team defeated Appalachian State Wednesday, 4-2 in overtime to advance to 2-0 in the conference and 4-5 overall.

Their attempts on goal overwhelmed the Mountaineers as the Wildcats outshot their opponent 22-6. Claudia Lombard scored her first goal of the season, putting the Wildcats up 1-0 early in the first half. The Mountaineers converted on a free kick in the second half with 18 minutes to go in the game. However, the team did not panic and continued to play tough both offensively and defensively. With 5 minutes to go in the game, Lucia Plosser scored on an assist from Melissa Moser. Thinking that was enough to win, the Mountaineers retaliated with a fierce goal that goalie Allison Noznesky knocked into the goal in an attempt to save. For the final two minutes of regulation, the score remained tied.

Making the most of the overtime, Plosser scored 13 minutes into the first half. The team dominated the second overtime holding the Mountaineers scoreless. Kelly Amman’s attempt was almost credited with a goal 5 minutes into the second overtime, but the ball brushed Heather Wineberg’s head, thus giving her credit for the goal.

Playing App is always difficult because it is the only time the team plays on astroturf. “We really got better and more confident on turf as the game progressed,” said Coach Kevin Hundley.

Yesterday the team traveled to Virginia Tech. Although there were some opportunities in overtime, the team had trouble converting on them. In their second overtime of the week, the final score remained 0-0. “We played solid defense today,” said Hundley. “It was an ugly yet gutsy game that we played. It was really hard for us to get any momentum as a result of the great number of fouls that were called, but overall we played well.” There were 62 fouls called in the game.

Field Hockey bursts out of slump
By Ken Hatt
Sports Writer

Davidson’s field hockey team finally began to snap out of a season-long scoring slump in Thursday afternoon’s 7-1 thrashing of Catawba at home.

The team was eager to vent its frustration, which had been building all season and reached a peak in an embarrassing 11-0 defeat to Duke last weekend. After a week of practice specifically focused on scoring, coach Betsy Pryor said the team was “ready to score and ready to win.”

Davidson jumped out to an early lead when Erin Smith knocked in a pass from Holly Kledis just one minute 20 seconds into the game. Catawba came back with a goal of their own to tie it 1-1, but from then on the game belonged to the Wildcats. Nicole Ficeto became the team’s leading scorer with two first-period goals off assists from Mary Dowd and Heather McAlpine. Also scoring first-period goals were Teresa Alden and Laura Rosenbach, giving Davidson a 5-1 halftime lead. In the second half, Amy Lamoureux and McAlpine tacked on the final two Wildcat goals on assists by Chase Keith and Mandy Niedert, respectively.played a solid half in goal, didn’t see much action as Davidson continually kept pressure on the Catawba side of the field. The Wildcats tried to use the momentum generated from Thursday’s game to beat conference rival Appalachian State Sunday on the road. Davidson beat the Mountaineers 1-0 on September 14, and Pryor predicted Appalachian State will be “dying to win this game.”

This weekend, Davidson hits the road, playing Virginia Commonwealth on Saturday, Richmond Sunday afternoon, and American University in Washington, D.C. next Monday. The squad returns home the following Saturday for an alumnae game and plays William & Mary on October 15.

Wildcat Erin Smith Arhagies to gain ae “Brandon Clarke Claudia Lombard scrambles during practice. Rob Kosicki

Rugby falls to UNC 29-16

FROM STAFF REPORTS

On Saturday, 18 Davidson rugby players undertook what they expected to be a cruel and merciless self-sacrifice, traveling to play 2.5-ton juggernaut UNC.

RUGBY

Before the game started, Will Bradshaw said, “I’m kind of scared.” This sentiment resonated throughout the rest of the Davidson squad. Despite missing seven starters, the squad stepped up and played their hearts out before falling 29-16.

In the first half, the nationally ranked, All-American experience of the Tar Heels team dominated. After North Carolina scored five consecutive tries, Davidson got its only points on two field goals by Matt Burkhardt, leaving the score at 29-6 at halftime.

In the huddle during the break, Sean Harvey gave a stirring motivational speech. After the game, Eric Borgstrom said, “I was really moved by Sean’s speech... It conjured up images of Churchill.”

Refocused and revitalized by the five-minute break, the team retook the field. The first five minutes of the second half were a virtual stalemate. A heads-up decision was Davidson’s first break. Noticing that North Carolina overloaded wing Ben Hill five to one, Chris Smith shifted over to stop what could have been another score. Anticipating the pass, he took out the first Tar Heels back and seized the ball. Smith then charged down the field with support from Hill and passed off just as he took the tackle. Hill then dived into the try zone for Davidson’s first try.

The score seemed to demoralize North Carolina some. Davidson’s scrum, led by Harvey, Jonathan Sipling, Thayer Long, Jeremy Chason, and Bradshaw exerted unrelenting pressure on the Tar Heels. North Carolina was frustrated as it struggled to move the ball out of its own half. “It was as if Davidson had constructed an iron barricade at midfield to trap UNC on their half,” Geret DePiper said.

Davidson backs Jason Cody and Hank Ackerman used the scrum’s assault to their advantage. Ackerman shook off several tackles as he charged into the North Carolina try zone for the second score of the half. From that point on, Davidson dominated. The Tar Heels never left their own half of the field, leaving them scoreless in the second half. A Davidson comeback seemed very possible had the game not ended, aided by some slowdown tactics by the Tar Heels. As it was, the Wildcats put in a fine showing in Chapel Hill and will attempt to repeat that performance October 14 at home against the Generals from Washington & Lee.