OPINIONS MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1995

Trouble in paradise: The Court fee debate
Ken May

What’s next
J.W. Nelson Chandler

Here’s what

So I’m just waking up from my mid-afternoon post-Organic test catnap. My friendly Davidsonian deliverer gives me a warm smile as he hands me this week’s issue. “Did you hear the news?” he says. Rubbing my eyes I stammer a negative. He replies, “Yeah, the Court’s closing all its parties next year. You’re not an independent, are you?” “Well, actually I am,” I reply. “Oh sorry...,” he says as he nervously departed from my presence, taking warning from my reddening face and the smoke pouring out of my nostrils.

Despite my initial anger, I stopped to reflect on what I think is a critical issue for our college. For those of you that live under rocks, the April 3rd issue of The Davidsonian reported that Patterson Court is planning to charge a social fee for independents who wish to party on the court next year. In essence, parties are being closed to the student body as a whole.

I cannot say I blame the Patterson Court Council for their decision. It’s actually expected considering all the insurance liabilities, alcohol policy problems, and pressures from national fraternities that accompany open parties. Plus, it is definitely not the God-given right of every independent to freeload off the social dues paid by fraternity members. However, this poses a considerable dilemma. If my guess is right, many independents will refuse to pay the social fee that has been levied for party attendance. For monetary, philosophical, or other reasons, students who chose independence in the first place did so because they did not wish to be beholden to a particular social scene. What makes the Patterson Court Council think these same students will want to buy into the system now?

And now for the big question. If the Court is no longer a social option, what else is there to do on campus for Davidson independents? As long as the Court has open parties, the administration can afford to somewhat overlook the growing discontent among socially-capable independents. But with the possible departure of open parties, the college can no longer neglect the social needs of its growing independent population. I’m not saying fraternities stink or should be abolished from campus. But I am saying that there is a serious scarcity of entertainment and social options at Davidson for non-affiliated students. Particularly at such an academically challenging school as this one, stress relief in the form of social entertainment is a vital part of student sanity and health. The administration needs to recognize this and do something about it. I’m not sure what the answer is, nor am I certain that there is one answer to this complex problem. Maybe it’s a new Union, or non-pledging eating houses for men, or coed eating houses, or even a nightly cover charge for attendance at an individual court party. But whatever the solution, changes need to be made soon and without hesitation. There are already enough divisions in the student body as it is. Ignoring the situation any longer will only fuel independents’ social frustrations. As a campus, we owe it to ourselves to address and correct this problem before it becomes destructive to the very fabric of Davidson.

Paid managers, paid bartenders, paid police officers (armed), sober monitors, IDers, social chairs, house presidents and vice-presidents—these are the folks who could be in charge at each Patterson Court party next semester. If that isn’t enough bureaucracy for you, I don’t know what is. Granted, the Alcohol Policy Committee (APC) has had a hard job revising the old rules of Patterson Court. They began with some good, solid ideas: simplify the policy, make it effective, give the houses responsibilities, and alleviate insurance problems, to name a few. Unfortunately, at its present state the new policy falls short. Take note that the APC decides such policy, not the PCC as the previous Davidsonian implied. In fact, The Davidsonian and much of the student body have overlooked the worst part of the Alcohol Policy Committee’s new plan. Last week’s paper concentrated on the “cover charge” and the Independent “suffering.” There may be problems with the idea of “court membership,” but they don’t arise from helping alleviate insurance stress and lighten the Court’s tremendous risk management expense. This benefit is voided, however, by the real problem with the new policy. That is, house parties become more “closed,” but at the same time they become more regulated and less autonomous. In short, greater bureaucracy results that could eventually lead to unfunded mandates. Under a more minor adaptation of the existing policy, this fee would support cops, risk managers, and bartenders. Either the fee will be escalated, or the house will be forced to foot the bill for something they don’t need.

3) Strengthen the Role of the Sober Monitors. They’re free and they know the territory. We definitely don’t need risk managers and sober monitors.

4) Clarify the Position of the Police. Communication is key; let house officers and cops discuss their roles with each other. Keep police at open functions, but allow a “roving” cop for date functions and smaller gatherings.

5) No ID Bracelets or Door Checks. It would be ludicrous to barricade the back doors, porch, and front door from invading independents. Such an atmosphere is not what Davidson wants; it would also be impossible in practice.independent fee ($10-20) if necessary for insurance, etc., but decrease the party staff and simplify the rules. Let’s compromise: 1) No Paid Bartenders. Intoxicated folks can get beer from a friend even if the “trained” bartender refuses. 2) Eliminate Risk Managers. The Risk Managers may be excellent lobbyists, but what do they do? What about house officers? Let them and the sober monitors inform the cop if there’s a problem. Utilize our Honor Code, and assume that those who have not paid will not attend. The Alcohol Policy Committee has one of the toughest jobs on campus. Let us not forget that its reform thus far has some good points, such as removing registration requirements for small, closed functions. But the opportunity to improve Patterson Court must not be missed. If those with the final say in the matter stick to the original goal of efficiency, effectiveness, and cooperation, something could still be made of it.

Steven Duncan & Matthew Pearson

Evolution: The elaborate truth

“Evolution simply requires that life adapt in response to a change in selective pressure.”

Eric Sapp has written three articles in The Davidsonian questioning the validity of certain evolutionary principles. Obviously, Sapp draws most of his conclusions without the benefit of a thorough knowledge of evolution and related concepts. Here are five of Sapp’s quotes that constitute the bulk of his flawed argument.

1. “Evolution contradicts the Law of Biogenesis (all life comes from life).” The theory of evolution does not discount this law. Although the study of evolution raises many interesting questions about the source of life and the universe, evolution is a theory separate from both Creationism and the “Big Bang.” Regardless of nature’s origins, life on earth has been shaped by evolutionary forces.

2. “Evolution requires that life randomly and by chance become more complex.” The word “complex” is a subjective term that Sapp has added to this theory. Is larger more complex? Stronger? Longer-lived? More intelligent? Evolution requires only that the organisms better suited for survival live longer and reproduce more than others less well adapted to the environmental conditions. That said, we can rephrase: “Evolution requires that life randomly changes.” The next problem lies in the term “random.” Evolution is not at all a random process. There is a clearly definable environmental cause for any evolutionary change. The random factor is the event that brings about the environmental change. A drought could reduce the food supply of a population, or volcanic activity could force a community to migrate into and disrupt another community. One can hypothesize as to whether or not these environmental changes are following a preformed plan, but this is not related to the theory of evolution. Evolution simply requires that life adapt in response to a change in selective pressure.

3. “To date there has been no evidence of a good mutation.” It is true that almost all mutations are detrimental and are thus quickly selected out of a population. However, a detrimental mutation can easily prove beneficial when combined with a change in the geological, meteorological, geographical, or predatorial environment of the mutated individual. A recent instance of a “good mutation” is the peppered moth of England, a classic example presented in almost every introductory biology book. The dark color of the moths thriving on the blackened tree trunks arose from a mutation of the allele which controlled the normal white coloring of these moths.

4. “There are different kinds of dogs which came from an original source, but where is proof linking dogs to any other animal” (missing links)? I can attribute this statement only to Sapp’s lack of research. Even a cursory study of the fossil record reveals links between every type of animal. Fossils of fish with the ability to breathe air and make short excursions onto land predate the evidence of amphibians on earth. Fossils of amphibians with reptilian brain, heart, and urogenital developments are seen in the period before the first reptiles appeared. Reptiles show many mammalian traits in heart and brain development that amphibians lack. The Therapsid reptiles, thought to be direct precursors to the mammals, had mammalian skull and tooth structure, limb arrangement, and other skeletal adaptations not possessed by their contemporaries (other reptiles). No fossils of mammals have been found predating Therapsida simply because Mammalia did not exist until created from this reptilian offshoot. A display of this can be seen in an exhibit at the National Museum of Natural History. The entire vertebrate skeletal history is exhibited in chronological order, showing the sequential adaptations made by each class of animal that the next class built upon.

5. “Evolution should not be taught as fact.” I agree completely with Sapp, but he argues a moot point. Evolution should be taught as a theory, but I believe that anyone who objectively studies this theory will come to accept it. We have come to Davidson to learn about the liberal arts and sciences and through this process develop an intelligent and informed way of thinking. Given this, it amazes me that a Davidson student could make these statements. People who have intensely studied biology and evolution realize that this theory is nearly indisputable, while many people with little biological or evolutionary knowledge continue to question it. The reason for this discord is not that all scientists are godless heathens, but instead that they have researched evolution extensively. Sapp’s conclusions about evolution are obviously a direct result of a lack of research on this topic. Anyone who questions the theory of evolution owes it to himself or herself to find out the facts behind this theory before making an uninformed judgment.