12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 1994

By Shayna Chazin

One of Thursday’s Chill Chasers brought two poets to read at Main Street Books: Maureen Ryan Griffin and Judy Goldman.
Both of these poets have recently published books of their work.

Griffin read from her first publication, *When The Leaves Are In The Water*. The selections were a bittersweet mixture of
the anger and tenderness felt in familial relationships, between mother and daughter, husband and wife.

Griffin possesses the keen insight of being able to look back on her childhood and appreciate the sufferings of her
mother’s own struggle with many children and little support. One poem entitled *What I Won't Tell Her* recounts a moment
the poet shares with her daughter:

At breakfast,
dreams
of white plumed horses, of
planting
orange day lilies in open fields.
I don’t tell her my dreams of
my mother smashing my
china
tea set, of having no clothes
to fit, as if I change sizes
nightly.

Along those same sensitive tones, Goldman’s writing showed more craft, touched with unique metaphors to give her audience vivid close-up
pictures through which to see an event.

In the title poem of her book, *Wanting to Know the End*, Goldman alludes to the delicacy of the moment
her friend commits suicide by writing, “Lizards on the bark of a tree / know not to pry.”

Goldman pointed out to us that an integral part of poetry is reading it slowly, taking each word in one
at a time.

In her work this is especially true, for each piece of vision is connected to a human event. In a
poem about a blind person seeing in his dreams, *Night Vision*, she knits many images together: the threading of a
needle, her mother turning towards her, her father reading a newspaper, a somersault, then a phonograph needle playing her name
over and over. It’s a soothing thing to hear, as those images slide through your mind one more time.

The face of a poet.

Photo by Brandon Clarke

Blockbuster from page 10

impaired teenager. Johnny Depp plays Gilbert, who is living with his 500-pound mother and going nowhere in a small Midwestern
town. This film provides hilarious insights into the local drama of a place where not much happens, as Gilbert takes
drastic measures to get out.

Tammy's top movie picks

1. *The Mission*. My favorite of all time. The haunting score by Ennio Morricone makes this an extremely powerful movie.
In this account of imperialism in sixteenth-century South America, Robert DeNiro and Jeremy Irons are priests struggling with the sins
of racism, greed, and their own human weaknesses. The great thing about this movie is that it is far from
pious. The devastating beauty of the final scene implicates all the characters in one of the most shameful chapters in
the history of Western civilization.

Dear Terry Buffington,

The Accelerated Learning Program.......

‘Someone Who Cares’ is a series of four “on target" workshops for Davidson students who are looking for ways to
be more efficient and effective learners. It takes only 75 minutes of your time per session.

meets in the College Union 900 Room
Mondays 7:00 - 8:15 p.m.

Dear Terry,

I think one of my professors hates me. Every time I approach him, he looks at me like I am
a total moron. I try to be intelligent and “on the ball” in class, but whenever I make a comment
he just looks over my head or to the person on either side of me. This professor is very influential
among the faculty and I worry that he might really dislike me, and could threaten other professors’ opinions of me.
How can I improve this relationship?

Sincerely,
Teacher’s Pet Peeve

Professor Shireen Carroll

January 30 IMPROVED WRITING: How to make a good paper (in any subject) even better
CO-SPONSOR: RUSK HOUSE

February 6 BUILDING RAPPORT with FACULTY: How to approach faculty in class and afterwards
Professor Clark Ross
CO-SPONSOR: PHI DELTA THETA

Dear Peeve,

You have to consider the possibility that you are a total moron. If, after taking this into consideration, you find
that you are not lacking upstairs, then try raising your hand before making comments. If you do this already, then
perhaps you should stop making comments altogether.

Sponsored by the Office of Academic Affairs

If you find that even after an extended period of silence this professor is still giving you the shaft, try
updating your wardrobe and hairstyle. If you are a woman, try a different color lipstick. If you are a man,
tuck your shirt in. Hitting on the professor wouldn’t hurt.

PS: In case you really are a moron, by “hitting” I do not mean “beating.”

A Simple Formula, But One That Makes A Difference

Invest in your future health and environmental projects. College credit and volunteer in Latin America. Develop leadership, organizational and cross-cultural
skills. An exciting opportunity.

Application deadline is March 1.

5618 Star Lane
Houston, TX 77057

Are all of your favorite pastimes and activities covered in The Davidsonian? If not, write an article about it. Call
John or Jacob at -6156 for more info.
