THE DAVIDSONIAN. BACK PAGE INTERVIEW MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1995

On a life-long mission to expose the abuses in Chinese prisons, Harry Wu has become “the voice of China’s conscience.”

November 13, 1995

While you were growing up, who particularly influenced your later political involvement?

Most Chinese families are not involved in politics. But I received two different influences. The first was my father. My father is a banker. He could have left China to become a rich man in Hong Kong. But he said, “This is my homeland, and I will stay.” That was one very basic influence to me, to love your country and work hard by yourself. The second one was a Catholic priest. He was Italian. We had become very good friends. He took care of me a lot when I was in middle school, in 1949 or 1950. He was an old man, and he was very kind. I learned to love and learned about God from him.

What were the circumstances that led to your initial arrest in 1960?

I was a so-called “counterrevolutionary” for about 2 1/2 years. I had no liberty. I could continue my study, but I was under the party’s surveillance. Until 1960 the whole country had a big problem—starvation. Many people died and left their hometown and their family to seek food and travel around the country. There was a very serious political crisis. The party tried to control the situation. They set up lots of labor camps. I was arrested under this background.

Were you given a trial?

No, it was just an arrest, so-called re-educational labor. I was taken directly from the school to the detention center.

Describe the living conditions at the prison.

I was subject to hard labor. We were in dormitories one by one, everybody had two-foot-wide spaces. Ten people were organized and became a squadron. There were 10 or 15 squadrons together as a company. There were three to five policemen controlling each company. Each squadron selected one prisoner as a leader to control the other prisoners and the labor. So every day we would go to the fields to work on the farm. If you worked in a factory you had your shift to go to work. It was seven days a week, 30 days a month.

Were there any experiences in your nineteen years of prison that particularly stand out?

They took my former inmate’s body to the graveyard. He was Chen Ming, a very nice guy. I found out that the graveyard was huge. All of [the graves] were unmarked and unrecognized. We don’t know how many people were dead. And I felt, “Does life mean nothing, just like a cigarette ash?” If lives mean nothing, the society means nothing. If society means nothing, the country means nothing. This political system has to be changed.

Did you suffer any physical harm while imprisoned?

Yes, every day, because we did not have enough food. We had a ration of cornmeal, and the ration related to your labor and political performance. There was a basic daily problem because of the food. We didn’t have sugar, milk, or cooking oil. Maybe two days a month we had two pieces of pork meat.

How did your imprisonment affect your religious beliefs?

There were no religious beliefs. I tried to get my Chinese passport for about four years.

You returned to China twice in 1991 and once in 1994. How were you able to return?

I got a visa from the Chinese government and legally went. But when I travel in China I have a different position according to the situation. I pose as a businessman, a tourist, a common person, a prisoner’s family member, or a policeman.

How do you gather information?

First of all, we have to identify how many prison camps there are and their population. Then we interview many survivors. We interview policemen, judges, doctors, and patients. They come from different camps, different positions, different ages, and different times. If you put these people’s stories together, you get the whole picture. I learned from the Tiananmen Square incident that TV had a very important role in exposing the movement. So I want to use TV.

Harry Wu.

HARRY WU

Brandon Clarke

Harry Wu, 58, has dedicated his life to raising awareness of conditions in Chinese prisons. Wu was born in 1937 in Shanghai, the son of a wealthy banker. After attending a Jesuit boys school, Wu studied geology at Beijing’s Geology Institute. During a period of political openness, Wu criticized government policies. He was arrested in 1960 without trial and spent 19 years in Chinese labor camps. Wu’s experiences have made him a vocal critic of the Chinese government’s human rights abuses.Particularly in the camps. This was a reactionary thought. No one talked about religion in the prison camps. I was baptized when I was 11 years old as a Catholic. Religion was totally destroyed in China after I was fourteen years old. Once I was in the camp, there was a point in the disaster I tried to seek something to support myself spiritually. I did some praying, but later I felt kind of guilty because I shouted to God, “You told me you are universal, you love me, you’re concerned about me, you bless me. Where are you now? I’m innocent. How can you help me?”

Why were you released in 1979?

The party had a new leadership and new policies. I became a teacher in a university in geology. I was the head of the laboratory at the China Geoscience University.

How were you allowed to come to the United States?

I got a release in 1979. It was a very dangerous political situation for me. They taught me that I had a big tail and that you had to grab your tail between two legs. I got an invitation from UC-Berkeley, and TV as a weapon and a tool. If you’re writing, that’s pretty easy. If you want to film something, it’s more difficult, and you’re seen more by police.

What abuses did you discover in the prisons?

The prisoners are forced to labor, and the Chinese police are forced to cover it up and try to sell the products indirectly. Once I posed as a businessman in the negotiation and they determined that the products are exported to the United States. I obtained Chinese documents in print on how to extract organs from the executed prisoners.

How were you captured on your most recent trip to China last July?

By computer. They dialed in my passport number and they got me. I was taken away by the secret police. I traveled around in China and was finally locked up in a police guest house. I had a nice view and good conditions. Policemen served me and took care of me. The physical conditions were okay, but mentally it was horrible.

Trial as a counterrevolutionary rightist. For the next nineteen years, Wu was imprisoned in various Chinese detention centers, learning from others how to survive meager rations and grueling labor. Because of a change in political leadership, Wu was released in 1979. In 1985, after obtaining a Chinese passport, Wu was allowed to go to UC-Berkeley as a student. After obtaining a teaching position, Wu became determined to tell the world about the conditions in Chinese prisons. Twice in 1991, once in 1994, and again in 1995, Wu returned to China, disguising himself to document conditions in the prisons, or laogai. Collaborating with CBS, the BBC, and 60 Minutes, Wu produced several documentaries on the horrifying conditions he had known while a prisoner. They show prisoners malnourished in filthy cells, forced to perform hard labor in mines and fields, and compelled to manufacture goods exported to the West. Wu, posing as a businessman, uncovered evidence that prisoners’ organs were sold at immense profits. Wu is the founder and executive director of the Laogai Research Foundation in Milpitas, California, which is dedicated to exposing Chinese forced-labor camps. He is also a fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University. Wu, a United States citizen, lives in California with his wife, Ching-Lee.

No, they spied on me and told me I would die. They never issued an arrest warrant. That means they want to eliminate you. Finally, after 20 days, they issued an official warrant and then condemned me to 15 years.

How were you treated while you awaited trial?

The conditions were okay, but three young lieutenants stayed with me for 24 hours. No radio, no newspaper, you cannot make phone calls. Nobody can call you. My family’s letter, they were not allowed to give it to me. When I wanted to buy a Chinese law book, I was not allowed. I was interrogated, but there was nothing really interesting. They only took the BBC and CBS reports as the evidence to charge me—public documentaries.

What motivates you to continue your work?

I came over here as a scholar at UC-Berkeley in civil engineering. I want to forget about the past, have a good life, turn the page over, but I can’t. I cannot forget the past. I cannot turn my back to these people. I have to do something for them. So I became a research fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University, and I focused on exposing Chinese gulags.

By David Santschi