OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1995

David Aycock

And the home of the Braves

OK. I’ve tried to deny it long enough. After countless hours of trying to convince myself that I don’t really
care, I can finally see the futility of my labor. I will admit it. I am a Major League Baseball
fan.

Why do I feel guilty about admitting that? I know that last year’s player strike caused a lot of problems
for the game in general. I mean they canceled the World Series, which really pissed off a lot of die-hard
baseball fans like myself. But the point remains: I am a junkie who finally has enough guts to say that
I still love baseball. I love it so much that I actually sat down to write this article.

There is a point to this piece, though. It is time that someone wrote an article that was not critical
of the great American game, lauding some of its greatest characteristics instead. Namely, the newly crowned World Champions, the Atlanta
Braves. (Say this to yourself before you continue reading: “World Champion Atlanta Braves.” Doesn’t it feel good?)

For lifelong fans of the South’s only major pro baseball team, victory has never been sweeter. I know that some
of you probably consider the Florida Marlins to be southern, but they aren’t. They play in Miami. Miami is not
part of the South. Southern Florida in general is not the South. It is merely New York City on a
very muggy day. However, I digress.

I literally grew up in Atlanta’s Fulton County Stadium. Being from western North Carolina, you learn to love the Braves
early, a difficult task in my youth since 100-loss seasons were accepted as business as usual. In all the Braves
games I went to as a child (and I went to a lot), I think I saw them win once,
and that was against the Houston Astros who were basically a minor league team anyway. As bad as we were,
they were worse. It was almost like getting beat up at school by the big kids and then going home
to pound on your little brother.

Just suffering all these losing seasons wasn’t enough, though. Then, miraculously, the Braves got to be good. In 1990, they
finished last in their division. In 1991, they lost the World Series in seven games to the Minnesota Twins. It
hurt to lose, but hey, the Braves were good! Then they went to the series again in ‘92, only to
lose in six to Toronto. I still have problems accepting the fact that a team from Canada won the World
Series. It just ain’t supposed to work that way. In ‘93 the Braves lost the pennant to the Phillies. In
‘94 the players and owners took a break from playing to count their money (I’m still a bit bitter about
that). But 1995 came and saved the day.

The Braves played the Cleveland Indians in the least politically correct sporting event of all time, and the good guys
won their first championship since the team played in Milwaukee and featured players like Hank Aaron, Eddie Mathews, and Warren
Spahn. It was also the first major sports title to ever be held south of the fabled Mason-Dixon Line. I
guess you could say that the Super Bowls won by the Cowboys count in this category, but I hate the
Cowboys, and every person I have ever met from Texas is a little sketchy anyway (Casey and Stan Boyd to
name a couple).

Basically, what we have here is the opportunity for Braves fans and Southerners in general to bask in the glow
of victory for the first time since Fredericksburg, Chancellorsville, and Manassas. And although Jefe really wants to be Mexican, he
is actually from Atlanta, so I know he’ll run this. Keep doing that Tomahawk Chop, because the Atlanta Braves are
World Champs.

I THINK THE BEST WAY TO PURSUE MY GOAL OF WORLD DOMINATION IS TO BECOME A TALK RADIO HOST.

E-mail: SCOTTADAMS@AOL.COM

I’LL PROMOTE MY UNIQUE CONSERVATIVE VIEWPOINT THAT PEOPLE ARE IDIOTS WHO DESERVE TO BE MOCKED.

Six excellent cine 95 United Feature Syndicate, Inc. (NYC)

WON’T PEOPLE SHOW YOUR VIEWPOINT TO BE FLAWED BY VIRTUE OF THEIR INTELLIGENT QUESTIONS?

ONE?

LIKE THAT

Rachael

Ever since I saw “Ghostbusters” for the first time, libraries have given me the creeps, but in my time at
Davidson my fear has evolved into outright animosity. While my extended list of grievances with the library could fill immense
volumes, thereby providing hours of fun-filled reading, I realize that Davidson students have a cornucopia ofWork to complete. Therefore, I
am providing “Rachel’s Special Edition Abridged List of Six Excellent Reasons to Hate the Library” for your reading enjoyment.

1) The Carpet - This one’s almost too obvious to mention, but I can’t help myself. I realize that E.H.
Little Library was designed and built many a year ago, but come on. Has that nasty, color-of-baby-doo-doo carpet ever been
stylish? I don’t think so. I also realize that building projects are expensive and that costs must be cut wherever
possible, but I’m thinking that maybe hiring a colorblind interior decorator wasn’t such a great idea.

2) E-mail - I sit there with my nose in a book, trying to look studious, trying to ignore its
call, but its voice gets louder and louder: “Log on, Rachel. You know you don’t want to study the role
of anaerobic decay bacteria in the denitrification process. It’s been 14 minutes since you last checked. Come on, Rachel. Just
because you didn’t have any new mail last time doesn’t mean that 14 of your best friends haven’t written you
in the last half hour.” How evil to put such technology within spitting distance of my carrel.

3) The Stairs - This is more a piece of friendly advice than a means of engendering malevolence: you know
those steps up to the second floor that are to the right when you walk in the front door? Well,
be careful when you walk up those stairs because it would be really embarrassing if you were to trip on
one of them and fall on your face right in front of that big study group posse that always sits
on the floor there. Not that I know this from experience or anything, but... um... it just seems like that
could be a potentially embarrassing thing to do.

4) The Basement (AKA... The Quiet Floor) - I can understand that, for some people, it is necessary to have
a silent place to study, but this Quiet Floor business has gotten a little out of hand. I mean, you
feel guilty for coughing down there. Lighten up, Quiet Floor People. There’s more to life than studying, after all. And
besides, when you gotta cough, you gotta cough.

5) The Closing-Time Bell - If you’ve ever experienced it, you know. If you haven’t, you will, and all I
can say is when you do, I hope you don’t wet your britches.

6) The Bathrooms - Now, I don’t know if you members of the male population here at Davidson will be
able to identify with this one or not, for I have never ventured into the library’s men’s room, but as
for the ladies’ room... What’s up with the signs on the stall doors? To clue in you blissfully ignorant fellows—one
of these little gems of wisdom taped to the doors began, “To whoever is throwing up in this bathroom...” While
I do realize that bulimia is a serious illness, that’s still just a little more information than I needed. And
what about the one with the little ants crawling around the border reminding you to wash your hands? Give me
a break. “Hi. I’m still in kindergarten. Will you wipe my nose for me, too?”

If you need more reasons to abhor Davidson, why not start by reviewing this list daily? Feel free to pencil
in your own personal reasons for hating the library and remember—expressing disdain soothes the soul.

Britton “Two Tone” Taylor

~The Scarlet Letters

Recently I came upon a fascinating realization concerning the students at Davidson College. Apparently, the burdensome intellectual experience imposes a
traumatic feeling on the consciences of many. Accordingly, the populace has developed a lack of self-confidence in their academic endeavors.
Personal experience dictates that a few Cs and Ds and Fs don’t exactly hold the ingredients for a likable disposition.
Now, this is a horrible thing—certainly a solution must be contrived to save those of us who are less fortunate
of the mind. Well, I’ve got a solution for everything, and this, of course, is no exception.

The heart of all our troubles (as I have so dutifully researched) dwells in the grading system itself. Students at
Davidson are forced to use a scale that discourages diligence and applauds occasional effort. Here, then, is my proposed amendment
to the grading scale:

A: A pretty good try
B: Basically a decent try
C: Captivating try
D: Damn good try
F: Fine try

As opposed to the present scale:

A: Alright, but you can do better
B: Betcha feel stupid, don’t you
C: Can’t do anything right
D: Don’t get upset, it’s only 35% of your final grade
F: Find a tutor or embrace alcoholism

I’m sure my proposed changes appear much more attractive. Sulking heads and dreary souls, emancipated from self-pity and disgust, will
alter their gaits from gimp to pimp, flaunting newfound acceptance and approval of their inherent intellectual abilities. The implementation of
my suggested alteration will ignite significant and profound changes in student life. Stress, bad tempers, and even suicidal tendencies will
reduce in time. Everyone will be happy. However far-fetched this idea seems, it’s time we downplay the significance of grades
and begin to stress the importance of college as a learning experience in general.

Henry Payne
