THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, MAY 1, 1995 13

Bang a drum, slurp some squid, and hug a tree (for a buck) Davidson celebrates Earth Day ‘95

By GEORDIE SCHIMMEL Staff writer

How many of you have ever heard mostly-conscious musicians playing on thrift-store bought pots and pans and old plastic water
jugs, the kind with the ribs? How many of you have embraced, face to face, a tree that needed a
shave? Perhaps the more revealing question, how many have paid to embrace a tree? How many of you have eaten
squid still wriggling from the sea?

Earth Day rolled around again, and Davidson met it full face to celebrate behind the Commons last Thursday. During lunch,
scantily dressed students milled around eating their lunches, tossing sundry projectiles back and forth, visiting the various theme booths, and
nodding to the intriguing music.

One might say that the musicians tied the event together (everyone heard the same noise), but one wonders, pursuing the
analogy, what they’d use for string. Dysfunctional phone cords? Their cymbals were old pots and pans, their drums water jugs
and oil drums, or what closely resembled oil drums, sort of an odd thing to display so blatantly on Earth
Day. Though their lyrics might send the more conservative scholars of poetry sprinting to the bathroom holding their mouths shut,
one’s got to applaud them for their courage. Can you imagine singing those rhymes? In public? And if there’s something
to be said for sheer weirdness and ingenuity, this band, The Billys, will soon top the charts.

Anyway, all of it was great fun. But the band was, after all, a small part. There were of course
the booths/event tables. One could, if so inclined — and a surprising number seemed to be — write letters to
conservation agencies and purchase some fairly attractive nature t-shirts, all the rage; learn where, how, and why to recycle (haven’t
we been through this too much already?); hug the only known Quercus sapiens in the world and for only a
buck; and try one’s hand at trashketball, rumored to be the fastest-growing sport in the nation, definitely in the next
Olympics. And in the last booth, ice cream and perhaps the most potent lemonade in North Carolina waited free for
anyone not completely satisfied by Commons cuisine. (The squid was, actually, a less popular booth which dissolved very early.)

Symphony concert. Virtuosic piano soloist James Swisher electrified Love Auditorium with his rendition of Edvard Grieg’s Piano Concerto in A
minor. Maintaining a facade of simplicity, Swisher dazzled the audience with his amazing technical ability. Furthermore, his intensity radiated through
his dramatic arm gestures and animated face, as each and every listener transcended into a state of complete absorption. Coupled
with the rich orchestration, his passionate piano melodies created an unforgettable moment. The first movement startled the audience with explosive
energy and an incredible cadenza, while moments later, the second movement brought tears to their eyes. People hovered on the
edges of their seats, lingering on every musical moment. After the final chord, one could sense a short caesura of
silence in which people regained normal breathing. Shortly thereafter, Love Auditorium was filled with the overwhelming sound of people leaping
to their feet and joining in the standing ovation. The people who attended the concert were privileged to hear a
performance that some said they would never forget.in the event. The wriggling from the sea part was a joke. These
were only store-bought squid. And now arrives the part where one gives the event the hard sell. But that is
becoming very much a bore. It was Earth Day, we celebrated it. No one told us what to do and
so we did it ourselves, not searching for some congratulations, not looking for any nods of approval, but for ourselves.
For ourselves. There’s something very reassuring about that.

Earth Day teaches us to appreciate our Mother, a lesson some of us already know. Rob Kosicki bought squid.

Eating disorders. Body image. Sexuality. Gender relations. Sexual assault. Feminism. Career and family. Global women’s issues. If you want to
discuss these issues and share good food and great company, come to the Women’s Issues Committee meeting tonight at 8:30
in the Big Screen Room.

The Glass Ceiling.

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Rascal
6 Read quickly
10 Wild part
14 Forbidden
15 Story
16 Outside: pref.
17 Opera songs
18 Rachel loves the violin, too.
19 Border lake
20 Coin of Iran
25 Makes happy
30 Winter vehicle
32 Things of good
37 Rows of seats
38 Level pieces of ground
39 Distribute
40 Reactions to pollen
42 Change
43 Pig sound
44 Lorne of "Bonanza"
45 Man of the cloth
49 Kind of coat
50 City in Cuba
51 Tending to correct
56 Certain poems
57 Journey for
61 Tied
62 Kilmer poem
63 Aware of
64 Rude talk
65 Genders

DOWN
1 Heavy weight
2 Executive attention
3 He had an Irish
4 Disturbs
5 Metric unit
6 Chicle product
7 Flowerless
8 To shelter
9 Unnecessary
10 Ky. college
11 Acetic and sulfuric
12 Where actors perform
13 Golf cups
25 Embossed
26 Movie dog
27 Seethe
28 Russ. city
29 Swiss river
30 Glossy
32 Salty water
33 Floating
34 Short letter
38 Withered
41 Horse color
44 Chicle product
49 Flowerless
54 To shelter

At Hickory Hams,® we serve mouth-watering sandwiches at our in-store Cafe-Deli. We cure our meats with pure natural honey then
gently smoke them over hickory hardwood. And that's what makes them taste like nothing you ever tasted before.

Hickory Hams®
$2.99 Kiss O’ Honey Smokehouse Sandwich
$3.99 Hickory Hoagie Sandwich
$4.99 Executive Lunch Boxes
$5.99 Sandwich Basket

Not good with other offers. Limit one per purchase.
