“whe, OPINIONS _ MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1995

Chris Frampton

Just like the Davidson of yore

Welcome to the Davidson College of yore. Beer on the decks. Beer on my floor. Beer in people’s hair. This
is what I remember, though only vaguely—it was a long time ago. Man oh man, do I miss it. I
wonder where it all went to. Actually, I know it went to my head, which has a lot to do
with why I am still here. Unfortunately, I have a lot of experience with the parties of yore (I just
love saying “yore”). And, based on that, I have to say you people’s parties suck. Equally, unfortunately, there doesn’t appear
to be any blurry sun on the horizon. The moon has risen, and there is no music playing underneath it.
And whose fault is that? Well, I can’t rightly say, but it isn’t much fun getting angry with some stupid
lawmakers and a general public obsessed with the idea of gaining riches through lawsuits. The people I can blame, however,
are those who are yet to recognize the benefits of the “bring your own beer” party. Why not make every
non-host house member bring their own damn beer?

Buying beer, as Casey Hawthorne knows, can be an art, and an important one. Besides, all the extra cash means
that we would have enough money left over to pay those greedy little police officers unwilling to work past two
unless they are paid enough to buy themselves three new cars every year. Go ahead, make my day. And fraternities
might actually buy some food you can eat instead of those oversized cheese puffs. A light chicken in dijonnaise sauce
goes well with any buzz. And I can hardly imagine anything better than a good dessert—we few won’t have to
pay for everyone else’s night out.

After all, college is designed to prepare you for the future. God knows we spend enough time here studying things
that have absolutely nothing to do with our future and deserve some sort of training.

Cintra Pollack

When we outgrow traditions

A discussion of the church-school relationship at Davidson:

Some traditions should be coveted. Traditions outline the blueprints of who we are and what is expected of us. Traditions
mold our identities. But Davidson trustees, members of the administration, Dr. Kuykendall, hear my plea. Stop the inane tradition that
all Davidson trustees have to be of a Christian faith.

I almost did not come here. One reason I feared this community was the rule that only Christians could be
trustees. I am not Christian, and will never believe in what my religion views as the pleasant poetry of the
New Testament. However, even though I do not follow all the Christian precepts, I am not empty or without the
moral strength that religion often provides. It disheartens me to think that I arrived on this campus with a disadvantage;
I can never be a member of this community to the full extent.

Davidson was founded by Presbyterians, I know. Christian ethics imbue the social and moral codes of this school with strength.
I do not deny that. But the catalogue touts a diverse (growing more diverse) student body, which means more students
are arriving from backgrounds other than Christian and from homes far from the Bible Belt. By excluding these students from
ever becoming woven into the Davidson tradition beyond their graduation, you are robbing this community of the richness the admissions
office toiled so long to establish.

What is it you fear by changing this statute? By keeping it, you stand only to lose. Davidson, you hail
yourself to provide a strong liberal arts education. Without a board of trustees reflective of the many facets of this
community, you sacrifice the school’s new character; you inhibit your students from receiving a true, broad, liberal arts education. Abandon
this outdated tradition. Allow a board of trustees that celebrates the uniqueness and character each of us may provide, whether
we be Christian or not. You can handle it. Trust me, in the real world there is no free beer.
Unless, of course, you live at home and steal it from your parents.”Quick slurp of yellow jello between dances. But
I digress. Bring your own beer, damnit. I can assure you that the paltry ten dollars paid by independents this
year makes no dent in the monstrous amounts of money spent buying you beer. And I know the SAEs hate
buying the KAs anything. Besides, insurance costs are high now. Buy it, enjoy it. Just like the days of yore.

I have heard there will be letters to the editor in this issue asking where are the college directories, possibly
in response to last week’s call from “El Jefe” to “shoot the people in charge of the college directory.” The
answer: they are here and probably already distributed by the time this issue of The Davidsonian comes out.

The directory is one out of more than 500 printing jobs we handle every year, and it comes toward the
end of our busiest publishing season. Every year we look for ways to speed up the information gathering and checking
process for the directory and every year we end up frustrated when we can’t seem to make that happen. There
is a trade-off here: we could publish earlier and knowingly include inaccuracies and missing information. But I consider that to
be a greater evil among my choices. So every year we follow this schedule. And that is why about seven
years ago The Davidsonian started publishing student phone numbers in their first issue of the year. The information is incomplete
and in some cases inaccurate, but is a tremendous boon to the campus until the final directory can be published.
I hope The Davidsonian continues this practice. In addition, the Residence Life Office publishes a limited number of temporary student
directories. So the information people want is available well before the official directory is published.

This year’s directory is the most complete we have ever had: photos for all but two people out of 688
current faculty and staff listed, and for the first time ever, voice mail listings for students and email addresses for
faculty and staff. In addition, all photos are now scanned electronically (and photoshopped where needed), and as a result vastly
improved over previous years. Just pick up a directory from two or three years ago to see the difference.

The next major evolution of the directory will come once the entire campus is networked with fiber optic cable. Then
the directory can become a “living” electronic document available to everyone online 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
At that time, we may be able to eliminate a printed version entirely. Until that day, however, we will make
every effort to improve the printed publication and to speed up the process to get it delivered. But based on
10 years of experience publishing it, my best bet is that you will see next year’s directory toward mid-October 1996.
And if this is not good enough, well then, go ahead and shoot me. Make my day. Sometimes I think
I would welcome the firing squad.
