4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 1995

~ Week in Washington ~

The summer in review

By David Santschi
Washington Week correspondent

Well, we’re back at Davidson again after another painfully short summer vacation. During the hiatus from the college routine, maybe
you glossed over the news from our nation’s capital. Even though Congress was in recess for part of the summer,
here is a sampling of the stories you might have missed:

1. Bob Dole put off further debate on his welfare reform bill until after Labor Day, citing weak congressional support;
2. As the presidential race heats up, contenders Phil Gramm and Bob Dole finished dead even in an Iowa straw
poll;
3. Three top US negotiators sent on a peace mission to Bosnia were killed after the road they were traveling
on collapsed, throwing their vehicle into a ravine;
4. House Republicans passed deep cuts in welfare, job training, housing development, education, and other domestic programs;
5. Fiftieth anniversaries of V-E and V-J Days during World War II were observed;
6. The Korean War Memorial was unveiled;
7. Nearly every Republican presidential contender competed for attention at a gathering of Ross Perot supporters;
8. President Clinton urged a ban on tobacco advertising targeted at young people and that tobacco be regulated as a
drug.

More currently, the Chinese government released Harry Wu, a Chinese-American who has long protested human rights abuses in the communist
state. When Wu recently snuck into China to document these actions, he was promptly arrested and sentenced to 15 years
in prison for espionage. Wu spoke out for years against many Chinese practices, including the treatment of dissidents, using prison
labor to produce goods, and selling the organs of executed criminals. This “carefully timed effort” by the Chinese to improve
relations with the US was good news for Hillary Clinton, who wants to attend the UN’s Fourth Annual Conference on
Women being held in China. Mrs. Clinton was under pressure from human rights groups, the GOP, and Wu's wife not
to attend because of his imprisonment. Some believed her presence there would be inappropriate in light of China’s poor human
rights record. Mrs. Clinton expressed a strong desire to go even while Wu was held by the Chinese government. But
with Wu returned safely to American soil, the Clinton administration is spared a great deal of political heat from her
attendance.

This problem illustrates the difficulties in dealing with states that repeatedly violate international human rights protocols. Should Mrs. Clinton visit
China while a US citizen was imprisoned there for his political views? Did the benefits of the conference outweigh any
diplomatic problems her presence created? Whatever the answer, the controversy over her proposed trip shows just how hard it is
to preserve the balance between a desire for constructive change and toughness against totalitarian practices. The role that human rights
records should play in shaping US policies is an issue that will not go away soon.

Dean Rusk Japan formally apologizes

By Eric Sapp
Guest Writer

As might be expected, the fiftieth anniversary of one of the most important wars in history has been marked by
controversy. One of the biggest controversies revolved around Japan and its conduct during the war. Since the war, there has
been a great deal of controversy over what Japan should do about the huge number of rapes committed by its
troops in occupied Asian countries and its treatment of POWs and conquered people. The main reason that this issue has
remained alive so long and still plagues the Japanese government is that Japan has never formally apologized for its aggressive
actions which helped begin the war. It has been very hard for the government of a country which values honor
and custom above almost all else to admit that it made a huge mistake that caused immense suffering (even if
it was 50 years ago).

After 50 years, most of the Japanese people are willing to admit that they were the aggressors and should not
have attacked Asia and the US. However, until recently, the government would do nothing more than express a feeling of
regret for the consequences of the war. Two weeks ago, on the fiftieth anniversary of Japan’s surrender, Prime Minister Murayama
brought Japan into a new era and apologized for its actions during World War II.Fifty years before his monumental speech,
Tomiichi Murayama was a soldier awaiting the US landing in southern Japan. “Japan’s apology was accepted with genuine thanks by
the U.S. and Great Britain, which are happy to see one of the more publicized political barriers between Japan and
the West removed.”

SEA OF JAPAN
PACIFIC OCEAN
MODERN JAPAN
200 Miles

Like almost all of Japan’s troops at the time, he was ready to die for his Emperor and country and
had no doubts that both were totally in the right. After the war, though, Murayama went to college, studied Marx,
and became a socialist. His career in politics progressed until he was elected last year as a socialist Prime Minister
in charge of a very conservative coalition. Since that time, he has been in constant disagreement with his cabinet. Two
weeks ago, he took his boldest step yet and went against his cabinet by apologizing for Japan’s actions in a
press conference. He said that “in the not too distant past, Japan had followed a mistaken national policy of aggression
and colonialism which had caused tremendous damage and suffering to the people of many countries.” He concluded by stating “his
heartfelt apology” and pledging to put an end to “self-righteous nationalism.”

Japan’s apology was accepted with genuine thanks by the U.S. and Great Britain, which are happy to see one of
the more publicized political barriers between Japan and the West removed. The response from Asian countries, such as China and
South Korea, which were conquered by Japan, was not as warm. They received the brunt of the Japanese atrocities and
point out that there are still some in the government who insist that Japan has nothing for which to apologize.
However, whether Japan’s apology went far enough or represented the sentiments of enough of the government, it was made. That
itself is a major step toward healing the wounds of World War II.

No Hard Feelings

Thirty-two years after he needed the help of the National Guard to get past Governor Wallace and enroll at the
University of Alabama, James Hood, 52, has returned, this time to study for a Ph.D. And to prove he doesn’t
hold a grudge, Hood plans to ask Wallace — who once pledged to “bar the schoolhouse door” to prevent desegregation
— to hand him his diploma, come graduation. Now a dean at Madison Area Technical College in Wisconsin, Hood says
he realized even back then that Wallace’s stance was just a gesture. “I respect him as a human being. He
did what he did because he was the ultimate politician,” says Hood, who left Alabama shortly after he enrolled, in
part because of the pressure of national scrutiny. Since then, the school has erected a sculpture commemorating his first enrollment.
“I always said I would come back,” he says, “and 32 years later, here I am.”

-taken from 8/28/95 Time

Deadbeat dad must agree to payments to win release

New York — A judge has refused to free the man who is alleged to be the nation’s worst deadbeat
dad until he makes a deal to pay all or some of $580,000 in overdue child-support payments. State judge Phyllis
Gangel-Jacob sent Jeffrey Nichols back to jail Tuesday. Nichols’ attorney, Mark Kaplan, expected his client to be freed Friday, either
through a settlement or by paying $68,000 — the amount Nichols owed when Gangel-Jacob charged him with contempt in 1990.

-taken from 8/21/95 The Philadelphia Enquirer

Computerizing the Pap Smear

There’s no question that Pap smears save lives. Unfortunately, the test relies on lab technicians to notice abnormal cells that
may be scattered among hundreds of thousands of normal ones. Help may now be at hand. Last week, advisors to
the Food and Drug Administration recommended approval of two computerized tests — Papnet and Autopath QC — that automatically identify
the 100-or-so most distinctive cells on any smear, making them harder for technicians to miss. If approved, the new test
will enable labs to double-check any Pap smear for about $20 — and to catch many potentially deadly errors.

-taken from the 8/21/95 Newsweek

The Davidsonian

Wanted: Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter to write weekly column for Elsewhere

GIANT DELICIOUS BROWNIE WITH BEN & JERRY’S FAMOUS ICE CREAM, HOT FUDGE, FRESH WHIPPED CREAM

507 Providence Rd. 333-1003
The Arboretum 543-8333
202 S. Main St. Davidson 892-0604
