SPORTS MONDAY, APRIL 3, 1995

Rugby hopes to go out with a bang
By MIKE GUGGENHEIMER
Sports writer

This weekend, when Davidson’s rugby team takes the field for the state tournament, it will mark the end of a
great era for four seniors.

RUGBY

Simon Priestley, Tom Shelburne, Mike Kessler, and Jeremy Potter are part of a group that not only led the team
to an undefeated regular season this spring, but that has been integral in improving the program over the past four
years. Except for Potter, who joined the team as a sophomore, they have played since they were freshmen.

Tennis ends tough stretch
By ASHLEY MANER
Sports writer

On Wednesday, the women’s tennis team was defeated by N.C. State, ranked 35th in the country. This match ended a
week-and-a-half long stretch of matches against Georgia Southern, Georgia Tech, Charleston Southern, and NCSU.

WOMEN'S TENNIS

The trek began March 20 against Georgia Southern, the pick to win the conference. Despite close matches at all singles
positions, Davidson was defeated. Two days later, the team took on ACC opponent Georgia Tech. After losing to Davidson the
last two years in a row, Georgia Tech was out for revenge. The Yellow Jackets started off strong, and they
took the doubles point with ease. Davidson hoped for a comeback in singles, but they fell short and lost the
match 7-0.

Davidson fared much better the next day against Charleston Southern. Freshman Carrie Sloan made her doubles debut, and she and
her partner helped take the doubles point with an 8-0 win at the No. 3 position. Davidson continued to dominate
on its way to a 6-1 win.

N.C. State was the next opponent, and Davidson was excited about the challenge of facing another ACC team. The doubles
matches started off close. At the No. 2 position, Creecy Chandler and Ashley Maner jumped to a surprising 5-2 lead,
but they could not hold on to it and were eventually defeated. In singles, Debbie Mitan played well and led
4-3 in the first set, but she could not hold on. The team eventually lost 7-0.

But it has not always been undefeated seasons and lopsided victories. “When I started, we were really struggling,” Kessler said.
One of the biggest problems year after year is getting enough people to come out to practice. “This is the
first year that we’ve seen some big involvement from the freshmen,” Kessler said.

Potter attributes some of their success this spring to the freshmen involvement. He noticed a big change from the fall
to the spring—many of the younger players gained experience and were playing much smarter. Kessler said that the team's smart
play has been very important. It often competes against teams much bigger than it is, but Davidson would “end up
beating them by 20 or 30 points,” he said.

In addition to earning victories, knowledge of the game reduces injuries. “If you play right and play smart you’re not
going to have many injuries,” Shelburne says. With the help of their faculty advisor, Biology professor David Coppola, these four
seniors have instilled the knowledge and pride for the game in the younger players and feel confident that, despite their
departure, what they have built will be carried on.

Filling the cleats of Priestley may be hard to do, though. Kessler calls him “the heart and soul of the
team.” Priestley has been playing rugby since he was a kid and has played in leagues in Ireland and Scotland.
Said Kessler, “It helps the team to know he’s out there.” Priestley has always been their silent leader. But Potter,
who said he has “been impressed with the No. 30 at what looks like first base.”

Rob Kosicki

Men’s Tennis: Wofford and UNCC
By Scott TONIDANDEL
Sports writer

Monday, the men’s tennis team took on Wofford and got off to a great start, sweeping all three doubles matches
to take the doubles point. Then senior co-captains Holt Vaughan and Dan Grinnan dominated in the singles, and the Wildcats
took an easy 3-0 lead.

MEN'S TENNIS

But Wofford was able to regroup and win at the number two and three positions. Davidson had a chance to
win the remaining two matches, but Wofford fought hard and pulled out both of the matches in three sets to
make the final 4-3.

Wednesday, the team faced off against UNCC. Once again the Wildcats played exceptional doubles to win the doubles point. The
match was even at 1-1 when all five remaining singles matches went into the third set. Unfortunately, Davidson fell short
once again, losing four of them to make the final 5-2. Coach Jeff Frank said of the match, “With such
a young team, we can expect to lose some close matches. These losses willProvide invaluable experience when the conference tourney
comes." Davidson’s next match is Thursday against Appalachian State.

Intensity and tenacity of all the players,” saw Priestley step up his intensity this year and vocally inspire the team.
Priestley played a critical role in the team’s sweep of a double-header against UNCC one weekend ago. When the team
started slowly, he started yelling and screaming for higher intensity, at one point even yelling at UNCC players to tackle
him. The team has clearly come a long way since their freshman year. They are playing a higher quality of
rugby and have moved up to the First Division. Potter said that “it is more fun because everybody cares.” Once
the new players learn that it is not a sport of mindless violence, but rather one of skill and technique,
they begin to learn the finer points. A smart team wins more, gets hurt less and has more fun. “It
really is a sport of gentlemen,” Shelburne said. “It is one of the few games in the world that you
can play hard against each other for 80 minutes, trying everything in your power to stop them, and then after
the game get together, have a few beers and just sit around and talk strategy, talk rugby, talk whatever.”

Next Saturday, these four seniors will put on display what they have developed over the past few years. The state
tournament will be held here and at UNCC with the championship game at UNCC. And Shelburne thinks they have “a
fair shot of getting into the championship game.” Regardless, they still should be proud of what they have accomplished and
should take pride in what the team has become and will be in the future.

Baseball nears

By Bryan Allison
Sports writer

After a slow start this season, the baseball team is beginning to make a run for that ever-present status symbol
of respectability—the .500 mark.

BASEBALL

This week, the Wildcats ran their record to 12-17 overall, but slipped just under the .500 mark at 7-8. Davidson
hosted Wake Forest last Tuesday. The Deacons, probably still miffed at their loss to the Wildcats a week earlier, threw
major league draft pick Ross Atkins at Davidson. There would be no repeat of the upset as Atkins shut down
the Wildcats, who scattered just four hits in Wake Forest’s 7-0 victory.

The Wildcats then traveled to UNC-Asheville on Thursday. The wind was blowing out, and the runs came in droves. Davidson
pounded out 20 hits and prevailed 17-13. Offensive stars were plentiful, but none was bigger than Brad Edwards. He paced
the Wildcats, going five for six with two doubles, two home runs, including a grand slam, and eight RBI. Mark
Reilly went four for seven with a home run, Rhett Ingerick was three for six with an RBI and Gus
Quattlebaum went two for four with four runs scored. Brandon Davis got the win for Davidson. Dan Jonas pitched strong
in relief, and Chris Pollard got the last three outs, ending the offensive glut. “With the wind blowing out, it
was a tough day to be a pitcher,” coach Dick Cooke said.

The Wildcats took on Furman over the weekend, with a double-header on Saturday. Despite a 13-game losing streak, Furman won
the first game 6-2. Mordecai Stolk pitched six and two-thirds innings for Davidson, giving up only two earned runs in
taking the loss. Jeff Andrews went two for four with an RBI while Drew Van Culin also had two hits
and a run scored. Davidson came back and won the second game, a seven-inning affair, 2-0. Pollard made short work
of Furman, pitching a complete game, one-hitter. The hit was on a bunt single that involved a questionable call at
first base. He proved to be the only base runner of the day for Furman as Pollard didn’t even walk
anybody. Pollard only had to throw 65 pitches in improving his record to 6-2 for the season. Edwards continued his
recent hitting rampage, going three for three with a double and stroking his seventh home run of the season. Michael
New went two for three with a double.

Sunday, the Wildcats dropped a tough 3-1 decision to the Paladins. Jonathan Coulombe and Mills Arial combined to pitch a
good game, but Davidson was unable to get much offense going. As the Wildcats approach the halfway point in their
season, Cooke said, “We are pretty comfortable positionally right now.” Davidson visits Georgia Tech this week, a team the Wildcats
beat last year when the Yellow Jackets were ranked No. 1 in the country. Davidson then hosts Georgia Southern, the
“class of the league” according to coach Cooke, next weekend.
