THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1995 13

“The magic of made things”
Cort Savage’s sculpture displayed at Mint Museum
By SARA CARLSON
College Relations

Most people, when confronted with a hair dryer, know what to do: plug it into the wall, flip the switch,
and use the hot air that comes roaring out. Few people, however, understand the way the hair dryer works, why
it is shaped the way it is, or what is its ultimate place in the universe. They know how to
use it, but beyond that, the hair dryer is magic.

Cort Savage, the sculptor-in-residence at Davidson College, understands full well the magic of made things. “I don’t know how my
car runs, but I appreciate it,” Savage said. “Art can be the same way.” His current show at the Mint
Museum of Art in Charlotte is stocked with kinetic sculptures vaguely reminiscent of commonplace manufactured items. Whether they use materials
that surround us, such as floor mats and upholstery, or whether the overall shapes remind us of the everyday world,
such as snails or mufflers, Savage’s motorized sculptures draw in visitors to his show through an element of familiarity.

Appreciation of all the layers of Savage’s work requires time spent with the sculpture. Although his art may appear quirky
or even frivolous, each piece has a serious, underlying reason for existence; by implication, so does all technology. It is
up to the visitor of the show to find the meaning and to experience each piece with an open heart
(not to mention ear, eye, skin, and mind). Because of that, Savage says children have the best reaction to his
work. “If kids are interested, they pay attention. They have a certain willingness to experience — they’re not trying to
narrow their range of experience. They don’t put up any masks of pretend indifference.”

The Mint show contains five sculptures from Savage’s work in the last four years, as well as a collection of
wire “sketches” — small form models of shapes that interest the artist. He has purposely chosen works that occupy different
planes of the small gallery. One hangs from the ceiling, one is mounted on a wall, two rest on the
floor, one with electrical cords running up to the ceiling, and one both sits on the floor and projects onto
a wall. The pieces turn on and off at irregularly scheduled intervals, so each viewer has the opportunity to appraise
the sculpture both in activity and motionless silence.

Art professor, Cort Savage, relishes the diverse reactions his work brings forth. He does not intend the pieces to be
easy, and each piece demands visitors bring their own experience to bear. But the sculpture and Savage’s earnest desire to
engage visitors make a visit to the Mint well worth the trip. “Trouble only begins when people fail to bring
their own experience and their ability to have fun to the gallery,” Savage said. “If they think they don’t understand,
they feel intimidated. I see the visual arts becoming more information-oriented, art about information as a means of empowering culture.
What I think gets lost in that approach is experience. When you experience, you can both intellectualize and internalize. Then
the piece has meaning for you.”

For a man who began making kinetic art with little or no understanding of technology — the purchase of Radio
Shack’s “Basics of Electronics” launched his kinetic career — Savage makes art that performs to his specifications remarkably well. He
said the technology behind and within each piece came only with endless hours of trial-and-error tinkering. “With any piece in
the room, I’ve gone through a living hell getting them to do what they do,” Savage said. “The solutions are
simple, but they take ages to find.”on display at the Mint Museum through March 2. It is open from 10
a.m. to 10 p.m. Tuesday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Wednesday through Saturday, and noon to 5 p.m. Sunday.

Looking For A Summer Job??? SO ARE WE!!! Carolina Pool Management needs Lifeguards, Swim Coaches, and Swim Instructors. Summer Positions
available in the Charlotte area. For More Information: 704-362-0748. Check Us Out!

COLLECTIONS! is an information and social resource center for Charlotte's gay and lesbian community. In our relaxed, friendly setting, you'll
find... games, periodicals, and over 1,000 BOOKS available to borrow; DELICIOUS coffees, teas, and desserts; weekend ENTERTAINMENT and special events;
informal GROUPS like a bridge club and "twenty-something talk;" nice PEOPLE of all ages who enjoy a great ALTERNATIVE to
the bar scene; plus a whole lot MORE! COLLECTIONS! extends a warm invitation for you to visit us anytime. Just
call us to find out our hours and what's going on. We could be just what you've been looking for.
COLLECTIONS! (704) 333-SEEK 226 Baldwin Avenue Charlotte, NC 28204.

COUNSELOR: Camp Illahee for Girls, Brevard, NC, is seeking creative, enthusiastic individuals committed to building children's self-esteem and serving as
positive role models. Wonderful opportunity for personal and professional growth. Staff needed for: tennis, swimming, riding, kayaking, rock climbing, arts,
nurse, and more. For more information (704) 883-2181. P.O. Box 272 Brevard, NC 28712.

ON THE SCENE

Tonight
- Rev. Percy Reeves. “I want to reach this community.” 4-6 p.m. in the Big Screen Room.
- Gator Gumbo Cajun Band. 9:30-midnight in the 900 Room. Authentic Cajun music, dance instruction, food, and drink will all
be a part of this entertaining evening.
- Valentine’s Day Coffeehouse. 8:30-11 a.m. in the 900 Room. Come enjoy coffee and doughnuts while writing Valentine’s Day messages
to your friends.
- Internship/Summer Job Fair. 10:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. in Chambers Gallery. Different organizations are coming to talk about opportunities for internships
and summer jobs.
- Bone Marrow Drive. 9 a.m.-4 p.m. in the Morrison Room.
- Tryouts for Universal Wolf. 8-11 p.m. in Cunningham.
- Mexican Cooking Workshop. 6-7 p.m. in the Alumni House. Come learn how to cook and savor the taste of
great Mexican cuisine.
- Campus Forum - Affirmative Action. 7-8:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Come hear a panel of faculty and students
discuss some of the most controversial issues of the 1990s.
- Twenty-one-year-old night, 10:30-midnight in the 900 Room. Come drink lots of international beer.
- Tryouts for Universal Wolf. 8-11 p.m. in Cunningham.

Wednesday
- Dr. Bob Barrett. “What you Need to Know about AIDS.” 4-5:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
- Power of One. 9:30-11:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. This movie is the story of a young South African
boy of English descent struggling for his dignity in the midst of apartheid.

Thursday
- William Raspberry, a Pulitzer Prize-winning urban affairs columnist for The Washington Post, is coming to speak on why building
a community is so important. Don’t miss him.
- Dr. Nancy Dubler, director of the division of bioethics at the department of epidemiology and social medicine at Montefiore
Medical Center, comes to speak on patients' rights in the Morrison Room at 7 p.m.
- Indian Cooking Workshop. 6-7 p.m. in the Alumni House. Come cook and learn about delicious Indian cuisine.

Friday
- Power of One. 8-10 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Saturday
- International Night. 7:30-midnight in the 900 Room.

Sunday
- Sons of Abraham. 2-3:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. An all-male a cappella singing group performs gospel and contemporary
hits, ballads, and skits.
- Citizen Kane. 7:30-9 p.m. in the 900 Room.

All Week
- Senior Exhibitions. All week in Edward M. Smith Gallery at VAC. Open weekdays 10 a.m.-4:30 p.m. and weekends 2-5
p.m.
- Ansel Adams Exhibition. “The Man Who Captured the Earth’s Beauty.” All week in William H. Van Every, Jr. Gallery
at VAC. Open weekdays 10 a.m.-4:30 p.m. and weekends 2-5 p.m.
