SPORTS

MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1995

Kleeman busts down door with 2 big wins

By Witt Brapshaw
Staff Writer

The men’s soccer team broke its string of six consecutive losses with a crucial 2-0 victory over Appalachian State on
Tuesday at home, putting them in a tie for first in the Southern Conference with a 4-1 conference record.

MEN’S SOCCER

The Wildcats, however, didn’t let down and followed up the win with a 3-1 home victory over Wake Forest on
Saturday to run their overall record to 8-9-1.

“All season we have been really close (to beating top teams), but we finally did it this time,” midfielder Nick
Troiano said. “(Keith) Kleeman stepped up, and we see these two games as a turnaround point for our season. We
have been knocking on the door for 14 games, but we haven’t been able to get in until now.”

Kleeman, who scored four of the Wildcats' five goals in the two games, opened the scoring in the Wake Forest
game, pushing Davidson to an early one-goal lead, but Wake Forest knotted the score in the 29th minute when a
deflected shot corkscrewed past goalie and team captain Alex Deegan.

The game remained tied at one until Kleeman took a pass from Troiano, settled it, and ripped a volley past
the Deacons' goalie in the 75th minute. Kleeman put the game out of reach 10 minutes later when midfielder John
Eckman touched the ball to him on a free kick from just outside the penalty area, and Kleeman hammered it
into the lower right side of the goal.

“Kleeman had a career day. He picked the team up on his shoulders and played,” defender Pete Boylan said. “We
stepped up the intensity, especially in the second half. At the beginning of the season, we had trouble playing 90
minutes, but today we put two halves together and the team that wanted it more won.”

Boylan, Troiano, and striker Phil Julien stressed the importance of these wins, looking at them as building blocks for the
remaining two games against South Carolina and Marshall, and most importantly the Southern Conference tournament here Nov. 3-5. The Wildcats'
last home game is Sunday against Marshall.

“We hadn’t been playing as well as we were in the first seven to 10 games,” Julien said. “Now we
are starting to see a lot more of what we had at the beginning of the season. The conference tourney
is all that matters to us, and we are putting together the pieces so we should rise to the occasion
by then.”

Against Appalachian State, Davidson got on the board in the 17th minute when Kleeman finished a deflected shot by Robert
Clarke, who is tied for 10th in the country in goals scored and fifth in the South region.

See Kleeman on page 16

Wineberg leads first-ever win over ACC team

By Michael Kruse
Staff Writer

The women’s soccer team made the headlines this week, registering a 3-1 victory over Wake Forest on Wednesday for the
program’s first-ever win against an ACC opponent.

WOMEN’S SOCCER

Heather Wineberg scored early in the first half to give the Wildcats a quick 1-0 advantage and, with the score
knotted at one midway through the second half, the senior star struck again for the eventual game-winner.

Promising freshman Linda Rothemund clinched the game with a third goal late in the game.

Wineberg called the uplifting contest “a big emotional win over a really good team.”

The win against the Demon Deacons, coupled with tight losses to Clemson and Georgia Southern the last two weekends, brings
the squad’s record to a respectable 7-9-1 overall and 2-2 in the Southern Conference.

Davidson, the defending conference regular season and tournament champion, is once again in contention for the top spot, along with
Furman and Georgia Southern.

A win at Furman Tuesday and beating Appalachian State at home Friday at 4 p.m. would help the Wildcats greatly.

Davidson winds up the regular season by hosting Georgia State next Sunday before hosting the conference tournament Nov. 3-5.

The previous week, over fall break, the squad took a trip to Florida for a couple of games. In the
first, Davidson fell behind Central Florida 2-0 after 15 minutes, but came back for a 6-3 win. Lucia Plosser scored
with 12 minutes left and Claudia Lombard knocked home the tying goal with 30 seconds remaining, sending the game into
overtime. Wineberg tallied the winning goal and Kelly Schmidt, Natasha Vasavada, and Rothemund contributed goals in overtime.

About that game, coach Kevin Hundley said, “This was a great victory because we didn’t give up and stayed with
it to win.”

Allison Noznesky next recorded her fourth shutout of the season as the Wildcats beat Stetson 4-0. Four different players scored,
including Lombard, who was later named Southern Conference Player of the Week.

Returning home, Davidson faced Furman. The Paladins scored in the first minute of the second half and recorded another goal
on a breakaway for a 3-2 win, despite being outshot by the Wildcats 23-6. Against Furman, Wineberg and Lombard both
scored.

Then, on Oct. 15, Clemson, ranked No. 17 in the country, came to Davidson. The Wildcats played well against the
Tigers, falling 1-0.

About the Clemson game, co-captain Shannon Lowrance said, “This was a great game for us. We definitely frustrated them. They

See Wineberg on page 15

Soccer player, Lucia Plosser on a breakaway.

Rob Kosicki
