THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, MARCH 20, 1995 13

Virgin Machine: German symposium brings much-needed libido to Davidson

By DAVE WILLIARD
Staff writer

In a cinematic flash of homoerotic pornography, “stylized” sex scenes, and impressive sex toys, Monica Treut’s Virgin Machine played to a packed house on Saturday night in Perkins Auditorium. As part of this week’s German symposium on cultural studies, Treut’s film concluded a three-day conference that brought together scholars from Davidson and as far away as Montreal. The symposium focused on the changing nature of cultural studies and emphasized the need for humankind to learn more about the way culture informs and shapes human behavior.

The conference began on Thursday with two introductory lectures, one by Jonathan Petropoulos, Assistant Professor of History at Loyola College, and the other by Irene Kacandes, Assistant Professor of German and Comparative Literature at Dartmouth College. Friday and Saturday included four panel presentations and two round-table discussions. Davidson professors Burkhard Henke and Louis Ortmayer presented papers along with other notables from Harvard, Amherst, The New Yorker, and NPR, to name just a few. Professor Scott Denham, organizer of the symposium, is including all of the conference’s participants in a forthcoming book. The book will be a collection of the papers presented this weekend and will use Germany’s current cultural flux as an example of how humans can learn to co-exist in a world of dwindling resources, growing populations, and changing politics.

Maggie McCarthy, the newest member of Davidson’s German department, introduced Virgin Machine on Saturday evening. “This film will bring some much-needed libido into our midst,” McCarthy said. The film chronicles a German woman’s emigration to the United States to the lesbian pornography scene in San Francisco. Among the film’s many thematic threads, Treut humorously portrays both female and male perspectives. In the film, bald men glisten with the forehead sweat of lusty patriarchy, while lesbian prostitutes perform their trade next door to a sadomasochistic couple who prefer to have sex with monster clothes pins on their nipples. Only in California, of course...

Treut, who came to the screening from her artist-in-residency position at Hollins College in Virginia, held a discussion following the film. Unfortunately, Treut was evasive in answering questions and said that she preferred to leave her film’s interpretation up to the critics. That comment alone pretty much stumped anyone who wanted to ask her any more questions. Still, the German symposium was quite a success, and I hope that this conference will attract similar gatherings at Davidson in the future.

Lady Macbeth from page 10

The ‘witches,’ or ‘three weird sisters,’ were portrayed more as conjurer women. While they brought an eerie animalistic quality to the ensemble roles, the supernatural element of their hold over Macbeth was not as dynamic as it could have been. I would have enjoyed seeing them hover and cling to him more, infecting him with their prophecies. With his jovial, smiling face, Oscar James created a sympathetic Duncan, yet his weak vocal power made the murdered king less a figure of order and good. Roger Griffith’s portrayal of Banquo was also disappointing, and the bond between Macbeth and his character was never fully realized.

Nevertheless, strong supporting performances were given by Tony Osaba as Macduff and especially by Irma Inniss as Lady Macduff, in one of the most chilling murder scenes in this bloody play. With perhaps one or two mishaps, the sound of the production was excellent, and the metallic, "knifely” drumbeat between scenes was remarkably stirring. The lighting was similarly impressive, particularly during the murder of Banquo. And if costumes could always be this colorful and appropriate to the characters, plays could be told as much by their clothes as by the actors themselves. Since it was primarily up to Macbeth’s wardrobe to convey the setting of Africa, the costume design of this production was particularly powerful. But perhaps one of the aspects I enjoyed most about Stephen Rayne’s Macbeth...was the choice to have Lady Macbeth’s body brought upon stage after her suicide. Though essentially an artificial construct, it helped transform Macbeth’s famous “out, out, brief candle” speech from a lucid moment in his maddened delirium into one of tender grief and aching regret. Furthermore, it made it possible for the play’s final tableau to have the couple’s corpses stretched out upon one another, which, like Shakespeare’s Othello, reminds the audience what a dear price has been paid for pride’s sake: a love for which the couple should have lived.

Interested in Photo Journalism? Talk to Rob Kosicki.

OUTDOORS Etc.
You only get one pair of feet. Outfit them accordingly. Our footbed’s firm walking surface ensures proper support and weight distribution. Overall, this allows you to walk farther without discomfort, exercising your legs and improving circulation.

- Tough but flexible EVA soles. If you’re of average weight, you put at least 60 pounds of pressure on every step you take. Our soles are designed to absorb shock, yet they're remarkably lightweight.
- Deep heel cup. Our heel cup makes sure that the natural padding in your foot rests directly under your heel bone, where it can do the most good.
- Integrated toe bar. Our toe bar encourages the natural gripping motion of your feet.

The original comfort shoe. © 1995 Birkenstock.

THE SCENE

Novelist Sheri Reynolds, author of Bitterroot Landing, reads from her latest work and presents the Freshman Writing Awards. 7:30-9 p.m. in the 900 Room. Tonight.

Tuesday
Coffee House. 8:30-11 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Nobel Laureate James Tobin, author of Policies for Prosperity, comes to speak on his pioneering work in monetary theory and macroeconomic policy. 8 p.m. in the Chambers Gallery.
Twenty-one-year-old Night. 10:30-midnight in the 900 Room.

Wednesday
John Knecht, Professor of Art at Colgate University, discusses two recent video works which examine issues urgent to the human condition. 8-9:30 p.m. in Perkins Auditorium.
Saturday Night Fever. Part of John Travolta Week. He’s so sexy. 9:30-11:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Ben and Jerry’s Study Break. 10-11 p.m. in the Big Screen Room.

Thursday
Dewitt Crosby, a psychologist with the Davidson College Counseling Center, leads a discussion of women’s body images called “Our Bodies/Our Sexuality: For Women Only.” 7-8:30 p.m. in the Carolina Inn.
Caroline Whitback of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology will speak on “Truth and Trust in Scientific Research.” Part of the Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar program. 7-8:30 p.m. in the Chambers Gallery.
Arnold Mesches. Come meet the artist at this reception coinciding with his new exhibit. 7-9 p.m. in William H. Van Every, Jr. Art Gallery.
Jumpin Java Cafe: Poetry Readings by Davidson students. 9:30-midnight in the Union Outpost.

Friday
Baseball clinic with Minor League sensation Michael Jordan. All afternoon. Call Phil Jackson for details.

Saturday
ASE Drumming Circle is a women’s drumming and percussion group which performs both folk and contemporary music. Call -2140 for information on time and place.

Sunday
The Confession of St. Patrick is a religious drama performed by the distinguished scholar Roger Nelson. 8-9:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall.
Violin Recital by Davidson music scholars Amanda Merrill, Elizabeth Parker, Vidalia Scrivano, and Emily Davis. 8-9:30 p.m. in Vail Commons.
Steel Magnolias. Remember, a pound of manure is worth an ounce of pretension. 8-10 p.m. in the 900 Room.

All Week
Arnold Mesches Exhibition. “Selections from the Anomie Series.” In the William H. Van Every, Jr. Gallery. 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Monday through Friday, and 2-5 p.m. this weekend.
Senior Exhibition: Carrie McColgan. 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Monday through Friday, and 2-5 p.m. this weekend.
The Universal Wolf. A vicious new version of Little Red Riding Hood, presented at 7:30 Tuesday through Saturday, and 2 p.m. Sunday. Also, don’t miss a special discussion with the acclaimed playwright herself, Judie Schenkar, following the performances on Friday and Saturday.