6 7 THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1995

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
MANDY CURTIS
TERESA WHITE

Asst. Arts & Living Editor
KATHERINE HASH

Business Manager
ROBERT RAMSAY

Sports Editor
MATT PITZER

Operations Manager
JOSHUA BUCHANAN

Associate Editors
WILLIAM ROBERT
RUSS TARVER

Photography Editor
ROB KOSICKI

Advertising Managers
MEREDITH BENKE
ANDY BOSWELL

Assistant News Editor
JOANNA JOHNSON

Asst. Photography Editor
BRANDON CLARKE

Circulation Managers
CHLOE BROOKE
JEFF KENT

Opinions Editor
MCNEILL CARSWELL

Copy Editor
LAUREN FREEMAN

Arts & Living Editor
JOHN COPENHAVER

Editorial Cartoonist
CHRIS MOORE

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

LETTERS

Thank you for caring

What a closing. The Rhodes. Not since the first NCAA soccer Final Four brought thousands to our community in 1992 has a fall semester seen so much excitement. Davidson has undergone some exciting changes, and students have won some major victories. Despite flack from the trustees, we have a co-ed hall on campus and will continue to have one thanks to the quick and diplomatic reaction by students to administrative mandates. A national poll rates us dramatically lower than last year, which only works to strengthen our pride. The Patterson Court Council totally revamps the Court alcohol policy, introducing the pretty wristbands that decorate the grass in piles on Sunday mornings. Davidson not only reaches but exceeds Campaign goals. We get a page on the World Wide Web, thrusting us into the modern cyberworld. Trustees finalize new student Union plans; the Habitat House unites student efforts; a new Athletic Director moves into Baker; one of our very own is given a Rhodes Scholarship; both soccer teams win the Southern Conference.

It all comes back to soccer, apparently. Actually, it all comes back to the soccer players, and the Court members, and the Union Board members, and the rest of the students at Davidson. What makes this semester so memorable is the student victories that episodically surface — that constantly surprise us. We often complain that, as students here, we do not do enough to make our voices heard. But we do. We have voiced our complaints, our praise, our support, and our dedication not just in arguing over policies or fighting the administration but also in cheering for our sports teams, contributing to Habitat, or attending Vespers. Just as a professor lends credibility to her teaching by virtue of her education, students lend credibility to their concerns by virtue of their accomplishments, their drive, and their commitment.

In many ways we have embraced much of our Rhodes Scholar’s philosophy of making connections between action and thought. We have demonstrated the values of leadership, service, and scholarship that Davidson represents. We have succeeded in applying thought learned in the classroom to the world outside the classroom. Applying action to thought, as Letitia Campbell calls it, is what this semester has been about. We have asserted ourselves in crucial arenas of debate. We have proved ourselves on important fields of performance. We have learned to take a stand for what we believe in. And through this, we have united as a student body. Decisions that directly affect half of a single hall are seen as decisions that affect all of us. A committee project has grown into a community event. Your victory is my victory; your victory is our victory. Therefore, we have all benefited from the extraordinary events of this semester. We have performed in a skillful and mature manner, and we like to think that we have earned respect. When fans clap for the soccer team, they are clapping for all of us. When Letitia walks the halls, we smile with pride — for her and for Davidson.

To the editors,

The children and I wanted to thank the students and faculty of Davidson College for your sweet gestures and prayers during the illness and death of my husband Harold. With our deepest appreciation,

- Dana Gulledge
Courtney Gulledge
Shawn Gulledge

Union Outpost

Deny and ignore

To the editors,

Once again, the Davidson student body careens towards the inevitable end of semester climax, the Exam Period Game Plan. Slack or neurotic, everyone has one. For you first-year students, here’s the deal: The Strategy, stage one. Sure it changes hourly, but it’s a great way to procrastinate. It starts with the best-case, worst-case scenario calculations. Then, the tentative exam blueprint. The general consensus on this one is the hard first, easy later scheme. Get the worst over with Friday, go out Saturday night and take the next one Monday morning.The Rationalization. You really want to get out of here. Here’s the thought process: okay, so I'll take my first exam Friday, study all Friday afternoon and night, and then take the second exam Saturday morning. Right. Oh, how naive in the week before exams...

The Reality. Unfortunately, the rationalization soon degenerates into bedlam. So, it’s Monday night and I have three exams left. I haven’t taken off these socks since Friday, I watched Rolanda and Tempest today, I’ve eaten pizza for five nights in a row, and I just started studying for Exam Number Two. The lie is over. All bets are off. Who am I kidding?

Deny and Ignore. Don’t worry, the defense mechanisms kick in again. Once in Chambers Gallery, a strange calm sets in. It can’t be that bad... after all, I got into Davidson. I must be competent, right? Three hours and it will all be over. It is imperative to reach the final stage early in exam week. Remember the big picture. After all, exams definitely do not pass the coveted will-I-care-about-this-in-10-years test. Personally, when deep in the throes of Reality, I like to keep in mind my father’s advice: the night before an exam, go to the movies.

Back to the denial and ignore stage after the exams come to a close. Just forget about the accounting exam that killed you, the ENG 495 that brought you to your knees begging for mercy, the Calculus that brought you right back where you started in taking it over, or the religion exam you thought you could blow off but shouldn’t have. So back off, all of you professors for being mean, evil, awful, horrible, merciless individuals who obviously have forgotten what it means to be a student in college. Bah, humbug.

Sincerely,
Katie McKelvie ‘96

What’s the deal with Christmas

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

What’s the big deal about Christmas? I don’t mean the religious part, I think that’s very important, particularly if you’re Christian, but I’m talking about the social duties connected with what has been a perfectly good religious holiday for a very long time. Don’t get me wrong. I love Christmas. I just don’t think it’s very much fun anymore.

Here’s a hypothetical, it is early December. The air is somewhat brisk. It’s the kind of weather where if you stay outside too long you get the magnificent tingle/soreness in your nose and throat like winter has run a zamboni all through the inside of your head. It is time for you to go to the mall. Every other person this side of the moon will also be going to the mall, but what can you do? It is Christmas. You love your family and friends. They’re all getting you presents. They would be rather angry if you showed up for the holidays and gave them a nicely wrapped box of nothing. They might not give you any turkey. Or they might leave you out in the snow to let the zamboni run rampant on your throat. Anyhow, the alternatives are not very attractive. So you tough it out. You are a trooper. You head straight into the inferno, or the closest thing to Dante outside of LA at rush hour.

You get to the mall. It is just as you expected. You have to park across the street at Hardee’s because the expansion lot is filled with the vehicles of crazed shoppers. You are almost run over three times by angry drivers who must be suffering through a similar shopping nightmare, and you have only just come in sight of the mall. Finally, you reach the doors. You look inside. It is like looking into a glass cage where one of those controversial experiments with white mice is going on. Little red-faced people are running every which way in search of their own wedge of cheese, and something about the scene...

see Christmas on page 7