THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, MARCH 27, 1995 ° 13

ON THE SCENE ARTS & LIVING

International Arts Presentation
Discover a whole new world of poetry, art, and music
By Laura LEIBFREID
Staff writer

Have you ever wondered about the identity of one curious Indian man, riding his bright green bicycle up and down Concord Road? If so, I am proud to introduce Davidson’s very own Nirmal Selvamony, a Visiting Scholar this year from Madras Christian College. Professor Selvamony collaborated with Professor Stasack of the Music Department in developing a plan to explore a cross-cultural musical interpretation of five short Indian songs he wrote based on ancient Tamil poems. These poems will be performed within a larger presentation of international poetry, music, and art Friday, March 31, at 8 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

Each of the Tamil poems describes a different ecological living space: seacoast, riverine plains, desert, scrub jungle, and mountains. According to aged Tamil belief, these five regions possess their very own musical scale, or “pan” (pronounced “pun”), which is used to reflect a distinct human behavior or emotion. For example, the scrub jungle pan reveals a mood of patient waiting and domestic peace.

Using the pan as a starting point, four musicians, including Davidson alum Thavagunan Mahadevan, have broadened Selvamony’s style to incorporate the instruments and tones of other cultures. Their performance will involve everything from South and North Indian drums to the Korean kayageum.

Other poetry examining man’s relationship to nature will be presented in the program by Dr. Gill Holland and two international students, Jung Ah Shin and Thomas Wang. Their readings will include Chinese, Native American, and Korean poetry.

Beyond the collaboration of music and poetry, Cort Savage’s sculpture, “Myths of Rationality,” composed of thousands of glass lantern slides, will be reconfigured to add a rich visual backdrop to the event. His piece, first constructed in 1992-93, displays a wide spectrum of art and architectural images, expanding space and time. In addition, Ronnie Higdon’s innovative lighting will illuminate the sculpture and enhance the varying moods of the five eco-regions as we travel through them over the course of the performance.

All in all, the evening promises to be unforgettable. Your support and interest in an international collaboration of the arts will be greatly appreciated.

Brandon Clarke

Coffee talk and poetry in the Outpost bring many students and faculty members together for stimulation, ideas, and conversation, a marvelous supplement to our academic life. Zac Lacy and Sara Beasley jump and jam over java.

Perplexing from page 10

lately dressed butler. More dreamlike images make use of the same sort of ironic layering to expose the ironies of history: a girl swinging upside-down, a doll-house, and an invasion of paratroopers all share space uneasily in one painting entitled “1937; The Doll House.” In “1994; the Flea Market,” a pair of...

Where can you get a haircut, a manicure and pedicure, and a tan all in the same visit?

New Age HAIR DESIGNERS
A full service salon for men and womenNew Age helps you look your best for the spring season. Davidson students still receive $1.00 off services with a student I.D. SouthLake Shopping Center, next to Harris Teeter, Cornelius. Call 892-3067.

Bored men in cowboy hats preside over a heap of junk-shop artifacts which include small statues of Lenin. Here, history is reduced to kitsch, and nobody seems to care. With few exceptions, the paintings in the show are haunting, furious, and nearly terrifying. The horrors of barbarity and indifference are mitigated only by irony; the misuses and abuses of history are exposed here and allowed, in their bareness, to speak for themselves. The paintings lay bare historical fallacies and the aesthetic fallacy that successful art cannot or should not be socially engaged. Mesches understands and makes use of the fact that presenting the dulled and rusted axe of political activism can be as effective a way of making a point as grinding and wielding that axe.

INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT
Make up to $25-$45 per hour teaching basic conversational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S. Korea. Many employers provide room & board plus other benefits. No teaching background or Asian languages required. For more information call: (206) 632-1146 Ext. J53631 International Employment Group.

Tonight
Professor W. P. Stephens from the University of Aberdeen speaks on “The Churches of Eastern Europe,” addressing the background of the explosive religious scene in the formerly Communist regions of Europe. 7:30-9 p.m., upstairs in EU Hall.

Melrose Place Pre-Forum Party. 8-9 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Exploring Sexuality. FLAG presents the 5th Annual Exploring Sexuality Forum. Everything you wanted to know about sexual orientation, but were afraid to ask. 9-11 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Tuesday
Coffee House. 8:30-11 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Patricia Ireland, President of NOW, speaks on “Violence Against Women.” 7:30-9 p.m. in Love Auditorium, followed by a reception in the Chambers Gallery.

Twenty-one-year-old night. 10:30-midnight in the 900 Room.

Wednesday
Nationalities and Nationalism. “Managing Ethnicity in the Republic of China.” Presented by the Anthropology Department. 4:30-6 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Steel Magnolias. 9:30-11:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Thursday
ROTC/Red Cross Blood Drive. 10 a.m.-4 p.m. in Johnston Gym.

CROP/Hunger Awareness Lunch. 11 a.m.-1 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Take Back the Night. Survivors of sexual attacks tell their stories to help educate the community about violence and recovery. 7-11 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Friday
Music and Poetry. A collaborative exploration of eco-regional poetry from Tamil and other cultures, set to original music. 8-9:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall. See article for more info.

Saturday
Jumpin’ Java Cafe. 2-6 p.m. in the Union Outpost.

Sunday
Student Piano Recital. 8-9:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

In the Name of the Father. 8-10 p.m. in the 900 Room.

All Week
Arnold Mesches Exhibition. “Selections from the Anomie Series.” In the William H. Van Every, Jr. Gallery. 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Monday through Friday, and 2-5 p.m. this weekend.

Senior Exhibitions:
Carrie McColgan. In the Edward M. Smith Gallery. 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Monday through Friday, and 2-5 p.m. this weekend.
Carey Thompson. 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Thursday and Friday, 2-5 p.m. this weekend.