THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1995 17

Volleyball makes speedy exit from tourney
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Staff Writer

After enduring through an 8-24 regular season (3-11 Southern Conference) and a quick 15-6, 15-8, 15-3 first-round loss to eventual VOLLEYBALL champion Marshall in the Southern Conference tournament in Belk Arena, the Wildcats are already looking forward to next fall, which should bring significantly more wins.

Seeded second, the Thundering Herd simply boasted too much power for No. 7 Davidson. “I think we played as well as we could have,” coach Lisa Radford said. “Marshall is just a tremendous team. We really played our hearts out.” But ultimately, Davidson’s heart was no match for Marshall’s talent, as the Thundering Herd advanced, eventually beating Furman in the final on Sunday 15-7, 16-18, 15-7, 15-7.

The defeat also concluded the fabulous career of senior outside hitter Michele Augustin. As captain of a team that included only one senior and one junior (Ami Bondurant), but many freshmen (five) and sophomores (four), Augustin’s leadership, both on and off the court, was vital for this year’s youthful team. “Michele’s a tremendous athlete and person,” said Radford, who completed her first year as head coach. “She’s meant so much to the program in so many ways.”

The team’s most valuable player led the Wildcats with 360 kills for a .151 hitting percentage and also collected 448 digs, an astounding number that easily placed her atop the Southern Conference.

Janet Duncan goes up for the block. Rob Kosicki

Davidson nears end of certification
By WILL BRADSHAW
Staff Writer

The NCAA has recently instituted a policy requiring all schools participating in Division I athletics to go through a certification process, showing they are complying with certain NCAA standards for athletics. All schools must now undergo certification every five years, though Tom Kazee, Professor of Political Science and chair of the committee responsible for Davidson’s certification, said the policy will likely be changed to 10 years between certifications.

According to the instructional liaison who met with Davidson representatives, including Kazee, over a year ago, “The goal of the process is to get institutions certified.” It is not to filter out bad guys and punish them, according to the NCAA, but rather to identify who is doing things wrong and get them to correct the problems. Says Kazee, it is “not punitive, but corrective.”

Each school must investigate and report to the NCAA in four areas, which is the first step in the certification. Those areas are governance and commitment to rules compliance, academic integrity, fiscal integrity, and commitment to equity. Within each area there are not explicit guidelines but questions the school must answer. For example, in academic integrity every college has to report on the process by which student-athletes are admitted and compare student-athletes with the rest of their student body. If the NCAA is not satisfied with the academic abilities of the student-athletes or thinks they are given too much of an advantage in admission, the NCAA could ask that school to tighten admission standards for athletes.

Kazee stressed that the NCAA wanted to make certain that the athletic programs of schools had not gotten outside the control of the college or university and its president or chancellor. Davidson’s committee broke into four sub-groups to investigate each area and submitted a report to the NCAA in September.

The NCAA then sent a peer review team to Davidson made up of four people who work at different colleges and universities. Each person in the team focused on one area, meeting with the sub-committees and collecting information on Davidson athletics during their four-day stay on campus. They then made a report and recommendation to the NCAA committee on certification, which makes the final decision.

Davidson was given a chance to respond to this report and recommendation, the final step in the process. Thus, Davidson has completed the process but is awaiting a-

FREE TRIPS & CASH!
Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break company! SellOnly 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL NOW! (800) 95-BREAK!

She even led the nation after the first seven matches, averaging 5.38 digs per game at the time. “She’s such a good utility player,” Radford said. “She can play any position. That says a lot about the way that she sees the court.” Her court vision enabled Augustin to register 26 kills in one match this season. Capping off her magnificent career, Augustin recently became the conference career kills leader, having stockpiled over 1700 during her four years.

Having the difficult, albeit honorable task of trying to replace Augustin next season, will be L.A. Bumgarner. Although only a sophomore, Bumgarner led the Wildcats this year with a .195 hitting percentage and was second to Augustin in most other important statistical categories. Affluent in returning impact players, the Wildcats are optimistic about the future and a chance to improve on this year’s learning experience. A few up-and-coming recruits are also lined up. Looking ahead to next year, Radford said, “The number one thing is to improve our position in the Southern Conference, and I think that is a definite possibility.”

Wrestlers hold own in preseason match
By JOHN ROE
Staff Writer

The wrestling team traveled to the mountains of Virginia to compete in the preseason VMI tournament. Against a competitive field including George Mason, Washington & Lee, Virginia Tech, and VMI, the Wildcats held their own. It was a weekend of tough, close matches, most of which went the full six minutes. In fact, 13 of the 14 post-first round matches were decided by one or two points, providing some good preparation for the regular season. Matches decided by only a takedown at the very end are a good gauge of the team’s condition.

“We found out this weekend that we are just as conditioned as the other teams at the tournament, if not better,” coach Tom Oddo said. When the dust settled, the Wildcats had three place finishers. Bill Cameron took third place in the heavyweight division, Jake Hamilton placed third at 177, and Ben Wall took fourth in his weight class. Although they did not place, Miller Cary and freshman Christian Baker also wrestled very well. Oddo was pleased with the team’s preseason performance, and the Wildcats hoped to improve on that at the Pensacola tournament before returning home to host the season-opening Davidson Open on December 2.

Oddo also said he is concerned about the team’s health. “We have four starters injured right now, but we hope to have two or three back in action by the 2nd,” he said. If so, the Wildcats should look to make an impact this season based, in part, on their strong preseason preparation.

The NCAA committee on certification can make one of three decisions regarding a school: it can certify, certify with conditions that must be met within a certain time period, or not certify. Kazee is optimistic that the college will be certified without conditions. If a school is not certified, several things could happen. First, the school is given a set amount of time to correct the problems. If the problems are not corrected, the school is placed on one-year probation where they are not eligible to compete in NCAA championship competition. Finally, if the school still has not fixed the problems then it is removed as an active member of the NCAA and dropped to corresponding member status, which means that games played against that school would not count towards NCAA qualification for any tournament.

THE SMITH RIVER RANCH, WRANGLER FLY FISHING GUIDE
PRIME MONTANA GUEST RANCH IS SEEKING COLLEGE STUDENTS TO WORK FOR THE SUMMER OF 1996 AS WRANGLERS AT OUR CORRALS OR AS FLY FISHING GUIDES. MUST HAVE EXPERIENCE IN EITHER FIELD AND MUST BE WELL ABOVE AVERAGE IN PEOPLE SKILLS. SPECIAL CONSIDERATION WILL BE GIVEN TO GRADUATING SENIORS. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, PLEASE WRITE TO ELK CANYON, 1151 SMITH RIVER ROAD, SULPHUR SPRINGS, MONTANA 59645.