OPINIONS | MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 1995

Katie McKelvie

Where did the time go?

Where did the time go? I don’t want to be a senior and think about “life choices” yet! I want to sit around and discuss Amanda’s Melrose motives (and haircut) and take naps and go to the Union to see if all the green sourballs are gone yet. I can’t be a real person and wear uncomfortable shoes every day!

As my senior year ticks away, I can still relish the carousing and debauchery of bleary college nights — but not with the same reckless abandon I enjoyed as a freshman. It’s off to the career center and to writing resumes and beating down a three-year thick wall of denial. In other words, I’m seethingly jealous of all you first-year students who come parading in here without one worry. Soon, unfortunately, you will be beaten to a pulp academically (and have only C’s and D’s to show for it). But cheer up! Davidson does have many positive aspects, I swear!

So, as brand new members of the freshman class, I am leaving you with a few things that are amazing about Davidson College life:

1) You don’t have to pay for beer. Of course, this is pending the proposed Court social fees and excludes semester dues for eating houses and fraternities, but the point is, my friends, that on a drink-for-drink basis, the Court is free! How appalling to spend over $3 on one measly beer! I vowed never to curse the Court again (a huge feat for someone who has spent any time here at all).

2) Harris Teeter is open 24 hours. Oh, to wander the aisles of the Teet. For those of you not from the area, HT not only has a fabulous selection of fine goods ready for purchase any time of day or night, but you can also get one free cookie (honor bound) at the door.

3) You don’t need a fake I.D. Party on! Don’t worry, unlike your friends who chose the bar scene at state universities, you can have fun without false identification (that is if you’re in the shrinking minority at Davidson who actually leaves the dorm after 10 ...).

4) The Pub’s jukebox. This unit of tunes has a plethora of medleys for both locals’ and students’ enjoyment. However, sometimes it lies silent because pub-goers are spending their parents’ money on pool, etc. So, since everyone

Rosie Molinary

The length of youth

He had tried to apologize a few days before then. I avoided his eyes and walked away, convinced my disappointment would keep me from accepting his apology. The next day, I approached him. I forced out my words — describing my anger and disappointment as fairly as I could. I searched in his eyes for recognition: some sense of truth. He looked back with a deep sense of shame — so deep that it startled me. He nodded and then apologized; his eyes still holding pain in disappointing me with his actions. Satisfied that he understood, I quickly teased him to bring a smile back to his face. It was his smile I loved. Sweet and wide, it showed his resilience and strength.

Now, he stood before the class with an awkwardness I had never seen. His tall frame shrank and his hands pulled uncomfortably at the sides of his shorts. He looked at the wall, the floor and, finally, at her. She stood, proud and beautiful. Her smile revealed a mild discomfort. Her demeanor, however, showed an incredible patience for his anxiety. She leaned forward, inviting him to say what he thought of her.

The assignment seemed simple. One person in the class stood at the front and another classmate complimented him or her. Fifty students sat in the audience waiting. With each passing moment of silence, they, too, leaned forward in anticipation. He licked his lips and then broke the silence; his tenor voice filling the room.

“I think you are very pretty and smart and you’re the most mature girl in this class. And you are really sweet and ...” The pause built to an incredible climax; we all waited expectantly for his final words. “And I just hope that I can marry you one day.”

His tall frame collapsed into his seat. The class erupted in applause and cheers. She ran back to her seat — somewhat thrilled and slightly embarrassed. The guys were slapping him on the back and calling out. The girls shrieked in delight while she tried to disappear into her chair.

Later, I stole him away to talk. “I’m really proud of you. I know what you said was hard but I could tell you really meant it. Not enough people — especially 16-year-old males — have the courage to reveal their emotions. You did in a big way, and I am proud of you for it.”

He smiled back, pleased and shy. “She came and asked me if I meant what I said after class. I told her that I did, but the next time I ask her I will be on my knees because that is what she deserves.” He hugged me, whispered “Thanks” and ran off to his friends.

I marveled in his courage that night. His sincerity; his willingness to say what he really thought; to expose himself at an age and time where the repercussions could be painful or devastating. I reveled in his simplicity in doing what he needed to do; in saying what needed to be said; in loving because he simply wanted to love. He had to open up, dive into the confessional and free himself from private thoughts. Youth is that time where you dream that dream, believe in it and pool, etc. So, since everyoneknows freshmen spend more money than anyone else until they realize in November they have $11.72 to last them a month and a half. I invite you to put money in the jukebox and hear for yourself (“All My Life” by Aaron Neville and Linda Ronstadt is a personal favorite, thanks). If you’re low on funds, don’t fret because, as frequently-strapped-for-cash Anne Tilghman McEaddy often reminds me, “Freebird (live)” will last an entire pool game. What song is it you want to hear?

5) The art of Commons watching. The cultivation of this skill should command the utmost attention from every first-year Davidson student. Vail Commons at dinner is prime time for freshman inspection. The key, as any Vail veteran will tell you, is good positioning. Get there early and stay late for the best show. Be sure to notice those poor souls who wander out of the line with full trays unable to find their friends. Inevitably, they try to look cool while madly scanning both rooms for familiar faces. If desperate, these folks will even resort to feigning a trip to the salad bar in order to stall and regroup.

So, aren’t you glad you came to Davidson? What a wealth of stimulating cultural activities we enjoy! Anyway, take it from an old poop with only two more semesters left; take advantage of the time you have here. Four years go by incredibly fast.

It can take a long time to be young. The moment that one loosens up, dreams big, chooses uncertainty, and acts in the name of love—whatever that love may be—is when one becomes young. I had scolded him days before because he had disappointed me. On this night, I held him in the most divine light for teaching me to speak my love without apology; to show my passion without remorse; to share myself without expectations; to embrace youth without hesitation.

Jeff Kent.

Jefe’s pocket guide to Europe

While traveling in Europe this summer, I continually found the moron level of American tourists amazingly high. Of course, I also was one of these clueless voyagers, and if I cultivated anything while overseas it was a distinct talent for making a fool out of myself in several cultures (a practice which I seem to have mastered here in the States as well). However, I did manage to make a few observations about European life that may help out a few of you future travelers or study-abroaders. So pay attention, this is Jeff's Pocket Guide to ole’ Europa:

First, appreciate the ready availability of air conditioning and deodorant in the United States. I always thought those Right Guard ads were corny until I spent about four and a half hours wedged between two hairy, sweaty Belgian women in a non-air-conditioned train. Trust me, that’s not the kind of ménage anyone in their right mind wants.

Second, when hailing a taxi in Germany keep your fingers spread and avoid lifting your arm up in a stiff military fashion. They’re sorta sensitive about that whole Hitler/World War II thing, and you don’t want to make any movements that may resemble that “Heil Hitler” salute.

Third, if you think the cholesterol level in American fast food is high, don’t complain. A typical sandwich in Merry Old England consists of a tube of mayonnaise, maybe a little pork fat, and a couple of sticks of butter—all wrapped up in a poppy seed roll. You can actually see yourself getting fatter as you eat.

Fourth, while in France, bringing up the French military achievements during the twentieth century is not a good move in polite conversation. They are not all that fond of Americans as it is; if you aggravate them by mentioning how they got their butts completely kicked in both world wars they might be forced to thrash you with a beret or something.

Fifth, don’t ever, ever refer to an Irishman as British. The people in Ireland spend all their time sitting around drinking Guinness, singing really loud songs, and talking about how they beat the English in soccer back in about 1800. They are generally nice, easygoing people, but if you confuse them with the English they may throw you in Dublin River, undoubtedly the foulest body of water I have ever seen (I think they bottle it directly with a touch of motor oil to make Guinness, but don’t quote me on that).

Sixth, jogging is not a big sport in Europe. The concept of exercise hasn’t quite hit a lot of places. If you are running down the street people are likely to pull over and ask you if you need a ride somewhere. As a matter of fact, that actually happened to my roommate a few times during his morning jogs in Germany. He claims these friendly German motorists were trying to hit on him, but judging by his physique I’m guessing they just weren’t familiar with the activity of jogging.

And last, don’t go to the “Banana Bar” in Amsterdam looking to purchase fresh produce. Amsterdam defines the word “sketchy,” and lots of very seedy things go on there. From what I noticed, just about everything you could think of is legal there, which is good and bad. Anything goes, which is also good and bad. It’s interesting, but definitely not a place most sane humans can stand for more than about 48 hours. Avoid the town entirely if you don’t like Heineken, it’s quite popular there.

Well, that’s about it. If you remember this lesson you may avoid serious embarrassment, but then again, where’s the fun in that?