6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Week in Washington

Three more candidates throw hat in GOP ring

By ANDREA SHORT
Washington correspondent

With the New Hampshire presidential primary less than one year away, three more Republican hopefuls announced their candidacies. Conservative radio
talk show host and columnist Alan Keyes, California Governor Pete Wilson, and Pennsylvania Senator Arlen Specter all began the race
to the White House last week.

Keyes announced his candidacy last week at a meeting of the California Republican Assembly. Keyes, an African-American who served as
Ambassador to the United Nations Economic and Social Council and Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs under President
Reagan, hopes his conservative social views will win him support. Keyes advocates restoring family values and campaigns against abortion rights,
homosexuality, and teenage pregnancy. In his speech to the California Republican Assembly, Keyes demanded, “We can no longer afford to
follow leaders for whom the moral challenge this nation faces is an afterthought. The paradigm of all peace and security
should be the peace of the unborn child in the womb.”

Although his extreme conservatism may attract voters, Keyes has already been written off by many political analysts; frontrunners Dole and
Gramm share his social conservatism, but Keyes lacks the name recognition and fundraising ability that those candidates have already demonstrated.

Specter, another outsider, announced his candidacy outside the Lincoln Monument on Thursday. The third-term senator is a moderate Republican fighting
for the nomination in a time where conservatism seems to be the key word. A strong proponent of abortion rights
and an open adversary of the religious right, Specter hopes his centrist views will attract mainstream voters. Discussing the rise
of the GOP’s religious faction, Specter explains, “My biggest fear is that they spread intolerance and divisiveness — there’s a
lot of bigotry that underlies what they’re doing.” Specter’s argumentative style has hurt his popularity with many groups; the editor
of a Pennsylvania political newsletter said, “At one time or another, Arlen has made everyone mad.” Specter has advocated stronger
crime measures, replacing the current income tax system with a flat 20% rate, and maintaining the Department of Education despite
the present outcry to dismantle it. Specter is fiscally conservative and socially moderate, and his biggest challenge will come from
California Governor Pete Wilson, who shares many of Specter’s views.

Wilson has not officially announced that he will seek the 1996 nomination, but he has recently formed an exploratory committee
and visited New Hampshire last week. Political strategists believe Wilson’s late start may hinder him in the early polls; however,
Wilson seems to be catching up quickly. Along with shaking hands in New Hampshire, last week he attended fundraising events
in California, Washington, D.C., New York, and New Jersey.

A “centrist Republican,” Wilson advocates strengthening crime deterrents and punishments, ending affirmative action, and overhauling welfare. He has a strong
nationwide following and, like Specter, offers an alternative to the heavy-hitting religious conservatives. While he has declined to formally announce
his intentions, Wilson clearly has begun to test the political waters.

Sources include the March 27, 29, and 30 issues of The New York Times.

Dean Rusk

Tokyo gas attack signals growing terrorism threat

By GRAHAM ERNST
Dean Rusk adjunct reporter

In their investigation of Aum Shinrikyo, the religious cult suspected of releasing poisonous gas in several Tokyo subway stations during
rush hour last week killing ten and injuring thousands, police have uncovered evidence that the cult may also have been
manufacturing biological weapons. Over 160 barrels of peptone, a substance used to cultivate bacteria that cause fatal diseases such as
botulism, were discovered at the cult’s three-story compound in the village of Kamikuishiki near Mount Fuji. This is the same
site where tons of sarin, the chemical used in the subway attacks, were discovered earlier last week. No charges have
yet been brought against the cult or its leader, Shoko Asahara.

This most recent act of terrorism has brought an already horrifying threat to a new level with the involvement of
chemical weapons. The time when the public could dismiss threats of Armageddon and global warfare by cults has passed. The
Tokyo subway gas attacks offer a sobering example that visions of a “final world war” waged on humanity by Shoko
Asahara, “Venerated Master,” and the Aum Shinrikyo, “Supreme Truth,” have become a viable threat to international security. The World Trade
Center bombing in February of 1993, the first large-scale terroristaction ever to be carried out on American soil, and the
last-second discovery of a plot to bomb the Lincoln Tunnel in New York later that year prove that the United
States is not immune to terrorism. While it is possible that the media is overestimating the actual threat of chemical
warfare and terrorism, recent discoveries about Japanese research into biological warfare during World War II offer evidence that the world
is closer to chemical warfare than previously thought. Apparently, Unit 731 of the Japanese Imperial Army experimented with biological weapons
such as “plague bombs.” There are reports that the Japanese conducted “field tests” in Chinese villages to see if they
could instigate plague outbreaks.

One documented case indicates that over 3,000 people were killed in a medical experiment involving Japanese plague weapons and none
survived. Evidence has also been uncovered proving that Japan launched over 200 balloons armed with conventional weapons that rode prevailing
winds to the Western United States, killing seven. In July 1944, foreseeing an imminent defeat, the Japanese Parliament considered authorizing
germ warfare against the United States. However, Prime Minister Hideki Tojo vetoed the measure fearing the United States would retaliate
after winning the war. Tojo was later executed by the United States for war crimes.

The American public was protected from this information. By and large, Americans are not fearful of the threat of terrorism.
Only 12 percent expressed fear of terrorism after the World Trade Center bombing, down from 19 percent at the start
of the Gulf War. It is clear that the world is moving into a new era of terrorism and warfare.
Advancements in medical technology have empowered few with weapons that in many ways are more lethal than nuclear energy. Despite
international bans on germ warfare, the threat will continue to exist, posing hideous scenarios that few imagined ever possible.

Sources include 3-17-95 and 3-30-95 issues of the New York Times; 7-3-93 issue of The Economist; 4-3-95 issue of Newsweek;
Jan-Mar 1994 issue of Studies in Conflict and Terrorism; 8-26-93 Facts on File; 3-93 Gallup Poll Monthly.

MONDAY, APRIL 3, 1995

NOTES

Dramatic vegetarians

Over the past week in Ashe County, I witnessed thousands of chickens suffering slow and painful deaths by starvation. I
watched as thousands of chickens began, out of desperation, eating not only the carcasses piling up on the coop floors
but also the wings of other birds still alive. During a rare moment, I saw two young chickens basking in
the warm sun and “washing” their feathers in the dirt. For a moment I thought everything would be OK because
feed had finally arrived. But these chickens, too, were left to starve. I am plagued by the memory of one
chicken who had been crippled when she was trampled by other birds and was unable to reach the feed. This
chicken’s eyes met mine in a desperate plea for help, but it was too late for her; she died with
an aching gut and crushed legs. Chickens may not be as cuddly as beagles or kittens, but, believe me, they
suffer every bit as much. Any decent person who saw what I saw in Ashe County would never be able
to eat chicken again. Things like this go on every day across the country to some degree. More than six
billion chickens are slaughtered every year in the United States, and millions more die from heat exhaustion, freezing, accidents during
transport, and equipment failure. I urge shoppers to take individual responsibility for stopping cruelty to animals by refusing to buy
chicken.

-taken from a letter to the editor by Tracy Reiman which appeared in the March 27, 1995 Charlotte Observer.

Omicron Delta Kappa Staff, Community Member, and Faculty Awards

This year at Spring Convocation, the Davidson chapter of ODK, a national leadership fraternity, will present awards to a Davidson
College staff member who has made significant contributions to the college community, a member of the community who has made
significant contributions to the town of Davidson, and a member of the Davidson faculty for excellence in teaching who has
made significant contributions to the college community. ODK will accept nominations for this award from Davidson students. Please submit them
to the Dean of Students Office by 5 p.m., Friday, April 14, 1995.

"WRITE FOR THE DAVIDSONIAN. CALL Mary, CLarg, JEFF, JOHN, JACOB, OR Matt. -2148."
