4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1995

Shandley, Lewis stay with students
By Mary Clare Jalonick
News Editor

As a part of the ongoing effort to improve student-faculty communication, several professors have stayed in residence halls this year. Two weekends ago, Dean of Students Tom Shandley and Professor of English Cynthia Lewis braved Davidson’s dorm experience.

Shandley stayed on 3rd West Belk, a hall of male freshmen. He ate pizza and went to the basketball game with the hall. After that, they played cards until late at night. He slept on a bed in the lounge. Says Shandley, “It was a great chance to get to know a few guys well, and I hope that they will feel comfortable stopping by my office. Big events are not the way to meet the students.”

Lewis had a different sort of experience. She stayed on 2nd Acres and did not get to meet many of the girls on that hall. Instead, she went to court parties with the resident advisor. At first, Lewis “felt like an oddity... [I think that people thought that I was a monitor or something. I didn’t really feel like it was appropriate to participate, so I became an observer. Once I got used to that, I started talking to students I knew, and it was fun.”

Second Acres R.A. Tina Kanter felt that the students at the party “were really happy that she was there. It seemed like she had fun. I think that it was really healthy because I think that a lot of professors have a cloudy perception of Patterson Court.”

Lewis seemed surprised at the atmosphere. “It really struck me that the whole social scene has remained the same in many ways since the faculty went down there more normally when the drinking age was lower. But it has also changed in some more heartening ways to me—I felt that people were more comfortable with themselves. The genders seemed to be more comfortable with each other than when I was in school.”

Shandley sees this interaction as a wonderful way to increase relations among different sectors of the community. “We are trying to find more meaningful ways to increase the interaction. In the broader sense, I think that this is something that brings everyone together a little more. We will do this as long as people are willing.”

Third West Hall Counselor Dave Christopherson agrees. “It is a good opportunity for the faculty to see residence hall life.”

The experience seems to have brought out the best in Shandley. “They got me to do the twist at halftime,” he says, “and that is a major feat.”

Butts may be sold on campus
By Catherine Anderson
Staff Writer

The SGA passed a resolution Tuesday advocating the sale of cigarettes on campus. The proposal was drawn up by newly-elected SGA President Bill Gullan for the convenience of regular smokers and the safety of “weekend smokers,” those who only smoke while drinking.

“This is something that should be done,” Gullan said Tuesday. “It’s a matter of the safety of students who smoke.” The availability of cigarettes on campus

Perry’s Place from page 1
students’ role in the Union: “If the students want it, we need to hear it.”

As for the near future, Shandley sees two possibilities. “Either we do something immediately, which would be useful to students right now; or we bank it and keep raising money.” He doesn’t know yet which path to take but says that much will depend on the amount involved and the student access to the facility during construction.

Nat May, a member of the planning committee, shares Shandley’s enthusiasm for the project. “I am excited about the idea of using Johnston Gym as the new Union, with its history as the focus of the campus for many years.”would put students at a considerably lower risk of driving to buy more after drinking. Currently, the closest places to buy cigarettes are Backstreet Cafe and Dover’s, both of which close before midnight. The proposal will be reviewed by the future Director of Auxiliary Services, Richard Terry. Terry declined to comment on the future of the resolution until he assumes his position in April.

Dean Shandley and Hall Counselor Dave Christoperson reminisce about the lounge keg party and the strippers.

Liz Wellford Shine from page 1 tickets and made that the main focus ... we saw the lighting issue more at the forefront, because it concerns safety and security on campus.” Rudell says, “at the SGA meeting, people wanted to stress parking a lot more. We decided to send the letter ourselves ... we used the SGA as a backboard.”

Successful negotiating

Sutton, Thrower, and Director of Physical Plant Bob Collins met Wednesday, and Rudell and Dervan received word that they would have full funding for lighting. According to Dervan, the three administrators “had decided that student support for lighting was strong, so they will take money straight from the general fund of the college to improve lighting ... no matter how much it costs, it will get done.” Rudell says the administrators decided to take money from the general fund instead of setting up a security fund because “if you re-route money to different areas, it’s hard to keep track... that would just add more bureaucracy.” Rudell also says that they have obtained “pretty much a blank check” for lighting needs.

Finding problem areas

On Wednesday at 7 p.m., Rudell, Dervan, Thrower, Jonathon Orr (head of the SGA security council), and an electrician will walk around the campus to find areas on campus which most need improved lighting. Rudell encourages “anyone who has preferences (of lighting areas to be improved) to let us know.” Both Dervan and Rudell have already considered areas which need to be improved: the areas close to Chambers, Ridge Road parking area behind the senior apartments (which, according to Dervan, has no lighting and is considered by police a very dangerous area), Dormitory Row between Duke and Watts (where trees may need to be trimmed to allow lights to work more effectively), the area between the library and Duke, the area behind the library at the exit of Richardson and the Commons, and the sidewalk leading from the Union to Main Street (the lights on the path in front of Dana and DCPC stand several feet from the sidewalk itself). In addition, Rudell says that “some of the soft yellow glow lights really don’t do a lot” and may be replaced. The project will not be cheap, as, according to Rudell, “some lights cost $1,500 or so.” But, according to Rudell, “all the lighting that is necessary will be there by the end of the year.”

A victory for students

In the past, students (notably Orr) have tried to push the issue of campus lighting. Dervan asked Orr to help prioritize trouble areas “because I knew he had worked on this before.” Dervan also credits Dean Shandley for “being very willing to help fix the lighting problem on campus. We also need to give credit to Collins, Sutton, and Thrower for their swift action.” Dervan says, “This is a victory for the student body. It shows that the administration is willing to respond to our needs.”

DAVIDSON DIG IN CYPRUS - July 15 June 5

Informational meeting Thursday, February 9 at 8:00 PM in Chambers 312. Questions call Liz x6528 or Chris x6317.