THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 1995

The Davidsonian

LEIGH RAWDON - Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Executive Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Managing Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY - News Editor
RUSS TARVER - Assistant News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts & Living Editor
WILL COBB - Sports Editor
ROB KOSICKI - Photography Editor
WILLIAM ROBERT - Copy Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

WALT BARRON - Advertising Manager
CAROLINE BYNUM - Advertising Manager
SCOTT HILE - Operations Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN - Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD - Circulation Manager
ERIK SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

Et tu, Newt?

Newt Gingrich, the bomb-throwing back bench Congressman from Georgia, finally reached the pinnacle of Congressional power as a result of
the November elections. Presumably, the country will discover in time what has been visited upon it. The current incivility and
extreme partisanship in Washington is in large part due to Gingrich and his tactics. For years, he has attacked Democrats
and Republicans alike in his quest to discredit the Congress to a degree that would make it possible for him
and his followers to take over. They did so in what seemed like a lightning flash and startled most of
the country.

What still is not known is whether Gingrich is really a “revolutionary,” as he describes himself, or whether he is
in reality a hungry politician who wanted, above all else, to acquire power. Early signs point to the latter. By
first agreeing to accept a multi-million dollar book advance, Gingrich made it apparent that his concept of public service is
not as pure as he had represented. Only when he realized that the deal would weaken early perceptions of him
did he decide to take only a dollar advance on the book. And his waffling on the term limits issue
is the result of a newly discovered feeling that matters look vastly different when you are on the inside rather
than the outside.

The sad truth is that Newt Gingrich has always been primarily in pursuit of personal recognition and power. He does
have an agenda of issues that interest him, and he has developed a philosophy of government that has a certain
amount of coherence to it. But his unwillingness to rise above the petty self-interest and instincts of political survival for
which he has castigated others is disappointing. Time will tell. But our prediction is that he is not the messiah.
True revolutionaries are willing to risk all for their cause. A leader who really wants to change the system needs
to face and speak the truth. Gingrich has been willing to do neither. He knows that the balanced budget amendment
is a political gimmick. Why doesn’t he have his new House write a balanced budget? No constitutional amendment is needed
to do that. Why does he propose tax cuts when he knows that this is contradictory to the idea of
balancing the budget?

Unfortunately, the games of trying to fool the people have not stopped. We just have a new cast of characters.
For they all know that the budget can never be balanced without fundamental changes in the entitlement programs; they all
know that cutting out “welfare,” as most people define the term, will have little effect on the budget; and, they
all know that it would endanger their political hides to face those tough questions. Gingrich and his minions are not
going to face the issues forthrightly, and they aren’t going to solve the problems. When asked recently about his refusal
to endorse retroactive term limits, Gingrich said, “You can be for the concept of term limits without being a martyr
about it.”

Some people thought Gingrich, in his great fervor and zeal to right the system, might have been more willing to
be a martyr. Maybe that’s why the people of Georgia’s 6th congressional district have kept sending him back up Capitol
Hill. But he is no martyr. There may be no room left for martyrs on this hilltop. So, the country
must keep looking. Creating momentous change is painful, and those who do so usually pay a tremendous price in the
process. Political hogwash like a “Contract for America” almost always becomes a smokescreen that conceals the same old wheel of
power turning once again. It is not the rhetoric of true, self-sacrificing leaders. A revolution in the Congress may be
what we remember from 1994, but time will show that the hard and largely overlooked work of President Clinton and
the Democratic Congress to reduce the deficit is the most valuable legacy of our government in the early 1990s.

LETTERS

Nation of Islam visit justified

To the editors,

In the December 5, 1994, issue of The Davidsonian it was reported that the Black Student Coalition hosted a closed
meeting in the BSC house that included a speaker from the Nation of Islam. Several students attempted to get into
the meeting and were denied access. However, as was announced to the campus in a previous article in The Davidsonian,
this was not aCampus-wide or BSC event, but an invitation-only meeting for African-American and Latino males that happened to use
the house. As Tony Perez’s article stated, it was a retreat that was intended to be a motivational/goal-setting event for
minority men. Its purpose was to stimulate increased contributions to the Davidson community by African-American and Latino males. The retreat
format was not unlike what a lot of student groups do on campus all the time. As for the Nation
of Islam speaker, he was invited not because of his religious affiliation but because of his ability to motivate. Actually,
in the words of one student who I spoke with who was there, we need to give the students who
attended more respect for being able to make up their own minds on whether what is said about the Nation
of Islam is something they can agree with or not. Alan Staggers’ article did not accurately portray what was the
intended purpose of the event and it is unfortunate that he did not spend more time trying to find that
out before he made public assumptions about what it was. It is my hope that we will, in the future,
seek to understand before we judge and embrace attempts to further involvement on campus rather than divide and further segment
our various student populations.

Sincerely,
Tom Shandley
Dean of Students

Phi Delt's light display disrespectful

To the editors,

Those fortunate Davidson students who do not live down the hill might not have noticed the lights display atop the
roof of the Phi Delta Theta house during the week of final exams. A few members of Phi Delt decided
to show their Christmas spirit and their affection for the women of Connor House by writing “HO” with an arrow
pointing to Connor on their roof. In the spirit of appropriate revenge, a handful of Connor women made a few
adjustments to the roof, leaving the Phi Delts with a roof that read “HOG.” Admittedly we were wrong to tamper
with another house’s property, but that did not warrant the reply to our actions—a flashing sign that read “BOX” and
pointed to Connor. I do not think that every member of Phi Delt sees the women of Connor in such
a demeaning way, or that this...

See Peeples on page 4.

Berkey calls for objective teaching

To the editors,

News from Davidson sometimes travels slowly to those of us living temporarily in distant parts. I just received the November
28 issue of The Davidsonian, with its report that the SGA had passed a resolution calling for the elimination of
the standing requirement that members of the College’s Religion Department be professed Christians. In an editorial in the same issue,
you applauded the SGA for its action. Such a move is, of course, long overdue, although one should recognize that
the current members of the Religion Department are already among the most broad-minded and tolerant in our community. It is
encouraging to see the student body, represented by the SGA and the editorial staff of The Davidsonian, pushing for change
on this and related issues, issues which...

See Berkey on page 9.

Alternative Gift Fair reaps profits

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian
requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all
letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey
Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by
the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

I am happy to report that the Alternative Gift Fairs of the Davidson community were a smashing success. During the
Holiday Season, the community of Davidson raised over $10,000 to send to worthy projects helping people in need all over
the world. The Alternative Gift Fair held in conjunction with the Community Christmas Party in the Student Union sold “alternative
gifts” totaling over $5,000. A second fair held the following Sunday at Davidson United Methodist Church collected an additional $5,000,
bringing the total for the Davidson community to an excess of $10,000. This is a significant and exciting way to
celebrate Christmas! I would like to thank the student organizations that were instrumental in this process. The Chapel Committee was
very helpful in organization and planning for the...

See Gift on page 9.
