. RTS & LIVING MONDAY, MARCH 27, 1995

Music Review: Group in Perspective

Indigo Girls: A fan’s eye view

By Tom Bavis
Music Critic for The Davidsonian

Since the late 1980s, Atlanta’s Indigo Girls have quietly and consistently put out wonderful albums of poetic folk rock. Sharing
nearly equal singing, songwriting, and guitar-playing responsibilities, Amy Ray and Emily Saliers are folk’s Wonder Twins. Amy comes from the
Bob Dylan and Neil Young schools of music. She goes for the jugular every moment — distilling complex ideas into
simple lines and simpler chord progressions. Emily takes a more ornate approach, following the style of one of her idols,
Joni Mitchell. Typically, her songs have twice as many chords and more sophisticated, roundabout words.

As someone who has listened to each of the Indigo Girls’ six releases a hundred times, I have caught on
to their art, their message, and their progress. Here is an overview of their albums.

STRANGE FIRE. Released in 1989 by Epic after their major label debut succeeded, this was originally a self-made, all acoustic
project from 1987. Already their talent has fully bloomed — many of these songs are my very favorites. When they
want to inspire, as on the title song (“I come to you with my offering/I give you strange fire”), they
inspire. When they choose to bring you down, they do; Emily’s “Left Me a Fool,” one of the most powerful
tales of heartbreak ever written, is a good example. Though not the only excellent song on Strange Fire, “Left Me
a Fool” alone demands this album’s placement in any Indigo Girls collection.

INDIGO GIRLS. Most fans claim their 1989 major label debut has never been improved upon. Coincidentally, Indigo Girls boasts superlative
sales and the Girls’ only hit single, “Closer to Fine.” Emily and Amy approach the ten songs of Indigo Girls
in two ways: some are like “Closer to Fine” and flesh out the twin acoustic guitar attack with excellent harmonies,
percussion, and extra background instruments. The rest are like “Tried to Be True,” where acoustic guitars play a bit part
in mellow rock arrangements. There are no weak songs on this album, and the lyrics prove even more consistently strong
than on Strange Fire.

Take See Indigo on page 12

Something to write about ...

Novelist Sheri Reynolds awards freshman

By JOHN COPEHAVER
Arts & Living Editor

Last Monday evening all the freshman writers and English professors gathered together in the 900 Room anxiously awaiting the announcement
of the R. Windley Hall Award for the best selection of creative writing from the freshman class. The judge and
speaker, novelist Sheri Reynolds, graciously announced the awards, relieving the tense expectation heating the room.

The first place winner was Amber Sharick’s collection of poetry called Walking the Earth. Lorraine Eadie’s nonfiction piece Meredith and
Nathan Raley’s untitled work won second and third places, respectively. Stacey Thompson’s work Wandering Thoughts and John Roe’s work A
Memory Bronzed won honorable mentions.

After the awards were given, Sheri Reynolds '89, shared her own spellbinding work. First she read from a novel which
she is currently writing. Her use ofColloquial language and unique metaphors brought a sparkling realism to her first-person narrative about
a child’s struggle to understand the downfall of her self-destructive mother. She continued her presentation by reading two passages from
her first published novel, "Bitterroot Landing." Her main character, Jael, fights to find peace with herself after a hard and
abusive childhood. Reynolds’ storytelling ability is both enthralling and unique. She uses characters imagined in Jael’s mind to support her
main character’s growth. Once again, her language and style make characters believable and identifiable—truly bringing them to life.

Watching Sheri Reynolds giving out the R. Winley Hall Award was watching one writer passing the courage and inspiration to
keep on writing to other promising writers. She is truly an example for all Davidson writers to follow.

### Drumming up a new age in music: ASE (Ah-Shay) visits the 900 Room
By Dave Williard, Staff Writer

In an age of increased intracultural communication, world music has led the way by synthesizing different national traditions to create
new musical forms. Westerners may be most familiar with Peter Gabriel’s and Paul Simon’s recent efforts to meld African and
Western structures. The ASE Drumming Circle’s (pronounced Ah-Shay) Saturday performance in the 900 Room demonstrated a union of African, Caribbean,
South American, and Western musical traditions. ASE also did it with an all-female cast of Caribbeans and African-Americans. The six-person
group, based in New York, has performed for three years and has played dates in London and throughout the United
States.

ASE’s two-set performance included several Haitian songs, an original spiritual poem, an Old Testament Psalm, and several West African traditional
chants. Along with a solid harmonic sense, the group is rhythmically adept at African-style drumming. The members of ASE combined
on an original song and synchronized six African shakeres into a forceful rhythm. Four members took solos at this time,
and here the group’s rhythmic solidity shone. In a creative sense, Western music’s complex harmonic stress is akin to African
drumming’s polyrhythmic feel. African rhythms juxtapose a three-beat meter over a four-beat stress. Known as 6/8 time, this effect is
African drumming’s major contribution to world music. ASE succeeded in solidly combining both Western harmony and African polyrhythms.

The group played on a variety of percussion instruments, including bells, the African shakere, woodblocks, and congas. During the show,
Phyllis Bentley, the drumming circle’s manager, said that “we have been told that these instruments are too powerful for women
to be playing.” Later, Bentley explained that women for so long have had to play like men to be accepted,
but now there are enough master female drummers that women are able to draw from their female energy instead of
having to conform to patriarchal male traditions. As an appropriate ending to a powerful performance, ASE ended with this chant:
“I am every woman. Everything you want done, baby, I shall do it rhythmically!”
