THE DAVIDSONIAN

Visit Africa for a week
By Laura Dennis

A week-long celebration of African culture begins this coming Saturday. Africa Week will kick off with Kayaga of Africa performing
African dance, music, and drama in Love Auditorium. The week will continue through Friday, February 3, with events ranging from
games to speakers. “We want to bring Africa to Davidson,” comments Benson Musila, a native of Kenya and one of
the organizers. His hopes are that the week stimulates interest in Africa, especially for people who have not been so
aware of it in the past.

On Sunday, an African arts and crafts exhibition opens in Chambers Multipurpose Room and the College Union that will run
throughout the week. Several speakers are coming who will touch on sensitive issues such as the impact of colonialism on
Africa. Two films will also be shown; one on Monday entitled Sango Malo, and the other on Wednesday called Letters
to Alou. Also on Wednesday, Vail Commons will serve African food for dinner accompanied by African music. The week will
culminate with a dance on Friday night with the theme, “Africa’s Greatest Hits.” The week promises to be an interesting
one that hopefully will raise the awareness of African culture on our campus. For more specific information about dates and
times of events, please see next week’s Davidsonian.

The best and worst of 1994
Tom Bavis recalls last year’s musical hits and misses
By Tom Bavis

BEST ALBUM.
First Prize — Fumbling Towards Ecstasy. Over six months after its release, Sarah McLachlan’s third album still leaves me fumbling
towards my thesaurus to adequately describe it. Simultaneously ethereal and full arrangements combine folk, jazz, and pop into a beautiful
musical alloy. But the music only serves as a backdrop for McLachlan’s voice, arguably the best in popular music.

Second Prize — The Downward Spiral by Nine Inch Nails. This is one of the greatest albums you won’t want
to listen to again and again. That’s because its primary function is to make you really uncomfortable, like the popular
video for one of the CD’s few catchy songs, “Closer.” A sharp lyrical blitzkrieg marks the album, such as the
refrain of “March of the Pigs”: “Take the skin and peel it back; doesn’t it make you feel better?” Do
not take this on a romantic date.

WORST ALBUM.
First Prize — The Sign by Ace of Base. All six million American copies are equally vacuous. Is it 10
tracks of uninspiring dance music, soulless reggae, or updated Abba? All three.

Second Prize — 13 Above the Night by My Life with the Thrill Kill Kult. If this album attacks you,
don’t try to be a hero. Just begin running and never look back. This pretentious attempt at dance music fortunately
did not sell, probably because even the world’s biggest posers know when their ears are hurting.

BEST SINGLE.
First Prize — “Black Hole Sun.” Few people did not like Soundgarden’s second single from their Superunknown album. The ‘90s
triumphant answer to the ‘80s metal ballad. This song also boasts one of the year’s best videos.

Second Prize — The competition is so tough this year I made this a tie. “Basketcase,” their second release from
Dookie, single-handedly won me over to Green Day. With his mock English accent at its thickest, Billie Joe combines ‘80s
thrash with a touch of innocent ‘50s rock to make one energetic, addictive little tune. Similarly, my faith...in Stone Temple
Pilots grew substantially with the second single from their Purple album, “Interstate Love Song.” Like “Basketcase,” it perfectly melds a
catchy ditty into hard rock.

WORST SINGLE
First Prize — “Shine” by Collective Soul. Hands down, this song deserves the death penalty. A bad recording for starters,
particularly with its spineless drums, this sad attempt at the deep feel of songs like “Black Hole Sun” fails on
all counts except airplay. Please tell me, who likes this song?
Second Prize — “Don’t Turn Around” by Ace of Base. The one time I did listen to the album all
the way through, I still had to skip this one. “Don’t Turn Around” is so bad, it makes “All That
She Wants” seem to have an edge.

BEST VIDEO
First Prize — “Sabotage.” This Beastie Boys clip is one of the most entertaining videos ever made. I immediately wanted
to start writing scripts for a “Sabotage” ‘70s cop show starring the Beastie Boys. For example: Cochese goes underground to
snag a bunch of scummy angel dust dealers.
Second Prize — “Closer” by Nine Inch Nails. Like the new album, this video succeeds fully at its purpose of
unsettling you. Shot in a sickening brown hue, it begins with an exposed heart beating on a table and goes
from there.

WORST VIDEO
First Prize — “Never Lie” by Immature. Pathetic, exploited preteens sing to a girl as persuasively as Axl Rose. Dressed
alike in hip-hop uniforms as they sing on a beach, these...

See Bavis continued on page 12

Rachel leaves us with some of her favorite things

Rachel continued from page 10

movie. I first saw it when I was 13 and have rented it at least once a year since. It’s
an Italian film about a little boy named Salvatore growing up in a small town after World War II. The
life of the town centers around the local cinema, and the boy is fascinated by film. He befriends the projectionist,
an old man named Alfredo, and the film chronicles their relationship and Salvatore’s coming-of-age and ultimate departure from his home.
An incredibly poignant story.

Well, my tenure as arts editor for The Davidsonian is about to come to an end. I hope you will
welcome Jacob Abraham and John Copenhaver as the new co-Arts Editors; they are both extremely capable, and I think they
will do a great job.

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Brink
5 Kind of
14 ns
16 10 Bedouin
Ny i :
Davidson Women, See us for your MIDWINTERS' formals and accessories.
106 South Main Street, Davidson
896-8860
Open Mon - Sat. 10-6 * Layaway available
41 Certain bills
43 A utensil
44 Feedbag filler
6 Air current
45 Kind of delivery: abbr.
7 Football period
8 Bird of prey
46 Safe
49 Crimes at
9 Cookout's gu
53 Rugged cliff
10 “Little Women” author
54 Lawbreaker
56 Remove wrinkles
11 Bellow
12 Competent
57 — mater
13 Fearless
58 Serviceable, old
21 Took legal action
59 Title repeat
28honina
27 Meaning
62 Merriment
28 Burns
29 Potato state

DOWN
1 Formerly, once
2 Finished
3 Ambition
4 Hired hand
32 Sensed
33 Loafers and wing tips
