OPINIONS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1995

Tim Saintsing

Calling on the spirit of Hall Morrison

I hail from Lexington, North Carolina (as my roommate often enjoys reminding me), nestled deep in the heart of Davidson County. Yes, Davidson County, named for our beloved General William Lee Davidson, the namesake of this institution. When I return home on breaks and people ask me where I attend school, I proudly say “Davidson.” On one too many occasions, they inquire “Davidson County Community College?”, a distant cry from the academic prowess the halls of Chambers breed. This mix-up of institutions used to bother me, as it obviously still bothers people like Mary Wampler and Tehnez Parakh. Nowadays, this confusion doesn’t blow me over. I know what kind of an education I am getting here at Davidson, an education that may help guide me into the residency of 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue or a lifetime of leadership and service. I know my Davidson education is founded on the successes of Dean Rusk and half of the lawyers, bankers, doctors, and other leaders I meet.

The spirit of this school is, in a word, awesome, no matter the form it takes, whether it be in the volunteer fire department that put out the multiple fires of long ago or in the spirit we see fill the John Belk Arena on game night. Our academic prowess is incredible, though somewhat frightening. I, too, like Mary and Tehnez, have asked myself on numerous occasions, “What is all of this work really for?” I am comforted by both the successes of our predecessors and the foundation we are currently building for those to come.

An institution's name is only a tool that helps open doors to students’ future plans. It is only a tool. Yet, a successful future is built by a culmination of many eclectic tools. I believe this culmination is crafted here at Davidson, whether in the classroom, in a meeting, or on Patterson Court. Individuals, or as William Terry would say “many chiefs,” are molded on this campus of ours. Duke, for instance, has a national reputation. But how far does an institution get riding on a name built by a basketball program? Our institution has been creating individuals for a staggering 158 years. Here, our goal is to craft individuals so that, if society pries open the name “Davidson,” it will see a full individual equipped to handle the hurdles of the world, an individual prepared to teach the name game up to Duke.

From the Peanut Gallery: Dominick Talvacchio

The study of study

A brilliantly conceived scene of Aristophanes’ The Clouds finds Socrates, the center of the comic play, gazing intensely at the motions of the stars and planets, studying their revolutions and patterns. So intensely, in fact, that he is unaware of his impending doom: a hovering bird dumps its feces on Socrates' head. The suggestion is satirical; Socrates busies himself with the study of what’s around him and finds great joy and fulfillment in it. But the implication is that he remains totally ignorant of “real world” facts and circumstances. He is “somewhere else.” Neither he nor the results of his study can have any value because they are not applicable to problems of the world; knowledge is only food for Socrates' mind. A deep suggestion of this passage is that those who view learning as an end in and of itself are foolish; they live in “ivory towers.” I'd like to explore this perspective and what our relation to it may be.

There seems to be a growing preoccupation, on our campus at least, with the practical application of whatever it is that we’re learning here. This is not directed to the seniors who are hoping to use their degrees to land gainful employment upon graduation, nor is the source of this observation for the future engineers and other applied scientists who study at Davidson. For these people, practicality is an obviously valid concern. What I am trying to pinpoint is an attitude that permeates the academic aura of Davidson, an attitude that counters all that our founders surely wanted a college education to mean for its students.

Much of what we learn seems to have no further usefulness other than simply allowing us to learn more in the same area. For example, the study of pure mathematics does almost nothing for us other than make it possible to study and learn more about mathematics at deeper and more complex levels. Again, these pure concepts are often used to match patterns we find in everyday life and give us some practical application for what we learn. A pure mathematician, however, goes no further than exactly that: pure mathematics. The idea of pure anything is a very unattractive one to many students at Davidson. What is this good for? Why would I ever need to know this? These are questions that run rampant throughout the academic endeavors taking place daily on campus. These questions may not be totally unfounded or unjustified, for it stands to reason that one should not spend time concerning himself with some pointless endeavor. But here lies the crux of the issue. There is a strange lack of desire on the part of many Davidson students to consider learning as an end in and of itself, not as a means to a particular end. This is a troubling matter because it seems as though our entire notion of thought has become dramatically nolonger something to be enjoyed. It cannot be rewarding in itself. It is only a chore through which we reach something truly fulfilling. Of course, it is always appropriate to ask yourself, “What does this mean?” about what you’ve learned, to find some knowledge about your knowledge. To ask yourself “How can this help me?” is a different question which, though truly useful, can often lead us to forget all the good about learning for the sake of learning. Leave the working for a name to the outside public who will figure out what the Davidson community is all about. Allow them to discover us. Have faith that they will do so. Throwing our name, our academics, and our programs onto society makes this institution seem hollow, without substance. It is all in the words of Davidson’s first president, Robert Hall Morrison, who in 1838 graced Davidson’s first students with true words of wisdom. I pass these words on to you: “Those who estimate the worth of a college solely by the number and height of its buildings, the extent of the library, the apparatus and the amount of money expended in its support, will probably, for many years think but little of this institution. But those who prize sound instruction, virtuous habits, and Christian principles as the most essential constituents in forming excellency of character will, no doubt, rejoice in the increasing evidence of prosperity, and pray for our continued success.” It seems that Davidson could use a few more Morrisons here in 1995.

I was shocked, dismayed, and disturbed by the caption and photo credit which appeared under the map of China in last week’s Davidsonian, both of which referred to me, more or less by name. The subtle sexism and questionable attempt at humor of the captions were made all the more ironic by the fact that they were intended to accompany an article on the UN Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, a conference which dealt with, among other things, the presentation of women in the media. The Davidsonian editorial staff was promptly and, I believe, genuinely apologetic, and at this point, I am long past feeling personally offended by the incident. It does, however, fit into a larger pattern of behavior at Davidson that begs for attention.

At Davidson, we have successfully eliminated most of the institutional and formal barriers to gender equality — both women and men succeed in the classroom, provide leadership for campus organizations, edit publications, compete on the athletic field, cheer on our teams, and contribute in numerous other ways to the rich fabric of our community. For these important strides, we have many students, faculty, staff, and administrators, both past and present, to thank. We are now faced with more subtle, informal patterns of sexism and gender stereotyping that are difficult to recognize, nearly impossible to “legislate” out of existence, and very powerful in setting the tone of male-female interaction here. Obscenities spelled in Christmas lights on a fraternity roof. Party flyers bearing the image of scantily clad women, perhaps in clearly submissive poses, or hung only in men’s bathrooms. Captions in The Davidsonian. A senior party featuring the Bud Light Girls. A skit in which our woman Wildcat was carried off, flailing, by two male Wildcats. You get the picture.

In the words of The Davidsonian editors, we must recognize the significance of “the subtle and incessant messages fed to us every day, usually under the guise of innocent fun” (Editorial 9/18/95). I’m not implying that all of these examples of subtle sexism are intentionally demeaning to women. I suspect that many of them are not, that most occur without too many people thinking much about what they are doing, and that all of them, when pointed out, are dismissed either as harmless fun or as mere oversight. Humor and oversight, however, can be transmitters of deep and serious messages about the values of our society. At what point does a joke become more than a joke?

My point is that we are all responsible for thinking about our words and actions, as well as the words and actions of others, critically. Too often at Davidson these things slip by with a small reaction perhaps, but little serious discussion or response. In a small community, how do we help to free each other from the shackles of deeply rooted gender stereotypes? How do we critique the actions of those who we consider our friends and colleagues? These questions need to be discussed further, and soon. Again, in the words of The Davidsonian editors, “We are at fault when we don’t think about what [these images] represent (in effect, condoning them).” If we fail to recognize the subtleties of the messages around us, we are prey to them, and we risk being shaped by influences of which we aren’t even aware. A free and egalitarian society requires more than progressive laws and an educated citizenry (neither of which we can take for granted). We are all responsible for eradicating gender inequality in our society — here at Davidson, as well as in the larger national and world community. We are all responsible for thinking.