THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS | MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 1995

SGA fights campus copier scarcity

By Mary Laura Moretz

Students frustrated by long lines at the library photocopying machines now have reason to hope for relief. Last week, the
SGA passed a resolution supporting the purchase of at least one other machine for the library.

Like many of her peers, sophomore Maggie Slocum feels that the “big lines are a hassle, especially at the end
of the year when everybody has papers and projects.” Occasionally, students make it to the copiers only to find they
are out of service.

Senior SGA senator Chad Lloyd drafted a letter to Library Director Dr. Leland M. Park on behalf of the SGA
requesting “immediate progress” in the acquisition of additional equipment.

Even one new machine, says Lloyd, “would help substantially.”

Health center scrutiny

Nurse from page 1

job of student care, the declaration calls for a full-time doctor, more personal and confidential treatment, and fully-trained doctor’s assistants.

In the meeting, several members of the SGA related their experiences with the health facility, and there was a general
call for more specific information in the declaration in order to support the general claims more fully. It was finally
agreed that all interested members of the SGA should talk to Rudell in order to revise the declaration, which will
be presented at this week’s meeting.

Rudell hopes that the declaration will be finished so that he and the SGA can present it to David Staton,
Dean Shandley, and the trustees. Rudell also mentioned that the declaration could lead to a school-wide study of the health
facility.

Student Health Center Director Dr. David Staton is awaiting the proposal “with considerable interest.” Although he has not personally heard
very many complaints about the facility’s services, he is “very interested in any suggestions.” Staton explained that he is “on
common ground” with anyone who wants to see the facility “be the best it can be” and has a strong
interest in improving any areas of dissatisfaction to the degree that resources allow.

Staton added that after speaking to a group of students including Rudell last semester, he posted his own signs around
campus inviting any input — positive or negative — on student health services. Up until now, however, he has gotten
little response, but remains “eager to hear any comment.”

The revised proposal will be submitted to the SGA Tuesday.

Write for News. Call Mary Clare. -6332

If that turns out not to be enough, I guess we'd get to work on getting even more.” Lloyd also
says the SGA “would like to see the price per copy go down to 3 cents.”

Park says the prices in the library are already “considerably lower than those at most colleges and places in the
area.” As for obtaining a new machine, he says, “We're certainly looking into it. We have to collect data first
on prices and figure out the best location for new equipment.”

The main delay will be “a budget issue,” he says. “We have to determine whether or not adding a new
machine will be cost efficient. Since it would not be a funded item, it has to support itself.”

In the search for the right copier to buy, Lloyd hopes it will be possible to implement a “flexicard” system
like the one he took advantage of in his studies at the London School of Economics. The machines there were
equipped with a device that allows the user to put money onto a card — similar to the European “phonecard”
— which can be used to pay for copies until its amount runs out. Whether or not such a system
could work at Davidson and even when a new copier might arrive still remain indefinite. “It’s not all for the
SGA to decide,” Lloyd says, “but we’ve at least established that there is student demand.”

Conference Assistants Needed

Duties Include —
- Summer Conference Assistant
- RLO Office Assistant
- Resident Advisor for Ryburn
- On-Call and Weekend Duty

Benefits —
- $6.50 per hour/40 hour week
- Ryburn Apartment (Shared)
- 10 Meal Plan When Available
- Great Learning Experience

** Graduating Seniors Will Be Considered For These Positions **

Applications Available at the Residence Life Office

Deadline: February 8, 1995

Call x2188 or stop by for additional information
