THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, MARCH 27, 1995

NEWS

By JOANNA JOHNSON
Staff writer

Despite rumors to the contrary, North Harbor Café remains open.

The lakeside restaurant, popular with Davidson students and town residents, did experience difficulties last year after its owner filed for
bankruptcy. General Manager Patty Carithes says, “In the fall, it looked like we were going to have to close, but
we managed to pull ourselves out of the hole.”

North Harbor will be under new ownership, though the management will be the same. They will continue to offer the
same full menu at the same prices.

North Harbor Café will remain open, continuing to serve the Davidson community.

Sybil Tate

SGA takes action in response to student recycling petition

By CATHERINE ANDERSON & MATTHEW EIRICH
Staff writer and Asst. News Editor

On Tuesday, the SGA passed a two-part Recycling Program Resolution supporting an institutionalized recycling program on campus.

The resolution was prompted by a student petition circulated on February 8 and 9 which showed that 63 percent of
students on campus support an institutionalized recycling program and are willing to participate in it.

The first part of the resolution is designed to bring the problem to the attention of administrators and faculty. The
SGA hopes to draw their support for the establishment of such a program.

The second part was a student-led Efforts Proposal to organize a group of students to take action in improving current
recycling efforts. This part was designed to “give backbone to our petition,” according to Maria Whitehead, who has led the
crusade for recycling at Davidson. “Hopefully, through this proposal we will get all of the fraternities, eating houses, the Union,
and freshmen halls recycling.” The proposal was sent to President John Kuykendall on Wednesday for approval.

In order to implement recycling on the Court and on freshmen halls, the recycling committee asked for $200 to buy
recycling bins. The money was to come from the SGA’s discretionary funds. The motion was made by Vice President Warren
Buford.

While the vote to begin a recycling program was unanimous, many senators had reservations about allocating SGA funds at this
time.

Some senators felt that it was unwise to buy the bins before consulting with fraternities, eating houses, and freshmen halls
about their willingness to participate.

Those organizations or halls which receive the bins would have to sort their recyclables and carry them to a shed
about 50 feet from the Student Health Center.

Phi Delt senator and hall counselor Rick Onkey said during the debate, “There is no way you are going to
get anybody in a fraternity or on a hall to carry or sort anything.”

PiKA senator Kirk Roberts asked Whitehead why only freshmen halls would be asked to recycle.

She replied that it is easier to start with freshmen halls because they tend to be more enthusiastic and involved
in projects such as this. Also, she said, “It will cost a lot of money to provide the bins.”

Senior Class President B.J. Rudell also asked about starting with freshmen halls. He said if the petition showed that a
lot of support for recycling came from seniors, the recycling bins ought to be put in the senior apartments. Whitehead
didn’t have any statistics about support by class.

In the end, the SGA tabled the request for the $200. SAE senator Will Cowan said, “Before we decide anything,
we need to find out who supports it.” Onkey said the senators from Court houses should “talk to their service
coordinators” at a house meeting to gauge support. The debate will resume at Tuesday’s SGA meeting.

Student Advisory Councils formed

By MARY C. LARK JALONICK
News Editor

SGA President Bill Gullan’s first campaign promise has been fulfilled with the formation of three new Student Advisory Councils.

Student Advisory Councils to the Director of Auxiliary Services, to the Director of Residence Life, and to the Director of
Campus Safety have all been created to, according to Gullan, “get students together with administrators and hopefully find solutions on
an informal level.”

“It is important that students understand the administrators’ rationales for policy decisions, and it is equally important that the administration
remains in constant touch with the student body,” says Gullan.

The councils will consist of two co-chairs: one SGA senator and one other student. The other members will be a
group of students equally distributed by class and demographics; they will sit on the committee until they graduate. The administrator
will permanently sit on the committee.

Gullan is currently attempting to formulate better relations between the administration and students.

He says, “I have informed the faculty and the administration and instructed the senators that no resolution will get to
the floor of the SGA unless senators have consulted with the appropriate administrators.

“No bombs will be dropped in anybody’s lap, and no premature action will be taken by the SGA senate while
I am president,” says Gullan.

Capital One, America’s youngest, most successful financial services company has challenging, high-profile opportunities for:

BUSINESS ANALYSTS
MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATES
MODELERS
IS TECHNOLOGISTS
SUMMER INTERNS

Please send resumés to:
College Recruiting-CL, Capital One,
ATTN: 12061-0430, P.O. Box 85525
Richmond, VA 23285-5525

Capital One.
