THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20

Union photograph exhibit takes a look into

By GEORGE WELD
Art Critic for The Davidsonian

Something about the camera and something about American culture have combined to establish a tradition in photography that is nearly unprecedented in the visual arts: the study of marginal people. From Edward Curtis’ famous series of photographs of Native Americans to the work of contemporary photographers such as Andre Serrano, photography has paid more attention to the outcast, the disadvantaged, and the overlooked than has any other form of art.

“The Faces of the Homeless,” an exhibition of photographs by Jeff Carsten, hangs in the Union Gallery this week to celebrate Solidarity Week. This group of photographs partakes of this sub-genre of photography as it represents 25 men who are homeless in Charlotte but who come from all over the country and, apparently, from extremely varied backgrounds.

This show avoids one of the most obvious pitfalls of photographing the homeless, which is romanticizing their situation or trivializing it. The trade-off is that the photographs are not much in the way of an artistic achievement. Though they, in most cases, capture a warmth in these men that may be surprising, they don’t do it in a very interesting way. The images by themselves will not hold your attention for long. I don’t sense, however, that this failing is a very important one, for this show does do what it says it aims to do: “to put a face and a personality on the homeless population.” Nearly all of the photographs are accompanied by cards on which a brief biography and a few statements from each man about his situation appear. Between the photographs and these cards, the show becomes interesting, effective, and in some cases, quite moving.

The photographs help to undercut our stereotypes of the homeless, showing us men who are generally articulate, levelheaded, and motivated. They take more responsibility for their lives than most Davidson students probably do, demonstrating in this way the arbitrariness of all of our social positions. Woody Keller, one of the men profiled here, says he was once earning $50,000 a year working.

Ales ’n lagers inebriate

International Night in the 900 Room serves beers from around the world

By DAVE WILLIARD
Staff writer

Twenty-one-year-old Night, that mighty Davidson College Union institution, had some new beers up its sleeve this last Tuesday night. In deference to Solidarity Week, this week’s gathering was a special International Beer night, and the bartenders served some intriguing brew from the dark depths of the 900 Room’s walk-in fridge. Among the favorites: Newcastle Brown, an English selection that had Jay Jennings smiling all night. Tsing Tao was another interesting beer, a Chinese import that is rumored to be a homebrew, bottled by none other than the Eastern guru himself, Dr. Holland. Rounding out the regal menu was Watney’s, another English beer that the barflies seemed to prefer.

As German professor Burkhard Henke sipped a Beck’s and locked Scrabble horns with math professor Todd Will, he explained the tendency for younger professors to attend Twenty-one-year-old Night. “We are bachelors who have no social life or are neglecting our families. By the way, where’s Shireen?” [ed. note: Dr. Carroll agrees that Twenty-one-year-old Night is fun but maintains she does in fact have a social life.]

Perhaps the best part of it is its laid-back atmosphere. “It allows upperclassmen to interact in a random way with beer, but without the Court,” senior Allison Greenlee said. Hal Daugherty, senior Psychology major halfway on his way to Greenwich Village, said that “it’s a great place to go after FLAG meetings, to scope your constituents.” But no matter how you look at it, logic major Hiro Iwamoto said it best: “I like the elitist attitude about Twenty-one-year-old Night since all of us are at least twenty-one.”

By the way, festivities start up at 10:30 every Tuesday. Drafts are $1.25, domestics are $1.75, imports are $2, and pitchers are $4. What a bargain! Tip your bartenders! And if anyone is looking to sell a good...manual-focus camera, call me at 892-0275! Les from page 10

D’abord” (“Our Friends First”) by Georges Brassens. Their a cappella voices and energetic acting brought laughter to the tour group. Moving to Latin America, the tour stopped to see a performance of the heated dance — the Salsa. Janet Rodriguez and Tiese Manigo moved about the stage with the rhythmic music of the Salsa in the background. In each act, the students wore traditional garb from their respective countries. Their clothing alone brought international awareness to the diverse group gathered in the 900 Room.

The performance part of International Night ended with Doris Hermann’s angelic voice accompanied by John Seebach’s artful guitar playing. Her choice of songs alone showed Doris’ individual diversity. She sang songs in her native language, German, as well as in French, Spanish, and English! The audience was allowed to participate as well. The high point on which the show ended continued in the Morrison Room, where all were able to get another “taste” of foreign cultures. A variety of food was catered by local restaurants.

Overall, International Night was a wonderful experience for all. The reunion of so many students, and members of faculty and staff certainly represented a perfect, symbolic unity for the end of Solidarity Week.

for a computer company. Calvert Reid was employed until his legs were run over by a truck: “This is aggravating, boring and it hurts. My legs will never heal,” he says, in what is for me one of the more powerful portraits in the gallery. I have some questions about this show that qualify my interest in it. On the one hand, I wonder why all of the men were photographed at the shelter rather than on the streets, in the element in which we who are not homeless usually see them. On a more general level, I wonder why no women are included in this project; they are on the periphery even of this already peripheral population.

Steve Earl Southerland says he became homeless when his girlfriend dumped him. Terry Alexander is a self-described mama’s boy. Curtis Canada has a wife and children living in a women’s shelter in Charlotte. Women are integral to the lives of nearly all of these men; I wonder why they are only sketched on the edges of this show. “The Faces of the Homeless” is something to pay attention to and something to think about. In spite of the show’s deficiencies artistically and thematically, it gives a voice to people we all see but not nearly enough of us know. It does this without a hint of condescension or mystification, and it does it with enough force that if you take the time to read these men’s lives, they will sit with you for a long time.

Rob Kosicki

Ex-editor Alex Crumbley passes out at the table after pounding imported beers for an evening.

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Journey
5 Felt pain
10 Advantage
14 Took the bus
15 Gleam
16 Line of junction
17 Atop
18 Sample
19 Serene
20 Instructor
22 In theory
24 Male deer
25 Invitation letters
26 He stares amorously
29 Resident of: suff.
31 Ghostly
35 Makes happy
36 Auditory organ
37 Acts
38 Fleeing prisoner
39 Transaction
40 Nerve
41 Acting award
42 Difficult
43 Memo
44 Part of USA: abbr.
45 Pa
46 Tenon’s partner
47 Possess
48 Extremely angry
49 Length times width
50 State vigorously
51 Threefold
52 Devilish kids
53 Hardy's heroine
54 Flower part
55 Blinding light
56 US Supreme

DOWN
1 Journey
2 Felt pain
3 Advantage
4 Took the bus
5 Gleam
6 Line of junction
7 Atop
8 Sample
9 Serene
10 Instructor
11 In theory
12 Male deer
13 Invitation letters
14 He stares amorously
15 Resident of: suff.
16 Ghostly
17 Makes happy
18 Auditory organ
19 Acts
20 Fleeing prisoner
21 Transaction
22 Nerve
23 Acting award
24 Difficult
25 Memo
26 Part of USA: abbr.
27 Pa
28 Tenon’s partner
29 Possess
30 Extremely angry
31 Length times width
32 State vigorously
33 Threefold
34 Devilish kids
35 Hardy's heroine
36 Flower part
37 Blinding light
38 US Supreme

©1995 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

ANSWERS
HOME HOOUE OOD AV] H} BRODBOON BOBO0UDeE HOO Bao BRU BS0 OOOH BHOHDOUH OBRSDEE BO BDO ! HOBO SOHOODMD BODE 80 OBA OOH BOC DDHWDHOD DONDE OOH BOBO OOO OOS BOOOUR BOO BHU ORDO Onoe