6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Week in Washington

Packwood resigns from Senate

By David Santschi
Washington correspondent

In an emotional speech to the Senate last Thursday, Senator Bob Packwood (R-OR), 62, announced that he would resign from office rather than face expulsion proceedings for sexual misconduct and obstruction of justice. The charges stem from a three-year investigation by the Senate Ethics Committee, which last Wednesday voted 6-0 to recommend Packwood’s expulsion from the Senate. He is only the second senator since the Civil War to resign his office facing expulsion.

The Ethics Committee investigation began in 1992 when 17 women formerly employed by Packwood alleged that he made unwanted sexual advances toward them. The harassment, which occurred from 1969 to 1990, included fondling, “aggressive, blatantly sexual advances,” and “physical coercion,” according to Mitch McConnell (R-KY), who serves on the committee. Packwood’s diaries, included in the committee’s 10,145-page compilation of evidence against him, reveal lurid, sexual details of a man obsessed with the women he employed. He praises one woman for “bright eyes and hair and that ability to shift her hips.” He recalls drinking wine until he blacked out and boasts that he “made love to” 22 women.

The committee also learned that Packwood and Senator Phil Gramm (R-TX), now a presidential candidate, tried to avoid campaign finance laws to funnel money to Packwood’s 1992 re-election campaign. Packwood was also accused of obstructing justice by altering and deleting diary entries before he turned them over to the committee.

At first, the Senate voted against holding public hearings on the matter. However, a month ago Packwood demanded hearings. After its investigation, the Ethics Committee reported that Packwood made “uninvited and unwelcome sexual advances” on women, worsened by his “significant problems” with alcohol. The committee accused Packwood of using his position “to obtain employment for his estranged spouse in an attempt to reduce any future alimony payments.” The committee found that “Sen. Packwood purposefully selected and changed entries in his diary tapes... that could be incriminating to him.” It then recommended his expulsion.

After the unanimous vote for expulsion, the toughest censure possible, pressure mounted for Packwood to resign and avoid embarrassing hearings. It requires a two-thirds vote of senators to expel a member. But Packwood defiantly attacked the ruling as “totally and absolutely outrageous” and accused the Ethics Committee of defaming him for “stolen kisses.” As late as noon Thursday, Packwood told his staff that he would fight the sexual harassment charges. But after consulting with several Republican senators who urged him to resign, including Majority Leader Bob Dole (R-KS), Packwood realized that he would only degrade the Senate further by remaining. At 4:30 p.m. Thursday, Packwood began a resignation speech to a somber Senate.

“It is my duty to resign,” Packwood said in a tearful farewell to the institution in which he served for 26 years. “It is the honorable thing to do for the country, for this Senate.” He recalled the major issues for which he fought, including abortion rights and the tax overhaul of 1986. Afterward, a few senators eulogized Packwood’s career, some hugging him and weeping openly.

Dole wanted Packwood to remain in the Senate for “some reasonable time,” probably 60 days, to ensure an orderly transition. However, Democratic senators were outraged that Packwood was still managing bills on the floor after his resignation. Packwood agreed to leave the Senate by October 1.

Packwood’s resignation will have significant consequences. As chairman of the powerful Finance Committee, his “unparalleled mastery” of arcane tax codes and complex Medicare, Medicaid, and welfare legislation will be missed when the Senate struggles with these issues this fall. Packwood was also the floor leader for the Republican effort to overhaul welfare. The responsibility for guiding this legislation now falls to Dole, who is both majority leader and a presidential contender. William Roth, Jr. (R-DE), not known for his command of legislative detail, will replace Packwood as chair of the Finance Committee. A special election in Oregon will determine Packwood’s successor.

Sources: The New York Times, September 7 and 8, and The Washington Post, September 7

Dean Rusk

First hope for Bosnian peace follows NATO intervention

By Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk adjunct reporter

It all started on the 28th of August when Serbs sent mortar shells crashing into the streets of a market in Sarajevo. The result of this action was that 43 people were killed, 80 wounded; and with graphic pictures of the carnage flooding the media, American officials finally decided that they had to act. NATO launched its largest attack yet against the Serbs on...August 30. At two in the morning (local time), the first of many American planes took off to join up with European radar suppression and attack planes. As the first NATO bombs plummeted to their targets early on that Wednesday morning, the whole character of the war in Bosnia changed. After several years of threats and brief periods of action, interspersed with extreme embarrassment, a UN-backed NATO finally took action and set ultimatums it seems prepared to keep. NATO gave the Serbs until 11 p.m. (local time) on September fourth to move their artillery out of the mountains surrounding Sarajevo. So far, the Serbs have agreed to move the guns, but have not taken any action. As a result, NATO has reinitiated its bombing campaign.

From a military point of view, the raids were “disappointing.” Bad weather and planes that were too fast for the low altitude bombing contributed to the less than 50 percent kill rate of the missions. Many times a second and third mission had to be flown to destroy a single target. There was also one fighter shot down, a French Mirage 2000. The pilots of this plane are known to be alive, but there is debate as to whether they are being held captive or not. While NATO’s generals may be upset about the results of the bombing, NATO statesmen are not. The bombing received a quick and sincere response from the Bosnian Serbs who returned to the bargaining table.

The most encouraging change in events occurred on Friday when the two opposing sides agreed to the terms of a preliminary peace arrangement. The deal would not divide Bosnia Herzegovina into two separate countries, but would give the Serbs and Muslim-Croat federation their own territories inside the republic. The agreement would cut the Serb-held territory from 70 percent of Bosnia (which they currently control) to 49 percent. Even though the Serbs would be losing substantial territory, they would not be giving up any land which they consider vital and would be gaining some important regions that they had not been able to control through military means. The war is definitely not over. NATO continues to bomb, and the armies in Bosnia are still fighting. But for the first time in the 41-month-old war, there is hope of an end and leaders around the world are beginning to prepare for how their countries will interact and help a postwar Bosnia.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1995

Wendy’s manager in hot water for upbraiding workers

RICHMOND, VA — Three students have won the right to wear braids to work at Wendy’s Old Fashioned Hamburgers after a manager briefly banned the hairstyle as “prone to bugs and lice.” On their side, the students had the corporate logo, featuring a