THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 1995 11

Ansel Adams exhibition gives new perception of natural beauty
By George Weld

When you walk into the Ansel Adams art exhibit (and you should) in the Van Every Gallery, you will be struck by a series of strange sensations. Your first impression will be that you have seen the photographs before: Adams is the most famous and most published American photographer. Your second sensation will be feeling that you have never seen these particular images before. There is something mysteriously and powerfully different about seeing Adams’ photographs as prints rather than as reproductions.

You may also have a third sensation, as I had, that Adams’ pictures are not merely photographs by “The Man Who Captured the Earth’s Beauty,” as the title of this show puts it, but the work of a man who perceives and understands the earth’s beauty. Anyone who has driven through the mountains and the deserts of New Mexico, Arizona, and California has seen the actual landscapes of Adams’ magisterial and majestic compositions. His photographs have defined as much of the American West as they have defined American photography.

Adams’ most defining works are represented by this show. The back two rooms of the gallery are filled with the familiar Moon and Half Dome, Yosemite; Sand Dunes, Sunrise, Death Valley; Monolith, the Face of Half Dome and others of Adams’ famous modernist landscapes. They are imposing and austere, combining the spare composed beauty of Japanese artists such as Hokusai with an American grandiosity. Some other pictures include Old Faithful captured mid-gush, the Tetons in a gnarled and rocky relief against the sky, and the severe El Capitan. These images belong to the well-known Adams: the cool, epic, and bold Adams.

But there are other, less familiar photographs in this exhibition which make the show even more exciting. These prints reveal, in addition to his epic vision, Adams’ sensitivity to detail. The dogwood leaves in Tenaya Creek, Dogwood, Rain are luminous and seem to dance, providing a textured and playful contrast to the monolithic cliffs in the background. Winter Sunrise, the Sierra Nevada, from Lone Pine California sets the tiny figure of a lone cow against the Sierra Nevadas. This detail is set not only to contrast the cow and the peaks, but also to lyricize the composition. The mountains we react to in the only way we can — with awe. The cow brings us into the picture and gives us something more local and available to relate to.

This show also includes a portrait of Alfred Stieglitz, demonstrating that Adams’ excellent photography skills captured more than one sort of stone face. I can conceive of only one valid excuse for missing “The Man Who Captured the Earth’s Beauty”: if you are passionately attached to your Adams poster or your Sierra Club calendar. Your calendar reproductions will seem pallid when compared to the actual prints. You may find your passion waning and your frustration building not being able to see Adams’ original prints every day.

Kayaga entertained in Love
Photo by Rob Kosicki
Saturday night. See story on page 13.

HOME IS WHERE THE HEART IS.

The British revisited: the Beatles are back
By Tom Bavis

Disc two of Live at the BBC begins with Brian Matthew, host of the early sixties radio show “Top Gear,” saying, “The next few minutes are in the lap of the gods and the hands of the Beatles.” In retrospect, his off-hand segue rings of prophecy. In the course of over two hours of music and chatter that comprise Live at the BBC, the BeatlesSound divinely touched, spinning out performance after inspiring performance. As a Beatles fan, I got nervous when I heard that EMI/Capitol planned to release old radio show performances in anticipation of the Beatles release blitz planned for 1995. If these performances were any good, wouldn’t they have released them already? The unreleased archives of every other larger-than-life sixties icon have long since been exhausted (“Hey boss, here’s a recording of Jimi burping we haven’t put out yet”). The last EMI/Capitol release of previously unheard Beatles was a concert recording with more crowd noise than music. I joined millions of Beatles fans in a collective sigh of relief and an occasional smile when I heard Live at the BBC for the first time. The 56 early performances cleverly fade into each other or into one of the 13 segments of studio chatter, much like a radio show. The mono (and often shockingly lo-fi) nature of the recordings takes nothing away from the spirit of the songs. Actually, the spontaneously warm, wall-of-sound BBC performances provide a refreshing escape from the relatively sterile, perfectionist recordings of today. Even digital repairs and CD technology could not take these recordings out of the Sixties, and they are all the better for it. The first CD starts with the Beatles introducing themselves and breaking into a brief, aptly reworded “From Us to You.” The disc then builds to an early climax with “Some Other Guy.” Few songs have been attacked with so much fire — the recording almost overloads because they play so much louder than expected. When John Lennon yells, “Some other guy is making me very, very mad,” you can imagine the testosterone-filled fistfight he’s provoking.

---

Always DISCOUNT pricing
Always the GOOD STUFF
Always SERVICE, SERVICE, SERVICE!

Lakeshore Market Place
892-7882

---

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 PR Bb f Ss fe fy js fo
10 Jit fiz
13 Cocoa
16 White or Blue
29
30
33
Purchase and this coupon.
34 Woman
54
56
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71

---

VERMONT'S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT
507 Providence Rd. 333-1003
202 S. Main St. - Davidson 892-0604
Valid Until: 2/28/95

---

SPRING BREAK!!
Nassau/Paradise Island, Cancun, and Jamaica from $299. Air, Hotel, Transfers, Parties, and More! Organize a small group: earn a FREE trip plus commissions.