Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1995

Frederick Douglass Centennial Speaker champions Douglass as great journalist, a great man

By Wit Branshaw
Staff Writer

In a time when the press was the only window on the world people had available to them, Frederick Douglass used journalism to advance the cause of the abolition of slavery and, later, minority liberation. This is the theory of Dr. Waldo Martin, Professor of History at the University of California-Berkeley, who lectured on the life of Frederick Douglass Thursday in the Chambers Lobby.

During Martin’s talk, which lasted just over an hour, he stressed the importance of Douglass’ journalistic career, giving special emphasis to the societal framework of his readership and the fact that papers Douglass published were a distinctly and recognizably African-American voice.

“The person that bought the paper would not be the only person to read it,” Martin said. “It would be recycled and read at the dinner table, in bars, on the street, so that one paper might be read or seen by 50 or 100 people.” He continued to say that the papers Douglass published had two main goals: “first, the elevation and uplift of free blacks, and secondly, to get rid of slavery and end discrimination.”

Martin noted the extra power Douglass gained within his readership, which was mostly limited to Northerners with abolitionist tendencies. But Douglass did not begin the black press tradition. Freedom’s Journal was the first black journal to speak out against slavery; it began publishing in 1827. Douglass edited four papers in his lifetime: The North Star (1847-51), Frederick Douglass’ Paper (1851-59), Douglass’ Monthly (1859-63), and The New National Era (1870-73). Martin noticed the egotistical turn that the names of some of his papers took, saying it was also expressed in the three autobiographies he wrote. “Anybody who finds himself important enough to write about himself three times has to have a pretty strong self-concept,” Martin said.

Martin highlighted Douglass’ oratorical ability and his persuasive powers, saying he was an excellent speaker and so good at arguing that even when he would change his mind on issues throughout his life, he could still make extremely powerful cases for both sides. But the ability to speak and argue is not what Martin found most pertinent about Douglass, and it is not why he is remembered today. Martin underscored his importance as a man who fought for the dignity and freedom of all people. “He grappled with issues we are still grappling mightily with today: the

---

Film offers glimpse into life of Frederick Douglass

By Kirsten Recknagel
Staff Writer

Born a slave in the American South during the early 1800s, Frederick Douglass never knew his birth date or his father’s identity. He seldom saw his mother, a slave on a plantation over 12 miles away. Familiar with slavery’s physical brutality and dehumanization, Douglass became determined at a young age to gain his freedom and a sense of individual identity.

In memory of a man who devoted his life to the fight for the abolition of slavery, Davidson celebrated the Frederick Douglass Centennial last week. Wednesday’s showing of the biographical film Frederick Douglass: When The Lion Wrote provided an opportunity to learn more about the life of one of America’s most influential figures during the 19th century.

A slave throughout his childhood, Douglass experienced both violence and cruelty as a fieldhand as well as relative civility while working for an older couple. It was while working for this couple that Douglass began to learn to read, an achievement that would change the course of his life. Douglass’ lessons ended soon after they began, but the desire to learn had been planted in him. Trading food for reading lessons from anyone who could teach him, he eventually mastered reading and writing. Despite laws forbidding anyone to teach slaves to read or write, Douglass went on to teach these

---

Note: The text cuts off at the end, indicating there might be more content that was not captured in the OCR.issue of race, and its meaning and consequences, and what it means to be an American,” Martin said about Douglass. “He rejected the U.S. as a white country or a racially exclusive nation. He envisioned an inclusive America that ignored race and sex.”

Although he escaped to the North at the age of 20, Douglass continued his work to free America’s slaves. Soon after his escape, he was introduced to William Lloyd Garrison, publisher of the Liberator, the North’s radical abolitionist newspaper. Garrison invited Douglass to become an orator for the abolitionist cause. So eloquent that some doubted that he had ever been a slave at all, Douglass became a symbol to many of America’s possible future freedom.

When the Civil War broke out, Douglass welcomed it as a war of necessity, having become convinced that moral persuasion was not strong enough to free the slaves and destroy the institution of slavery. 

Ghosts from page 1

idea at the next meeting the Patterson Court service chairs had with Community Service Coordinator Catherine Turner. They were excited to find that the other service chairs were very receptive to the idea. Jill Stephenson, a service chair from Rusk, already had plans for a haunted house in the back of her mind. During the eating house skits for freshmen last month, she walked down to the basement of Johnson Gym and said she thought it was a pretty scary place. The service chairs decided that they would get donations from their houses, set up a free Halloween carnival and haunted house for the children of faculty and from the town. Keeping in line with the service idea, they also decided to accept donations at the event for Project Life. The service chairs then reserved the gym, ordered the tables, and spent several hours on Tuesday setting up the event. Members of the various groups sponsoring the carnival all came out for half-hour or hour shifts to work at the eight booths. The event successfully achieved both of its goals: to provide after-school entertainment for neighborhood children and to introduce freshmen girls to the service aspect of the eating houses and BSC.

FREE TRIPS & CASH! Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL NOW!

Frederick Douglass, 1817-1895. Courtesy of Dr. Barbara Ballard

Frederick Douglass

At the war's end, the 13th Amendment officially abolished slavery in America. However, Douglass was pained to see that although America’s four million slaves had been freed, they were still not granted full rights of citizenship in law or in practice. Legislated freedom did little to protect African-Americans from the oppression of the Black Codes and Jim Crow laws or the intimidation and violence of the Ku Klux Klan. Douglass believed that the solution to this situation lay in the vote. Consequently, he led the struggle for suffrage until the 15th Amendment was passed in 1870.

Never abandoning his cause, Douglass fought for equal rights and treatment of blacks throughout his life. Born a slave, he went on to publish three autobiographies, establish his own newspapers, one of which was The North Star, and serve as the United States Minister to the Republic of Haiti. Last week, a century after his death, Douglass was remembered both for his achievements and for his message that the people of America must “give up the idea that to degrade the colored man is to elevate the white man.”

WANTED! Individuals, Student Organizations, and Small Groups to Promote SPRING BREAK '96. Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS. CALL THE NATION'S LEADER, INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS http://www.icpt.com 800-327-6013