THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Week in Washington

Clinton offers new budget plan

By David Santschi

Washington Week

After vetoing the Republican budget package on Wednesday, President Clinton unveiled an alternative that he claimed would balance the budget in seven years. Using the pen that Lyndon Johnson used to sign Medicare and Medicaid legislation on July 30, 1965, Clinton reaffirmed his commitment to preserving government health programs.

“With this veto, the extreme Republican effort to balance the budget through wrong-headed cuts and misplaced priorities is over,” said Clinton on Wednesday. After the veto, Sen. Pete Domenici (R-NM), the chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, wondered whether Clinton truly “wants to produce a balanced budget.”

Budget talks resumed Tuesday after a five-day stalemate, with both parties accusing each other of distortion and bad faith. Clinton produced his plan Thursday to blunt Republican claims that he is obstructing the budget negotiations. Republicans insisted that the Democrats present a comprehensive proposal as an alternative to the plan Clinton vetoed.

Clinton’s budget differs little from his last proposal in June. The new budget cuts spending by $140 billion more than his previous plan. The new proposals are relatively minor: a five percent reduction in unspecified domestic programs, a new method of calculating inflation that would reduce entitlement payments, and the sale of government assets. Clinton would also raise the minimum hourly wage from $4.25 to $5.15. Clinton refused to cut “investments” in education, job-training, and environmental programs, and his tax, welfare, and Medicare proposals are virtually unchanged.

“We think it works. We think it’s credible. We think it’s defensible,” said White House Chief of Staff Leon Panetta. But Rep. John Kasich (R-OH) assaulted the plan as “17 days late and $400 billion short.” Other Republicans blasted the plan as a repackaging of old ideas. Despite such rhetoric, participants in the budget negotiations said the talks were more constructive on Thursday with both plans on the table. While neither plan will pass as law, they will serve as a basis for further progress.

The main obstacles to a negotiated budget are economic assumptions, tax cuts, and Medicare spending. Because each side insists on using its own forecasting agency in projecting economic growth, Republicans and Democrats are operating under different economic assumptions. President Clinton’s budget, which uses the forecasts of the Office of Management and Budget, is much more optimistic than congressional Republicans, who rely on the Congressional Budget Office. Under their differing projections, Republicans would have to find $812 billion in savings over seven years; Clinton needs only $465 billion.

Substantive differences center on taxes and Medicare, the federal health care program for the elderly. The Republicans would cut taxes by $245 billion; Clinton proposes cuts of $98 billion. Congress would cut $270 billion from Medicare and $163 billion in Medicaid. The White House proposes $124 billion from Medicare and $54 billion from Medicaid. The administration would not allow medical savings accounts, which Republicans strongly endorse. The administration would keep Medicaid a federal program and merely trim its growth, but Republicans would transfer control of the program to the states.

The differing proposals illustrate strong ideological division. Republicans are determined to reduce the size and influence of the federal government, while Democrats want to preserve federal control. While the status of the budget negotiations changes constantly, disagreement over the role of the federal government is as old as the nation itself.

Sources: December 6 and 8 of The New York Times

Dean Rusk Program

Japan looks for economic quick-fix

By Eric Sapp

Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

Recently, one of the world’s great countries disclosed a five-year plan that gives detailed strategies for how individual industries are to be run and sets specific economic targets for the future. But that country wasn’t Russia returning to Communism; it was Japan trying to figure out some way to get its economy back on its feet.

When most people think of Japan, they do not think of a country that is running a deficit larger than that of the United States. And up until last year, they would have been right. But recently, Japan’s economy has not been doing quite as well as the government has expected and they have been forced to go more and more into debt. In fact, Japan is predicting a governmental budget surplus of five percent of the GDP for 1996, a surplus that is twice what the United States is expecting.

Some, like those who propose the new five-year plan, are blaming Japan’s economic problems on its strong governmental regulation of industry. The new plan that Japan has proposed is supposed to address these problems. It will try to solve Japan’s immediate economic woes by setting goals and timetables for major deregulation of industries to be carried out between1997 and 2003. There is great optimism among the writers of the plan that if it is implemented, it will bring about an economic revival. There are those, however, who question this theory. There is a strong resistance to decentralization both within and outside the government. This resistance has only been strengthened by a recent boom in Japan’s economy. However, analysts warn that this recent economic growth is only temporary and has been at the expense of the future. Increased taxes and decreased tax rebates planned for 1997 will slow economic gains. And the gains of big business, which has been the major force behind the recent growth, have resulted almost exclusively from cost-cutting. Sales have remained the same, and firms have made profits simply by turning to cheaper foreign suppliers and cutting corners in production. These trends have resulted in an average of 1,300 smaller firms going bankrupt each month and an unemployment rate of 3.2 percent. As Japan’s economic problems mount, the government is desperately trying to find a way to turn its economy around. The problem is that all its ideas so far have only been quick fixes. Japan is finally facing the economic problems that the United States faced during the 70s and 80s. And like the United States, Japan is turning to those options which lead to a quick fix for current problems while creating even larger economic problems down the road.

NOTES
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1995 - 5

Colorado Tightens Rules on Student-Teacher Relationships

If professors at the University of Colorado want to date students in their classes, they’ll have to let their superiors know about it. Colorado becomes the latest school to set up guidelines for student-teacher relationships, hoping to avoid any liability in future sexual harassment cases. The new policy covers the potential student relationships of staff members as well. “This is a way to protect the student, the professor, and the school,” says University spokesperson Pauline Hale. “This isn’t about moral judgments or forbidding relationships. It’s simply a way to ensure that students are not taken advantage of.” UC’s policy is similar to policies at other universities. Some schools, such as UVa, have placed an outright ban on relationships between professors and students in their classes. At Iowa, “amorous” relationships between faculty and students are forbidden when the instructor has any direct responsibility to the student. Other schools, like Vermont State College, have guidelines spelling out the administration’s disapproval of student-teacher relationships, though there are no provisions that directly ban them. -Courtesy of College Press Service

Campbell Community and Religious Life, and to apply for the Rhodes. The application to the Rhodes included several letters of recommendation from Davidson faculty and administration and an essay on “faith, religion, and thought.” Campbell spent the past week in interviews in Alabama and Texas. She believes that all of the 12 nominees in her district with whom she spent four hours waiting for the announcement of the winners were all qualified. She says, “All of the candidates were so interesting ... I felt humbled to be in their presence.” Campbell gives her professors who wrote her recommendations much of the credit, “I’ll be bowing to my professors tomorrow; I owe a lot of it to them.” Campbell says much of her interview consisted of identification and analytical questions, including a question of whether she would abolish the doctrine or the ritual of religion if she had to decide today. Says Campbell of the selection, “I think they look for people who know what they think and stand their ground but who are also willing to listen to others. The committee wants to hear what people think as well as how they think under pressure.” In addition to the Rhodes Scholarship, Campbell also holds a Stuart Scholarship, Williams Challenge Scholarship, Lettie Pate Whitehead Scholarship, Samuel H. Bell Scholarship, Tylenol Scholarship, Presidential Scholarship, and a National Merit Scholarship. Campbell only regrets missing rehearsals this week and thus being unable to play the flute in Sunday evening’s annual pre-Christmas Vespers ceremony.

Treat Yourself Today!
Sculptured Nails * French Manicures * Pedicures * Tanning Booth
At The Duchess we offer you a day of stress-free pampering.
Tanning Special: 10 visits for $33.00
New addition to our store: Facials by Peggy
CONNIE AND MICHELLE: Full Set of Nails for only $40.00 (thru February)
Located at the Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St., Cornelius
(704) 892-7030

SOUL SOURCE New Age HAIR DESIGNERS
A full-service salon for men and women
Come in for any of our many services: cuts * perms * hair-coloring * manicures * pedicures
Select from a line of Paul Mitchell, Matrix, Logic, Nexxus, Sebastian, Abba, and Goldwell hairstyling products.
*Christmas Special*
10% off all cuts and styles
Southlake Shopping Center
Next to Harris Teeter
Cornelius, NC 892-3067 with this coupon.