THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1995

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
MANDY CURTIS
JEFF KENT

Opinions Editor
DAVID SANTSCHI

Copy Editors
ROBERT RAMSAY
TERESA WHITE

Arts & Living Editors
JACOB ABRAHAM
WILLIAM ROBERT

Associate Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
KATHERINE HASH
RUSS TARVER

Sports Editor
MATT PITZER

Advertising Managers
WALT BARRON
MARY CLARE JALONICK

News Editor
CAROLINE BYNUM

Photography Editor
ROB KOSICKI

Assistant News Editor
MATTHEW EIRICH

Circulation Manager
CRAIG MURPHY

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

“Toot, toot,” goes our horn

Hey, prospective, did you know that Newsweek ranked Davidson second only to Stanford for its demanding undergraduate workload? And U.S.
News and World Report ranked us number eight of the top liberal arts colleges in the country? Did you know
they call Princeton “The Davidson of the North”? Did you know that our college newspaper is considered the “South’s Foremost
College Weekly”? Did we mention that this year’s freshman class’s average SAT is 13-something?

Though we may just look small, and we may actually feel small, that doesn’t mean we don’t just compete with
the Wake Forests, Dukes, and W&Ls of the South, but also with the Williams, Dartmouths, and Pomonas of the North
and West. Truly, Davidson continues to climb up the ladder to fame and notoriety, to the upper echelons of higher
learning. No longer will we be confused with Davidson County Community College or with Dickinson or Dennison. Clearly, we have
begun to make a name for ourselves — the name that we deserve.

So don’t worry, unaware, frightened, ambitious little prospectives; Davidson really is a great school even though your friends might not
know about us. They will know us soon, we swear. Really, we’re so smart.

Oh, Davidson. What are we doing? Why do we suffer so greatly from the little-person-syndrome? Yes, we do have a
lot of work. Yes, we do have a beautiful school. Yes, we do have an amazing faculty and staff. And
yes, many of us are pretty smart. We can’t help but think about where we stand and how the outside
world perceives us when weekends like Decision Davidson roll around. Certainly, we have to sell ourselves and our school to
a certain degree; we wouldn’t have reached the $150 million campaign goal had we not sold ourselves so well for
the past five years. We do need to sell Davidson to prospective students in order to perpetuate the level of
excellence we have worked so hard to reach. And we do need to sell ourselves for the sake of employment
after May 21.

However, we shouldn’t feel like we have to force and reinforce our academic prowess, our reputation, and our name on
society as a whole to the point that we demean ourselves. Moreover, we should take pride in our institution and
not worry so much about what others think. Let people figure us out for themselves. Have faith that they will.

We should let Davidson speak for itself through pure facts and actions. We should let prospective students sift through the
colleges and universities themselves. Those who see the magic of Davidson are the ones we want — not the ones
who have to be swayed from skepticism. Besides, do we really want to become such a sought-after school that we
lose ourselves to the rat race of college-hunting? Do we really want Davidson to become a business or a factory
where we ship them in and send them off like bottled milk: generic, competitive, and with one-track minds? Don’t we
want to protect our hidden gem for those deserving?

Above and beyond everything, we need to realize that intellect and ability shine through whether or not people know where
you go or went to school. People usually have more respect for those who don’t have to force-feed their social
status, money, reputation, and intellect. We should have more respect, pride, and confidence in ourselves, so that we can let
our thoughts and actions speak for themselves.

JUST ANOTHER VICTIM OF THE NEVERENDING VOICE MAIL MESSAGE

LETTERS

Reasons for PCC proposal

To the editors,

We would like to clear up some common misconceptions resulting from last week’s article concerning the proposed changes to the
alcohol policy. Independent students will be charged for alcohol. TheProposed Patterson Court membership fee, a flat fee to be paid
at the beginning of each semester, would go directly into a risk management fund. That is, a fund to cover
the cost of the police, risk managers, and trained bartenders. In the past, this money was provided entirely by the
Dean of Students office, but will be withdrawn due to budgetary restraints. In addition, it is expected that only one-third
of the total cost of risk management will be provided by the Independents’ contribution. The remainder will be covered by
the Patterson Court organizations. It is imperative to note that this money will be going toward things from which we
all derive benefit: safety and security. This is not a “war on Independents.” Consultations with those in the legal profession
have made it frustratingly clear that we are naked in the eyes of the storm of litigation that could result
from any mishap. Consequently, we must alter the current system. Parties will still be open to everyone who wishes to
go, provided that they make their intentions known by contributing to this fund. We realize these changes are not the
result of popular demand. Rather, they are the result of economic realities, issues of risk management, and the safety of
members of the Davidson College community. The culture of trust and honor that pervades this campus is regrettably not as
significant to lawmakers as it is to us. Changes will destroy the Court. The Task Force, with these changes, is
attempting to continue the tradition of open parties on campus, rather than force them into becoming closed functions as national
risk management guidelines suggest. By closed functions, we are referring to members-only parties with a very small guest list. We
agree that this idea contradicts a sense of community for which Davidson strives. We realize these are major changes, but
we urge you to look at the reality of the situation and recognize that these proposed changes are in the
best interests of the students and the College as a whole. Perhaps this will put things in perspective. Imagine this
scenario: You receive a phone call from your parents, stating that you must finance your tuition next year. What’s your
reaction? Denial? Anger? Surprise? All of these would be accurate and legitimate sentiments. This analogy is similar to the reaction
of the Patterson Court Council and the Alcohol Policy Review Task Force when told we must begin covering the cost
of risk management. Faced with this predicament, members of the Task Force struggled to create a policy which solves this
problem as well as maintaining the positive character of the Davidson social scene.

Sincerely,
Jill Dyer, PCC Sgt-at-Arms
Bill Gullan, SGA President
Morgan Perry, Union Board President
Steve Shames, PCC President

An alternate plan

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices
are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or
commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

The pending Patterson Court policy revision concerning Court membership is bound to forever alter the Davidson College social scene. Ideas
like closed parties, bartenders, and wrist bracelets, while admittedly necessary for the Court’s survival, will nonetheless make this social outlet
less appealing to many students. Before implementing such a policy, we should make sure that it does not further fragment
the student body. Patterson Court Advisor Kurt Holmes recently predicted “that approximately 200 independents” will purchase “Court membership” (Davidsonian, 4/3/95).
When added to the roughly 900 current on-campus house affiliates, this figure would leave more than 25% of all Davidson
students completely isolated from the Court—period. They will not be permitted to watch a Court band or even find a
friend in a house—period. Granted, this separation would arise purely through individuals’...

See Rudell on page 9

Send a letter to the editors. Call -2148, or e-mail: Davidsonian@Davidson.edu
