4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1995

By MATTHEW EHRLICH
News Editor

Now is the spending season on college campuses around the country, as students purchase textbooks, notebooks, supplies for the room, etc. And at Davidson, many students purchase these items with the declining balance on their Cat cards. But not many students are aware of the $10 service charge associated with depositing money in their accounts. The first deposit of each academic year carries with it the $10 surcharge (upcharge).

According to Director of Auxiliary Services Richard Terry, the upcharge covers “labor and other administrative costs.” The Campus Network, the linking of the different services on campus through the Cat card, is a computer system which Davidson leases through an outside company. The Campus Network rents the phone lines used to carry the information on the card and the electronic readers which process the information at a cost of $30,000 a year. Additionally, says Terry, his department has to pay two full-time salaries.

To help offset the cost of operating the network, several revenue-generating steps are taken. First, there is the $10 upcharge for the first deposit of the year into a student’s account. Also, the other servers connected to the Cat card pay a fee to the Campus Network. The other services connected to the Cat card are the laundry, the Commons, the Outpost, the Union Café, Baker Underground, and the Bookstore. Each electronic reader (the machine they slide the card through) is rented to the server at the Campus Network’s cost of $1,000. Each server also returns one percent of the value of declining balance purchases to the Campus Network. According to Terry, the Commons pays “a very big cut” of the operational expenses of the network.

Despite gaining revenue from these sources, Terry says his office still does “not break even.” Students could avoid paying the service charge by putting money onto their cards in May intending to use it for the next year. But Terry says there is a trade-off involved in making such a move because, while a student avoids the charge, he ties up his money from May to September. If a large number of students began depositing money during one academic year in preparation for the next to avoid paying $10, Terry says that his office would be forced to look for other ways of meeting their operating costs.

Terry mentioned the policy at Duke, which requires all students to make a minimal deposit into their declining balance accounts. He also stressed that he is not threatening students with a change in policy but alerting them of the reality of the situation. Terry says that the college does not fund the Campus Network from the general pool of funds because it is unfair to charge non-users for a convenience used only by some students. Currently, there are 820 students with accounts holding five dollars or more.

Most students are unaware that the service charge even exists. Terry empathizes with students when they feel angry about the charge, but again says that declining balance is a trade-off. Students pay $10 not to have to carry cash around campus. If they feel the charge is too great compared to the convenience a declining balance account affords, they ought not have an account. Terry also says it is in the best interest of the College that students maintain accounts because it will mean that they will spend money on campus. “We’re trying to provide a system that is convenient and encourages students to spend money at campus sites,” says Terry. Terry views the Cat card as a “symbiotic relationship” in which both parties benefit. Terry is also working on...a plan to allow students to use their CatCards off campus. He stresses that the plan is still in a very formative stage. “If we do something, it will certainly be regarded as an experiment.” Terry mentioned Domino’s as being very interested in the idea. Terry states that logistical and legal questions need to be resolved before a plan can be implemented. “We will proceed carefully,” says Terry.

CSC records indicate over 1,200 people view the Davidson page each day, and that number is climbing. Most mail received has been from alumni excited about the presence of Davidson on the Internet. Gradually, though, the responses from prospective students and their parents are increasing, and that, according to Stockdale, is one of the primary goals of the program. While publicity and improved communication with alumni are two major benefits, Davidson students will profit from it as well. Senior and World Wide Web Server Consultant Chris Edwards foresees the Web page becoming the primary source for student information. He expects that a full sports schedule, a limited student and faculty directory, and other such references should soon be on the Web. Students can get the full Web experience in any computer lab or at any computer in Chambers, all of which have been adapted to use graphics-oriented Web browsers. From their dorms, students need only type “lynx http://www.davidson.edu” at a POLLUX> prompt to read the text associated with Davidson’s home page. Edwards, along with others who have worked to establish the link, is hopeful that more will take advantage of this opportunity to communicate with the outside world. “I’d like to see more departments get on the page,” Edwards says. “Most of the stuff on there now is catalog text.”

Sophomore Sally Cobey feels uneducated about the policy. “I really wish I could read a copy of the new policy,” she says. Senior Terri Gordon agrees: “I just don’t understand it.” Others don’t have a problem with it. Says Shames, “I heard one senior say that she would rather have a wristband on than have a stamp on her hand that won’t rub off for days.” Senior Lexy DeVane, however, is concerned with the prospect of the Court being viewed as a place for only people who drink. “I don’t doubt the wisdom of the PCC nor do I want to speak hastily, but one of the reasons I came to Davidson was because Patterson Court was marketed as being a very open environment. I really feel like this policy will alienate people from the Court and separate the student body.”

“We will be constantly exploring the possibilities for improving our risk management policy — the strengths and weaknesses,” says Shames. “Ideas include giving students a completely separate Patterson Court ID card, having a different background color for the picture, and finding other sources of funding (possibly even the student activities fee) but because of timing last spring these simply weren’t feasible options. We will, however, continue to improve.”

Write for News. Call The Kid (aka Matt) at -2148.

SGA
There will be election sign-ups for SGA in the Dean of Students’ Office through Thursday, September 7 at 5:00 p.m. Available positions include freshman and independent senators.

New Age HAIR DESIGNERS
A full service salon for men and women

Welcome back students! Come in for any of our many services: cuts, perms, hair-coloring, manicures, pedicures. Right now, Davidson students and faculty receive 10% off all retail items with a school I.D. We now carry a new line of retail products by Abba. Also select from a line of Paul Mitchell, Matrix, Logic, Nexxus, Sebastian, and Goldwell hairstyling products.

Southlake Shopping Center
Next to Harris Teeter
Cornelius, NC
892-3067