THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, ‘ok 11

Uncover the Gelatins in Our Closet
By Mary STEPHENS
Staff Writer

No, this is not a collection of little-known Betty Crocker Jell-o molds nor is it a display of Grateful Dead paraphernalia (rest in peace Jerry), but it is the latest exhibition in the Edward M. Smith Gallery at the Visual Arts Center. Subtitled “Photographs from the Permanent Collection,” Gelatins in the Closet brings together photographs developed using, primarily, the gelatin process.

Gelatin prints were first done during the late 19th century and were made from an emulsion of gelatin soaked in water, calcium bromide, and silver nitrate. The photographs in this collection are mostly from the mid to late 1900s, but the gelatin silver print gives them an older, almost antiquarian look.

Although all of the photographs are taken by different artists, they each have a similar emphasis on gesture. Even before one sets foot in the gallery itself, the oversized Johnny Weissmuller (a bust of a young man) by George Hurrell prepares the viewer for the montage of bodies and gestures to follow. Images of bodies alone or coupled with other images or objects run throughout the collection. The sense that gesture or poise can evoke a particular emotion seems to link each of the photos. Few of the shots represent bodies in their entirety, but give the viewer a glimpse of a face behind a veil, a profile obscured, or a torso without the extended legs or head.

Some of the most moving photographs in the collection involve images where the artist has deliberately distorted the view by manipulation of the angle. In two of these, The Unfortunate Man Could Not Touch the One He Loved by Duane Michals and Nude on a Beach by Bill Brandt blur almost indecipherably the camera’s angle. This shift in perspective coupled with the antiqued, gelatin process creates a striking effect.

Only three of the 20 photographs in the exhibit use color film and only one of the pictures contains no human figures. Don’t miss this exhibition. These photographs stay with you, especially Les Beants du Nord by Doisneau and Parking Lot, Volendam, Holland by Louis Stettner, but they won’t stay up forever. Go soon.

Two Friends at Home, NYC 1965 by Diane Arbus is one of the photos currently on display.

By Curisty Sur
Staff Writer

I risk my reputation in discussing Brown Mountain Lights, but since it bears particular significance in this season of spooks and spirits, I am going to tell you an unexaggerated story about those mysterious lights up in the hills.

ON THE ROAD AGAIN

Working in Banner Elk, N.C. one summer, I heard many folk tales, as one often does when immersed in camp culture for three months. I was not surprised, nor did I give it much thought, when stories about the mysterious Brown Mountain Lights crept in around the campfire. The Brown Mountain Lights remained a figment of some other counselor’s imagination until that night I ascended to Wiseman’s View.

Located about 15 miles northwest of Morganton, Brown Mountain seems like any other mountain on the horizon during the day. There is...Nothing man-made on the mountain—no buildings, towers, nor paved roads. Trees upon more trees encompass the whole of its terrain. Bright lights of a big city? Ghostly lights of a mountain spook travelers. But take a look at night, and you will swear it is a different mountain. When I first crept along that windy (and quite uneven) dirt road through the Pisgah Forest, I had little idea what to expect. We hiked the short distance to the overlook, and I was not very surprised. We stood on the opposite slope of the Linville Gorge looking out on a skyline which could be any major city at night. Headlights moved on the blanketed highways, radio towers blinked warning lights to the aircraft arriving and departing, and the lighted outline of buildings composed a city brimming with nightlife. The lights moved, twinkled, and flashed in their brilliant colors of red, green, blue, and white, calling attention to the objects they abstractly represent; and yet, there were no cars moving, no towers signaling the imaginary airplanes, and no city in which to arrive. What appeared to be buildings were mere shadows; what are those lights?

I was not the first person to query into the mysterious lights of Brown Mountain. Many years back, National Geographic did an investigation as to the cause. The experiment involved observers placed strategically on the mountain, with other observers maintaining radio contact while watching the lights from surrounding vantage points. Those watching the lights would direct the scientists on the mountain to the location where the lights were appearing, but no conclusions were ever drawn. Nothing was visible to the observers on the mountain, and yet the whole mountain shimmered in these lights. Of course, you will never believe until you see it for yourself. I can’t offer an explanation, but I can give you directions. Take I-40 West to N.C. 181 North. When you hit Secondary Road 183, take a left and you will arrive in Linville Falls. Anyone in this town should be able to give you specific directions to Wiseman’s View from there.

I have been fortunate in that the lights were in full force both times I visited, once in July and once in October. But sometimes they last only a few seconds and sometimes thirty minutes. People see different lights, and in every type of weather, all seasons. If you watch long enough, you will see them. One final note: if you are traveling alone, you might want to reconsider—even a duo might not be enough, especially if you spook easily. So enjoy yourself, and if you see any lights, let me know!

Help Wanted
Shoney's - Cornelius
Now accepting applications. Servers, Hosts, Hostesses, Washers, Cooks needed. Apply on location or call 892-9700.

Spring Break Early Specials!
Bahamas Party Cruise 7 Days $279! 15 Meals & 6 Parties! Cancun & Jamaica From $359! Panama City Room With Kitchen $119! Key West! Daytona! Cocoa Beach! Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/15! Hurry! 1-800-678-6386.