THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1995 13

Crusading to Make Davidson A Funnier Place
“Right Here, Right Now” asks for reader input

By JORDAN DEBREE & NICK PAUL
Staff Writers

Good evening. A few weeks ago you may have stumbled across a peculiar little interview titled “The Thrilla From Manila.” This was no chance accident. We, Nick Paul and Jordan deBree, of sound mind and body, want to make a statement. We want the world to know that Davidson College isn’t just about books and studying. We don’t just think about derivatives, complex biological organisms, the literary significance of War and Peace, or the strategical value of Borneo to American interests. We are fascinated by other things too, and of course, we have certain questions.

This column is all about these questions: what do students really think of dorm bathrooms? What kind of social life do our librarians have? How do we characterize the behavior of imbibing students crammed around a beer keg? Can people with no arms and legs learn tae kwon do? (You wouldn’t believe the answer to that question.)

While you may not have guessed from reading it, our last article was supposed to be funny. If you did not notice this, please go back and read it again. If you still do not notice this, it’s time to look into the therapeutic value of nitrous oxide. “Right Here, Right Now” is all about what makes you laugh. Actually, it’s about what makes us laugh, which may encompass far more areas than is traditionally recognized as normal or communally shared. Nevertheless, we are here for you. We viciously funny, devastatingly handsome, and otherwise impeccably dressed gentlemen, are here to provide you, the student body, with a hearty chuckle.

We are two freshmen who want nothing more than to provide a column in the newspaper that can act as a humor replacement for those who are Farsidically challenged, Calvin Hobbesically impaired, or otherwise cartoon illiterate. We also want to be a sort of interactive column. So if you want your faithful reporters to address a certain issue, just give us a ring at either 6364 or 6358. That is not to say you can’t give us a ring for no reason at all. Obviously, we’d love communication with our readers. Leave rude messages. Tape recordings are great. Give us your name and number and we’ll try to send you some terribly gross response.

Possible topics in later columns include: Bathroom Surveys, Movie Review of Desperado, and The Political and Economic Implications of World Bank Loans to Third World Countries. (That first idea is just a joke.) Until next time, we wish you all well. Please know that we’re thinking of all of you.

Harris Teeter presents...
THE CAROLINA RENAISSANCE FESTIVAL
OPENS THIS WEEKEND!
September 30 thru November 12
Saturdays & Sundays 10 a.m.to 5:30 p.m. * No pets, please. Eat, Drink, at Carolina’s European Marketfaire! 
* CHEER Jousting Knights on Thundering Steeds.
* FEAST like a King with food & drink.
* SHOP for Unique Handcrafted Wares.
* ENJOY Games for Youngsters of All Ages.
* APPLAUD Entertainment in a Theatrical Village.
& Be Merrie

SAVE on Discount Tickets at:
Harris Teeter: Adult $9.95, Child (5-12) $3.95. (Under 5 always Free)
At the Gate: Adult $10.95, Child $4.95.

Charlotte: SNS “Wahu” 72e— tle CocsarsPiexa @ #1 We Now Deliver at Caerdty Mace

WILDCAT WEEKEND!
Save $10.95 when you purchase 1 adult admission ticket and receive a 2nd for FREE when you show your cat card at the festival ticket gate office. Limited one ticket per card. Not valid with any other offer.

Informational Meeting with Boston University tells about their ON THE SCENE

Jumpin’ Java Café starts the week off right 8 p.m.-midnight at the Outpost.
Tuesday Coffee House sells fresh doughnuts and coffee 8:30 a.m.-11 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Dr. Martha Montello, of Harvard University Medical School, lectures on “Making a Better Doctor: Literacy Narratives in Medical Education” 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.
Women’s Issues Study Break meets 7:30 p.m.-10:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room.
Jumpin’ Java Café brews it again 8 p.m.-midnight at the Outpost.
Self-Esteem Rally encourages students to “trash something that makes you feel angry about the way Body Images are portrayed” 9 p.m.-10 p.m. at Richardson Plaza.
Twenty-One-Year-Old Night goes down 10:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Wednesday
Bluegrass Experience plays 5:00 p.m.-7:30 p.m. at the Commons.
Women’s Issues Study Break, Film, and Discussion shows Dying to be Thin and discusses it 9 p.m.-midnight in the Morrison Room.
Clerks runs 9:30 p.m.-11:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Thursday
Job Fair advertises graduate and professional schools 9 a.m.-3 p.m. in the Morrison Room and Union Lobby.
Informational Meeting with Boston University tells about their study abroad programs 9:30 a.m.-10:30 a.m. in the Union Conference Room.
CROP Lunch promotes awareness of the simple diet 11 a.m.-2 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Beaver College Informational Meeting tells about their Center for Education Abroad 11 a.m.-12 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.
SGA Town Meeting invites everyone to attend 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. in Perkins Auditorium.
Forum on Eating Disorders held 8 p.m.-9:25 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Jumpin’ Java Café hosts the Surreal McCoys from 9:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. at the Union Outpost.

Friday
Clerks plays 8 p.m.-10 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Saturday
International Festival expands our cultural horizons 11 a.m.-2 p.m. in the Union.
Fall Fest Women’s Weekend presents skits about the eating houses to the freshwomen 1:30 p.m.-3 p.m. in Johnston Gym.
Animal House shows 7 p.m.-9 p.m. in the 900 Room. Free pizza too.
Otis Day and the Knights shout 10 p.m.-midnight in Johnston Gym.

Sunday
Jumpin’ Java Café ends the week right 8 p.m.-midnight at the Outpost.

All Week
Judith O’Rourke Exhibition is on display in the Union Lobby.

WRITE FOR THE DAVIDSONIAN. CALL MART, JEFF, JOHN, OR MATT. -2148.