Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Davidsonian

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXVI MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 1995 NUMBER 14

I have a dream

Last Monday, the Davidson community celebrated Martin Luther King's birthday. In a worship service at 7:30 in Love Auditorium, Nelson
Johnson, president of the Poor People's Association in Greensboro, was the guest speaker. The service also featured a performance by
the Davidson College Gospel Choir.

SELF SELECTION '95

[Photo by Rob Kosicki]

Faculty approves EPC proposal for double majors

By Beth Lindsey

Although Davidson has not allowed students to have double majors in the past, the Davidson College faculty approved a recommendation
of the Educational Policy Committee on December 6, 1994, allowing students to major simultaneously in two different departments. Any student
who fulfills all requirements may double major, regardless of year. The idea for instituting the...

Dean of Students encourages responsibility in court tradition

By Matthew Eirich

This year’s Self-Selection night blended the old with the new. With new Dean of Students Tom Shandley, an intensified emphasis
was placed on safety. Also, freshwomen were not able to cluster in groups of four as they had in previous
years. The old traditions of copious amounts of champagne, a night of huge parties, and, of course, the fraternity pledges’
three-house sprint still thrived.

Policy rumors; safety first

The blend of old and new created uncertainty on the court. Foremost among these uncertainties was how Dean Shandley would
treat self-selection night. It had been rumored that Shandley’s office was going to take steps to curtail the traditional Court
activities, aerobic and otherwise. Those rumors about Shandley’s office proved false.

Shandley was most concerned with students’ safety on Friday night rather than eliminating traditional activities. But, Shandley said, “If the
traditional activity sends students to the hospital, I want to eliminate, not curtail it.” Patterson Court Advisor Kurt Holmes was
also concerned with students’ safety on Friday night. He assigned nine police officers, one to each house, to “prevent big
problems.” Those numbers contrast with an event like Homecoming, where seven officers are assigned and rotate among the houses.

Shandley said the best way to make Self-Selection night safer was to create an “attitude change” among students. To affect
this attitude change, Shandley spoke with each of the chapter presidents and eating house presidents. In his discussions with the
presidents, he stressed, “It’s not an...

See Select continued on page 5

Student bone marrow donor to meet recipient

By Russ Tarver

Senior Megan Snyder never expected to save a life when she had her bone marrow typed during her freshman year.
A year later she became a donor. This week she will meet the recipient, a 46-year-old father from New Jersey.
“I didn’t know much about it when I had my marrow typed. I didn’t really know what it meant,” says
Snyder.

inside THIS WEEK

First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC 28036

Snyder and Richard Foucey, a financial consultant with two sons,...

---

This cleaned text maintains the original structure, punctuation, and meaning of the provided OCR text.have corresponded regularly since the operation
but have never actually met. “We wrote letters to each other for a year.” In November of 1992, Snyder received
a message that her marrow had a match. After careful consideration, she consented to the transplant which took place in
April of the next year. “The Red Cross puts no pressure on you, even after a match. If anything, they
try to talk you out of it. The recipient doesn’t even know you exist,” says Snyder. “I feel like this
was the best thing I’ve ever done in my life.” She explains that the procedure was relatively easy. “They withdrew
the marrow from my pelvic bone while I was under anesthesia. It wasn’t that painful.” Ten days later she was
playing in a lacrosse tournament.

The Project Life committee has invited Foucey to speak at 7:00 p.m. on Thursday. Those interested in having their marrow
typed can attend Project Life’s annual bone marrow drive on February 14, in the College Union.

The double major option originated when a faculty member on the EPC brought the idea to the attention of the
entire committee. The committee discussed it and researched the policies of other colleges comparable to Davidson. The 18 “peer colleges”
surveyed, schools such as Colgate, Furman, Oberlin, Swarthmore, and Washington & Lee, all permit double majors.

See Major continued on page 5

Dean Rusk, 1909-1994: Memories of a distinguished graduate
By David Shrinto

Davidson College lost a most distinguished graduate, scholar, statesman, and professor, when Dean Rusk died at the age of 85
in his home in Athens, Georgia. Despite the fullness of his life, many will remember Dean Rusk only as the
vilified Secretary of State who engineered the United States’ Vietnam policy under Presidents Kennedy and Johnson in the 1960s. A
more complete examination of his life reveals personal qualities that allowed Dean Rusk to make important contributions to the world
— and to Davidson.

The early years
Born in poverty in Cherokee County, Georgia, Dean Rusk entered Davidson in 1927. Four years later, he had graduated Phi
Beta Kappa and had earned a Rhodes scholarship to study at Oxford. At Davidson, Rusk valued the college’s emphasis on
moral and spiritual virtues and believed that “Davidson clearly sought to prepare its young men for lives of service.” Rusk
began his life of service as a political science instructor at Mills College in California. Then, in the 1940s and
‘50s, he rose to prominent levels in the State Department. In 1952 he accepted the presidency of the Rockefeller Foundation.
After his election in 1960, President John F. Kennedy

See Rusk continued on page 4

Sororities? Students and the administration discuss the possibility of replacing eating houses with national Greek organizations.
NEWS 2

Lee at the BSC
Ike Bailey responds to Alan Staggers' piece about the Nation of Islam
OPINIONS 9

Granola for Christmas?
Davidson Outdoors braves the Rio Grande.
ARTS & LIVING 10

Hoop Dreams
Men's team not too far off the track they were on last year at this time.
SPORTS 14
