THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING

Les Moore: More or Less Blues Musician Plays Outpost

By JAMES BERRY
Staff writer

Last Saturday, Davidson’s weary travelers found refuge from the cold and windy weather inside the Union Outpost where they were greeted by free tacos and the sweet sound of the blues. As a part of Midwinters weekend, the College Union presented a three-piece outfit for the Outpost’s customers. The lead vocalist, Les Moore, played rhythm guitar on his acoustic, and behind him sat Glenn Kawamoto on fretless bass and Bobby Donaldson on lead guitar.

The show consisted almost exclusively of covers from various artists such as Eric Clapton (the band’s rendition of "Layla" came close to Clapton’s unplugged version), Rod Stewart, Dire Straits, and Chuck Berry. Countless other blues classics made the set list as well. The relationship between the three musicians was obvious from their on-stage personalities and was confirmed when I had a chance to sit down and speak with them. It turns out that the three men don’t work together much at all but have performed on and off as a group for a few years. When they’re not performing as an anonymous trio, they play in separate bands, work on independent projects, or serve as session musicians in the studio. Glenn Kawamoto and Bobby Donaldson work in the Austin and New Orleans areas respectively. Only Les Moore is based in Charlotte and, after a little prodding from the others, he offered some information about his work.

One of his upcoming projects is to host an open stage show at the Double Door (a blues club in Charlotte) on February 13. He’ll set up his own equipment and instruments and offer the stage to various local artists with the intent of showcasing some new music. Also, every Tuesday he appears at the Dilworth Brewery and every Wednesday at the Providence Road Sundries as a part of the acoustic open stages that the two clubs sponsor. After Saturday’s afternoon show (February 4), the three had plans to play at the Midtown Sundries that evening along with a drummer to complete their ensemble. As a close to our talk, they wanted to thank the Union for the tacos.

Music of Midwinters: Cravin’ Melon and Curnutte & Maher

By DAVE WILLIARD
Staff writer

Amidst a hailstorm of controversy, Nashville boys Curnutte and Maher brought their incendiary set list all the way across I-40 for a unique opening act at Friday’s Union Midwinters concert. Steve Curnutte, resident Billy Ray Cyrus imitator, felt the weight of the 900 Room’s typical audience nonchalance hit him like a chunk of rancid cheese. As the pre-law majors stared blankly, Curnutte went through his repertoire of songs about Buddha bellies and quadrupeds. The acoustic duo then moved on to a set of...

Mess from page 10

...the direct insults if they wanted to continue the show. Before the second act began, Perry apologized to the audience on behalf of the Union and thanked us for persevering. As the second act began, there was an air of discomfort about the room. No one wanted to have to stop the show, but no one wanted to sit through another hour of tasteless jokes and embarrassment. The tension began to ease as the act proceeded, thanks to the sportsmanship of the students who had been asked to participate in the play. The inappropriate insults were at a minimum, and the audience’s response was genuine. When...the play closed, I felt as if I had just been through something I shouldn’t have gotten myself into in the first place. At least, however, we had some reason to clap at the end. According to Perry, “As usual, Davidson students came through and added their own personality and an element of class” that kept the evening from being a complete failure.

politically incorrect chick songs which hinted at tendencies toward Oedipal complexes and food fetishes. Maher and Curnutte both went to Wake Forest; Curnutte graduated, but Maher got too many community service hours racked up against him to make it all four years. The time he urinated in a Burger King bag in his dorm was the final straw, according to the Wake Forest Dean of Students’ office.

Cravin’ Melon pounced the stage after Curnutte and Maher left with a throng of women in tow. The Melons sounded like a mixture of, well, Craven Dogs and Blind Melon — hence the name (Blind Dogs didn’t seem to ring quite true). Perhaps they are a little low on Vitamin C? These guys were straight ahead power guitarists to the core. I have never heard a more kickin’ version of a Steve Miller song! Still, it was a bit disturbing to see one of the band members in his early thirties, wearing hiking boots and a plaid shirt tied around his waist. He just looked too much like a freshman trying to get a PiKA bid. In the immortal words of my next door neighbor John: “Hey! Both bands sang all the words in the right order!”

Liz Wellford of poetry, The Tao Comes to Davidson

Need an Original Valentine's Day Gift? HOW ABOUT A MASSAGE AT THE DUCHESS? Great for:
- Stress Relief
- Relaxing
- Curing Fatigue

Special Offer: $20.00 per 1/2 hour with Davidson Student I.D. Located at the Chair Factory, 20700 N. Main St. Call Jerry at 892-8577 for more information.

HELP WANTED!! Men/Women earn up to $480 weekly assembling circuit boards/electronic components at home. Experience unnecessary, will train. Immediate openings in your local area. Call 1-602-680-4647. Ext.102c

GRACE UNDER PRESSURE: College Relations

James Swisher, Davidson’s Pianist-in-Residence, performed in Hodson Hall on Monday night. The program featured pieces in a variety of musical styles, including etudes by Chopin, preludes by Debussy, and sonatas by Scarlatti.

Learn from page 10

college students. For example, everyone knows that neo-Nazis hate blacks; a more important point to get across is that many apparently “normal,” mentally healthy students still harbor racist feelings. This movie barely sheds light on the subtle, everyday racial tensions that go on at almost every college or university in the nation. Extreme situations, such as the violence in this movie, may be exciting to watch, but they fail to relate the issues at hand so that the spectators can identify with the situation in their own lives. This movie does reveal some important problems and themes, but it fails to relate its message personally to the audience members. These issues must be understood not only in the minds, but also in the hearts of the people watching.

Sculptured Nails
French Manicures
Pedicures
Tanning Booth

NAIL BOUTIQUE

TANNING SPECIAL: 10 visits for $33.00

CONNIE AND GINA: Full Set of Nails for only $40.00 (thru February)

Located at The Chair Factory 20700 N. Main St., Cornelius (704) 892-7030