THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1995

SGA examines the ins and outs of the Student Health Center.

University will pay jobless grads

ROCHESTER, NY—It’s an annual rite of spring: college seniors lie awake at night and fret they’ll graduate with a huge debt, 100 resumes out, no job in sight, and Mom and Dad as their new landlords. If only college came with some sort of guarantee, say many wistful college students. Now at least one does. Beginning next year, entering students at St. John Fisher College can qualify for a program that will pay students $417 per month, up to $5000, if they aren’t offered a job that requires a college degree within six months of their graduation. But the new program, dubbed the Fisher Commitment, is hardly a license to lie on the sofa and take it easy. Before students qualify for the payout, they must meet a strict set of guidelines.

Astronauts taste-test Coke in space

BOULDER, CO—Coke-guzzling astronauts on this month’s space shuttle Discovery mission won’t be drinking the soft drink to quench their thirsts or give themselves a caffeine boost. Instead, astronauts will be drinking Coke and Diet Coke to test taste perceptions in space, said Louis Stodieck, Associate Director of the University of Colorado’s BioServe Space Technologies Center. University of Colorado researchers have developed a new device known as the Fluids Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus, which will allow astronauts to drink the carbonated soft drink during the flight.

Class of '95: Ideas for the Senior Class Gift may be submitted before spring break.

COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE FOR THE SUMMER!

Outstanding brother/sister sports camps on largest New England lake seek skilled counselors for land/water sports, and arts. TRANSPORTATION PAID. INTERVIEWS AVAILABLE. Call to schedule: WINAUKEE (Boys) 800-487-9157; ROBINDEL (Girls) 800-325-3396

Computerized GRE: will controversy Get Really Extreme?

By Jay JENNINGS
Staff writer

An academic controversy is brewing about the GRE test. The Educational Testing Service is attempting to phase out the paper-and-pencil GRE in favor of the newer computerized GRE. This change has caused many problems for students attempting to take the GRE for graduate school next fall. The issue of computerized testing came up as early as November 1993, when The Princeton Review discovered some flaws in the computerized version that could allow for cheating. The Princeton Review went to court to try to make the security flaws public to “level the playing field for all students,” according to John Katzman, President of The Princeton Review. Its legal action was blocked and nothing occurred until December 1994. On December 16, the Kaplan Educational Centers exposed the flaws in the test by getting test-takers to memorize the test and reproduce it. ETS then filed a lawsuit against Kaplan for exposing the flaws. Publicist for The Princeton Review Jeanne Krier said that the ETS has a monopoly on this type of testing. The Princeton Review claims it is trying to protect the rights of students which are being infringed upon. Director of Research Development Andy Lutz says,“While ETS is turning the clock ahead regarding technology, they are turning the clock back on the rights of students.” He believes that the computerized GREs represent “technology not ready for prime time.” Krier said that the computerized tests could discriminate against people who do not have access to a computer to practice. The computerized test-taking process is significantly different from the usual method, and taking the computerized test without computer experience could be disastrous. This exposure has forced ETS to change its testing process. ETS immediately canceled one week of the computerized testing and reduced the number of these tests from one a week to one a month. The computerized GRE is offered at 75% fewer locations than the paper-and-pencil GRE, which means that many students have been prevented from taking the computerized tests. The ETS has been scaling down the number of paper-and-pencil GREs in a three-year process to change to the computerized version. In two years all tests will be computerized. Director of Career Services Carol Jordan believes this change is a “positive one.” She points out that the students receive their scores immediately after finishing the test, which gets them to schools faster. Jordan also mentioned that students can cancel tests easier if they are unready. Students seem to have a very different opinion supporting The Princeton Review’s position. One strike against the computerized version is that it costs $96, as opposed to $56. Senior Steve Krause took the computerized GRE and said another problem was the structuring of the test. Krause “felt that it was more difficult because you could not skip questions,” which is different from the practice tests that he took. Also, because he could not skip questions, he answered only 28 questions on the verbal section, which he did not feel accurately represented his skills. The computerized GRE is an adaptive test, meaning it changes according to the test-taker’s answers. Most students are not prepared to take these types of tests after taking paper-and-pencil tests for every other standardized test. Senior Matt Melton believed that the computerized test was difficult because one cannot make any marks on the reading passages which appear on the computer screen. He feels that this is a very important study aid that students are now unable to use. Students can take the paper-and-pencil GRE in April, but the scores will not be sent to graduate schools in time for the fall of 1995.

Monday, February 13
Theft: headlight covers valued at $90.00 were removed from a car in the Baker parking lot during Davidson men’s basketball game. Police have no suspects.

Wednesday, March 15
9 a.m. to 4 p.m.
The campus police will hold a silent auction of bicycles in Johnston Gym; it is open to anyone. Some of these bikes in police possession are registered to students whom the police have been unable to contact.

CHILE RISTRAS
Starting March 1st... 11:30 to 2 p.m.
Exit 28 into Cornelius. Liverpool Parkway across from Movies at the Lake.
Dining Room open for lunch.
DRIVE THRU WINDOW NOW OPEN FOR LUNCH. 11:30-4pm
CALL IN YOUR ORDER: 896-9980