THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1995

Britton “Two Tone” Taylor

Your belly and you
-The story of one man and his gut-

The current situation here at Davidson certainly is disheartening. I can think of about as many positive things to say about this place as I can do pull-ups. But if there is one thing that this school has a surplus of, it’s fat. You can’t eat anywhere on campus without gaining weight, increasing your risk of heart disease, or effectively blocking all of your arteries. This, however, is not necessarily a bad thing, for the accumulation of fat leads to many wondrous occurrences. More important than all is the emergence of belly. Belly can do many unbelievable things. His presence can and will improve your life and the lives of those around you. Some people, though, don’t necessarily know how to use belly to the best of their ability, so here are some tips to make your world a better place. As you will soon see, the benefits of belly are infinite.

1) Warmth. Unbeknownst to many, belly provides a more than adequate supply of heat. When you are cold, just place your hands under your shirt and hold on to your stomach. The rewards are plenty. Not only does belly keep your hands warm, he also installs a great sense of well-being for you can mock those frigid others who are not so blessed with such a gut. Since it’s winter I can’t begin to express how much this feature comes in handy. A friend of mine told me that those who embark on wilderness trips to the arctic rely on their bellies for warmth and comfort. A cold camper places his hands on belly or on a friend’s. In a life or death situation, belly could in fact turn out to be a life saver.

2) Self-Defense. I have never been in a real fight, but if I was I would surely win. I shall not hesitate to tell you why. In most manly fights, guys go for shots at the midsection. Folks with belly are therefore gifted. Belly can do many unbelievable things. His presence can and will improve your life and the lives of those around you. As you will soon see, the benefits of belly are infinite. Compare and Contrast. One of the best things to do with belly is to show him to your friends. They, in turn, will show you their belly, and laughter will inevitably follow. This also could become a competition—more and more will flock to flaunt their own belly, thinking theirs is the best. I urge you to hold your own contests. Have a panel of skinny people judge the bellies of others. A soft, round belly obviously earns more points than a coarse, flat belly.

3) The Raisin Game. This one was my dad’s favorite and rightfully so. To play this game all you need are raisins and belly. But before I tell you the rules of the game let me first inform you of its illustrious history. It all started one Saturday afternoon after I had received a haircut from my mother. I sat on the couch, half-naked, eating raisins and watching college football with my father. At one point of sure genius, I began to cram the wrinkled prunes into my belly-button. One after another, they slowly began to disappear. My dad thought this was hilarious, and soon the whole family was in on the fun. Words can’t express the horror on their faces when I flexed what muscles I had, and twenty-some-odd raisins shot from the depths of belly. From then on it became a Saturday afternoon tradition to see how many raisins I could jam into belly. Try this one with your friends. Hold a competition.

4) Humor. All of a sudden I have become the center of all comedic situations at my fraternity. Why you may ask? It’s obviously because of belly. When there is belly, there is humor. When there is fat, there is frat. At house meetings, all jokes seem to somehow end up with belly. Because of him, my popularity has boosted enormously. This apparently comes with no effort on my part; all I have to do is show up with belly, and the laughter ensues.

5) Women. For some strange reason girls have an attraction to belly. I really don’t know why this is, but I am not going to complain.

6) Storage. The bigger belly is, the more your belly can hold. This means that each day you can eat progressively more and more. This allows for the maturity of a bigger and bigger belly as time goes on. Belly can do many unbelievable things. His presence can and will improve your life and the lives of those around you. As you will soon see, the benefits of belly are infinite.

7) A friend. In times of sitting, ache, and depression, there is one person who you can tell all of your deepest, darkest secrets—it’s belly. He will never tell anybody. Also, if you feel the need to exercise, take belly for a walk. He doesn’t need a leash and he most certainly never runs away. Other people can also make friends with belly. Doug Cutting seems to have a strange attraction to mine. I think he likes belly more than he likes me.

8) Music. Yeah, The Edge is a terrible music station, but belly plays all your favorite hits. Whether it be rock, jazz, or classical you enjoy, belly can do it all. Dan Guill once played an entire symphony on my belly, much to the amazement of others in attendance.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

belly with hands, sticks, bricks, or most anything else. Play along to the radio or compose your own tune. When you have reached this stage, you are ready to sing along with belly.

10) The Truffle Shuffle. This is my all-time favorite. Upon request, put your shirt above your head and wiggle belly to and fro. Then convulse, thus producing a rippling effect. Your audience will surely love this one to death. Once when I was attempting to impress others with the “shuffle,” some parents stumbled upon the show. They did not know me and promptly asked their son who the “little round-boy” was. I hid in shame, but deep inside belly was laughing.

El Jefe eta Ife

Well, I’m done with my trend of positivity and back to my usual string of complaints. Actually, this article is more of a constructive criticism, an observation that may change the fabric of Davidson extracurricular life forever. Basically, I’ve noticed a trend of do-nothing-nerdiness expanding here on campus. I won’t call it apathy, just more of a selfish laziness. Students here continually use schoolwork or studying as an excuse to avoid participating in anything non-academic or anything that doesn’t involve a mouse and keypad. How many times have you asked a favor of someone only to have them refuse, saying “I’ve got a paper to do, sorry”? I understand that schoolwork comes first around here, but Davidson students usually take things too far. More than once I have been snubbed by people that have a project due... in a week. Friends have refused to play in IMAC games because of an impending assignment due a week from tomorrow. Now I realize these infractions in social etiquette may occur because no one likes me, but the lack of motivation to do anything extracurricular extends far beyond my lazy friends (or, at least the people that let me hang out with them).

Last Saturday we had a club soccer game right here on the historic Davidson campus. It was a barn burner against the dynamic dozen from Central Piedmont Community College. There was scoring, fighting, slick moves, controversy, even some fans—but no ref. Actually, that’s not true. We did finally find a ref who did a great job considering he had never before officiated a soccer game. It would be easy for me to blame our captain, Tabby the Rat, for being slack and not finding an official, but I happen to know he called several people. I also know that there are dozens of varsity and former club players well qualified to ref the game who preferred to sit home and pad their backsides in front of the television. Of course, they wouldn’t admit that. No, never, they probably give the same, jaded excuse of “I’ve got a project to do” all the while thinking to themselves “Ha, ha! Fools! I’m actually going to log in at least three more hours of Sega before dinner. After I’ve destroyed the final villain in Doom, then I'll trot over to the library and play with e-mail for an hour and a half.” Come on people. Stop staring at the Home Shopping Network all day waiting for the Star Trek box set, and do something interesting.

If you like sports, stop playing armchair quarterback all day and jog over to Baker for some exercise. For the socially inclined, we have a place called Patterson Court where a variety of Greek organizations and women’s eating houses await. If the den of sin that Patterson Court may represent to some scares you, head over to the Union for some of their special events. Y’all should find it fairly easily, it’s placed more or less in between the library and the computer center. Or join a club. I’m not even going to mention how much help we need at The Davidsonian. Since it’s almost December and there’s no yearbook in sight, I’m sure the crew at Quips and Cranks could use a helping hand. Or try the athletic arena. I’ve had a very rewarding experience the last two years as a flickerball coach. My team this year, Kool and the Gang, was by far the finest female flickerball squad ever assembled which is saying a lot because the team I coached last year was also the finest female flickerball squad ever assembled. But much like Pat Riley, I felt I needed a new challenge, and so I moved on. Neither team actually won the championship because of some technicalities I won’t get into, but the season was still fun. This year’s team admires me so much that they actually named themselves after me (me being the Kool and them being the Gang). Plus, I got a free T-shirt both years. You just can’t get that from surfing the ‘net all day.

Basically, what I’m saying is “DEVELOP A PERSONALITY.” There is more to life than differential equations and CD-ROM. Don’t hide behind the guise of the overworked student, get off your butt and participate in life. The people that do participate around here seem to do everything. It’s sort of an oligarchy of extracurricular juggernauts. When President Kuykendall needs advice, who do you think he calls? Dean Shandley, Dean Williams? No, I tell you, he rings up El Jefe—Davidsonian god, club soccer extraordinaire, flickerball guru, legend. Do you think the leaders of our society look for guidance on the quiet floor of E.H. Little? Heck no, they want people who know the flavor of life, people who can do more than quote from every episode of Dr. Who ever filmed. So stop complaining about homework and start making an impact. Join a team, start a club, do some service, write an Opinions article for God’s sake. I don’t care what you do, but do something.