THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1995: 9

Mayonnaise and tailgate parties

Have you ever wondered why mayonnaise makers (Kraft and the like) haven’t worked on a way to make their product
easier to use? Mustard has the squeeze bottle, as does ketchup, so there’s one less knife you need to pull
out of the drawer. But mayo, now there’s a challenge—it’s unappealing to some without oozing through the lid. How ‘bout
this for an idea: you know how rubber cement has the brush attached to the inside of the lid? Well,
Kraft could attach a little spatula/knife thing to their lid. Maybe the glue dudes have a copyright on something like
that, but there are always loopholes. Just a thought.

Now for a completely random change of topic. Last week (or maybe last month—senior year is flying by!) the new
guy in charge of promotions at football, basketball, and soccer games came around to all the houses on Patterson Court
and asked for suggestions to get more students involved at varsity sports, or at least attend. I think the number
one way to get the majority of us out there is to have tailgate parties.

Casey Hawthorne

Casey’s Beer Guide

Beer. What a divine creation. Beers are like people; some are tall, some are skinny, some are fat, some are
just shaped funny, some are cold and tasteless, others are full-bodied and put you in a good mood. Some beers
look chic by your side and say, “this guy’s a classy stud.” Some are cheap and ugly and simply say
“loser.” You can take a beer on a picnic, or to the movies, or even to class if you’re sneaky.
Beer is always there for you, a true friend.

Now that we understand the personality of beer, let me explain another fundamental truth. Beer is a must in the
dating sphere. If things are going well on your date, beer just adds spice. If things take a turn for
the worse, well, drink up. With this in mind, I think I'll share some of my extensive beer knowledge with
you in Casey’s mini guide to beer (the full work is of epic proportions and encompasses several volumes).

1.) The Schlitz B-24. This American classic comes in attractive packaging and bears the classic brown can design. Also, rumor
has it that the B-24 does wonders for your hair if you shampoo with it. Sounds strange, but I did
hear that from a very reliable source.

2.) Strohs. By far the cheapest beer you can buy in bottles. You can never say too much about bottled
beer. So I won’t.

3.) Coors Original. This is an obvious choice, a great beer that has been forgotten in this era of yuppies,
e-mail, and the internet. It has a full, pure flavor, yet it doesn’t crowd one’s stomach. Quite an underrated gem.

4.) Dos XX. You know, a lot of beers vary in their taste and aftertaste, but Dos XX provides a
smooth, consistent flavor all the way through. Those Mexicans know what they’re doing.

5.) Amstel Light. Terrific date beer. First of all, it’s foreign, so if your date doesn’t know much about beer
he/she will be impressed with your good taste and grasp of continental culture. Also, it’s a light beer, so weight
watchers love this one.

6.) Beast Light. Known as Milwaukee’s Best Light to amateurs, this product of the Midwest is definitely the best chugging
beer. It’s also the official beer of every keg party on campus because it’s cheap, appeals to a broad spectrum
of people, and you can tell dumb freshmen that it is Becks or Heineken.

7.) Bull Ice. This one reaches on a technicality because it’s actually malt liquor. However, the Bull is in a
class of its own. It has the drinkability of a pilsner with the punch of street wine. Also, if you
hold two bottles together they make a funky design of a Bull’s head. Now available in the convenient wide mouth.

That’s it folks. Study this carefully, cut the article out, keep it by your pillow, live by it. You can
never know beer too well.How fun would that be if the parking area between Jackson Court and the football field
was roped off for tailgating, cooking out, drinking beer, soda, what have you. Maybe start up an hour or two
before the game, then all mosey over to watch our team. It would also be cool if each week either
the coach or a player of each team would write an article for the Davidsonian. I’m from Houston, TX and
love all the sports teams there. Sure, I naturally root for my hometown team, but I also root for my
hometown players. I go to a game to watch Hakeem or Bagwell because I feel like I know them through
TV interviews and newspaper articles. Sure this is a small school, and it probably says more about my social skills
than anything else, but I know very few varsity athletes. I do know that the year Chris Shields played varsity
basketball (he was my hall counselor), attendance and rowdiness increased (not to mention the team’s success)—just because people knew him.
I’m not saying the athletes here are introverted or unknown, in fact most of us have deep respect for their
work. I just wish I knew more about the teams, their goals, strategies, secret plays, who’s playing well, etc. Maybe
DC TV could interview the players of the week. Anything to build more bridges between the athletes on the field
and us, the intramural dreamers. Just a thought. Good luck to everyone, wherever you play. And if you have anything
you want to say, write for the Davidsonian. All the cool kids are doing it.

LETTERS

Pathetic idiocy

To the editors,

In response to the defacement of our house on Homecoming Weekend, we as members of Warner Hall House would like
to express our disenchantment with the undercurrent of disrespect on Patterson Court. In particular, our broken windows and urine-stained basement
signify infantilism on the part of the perpetrators. This unprovoked action is one of violence and is therefore inexcusable. Over
the past year, our basement has been covered with obscenities, our VCR has been stolen, our TV has been “borrowed,”
and our porch has been littered with glass shards. Granted, other houses have been vandalized, but our house seems to
have been the victim of choice. The nature of this attack sinks below any common standard of decency. We are
aware that Homecoming is a festive weekend, yet this type of conduct degrades the idea of Homecoming. Whether the offenders
were currently-enrolled students or alumni, the idea that anyone who attends or has graduated from Davidson College would be responsible
for such behavior is disturbing. We are concerned that this insult may have larger connotations. Was this an act of
aggression based on gender? The motivations behind such an action warrant examination. Be it a prank or a malicious destruction
of property, any community that values honor as Davidson purports to do should not only condemn but actively deter such
pathetic idiocy.

On behalf of the members of Warner Hall House,
Elizabeth Anderson ’96, President
Meg Wolff ‘96

Pissed from page 7

...shows a year, or even that Otis is only 44 years old. The point here is that the article written
in the Arts & Living section of The Davidsonian belonged in the Opinions section. Because the biggest party at Davidson
in at least 7 years (according to a lot of alumni, but still my opinion) was given poor and inaccurate
coverage by The Davidsonian, I can see why the phrase “The South’s Foremost College Weekly” is no longer printed on
the masthead. I thought The Davidsonian wanted to support the efforts of over 700 people in an appropriate, truthful fashion,
but I guess the Davidson community will have to turn to DCTV for the lone, truthful representation of Otis Day
and the Knights at Davidson College. Check out channel 14 and see why a few people’s dreams can come true
with some planning and help, and why “we can do anything we want, [because] we’re college students” as that already-not-referred-to-enough
movie says.

Sincerely,
Mark Wittschen ‘96
