THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1995

Faculty visit Court for Connor late-night

By JOANNA JOHNSON
Staff writer

Connor House invited all faculty members to a cookout and late night on March 31 with invitations that read, “No
Essays, No Tests, Just Class Participation,” emphasizing their desire to socialize with professors without the stress of academics. Approximately 25
faculty members out of almost 150 attended the event with their families. Among the departments represented were psychology, history, English,
and math.

Dr. Donna Molinek was encouraged by several students to attend and feels the reinforcement was helpful to recognize which of
her students were members of the eating house. She felt that the turnout was good, given the differing opinions about
the Court and other commitments made by members of the faculty, such as a math conference.

Dr. Scott Denham felt that faculty members may have been more inclined to accept the invitation had it been more
personal. “The house inviting the faculty is backwards. Students should be inviting professors.” Denham did not attend as he was
out of town.

Connor members tried to reinforce the general invitation by inviting their professors directly. Though it undoubtedly made a difference in
the turnout, many feel that it would be unreasonable to expect a personal invitation. Dr. John Wertheimer stated: “[Professors] shouldn’t
expect to be invited personally when the whole faculty is invited.” Wertheimer recognized that the effort to invite the faculty
was “out of respect.” He included that the event allowed him to become more comfortable with the procedures of the
court. He also enjoyed the chance to talk with former and current students and advisees in a more comfortable atmosphere.

Dr. Sara Beasley was also approached by Connor members encouraging her to go. Although she feels it is not necessary,
“Personal invitations do make a difference.” Of the whole event she commented, “I was extremely impressed that they had gone
to that trouble.”

Connor members were pleased with the event overall. Jill Dyer, President of Connor House, states, “I appreciated that the faculty
came, and I liked talking to them outside of the classroom... It offered a different avenue to get to know
them.”

Molinek added that the even smaller number of faculty represented at the late night was due to the time. “I’m
not a late night person, anyway,” she says. “I wouldn’t have been awake.”

LADIES’ LOTTERY
Junior women wait anxiously to see how many rooms in Duke are left.

Rob Kosicki

Speakers discuss race issues
Ross, Watson talk about surviving on a “white” campus

By PATRICIA EVANS
Staff writer

Friday evening, 30 students and faculty of different ethnic origins gathered to discuss issues and concerns about going to a
predominantly white school like Davidson. Moderated by RJR Consultants Michelle Watson and Ron Ross, the program began with an anecdote
about Ross’ own background, one spent at UNC-Chapel Hill among about 50 minority students.

The second stage of the discussion was a combination of answering the question, “Why are we at Davidson?” and identifying
issues that minority students or any students here at Davidson face. Among reasons for being at Davidson were the opportunities
— to go abroad, to have student-teacher interaction, to get involved and have good resources, the fi-

“I SHOULD DEFINITELY GO TO GRADUATE SCHOOL MAYBE.”
“YOU NEED HELP.”

Order the 1995 America’s Best Graduate Schools guide from U.S. News and get the help you need to make the
big decisions about grad school:
- Should you go?
- Where should you go?
- Full or part time?
- The latest on entrance tests.
- How to pay for it.

Expanded U.S. News rankings help you find the right schools. Over 30 disciplines and nearly 100 specialties are covered, including:
- Medicine and DentistryEngineering • Education • Business • Law • Health • Nursing • Physical Therapy

Plus, helpful News You Can Use® articles on applying to and selecting your school. For answers and confidence, choose America's
Best Graduate Schools.

Plus $4 postage & handling

Call Toll Free: 1-800-836-6397 Ext. 9571

Or send payment of $8.95 to:
U.S. News Specialty Marketing,
C/o Sisk Fulfillment, Dept. 9571M,
P.O. Box 463, Federalsburg, MD 21632.

Sales tax: MD (5%), DC (5.75%) residents only.
ALL ORDERS SHIPPED PRIORITY MAIL

USNEWS & WORLD REPORT

...financial aid generosity, the personal attention from students, and the size, rigor, and environment that Davidson provides as a liberal
arts college. Issues that the discussion brought up were academic, economical, emotional, and financial and related to identity, society, and
alienation.

In the third stage of the evening, Ross and Watson split the audience into six groups of four to five
students and faculty each. Each group’s job was to list issues which they saw within the previously issued categories. Some
of the more localized issues included the misconception that work-study equals financial aid, the social issues of being a minority
at Davidson College, the closed-mindedness of many students, and the questioning of identity. Senior Jason Burt said, “I just hope
that it keeps going in future years.”

Ron Ross expressed a key point in dealing with racial tensions: “Don’t push back.” Dr. Nancy Fairley pushed the importance
of upperclassman role models for minority students: “Upperclassmen have to tell the truth... they need to take responsibility and really
be honest [about Davidson].” In closing, the group formed a circle and, holding hands, recited the affirmation, “If I am
honest, open, and willing, I will be successful.”

Ross’ final remarks were reminiscent of the reasons for coming to Davidson and the resources that Davidson offers: “Never forget
why you’re here. If you feel alienated, it’s probably because you’re doing it to yourself. Everything you need to be
successful is right here. College is recognizing that all I need is right here.”

Panel from page 2

...only a tiny change in a gene will make, by calling to mind how easy it is to change grocery
store bar codes with a single pen mark. Lewontin, whose landmark research in population genetics has been cited in Newsweek,
brought up the startling fact that the most genetic difference is found within members of the same race, not between
those of dissimilar ethnic backgrounds, as is commonly thought. “Eighty-five percent of all human polymorphism occurs in local populations,” he
said, “only 15 percent is between groups of different races, which is surprising given our prejudices.”

When asked whether advanced genetic engineering will lead to the extinction of the modern-day surgeon, alumnus John Porter said that
“there will always be room for us to do what we do.” As much as scientists know about DNA, little
of that knowledge is now applicable to fighting disease. “The number of diseases that this is open to is very
small,” he said.

In the afternoon, board members were able to attend small group meetings with Davidson life science professors, to discuss more
specific issues such as the “psychology of learning” and the durability of the human brain.

Sign-ups for Reach Out President and Vice-president are April 10-13 in the Dean of Students’ Office. Questions? Call Dennis (-6511)
or Saad (-6099).

INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT

Make up to $25-$45 per hour teaching basic conversational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S. Korea. Many employers provide room
& board + other benefits. No teaching background or Asian languages required. For more information call: (206) 632-1146 ext. 353631
International Employment Group

CRUISE JOBS

Students Needed! Earn up to $2,000+ per month working for Cruise Ships or Land-Tour companies. World Travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the
Caribbean, etc.). Seasonal and Full-Time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call: Cruise Employment Services (206) 634-0468 ext.
C53632
