RT

MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1995

Jonathan Pieslak plays some serious strains.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Rob Kosicki

ALL THAT JAZZ

Jazz Ensemble entertains for Parents Weekend

By JAMES BERRY
Staff Writer

As a child, there were few television shows that warranted turning off the set in disgust. Only Dynasty, the news,
and the Lawrence Welk Orchestra had that power. It was the last of these three, with its lime-green, polyester suits
and more than tacky sets, that continues to haunt me. As a result, my exposure to the sounds of the
big band was extremely limited and had bad associations. These were my thoughts as I marched up to the 900
Room last Saturday night in order to see the Davidson College Jazz Ensemble, and so it should come as no
surprise that I left with a feeling of guilt from neglecting this type of music for so long.

Conducted by Dr. Bill Lawing, Associate Professor of Music and Chairman of the Music Department, the group has been together
for about a month and has worked furiously in an attempt to be ready for Parents’ Weekend. Despite the time
constraints and the fact that several of the ensemble’s members play in Davidson’s other musical groups, they put on an
excellent show.

Among the instruments represented were a flute, a clarinet, an electric guitar, an electric bass, drums, and a keyboard. Making
up the brass section were the trumpets, trombones, and saxophones. Eleven pieces were performed, representing several different composers and styles.

The first piece, “Lean Baby,” allowed soloists from around the stage to bare their souls while the rest of the
group held the music together as a cohesive unit. It served as an excellent introduction to the show both because
of the swinging tempo and the leisurely manner with which the solos were delivered.

The 11 pieces varied a lot in mood, style, and intensity and sometimes a particular piece would feature a conglomeration
in and of itself. One of the earlier tunes started out as a ballad with only the keyboard playing but
rocketed into a full band piece and then back to its quieter beginnings. A Dixieland tune, “Twelve Street Rag,” offered
a wall of brass with varied parts. Watching this in the tiny 900 Room with the ensemble spread out across
the stage, this piece seemed to move around the room.

Some of the other tunes experimented with space. One allowed the drums to fill out its sparse melody and later
lead the piece in a frenzied solo. Others hinted at swinging spy themes and old-fashioned dance music.

Despite the lack of polyester, the ensemble played a great show with a lot of variety. The solos were especially
fun to watch as the performers loosened up and lost themselves in the music to which the crowd was very
responsive. I left with a new appreciation for a form that had frightened me since childhood and, while The Davidson
College Jazz Ensemble is no Lawrence Welk Orchestra, I never felt the urge to turn off the television.

Mr. Coffee Ltd. Announces the

GRAND OPENING

of the

Davidson College Coffee Shoppe
In the Davidson College Bookstore

Now Serving:
Flavored & Imported Coffee
Gourmet Hot Cocoas & Teas
Exotic Herbal Teas
Coffee Makers & Supplies

THIS COUPON ENTITLES YOU TO ONE

ON THE SCENE

Today

Union Birthday Party celebrates from 4 p.m.-6 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Candidates Forum hosts the mayor and town commissioner candidates 7 p.m.-9 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Jumpin’ Java opens the week off right 8 p.m.-midnight at the Outpost.

Coffeehouse serves up good stuff 8:30 a.m.-11 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Study Break has free food 7 p.m.-9 p.m. in the Union.

Rev. Hunter Roddey, from the Center for Psychiatry at Presbyterian Hospital, speaks on “The Body/Mind/Spirit Connection” in Chambers Gallery.

SFS Presentations lets students talk about their study abroad experiences 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. in the Big Screen Room.

21-Year-Old Night lets those German study abroad students relive it all 10:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Wednesday

Yearbook Photographs really suck. 8 a.m.-6 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

Eitan Surkis-Almog, Israeli Consul in Atlanta, speaks on “The Middle East and the Era of Peace” 7 p.m.-9 p.m. in
the 900 Room.

Majors Fair has people from each department to answer questions 7 p.m.-8 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

Stress Relief workshop taught by SHOC focuses on massage and relaxation breathing 8:30 p.m.-10 p.m. in the Big Screen Room.

Breakfast Club Judd Nelson’s so hot. 9:30 p.m.-11:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Thursday

Yearbook Photographs still suck. 8 a.m.-6 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

CROP Lunch serves a well-balanced meal of beans and rice 11 a.m.-2 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Majors Fair refer to Wednesday.

Fourth World Conference for Women: "What Happens Now?” 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Friday

Breakfast Club, the Brat Pack’s debut 8 p.m.-10 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Saturday

Jumpin’ Java hosts a Scrabble tournament 2 p.m.-6 p.m. at the Outpost.

Rusted Root and Joan Osbourne play 9 p.m.-midnight in Love Auditorium.

Sunday

Jumpin’ Java closes the week off right 8 p.m.-midnight at the Outpost.

All Week

Gelatins in Our Closet: Photographs from the Permanent Collection is up in the VAC.

FREE Cup Of Coffee
Redeemable At The Bookstore

Novelist William Styron ‘46 will be on campus Thursday, November 9. Make plans to attend!
