2 THE DAVIDSONIAN © NEWS MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 1995

Carlton Pritchard retires
Richard Terry to take over Auxiliary Services
By Jennifer Kerns

Director of Auxiliary Services Carlton Pritchard will retire on April 1. Richard Terry, current Director of Residence Life, will assume
Pritchard’s position. Pritchard supervises the management of dining services, the bookstore, the laundry, and the Campus Network multi-purpose card. “This
card compares with the cards of other big universities as an all-campus card,” he says. Fourteen years ago, Pritchard served
as the first manager of Vail Commons.

Terry understands the importance of creating budgets and long-term plans, but emphasizes his desire to continue working with students. “I
realize that as Director of Auxiliary Services, there will be less intense student involvement; however, I intend to provide student
services and development.” During the next three months, Terry plans to meet weekly with Pritchard to familiarize himself with the
job.

As Vice President of Student Life, Dean Tom Shandley will head the search for a new Residence Life Director. Although
Shandley will make the ultimate decision, students will likely serve as members of the search committee. The school will place
ads in the Chronicle of Higher Education, hold conferences, and scout job centers. Kurt Holmes will act as RLO Director
until the new director takes over in June. Terry says, “It will be very easy to fill this job. Because
of our Honor Code, there are fewer disciplinary measures than at other colleges. Also, we have a healthy budget and
a commitment to high standards.”

The sale of cigarettes on campus?
Gullan writes proposal to have smokes sold in Cafe again
By Jay Jennings

Cigarettes have not been sold on campus for five years, but a resolution being brought to the SGA next week
will attempt to change this. Some students recognize the irony of the timing, after the ban on smoking in school
buildings has just been passed. The proposal will attempt to get cigarettes either sold at the Union Cafe, the Outpost,
or in a vending machine in basement Chambers. This would provide a convenience for student smokers, although they still could
not smoke in school buildings.

PiKA Senator Bill Gullan, who wrote the proposal, pointed out that students often need cigarettes on the weekends after consuming
alcohol. A cigarette machine would prevent students from driving to nearby stores late at night while under the influence. Freshman
Senator Demian Dellinger called the resolution “ridiculous,” saying that students should buy their cigarettes before they start drinking. Thad Reece,
a self-proclaimed anti-smoker, says, “I can’t see how smoking machines will affect the amount of contact I have with smoke.
It simply would be a convenience to people I know. Thus, I cannot see any reason to object to the
resolution.”

Matt Rone took a different tone when asked about his response to the proposed resolution. He says, “It seems kind
of pointless to discuss such an issue considering the recent efforts to ban smoking in certain areas on campus. Why
sell cigarettes in a building you cannot smoke in? I’ll continue to go to Dover’s.”

Cigarettes were removed from the Union Cafe five years ago. There were two main reasons: the price of the cigarettes
was not competitive with competing sellers, and students and parents were against the sale of cigarettes on campus. The SGA
tabled the proposal for one week to allow some changes in the language of the resolution. This also gives time
for students to express their opinions to their SGA representatives before the Tuesday SGA meeting.

Grades sent out quickly: blame postal service for delay
By Amy Whitmire

TheRegistrar’s Office utilized a new software program last semester which sent students their grades faster than ever before. This new
software scans grades instead of forcing them to be entered into a computer by hand. Last semester, even after a
glitch in the program occurred, the Registrar’s Office was able to mail students’ grades four working days after professors turned
in the students’ final averages. In the future, they will attempt to mail grades to students three days after the
faculty turn them in. The old process took 10 days. Registrar Polly Griffin says, “We were pleased to be able
to mail grades so much sooner than ever before. Grading and grade processing are complex functions which our new technology
has improved dramatically. One of the results is quicker turnaround time in grades.” Because students take their last exams so
close to Christmas, the holiday season interferes with exam grading. Self-scheduled exams delay grading since students take the tests in
a staggered fashion. The Registrar’s Office is required to give Davidson faculty no less than five days to grade exams
and turn in students’ final averages. The faculty’s five days begin the day after the last exam period, but the
grading period was interrupted by Christmas and New Year’s holidays for the faculty. Professors delivered final grades to the Registrar’s
Office on January 3, the fifth day that college employees worked following exams.

NAIL BOUTIQUE
e Sculptured Nails
e French Manicures
e Pedicures
e Tanning Booth

TANNING SPECIAL: 10 visits for $33.00
CONNIE AND GINA: Full Set of Nails for only $40.00 (thru February)
Located at The Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St., Cornelius
(704) 892-7030

Photo by Rob Kosicki
The snow was fun until these bikers sat down.

New PC officers elected
By Patricia Evans

New Patterson Court Council President Steven Shames looks forward to a productive and eventful year. Shames, Treasurer of Phi Delta
Theta, will work with chancellor-elect and Warner Hall President Elizabeth Anderson to review current problems on Patterson Court in 1995.
Connor President Jill Dyer now serves as Sergeant-at-Arms. She will head the judiciary and judicial board review committees. Junior Brian
Cole, President of Phi Delta Theta, is now treasurer of the council. President of Kappa Sigma Burt Arrington will chair
the newly-formed rules committee which will review the rules and laws of the court.

Shames says that the new council has “a huge agenda. It is going to be a big year. I don’t
feel that the PCC has traditionally been an influential body on campus, and it represents [a majority] of students. We
hope to re-vamp some of the by-laws, form a broader membership of the council, and create more committees.” Former President
Josh Worsham feels confident that the new council will serve the Patterson Court community well. “It looks like one of
the most energetic groups that we have ever had.” “It’s going to be a big year,” says Shames. “I think
that we will all work together well.”

Give Someone A Warm & Fuzzy Feeling This Valentine's Day
Cupid Bear is right on target when it comes to winning hearts. We offer a large selection of Valentine's gifts
which aim to please including stuffed toys, frames, gold and pewter jewelry, Crabtree & Evelyn soaps, and novelties. Choose from
hundreds of Valentine cards for that perfect sentiment. We will be happy to wrap your purchases for free, and provide
shipping service. Valentine’s Day is Tuesday, February 14.

110 S. Main
