THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1995

Christian, Antonelli, and Fischer earn physics honor

By CHAD FOGLEMAN
Staff writer

Davidson Physics Professor Wolfgang Christian and two senior physics majors, Andy Antonelli and Susan Fischer, were recently named winners in
Computers in Physics magazine’s annual software contest for their package, “Wave Equations and Other PDEs” (partial differential equations). The contest
recognizes innovative software in physics education.

“Wave Equations and Other PDEs” contains over 150 exercises designed to aid upper-level physics students in understanding various PDEs. The
user can simulate graphically such events as “the flow of particles or energy ... and the propagation of sound, light,
and water waves.” The software provides a “palette of options,” ranging from light sources to mirrors, which the user can
introduce into the situation. The resulting wave can then be analyzed in both time and space.

The package is part of the CUPS (Consortium for Upper-Level Physics Software) series, an international effort to generate a group
of software which encompasses a wide spectrum of physics topics. “Wave Equations and Other PDEs” was designed to be user-friendly,
a trait which Computers in Physics cites as a strength of the Davidson trio’s package. The magazine says, “[The program]
is easy to use, colorful, and instructive ... It should become an essential component in upper-division physics courses.”

Antonelli, who assisted Christian in designing exercises and programming, emphasizes, “We’re not inventing any new physics; we’re trying to make
this useful.”

“Wave Equations and Other PDEs,” a three-year project, was a collaborative faculty-student effort. Christian insists that its success owes much
to Antonelli and to Fischer, who tested the program and helped write the accompanying operations manual. Because of student input,
Christian says, “I think it’s a much better piece of software than if I’d just sat down and written it
myself.”

Scandal

from page 3

less of what is happening in Belk Arena.

Thrower and Sargent met to discuss the parking problem of parking during game nights and decided to send a letter
to students similar to the one students received.

Thrower says he told Sargent that he could ask students to move their cars voluntarily, but Thrower did not authorize
Sargent to convert the Baker lot into a staff lot, as Sargent said in the letter. Thrower did not see
the letter before it was distributed.

Sargent says, “I didn’t mean it [the letter] to be a threat. It is a whole lot better to cooperate
than do this.”

Sargent says he meant to express that making Baker a staff lot was an “option for the ’95-’96 academic year
for the Athletic Department.”

Concerning the possibility of Baker’s conversion into a staff lot this year, Thrower said, “It’s going to stay an open
lot. There’s no need to go to a specific grouping.”

Of Baker becoming a restricted lot next year, Thrower says, “I’m still not convinced it’s the way to go....I don’t
see any reason to change it...I’m just not for it.”

Thrower and Sargent had originally agreed that if students did not cooperate the status of the lot would be evaluated
at the end of this semester.

Because students have been cooperative, both agree there will be no need to change the status of the lot.

A student suggested to Sargent that a shuttle system would go a long way in reconciling with disgruntled students and
be a convenience for students with a long walk from satellite to their dorms before the games and then back
out to satellite.

Sargent promised to be waiting in the satellite parking lot at five o’clock on Tuesday for students who wanted a
ride back to their dorms.

Jeff Kent is available. Call -2148. Leave a message.

SGA resolution makes records public

By MARY CLARE JALONICK
News Editor

Students who wonder what is going on in the SGA can now satisfy their curiosity while procrastinating in the library.
The SGA passed a resolution Tuesday to provide a public record of all student government proceedings.

The resolution states: “The absence of easily-accessible records of SGA proceedings contributes to insufficient communication between the senate and students,
[and] such a deficiency of communication contributes to a lack of accountability of senators to those represented.” Senior Senator Chad
Lloyd saw an easy solution to the problem and created a notebook to be placed in the front lobby of
the library.

The notebook will contain copies of minutes and financial documents.

The SGA also passed a “Student Government Association Accountability Act.” This resolution, also created by Lloyd, calls for publications of
roll call votes as well.

Duties Include —

Summer Conference Assistant
RLO Office Assistant
Resident Advisor for Ryburn
On-Call and Weekend Duty

Conference Assistants Needed

Benefits —

$6.50 per hour/40 hour week
Ryburn Apartment (Shared)
10 Meal Plan When Available
Great Learning Experience

** Graduating Seniors Will Be Considered For These Positions **

Applications Available at the Residence Life Office

Deadline: February 8, 1995

Call x2188 or stop by for additional information
