THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 1995 15

Swimming continues success with win over Ga. Tech

By Mike Guggenheimer

In his second year as head coach of Davidson’s swimming and diving teams, Rich DeSelm has been very pleased with
what he’s seen. “This year has been more difficult for me,” DeSelm says. His first year was tough, but he
held back some to get a feel for the team. “I’m tightening the screws again this year,” he says. And
his swimmers have responded very well. In addition to both the men’s and women’s teams boasting Academic All-American accolades with
team GPAs over 3.0, they are doing well in the pool. “No one thinks Davidson will do well, but we
have high expectations,” DeSelm says. They repeatedly surprise bigger and more established programs with their performances.

That was the case Sunday as the men faced Georgia Tech in a meet at home. Last year, the Yellow
Jackets took the meet by winning the final relay by 33 hundredths of a second. This year, the Wildcats won
the meet’s opening relay and did not look back, going on to demolish their opponent. “You can tell that the
training is paying off and the focus is there,” DeSelm said. Freddy Schnell, Matt Buck, Corey Bean, and Timothy Lim
combined on that first relay - the 200 medley relay - to set a record and set the tone for
the event.

Reflecting on the season as a whole, DeSelm cites Parents’ Weekend as one of the highlights, when the teams combined
for three victories over two days. The only loss that weekend was a three-point loss by the women to a
good College of Charleston squad. He said that after that weekend, the team realized that they could be successful and
gained enthusiasm. Another important time for the team was the Florida training trip over Christmas break. “We went down there
for 10 days and trained hard,” says DeSelm. “The team really began to pull together.”

For the second year in a row, the team has a great group of freshmen. The men are led by
Buck, who has a chance to qualify for the NCAAs, and veteran leader, junior Churchill Hooff. “Churchill is swimming very,
very well right now,” DeSelm says. Co-captain Bean and freshman Schnell have also been important contributors for the Wildcats. The
women are led by sophomore Susanne Herring and three freshmen: Heather Sweeny, Kelly Bolterstein, and Allison Beebe. Michael Hart, Jonathan
Frost, and Meg Bentley have been the top performers so far for the divers.

While they usually aim to peak at the end of the season, DeSelm says that many of the swimmers are
already recording personal bests. The team works hard and a few of the swimmers seem to be improving “every time
they step into the pool,” says DeSelm. The Wildcats next face Duke and Richmond Saturday in a meet at Duke.
DeSelm has high hopes for the conclusion of the season at the Southern States meet in three weeks. He is
very proud of his team and what it has accomplished; and with such a young and determined team, the future
certainly looks bright.

Slammin’ from page 14

Narcisse Ewodo came off the bench to contribute 14 points, including a couple high-flying dunks, crowd-pleasing blocks and all-around great
hustle. Also giving big performances off the bench were Ray Minlend and Billy Armstrong, who both filled the point guard
spot when starter Chris Alpert was saddled on the bench with four fouls for more than 11 minutes of the
second half. “I couldn’t have been more pleased with Ray and Billy,” coach Bob McKillop said. “The bench stepped up
and gave us a great lift tonight.” Now the Wildcats are sitting in good position in the conference with a
two-game lead on the Herd and already having beaten ETSU on the road. Davidson travels to Georgia Southern tonight before
coming home Saturday toface Western Carolina, which before Saturday’s loss to The Citadel was the only undefeated team in the
league. “It hasn’t mattered to us what everyone else is doing,” Williams said. “What decides where we’re going is us.”

Davidson started the game strong, scoring the first four points and jumping out to leads of 11-3 and 18-8, capped
by a three-pointer by Alpert at the 10:46 mark and fueled by a dunk from Williams. The Wildcats were beating
Marshall at its own game, running the fast-break well, handling the Herd’s pressure defense, and getting hands on many passes
on defense. That continued for most of the first half, as every time Marshall would creep closer, the Wildcats would
respond with a mini-run to increase the margin again to the halftime score of 43-30.

“We are a team that’s comfortable playing both an up-tempo game and the half-court game,” McKillop said. “We can be
very effective at both, which is part of our success.”

After a Spain putback to start the second half, Marshall appeared to rattle Davidson a little bit and went on
an 18-4 run to close to 49-48. Tink Brown (11 points) had two three-pointers in the run, and Shawn Moore
(22 points) added a three-pointer and a dunk. But the Wildcats responded impressively, going on a 22-7 run to up
the lead to 16 points, basically ending the game. The spurt was started by the clutch play of Minlend, who
converted a pass from Quinn Harwood perfectly and then turned around and forced a Marshall turnover.

“Ray sparked all of that,” Minlend said. “All of a sudden that one-point lead is five points.” Ewodo had all
nine of his second-half points in the run, including a show-stopping, authority baseline slam, drawing a foul from Malik Hightower.

“We’re working on developing a killer instinct,” Williams said. “We were a little complacent with that little cushion we had...
We’re working on putting people away.”

HELP WANTED!! Men/Women earn up to $480 weekly assembling circuit boards/electronic components at home. Experience unnecessary, will train. Immediate openings
in your local area. Call 1-602-680-4647, Ext.102c

DAVIDSON STUDENTS!!! PEDAL FOR THE PLANET THIS SUMMER WITH BIKE-AID: A PROJECT OF THE OVERSEAS DEVELOPMENT NETWORK. Bicycling across the
U.S. in a community of 15-20 others, raising money for environmentally sustainable development, participating in educational exchanges with local communities,
experiencing life to its fullest!!!

Routes Available:
All routes to Washington, D.C.
Jun. 12-Aug 24: From Seattle
Jun. 12-Aug 24: From Portland (women only)
Jun. 12-Aug 24: From San Francisco
July 15-Aug 24: From Austin, TX
July 31-Aug 24: From Montreal (No Support Van)

1-800-RIDE-808
San Fran., CA. 94103. 333 Valencia St., Suite 330
SPACE IS LIMITED, SO REGISTER NOW! BIKE!

KOBE JAPANESE HOUSE OF STEAKS & SEAFOOD

Need an Original Valentine's Day Gift? HOW ABOUT A MASSAGE AT THE DUCHESS? Great for:
- Stress Relief
- Relaxing
- Curing Fatigue

Special Offer: $20.00 per 1/2 hour with Davidson Student I.D. Located at the Chair Factory, 20700 N. Main St. Call
Jerry at 892-8577 for more information.

COUNSELOR: Camp Illahee for Girls, Brevard, NC, is seeking creative, enthusiastic individuals committed to building children's self-esteem and serving as
positive role models. Wonderful opportunity for personal and professional growth. Staff needed for: tennis, swimming, riding, kayaking, rock climbing, arts,
nurse, and more. For more information (704) 883-2181. P.O. Box 272 Brevard, NC 28712. On Campus interview: Feb. 7, 11
a.m. to 1:30 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

COME JOIN US FOR MIDWINTERS. KOBE NOW FEATURES EARLY BIRD SPECIALS FROM 5 PM UNTIL 6:30 PM. RIGHT NOW COME
IN AND GET $2.00 OFF ANY CHICKEN OR SHRIMP DINNER OR GET $3.00 OFF ANY CHICKEN AND SHRIMP COMBINATION.

Lunch Wed., Thurs., & Fri. 11:30-2pm
Sun-Thurs. 5-10pm; Fri-Sat. 5-11 pm.
I-77 Exit 28, Next to Movies at the Lake.
NEXT TO MOVIES AT THE LAKE
20465 CHARTWELL CTR. DR.
CORNELIUS, NC. 704-896-7778.
