14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1995

Cats wrap up Season, prepare for tourney

"I feel our team can play with anybody in the league."

By Daniel Motz
Staff writer

The volleyball team had a difficult time Saturday in its final two matches of the regular season, dropping both.

VOLLEYBALL

In the morning, the Wildcats fell to Marshall 15-6, 15-9, 15-5. Also defeating the Wildcats was James Madison in a tight five-set match, marking the last regular-season match for Wildcats senior Michele Augustin.

Against Marshall, Davidson showed signs of their progress made during the year, but the Wildcats lacked consistency. Marshall stormed out to an 8-3 lead in the first set and cruised to a 1-0 set lead. Despite taking a 6-3 lead in the second set, the Wildcats could not take control. The Fighting Herd, led by senior outside hitter Jessica Braga from Brazil, went on an eight-point run and took a 2-0 set lead. The tired Wildcats could not overcome a 9-0 deficit in the third set, leading to the Marshall rout.

The first two sets against the Dukes were much the same for Davidson. The Wildcats fell behind early in each set, losing 15-8 and 15-6. Looking like a James Madison rout, Davidson coach Lisa Radford urged her team to lighten up and have fun. “After that second set, I told the team a joke ... It was getting way too heavy out there,” Radford said.

The Wildcats responded. Led by Augustin’s spirited effort, Davidson won the next two sets 15-10, 15-8. But in the end, the experienced James Madison club was too tough for the young Wildcats as the Dukes captured the match with a 15-7 fifth set win.

Augustin was honored before the James Madison match. The Wildcats captain has been a significant player on the Wildcats’ squad for four years, winning Freshman of the Year honors in 1992 and consistently leading in the Southern Conference in several categories. Her versatility and leadership made her very valuable to Davidson over her career.

“She has been the most versatile player I have ever worked with ... She is truly a leader. When she is up, the team is up,” Radford said.

With a full week to practice, the Wildcats look to do well in the Southern Conference tournament at Belk Arena this weekend. The Wildcats have made great improvements this season, and Radford and the squad obviously hope that they are demonstrated next weekend. Neither Davidson’s seed nor opponent has been determined yet, but whomever the Wildcats face, Radford feels confident.

“I feel our team can play with anybody in the league,” she said.

First-round matches will be held Friday, and the tournament will continue Saturday before Sunday’s final at 2 p.m.

Write for Sports. Talk to Schoon at -2148

And a Scott McKenzie theatre production in two acts of “The Gift of the Magi,” by O. Henry

The pageant and dinner begins with a Trumpet Fanfare: “Bring on the Wassail!” Entertainment features musicians, dancers, an elaborate period set, rich costumes and a talented cast presentation. The four-course Victorian Feast includes Wassail, traditional Roast Goose with all the trimmings, Tenderloin of Beef and Flaming Plum Pudding. This very special holiday celebration will uplift the Christmas Spirit in everyone!

Begins at 6:30 p.m, seating until7:15; the evening concludes by 9:30. Price: $49 per person, excluding tax and gratuity. Staying the night? Call for special rates just for this event. Reserve Now

ONLY EIGHT PERFORMANCES:
Wed., Nov. 29
Thur., Nov. 30
Sun., Dec. 3
Mon., Dec. 4
Sun., Dec. 10
Mon., Dec. 11
Sun., Dec. 17
Mon., Dec. 18

ADVANCE RESERVATIONS REQUIRED: 704/364-8220
2200 Rexford Rd., Charlotte, NC 28211
704/364-8220

A Bissell Hotel

Volleyball players block the ball and the photographer. Rob Kosicki

Southern Conference could add three schools
Associated Press

CHARLESTON, SC—The Southern Conference could soon be adding three new schools. The current presidents of the conference, which includes Davidson, recently voted to invite UNC Greensboro, College of Charleston, and Wofford to join the league.

“It was a unanimous decision,” Claudius Watts, president of The Citadel, told The (Charleston, SC) Post and Courier. Watts also said the presidents voted at the league’s annual winter meetings to amend the conference’s constitution to allow schools that do not play Division I football to join the conference. Davidson is currently the only school in the conference not to play a Southern Conference schedule. The Wildcats are classified in Division I-AA for football but play a Division III schedule.

The College of Charleston does not have a football team, and the school’s president, Alex Sanders, said he doubted the college would create a team soon. “I understand we have been considered for (Southern Conference) membership,” Sanders said. “However, under the league’s bylaws, I don’t think we’re eligible to become members because we don’t have a football team. If it takes a football team to become a member of the Southern Conference, we will never become members.”

The Charleston newspaper also reported that the presidents voted to extend the invitations next month and ask the new schools to begin competing in the 1998-99 season. The conference formed a five-member committee to conduct on-campus visits to the three schools. The group will be headed by assistant commissioner Geoff Cabe and will hold the visits in the next few weeks.

“It’s not a done deal,” said College of Charleston athletic director Jerry Baker. “We have not been extended an official invitation, but we have talked with the Southern Conference about joining the league.”

The College of Charleston is currently in the Trans America Athletic Conference and was recently selected to host the conference’s basketball tournament in 1997 and ‘98. The school’s basketball coach, John Kresse, said the college would have to look seriously at any invitation. “The Southern Conference has a great tradition,” he said. “There would be a lot of natural rivalries for all our teams.”

UNC Greensboro is likely to leave the Big South Conference soon, and Wofford, which is located in Spartanburg, SC, remains an independent. Other Southern Conference members are: The Citadel, Tennessee-Chattanooga, Furman, Georgia Southern, Appalachian State, Western Carolina, Virginia Military Institute, Marshall, and East Tennessee State. Marshall will leave the conference in 1997.

Schoon wants out of his job. We need a new Sports editor for the spring semester. It’s a great job, so call us at -2148 for more information.