SPORTS

MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1995

Cats lose another heartbreaker

Despite a close bout with Hampden-Sydney, Cats continue to build

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Staff Writer

“They’re 1-7, but they’re not losers,” Davidson coach Tim Landis said after his Wildcats’ 22-19 heart-wrenching Parents’ Weekend loss to
Hampden-Sydney on Saturday.

FOOTBALL

A late fourth-quarter Dunn Mileham field goal attempt that caromed off the upright and a Clif Henry interception with just
over a minute remaining denied the Wildcats at least a tie.

After a close first half which ended with Hampden-Sydney clinging to a 14-13 lead, both defenses buckled down in the
second stanza, each allowing a touchdown.

But in the end, it was again the Wildcats who hung their heads after another missed opportunity to end their
losing streak that now stands at seven games.

Davidson again bettered its opponent in most important statistical categories except score, including time of possession, passing yards, and total
yards. And despite the discouraging record, the Wildcats have earned the respect of opponents and spectators alike.

James Cassidy (10 tackles and a sack on Saturday) continued to play like an All-American. The senior has set a
Davidson single-season sack mark with nine and, in doing so, has shattered the school’s career record with 21.5.

Cassidy and fellow seniors Will Robinson (14 tackles), Bo Bartholomew (seven), Keith Davis, and Adam Gess have instilled a winning
attitude into the younger players that should pay dividends for the program in the future.

“I want to have no regrets when I leave Davidson College,” Cassidy said. “If there’s one thing we can give
(the underclassmen), if it’s not a winning season, we can show them what it takes to win.”

And the younger players have taken note. Shreve Ariail, Dan Dearing, Marcus Williams, Kevin Graham, and Ben Spivey, all underclassmen,
have become important cogs in the defense.

“Our players work so hard,” said freshman wideout Mike Harrington, who posted a team-high five catches for 49 yards.

“We play because we love the game of football,” added freshman Henry, an all-state quarterback in Georgia last year who
played tremendously Saturday in his first college start.

Unfortunately, many will remember the late interception he threw that essentially iced the Tigers' victory, but he also registered the
squad’s season-best passing output with 212 yards on 22 completions.

Henry connected with nine different receivers and provided an additional rushing option at quarterback. With his performance, Henry will start
next Saturday when Davidson visits Centre College (Ky.). Davidson winds up the season the following Saturday at home against Bridgewater.

Lorenzo Moll (61 yards and a 26-yard touchdown run), Mike Warrick (40 yards at fullback slot and a 2-yard scoring
dive), and Bryan Kern (28 yards four carries) anchored the rushing attack.

“Things will come together,” Landis said. “It doesn’t happen overnight. You build it over time, and this will pay off.”

Said Henry: “We’ve got two games left, and we’re going to win them.”

Freshmen show strength in opening meet

By CARLO REYNOLDS
Staff Writer

The course of events mostly followed the anticipated road Saturday in the men’s and women’s swimming and diving meet against
Virginia Tech, the teams’ season openers.

SWIMMING & DIVING

Coaches expected and received strong individual performances, but weren’t banking on a victory at Baker’s Cannon pool.

“Everyone has been working very hard, and, after a long period of training, many athletes are going to see the
fruits of their labors and turn in fine performances,” Assistant Coach Sam Jalet said.

With a strong freshman class and most of the core group of top performers returning from last year, this season
should be better than last year’s.

Jalet said the women’s squad should improve on last year’s fourth place in the Southern States Championships to second or
third, and the men’s team should successfully defend its title.

In the opener Saturday, after seven weeks of practice, the men’s team lost by 14 points, while the women’s team
also fell.

“We had a really good training base, and there was definitely a little extra nervous tension since this was the
first meet,” said women’s team captain Katharine Welling.

The freshman class began to assert itself Saturday. Allison Hobgood and Kathleen Paffenroth won their first college races, Hobgood in
the 100 backstroke and Paffenroth in the 200 IM. Jay Rosenquest picked up his first college win in the 100
breaststroke. Mike McCabe and Jason Prince both had several close finishes as well as being part of the winning medley
relay team with Freddy Schnell and Corey Bean.

Upperclassmen provided some excitement as well. Kelly Bolterstein came from behind to win the 100 freestyle and also won the
50. On the men’s side, Churchill Hooff won two races — the 1000 freestyle and the 500 freestyle.

Virginia Tech evidently came to Davidson confident of a victory. Midway through the meet, though, the Hokies had to rethink
their strategy.

“They weren’t expecting us to be as good as we were, and, in the middle of the meet, they had
to change their line-up to put some of their better swimmers in key positions to ensure that they went away
with the victory,” said Rosenquest.

“Even though we lost, it was good experience,” Schnell said. “We still had a productive meet.”
