Che Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

VOLUME LXXXVII MONDAY, MARCH 27, 1995 NUMBER 12

Five Court Houses in Debt to College

Controller’s Office will set up installment plan to allow houses to work

By JOANNA JOHNSON
Assistant News Editor

Because of confusion over billing, five Patterson Court houses have not fully paid their bills to the College and are thus in debt. The most one house owes is over $4,000. Most of the houses attribute their debts to the Controller’s Office not making clear how and when they had to pay.

Each house is billed monthly for expenses including natural gas, Physical Plant charges, health insurance, and worker’s compensation for employees. According to Steve Shames, President of Patterson Court Council, each house on the Court has received monthly statements for these expenses for at least the past two years. Yet many of the houses complain that the Controller’s Office never explains when the money is due and never sends actual bills. As a result, Shames reports that Patterson Court has a debt of over $20,000, with each house owing varying amounts.

Annette Bagley, who works in the Accounts Receivable Department of the Controller’s Office, suggests that the build-up of debts is due to the yearly changes in house treasurers and presidents. She says that successors to these positions are not made aware of the house’s debts owed to the Controller’s Office. One former treasurer says he was made aware of the situation, but was also told that the Controller’s Office did not make much of an effort to obtain the money, nor did they charge any interest. Like many other Patterson Court treasurers, he just “let the situation ride.”

Now houses are having to face their debts because the school is taking more aggressive measures to collect the money. But most houses cannot foresee paying off their debts this year because they have already set their budgets. Bagley attended a PCC meeting where she explained that some houses need to work on paying off their debts. She says five houses are in “excellent shape,” but the other five need to work on setting up payment plans. Shames says that the houses...

see Bills on page 5

Firm Proposes Plans for Internet Interface

College moving towards networked dorms

By BRAD D. CHASE
Staff Writer

After the visit of a communications firm last week, Davidson has moved another leap and bound towards a networked campus. Trellis Communications, Inc. visited Davidson for three days last week. While here they talked with the computer services staff, system managers, students, and faculty in order to determine the College’s wants and needs for electronic communications.

The firm is currently busy going over layouts of all college buildings to determine what materials will be needed to network all dormitories and academic buildings. Some of the buildings are already wired for ethernet, a high-speed data connection that would allow students access to such features as Netscape. However, these dorms, Duke and two of the Senior Apartments, do not have the necessary wiring hooking...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

them to the network itself. Trellis hopes to have a plan drawn out by the first of the year and then go over any problems or questions the College may have. After working out concerns, presenting a plan to the trustees by March. Since the improvements suggested by Trellis will not fit into any regular budget areas, the trustees will have to vote to fund any wiring that will be done. If approved, the College will phase in the updates over the next few years.

At meetings with students and faculty, the long wait when attempting to establish a modem connection to the network at all times of the day was cited as a major problem. Trellis suggested adding more modems until the networking plan takes effect. Among other suggestions that Trellis will take into consideration when formulating the master plan for networking at Davidson are

See Networked on page 2

Habitat House seeks $40,000 by December

By SARAH TEACHWORTH
Staff Writer

Yellow Hammer Head buttons, flyers, and announcements at Patterson Court houses have made it impossible to miss the fundraising drive for Davidson’s Habitat for Humanity House. House organizers need $40,000 to begin construction this December. The main fundraiser is the Hammer Head campaign. Volunteers wearing Hammer Head pins roam through residence halls asking for donations of $20. If a student gives, he receives half of a Hammer Head flyer. If his roommate also gives $20, he gets the other half and the two of them have a whole hammerhead to display in their window as a symbol of their donation. The first hall to reach 100 percent participation will get to name the Hammer Head and decide its gender. Also, the Residence Life Office plans to donate $250 to the Habitat House in the winning hall’s name.

November 30 marks the end of the Hammer Head campaign. It will be called Home Day and will be marked with a rally for the Habitat House, complete with a speaker, a video, and food. From 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., coffee, tea, and hot chocolate will be served on the Union Patio. At 5 p.m. the kick-off dinner will be held in Johnston Gym, beginning with remarks from College President John Kuykendall. All eating houses and fraternities have agreed to cancel dinner so members can attend the dinner. Organizers invite all students, faculty, staff, and administrators. The initial sign-ups for those wanting to volunteer to work on the house next semester will be at the dinner on the 30th. The organizers will need volunteers to help build the house and to bring food to the workers during the construction. On an individual level, everyone who gives $20 will have their name put up on a bulletin board in Chambers. If a student cannot give the full amount but still can donate, they are encouraged to contribute what they can.

See Habitat on page 4

Project Life
Your belly and Totally rad B-ball ready THIS WEEK types over 300 you, so happy FLAG fashion for winning First Class Mail Lindsey together! show seasons Permit #1

NEWS 3 | OPINIONS 9 | ARTS & LIVING 12 | SPORTS 16