THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1995

Fall Convocation date creates inconvenience

By Cyab WELLMON
Staff Writer

Instead of hundreds of parents and students filling the chairs of the Fall Convocation next month, hundreds of alumni and
off-campus visitors, celebrating the end of a mammoth fundraising campaign, will form the audience. The class of 1996 will have
their Fall Convocation on October 6, when most students will be making their way to their much-anticipated Fall Break destinations.

But why is Fall Convocation scheduled on a day of exodus instead of the usual date, parents’ weekend, when the
chairs are filled by proud parents and friends? Dr. Kelton, organizer of the convocation, says the date of the Fall
Convocation was moved to the 6th of October to become a part of a weekend of celebration, focusing on the
completion of a $158 million dollar, five-year fundraising campaign. According to Dean of Students Tom Shandley, the change of date
is a temporary, one-year occurrence.

After black tie dinners and receptions, leaders, donors, and workers for the campaign will take their places in the audience
and applaud the achievements of the class of 1996. Those associated with the campaign will be joined in recognizing the
senior class by Dr. John Brademas, President Emeritus of New York University, who will be the speaker for the convocation.
After the Convocation ceremonies, the campaign festivities continue with an elaborate luncheon. The SGA will select a small number of
students to be included on the invitation list.

When asked to comment on the near certainty of low student attendance and a high number of visitors at convocation,
Dr. Kelton stated, “[That] will be up to the students, because classes are not over until 4:30.” The Dean of
Students office is organizing a panel discussion between administrators and parents for Saturday afternoon. Parents will have the opportunity to
ask questions of administrators representing most of the major areas of the College.

Reversal of roles
New position moves seniors into critical role in admissions process

By WILL BRADSHAW
Staff Writer

In an attempt to individualize the campus visit program and give prospective students a chance to interview current Davidson students,
a handful of seniors will be chosen as the first Senior Admission Fellows on Wednesday, September 13th.

“As a department, we wanted to engage the talents of current Davidson students in the recruitment and selection of future
Davidsonians. We also want to give prospective students and their families a kind of up close and personal insight into
the Davidson experience, and the Senior Fellows will be chosen on their ability to do those things,” says Dean of
Admissions Dr. Nancy Cable.

The Senior Fellows will

---

The Chocolate Cookie Dough Sundae is our famous cookie dough ice cream topped with rich hot fudge, chocolate whipped cream,
and real chocolate chips.
202 S. Main St. Davidson, NC 892-0604

Announcing...
Auditions for Music Theatre Scenes Workshop
For recitals to take place May 3rd & 4th

Works being considered:
Guys and Dolls
Showboat
Princess Ida
Cosi fan tutte
La Perichole
Don Pasquale
Oklahoma
Bye Bye Birdie

Auditions will be held:
Monday, September 18th 3:30-6:00pm Room 155 of Cunningham
& Wednesday, September 20th 5:00-7:30pm Hodson Hall

Interested students need to contact Diane Thornton in Eu Hall or call her at 892-2414

---

Lucia Plosser hollers as she wallops the ball. See story on page 15.
Brandon ClarkeWork in conjunction with the admissions staff eight to ten hours per week, ten weeks per semester. Their duties
will include giving individual interviews, helping out at campus events, and generally serving as an adjunct member of the staff.
They will be paid a semester honorarium.

“One of the leading hallmarks of Davidson has always been our personalized and hospitable campus visit program,” Deborah Hogg, Assistant
Dean of Admission and the program coordinator, said. “In the last few years, however, our staff has had a diminished
ability to meet one-on-one with students, and the Senior Admissions Fellows should enhance the individual attention prospective students receive.”

There will be five to eight Senior Fellows chosen, and due to their addition, the staff plans on being able
to offer eight individual interviews a day. These interviews, Hogg stressed, will be optional and non-evaluative. “It is an opportunity
for a prospective to interview us about Davidson,” she said.

The Fellows will start their training during Alumni Leadership weekend, which will occur on September 15th, 16th, and 17th. After
which, they will have two more weeks of training in the admissions office. The system was modeled on similar programs
in place at schools throughout the country. Last year, the Admissions office collected information from Denison University, Connecticut College, Dartmouth
College, DePauw University, and Vanderbilt University to help formulate ideas for the program at Davidson. The selection process for next
year’s Fellows will begin the week after Spring Break.

Duke Divinity professor to speak
By Matthew Eirich, News Editor

Stanley Hauerwas, professor of theological ethics at the Duke Divinity School, will speak in the 900 Room on Sunday the
17th and Monday the 18th at 7:30 pm. Hauerwas’ topic will be “Why Christians Should Be Pacifists: The Ethics of
War and Peace.” Hauerwas is a theologian who has tried to show how Christian convictions help affect lives. Hauerwas firmly
believes in the importance of character and virtue in understanding Christian ethics. In his writings, he also emphasizes the importance
of a “Story-Shaped Community” — the church — as the necessary polity for Christian formation and moral reflection. Among his
many books are Preaching to Strangers and the Encyclopedia of Bioethics.

Self from page 1

Assess and “document everything from the broadest to the narrowest; from our statement of purpose to the number of paperclips
we use.” Nelson and Hansford Epes, the editor of the Self-Study, are finalizing their report for this first half of
the study. The accreditation procedure, Epes says, has a dual purpose: “To allow us to assess ourselves and others to
assess us.” Davidson is one of eighteen schools that were selected last year to undertake a modified version of the
Self-Study. Nelson predicts that Davidson might even be the first of all of the schools to complete this half of
the study.

Attention will soon turn to the Focus Committees. They will undergo a consultative study of five areas: education (especially science),
quality of student life, information technology, athletics, and financial management. Members of the faculty will co-chair each of the committees.
The SACS will select specialists in these five areas to visit and review Davidson in October. “This self-study is gratifying,
but extremely ambitious. It is a monumental job, but crucial for the future of the College,” says President John Kuykendall.

Eating Disorder Awareness Week starts a little early with a panel discussion Tuesday night. Call the Union for more info.
