RTS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1995

Round the world in two hrs.
By RENU BHATT
Staff writer

Saturday night, MC Devjani Dev took a full audience in the 900 Room on an adventurous trip around the world
during International Night. The evening included several entertaining performances by international students, as well as other ISA members.

The tour began in India. Freshman Aparna Iyer presented a traditional South Indian dance, “Tillana,” where the dancer depicts a
dance of the lord Krishna in the garden of Brindhavan with his devotee and lover, Radha. Aparna’s speed and grace
enthralled the “tourists.”

Moving south to the island of Sri Lanka, we found Amalia Amarasinghe. Amalia performed a Kandyan dance, a traditional dance
whose name is derived from Kandy, the hill capital of Sri Lanka where it originated. The dance was accompanied with
music and featured a special type of drum, called “Geta Bera.” Amalia’s movements symbolized an elephant moving gracefully through a
parade during a religious festival in a Buddhist temple.

A stop in Indonesia featured another dance called “Marga Pati.” Yanti Ardie performed this dance which originated on the island
of Bali. Her exotic dance depicted a young prince, pondering his fate, while consulting the sun and the moon.

Leaving the East, the tour found itself in Africa. Tiese Manigo put on yet another dance. She danced to a
song entitled “Drums of Passion,” or “Jin-Go-Lo-Ba.” Tiese’s style was passionate, as she energetically strutted about the stage with incredible
grace and style.

Next, the tour took a turn northward to Europe. The first stop was France. Rachel Balsan sang a song by
Yves Montand, entitled “Les Feuilles Mortes,” or “The Falling Leaves.” Her unbelievable a cappella voice filled the room with awe.
Catherine Bataller followed with a poetry reading in French. Among the works she recited were “L’horloge” (“The Clock”) and a
piece by Victor Hugo. Catherine ended with a recitation of a song by Jacques Brel and soon was joined by
Rachel Balsan and Doris Hermann. The trio sang another famous French song called “Les Copains.”

See Les on page 11

Cajun man. Gator Gumbo
By KATHARINE LAIDLAW
Staff writer

If you aren’t going to make it to Mardi Gras this year, and Monday night at the Pub just doesn’t
stir your social instincts, then the Union-sponsored Cajun Night may have been the alternative you were looking for.

Entering the 900 Room, I was amazed at how far a little dim lighting and a few plastic beads could
go. No, I didn’t feel as if I had suddenly been transported to a nightclub on the Bayou — but
then again, I didn’t really feel like I was at Davidson either, which was kind of a hoot. And hey,
who can argue with free food?

In the spirit of things, the haute cuisine of this event included two forms of jambalaya, though naysaying New Orleans
native Amy Liz Batz said it tasted like “Mexican rice with Tabasco sauce” — to be the authentic stuff for
which we all road trip south, it would at least need shrimp and chicken.

The master of ceremonies at this chic soirée was Jean Pruitt, one of the six members of a bluegrass/cajun outfit
known as Carolina Gator Gumbo. With such famous waltzes as “J’ai passé devant ta porte,” Pruitt implored each of us
to forget our not fully adult self-consciousness and cut the rug, cajun style. There were even a couple of distinguished
dance instructors on hand. So, if you were feeling bold and ready to face the slings and arrows of your
fellowClassmates, you didn’t have to jump into the deep end of the dance floor without a lifeguard. Nevertheless, a friend
of mine responded to their well-intended entreaties to dance by quipping, “Thank you, no, I’m driving.” At first, the steps
didn’t seem too complicated. Basically, if you could count 1-2-3 and put the emphasis on the one and the three,
you might not look half as retarded out there as you would have thought. (Not like I tried.) Things soon
got a little hairier with the instructions, “Right together, right tap. Left together, left tap.” It sounds simple, but even
the smooth and capable Rosie Molinary looked befuddled.

After See Gumbo on page 12

Straight out of the Swiss Alps,
By Emily Simmons
Staff writer

Davidson College Theater Department has a big week coming up, with the production of The Heidi Chronicles beginning Tuesday, February
21, coinciding with the symposium “Tomorrow’s Women: Issues of Concern to Men and Women as the New Century Approaches” Monday,
February 27.

Written by Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright Wendy Wasserstein, The Heidi Chronicles shows the progress of an entire generation from the 1960s
to 1989 through the life of the main character, Heidi. Heidi, played by Davidson sophomore Amanda Davis, is a part
of this generation. She is also a disillusioned art historian studying unrecognized women artists who are unrecognized simply because they
are women. Although she at one time had strong convictions about the equality of men and women, she feels that
those goals are not surfacing and that maybe they never will.

Heidi’s best friend in the play is Peter, played by freshman Ben Lukey. Peter and Heidi met at a school
dance in 1965 and have been friends ever since. For Heidi, Peter is a perfect example of her ideal of
“the individual expression of the human soul” because he follows his own path and does not get caught up in
the popular lifestyle of any given time. On the other hand, Heidi’s former lover Scoop, played by freshman Benjamin Summers,
has become a yuppie and married a “nice” wife who stays in the background, allowing Scoop to lead his life
as he pleases. Although Heidi is attracted to Scoop, he forces her to question her beliefs about men and women.
This makes her wonder whether all her goals are for naught.

Throughout the play, Heidi is constantly struggling as a “woman trying to find her place in the world.” Heidi is
frustrated but optimistic as the play ends because she feels that her generation has helped lay the groundwork for the
next generation to be successful.

Director of The Heidi Chronicles, Davidson assistant theater professor Ann Marie Costa chose the play in conjunction with the “Women
in the Arts” celebration in Charlotte. She also chose the play because she believes it will appeal in many ways
to college-age students. For instance, it asks the question “where will you be in ten years?” something most Davidson students
probably have thought about many times. Although not specifically political, the play will be appealing to both college-age and older
viewers in its portrayal of history from the past few decades. As faculty and staff recognize events from the sixties
and seventies, the play will provide for the students “another way of seeing history through a dramatic lens, rather than
just reading it in the newspaper,” according to Costa.

Presented by the Davidson Theater Department and the Gender Studies Program, the symposium “Tomorrow’s Women” focuses on the same concerns
presented in Heidi — where women and men

See Heidi on page 12
