CS THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1995
Panel talks DNA to Board of Visitors

BRIEFS

Lighting By RANDY HARTWELL Humanities Program; Dr. John Porter ‘81, Medical College of Ohio trauma surgeon and professor; and Dr. Malcom Campbell ‘84, Davidson biology professor. 
Staff writer

The Board of Visitors held their annual meeting Friday. As a part of the day, they received a crash course in molecular biology as part of the college’s efforts to raise funds for the construction of the new Life Sciences building. Board members were able to view displays from the Biology and Psychology Departments, both of which will be housed in the new building, and listen to the key issues panel entitled, “This Is Your Life.”

The panel’s moderator was Dr. Richard Brubaker, Davidson Class of 1959, who is Director of Medical Ventures at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. He addressed the group, saying that “Opening before us are the secrets that disclose the whole biological universe.” Panelists included Dr. Richard Lewontin, Professor of Biology and Zoology at Harvard; Dr. Rosemarie Tong, Professor and Director of Davidson’s Medical Humanities Program; Dr. John Porter ‘81, Medical College of Ohio trauma surgeon and professor; and Dr. Malcom Campbell ‘84, Davidson biology professor. Campbell began the discussion explaining the workings of genes and chromosomes in laymen’s terms for the visitors. To make the molecular processes easier to understand, he likened the DNA everyone inherits from their parents to a sort of genetic deck of cards, shuffled and dealt randomly. He also pointed out the enormous bodily difference that DNA can create. See Panel on page 4

Outgoing Senior Class President B.J. Rudell informed the SGA on Tuesday about the status of the improvement of campus lighting. According to Rudell, all of the pieces are in place except that Vice President for Business and Finance Bob Sutton has yet to sign a capital expense form needed to fund the improvements.

How minor.

Newly-elected SGA senator and student representative to the Education Policies Committee (EPC) Clair Freeman reported on the status of minors. The EPC’s proposal was presented to the faculty senate but was sent back to committee because many on the faculty want a minimum GPA requirement of 3.0 in order to pursue a minor.

According to SGA President, faculty support for a department-wide minimum GPA.

The committee web of the Gullan administration is becoming a reality. The Student Advisory Councils (SAC) will be composed of one SGA member and one non-SGA member and will act as liaisons and advisors to the directors of important areas of student life. Thus far, Dave Derrick and Sara Beth Hamlin have been named to the BLO SAC, and Buster Burk and Jill Dyer will work with Director of Auxiliary Services.

SGA reaches out

SGA Vice President War- Roberta istri SADR S ua EA Bests } Stolpen, Intern, District Attorney's Office

nis Seavers presented the findings of an ad hoc committee aimed at enhancing communication between the SGA and the student body. They found students think the SGA consists of an elite group of ineffectual members. Buford presented a list of suggestions for improvement which ranged from concrete plans like recording meetings for DCTV to long-range proposals like an SGA heist.

SGA Announcement
The deadline to apply to Committees has been extended to April 12. Applications are available in the Dean of Students Office.

WHERE YOU WORK WHEN YOU GET OUT OF COLLEGE DEPENDS ON WHAT YOU DO NOW.

Consider an INTERNSHIP in Philadelphia.

Recent Davidson participants now back on campus:

Amia Canada, Legal Intern, Defender's Association
Cara Finley, Intern, Greater Philadelphia Hotel Assoc.
Rasheedah Hasan, Legal Intern, Defender's Assoc.
Amy Hawfield, Intern, Philadelphia Geriatric Center
Anne McKinney, Intern, Women Organized Against Rape

In addition to working at their job placements, your classmates also participate in academic seminars. They gain independent living skills, experience the diversity of urban living, and develop professionally; ALL WHILE EARNING CREDIT FOR A FULL SEMESTER.

GRADUATE WITH EXPERIENCE.

For more information contact Meredith Harris, Career Center. 1227-29 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19107; tel (215) 574-9490; fax (215) 574-0563