THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1995

Morality

Philosopher Richard Garner uses anti-realist arguments

By ANDREW PRESTON
Staff Writer

Arguing against popular wisdom, a philosopher last week told a Davidson audience that morality is a useless human creation and can even be dangerous and justify evil. Richard Garner addressed the topic of his paper, “Morality: Who Needs It?” in the Morrison Room on Monday, November 13.

Garner feels that moral beliefs are false and that morality may even be a dangerous institution. Garner began his lecture with his belief that morality is a human invention and that, in fact, moral beliefs are false. He backed up this claim with the theory of anti-realism, which states that morals are not actual qualities in objects but subjective internal perceptions. If moral beliefs are not objective, then they must be false.

Garner adds that “it is dangerous to rely on an institution built on error and wishful thinking... We all want a world of peace... But morality is not going to get us there, and we probably don’t even need it.” Based on the belief that moral beliefs are false, Garner argued that morals are dangerous in that we are lying every time we use them. “When others learn we have lied, we will no longer be able to count on being believed,” he says.

Also, if morals are not based on facts, Garner argues that opposite sides of every issue could justify their beliefs based on their own set of morals. “We could rationalize discrimination by appealing to our superiority... Every argument from equality can be countered with one from liberty.”

Painting the final paw to Writing Center flourishes in inaugural semester

By JOANNA JOHNSON
Assistant News Editor

This year, students don’t only go down to the East end of Chambers basement for the psychology labs. From Sunday through Thursday, the Writing Center, located in room B-6 in Chambers basement, is open to students from 7 to 9 p.m. and also from 2 to 4 p.m. Sundays.

The Writing Center was begun this year by English professor Shireen Carroll. At the beginning of the Fall semester, Carroll advertised a new class/internship entitled Writing Pedagogy and Practice. Four students enrolled in her class, in which they were trained to become Writing Center tutors.

The four peer tutors are required to dedicate four hours a week to tutoring. The remaining hour is spent in class, where they discuss theories on writing, and ways to operate the Writing Center without breaching Davidson’s Honor Code. Initially, Carroll asked professors to submit their opinions on how much they felt tutors should help students. Writing Center tutors continually keep professors informed by sending them session evaluations. So far, Carroll says, “Faculty feedback on tutorial sessions has been quite positive.”

Carroll says she is also pleased with student interest in the Writing Center. So far, tutors have conducted 69 tutorial sessions. Thirty-four students have used the Writing Center. All years have been represented, though the majority of clients have been freshmen. “I’m delighted with student interest in the Writing Center so far,” Carroll says. “And I’m sure that as information gets out about the Center, we’ll see an increasing amount of students, including more students who are not just entering Davidson.”

Subjects for papers range from what Carroll calls “predictable” classes such as English, Humanities, philosophy, art history, and political science to the sciences, including psychology and biology. Tutors have also encountered a few Center majors writing theses. Carroll encourages students to go to the Writing Center at any stage of the writing process, even to discuss ideas. A tutor’s goal is to help the student with their writing process, not just with editing and proofreading a single paper. One professor told Carroll that a student had told his whole class that the “[Writing Center] helped me help myself.”

Carroll predicts that more students will visit the Writing Center during “crunch time” between Thanksgiving and Christmas. She suggests that students come in as early as possible, due to the fact that tutors do not have appointment schedules and sometimes there is only one tutor available.Tutor in the Center. Each tutorial session lasts for a half-hour. Carroll’s class/internship will be offered again next semester. Enough interest has already been demonstrated so that Carroll anticipates that the process of entering the class will be competitive.

Networked * from page 1
More laser printers for student printing, computers located in each dorm lounge, and a centrally located Computer Services Building.

Write for news. Call Matt. -2148.

He argues. Despite his rejection of morality, Garner does not feel that a person who lacks morality will act badly. He explains that “being immune to moral considerations need not mean being unmoved by the suffering of others.” In fact, Garner mentioned feelings such as sympathy, compassion, and kindness as a substitute for morality. In Garner’s eyes, these feelings do not need to be justified by argument but are their own motivation.

“If you care about someone, there is no problem about motivation. If you merely think it is your duty to help someone, it will always be possible to dig up some moralist excuse for not doing anything.”

Garner is currently Professor of Philosophy at Ohio State University. He earned his Ph.D. from the University of Michigan and has written such works as Beyond Morality. Garner has been known to use a wide variety of sources in his works, from Chinese philosophy to Hitler to Duran Duran.

Some action being taken on RLO Survey
By Matthew Erickson, News Editor

Chair of the Student Advisory Council (SAC) to the Director of Residence Life, Sara Beth Hamlin, reported at the SGA meeting Tuesday that some action was being taken in response to the SAC’s survey from four weeks ago. One prevalent request from the survey was for cable in dorm rooms. Hamlin said that when the campus is networked with fiber optics, it will be easier to bring cable to each room. However, Hamlin said that to wire cable into the rooms of dorms which are not being renovated is very difficult. She said that the procedure would be very cumbersome, logistically difficult, and very costly. Hamlin said RLO thought it best to wait for the campus to be networked with fiber optics which could easily bring cable to students’ rooms.

RLO has no plan yet about students’ request for more and better washers and dryers. RLO says the money is not available and students indicated that they will not pay for the machines, considering it a part of their tuition.

Many seniors’ surveys said they would like to be able to stay in their apartments past graduation. The present policy requires seniors to vacate their apartments by 5 p.m. on the day of graduation. Hamlin explained the policy is necessary for a number of factors, including timing the RA’s moving out, moving in students who will be living in the apartments for the summer, keeping the physical logistics manageable, and extra security. Also, she said RLO is worried that seniors will damage the apartments if they stay past graduation. SGA President Bill Gullan called the latter reason “crap” and “one of the most insulting things I’ve heard in my time at Davidson.” One senator pointed out that because seniors will not have checked out, they will still be responsible for any damage done to their apartments. Also, senators who worked with RLO denied that allowing seniors to stay a little longer would be a problem. Hamlin said a sub-committee would be established to address this issue.

With many seniors on staff leaving in the spring, we're looking for new blood at The Davidsonian. Give John Copenhaver a call at -6578.

DIRECTOR OF PROGRAM MINISTRIES WANTED
Large multi-staffed church seeks a full-time Director of church program ministries. Applicants must be energetic, enthusiastic, well-organized, and a people motivator. We desire to establish the most exciting fellowship programs in Salisbury. Send resumes to the attention of the Search Committee at the First United Methodist Church, 217 S. Church St, Salisbury, NC 28144.