THE DAVIDSONIAN . NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1995

JUST WASTING TIME
By Brooke BAGWELL
Staff Writer

As part of a four-part series dealing with stress, psychologist and Director of the Student Health Center Dr. David Staton
spoke on the issue of time management and procrastination to a small group on Monday night. Dr. Staton discussed symptoms
of poor time management and suggested methods for “making time.”

Staton described manners in which people approach the organization of time. He noted that the issue is a matter of
style, “getting things done in a way that works (for the individual).” He accordingly outlined three different types of people,
which he likened to animals, in pursuit of the most efficient time usage. Through audience participation, Staton called on attendants
to identify themselves with a particular animal and discover the characteristics of that particular personality type.

Dr. Staton characterized poor time management as an overwhelming state of rushing, constantly missed deadlines, and insufficient time for relaxation
and relationships. Procrastination, Dr. Staton said, was a lack of discipline and self-motivation. He related that procrastination results from the
anxiety of failure, which furthers unproductivity. To combat poor time management and prevent procrastination, Staton suggested “rules for making time:
Learning to say no, prioritizing, and setting aside time for rest.”

Procrastination is a lack of discipline and self-motivation. It results from the anxiety of failure, which furthers unproductivity.

Harry Wu to speak tonight
By MATTHEW EIRICH
News Editor

Chinese political dissident and human rights activist Harry Wu will speak tonight at 7:30 PM in Love Auditorium.

Wu is described as a crusader for human rights in China. He spent nearly two decades in prison for his
political beliefs. In 1957 he was labelled a “rightist” after answering Chairman Mao’s call for public debate during the Hundred
Flowers campaign. He was charged for the crime of questioning the Soviet invasion of Hungary. Wu was released from prison
in 1979. He moved to the United States in 1985. Soon thereafter he began a campaign to publicize the wretched
conditions of China’s labor reform system. In 1991 he returned to China, secretly filming prison conditions and unscrupulous business practices
involving prison labor. Wu has published two books, Laogai: The Chinese Gulag and his memoir, Bitter Winds.

Last summer, Wu returned to China surreptitiously with the intention of researching human rights violations. His detention by Chinese authorities
became an international cause célèbre. Wu is this year’s Wearn lecturer.

Reach out from page 1

Davidson community. The Crop Lunch on Thursday brought to the table the planet-wide problem of hunger, a major focus of
Reach Out during the regular course of the year. On Thursday afternoon the Parks and Recreation group played kickball and
other games on the Chamber’s Lawn.

Other events that took place this week were trips to the Florence Crittendon Center and the Uptown Men’s Shelter in
Charlotte. On Thursday there was a community dessert in the Chamber’s Gallery and on Wednesday Ralph de Costa Nunez, president
of Homes for the Homeless, spoke on homelessness and other pertinent issues.

According to senior Smita Donthamsetty, president of Reach Out, there was not enough publicity. “The week needed to be played
up more, though not to the point of being sensationalized like a concert,” she says. “We just wanted people to
know what was out there.” Donthamsetty thought that the information tables were the most effective aspect of the week, educating
the community.the student body on what service opportunities were available. She also thought that the Nunez lecture was “well responded
to,” but that despite the success of these two activities, there was no definitive cornerstone activity for the week. Donthamsetty
says that Reach Out, in general, is “working towards being a more cohesive body to make it easier for people
to get involved in service.” With this goal in mind, Into The Streets Week was certainly a step in the
right direction for the Davidson service program, she says, but there is always more to be done.

Project Life Bone Marrow Drive Wednesday. Go.

turer, and his visit is sponsored by the Public Lecturers Committee. A reception in Chambers Gallery will follow his lecture
Monday night.

From the Archives
Soccer history at Davidson
By Jason McMullan
Staff Writer

With both the men’s and women’s teams taking the Southern Conference titles, soccer at Davidson is hotter than ever. Soccer
first came to Davidson in 1934, when it was played as an intramural sport. The games, and the sport itself,
were given little publicity at the time. It was greatly overshadowed by nearly all other sports including intramurals. However, as
the short inaugural tournament progressed, the sport gained popularity. “In its first season on the campus, soccer has gained a
good foothold here, and future seasons should be even more successful,” reported a 1934 Davidsonian article. It gained such a
foothold, in fact, that the next year welcomed soccer as a varsity sport.

In that 1935 season, the Wildcats faced Clemson, Furman, and Duke, as well as teams from High Point and Charlotte.
With a 3-3 tie against High Point, the previous year’s state champions, the team was an instant success. The eight-game
season ended with a 3-3-2 record; the squad defeated Furman, Clemson, and the City of Charlotte. The years rolled by,
having wonderfully successful teams, and those that were not quite as good. The only interruption came with World War II,
which left an eleven-year break in intercollegiate competition. The post-war inaugural season was not quite as fruitful as the first
season; the team only netted four goals that year.

In more recent history, as the majority of students can remember, soccer success has skyrocketed. In 1992, Davidson hosted the
NCAA Division I Final Four, the biggest collegiate soccer event. That year, in fact, the team made it into the
Final Four, allowing them to play in front of a home crowd. The tournament remained at Davidson through last year;
Richmond will host this year. Last year was one of the most successful seasons for Davidson soccer, men’s and women’s.
The men finished the season as co-champions of the Southern Conference, sharing the title with Furman. The women, in the
first-ever women’s soccer season in the Conference, took the regular season Conference championship, as well as the tournament championship. This
year will not be empty of post-season play, though, even though the NCAA Final Four has moved. Davidson will host
the Southern Conference Tournament November 3-5.

Tired of getting busy signals when you use your modem? Who do you think should be responsible for planning computer
networking on campus? Administrators or students? If data, voice, and video networking issues are important to you, then talk with
consultants from Trellis Communications. They will be available for an informal “drop-in” session for students:

November 15
3:30-7:00 p.m.
Commons Dining Area

Do not miss an opportunity to voice your needs and concerns!
