The Davidsonian

ALENDA LU X X U BI ORTA LIB-ER TA:‘S

VOLUME LXXXVII TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1995 NUMBER 2

Davidson institutes first co-ed hall
After more than a year of debate, men and women find common ground
By Tim SAINTSING
Staff Writer

After almost a year of heated debate, Davidson gets its first taste of co-ed living in its sophomore housing. The first floor of Akers Residence Hall, settled beneath the trees in what is typically referred to as “Sophomore Nation,” is the site of this co-ed concept. One-half of the floor is dedicated to sophomore men and the other, separated by a doorway, to women. The situation was necessary as last year’s freshman class was the largest ever to arrive at Davidson.

“It was a real easy call for us when the housing numbers got pretty tight for men and when we needed the extra space,” says Director of Residence Life Kurt Holmes. Yet the controversy began before the arrival of the class of 1998.

World Wide Web takes us “on-line”
By Adam HICKEY
Staff Writer

This summer Davidson College erected its street sign on the information highway. The Computer Services Center (CSC) and the College Relations Office, together with the support of President Kuykendall, launched the Davidson “home page” on the World Wide Web on August 1 of this year. Response to date has met expectations and coordinators are excited about this new information resource available to Davidson students and others alike.

The World Wide Web is a decentralized group of multiple computer servers throughout the world. While it in itself is quite large, it comprises only a portion of what is known as the Internet, the worldwide network of computer systems which are, one way or another, linked together. The term “Davidson home page” refers to an interface that computer users around the world will see if they connect with Davidson’s server. It consists of several graphics, including the college logo, combined with menus allowing users to pursue the information about the college they want.

Director of College Relations Jerry Stockdale stated the goal of Davidson’s Internet connection is “to take advantage of a new medium of communication.” In his opinion, the message is the same; it is the audience that is changing and constantly growing larger. Since the program’s inception one month ago, Stockdale has worked as one of two official “Webmasters,” or Internet postmasters. Director of Networks and Systems Marcia Makl and he either respond to all e-mail requests they receive for information or forward them to someone who can.

See Web on page 4

Two years ago, the approval of co-ed housing by the SGA was denied by Will Terry, former Dean of Students. Last year the issue was revived, and two resolutions for co-ed housing were debated by the SGA. One possibility detailed joint-sex living arrangements in some of the freshmen dorms. A second possibility planned the same housing structure for sophomores. The latter choice gained more support in part because the structure of the sophomore dorms allows for separate bathrooms, separate entrances, and a door between thetwo sections. “We haven’t done anything radical with mixing rooms or sharing restrooms,” says Holmes. Liz Sale, the Resident Assistant on First Akers, agrees with Holmes’ description of the new set-up. “There is a giant wall between the two sections so it’s not really co-ed... Yes, it is different, but it is not any harder.” The 50-50 split between men and women is not proving to be any different for the second-year students living on First Akers. Tehnaz Parakh and Mary Wampler agree: “We really don’t think we’re having a different experience than what everybody else is experiencing.”

LET THEM EAT CAKE! First-year students Jamie Brown, Kerry Brown, and Jessica Montrella came in as three top winners of the annual freshman Cake Race held last week. Tired, sweaty, but smiling, they stand with their cakes as they watch their fellow classmates cross the finish line.

Brandon Clarke

Wristband Plan adds color to the Court

In its first week, new alcohol policy runs smoothly with only a few kinks

Catherine Ursery checks IDs and distributes neon bands to Rusk partiers Kelly Cunningham and Shannon Simmons.

By Bet LINDSEY Staff Writer

Last week marked the beginning of a new era on the Court: the wristband era. The term “PCC member” is official and seemingly here to stay. So how did the first week of the new policy go? The authors of the plan and students evaluate how everything went.

Implementation

This year, only those students who are willing to wear wristbands indicating their age will be admitted to Patterson Court parties. As a precondition for obtaining entry into a party with a wristband, students are required to possess a sticker on the back of their Cat cards. Those who are members of a social organization obtained them for free during the first session of drop-add last week. Independents had the same opportunity but were required to pay a $10 fee.

“Aside from students not being aware that the stickers were available, it seems to have gone fairly well,” says Director of Residence Life Kurt Holmes. “It was much better at Rusk on Wednesday night than SAE on Monday simply because we were able to work out a lot of the logistics.” PCC President Steve Shames adds, “The distribution of the stickers has been the most difficult part.” Over 80 independents have bought their stickers thus far, while Shames estimates 80 percent of the members of houses on Patterson Court have received their stickers. “Our challenge lies in getting the stickers to the remainder of the students,” says Shames. “We hope to set up regular hours in the PCC office to make them available to students.”

Student Reaction

The reactions of students is

See Neon on page 4

9-911 Davidson’s new all-purpose help number. | NEWS | 3

Katie Mac Davidson College = District of Columbia?!? OPINIONS 9

Does not mince words Katsy Chappell visits Davidson ARTS & LIVING 10

Glory days Byassee remembers Davidson’s days in the soccer Final Four. SPORTS 13