THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1995

Solidarity Week
Students and faculty discuss affirmative action in panel
By MATTHEW EIRICH
Assistant News Editor

Tuesday evening there was a panel discussion on affirmative action in the 900 Room. The panel consisted of students Latasha Jenkins and Bill Gullan, Philosophy Department Chair Dr. Lance Stell, and Assistant to the Director of Career Services Tony Perez. The discussion began with each panelist giving an opening statement; then, the panel fielded questions from the small audience.

Gullan was the first to give an opening statement, which was characterized by emphasis on the individual rather than groups. Gullan defined affirmative action as “any institutional attempt to make up for discrimination in history.” He said, “Affirmative action is an attempt to make up for history.” Gullan says the claim that all minorities deserve preferential treatment regardless of socioeconomic status is inconsistent: “Poor whites are not seen as the objects of discrimination that affluent blacks are.” Rather than creating equality through affirmative action, he says, “It’s time to help the less fortunate, regardless of the race block on an application.”

Perez jumped in next, beginning his statement by saying that in an ideal world, he would not support affirmative action but minorities would help themselves by building their own communities from within. But since this is not a perfect world, Perez believes “affirmative action is very necessary.” He cites institutional obstacles in the business world, such as the view that minorities are inferior and the “old boy network,” as stumbling blocks impeding minorities’ progress. For Perez, affirmative action is a necessary evil: “Until institutions begin to police themselves, the government is obliged to do it.”

Jenkins spoke next and defined affirmative action as “the ability of companies to actively pursue increased diversity.” She also asked the question, “Does the end justify the means?” and answered by saying affirmative action is justified because it increases diversity, which is “good.” Of diversity, Jenkins said, “Everyone has something to bring to the table.” Jenkins also asked, “Why is affirmative action an issue?” Jenkins said Americans are attacking affirmative action now because the economy is bad. A weak job market activates insecurities among the natural opponents of affirmative action.

Stell began his opening statement with a brief history of affirmative action and its goals. He said the goals were to ensure voting rights and equal access to accommodations, to provide equal access to schools and job opportunities, and to make reparations for historical injustices. Stell said he “fully supported” the original goal of affirmative action, which was a “colorblind society.” Stell believes that affirmative action has moved too far beyond those original goals: “Affirmative action has not become a dream, but a nightmare.” He said that in the current political climate, a “regime” has been created which solely monitors race. The “background premise” of affirmative action, according to Stell, is that “racial minorities need help.” This premise serves to “undermine the achievements” of minorities because affirmative action provides a “rationale to depreciate achievement.” “How to give aid without bruising pride” is the issue to address, according to Stell.

During the question and answer session, the scope of discussion was widened, and the panelists explained more fully their arguments on the subject. Perez indicted the Davidson administration for the lack of minority professors and administrators. Perez asked the rhetorical question, “Why has Davidson in its 150-year history only recently tenured its first black professor?” He said the administration did not try to create an adequate level of “comfort” for minority professors so much so that many do not want to stay. Perez said, “No, they’re not trying [to hire and retain minority professors and administrators]; they’re not.”

Stell said that Davidson wants to hire minority professors and administrators, but they cannot attract them. When the philosophy department had a vacancy to fill, none of the 300 applicants was a minority. “Davidson cannot compete for black philosophy professors,” Stell said. About the role minorities must have in creating this atmosphere, Perez said, “Not enough are sacrificing, not enough are making the first step. If everyone puts their best effort in ... we will put things right.”

AIDS activist speaks
By MARY CLARE JALONICK
News Editor

UNC Charlotte psychology professor Bob Barrett andAIDS patient Roy Shelton spoke to a small crowd of Davidson students Thursday about the effects of the deadly disease and its impacts on the homosexual community. Barrett, who has been working with AIDS patients since 1984, said that “if people on this campus came to understand AIDS, it might change the way they act sexually. [Safe sex] is a pain, and it’s going to be a pain, but we have to learn to deal with it.” Barrett also spoke about how he came to understand the disease by discovering his own sexuality. Through his work with AIDS, he realized that he was gay and left his family to focus on helping the homosexual community cope with the horrors of HIV. When Barrett’s daughter was a student at Davidson 10 years ago, he held the first public AIDS forum in Mecklenburg County in the 900 Room. At that point, only a few cases of AIDS existed in the Charlotte area; now there are more than 600. “These are the easy days,” says Barrett. “It’s a matter of time before everyone knows someone affected by the virus.” AIDS patient Roy Shelton also spoke to the group. “AIDS has made me realize how valuable the world is and how important relationships are,” he says. “We don’t need to stress out about our futures; we need to appreciate the moment—because that’s all we really have.”

Law Student from page

“He was walking toward me with a big brown rifle,” he says. Reeves is an experienced hunter familiar with guns, so he “knew immediately it was an M-1 rifle.” His initial thought was that the man walking toward him was a member of ROTC since they often carry M-1s when performing drills. But Reeves also knew that ROTC M-1s are painted white, so he was aware that something was not right. Reeves began to piece things together: “It happened so quickly. I remembered what the guy had said at the top of the street.” When they came nearer, Reeves looked into the eyes of the gunman. “He had these eyes, these really horrible looking eyes.” Reeves slammed on the brakes of his bike and slid from the right to the left side of the street. He abandoned his bike and began running when he heard the first shot. As he ran into an alley, Reeves heard four more shots behind him. Reeves was able to hide behind a large electrical unit in the alley. As he hid, “I could hear the guy walking up the street and reloading.” Reeves thinks the gunman then walked up to the entrance of the alley and started shooting up Franklin Street, which is perpendicular to the street Reeves first saw the gunman on. When Reeves heard the gunman reload, he weaved in between four or five cars parked in the alley before the gunman began shooting again. Reeves saw a group of Phi Nu sorority members on the balcony of their house and called up to them to get inside, hoping he could also. But they ran into the house before he could join them and he was still left in the alley. He next ran behind a dumpster, and a car pulled up with two men inside. When they learned what was going on, they got out of their car and hid behind the dumpster with Reeves. Reeves began to regain his composure with other people around, but the two men soon ran off, leaving him alone again. Finally, a man about 40 years old returned to his office whose backdoor was in the alley. He saw Reeves and let him in; from the office the two watched the remainder of the saga unfold. After a UNC senior tackled the gunman, Reeves returned to the street as if nothing had happened. His first thought was that he had better go to his 3:00 lab. “Nothing had sunk in,” he says. About 20 minutes into lab, the immensity of the events that afternoon finally began to dawn on him. He excused himself from lab. “I was just thinking, ‘I should be dead right now.’”

TANNING SPECIAL: 10 visits for $33.00

CONNIE AND GINA: Full Set of Nails for only $40.00 (thru February)

Located at The Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St., Cornelius
(704) 892-7030

eSculptured Nails
eFrench Manicures
ePedicures
eTanning Booth

Write for News. Call Mary Clare. -2148.