THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1994

Church and College: Are they separate? SGA decides president should be Presbyterian

By Adam Hickey Staff Writer

At the last SGA meeting on Tuesday, October 3, Senators discussed and were polled on rules which govern the religious affiliation of religion professors, Trustees, and the President. While the SGA has no power over the issue, it was President Bill Gullan’s goal to get an idea of where the Senate stands on the issue.

Currently, the Constitution of Davidson College mandates that all religion professors and Trustees be active members of a Christian church and that the President of the college be an active Presbyterian. Gullan cautiously opened the floor to debate, asking students to “limit this to as little philosophizing as possible.” He stated that he hoped that students would discuss tangibles, rather than argue theory.

During the discussion that followed, most students simply expressed their personal views or the opinions of their constituents on the issue, on which the SGA has passed three resolutions in the last two years. Several Senators seemed surprised that the school is still officially affiliated with the Presbyterian church. Feelings on the issue were sharply divided. Some, like Kelly Cunningham of the Ecumenical Council (who opposed the requirements on Trustees and Religion professors), felt the affiliation with the church to be “all pros and no cons.” Others, such as Senator Rick Onkey, were against the affiliation and all vestiges of it, calling it “close-minded,” “of a day gone by,” and “an insult to non-Christians.”

After roughly 30 minutes of discussion, Will Cowan motioned to limit debate to three minutes, to be followed by a vote. The motion passed. Senators expressed some confusion over the purpose of the vote. While Gullan stressed the informality of it, he had in the last meeting asked Senators to question peers about the policy, implying to some a more formal purpose. While some representatives thought they should simply vote their consciences, others used a pre-vote recess to caucus, aligning their votes according to a perceived distribution of student opinion.

Though discussion yielded a myriad of opinions, the vote reflected something of a consensus. The voting was done by roll call in which each senator was asked to answer the three questions being debated. As to changing the policy to allow a non-Presbyterian President, 12 Senators voted “yes,” 18 voted “no,” and four abstained. On the issues of removing the restrictions on the members of the Board of Trustees and professors of the religion department, both votes yielded equal results: 30 voted to remove the restrictions, two voted to keep them, and two abstained. Gullan and Vice President Warren Buford abstained from all three votes.

The issue is far from resolved. The results of this vote as well as the other formal resolutions passed on this subject by different bodies will be relayed to the Board of Trustees which is expected to make decisions onthe policies during their next meeting in February. “This is not the first time, nor will it be the last, that religious affiliation is debated at Davidson,” says Gullan.

OFFICER
Bill Gullan
Warren Buford
Allison Sabel
Rick Onkey
Ashely Tabb
Clair Freeman
Saad Gul
Sara Beth Hamlin
Buster Burk
Wesley Hart
Matthew Hobie
Lucy Sheman
John Bell
Connor Eldridge
Ann Harriot Fisher
Katie Sanderson
Jonathan Sipling
Michael Farley
Patricia Evans
Jenny Reinoehl
Josh Roberts
Dave Derrick
Tom Gibney
Mark Wittschen
Mary Laura Moretz
Heather Brown
Kirk Roberts
Will Cowan
Doug Newmann
Brian Luskey
Yanti Ardie
John Ballard
Brandon Clarke
John Hollan
Tim Saintsing

President: Should the requirement that the president be a member of the Presbyterian Church be removed?
Trustees: Should the requirement that trustees be required to be active members of a Christian church be removed?
Religion: Should the requirement that religion professors be required to be active members of a Christian church be removed?

Y = yes; N = no; A = abstention; NP = not present
NB: Votes reflect senators’ personal convictions, opinions of their constituents, or both.

PRESIDENT
TRUSTEES
RELIGION

Sabel wins Homecoming Queen; court gets caught in torrential downpour
By JOANNA JOHNSON
Assistant News Editor

“It was an exciting experience, but I wish the rain could have held off,” Homecoming Queen Allison Sabel said about the half-time event at Saturday’s football game.

At the game, eleven women and their escorts filed onto the stage in front of students, parents, professors, and alumni in the stands. Yet dark clouds and heavy rain attended the event too, minutes before the last representatives presented themselves to the crowd. The women representing Davidson’s three eating houses, six fraternities, Black Student Coalition, and Independents introduced themselves and their escorts by name, hometown, and major. Comprising the court were: Debbie Liverman escorted by Wes Hart from BSC, Lillian Montgomery and J.D. DuPuy representing Connor House, Julie Simmons and Carl Rooke as Independents, Laura Jefferson and Chris Harrison representing the “distinguished gentlemen” of KA, Chris Knox escorted by Kappa Sigma member Burt Arrington, Allison Sabel with Brian Cole from Phi Delta Theta, Sue Rawlings and Jeff Fuller from Figi, Jenny Rose and Eddie Gordon representing Pika, Beth Lindsay and Dave Thompson on behalf of the “Wild Women” of Rusk, Jane Stubbs and Dave Valentiner as SAE representatives, and Warner Hall member Catherine Thompson escorted by Charles Barrus.

Unfortunately, the presentations were interrupted by the downpour, and much of the crowd sought shelter from the torrents before Sabel was announced as the Homecoming Queen. Many agreed that it is impossible to predict the winner. As Allison agrees, “It is a great honor to be Homecoming Queen but everyone on the stage deserved to be elected.” She is thankful for the thrilling, yet wet victory and would like to shower thanks on Phi Delta Theta for nominating her.