12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, MARCH 20, 1995

As a complement to Women’s Month, Judy Gorman spoke and performed in the 900 Room.
Brandon Clarke

Judy Gorman: Music from the core of the earth
By GEORDIE SCHIMMEL
Staff writer

Her plane from New York was two hours late. The traffic on I-77 was thick, almost impenetrable. Nonetheless, she arrived in perfect spirits, smiling, her guitar strapped to her back. As a complement to Women’s Month, the College Union’s Women’s Issues Committee hosted singer and songwriter Judy Gorman to speak and sing in the 900 Room last Friday. At four, she spoke about women in the history of music. Later, in her concert at seven, she performed her original work and songs by other artists.

Sophomore Sara Smith described the concert as “thought-provoking,” and she said that “you couldn’t help feeling that something larger than words was being exchanged.” Indeed something was exchanged. How it was, however, is partly what makes Gorman so effective. She considers herself foremost a musician but not necessarily a female musician, and so she speaks from the broader human experience. By this, she pierces directly to the human condition, addressing men and women on equal terms.

Another aspect of her technique is audience participation. In her discussion she directly involved the students, asking relevant and intelligent questions ranging from the J. Giles Band’s “Centerfold” to Madonna’s explicit sexuality and the questions it raised. And at her concert she had the audience clapping and singing along in a sort of call and response. Very effective indeed.

Gorman became interested in women’s music history quite by chance, she says. She was reading essays from a feminist journal on a plane in Europe. One dealt with women’s relationship to singing and songwriting. That women would have a history in music fascinated her — in college she remembers professors reminding her that there were, after all, no women Bachs and no women Shakespeares. So began the search. Gorman wanted to know why she didn’t know anything about this subject. In a mingling of her thirst for answers and her natural gift of song, Judy Gorman not only began to speak about this hidden aspect of women’s heritage, but also to sing about it.

She may have discovered her perfect medium. Her voice is clear, deep, and powerful. Complementing one of her favorite musicians, Gorman said that Aretha Franklin’s voice sounded as if it came from the center of the earth, up through her feet and out of her mouth. Judy Gorman could have just as accurately described herself.

Like any artist, Gorman has of course struggled. She was almost as afraid of success as of failure. Women, she recalled from some distant, censorious voice, were not supposed to succeed. On March 17, Judy Gorman mocked all the censors and sang from the core of the earth.

Sculpt
This continued from page 10

styles of painting,” he says. Both Wyrick and Love intend to further hone their skills with graduate study at some point, but after graduation from Davidson they will both probably take some time off before reentering the classroom. Although it surfaces differently in the two shows, each artist would agree that part of the motivation behind their exhibitions is to portray, as honestly as possible, themselves in their art. For Wyrick, self-portraiture is a “confessional” process. Love's work is a matter of “letting things come to you in different ways,” ranging from studying art history to roaming thrift stores for inspiration.

If you missed these first two exhibitions, stroll by the Smith Gallery to see the next four senior art shows, which will alternate every two weeks.

The Davidsonian Arts & Living section is looking for a new movie critic. Interested? Call John or Jacob. -2148.

Peace Corps
By giving others the benefit of your education and hard-earned skills, you can also enhanceyour own career. Learn a foreign language. Gain work experience. A college education combined with Peace Corps experience produces career advancement. Additional benefits include:

@ $5,400 upon completion of service
@ Student loan cancellation/deferment
@ Graduate school opportunities

Your cultural background and skills are valuable. Use them to advance your career! Contact Peace Corps for eligibility requirements. Get your Peace Corps applications in by April 21st for late summer and fall departures. The toughest job you’ll ever love is waiting for you! Call 1-800-424-8580 for more information.

The Toughest Job You'll Ever Love.

Career Choices — Career Advancement

Crawfish, from page 10

drum, popped and slid along the bottom end. I’d never seen a washboard player before but, alas, they do exist, and this one didn’t look nearly as bored as I’d imagined a washboard player would look. (I mean, really, how interesting can sliding a spoon across a rippled piece of metal be?) The keyboardist, a dwarf, constantly switched between two keyboards in what I guessed to be a Caribbean rhythm. Okay, the guitarist didn’t move that much, but when he hit his solos, he couldn’t afford a lot of distraction. This was zydeco. The music was based on rhythm, so I'll talk about drums.

This was the first time I’d heard drums played as an instrument in the truest sense. Not only did the drummer play a crisp beat to keep everyone in time, launch into perfect solos, and keep things interesting with fills galore, but he also played with pitch. Holding one drumstick against one of the toms, he moved it back and forth along the drum head while hitting the drum with his other stick, creating all kinds of different sounds in between those dictated by the size of the drums. It was incredible.

Complementing the drums was the washboard which appeared in about half the songs. To my untrained ear, there were only a few stock rhythms to play with, although they were played flawlessly. At times, songs would break in the middle with only the drums and bass playing. During one of these interludes, everyone else picked up some form of cowbell and added to the already complex beat. Maybe that was Caribbean rhythm. The bass borrowed from reggae and funk but added impressive flourishes like harmonics and two-hand tapping. The bassist’s hands ran all over the fretboard. On top of the bass, the keyboards were sprinkled gently into the mix with sounds ranging from funked-out synthesizers to a deep organ or clavier. The accordion never took the spotlight either and served the music well by bridging verses. The guitar came to the forefront only during a couple solos, when it switched from a clean, off-beat rhythm to a soft distortion that cut through the rest of the music enough to simply be heard. At one point, the guitarist dropped out of his wah phase and switched into Hendrix’s “Voodoo Chile,” which brought some applause.

Although it may seem that something might have to take the lead and the vocals are the only thing I haven’t talked about, the music definitely did not depend on words or melody, which were kept at discrete levels at all times. Usually, it was from Terrance’s mouth that the words danced, but on occasion, the keyboardist, bassist, and drummer all added harmonies to augment the sound. The device was effective, and each of their voices held its own. The musicianship of the southwestern Louisiana band was unarguable, and no one player cared to overshadow the rest. Rarely has so much pure excitement taken the stage. I think the band was a bit disappointed that so few members of the audience were interested in dancing, or moving at all for that matter. I left the show with one question that only a person from the West would have. Just who was the old King of the Bayou?