4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1995

SGA sets out to tackle drunk driving

By ADAM HICKEY
Staff Writer

At last Tuesday’s SGA meeting, President Bill Gullan formed a committee designed to investigate and reform the tendencies of Davidson students to drive under the influence of alcohol. Gullan received inspiration for the idea after working on the administration-sponsored Alcohol Policy Review Task Force last spring. To follow up the decisions of the Task Force, Gullan then formed a committee to investigate the problem. Because of exams and other academic pressures, the committee did not become active until now, revived by a dictate from Gullan.

Gullan is specifically concerned about the tendency of students to leave campus after midnight on weeknights when Court houses may no longer serve alcohol. Gullan says he is personally aware of instances where students have chosen to leave campus for bars and taverns which, according to North Carolina state law, may serve until 2 a.m. Gullan recommended to the Board of Trustees last spring that the campus rule be changed, but the Trustees voted not to extend the serving time.

With that option blocked, Gullan now hopes to amend other campus policies and practices in an effort to curb the problem. “The first order of business for this committee... [is] to find out how much drunk driving occurs at Davidson College,” says Gullan. “From there we’re going to analyze where and when it does occur. Then we can find where the deficiencies causing this are.”

Gullan hopes the investigation alone will raise awareness to the point that some students will of their own volition choose to refrain from driving while intoxicated. After the committee determines the scope of the problem, it will recommend possible reforms such as offering on-campus activities at later hours and expanding the rides committee in an effort either to keep students on campus or transport them safely. The committee will meet for the first time this week. “The recommendations will be out by the time my term ends,” Gullan says, though he is unsure if the committee can affect change as quickly.

The committee is composed of seven students who represent various classes and social affiliations. All committee members volunteered during Tuesday’s meeting and are elected officials of the SGA. Any student, however, who would like to participate is welcome to join the committee, which will be chaired by Gullan. Though he hopes the committee will remedy the problem, Gullan says, “The fact that people drive drunk is just a fact of life we have to live with.”

John Blake runs. See football story on page 14.

Rob Kosicki

New Age HAIR DESIGNERS
A full service salon for men and women

Welcome back students! Come in for any of our many services:
cuts * perms * hair-coloring * manicures * pedicures

Right now, Davidson students and faculty receive 10% off all retail items with a school I.D. We now carry a new line of retail products by Abba. Also select from a line of Paul Mitchell, Matrix, Logic, Nexxus, Sebastian, and Goldwell hairstyling products.

Southlake Shopping Center
Next to Harris Teeter
Cornelius, NC
892-3067

New committee works for campus beautification

By AMY WHITMIRE
Staff Writer

At the SGA meeting last Tuesday, SGA President Bill Gullan formed a new Beautification Committee in order to find ways to make the campus look more aesthetically appealing. Talking with former Dean Rusk Program Director Jack Perry inspired SGA President Bill Gullan to do something about the appearance of the campus. According to Gullan, Perry said the cross-country trails are “abysmal.” Gullan admitted that...he couldn’t speak to the state of the trails, but he said he was inspired to look for other areas to improve. The committee plans to study, for the purpose of recommending to the Physical Plant, the trustees, and the administration, problem areas of the campus and find locations that can be improved. Committee members might also lead an effort to beautify the campus by picking up trash, particularly on the Court after weekend parties. Matthew Hobbie, a sophomore SGA senator who is a member of the new committee, stated: “I think the committee is important. I am personally annoyed by the amount of trash I see around campus and look forward to doing anything I can to help.” Gullan, the committee chair, announced plans to find out students’ opinions about the beautification efforts in a future meeting.

Dive. from page 1

experience and many do not hold PhDs, they are paid less. These recent hiring trends enacted to compensate for over-enrollment may have negatively affected Davidson’s ranking in the areas which comprise the “Faculty Resources” category, Williams speculated. However, Williams also said that “the faculty have gotten good raises” over the last ten years. “We would like to do better in the area of faculty compensation, but there certainly wasn’t a drop,” he said. Williams also stated that “virtually 100 percent” of full-time faculty hold PhDs. “We are delighted to be among the top colleges,” Williams said. “We think we are doing a very good job.”

The other category in which Davidson dropped is “Financial Resources.” According to Kelton, this category is divided between a measure of educational program expenditures per student and other factors. Under the former category are the areas: instruction, student services, academic support, and administration. The latter includes: research, scholarships, public service, operations/management. Kelton said that when dealing with statistics such as those used by USNWR “a small difference [in numbers] can make a huge difference in ranking.” Kelton said the report can be a springboard for the administration to examine areas which may need improvement. “As we analyze this, we may find there are some areas we should be paying attention to. We will have to look at how other schools have changed in relation to how we have changed,” he said.

Kelton speculated that Davidson’s lower ranking in the category of “Financial Resources” may not be the result of a decrease in spending on its part. It may be, said Kelton, that other schools have had to spend more money, as their operating costs rise significantly because of their location. To operate a school in New York City simply is more expensive than to operate one in a rural area, Kelton said. Kelton cited this as one of the reasons many schools have “higher annual budgets” than Davidson. Davidson students aren’t receiving an inferior education this year as compared to last. “This doesn’t reflect any negative change in the quality of a Davidson education,” said Kelton. In fact, in a survey of college presidents, provosts, and deans of admissions asking which schools have “an unusually strong commitment to undergraduate teaching” (from USNWR) Davidson ranks tenth behind schools such as Carleton and Swarthmore, numbers one and two respectively. President Kuykendall said, “It’s a pleasant thing to be included in such good company.”

The rankings for every school will appear in the September 18 edition of U.S. News and World Report.

The Davidsonian