OPINIONS. MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1995

How about a little pride?
Eric Sapp

I couldn’t believe last week’s Opinions section. It apparently was “Trash Davidson Week.” According to some of the articles last week, we go to a run-of-the-mill, KKK-dominated, no-name school that doesn’t offer us anything. Has anyone looked around them lately?

First of all, anyone with a double first name like Billy-Joe would know about Davidson. I'll admit that Davidson may not be as well known in the North as some other schools, but in the South, Davidson will bring more “oohs” and “ahhs” than even an Amherst. Secondly, I was a little offended by the “prayer” last week. Racism exists everywhere, and I’m not saying that Davidson is exempt from that misfortune, but most of us “whites” don’t go put on hoods and dance around burning crosses every weekend, either. I believe that it’s going a little too far to say that there are only a “few people who are mature enough to view others as individuals.” As one of the many whites on campus who see blacks as Americans, period — not African-Americans or Dark-Americans or whatever the next PC name will be — I would greatly appreciate not being grouped with people who are too dense to look past a person’s skin color (black or white).

So now that all that is out of the way, let’s take a little closer look at Davidson and what it really has to offer. I’ll admit that what you learn in school is definitely not the only thing a school has to offer. But it is pretty damn important. Maybe Davidson isn’t doing its job if its students think that its sole purpose is to look good on their resume. Davidson is clearly one of, if not the hardest, colleges in the country. If anyone has friends at other schools (yes, even the Ivys), they know that we work a lot harder than they do. It would be almost impossible to graduate from Davidson and not be able to write well (just kidding). But seriously, Davidson makes writers and thinkers out of all its students, and that is a major advantage in the job market. If people are totally honest with themselves, they will admit that Davidson is not a total slouch when it comes to reputation. We even have a good football team this year!

When you think about it though, what people really get out of college (and this is where we have all the others licked) is not what the square root of 356 is but what they learn about themselves and the kind of person they end up becoming. Our Honor Code is one of those intangibles U.S. News overlooks. Davidson students trust one another. Do you think people leave their doors unlocked at Harvard? At Swarthmore, students sabotage each other’s projects. Can you even imagine that happening here? Look around you. This is a beautiful campus. You can walk home alone at two in the morning without a care. We have good facilities. We have great professors — wonderful professors in fact (I hope they are all reading this). We’re in a small town but only a hop, skip, and a jump away from Charlotte. We are truly lucky.

So next time you walk down the street and someone you’ve never met smiles and says “hi,” ask yourself if there really is anything better than being a Wildcat.

Katie McKelvie

Excuse me?!
Britton Taylor

I’m a bit peeved about a few things I’ve witnessed in the last week, and I’ve got to say something. So watch out; this may get nasty.

First of all, did anyone else notice the pep rally/Lunar Luau mascot display? If not, the title of last week’s Lunar Luau article (“Really Gets ‘Em Off”) pretty much sums it up. Basically, for those of you that weren't there (every upperclassman), the skit between the three mascots involved the two male cats gyrating around the female cat. First, our Miss Kitty coyly dismissed the advances of the two male, aptly-named “Wildcats.” Then she hopped up, evidently quitting her game of hard-to-get. One of the guys placed the tail of Miss Kitty between his legs and both showed off their athletic prowess, so to speak. Then, the male cats carried her off as she flailed flirtatiously. WHAT? The point would be... School spirit? Go Davidson? Good luck Women’s Soccer! Don’t let anyone carry you off the field!

I talked to a few people (both sexes) who thought this pantomimed mating ritual was downright bizarre. Later in the week, I received a friendly flyer under my door for the senior party out at the Holiday Inn on Thursday night. I didn’t think much of it until I saw the “family fun” and then “Bud Light Girls” advertised at the bottom of the page. EXCUSEME? Aren’t those mutually exclusive phenomena? Can I please go take the fam out and watch people dressed in silver flaunt around hawking beer in mini-outfits all night? Please? I’m worried for those Bud Light Girls who eventually feel it’s time to move on to a different job. What will their resumés say? “Anheuser-Busch Corporation: Bud Light Girl. Duties included shaking my booty to promote consumption of alcohol”? That has a nice ring to it.

The last straw was the article “Every Bit of Flab’s Bad for Health” in Thursday’s Charlotte Observer, subtitled “Thin’s in, even love handles are out in new study of women.” This article cites a study out of Harvard Medical School which has concluded that for women at 5’5”, “anything over 119 is too much.” Great. Just what every post-pubescent woman needs. Now let me say one thing. Personally, I am nowhere near 119 pounds, and I doubt many people would say I’m risking my health because I’m too fat. No way, Harvard people. This study is going to have some serious repercussions on young women, especially college students. It’s a good thing that eating disorders are really rare here on campus. Whatever. It’s hard to believe that these doctors’ findings are valid. Oh well. Eat up ladies and Bud Light Girls, there’s no point. We’re all dying young.

Well, I’m never of the opinion that we're going to Hell in a hand basket (although I do like the imagery), but the past few days have been a little disheartening. Can you believe this past week? I didn’t think so. Gyrating school mascots, gyrating beer mascots, and anorexic doctors. Hopefully the world will learn its lesson and shape up before I have to write my next article. If not, watch out.

Meaning of life

A certain friend of mine maintains the perpetual desire to discover the meaning of life through daily inquiry of all those unwise enough to stick around for petty conversation. “Hi, I’m Buster,” he boasts. “So what do you think the meaning of life is?” Most stand perplexed and offer a most thoughtful suggestion: I don’t really know ranking as the most common reply. Buster, dismayed with the subject’s inability to contrive the correct answer, shifts his dialogue to more trivial issues, but the unanswered question continues to torment his delving conscience.

Today Buster forced me to participate in his reign of terror upon the innocent. Sitting on the bench directly in front of Akers, we confronted several unsuspecting individuals. We received several typical answers, including sublime happiness, people, joy, satisfaction, etc. One response was particularly amusing in that the surveyed student sided with the former Surgeon General by hailing the beauty of masturbation (no names mentioned here for obvious reasons). While he seemed convinced, I cringed at the thought of a society preoccupied with masturbation, for such would certainly mean the extinction of our species. This tragic outcome would logically eliminate all forms of masturbation as a possible meaning of life. Therefore we probed deeper, desperately searching our souls for a solution to this unbreakable taboo.

Obviously, I remained dumbfounded, but my intense stupidity eventually triggered what may be the answer to all of our questions. Suddenly it all became so simple, so easy, so logical. Do you really think God sits wherever He sits pondering the meaning of life? I doubt it; He is too busy creating man and talking to his angels. In other words, He has better things to do. Why then would He place man on the earth to secure an answer to this question when He can’t even figure it out himself? Heck, He has got to be the smartest guy around. Why should He waste his time on such an idle pursuit? Between Adam and Eve and that pesky serpent, God was always way too busy to concern Himself with laying around all day thinking about life and its meaning.

The real story behind this issue dwells in the stupidity of philosophy. Somewhere (a long time ago) somebody thought it would be a good idea to propose the following question: “Why are we alive?” The ensuing year another intelligent person asked a similar but more provocative question: “For what purpose are we populated on this earth?” These two characters undoubtedly provided the roots for today’s dilemma. It is a question we are almost forced to ask, but it is not one that can be answered. The quest for the meaning of life is an idealistic, abstract impossibility. It’s a question we expect only the Almighty to know, when in fact He doesn’t have any idea what we are asking because we conjured up the idea in the first place.

If you’ve come up with your own meaning of life, that is really great. If it’s masturbation ... keep it to yourself.