MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1995

Soccer team closes season in a tough loss
By Matt Pitzer
Sports Editor

The Davidson men’s soccer team’s season came to a smashing halt Sunday afternoon on a cold playing field in Bowling
Green, Ohio. Playing in extremely cold conditions, Bowling Green beat the Wildcats 3-1 in an NCAA tournament play-in game. With
temperatures at the start of the game hovering below 30 and the wind swirling at 10-15 mph, the Falcons froze
Davidson’s offense, limiting the Wildcats to only three shots. And just one of those MEN’S SOCCER shots - Nick Troiano’s
tying goal nine minutes into the second half - was on goal.

Football ends losing streak season
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Staff writer

Davidson and Bridgewater entered Saturday’s sopping season finale with hopes of ending losing streaks of eight and 23 games, respectively.
FOOTBALL As the game turned out, both concluded their skids of futility without even collecting a win, as an anticlimactic
7-7 stalemate served as a disappointing finish to a disappointing season. Pounding, incessant rain and gusting wind transformed Richardson Field
into a virtually unplayable quagmire. The sloppy turf impeded both squads’ offensive attacks, and each unit could only produce a
single touchdown. Bridgewater (0-9-1) compiled 91 yards on the ground and 56 through the air for a meager sum of
147, while Davidson (1-8-1) fared only slightly better, netting 87 rushing and 96 passing for a total of 183. The
two teams combined for more punts (17) than first downs (15).

Bridgewater took advantage of a John Blake fumble to strike first, as Eagles quarterback Chad Rowland lofted a 16-yard touchdown
toss to split end Mickey Hamilton in the left corner of the end zone 31 seconds before intermission. A Michael
Padgett extra point gave winless Bridgewater a rare 7-0 lead at halftime. Davidson responded relatively quickly with seven minutes 35
seconds remaining in the third quarter when freshman quarterback Clif Henry found a gaping hole in the Bridgewater defense and
sloshed his way 48 yards to the waterlogged promise land. Dunn Mileham’s kick-after tied the game for good. “I just
turned it up and got a great block from Pete Perri and took it into the end zone,” Henry said.

But that would be the end of the limited scoring in the soggy contest that marked the epilogue of the
magnificent careers of senior captains James Cassidy, Bo Bartholomew, and Will Robinson. Dominant defensive lineman Cassidy finished an 11.5-sack season
and a 24-sack career, including a 12-tackle, one-sack performance on Saturday. Bartholomew, like Cassidy, added 12 takedowns and a sack,
while Robinson contributed 11. “We’re disappointed overall with how the season went, but we had eight great seniors playing,” said
Robinson, who led the team in interceptions. “We had some down moments this year, but they have a lot of
talent here, more talent than they’ve ever had, and the best coaching staff I’ve ever been around. And with that
kind of

Joe Burch scored twice for Bowling Green after the 70th minute. Dave Kind tallied the Falcons' first goal in the
first half. The Falcons clearly had an advantage playing in the conditions, which included some snow around the field. “We
dug a deep, deep hole,” Wildcats coach Charlie Slagle said. “We had the wind in the first half. I’ve been
working real hard to get the kids to adjust to this kind of climate and the wind. We practiced (early)
Friday morning before we left and then practiced yesterday in the wind. “My big worry was that we were going
to come outand try to adjust to the elements and just go through the motions in the first half, and
we did. I’m glad it was only 1-0. The kids came back and played well in the second half. But
BG played a great 90 minutes. They have a lot of stars.”

The Wildcats (12-11-1) reached Sunday’s play-in game by beating Furman 1-0 the previous week on a Robert Clarke goal to
win the Southern Conference tournament. But on this day, Clarke, the conference’s leading scorer this season, was silenced, not even
taking a shot. And so ended the Wildcats' season and the seniors’ college careers on a cold field in the
middle of Ohio.

Rob Kosicki

Head coach Tim Landis tries to find a strategy to beat Bridgewater Saturday in a rainstorm. “I wish I could
be here for a couple more years,” he said. Added coach Tim Landis, “We’ve got some maturing to do and
we need to get bigger and stronger in the offseason in the weight room, and we need to continue to
develop our minds and our intensity towards the game.” With this type of offseason regimen and a strong recruiting class
like this year’s, Davidson football seems pointed in the right direction. And hopefully, these procedures will be rewarded with more
wins next fall.

As Robinson conducted his last interview in Davidson’s red and black, he said, “Twenty years from now, we may not
remember the wins and losses. We want to win, but what’s important is the kind of hard work and effort
we gave each other, and the fact that, on this team, we’ve got 72 guys who’ve always got each other’s
backs.”

Women’s basketball begins season with victory

By Kristy Forp
Staff Writer

Women’s basketball started out with a bang this season, defeating Fort Bragg 83-64 Sunday in the team's first scrimmage of
the year. With a number of different combinations and substitutions, scoring was evenly dispersed among many players. Freshmen Kerry and
Jamie Brown dominated play in their first college appearances. Freshman Jessica Montrella, despite foul trouble, made an impressive appearance as
well.

WOMEN’S BASKETBALL

The team has been practicing since Oct. 15 and has been led by four seniors who are expected to be
quite visible this season. Kristen Ferrucci ended the season last year third in the country and first in the conference
in field goal percentage. She has been selected preseason all-conference. Molly Burke has worked on her game and is expected
to be more of an outside threat this season. Tonya Sharpe and Maggie Young continue to be three-point threats.

Depth will be one of the Wildcats' weapons this season. The team has several juniors and sophomores with college playing
experience. Carolyn Kirsch was also selected preseason all-conference and with her strength inside should help out greatly in rebounding. Monica
Winter and Elizabeth DuBose will continue to split time at the point guard position. Amy Scalcucci was the most consistent
three-point shooter last season and is expected to be a continued outside threat. Daniele Mall continues to be highly versatile
because she can play both inside and out. Both Jenny Vanlerberghe and Jennifer Sandborne have come back stronger and in
better shape. Sophomore Carrie Sloan and freshman Nora Kaizer walked on this season and are expected to add quality relief
time. Montrella and the Brown twins are versatile in that they can all play three positions and can be moved
around to suit the opponent.

The team has a rough schedule early on, including tournaments in California and Pittsburgh. Their first game is Nov. 24
and they start conference play on Jan. 4 at Furman.
