THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MAY 1, 1995 5

Business VP Bob Sutton ‘54 retires

By Mary Laura Moretz
Staff writer

After giving Davidson almost a decade of his management and financial expertise, Vice President of Business and Finance Bob Sutton is ready to retire — again.

He retired for the first time when he left the accounting firm of Peat Marwick, Mitchell & Co. after 28 years. Instead of truly retiring, however, Sutton heeded the call of Davidson. In a recent article in the Davidson Journal, Sutton was quoted as saying, “I had a debt to this place.” By now, he has more than paid that debt. In Sutton’s tenure at Davidson, the endowment portfolio has grown from $56 million to $134 million. Under Sutton, Davidson has ranked as high as 39th in endowment returns according to the National Association of College and University Business Officers (NACUBO) survey of institutions. Furthermore, Davidson’s educational and general budget has more than doubled from $15.65 million in 1985-86 to $37.8 million for next fiscal year.

Sutton has also made great strides in the economic development of the Davidson community. He helped develop the McConnell Neighborhood, an affordable in-town housing community for Davidson faculty and staff. He organized Davidson’s purchase and future development of 34 acres of land at the I-77 interchange — a move that will improve the appearance of the town’s entrance and provide rental income to the endowment in coming years.

Sutton foresees further growth for Davidson in coming years. “We are among the best and have a national reputation,” he says, “and should expect to do things right and do things of the highest quality.”

Courtesy of College Relations

Source: Spring 1995 issue of the Davidson Journal

Bob Sutton smiles in his office, knowing retirement is just around the corner.

Julie Timmons sits under a tree and ponders what life will be like next year when she’s a senior.

Congrats

from page 1

as the winner of the ODK teaching award, and the audience gave Perry a standing ovation.

What did seniors think of this year’s convocation? “It was way too long,” says senior Linn Dukes. “Also, I don’t like putting on the cap and gown. I’m not ready to graduate!”

Some seniors did not attend the ceremony, either sleeping in as Gullan suggested or avoiding the reality of May 21 commencement by keeping themselves in the present.

“I had a date function on Friday, so I went to buy a belt,” says one senior who did not wish to be identified.

Convocation gave seniors the chance to see themselves both as Davidson students and as alumni-to-be, easing the transition from April 26 to May 21.

What follows is a list of the violations and sanctions from the cases heard by the Judicial Committee during the 1994-1995 academic year. All of the violations refer to headings of specific sections of the Code of Responsibility.

FALL

Misconduct which affects the rights of persons and misconduct which affects the property or rights of persons: Letter of apology, community service.

Misconduct which affects the rights of persons and misconduct which affects the property or rights of persons: Letter of apology, community service.

Firearms and explosives: Warning.

Misconduct which affects the property or rights of persons: Restitution.

Misconduct which affects the property or rights of persons: Community service.

Misconduct which affects the property or rights of persons: Restitution, counseling.

Misconduct which affects the property or rights of persons: Letter of apology, community service.

Misconduct which affects the rights of persons and misconduct which affects the property or rights of persons: Letter of apology, community service, social probation.

Misconduct which affects the rights of persons: Letter of apology, community service, social probation.

Misconduct which affects the rights of persons: Letter of apology, social probation.

Misconduct which affects the rights of persons: Letter of apology, social probation, counseling.

SPRING

Misconduct which affects the rights of persons: Restitution, community service.

Social responsibility, misconduct which affects the property or rights of persons, and residence hall life: Community service.

Social responsibility, misconduct which affects the property or rights of persons, and residence hall life: Community service.

Social responsibility, alcoholic beverages, and residence hall life: Letter of apology, community service.

Social responsibility, alcoholic beverages, and residence hall life: Letter of apology, community service.

Misconduct which affects the property or rights of persons: Letter of apology, censure.

Misconduct which affects the property or rights of persons and alcoholic beverages: Restitution, community service, and counseling.

Social responsibility and misconduct which affects the property or rights of persons: Letter of apology, restitution, social probation.

Social responsibility and misconduct which affects the property or rights of persons: Letter of apology, restitution, social probation.

Social responsibility and misconduct which affects the property or rights of persons: Letter of apology.

Social responsibility and misconduct which affects the property or rights of persons: Letter of apology.

Let’s Try our new Dark Chocolate Fondue

A unique culinary experience of fruity wines and delectable entrees. Start with creamy melted cheese fondues. Fondue flavored Chicken, tender Filet Mignon, Teriyaki Marinated Sirloin and Seafood with a variety of tasty sauces. Top off the event with a mouth-watering chocolate fondue dessert!

Reservations Suggested. 901 South Kings Drive 334-4400 Open every night from 5:00 p.m.