THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, MARCH 20, 1995 11

The Tao Comes to Davidson

The man and his poetry: Dr. Gill Holland’s new book

By ALEX CRUMBLEY
Editor emeritus

When I started to review Gill Holland’s latest offering, *The Tao Comes to Davidson*, I was tempted to write as much about the man as his poetry. This is not usually the custom, or even good protocol in writing a book review, but as I read the book I realized that I could indulge myself with a clear conscience. The poems are so full of the charm and wit we know to be Dr. Holland, it would be foolish to ignore the personality so visible on campus as a means of describing them.

If you don’t know Dr. Holland, you should. He is the white-bearded, rosy-cheeked, perennially smiling English professor who tips his hat to people as he walks across campus and frequents the library more than most librarians. His laugh resounds from one end of Chambers to the other, and he refers to students only by last name. Anyone who has had a class with Dr. Holland knows at least one new vocabulary word forever after — “gobbet.” The man sits in his desk in a circle with all the other students, and, while discussing Wordsworth, Milton, or Li Po, also discusses a deer that was seen running down Main Street, a trip his son took to Europe, or a Carl Orff symphony. These bits of interesting information, literary or otherwise, he calls “gobbets,” and they enrich the vocabulary of the English student far beyond a list of literary terms, authors, and titles. An effective teaching style, and his very own.

Poets struggle to find a distinct style to call their own. For Holland, uniqueness seems to come as naturally as engaging conversation. In a word, many of the poems in this collection can be called gobbets. He writes about his second dog Fritz, a New York City marathon, and the Miami riots. A couple of titles might help to give a sense of the many paths Holland’s mind can take at once: “Ode to the New Sports Complex Parking Lot during a Big Snow in Red Clay Country on the Semicentennial of the Rape of Nanking after the Visit of the Blue Crane.” Here’s another: “Profound Gondola, or The Band was Playing as the Titanic Went Down, April 14, 1912: A Political Allegory for ‘92, with Echoes of a Visit to Harry’s Bar Opposite the Old Paris Opera House with Gill.” Enough said.

Holland has a knack for inventive language and description. Describing Davidson after a snow, he writes, “If the moon is cheese, red clay and creamed cheese is / our pooked moonscape.” While Holland’s vocabulary is challenging, even quirky at times, he also takes some different risks, employing words unusual in their sheer plainness. In “Sitting Up at Night and Seeing a Mouse in the Kitchen,” he describes a mouse as, you guessed it, “mousy.”

As the book’s title suggests, Holland celebrates his sense of place at Davidson with several poems about the college and its environs.“An Old Soccer Prophet Wakes Up In Mecklenburg Red Clay, Fall 1992,” a spirited tribute to Davidson’s championship soccer season, “Dogwood Easter in N.C.,” and “Remembering the One and Only C. Shaw Smith” are among the poems about Davidson places and people. It is hard to say that there’s any one thing Holland is going for in this collection. The themes and devices he employs are as diverse as his vocabulary. It is not a book for the easily daunted—as some of his more cryptic poems require some serious digestion time before you can figure them out. Also by Holland are Pocahontas and the Drunken Waiter and Keep an Eye on South Mountain: Translations of Chinese Poetry. The Tao Comes to Davidson is published by Charlotte’s Briarpatch Press and is available in the college bookstore.

GET READY FOR YOUR FORMALS AT... THE DUCHESS!
- Sculptured Nails
- French Manicures
- Pedicures
- Tanning Booth

Located at The Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St., Cornelius, NC 28031
(704) 892-7030
Tuesday - Saturday

A picture appeared in the February 20 issue of The Davidsonian which implied that Alex Crumbley had passed out from drinking imported beers. The caption was meant as a joke and was not, in fact, true.

A quick gobbet from the mind of Holland. Far and away my favorite poem in the book, “Sweet Basil in the Garden” is exemplary of the wit, language, and hint of local color that make Holland’s book delightful. The poem is short and it would be a shame for anyone to miss it. So here it is.

Sweet Basil in the Garden

Dr. G— works the wife’s herb garden in a jock strap.
Wants to go naked he says, way out there on the edge of the woods,
but might snap off daddy’s dewlaps with the garden shears.
There he goes now out of the college library all dressed in an armful of seven-dayers.
Who says he’s not the surest prince around?
Old Dr. G— serves the deepest martini in town
and the missus calls him O Sweet Basil, my nuddling naturist.

I'm not sure to whom “Dr. G—” refers, but we can all browse through directories and try to figure it out. Or could it stand for Gill? Hmmmm...

AmeriCorps
CHANGE YOUR LIFE.

WHAT IS AMERICORPS*VISTA?
As part of the new domestic Peace Corps, AmeriCorps*VISTA Members spend a year putting their skills to work full-time, in communities around the corner or around the country. AmeriCorps*VISTA Members receive:
- Living expenses
- $4725 toward existing student loans or future tuition costs

Please call for more information and an application:
1-800-94-ACORPS
1-800-942-2677

AMERICORPS*VISTA IS HERE...ON CAMPUS
MARCH 23, 1995
6 pm
GREY COLLEGE UNION
BIG SCREEN ROOM

CHANGE YOUR COUNTRY.
We've heard enough about what’s wrong with our communities. Now it’s time to get things done.

WITH AMERICORPS*VISTA, YOU’RE PART OF A COMMUNITY—HELPING NEIGHBORS IN NEED TO:
- Turn gang battlegrounds into kids’ playgrounds.
- Teach adults to read—and pass on the love of learning.
- Help start local businesses—and give workers new skills.
- Restore an elementary school to excellence.
- Immunize infants.

Get things done.