XY THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MAY 1, 1995

Dr. Nancy Fairley and junior Hedy Moolenaar work together on a project. Courtesy of College Relations

Fairley receives tenure
Director of ethnic studies program becomes first tenured African-American at Davidson
By Amy Whitmire
Staff writer

Nancy Fairley, a professor of anthropology and sociology and the director of the ethnic studies program, has become Davidson’s first African-American faculty member to receive tenure.

Fairley began the ethnic studies program after receiving faculty approval in March of 1994. The 1994-95 school year has been the program’s first year. The program offers an ethnic studies concentration, for which students complete six approved courses and a related hands-on experience project. It also offers a lecture series and co-sponsors different campus events. Eleven students have already registered to complete a concentration in ethnic studies, and one member of the class of 1995, Cat Grimmell, will be Davidson’s first graduate with a concentration in ethnic studies.

Fairley feels that the ethnic studies program makes a crucial contribution to diversity at Davidson. “I don’t think a commitment to diversity can depend on the number of individual students who come from diverse cultures,” she says. “We must diversify curriculum and cultural intellectual experiences outside the classroom as well.”

Fairley has also contributed greatly to Davidson’s anthropology department. Because she received her undergraduate degree from the University of Ghana and completed her doctoral dissertation in Zaire, she brings a unique perspective to the school. Recently, Fairley has been researching African-Americans in the United States and has begun studying “ancestor dreams” in the Carolinas. She has also created a new course entitled “Art, Society, and Culture” which she will teach for the first time next semester.

Fairley is working now to create a Davidson summer study program at the University of Ghana. She, along with some Davidson administrators, faculty, and students, hopes to present this proposal to the faculty in 1995-96. This international experience would offer students a new perspective on ethnic relations and expose them to a different and more egalitarian perception of life. Fairley feels that the opportunity to study in Africa is important, especially considering America’s African heritage. She hopes that the program might bring students a “new respect for humanity.”

When asked what she likes most about Davidson, Fairley stated that she liked the opportunity at Davidson of “getting to know one’s students and colleagues. Davidson has small classes, and its students in general are well-prepared for college. Davidson has resources for both students and faculty, and it has both a high level of commitment to its students and funds to support that level of education.”

Athletic scholarships on the rise
Holland believes increased funding will make Davidson athletics more competitive
By Joanna Johnson
Staff writer

New attention has been focused on fundraising for athletic scholarships, as top recruits are accepting better financial aid packages at other institutions. The Davidson Athletic Foundation hopes to be able to provide more merit-based scholarships, both named and unnamed, to complement financial aid packages. The scholarships range from $3,000 to $6,000 each, enough to lessen the gap which has caused top recruits to accept offers from competitive Ivy League schools instead of Davidson.

Terry Holland, Director of Athletics, says, “We need the flexibility to offer better financial aid packages than our competitors.” The athletic department is funded in part by the Davidson Athletic Foundation. The foundation receives a portion of the school’s total budget, which has been as much as 9.6% in recent years. This year, the portion was capped at 9.2%, resulting in a cut of $600,000. The Athletic Foundation is now campaigning to raise this needed support. Dubbed “The $600,000 Plan,” the campaign has already raised $350,000 for athletic scholarships. Because of this, 15 additional athletes were awarded non-need based aid this year, bringing the total percentage of athletic scholarship recipients to 20%. The remaining $250,000 will be raised from Athletic Foundation contributors and from named scholarships. With the help of Institutional Advancement and Development Offices, the athletic department will continually tryto target those alumni who may have a special interest in supporting athletics. Already, Terry Holland states, “Donors are recognizing the great value of scholarships for outstanding student-athletes.” Donors have traditionally supported men’s and women’s tennis and soccer more than other sports. The athletic department “would like to see the same support for all of the 20 varsity sports teams, with the exception of football, which is prohibited by conference regulations to use unnamed scholarship money.” The athletic department will try to be equitable with the new unnamed scholarship money received. Holland also insists on distributing the scholarship money with gender equity in mind, saying, “We have made every effort to support women’s athletics just as faithfully as the men’s teams.” Currently, women’s sports receive slightly over half of the scholarship money. Jim Richards, Director of the new scholarship money, is crucial in helping the college attract student-athletes who will enhance the character and integrity of Davidson. Davidson is set apart from other small liberal arts colleges in part because of outstanding academics coupled with Division I sports. Richards says, “Without Division I sports, what will separate Davidson from an Amherst or a Williams?”

Court from page 1

“explore our options of how to finance it [risk management].” The task force’s first meeting was the Wednesday after Easter, and last Tuesday the plan, which was Coonley’s, was adopted by a unanimous vote by all eight members present. The task force was comprised of nine members, including senior independent senator Jonathan Orr and Political Science Professor Mary Thornberry. Another independent was invited to join the task force but declined because of schedule conflicts. The task force assumed that risk management costs for next year will be $22,000, approximately what this year’s cost was. The Dean of Students’ Office will be returning $500 of users’ fees to each house which will be put toward risk management and amounts to $5,000. The task force expects about 200 independents to become “Court members,” making their contribution to risk management $4,000. The remaining $13,000 will come from students presently affiliated with a house and from pledges in the spring. If 200 independents do not opt into the plan, freshmen may be asked to pay $10 in their first semester. If there is a budget surplus at the end of next year, the funds will be recycled back into the risk management fund. Shames says that house and Court members will receive stickers to put on their IDs without which no one will be able to get into parties. House members will receive the stickers from their houses, but Shames has not decided how independents will get their stickers. He speculates it may be at registration. Coonley thinks this is a fair and affordable plan. He points out that the cost for an independent is $0.67 per week, “the cost of one coke from a soda machine.” Orr, the sole independent on the task force, is very satisfied with the plan. He describes the task force sessions as “very convivial. Everybody was very fair. We were looking for the most fair option possible, and I think we have that.” When the first plan was announced nearly a month ago, Orr explains that he had some objections. “My problem was that nobody asked the independents. To leave the independents out is to undermine [the open social scene].” Rather than limit independents’ presence and influence on the Court, Orr thinks, “[the plan] will be unifying on campus... We're [independents] paying for our share... to make sure the parties are safe. It will make the independents feel like they are involved.” At last night’s meeting, Coonley formally introduced the plan before the Council for adoption. Orr also attended the meeting to officially represent independents’ interests.

Note: The Davidson Journal contributed to this article.

Last Chance, People...

The 1995 Quips and Cranks staff needs some pretty faces to decorate the annual. Submit Pictures Now. Also, call if you are interested in writing an article at x2251. MAKE SURE YOU ARE INCLUDED!!!

Leave pictures at Union Desk, Word!