12: THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1994

Africa Week in review

Akara (From Nigeria - often eaten with sweetened custard)

1 cup dried black-eyed peas
1/3 to 1/2 cup water
1/3 cup finely-chopped onions
1/4 teaspoon black pepper
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon chopped and seeded chili or 1/4 teaspoon ground red pepper
1 egg
1/2 to 1 cup finely-chopped cooked shrimp (optional)
vegetable oil

1. Place peas in large kettle and cover with water. Let soak a few hours or overnight.
2. With hands underwater, rub peas underwater with palms of hands to remove skins. Skins will float to top and can be skimmed off.
3. Drain peas in colander. Place peas in blender or food processor with 1/3 cup water and blend for about 20 seconds or until smooth.
4. Place ground peas in large bowl. If mixture is dry, stir in water little by little until pasty.
5. Add remaining ingredients except oil and beat with spoon until light and airy. If, after adding the egg, the mixture is too liquid, add one tablespoon of flour.
6. In a large frying pan, heat 1 inch of oil over medium heat for 4 to 5 minutes or until temperature measures 375°. Carefully drop teaspoons of dough into oil and fry for about five minutes or until golden brown.
7. Remove Akara from oil with slotted spoon and drain on paper towel. Serve immediately. Serves six.

Africans usually eat two meals each day, but many snacks during the day. Akara is such a snack and, like Yassa, is eaten with the right hand only. The left hand is considered unclean as it is used primarily for grooming. When the food is placed in the mouth, no eye contact is made until the Akara is finished unless the other person is also eating the snack.

Meat-on-a-Stick (from Ethiopia and Uganda, cooked over hot coals on skewers)

1 teaspoon ground red pepper
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1/2 teaspoon seasoned salt
1 1/2 pounds beef tenderloin or round steak, cut into pieces
1 medium-sized onion, peeled and cut into medium-sized pieces

1. Combine red pepper, garlic powder and seasoned salt in shallow bowl. Add beef and mix with hands to coat with spices.
2. Preheat broiler.
3. Thread beef and onion pieces onto 12 inch skewers. Broil 4 to 5 minutes per side or until meat is tender. Makes 8 skewers.

In Africa, the skewers are cooked over hot coals. Because of this style of cooking, it is considered extremely impolite to touch a skewer to another person’s skin as the skewers are usually very hot and can cause severe burns. Additionally, unfinished meat left on the skewer ought to be pushed down to the tip of the stake to prevent accidental puncture.

The recipes are taken from Cooking the African Way, edited by Constance Nabwire and Bertha Vimeing Montgomery.

CAMP CAROLINA needs counselors June 5 thru Aug. 16. We have 20 in-camp activities & 8 high adventure, out-of-camp activities. Don't miss an amazing summer opportunity! Come see us at the job fair between the hours of 11:00 am & 1:30 pm. For more information call Robert Nath or Alfred at 1-800-551-9136.

The Davidsonian

A Little Something Uncommon: African Food Night at the Commons
By GEORDIE SCHIMMEL
Feature writer

Two smoking torches heralded the Commons' ever-popular African Food Night, a facet of the Dean Rusk Program’s Africa Week. “Africa Week? African Food Night?” one exclaims bewildered, “But what is African food?” Quite simply, African food is food from Africa, and it is unlike anything the Commons ordinarily serves.

Frankly, I do not know what experience outranks slow, thoughtful deliberation over a bowl of Algerian Green Bean Stew or a plate of Senegalese Yassa or the sumptuous Meat-On-A-Stick -- probably not many. As for the low, belly rhythm of the African music mingling with the food--if all of last Wednesday’s sense delights weren’t enough to whip you into a tribal frenzy, nothing is. And nothing is so sad as knowing that all the exotic dishes will soon be...scraped clean for another day. Sadness, though, is entirely unnecessary. As fleeting as African Food Night is, students need not feel melancholy at its departure, for Yassa, Algerian Green Bean Stew, and countless other delectable dishes are easily recreated at home. Indeed, every night is African Food Night with African food recipes, and the student searching for the pure culinary experience will find that cooking at home cannot be beat.

What the Commons could unfortunately not reconstruct, the particular ritual surrounding the meal, the student can easily achieve within the privacy of the dorm room or apartment. Yassa, for example, is not generally eaten from individual plates but from a community bowl. As guests squat in a circle around the food, they take small portions of it with their right hands. When the meal is finished, custom dictates that the guests first clean the nearest section of the bowl with their right hands, and then lick their hands clean. Try licking your right hand clean in the Commons. Or, instead, try cooking one of these recipes at home and learn what a tremendously fulfilling experience African cuisine can be.

A glimpse into another world (minus the mosquito bites)
By Tammy Tiska
Davidsonian Movie Critic

Last week I was inspired by two illuminating films about the African experience shown in celebration of Africa Week. Sango Malo is a Cameroonian film about Malo Malo Bernard, an idealistic schoolteacher just out of college. He is assigned to a village where his newfangled ideas ruffle the feathers of the traditional elite — the village priest, the sole shop owner, the school administrator, and the chief. Malo forgoes the standard curriculum that idealizes the Western world in favor of teaching the children how to farm, build houses, and set up cooperatives. This is a classic teacher-as-hero tale with socialist undertones. It doesn’t compete with Hollywood films for fast-paced action or special effects, but it is hilarious. It reminded me of a lot of things I had forgotten since I returned from Cameroon — the suffocating vegetation, the nightlife, and the perennial tensions between the generations.

Letters from Alou is a Spanish movie about a West African immigrant who is trying to find work and forge a new life for himself in Spain. The film deals with the problem of undocumented workers, a problem that also exists in the United States. It was more sophisticated than Sango Malo but less entertaining, in part because it was shot in Spain, which seems less foreign to us than Africa.

It is not uncommon for films about Africa to be produced by Westerners. The African film industry has developed slowly in recent years for several reasons. Many governments have strict restrictions on filmmaking, and many members of the industry have been exiled. In addition, the popularity of American and Asian films leaves little demand for others. The Pan-African Film Festival continues to be an important cultural event because it mainly features films made by Africans. Recent themes have shifted away from the dichotomy between the traditional and modern and moved towards an interest in portraying the village as a complete world. It is difficult to characterize the African film industry because the continent itself is so diverse and does not lend itself to simple classification. African movies serve as a refreshing change from our usual cinema fare, giving us a glimpse into a foreign land without the passport hassles and mosquito bites.

Alternative Summer Job
A Simple Formula, But One That Makes A Difference

Volunteer in Latin America: Invest in your future by working as a community health volunteer in Mexico, Costa Rica, Honduras, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Paraguay, or Brazil. Develop leadership, organizational and cross-cultural communication skills while focusing on public health and environmental projects. Scholarships are available. Call today for this life-enhancing opportunity. Deadline: March 1

Tuesday, February 7 at 9 pm
The Union, Big Screen Room
Call Jenny at x6(i68 for more info
1-800-231-5618
Amigos de las Americas
5618 Star Lane
Houston, TX 77057