Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN —— Coffee at long last

National coffee-shop brings Cornelius caffeinated culture

By GEORDIE SCHIMMEL
Staff Writer

A colossal inflated cup and saucer rose like a sort of Star of Bethlehem two weeks ago last Thursday in Cornelius, marking Caribou Coffee’s much-anticipated entrance into the college community, an entrance come none-too-soon. Half-tucked away a few doors down from Roses and beside soon-to-be Breugger’s Bagel Bakery, Caribou Coffee is not immediately discernible. But it is memorable, with an inviting ambience, bright, modern architecture, good music, and attractively arranged tables and chairs inside and on the sidewalk outside. And the prices are more than reasonable. A small cup of the day costs under a dollar, Mocha a little over two — the lowest prices around, even in Charlotte. The hours are accommodating, with the coffee shop opening at 8 a.m. and staying open until 11 on weekends, 10 weekdays.

Originating in Minnesota, Caribou Coffee is part of a chain of 40 stores owned by John and Kim Puckett. More of a neighborhood gathering place than strictly a coffee shop, Caribou is sensitive to the needs of the community. Within the month amateur musicians will perform on the weekends, and if the demand is great enough, poetry readings may also commence. Caribou Coffee promises to be a cheerful place to spread one’s work and relax over a cup of excellent, inexpensive coffee — an invigorating change of pace for the college community. One wishes only that it had come sooner.

Styron from page 16

...stretching it too far to say that suffering true clinical depression is about as close to pure pain as you can get. I think it could be argued that it could be equal to any suffering that one can have in a place like Auschwitz.

When you were going through depression or just your life in general, did you look to other writers to explain the phenomena of depression?

In the hospital when I thought my mind was secure enough, I began to read about depression as a medical topic. I read a great deal about the illness from the clinical point of view, and then still later I began to respond to the fact that other writers have suffered from the illness. But even so there are not many — in literature — pure descriptions of depression that I know of. We know for instance that Edgar Allan Poe must have been depressed. I did recall that Virginia Woolf suffered horribly from depression and died as a result of it. I read her journals. I read Sylvia Plath. But the literature of depression is fairly limited — that is in terms of pure description of depression.

In Darkness Visible you state that more females than males have been diagnosed with depression. Do you think that there is a reason for that? Do you think there is a difference between female and male depression?

I don’t know what the exact consensus is. I think the theory is that women may be somewhat more predisposed toward the illness than men, but others theorize that men traditionally simply do not admit to themselves that they have it and are far more resistant to deal with it than women. Maybe it’s just a combination of the two.

You describe in Darkness Visible how music and its connection with your past gave you the moment of clarity in your depression. After this moment, you made your first step to recovery. In many depression cases music is...

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.used as a type of therapy. Why do you think music is helpful? I think that the barometer of my mood has often been my response to music. When I’m feeling the depressive mood, I don’t listen to music. It’s as if that area of my sensibilities has been drowned because I go through long periods of down time. I don’t mean deep clinical depression, but just depressive periods, and I won’t respond to music. The barometer of my mood is 1511 Central Avenue at Pecan, Charlotte, NC 28205 f 333-0335. Valid ID with Social Security number required. M-Th 6:30am-9:00pm F 6:30am-8:00pm Sa 7:30am-6:00pm Su 7:30am-4:30pm. Boy, has it been rainy.

ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1995 Rob Kosicki

When I’m feeling up and good, I listen to music constantly. When one is profoundly depressed, you don’t respond to anything pleasurable — nothing — food, nature, anything. It’s a terminal inability to respond to any pleasurable impulse. Do you think the growing awareness of depression as a disease, and not as an abstract mental disorder, will change the perception and judgment that our society has on suicide? I remember well within my adult lifetime hearing people speak of suicide as immoral. Why did he kill himself? How cowardly he was to do that. I heard that many, many times: suicide is a cowardly act. This was, of course, a number of years ago, but I heard it over and over again. So I think in answer to your question — Yes. I think that there is certainly a more, a much more, widespread acceptance of the fact [of suicide]. I don’t think it’s complete by any means. I think that the vast portion of the country and society is unaware of this, but most importantly the overwhelming majority thinks that suicide can be prevented — because it is the result of depression and depression can be treated.

Symphony orchestra and choir are the core of musical activity. Now, as a reputable institution, we have a comprehensive performance forum. The orchestral program also gives the students opportunities to work with professional soloists and musicians of the local community. Musicians such as Jane Hart, Cynthia Lawing, and Jim Swisher have been premiered in past performances. Hart and Lawing performed in Bach’s Brandenburg Concerto No. 5, and Swisher in the Piano Concerto in A Minor by Edvard Grieg. Swisher will also be performing in the spring concert in Prior’s Piano Concerto No. 2, entitled “Phoenix Rising.” The orchestra is comprised of approximately 60 students; some of the musicians are also involved in choir, Chamber Choir, the Wind Ensemble, and the Jazz Ensemble.

Ever wonder how they take those pictures of the whole campus? Find out! HOT AIR BALLOON RIDES 8 a.m. - 11 p.m. Chambers Lawn.

Only one of the students is actually a music major, the senior bassist, Jonathan Pieslak. Thus the expectations require a lot of flexibility in the performance of the students. Prior states, “Students who are strong academically often have a musical aptitude, and the orchestra is an outlet for continuing the development of these musical talents.” The orchestra will be a viable tool in attracting students and musicians in the future. The group will be performing additional concerts in the spring at Davidson and in the Charlotte area. It is imperative that the community and the college support musical endeavors such as the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra. It is also of great cultural significance for the musical activity of the orchestra to persist in an environment where orchestras are continually disappearing. It is indeed unusual for a school of our size to have an orchestra. Thus, the community and college should continue to support this venture.