Che Davidsonian
VOLUME MAX
TUESDAY, MAY 9, 1995
NUMBER 0

Seattle Seehawks offer contract to senior Airial
By T. Sorensomebody

Senior Mills Airial got a phone call last week from a very important gentleman. It was a scout for the
Seattle Seahawks. “Mills,” the man said, “you made it. You’re going to play in the pros. We’re going to beat
the living shit out of you.” Mills was excited, to say the least. “Well, they’re going to really beat the
shit out of me at first. But I’m going to work hard all summer, and if I do well enough
they’ll let me stay on for the season, and then they’ll really start beating the shit out of me. I'll
work out, I'll play hard, and hopefully, one day I'll start. Then people from all around the country will beat
the shit out of me. Have you ever seen Rudy? Imagine him beating the shit out of me.”

But Mr. Airial was disappointed days later, when he got his contract in the mail. “Yeah, I was reading the
letter, and I noticed something strange in the letterhead. It said ‘The Seattle Seehawks.’ That was when I got suspicious.
Then I realized on the contract that I had to send a $500 ‘lineman’s fee’ to this place in New
Jersey. Then I talked to my old roommate Philpott, and he said he’d gotten a contract from the Seehawks. For
kicking. All the KA’s got one. Then I was pretty sure it was all a setup.”

Mills took action. He reported his suspicions to the police, and days later blue play-doh started showing up in his
mailbox. See Mills on page 3

By Mike Hunt

On any normal night at Davidson College, a few hundred Davidson students and faculty members participate in the electronic revolution.
Whether checking their EMAIL or sailing into CYBERspace for games or conversation, Davidsonians are privileged to have access to one
of the most hallowed modern institutions of our college: the VAX.

Recently, information has surfaced leading to the discovery that some students are abusing their Pollux Privileges. A group of Davidson
students have been involved in a ring of smut and sex that has been going on for almost four years.
At the center of this ring is a mysterious figure known as Blade Runner. Under his leadership, these students have
been spending their Saturday nights having anonymous sexual encounters with unseen partners using only their pseudonyms for protection. Each weekend
the students choose a different partner, sometimes two or more, who might be sitting only thirty feet away in the
computer center. To join the group, the only requirement is a “test run” with the Blade Runner.

The ring was uncovered by VAX watchdog professor Alexander McKelway. “I was outraged that this sort of filth was going
on at a Presbyterian campus,” he said. “This is socially irresponsible behavior, plain and simple. What about viruses?” While he
would not comment on the type of obscenities discovered, an unnamed worker at the computer center countered his charges. “It’s
a safe, 90’s way to interact with people. While our peers are out being promiscuous on Patterson Court, we’re engaging
in safe, virtual relationships.”we’re practicing protected sex on Pollux.” Efforts to locate the kingpin member of the group were unsuccessful,
though he was spotted in the Commons giving a massage to a fellow VAX companion.

Mills announces breakthrough publication
Professor on the cutting edge with feminist cookbook
The Feminine Mesquite
By A. Licks

Professor of English Elizabeth Mills is proud to announce her latest publication, a barbecue cookbook titled The Feminine Mesquite. On
Friday, she began a moving reading with the comment, “It’s about time women moved out of the kitchen and learned
how to work the grill.” Mills then read about fifteen sumptuous recipes to her women writers class. Among the recipes
she read: “Grilled pork shoulder and smashed weiner dogs,” “Susan Libby's giddy Faludi Tutti Frutti Teriyaki Weiners,” “Catherine McKinnon Sure
Would Be a’Grinnin’ Mutilated Weiner Dogs,” “Camille Paglia Smashed ‘Porn’ Sausage,” “Glorious” Steinem Ribs (and shredded weiner dogs), and “Naomi
“Howlin’” Woolf Burgers (with a side of crushed weiners).”

Mills responded to criticisms that her menus are overdependent on hot dogs. Friday she said, “The hot dogs... I just
like them. Morning, noon, and night, I just find myself wanting one. I mean, I always really, really want one.”
A touching tribute to Mills’ hero, “Sylvia Plath’s Favorite Oven-Roasted Boar’s Head,” has met some controversy, but Libby stands by
her recipes. “I usually cook that one for my daddy,” she said in one interview, “and he always gives me
the tongue.”

Mills’ book has also been criticized for the overabundance of saltpeter called for in many of the sauces. Mills declined
to comment on this problem, saying only, “Just taste it. It’s potent stuff.” But most reviews have been glowing. Said
Julia Child, “Mills’ recipes are all right. Too many weiners, but all right nonetheless.”

Yet Another Religious Debate Opens on Campus
By Barclay Turnstile

Recently a religious display placed near Chambers sparked the fury of campus Christians. The display consisted of a giant wooden
cross covered by Roses’ Fliers and a small bunny papered with pages of the New Testament. Efforts to uncover the
identities of the cult members were unsuccessful until recently. With the help of Davidson Professor Dr. Robert Ruth, the cult
has been discovered operating out of Huntersville. Worshipping Jesus H. Christ, the lesser-known prophet from Huntersville, the cult celebrates Easter
by systematically constructing rabbit icons and placing them in prominent locations around Mecklenburg County.

“Finding them was a relatively simple matter,” said criminology expert Dr. Ruth: “When the bunnies came to Davidson, I knew
that these fellows had left a trail we could easily follow. It was almost too easy.” Mentioning that he frequently
drove by the mobile home of the cult leader in an unmarked car, Ruth said that he “had been observing
their movements for some time now and was just waiting for them to make a blunder.”

Cult member Martha Octel states that the group is neither anti-Christian nor Satanic. When asked whether the group defined itself
as irreligious, she replied “I’m sorry, that is not the correct password.” She added that the cult only wanted to
increase awareness of the many different meanings of Easter. “Easter is a time of renewal, and these rabbits symbolize that
process.”
