ORTA

LIBERTAS

VOLUME LXXXVI

MONDAY, MAY 1, 1995

NUMBER 26

PCC figures out financing

By MATTHEW ERICH
Assistant News Editor

Last night in a unanimous vote, the Patterson Court Council (PCC) approved a plan to finance their risk management guidelines. The decision ends a tumultuous month of heated debate and great confusion over the future of independents and the Court.

The plan does require independents to pay a fee to attend parties. The fee will be $20 a year, $10 a semester for those going abroad, and will be paid to the PCC. House members will pay $20 directly to their houses. Freshmen and transfers will most likely not have to pay a fee for their first semester.

Howdy Coonley, who co-chaired a task force commissioned by PCC President Steven Shames to create a plan, says, “By having everyone pay equal, it’s not like we’re stiffing the independents. We’re all getting equal treatment.”

The task force was established after the PCC voted on April 9 against a plan to charge independents a much larger sum. According to Shames, the task force was charged with the “mission to ex-

See Court on page 3

Dean Rusk program searches for new director

By CATHERINE ANDERSON
Staff Writer

As Jack Perry prepares to leave Davidson after giving students and faculty 10 years of cheerful expertise, the search for a new director of the Dean Rusk Program continues.

One hundred applicants were recruited nationally as well as internationally, and six have been selected for interview on campus. Five have already completed this phase of the process.

“We hope to reach a decision in May,” says Dean of Faculty

“We’re concerned with finding just the right person,” he says. Members of the faculty were asked to submit nominations for the position as well. It is possible that the committee will hire an acting director for the fall should the search prove fruitless.

The school is currently running an ad for the position in various magazines and journals, including the Journal for Retired Foreign Officers and a plethora of

See Director on page 4

THIS WEEK

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1

Davidson, NC 28036

Dr. Mauro Botelho strides away from Convocation in purple.

PAINTING

At the site of the new town library, Carolyn Meadows and community kids paint murals like the masters.

PICTURES PAGES

Rob Kosicki

Students honored at convocation
Jack Perry wins ODK teaching award

By JENNIFER KERNS
Staff Writer

Seniors practiced balancing their caps and walking regally Wednesday for Spring Convocation, a dry run for graduation less than a month away.

The ceremony began with former Reach Out President Elizabeth Fleming’s invocation and prayer, followed by SGA President Bill Gullan’s welcome remarks. “Usually I sleep in, but when I heard that it was my duty to speak here today, I got up earlier today than I would have for classes,” he said.

President John Kuykendall thanked Gullan for his irreverent speech, commenting that he can “say things that we sometimes wish we could say, and things we would never say but want to.”

Kuykendall stressed that the ceremony belongs to both the seniors and the faculty. “This day is yours, and we say congratulations and thanks.” He said, “It belongs to us as well. We honor ourselves as we honor you ... We share in your moments of joy.”

After a moving performance from the Davidson College Concert Choir, Vice President of Academic Affairs Robert Williams presented the departmental and special awards.

Various special awards were given for each academic department, plus several alumni awards. Williams also announced graduate scholarships and fellowships given to members of the Class of 1995 and winners of the Stuart Scholarship.

Finally, new members of the Omicron Delta Kappa honor society were announced from the Classes of 1995 and 1996, as well as two honorary ODK awards. Eric Rosenbach announced Jack Perry

See Congrats on page 5

Tragedy
President Clinton attempts to prevent another incident like the one in Oklahoma City by strengthening federal policies.

NEWS 6

Farewell, seniors
Ike and Holt share some final words of wisdom.

OPINIONS 8-9

Farewell, Philip Levine
Prize-winning poet gives a reading and presents the Vereen Bell Awards.

ARTS & LIVING 12

U.S.-Finland
Women’s national soccer team defeats the Europeans, 6-0.

SPORTS 16