OPINIONS

That's What Friends are For

Rosie makes a mixed tape

The Luxury of Despair: A Mix Tape to Suit Your Favorite Molinary Moment

“Scarred but Smarter” - Drivin’ n’ Cryin’
“Everybody Hurts” - REM
“Rainy Days and Mondays Always Get Me Down” - The Carpenters
“Leaving On a Jet Plane” - Peter, Paul & Mary
“Down In It” - Nine Inch Nails
“Life In the Fast Lane” - The Eagles
“Shit Town” - Live
“The Sound of Silence” - Simon and Garfunkel
“Cruel Summer” - Bananarama
“Please Mr. Please” - Olivia Newton John
“Have You Never Been Mellow?” - Olivia Newton John
“Only the Lonely” - The Motels
“Shiny Happy People” - REM
“Another One Bites the Dust” - Queen
“In the End” - Green Day
“Stay” - Lisa Loeb
“Boys Don’t Cry” - The Cure
“Please Do Not Go” - The Violent Femmes
“I Nearly Lost You” - The Screaming Trees
“Fear of Flying” - Teenage Fanclub
“Tears of a Clown” - Smokey Robinson
“Mr. Wendell” - Arrested Development
“Trouble” - Coldplay

Rosie’s Picks: A Movie to Suit Your Favorite Molinary Moment

Do the Right Thing
Psycho
Dead Ringers
Stand and Deliver
Airplane
Natural Born Killers
A Cry In the Dark
I Stand By Me
Boys In the Hood
Stealing Home
The Age of Innocence
Hoop Dreams
Death Becomes Her
Silence of the Lambs
The Outsiders
Rosemary’s Baby
A Kiss Before Dying

Job Thomas takes a hit while John plays with snakes.

An Alumni Opinions Writer

Drugs: key to spiritual enlightenment

COMING SOON TO JOHNSTON GYM... THE LIVE SHOW YOU'VE BEEN WAITING FOR

TERMINATOR XXX "Hightower Goes Nudie"

“Brahman is Atman; Atman is Brahman,” I uttered contemplatively as I passed the bong pipe to Bill “Dr. Toke” Mahony.
“Grooooovy,” he replied as two curls of smoke streamed gently out of his nostrils.

For years I have wrestled with the subject of ultimate reality, but not until my four years at Davidson have
I loosened up enough to experience the true harmony of the universe one experiences through “altered states of consciousness.” Ganja,
Weed, Mary Jane, Reefer, Pot. My experience with this five-leafed wonder has opened me to new levels of spiritual awareness.

“The Buddha is a pile of shit sticks.”
“What is the sound of one hand clapping?”
“What did my face look like before my parents were born?”
“Why can’t Nathan Seay and Rob King ever get a date?”

All of these koans suddenly became perfectly clear to me for the first time when I smoked ganja with my
study group the night before Dr. Mahony’s final exam.

The use of drugs as a way of reaching spiritual enlightenment in Eastern religious traditions such as Hinduism, Buddhism, or
Taoism is obvious, but what about Western religious traditions such as Judaism or Christianity? Speaking recently to fellow religion major
Amy Cohan, I learned about the “secret” ingredi-ent in Passover matza which gives Jewish people around the world reason to
celebrate. You guessed it, hasheesh. Chair of the Religion department, Dr. Karl Plank added, “The epistemological, hermeneutical, ontological, teleological, pedagogical
instances of chemically induced altered states of consciousness within the narrative tradition of the Jewish people is unprecedented given the
historical, cultural, and socioeconomic context in which the texts were written.” Having heard this, I immediately took another puff of
my joint, looked at him, warmly smiled and said, “Heh, heh, yeah, cool, heh, heh!”

I have also spoken recently to co-leader of F.C.A., Bo Bartholemew who informed me that the letters of F.C.A. really
represent Fellowship of Cocaine Addicts. Bo went on to say that “We are currently implementing a rigorous program of evangelical
outreach whereby every student shall receive a free gram of F.C.A. processed cocaine wrapped in a Bible verse in their
Good Stuff boxes at the beginning of each school year.” He closed by saying, “We hope to have two hundred
new lives snorting their way to accepting the Lord by next fall!”

The next person I interviewed was Giorgio “the Godfather” Hiatt, current leader of Intravenous Christian Fellowship, who stressed I.V.C.F.’s unique
commitment to the use of heroin in its praise groups. Hiatt states that “So many times the intellectual farting characteristic
of Davidson students inhibits the working of the Holy Spirit in their lives. You should just see those freshmen loosen
up the second the needles slide into their veins.”

The last person I spoke to in my drug-induced quest for spiritual enlightenment was our college chaplain and resident expert
on the subject, Dr. Rob “the pharmacist” Spach. I first experienced the constructive use of hallucinogenic drugs when I attended
my first En Route meeting. “‘Shrooms are our drug of choice here at En Route. We have recently collaborated with
the Biology department, so we are able to grow our own in the greenhouse behind the senior apartments.” Of course,
during Holy seasons of the liturgical year such as Lent or Advent, the chaplain’s office picks up the tab for
L.S.D. cartoon stickers to be distributed through the Ecumenical Council to the various Christian groups on campus. Spach concludes by
saying, “It is wonderful to see students take their first ‘trip’ and realize that walls really do breathe or simply
that we have thousands of roaches crawling underneath our skin.”

I hope that I have offered a unique and reinvigorating way of helping you and your friends reach eventual spiritual
enlightenment. As for me, it’s off to Duke Divinity School. I hear the weed up there is pretty good. Shalom!

Finally... the Main Event every Davidson woman has dreamed of... Terminator X bares all!!

The critics rave....

"Terminator XXX is one of a kind. I mean, it's all right, you know? Please don't tell him what I
said..."
--John Dickmore, New York Times

"I've never seen so much skin on one person."
--Louise Jestersin, Boston Globe

"Another ticket? Damnit! I was just inside for five minutes! Five minutes!"
--Walt Barron, Caduceus

"That is one big gun."
--Terminatrix Y, WWF Newsletter
