THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1995 15

Davidson field hockey player Chase Keith battles an opponent in the team’s upset to Ohio University Saturday. Rob Kosicki

V-ball beats Campbell
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Writer

On Saturday, the volleyball team welcomed the pesky Campbell Camels to Belk Arena for a 7 p.m. start.

VOLLEYBALL

Nearly three hours and tremendous amounts of effort and heart later, the Wildcats emerged with a gutsy 3-2 victory, 14-16,
15-17, 15-13, 15-10, 18-16.

In the first game, Davidson (2-4) found themselves quickly down, 7-2 and 11-4. The team then closed the gap to
11-9 and 13-12, finally knotting the contest at 14 points apiece. This scrappy, come-from-behind style of play became the Wildcats’
common theme for the rest of the match. But the Camels ultimately captured the initial game and once again jumped
out to an early lead, 4-0 in the second game, only to see the Wildcats come back to tie it
5-5. A see-saw battle ensued until Davidson reached game point at 15-14. Unable to capitalize, the Wildcats saw their opportunity
disappear and within minutes, dropped a second game, 17-15.

An already bleak scenario became even worse, as Davidson fell hopelessly behind in the third game, 11-3. Having played too
well to succumb in three consecutive games, they slowly, but surely clawed their way back, cutting the deficit to 11-6,
12-9 and then 13-12. There, freshman outside hitter Emily Willeford took control and served out the crucial middle game 15-13.

In the fourth game, Campbell took a 6-1 lead, but as usual, the determined Davidson squad fought back to win
it 15-10, sending the marathon match to a fifth game. Because of the rally scoring in the final stanza, regardless
of who is serving, the score teetered back and forth. Davidson had a match point at 14-13, as did Campbell
at 15-14. Another potential winner for the Wildcats at 16-15 was denied, but finally, at 17-16, the Wildcats put an
emphatic end to the long match and won on a powerful cross-court smash.

Having started the season with a 1-4 record due to losses to Temple, N.C. State, South Carolina, and Illinois-Chicago and
a 3-1 win over Winthrop, Saturday night represented a much-needed emotional victory for Davidson. Hopefully, it will serve as a
stepping stone for the future and, according to head coach Lisa Radford, the future for Davidson volleyball is bright.

As the seventh seed in the Southern Conference, expectations are not high for the team, but that suits Radford just
fine, as she anticipates surprising a lot of talented teams as underdog. She views this season not as a rebuilding
year, but as “a building year,” sensing a positive energy on her young team that boasts only one senior (captain
Michele Augustin) and one junior (captain and defensive setter Ami Bondurant). The rest of the squad consists of several wide-eyed
freshmen and sophomores, many of whom play integral roles in the team’s offensive and defensive attack.

Led by the two upperclassmen, sophomores L.A. Bumgarner at outside hitter and setter Amy Bourgeois, and freshmen Janet Duncan (middle
blocker) and Willeford (outside hitter) will also play key roles this season. Under her tutelage, Radford hopes the group can
approach a .500 winning percentage, thus solidifying a spot in the middle of the conference. The scrappy squad then aims
to go at least one round in the post-season conference tourney held here at Davidson in November.

The Wildcats, however, play an ambitious schedule including matches against regional powerhouses South Carolina and North Carolina. Tough hurdles within
the conference are preseason favorites Furman, Appalachian State and East Tennessee State. With such a demanding gauntlet of games, the
youthful Wildcats will have to consistently give “150 percent,” as Radford puts it, playing over their potential to gain a
respectable record.

Radford said that she hopes Saturday will prove to be indicative of her team’s ability to come from behind and
post intense victories. This week’s full slate includes a trip to Chapel Hill to face the Tar Heels, while on
Wednesday, the team participates in the Radford tournament. Davidson then hosts East Carolina on Friday at 5 p.m. and Morehead
St. and Radford on Saturday at 11 a.m. and 7:30 p.m., respectively.

Field Hockey faces tough competition from the start
By JOHN ROE
Sports Writer

Two weekends ago, the Davidson field hockey team opened its season atVirginia, one of the stronger ACC teams, then faced
a tough Miami (Ohio). This weekend, the Wildcats stayed home but still had tough competition — facing Ohio University and
Wake Forest. The squad lost the first two games of the season, before falling to Ohio Saturday and facing the
Deacons, which just knocked off defending champion James Madison, on Sunday. Virginia is one of the hardest opponents on the
Wildcats' schedule, and Davidson fell 5-0. But coach Betsy Pryor said the team did not play poorly.

"We played very well in the second half," Pryor said. "We did not embarrass ourselves. With our tough preseason, I
believe we started off the regular season well." The team was riddled by pulled muscles in the preseason, including three
to returning starters. Although all were able to play, the team symmetry was not there yet. The pulled muscles, coupled
with the late arrival of the freshmen, limited the time the team had played together. In the second game against
Miami, these handicaps took their toll. Although the Wildcats seemingly dominated the game, they were unable to execute in key
scoring situations and fell 2-1.

The Wildcats had many standout performers, including junior left-back Mary Dowd and Nicole Ficeto, both of whom did an excellent
job controlling the left side of the field. Teresa Allen, Amy Lamoureux, and freshman sweeper Lindsey Parker all played tough
and contributed to a successful opening weekend. Pryor remains optimistic about the season. With the addition of assistant coach Sandie
Marotti, who Pryor said has been a great help already, and the encouraging performances last weekend, the field hockey team
is ready to tackle the rest of the season. This week, the Wildcats have two home matches, hosting Appalachian State
on Thursday and Longwood on Sunday.

By Krisy Forp
Sports Writer

After falling to UNCC 2-0 on Wednesday, the women’s soccer team took out their frustrations in the ring. The American
Gladiators ring set up at Lunar Luau provided the release players needed before entering a weekend of competition. It must
have been just what the Wildcats needed because they dominated this weekend, winning their first conference game and advancing to
1-0 in the Southern Conference. The team romped Wofford 8-0 on Saturday in a game that they dominated from the
beginning when Melissa Moser scored on a pass from Claudia Lombard 49 seconds into the game. The Wildcats never looked
back.

After taking only 11 shots against UNCA and 8 shots against UNCC, the offensive line got hungry, taking 44 shots.
At halftime, with a comfortable lead of 4-0, Moser, Kelly Ammann, Lucia Plosser, and Heather Wineberg scored off of assists
from Lombard, freshman Rhina Roberts, and Ammann. However, the Wildcats didn’t let up and came out the second half strong
with Plosser scoring unassisted only nine minutes into the half. Sophomore Amy Kanoff, freshman Linda Rothemund, and Wineberg followed her
lead, scoring off of assists from Plosser, Lombard, and Schmidt, respectively.

Not happy with just one win, the Wildcats came out ready for conference play on Sunday and took it to
Georgia Southern. Once the Wildcats got the lead, they never looked back. Goalie Allison Noznesky did an excellent job, as
well as defenders Shannon Lowrance, freshman Katherine Cornelius, and Kelly Schmidt, of keeping Georgia Southern’s all-conference players away from the
goal. Plosser, Wineberg, Ammann, and Moser scored off of assists from Lombard, Moser, Cornelius, and Kanoff in a 5-1 victory.

“We have really come together recently,” said Plosser. “We have a small team and really haven’t gotten the chance to
play 11 on 11, and that is why the Wofford game was so good for us.” Coach Hundley agreed with
Plosser, “We may only have 15, but all 15 can play. Both days we have had a tremendous team effort.”
The team has been finishing off their scoring chances and creating many more opportunities to score. Freshmen have continued to
improve with playing experience, and contributions from the bench have been invaluable. In the past two games, Plosser has come
off the bench to score 4 goals and chip in one assist. Moser contributed 2 goals and 2 assists, and
Wineberg added 3 goals and an assist in the weekend sweep.

“We have been playing great, but the next three games are going to be the hardest. Those will be the
test,” said Plosser.

WRITE FOR Sports. CALL Matt -2148.
