6 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1995

Week in Washington

Tax cut victory ends 100 days

By ANDREA SHORT
Washington Week Correspondent

Fighting off recalcitrant Democrats and some reluctant Republicans, the House Republican leadership finished the 100 days with a victory on
tax cuts. Although the bill’s passage in the Senate remains uncertain, House Republicans can return to their districts having fulfilled
their end of the Contract.

The five-year, $189 billion plan survived a rough week of opposition in the House as different factions of Republican members
expressed reservations about certain sections of the bill. The 103 Republicans who wanted to lower the maximum income cut off
for the $500 per child tax cut received publicity but no results. Their plan would have designated $95,000, rather than
the bill’s $200,000, as the maximum income allowed to qualify for the tax break. The Republican leadership refused to reduce
the rate, stating that they would not compromise the details of the Contract with America.

Another group of dissident Republicans have been lobbying the leadership to link tax cuts to deficit reduction. Led by Mike
Castle (DE-R), Fred Upton (MI-R), and Bill Martini (NJ-R), approximately 30 Republican members attempted to include an amendment that would
make implementing tax cuts dependent on clear progress lowering the Federal deficit. Gingrich appeased the group by informally tying the
two issues together, but he offered no concrete promises. While Castle seemed pleased, proclaiming, “We’ve taken a tax cut bill
and made it a balanced budget bill with a tax component to it,” Democrats and pundits viewed the exchange cynically.

Tax breaks will go to a plethora of demographic groups if the bill becomes law. Besides the famous $500 per
child tax break, the bill includes a one-time $5,000 break for couples who adopt, and a $500 credit for families
caring for an elder. Other changes include awarding a credit to married couples; under current tax codes, the IRS penalizes
individuals who tie the knot. Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs) would be available for non-working spouses, and individuals could make penalty-free
withdrawals for costs such as college tuition, a first home, and medical expenses. Businesses and individuals will benefit from a
lowered capital gains tax. Other business tax cuts will include: deductions for home offices, increased write-offs for business equipment purchases,
and higher rates of depreciation.

One of the most controversial business tax breaks is the Republicans’ plan to repeal the alternative minimum tax, a tax
that ensures that corporations who file large write-offs still pay some tax. The bill’s passage pleased Bill Archer, Chairman of
the Ways and Means Committee. Assuring reporters that 75% of the breaks would help households and only 25% would go
toward “job creation,” he defended the cuts against Democratic attacks that claim the tax breaks would benefit primarily the rich.
Representing one of the six wealthiest districts in the nation, Archer bantered over one reporter’s semantics, saying, “I wish you
wouldn’t say rich. I wish you’d start saying people who are higher income rather than lower income.”

Archer hopes to further his economic vision by taking on the income tax; he would replace the tax with a
national sales tax of 15 to 20%. Archer doesn’t expect any success, however, while a Democrat holds the Oval Office
and the veto stamp.

Sources include the April 4, 5, and 6th issues of The New York Times.

Dean Rusk

U.S. warns Russia of arms deal with Iran

By GRAHAM ERNST
Dean Rusk adjunct reporter

Despite repeated warnings from the United States, the Russian Ministry of Atomic Energy continued with its plans to build up
to four light water nuclear reactors in Iran costing over $1 billion. U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher cited Pentagon
intelligence reports in predicting that such a deal would allow Iran to develop nuclear weapons capabilities within ten years. Apparently,
Iran has been smuggling centrifuges to enrich plutonium and other sophisticated electronics over the past several years as part of
a nuclear weapons program. Furthermore, there are reports that Iran has sought to buy medium-range missiles (up to 600 miles)
from North Korea. The missiles would provide a delivery system for whatever nuclear bombs it develops in the future. The
Clinton Administration triedto deter Russia from making the deal with Iran by offering tens of millions of dollars in development
projects for their own Atomic Energy Ministry and suggesting that Iran does not necessarily have the capital to pay for
the reactors. However, the American pleas and arguments fell upon deaf ears. Russian Atomic Energy Minister Viktor Mikhailov defended his
decision stating that the deal was in full accordance with guidelines set forth by the International Atomic Energy Agency. U.S.
Defense Secretary William Perry claimed that Iran’s technology would eventually become sophisticated enough to turn the nuclear elements in the
light water reactors into weapons-grade material. This point is hopefully overstated in light of the United States’ nuclear accord with
North Korea which will result in the building of similar nuclear reactors in North Korea by South Korea and the
United States in exchange for North Korea’s pledge not to develop nuclear weapons. This deal was struck on the premise
that light water nuclear reactors are not capable of producing nuclear fissionable material. The discussion between the U.S. and Russia
regarding the imminent deal with Iran is timely with the upcoming conference in New York on the future of the
Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty which was signed by 174 nations in 1970. Many non-nuclear countries fear that their participation in the
Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty has led to a “nuclear apartheid” of the nations with nuclear capabilities including the U.S., the United
Kingdom, France, China, and Russia. The U.N. Security Council has been at work this week to pass a resolution before
the April 17 conference that would reinforce the “nuclear umbrella” by making nuclear countries pledge not to use nuclear weapons
on non-nuclear countries and provide protection for non-nuclear countries against aggressors. With countries such as Iran, Iraq, and North Korea
still harboring ambitions for nuclear weapons programs, it is likely that nations who fear the power of nuclear weapons will
come back on board the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and extend it indefinitely. Sources include 4-3-95, 4-4-95, 4-5-95, and 4-6-95 issues
of The New York Times.

NOTES

Empty course costs two school officials jobs

DALLAS— Two high school officials have lost their posts because they gave hundreds of students A’s for a class that
had no teachers, no attendance, and no work. Some students signed up to take the Peer Assistance and Leadership course
as many as four times a day. Sunset High School Principal Michael Sitles and Dean of Instruction Zulema Ortiz were
negligent in their grading, said Superintendent Chad Woolery. He said they established the program despite three warnings. Mr. Woolery said
the school used the leadership class to fill students' schedules because it did not offer enough elective courses. No students
will be penalized, he said.

Tough campus test: Saying ‘no’ to drink

DURHAM— On weekends, which in terms of partying begin on Thursdays at the University of New Hampshire, some students straggling
back from bars, dorm rooms, and fraternity houses stop to heckle the residents of Englehardt Hall. “They yell things, call
us names,” said Jennifer Martin, a junior who lives in the dorm, the only alcohol-and-drug-free university housing on a campus
where drinking remains as inevitable a part of college life as required courses. Here, as at other New England colleges
where political correctness has tempered some forms of hazing and bias, the few non-drinking students still find themselves the objects
of widespread intolerance. “They truly are a forgotten minority,” said Anne Lawing, UNH director of student life. UNH students’ negative
attitude toward teetotalers is not unusual. The alcohol-free dorm at the University of Vermont “is described by students giving campus
tours as ‘the place where the geeks live,’” said Dennis McBee, head of the substance abuse counseling program at the
Burlington, Vt., campus. On many campuses today, McBee said, “It is more acceptable to come out of the closet as
a gay than to come out of the closet and say you’re a non-drinker.”

---

with any ice cream or frozen yogurt purchase and this coupon.

VERMONT'S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT

507 Providence Rd. 333-1003

The Arboretum 543-8333

202 S. Main St. - Davidson
