THE DAVIDPHONIAN TUESDAY, MAY 9, 1995

Mary Magdalene..... . Union Productions Presents: The Last Temptation of Nat May
John the Baptist....... William Brown, the Union Man
Kristina Nevius
Dave Rozelle
Fidel Castro
Alexander McKelway
Scott Lenhart
Bob Manning, Ph.D.
Jesus Nat May
Mary Ferguson

Check it out: Chambers's chambermaids are men
By Another investigative reporter

The legendary Chambermaids who for eighty years have stood mightily over Chambers lawn were discovered Saturday to be men, says a startling Physical Plant report released today. The discovery was made Saturday afternoon by a retired Physical Plant worker known to his comrades as “Old Flathead” after an accident involving two milk jugs, an anvil, and a leper.

Old Flathead, now a freelance statue cleaner, had returned on special assignment to wash the lovely ladies as part of the college beautification project inspired by Carlton Pritchard’s announcement of plans to retire. “Well, I was just scrubbin’ the statue like I always do, and when I got down around the statue's crotch area, I heard this giggling. It was just the damnedest thing, ‘cause I ignored it for a while, thinkin’ it was just them voices in my head talkin’ to me again.”

But Old Flathead was soon to discover otherwise. “After a few minutes, that gigglin’ turned into full-fledged laughter, and I couldn’t believe my eyes. The thing was lookin’ down at me with a big smile on its face. ‘I don’t think I’m quite clean down there, if you know what I mean,’ it says to me. I near fell right off the buildin’,” said Flathead.

“Well, I just couldn’t believe my own eyes, you know. And I don’t, sometimes, like that time I thought all them bowling balls was severed human heads. That was a night, let me tell you.”

Later, Flathead remembered what the hell he was talking about. “Oh yeah. Well, I just had to see if the thing was really alive, so I peeled its robes back a little, and damn if the thing didn’t have a huge stone dong. And a little driftwood in there, might I add.”

The statue was unavailable for comment. The Women’s Issues Committee and the Board of Trustees were called to a special joint meeting Sunday to discuss what action to take. “This is just the kind of stereotyping that keeps women oppressed,” said Women’s Issues Chairman Sarah Orsbon. “Just because a stone statue wears a dress, everybody assumes it’s a woman. I think we should call the statues ‘The Chamber Dudes,’ or ‘The Chamber Misters.’ Something must be done.”

Trustee John Calvin replied, “I don’t see what the problem is. Obviously, a crazy old man had a fantasy on top of Chambers, and he’s not even a Presbyterian.” Just kidding. Everyone knows that John Calvin is dead.

The Commons aims to please, guarantees fun
By Jenn E. Wart

After The Davidsonian received so much grief for the evaluations of courthouse kitchens, The Davidphonian staff saw it only fair to evaluate the other food service on the court, our own Vail Commons. The results are shocking. Despite receiving a high overall rating, we discovered that all this time the Commons have been lacing the food with aphrodisiacs and boy does this answer a lot of questions. The higher levels of substances are apparently in the all-new “alternative bar” and the yogurt machines. Not only will the Commons food make you fat, but horny too!

No wonder Davidson girls hook up so much, acting like they have years of frustration to let out, as freshmen. Sophomore Carrie Seymour said, “This explains so much. Last year I ate there all the time, and boy did I hook up a lot. I mean all the time, with different people, and this year I’ve been in a cold spell.”

The discovery has placed Carlton Pritchard on his heels, because the obvious reason for the inflated meal plans is a result of the use of expensive aphrodisiacs.

Toni Morrison denied admittance to
By Geraldo Davidson junior and recent Nobel Prize WinnerToni Morrison was appalled Monday when she received word that she was not chosen to be a participant in the 1995 Davidson “Summer in Cambridge” at Wolfson College. “I couldn’t believe it. I got the letter in the mail and it just said, ‘Since you are a Junior you have been put on the waiting list as an alternate. The thirty other applicants were just better than you.’”

“You know, our lounge sure is locked a little too often during the week now that I think about it, maybe I'll try getting a meal plan next semester,” said junior hall counselor Shannon Lorance. The use of these sexual enhancers is thought to possibly add to the number of people eating there next year, but not for everybody. “I don’t think I’m going to eat there. I feel like I’m doing pretty good as it is right now, I mean who hasn't seen me at Backstreet with Louie O. Are you quoting this? I must sound awful. Everyone is going to gossip about me, or are they already? Oh my!” said junior Lexy Devane.

Apparently, the cafeteria workers have been getting a kick out of this for some time. “I usually walk around while the little boogers are still eating so I can see how horny they get, especially all those Warner Hall girls and KA guys that eat together all the time,” said one worker who said she didn’t have a name. No wonder SAE didn’t mind eating there with all of those good-looking (and apparently horny) girls they were eating with that whole time. Hell, with that as a distraction, who could think about rush and getting pledges?

“I’ve been eating down there all semester and it hasn’t done me any good. Maybe I should try eating more yogurt and reap the benefits, being a SENIOR and everything,” said a pensive Will Cobb.

Dr. Cynthia Lewis, Director of the Program says, “Her GPA was just not high enough. We had to admit Sophomores with higher GPAs.” Morrison’s best friend, senior Maya Angelou says, “I just can’t believe a 2.775 isn’t high enough for admittance. Toni is a bright and capable woman and would be a boon to the program. And those sophomores... really.”

Oprah Winfrey agrees, “I don’t understand what is going on at that school. Is Davidson truly a place for individuals or is it a body of statistics and probability? I mean, think of the losers that got in! That should tell you something. I think I'll do my next show on PRIVATE COLLEGES. DESTROY LIVES! Eat my shorts Regis and Kathy Lee.”

Most people would think this would cause controversy, but most people, including faculty and administration, think the whole thing is pretty funny and see no reason for change. Will Terry says he plans on getting one himself, “Hell, I don’t work for the college anymore and I’m single.”

When asked why her grades were not up to par, Morrison whimpered, “I spent all of my time writing Sula. I know grades are probably a better indication of my capabilities, intellect, and personal charm, but they could have at least given me an interview.”

English Department Chair Tony “two T’s” Abbott says, “She was part of a very talented applicant pool. Sometimes others get overshadowed. Are you going to refer to me as a chair in the article? I am not a chair. I am a human being. People do not sit on me. Have you ever noticed a tree in the wintertime?”

English Department member Gill Holland quoted the Norton edition of Thomas Hardy’s Tess of the D’Urbervilles. “‘I will do without Cambridge,’ said Angel at last. ‘I feel that I have no right to go there in the circumstances’” (91).