THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1995

Town meeting focuses on residence life
Students tell RLO what’s up
By Brooke BAGWELL
Staff Writer

The SGA held its second town meeting on Thursday night to discuss the issue of residence life. Student co-chairs of
the Student Advisor Committee to the Residence Life Office, Sara Beth Hamlin and Dave Derrick, Director of Residence Life Kurt
Holmes, and Director of Housing Operations Debbie Young attended the meeting to answer questions and offer solutions for existing concerns.

The main focus of discussion centered on the upkeep of residence halls. Students suggested areas of improvement relating to dorm
rooms and communal areas, and the RLO representatives related the college’s plans to address the issue. Pest control was an
issue, namely the presence of ants in dorm rooms. Holmes noted that Carolina Pest Control exterminates twice a year for
the College but said students could alleviate the problem with the proper containment of food and heavy fragrance to prevent
insect infestation.

Another big issue was the maintenance of hall bathrooms. Students registered complaints about the lack of shower curtains and bathroom
stall doors in some bathrooms and spoke of the poor quality of the campus toilet paper. Young indicated that the
college was currently investigating bathroom accommodations and formulating the most cost-efficient solutions.

Students also touched on the relationship between the residents of Martin Court apartments and the school. Some felt the cleanliness
checks were a nuisance. Yet, Holmes argued the necessity of such inspections to keep a check on destructive lifestyles and
prevent damage to school property. Holmes similarly mentioned that student life in the apartments resembled a landlord-tenant relationship, involving “real
world” obligations and compliances.

Holmes mentioned that dorm renovations would be continuing in upcoming years. The sophomore dorms are currently being evaluated for possible
improvement of common space, room size, and handicap accommodations.

SGA President Bill Gullan was pleased with the night’s proceedings and viewed the relatively small turnout as an indicator that
people are satisfied with residence life. He commended the RLO and said he felt confident that the quality of Thursday
night’s meeting “will generate good levels of progress.”

Health Center sponsors events for National Depression Screening
By SARAH TEACHWORTH
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Counseling Center will participate in National Depression Screening Day to educate people about depression, reduce the stigma
surrounding it, and discover individual cases of it. Throughout the day on Thursday, October 5, checklists will be available in
the Union to help determine whether you might be suffering from depression. The main events, though, will take place at
8:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

First, a panel of students and faculty will talk about their personal experiences with depression — problems with family members,
close friends, or themselves. Next, the Counseling Center will show the movie Ordinary People, directed by Robert Redford. It is
a film thatDavidson College psychologist DeWitt Crosby feels it is a realistic portrayal of depression resulting from issues of survivor
guilt. All students, faculty, and staff are welcome to attend any or all of the activities. Psychologists will be on
hand to administer private screenings to, as Crosby says, answer the question of, “Am I just sad and blue, or
am I really depressed?” There will also be forms available for those who wish to take them home to fill
out and return later to the counseling center for a private screening. Crosby says that it is important for people
who may be depressed to seek guidance because most cases of depression can be treated.

Recycling bins are located in first-floor lounges, outside the library, all academic buildings, and beside the dumpster by Flowe.

From the Archives

Want to help make recycling work at Davidson? Call Helen Robinson at x6542, or Jenn Schuetz at x6827.

The Davidsonian

Don’t forget about the photo contest. Entries are due after break!

Treat Yourself for Homecoming!
Sculptured Nails
French Manicures
Pedicures
Tanning Booth

At The Duchess, we offer you a day of stress-free pampering.

What was happening in 1924?
By Jason McMULLAN
Staff Writer

Seventy-one years ago, in 1924, 3,000 new bleachers were added to Richardson Field for that year’s football season. These seats
were added to allow enthusiastic Davidson supporters to watch the Wildcat’s prowess on the field. This larger-than-ever crowd saw a
wonderful season for the team; the 7-2-1 record included a 5-0 start, victories over Wofford, Richmond, and Clemson, and a
tie with NC State. The only two losses that year were to Furman and UNC. This was the most successful
team since 1917.

Enrollment started to boost in 1945 with the admission of 208 new freshmen. Registrar F. W. Henewald was pleased that
the number “approached pre-war enrollment.” The 15-foot waves lifted the house from anchoring on the pilings, and the house floated
to the shore. Some boats were damaged, including a glass-bottom boat that sunk but was recovered. Also in that week
of 1988, something happened that we can all relate to today. The infamous U.S. News & World Report rankings listed
Davidson as 20th, a drop of five places from the previous year.

Babysitter Wanted

To care for a pleasant 9-month-old on weekends and occasional weeknights. Will negotiate times and days and could guarantee a
set schedule. Non-smoker with own transportation to Mooresville area is requested. Call Lee Adney at 663-3563.

Tanning Special: 10 visits for $33.00

New specials in our store:
Facials by Peggy
Set of Nails for only $40.00 (thru February)

Located at the Chair Factory, 20700 N. Main St., Cornelius (704) 892-7030.
