THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1995

Creating community during Solidarity Week.

NEWS
Brandon Clarke

SGA continues to build cabinet with new senators
By Russ TARVER
Associate Editor

Several new senators were sworn into the SGA in last Tuesday’s meeting. Junior Michael Bodé was appointed as Independent Senator to replace Dennis Seavers, who is now the SGA Chancellor. Brian Woodward became a sophomore class senator after sophomore senator David Wick was appointed to Class President as the second highest vote-getter in last semester’s elections. Sophomores Clair Freeman, Dave Derrick, and Kirk Roberts and junior Jim Sibley will represent Warner Hall, KA, PiKA, and Kappa Sig, respectively.

SGA President Bill Gullan spoke affectionately about the new senators. “We’re very glad to have them. It’s always good to have new people because they bring a fresh perspective to matters of the SGA.”

Coverage from page 1

were to be seriously injured, the school would face major litigation. In addition to the college itself, the injured party could sue the individual chapter where they received the beer and, if the house were a fraternity, the national chapter as well. According to Shames, Davidson’s alcohol policy and the national chapter’s stipulations would likely exempt them from blame. The suit could then fall singly on the shoulders of the individual house — the officers themselves. Shames says, “The basic premise is to look at risk management. The students in the chapter can be liable for this. If we are paying $5,000, then we should know what it is going for.”

Davidson General Council Bart Landess receives information on a regular basis describing different lawsuits that other schools have faced as a result of alcohol. Landess, himself a SAE and 1981 Davidson graduate, encourages eating houses and fraternities to “look at what is risky and be careful. You want to make sure the insurance companies know that you are safe.” Dean of Students Tom Shandley agrees: “What we have to say to everyone is, make sure you know what your liabilities are.”

What Davidson does

The presence of risk managers, sober monitors, and uniformed policemen at each party decreases the risk considerably. Parties also provide alternatives to alcohol, which shows that not everyone has to drink beer. “We have to balance the situation by looking at our exposure. We have police officers that make up for the problems,” says Holmes.

The keg issue is debatable. National fraternities stipulate that kegs are not allowed because in court, “keg cases” are harder to win. However, Davidson believes that parties with “a single point of service” are easier to control. Three weeks ago, an alcohol task force offered its services to Davidson, and their report is expected to come out within the next month. They met with students from all aspects of campus life and asked questions to determine the extent of alcohol abuse at Davidson. “I expect them to come back with a lot of favorable things to say about Davidson, because we do a lot right.”

What will have to change?

Shames feels that this problem needs to be addressed before the worst happens. “We don’t want to close the parties because we love them, but we can’t wait for something to happen because we won’t be covered,” he says. Landess spoke at a recent Patterson Court Council meeting and presented the issue to members. “The PCC needs to take everything into account and see what they need to do,” he says. Holmes believes that “some significant changes probably need to take place.” He says that there are ways to change how houses serve alcohol or implement some sort of a sign-up sheet or informal guest list. “We are just trying to prevent a worst-case scenario,” says Shames. “We just need to change the system before it changes us. If something serious happened, it is possible that an eating house or fraternity could cease to exist.”

Preserving the atmosphere

Holmes says, “Students are always horrified at any change, but nothing drastic will happen. People were worried when we implemented risk managers and police officers, but that hasn’t turned out to be so bad. I would hope that any changes that we would make would be similar to those.” He adds, “I am confident that most of the changes will come through or from student groups, and they won’t want anything bad to happen to themselves.”

Shames wants the PCC to “attempt to maintain the unique character of Davidson’s social system while enacting proactive change which decreases liability and increases the benefit of being in a Patterson Court house. We need to change the system gradually. We are not at any sort of breaking point — looking to the future, we need to make as little change as possible. No one wants closed parties. If we wanted 100% coverage, we could do that. But no one wants that.”

Shandley stresses that student satisfaction is a priority. “This isn’t about change. Davidson is distinctive — open parties are a very valued part of the school ... the Court is the predominant social life for many students. I am just concerned about harmful behavior.”

Berries from page 16

In a column last week, you were talking about speaking to the Episcopal Diocese of Mississippi, and how they and the church in general have...All these programs, but they don’t do what they’re most qualified to do: to hold the “moral center.” What are American colleges and universities’ responsibilities in terms of imbuing their students with a sense of morality, with a sense of values? Certainly values. If they don’t have values, one wonders how they came into being. There ought to be things, there ought to be values, that are at the base of the charter. And these values ought to be talked about, and perhaps modified, certainly talked about and explored and thought about with some regularity. Just as you have Solidarity Week every year, and not just because there were freshmen who weren’t here last year and didn’t get it, but it’s for the seniors, too. And everybody needs to be reminded sort of, what the culture of this place is—some things we believe, strongly enough to stand up for, and certain things that are very un-Davidson. It doesn’t mean that nobody won’t do them, but it matters what response there is when they’re done. I think you can change the culture of the College as effectively as they’ve changed the atmosphere of the workplace, making smoking unacceptable. By the time they got around to passing laws that you may not smoke in public buildings, it was pretty much already accomplished. By communicating that smoking is a form of intrusion, and it’s not nice, they didn’t pass laws saying you couldn’t do it. It’s not a controlled substance, of course you can do it. More and more people were thinking, “Maybe I shouldn’t do it.” And the more that developed, the more pressure there came to be on those who, at an earlier time, would have polluted their neighbors’ air, but with equanimity. If you utter some of those awful words, and nobody applauds, and nobody takes a sudden breath as though “Oh my God!”, and nobody really warns you for the breach. You tend to start seeing it as a breach, and not as an assertion of something.

How about rappers who take those words and turn them into terms of empowerment, reclaiming that language from those who used it negatively? I’ve not seen it done in a societal way. Kids do it almost routinely, I mean, kids are vicious little bastards. It’s not at all uncommon for a kid to become known by his friends by a nickname that calls attention to a physical deformity or other infirmity. And the kid will call himself, you know, “Fatso,” or “Skinny,” or “Crip,” or whatever the thing is. And it does take the poison out of it, but in his circle. I don’t know that there’s anything that same kid could do to take the sting out of the word hurled at him, like an epithet, from an outsider. It’s almost easier to imbue the “T” words with poison than to detoxify those that are certified [with negative connotation]. Dick Gregory tried to take the sting out of “nigger” by writing a book with that title. It didn’t work. It still stings... I am somewhat amazed and mystified by the amount of power in that one word. It’s not like any other word in the language, as far as I can decipher. I don’t know any other word that has what is almost talismanic power. It’s like an imprecation, more than a word. It has magic, but only because those [who use it] give it magic. If it didn’t [have magic], it would just go away, in terms of its toxic power, it would go away. If you think about it, you can define the word any way you want to, and yet the definition... if you yell the definition at me, it stings less than the word. You cannot defy the word in a way that gives the synonym comparable power. That’s a pretty interesting phenomenon; I don’t know too many words like that. Not like “honkey” for white people. Yeah, I guess that was sort of invented to be a counter. There must have been a time when “kike” or “wop” or some of those [were more effective]. They’re all listed in Webster’s as obscenities. They have more of the power to define the person who uses them. Clearly the words themselves are denied, but only by definition, by the ability to define and by the acquiescence of the victim of the power. I don’t know, it’s really quite an interesting phenomenon. Every ethnic group, I suppose, at least most ethnic groups in America, have some word that hurts.

You’ve been writing columns for almost 30 years. What are the biggest social changes you’ve seen since you started? Which of those do you feel you’ve had some part in? I don’t imagine I’ve been part of any social change, really. I think the story of race relations has been one of the most consistently interesting. Whether it stands front and center, or goes on the back burner, it never really goes away in America. And it probably will not until we do reunite socially—and that won’t be an event; that’ll be when you get together a critical mass of humanity, to reach nirvana.

Daytime and Evening Childcare provided in the Lake Norman and surrounding areas.
- Flexible hours
- Good Pay
- Car needed

Call GRANDMOTHER'S INC.: 332-5386
Serving Charlotte and surrounding areas for 18 years.
Mon. - Fri. 9 - 5