THE DAVIDSONIAN

_NEWS

MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 1995

PCC meets about anti-frat Journal letter

By Russ Tarver

Phi Delta Theta Treasurer Stephen Shames called a special Patterson Court Council meeting on Thursday, December 8 to address issues
raised by a student in an opinion column published in the Davidson Journal.

Titled as “An Open Letter to Dean Shandley,” junior Jamie McConnel’s article called for significant change from what the article
suggests is the exploitation of prospective fraternity members during pledge season. He related uncomfortable personal experiences as a pledge and
explained why he became independent his sophomore year. He ended the letter by urging Dean of Students Tom Shandley to
create an eating house system for men in order to eliminate the threat of hazing.

After first reading this letter on December 6, Shames took immediate action. “I picked it up and flipped through it,
then made 15 or 20 copies and went to all of the fraternities and handed them to people, asking them
to comment. We didn’t want this kind of opinion to affect the spring pledge class adversely. The pledging system is
not indentured servitude as McConnel suggests.”

The next day, Shames met with Davidson Journal Editor Jerry Stockdale to find out why the letter was published and
if there was any editorial slant on the issue. “Stockdale was very receptive to our cause,” says Shames.

About the letter, Stockdale says, “I think there was fear that this was motivated by an anti-fraternity movement, and there
shouldn’t be because from my end there isn’t one. In retrospect, I wish I had held up publication and gotten
a counter-point opinion to place next to it.”

Stockdale intends to publish a pro-fraternity On The Campus column in the spring issue of the Journal. “I am open
to letters to the editor. The other point of view will give a fair chance to both sides.”

Dean Shandley says, “My first reaction was that I would have preferred that if it were truly an open letter
to me, that he talk to me. In a sense, that wasn’t a letter to me, rather, it was a
letter for whoever cared to read it concerning his experience. Having said that, it's his right to write what he
did, but I guess I just took it less as a letter to Dean Shandley and more as a letter
to 24,000 people.”

In order to alleviate fears that parents might have after reading the letter, Shames and the PCC elected to draft
a letter to be sent to all parents of freshmen males. The letter served to inform parents that hazing is
illegal and not condoned according to the Davidson College constitutional by-laws.

After a large percentage of the student body read the letter, rumors surfaced about an effort to abolish the Greek
system from the campus. Shandley denies allegations that he is involved with any such effort.

“The first time I saw the letter was after it was published,” says Shandley. “The Davidson Journal does its own
thing. I’m not anti-fraternity. I’ve worked with fraternities for my entire professional career. But I have high expectations for fraternities.
If there are groups that don’t want to follow the standards, then I am not going to ignore that.”

Shandley explains that as Davidson undergoes its self-study program, many social aspects of the school will be examined. “It is
important to understand that in that context, a group is looking at Patterson Court, not as an ‘either-or’ issue, but
to understand what it is and to make recommendations for improvement. There is currently no debate regarding the abolishment of
fraternities.”

Shandley has not received a letter or phone call from a parent or a trustee about the letter.

McConnel is studying in England this semester and was unavailable for comment.

Schuh receives major grant for student research

Dr. Merle Schuh, the college's James G. Martin professor, recently received a new $133,764 grant which will allow at least
six students to participate in chemistry research during the next three years. Many of Schuh’s former research assistants have successfully
pursued further Chemistry degrees and chemistry-related careers. The students learn computer modeling of protein systems and methods of protein isolation
and purification.

Delta continued from page 2

Rusk contends that the benefits of a sorority far outweigh those of an eating house. “The difference I see is
that eating houses don’t give you anything afterwards,” she says. She stresses the opportunities sororities offer, such as networking for
employment, service opportunities, and an emphasis on scholarship. Harvey contends that sororities foster a stronger bond among their sisters than
eating houses typically do among their members. “There’s a sense of community,” she says.

Junior Michele Carroll, a member of Connor, says sororities are “a good idea — eating houses are too big.” Other
Davidson women can decide whether Harvey’s efforts have merit at the campus forum on January 24.

Activities and Honors:

Interests, hobbies, ambitions:

Summer activities:

Comments:

Stewardship Information Sheet

Please fill out this form and return it to the Stewardship Office. Be sure to contact Meg Kimmel in the
Stewardship office at 892-2642 during the academic year to obtain the address of your donor(s) for thank-you letters.
Name: Class year:
Hometown: Major:

IF YOU HAVE A NAMED SCHOLARSHIP AND HAVE NOT TURNED IN A SHEET LIKE THIS, COME BY MEG KIMMEL’S OFFICE
IN GLASGOW HOUSE AND FILL ONE OUT TODAY. IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS CALL 892-2642 BETWEEN 8AM AND 5PM.
