THE DAVIDSONIAN

Women’s soccer can’t score a win

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The women’s soccer team is in the midst of a mini-slump, but it’s a slump against some of the best
soccer teams in the South.

WOMEN’S SOCCER

After a 1-0 home loss Wednesday against Georgia, the Wildcats lost 2-1 at UNCG Friday night before dropping a 2-0
game to Florida Sunday afternoon at home.

“We need a lot of chances to score,” coach Kevin Hundley said. “And it’s just difficult to create a lot
of quality scoring chances against these types of teams.”

Those three losses, however, followed a win Sunday at home against Georgia Southern to open the conference season.

The Wildcats (2-4-1) will now have a long week of practice before traveling to Charleston Southern Saturday afternoon. They then
return to conference play with a game at Appalachian State next Wednesday.

“The schedule will start getting kinder now,” Hundley said. “We need to regroup and refocus. ... We’ve chosen to play
the best teams in the region. We could have played a weaker schedule, but that’s not what I wanted to
do and that’s not what (the players) wanted to do.”

Saturday against Charleston Southern, the team will try to get its offense going again. Amy Kanoff scored the team’s only
goal of the week Friday against UNCG on a 20-yard kick in the first half. In that game, Davidson was
outshot 22-2.

Rugby schedule
Sept. 23 VS. UNCC
Sept. 30 at North Carolina
Oct. 14 VS. Washington & Lee
Oct. 21 VS. St. Andrew’s
Oct. 28 VS. Western Carolina
Nov. 4 VS. UNC-Wilmington

Program from page 10

ground vs. Sewanee. The Cats also sported two of the top four I-AA interception leaders, in senior linebacker Will Robinson
and freshman free safety Dan Dearing, each of them having picked two passes last week.

Maryville, perhaps still frustrated by their failure last week against North Greenville, foiled Davidson’s initial strategy, putting together an awesome
drive to start the game. Seven straight runs by quarterback Brandon Derrick (15 rushes for 84 yards and 4-for-7 passing
for 48 more, along with 2 TD passes and one scoring run) and tailback Jason Norris advanced the ball to
the Davidson 5-yard line, where Derrick hooked up with tight end Tony Shuler, giving Maryville a quick 7-0 advantage in
dominant fashion less than four minutes into the game.

Undaunted, Davidson fought right back, creating an impressive drive of their own, highlighted by a 15-yard connection from Wildcat quarterback
Tommy Dugan to freshman tight end Wesley Jones. However, the promising push concluded abruptly when Dugan’s pass was tipped at
the line of scrimmage and intercepted by Scot defensive back Chad Johnson at the Maryville 7.

The defense, although allowing a rather hefty 274 yards rushing, made some big plays, keeping the Scots from putting the
contest out of reach early. Outstanding individual performances were turned in by senior captains Bo Bartholomew (5 tackles), James Cassidy
(7), and Will Robinson (5). Sophomore linebackers Chris Hess and Gray Broughton pitched in as well, registering 8 and 7
takedowns, respectively. And last, but certainly not least, the outstanding freshmen Dearing (11 tackles) and Ben Spivey (11 monstrous hits
and one fumble recovery) were both immense on the defensive front. But that was not enough to capture a second
win.Landis attributed some of the muffs to the slick weather (parts of the game were played in monsoon-like downpours), but
at the same time lauded the Scots' effort. “Pay respect to Maryville, they were a great team, they did what
they had to do.”

Tasha Vasavada battles a Georgia player for the ball.

SPORTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1995

Rob Kosicki outshot 22-6 against Georgia. “Hopefully we’ll be able to take our frustrations out Saturday on Charleston Southern,” Hundley
said. Asked if he thought his players were getting a little down after three straight losses, Hundley said, “I hope
they are a little. But I also hope they realize that we’re better than this and we’re capable of being
a very good team.” The Wildcats don’t return home until Oct. 4 against N.C. State.

Rugby drops one in the muck
By WARREN BUFORD
Staff writer

Davidson rugby travelled to Boone on Saturday for an intense fight with Appalachian State. In the first match, the Mountaineers
narrowly tipped the Wildcats 17-15, but Davidson came back to win the second game 14-0.

“We were really anxious to get the first game started, because we were all cold, wet and ready to kick
the hell out of Appalachian State,” Thayer Long said. However, the Wildcats came out strong. Shortly after Matt Burkhardt converted
a three-point penalty kick, Jason Cody, a first-year wing, took a pass from Seth Carpenter, another first-year player, and scored
the first five-point try of the day. Burkhardt made the kick-after, giving the Wildcats a 10-0 lead.

“Scoring that first try gave us momentum and we used that to our advantage,” flanker Chris Smith said. The Wildcats
used this momentum to play solid defense and kept their 10-point lead into the second half.

In the second half, however, the Wildcats gave up 18 points after the break. The Mountaineers’ first try was a
penalty try, awarded by the referee because of dangerous play near the try zone, pushing the score to 10-7. Shortly
after, the Mountaineers, capitalizing on mistakes by the Wildcats, mostly caused by the ever-increasing rain, scored their second try which
put them into the lead with about 10 minutes left. Long gave the Wildcats life when he dove on a
ball in the try zone amidst many Mountaineers, giving the Wildcats a 15-12 lead. With three minutes left, however, a
Mountaineer wing slid into the try zone on the weak side for the deciding score.

Said Mike Ingram: “We should not have lost, especially after playing such a good game. I am disappointed and I
think others are as well.”

Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break Trips! Sell 8 Trips & Go Free! Best Trips & Prices! Bahamas, Cancun, Jamaica,
Florida! Call Spring Break Travel! 1-800-678-6386

For Sale:
1925 Upright Mahogany Piano $300 or best offer
Call 875-0410

Help Wanted:
Harpist
Would like harpist to entertain for home Christmas party.
Call 896-1661

Signups for the Residence Life Student Advisory Council
Sunday, September 17-Sunday, September 24
*Great way to get involved and provide input to the Residence Life Office.
*Membership is permanent unless you go abroad or would like to resign.
*Call Sara Beth Hamlin at 6573 or Dave Derrick at 6510 if you have questions or are interested.
