THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1995 15

BILTMORE AND MORE AND MORE
Travel to Asheville during the holiday season
By Christy SHI
Travel Correspondent

The upcoming break provides an excellent opportunity to explore Asheville. Located in the Central Mountain region of the state, this
area offers many sights and sounds. Plan to visit during the holiday season (from now until Christmas) and enjoy the
festivities.

ON THE ROAD AGAIN
Asheville’s biggest attraction by name, the Biltmore Estate. America’s largest privately-owned home, Biltmore hosts an elaborate Victorian Christmas during the
season. The essence of the estate emanates from the 255-room Biltmore House, which is “a European chateau built in French
Renaissance style by George Vanderbilt, grandson of tycoon Cornelius Vanderbilt.” Among the priceless antiques and art furnishing the home is
an ivory chess set used by Napoleon while in exile on the island of Saint Helena. During the holiday season,
be sure to visit the kitchen and catch a glimpse of a gingerbread replica of the mansion. Also located on
the estate is the Biltmore Winery, which includes its own visitor center, tasting room, and retail store where local vintage
can be purchased. I visited the winery several years ago and although I was too young to sample the wine,
I remember tasting the best grape juice of my life in that building. For information, call (800) 543-2961.

Below the entrance to Biltmore Estate lies Biltmore Village, a collection of restored Tudor houses, now turned into shops. A
ways up the road, on Macon Avenue, sits the famous Grove Park Inn. Built in 1913 from hand-hewn boulders, this
resort captures the heart of mountain elegance. Here also you can find an assortment of holiday activities. For information on
these, contact Dave Tomsky, (704) 252-2711 ext. 5007.

Asheville is home to the famous author of You Can Never Go Home Again and Look Homeward, Angel, Thomas Wolfe.
Visitors can tour the boarding house where he grew up, which he called ‘Dixieland’ in his writing. Wolfe’s name appears
everywhere throughout the town, from street names to Thomas Wolfe Auditorium at the Civic Center. At the Asheville Civic Center
this weekend (Nov. 24-26) is a juried craft show. The 22nd Annual High Country Christmas Art & Craft Show provides
an excellent opportunity to get Christmas shopping checked off your holiday ‘to-do-list’. M. Gail Gomez can give further details (704)
252-3880.

Asheville is easy to find. There are several options for getting there. I usually take 77 North to Statesville and
from there, I-40 West heads straight into Asheville. Be sure to check the weather before you go, since there might
be snow.

The Biltmore Estate.

College Kitchen
Pork tenderloin cuts the mustard
By Ros Kosicki AND JAY SHULTZ
Chefs-in-Residence

For those of you who have been writing in and giving us your thoughts, thanks for the input. We really
appreciate it. Some of you, and you know who you are, have been dying to make a pork dish, so
here it is. For this recipe, you will need the following ingredients:

1 lb. pork tenderloin
2 tbsp. butter or margarine
3/4 cup beef broth
3/4 cup heavy cream
1 tbsp. Dijon mustard
3/4 tsp. dried tarragon
Salt and pepper to taste
1 lb. bag of egg noodles, optional

Cut tenderloin into 1/2 inch thick slices. Slightly pound the pork slices with a meat mallet to tenderize. Why a
typical college student wouldn’t have a meat mallet, I don’t know, but for those of you who don’t have one,
use your hand or something. In a large skillet over medium-high heat, cook the pork in butter until it is
no longer pink (about 3-4 minutes per side). Remove pork to a serving dish and keep warm; discard drippings from
skillet. Using the same skillet, cook broth and tarragon over high heat for about five minutes. Reduce heat to medium,
add cream and mustard, and mix thoroughly. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Spoon mustard sauce over pork. We
recommend that you serve the pork with pasta, preferably egg noodles. Enjoy your pig, and don’t forget to keep sending
us letters. We also love e-mail. That’s JASHULTZ or ROKOSICKI for those morons who haven’t figured out how to address
a message to someone oncampus ... til we cook again. The Davidsonian wishes you and your loved ones a happy
Hanukkah, a merry Christmas, a happy New Year, and a wonderful holiday season. (We know we’re a little early —
but believe us, you’re going to need something to look forward to in the next few weeks.)

Postcards from the Edge
Garcons run a real tour de force
By Randy HARTWELL
Staff Writer

PARIS, FRANCE— It’s only 1:30, but a sizable crowd has gathered for the 4 o’clock start. German tourists in Birkenstocks,
Parisian grandmothers with yappy (French, what else?) poodles, and Japanese students alike jostle each other for a view of the
starting line. Gendarmes surround the Hotel de Ville, making sure no one disturbs the concentration of the contestants. They’ve been
training a long time for this, some for years, and to let anything ruin a chance at glory now would
be très triste. This is, after all, Paris’ Indy 500, its Pamplona Running of the Bulls. It’s the 19th Annual
Course des Serveuses et Garcons de Café de Paris, or the Waiter/Waitress Race.

The runners arrive in full uniform, though each is different depending on what cafe or restaurant they work in. The
girls from Hippopotamus, which is sort of like Parisian Shoney’s, wear t-shirts over their red polyester skirts that read “Course
des ‘Garcons’ de Cafe.” They’ll show who’s tougher; they are wearing high heels for all of the 8K run on
the Grands Boulevards, past the Louvre, over Pont Neuf, nothin’ but net. Some have special ‘rituals’ of preparation. Two garcons
in front of me do sprints, a serveuse has a last drag on a Marlboro. It’s almost four, and the
mayor and other dignitaries get ready for the whistle to blow. The runners are ready too, each tightly gripping a
tray laden with an opened bottle of Perrier, three glasses, and a napkin. This is the hard part. An 8K
race in uncomfortable work clothes is one thing. An 8K race in uncomfortable work clothes holding a full tray is
another. But it’s too late to back out now; the whistle has sounded — they’re off! Some are a little
too eager, and their trays topple in the first few feet, green Perrier glass shattering all over the ground. With
that kind of hustle, it makes you wonder why ordering a chocolat chaud takes so long. But they keep going,
all 400 of this year’s contestants. Once all have started, the green Propreté de Paris trucks follow behind, sweeping up
broken glass. The crowd disperses, since there’s not much else to see. But less than an hour later, the first
garcon has returned, tray, Perrier, and glasses intact. Incroyable! I can’t hear his name, but he receives a silver tray
for his efforts. Now he may still deliver that famous Parisian waiter attitude, but at least he’ll be quick about
it.

Ten from page 13
DUDUDUH!

1. The Natural. Undeniably overwrought and reviled by most critics, The Natural is still my favorite. Why? There’s something about
it, something magical. Maybe it’s the theme of redemption, maybe it’s the music, maybe it’s just a yearning for a
time when we all still dared to have heroes. I really can’t explain it. What I do know is that
every time I see it I still shed a tear or two, and I don’t even like baseball.

There you have it. Definitely not the ten greatest films of all time, they’re just my personal favorites. If you
have any free time check ‘em out.

And a Scott McKenzie theatre production in two acts of “The Gift of the Magi,” by O. Henry. The pageant
and dinner begins with a Trumpet Fanfare: “Bring on the Wassail!” Entertainment features musicians, dancers, an elaborate period set, rich
costumes and a talented cast presentation. The four-course Victorian Feast includes Wassail, traditional Roast Goose with all the trimmings, Tenderloin
of Beef and Flaming Plum Pudding. This very special holiday celebration will uplift the Christmas Spirit in everyone! Begins at
6:30 p.m., seating until 7:15; the evening concludes by 9:30. Price: $49 per person, excluding tax and gratuity. Mon., Dec.
4 - Mon., Dec. 18. ADVANCE RESERVATIONS REQUIRED.
