THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, APRIL 24, 1995 11

Music from the past into the future - Senior music majors play classic and original pieces

By Jay Hupson
Guest writer

Each year the spring semester is marked with recitals given by senior musicians. This year is no exception. Senior performance music majors are required to perform a recital in order to complete their major, and some senior non-music majors elect to perform in order to demonstrate their skills. Music majors Joanna Boyd, Jennifer Julyan, and Jim Moss have already performed their recitals. Performances by music major Eric Hall, and non-music majors Jennifer Hauser, and Melissa Ream are coming up.

For many of these students, these recitals mark the culmination of something that they have studied since they were little kids. They have all worked long and hard in order to gain such a high level of proficiency.

Joanna Boyd’s performance marked the debut of the senior recitals; she performed the first recital of the semester on April 8th. Ms. Boyd is a soprano under the tutelage of Diane Thornton. The program ranged from early Baroque sacred pieces by Johann Sebastian Bach to twentieth-century secular tunes by Benjamin Britten. She also performed pieces by Franz Joseph Haydn, George Frideric Handel, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, and Gustav Holst. She played two songs that were operatic arias, the most notable of which is “V’adoro” from Handel’s Giulio Cesare. In this piece, Ms. Boyd played the part of Cleopatra as she proclaims her love for Caesar. Accompanying her were freshman violinist Elizabeth Parker and pianist Cynthia Lawing.

Jennifer Lauren Julyan, a clarinet player studying under Christine Hall, performed pieces by German Robert Schumann, Englishman Ralph Vaughan Williams, and a quintet by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart on the following day. For the quintet, Ms. Julyan was joined by violinists Elizabeth Parker and Sarah Brewer, violist Molly McGehee, and cellist Angela Letizia. The work by Vaughan Williams, entitled Six Studies in English Folksong, was originally written for cello and piano, but has arrangements for other instruments such as the clarinet and tuba. The six movements of this piece are “founded on a strophic melody with a likeness to a type of folksong.” Mozart is regarded as “being the first to do justice to the capabilities of the clarinet as a solo instrument.” When listening to the interplay between the clarinet and the strings, this characteristic became evident.

Studying under Tim Gordon, saxophone player Jim Moss provided the most diverse program, including classical pieces, a jazz quartet, and one of his own compositions for solo piano. Mr. Moss composed his piece Soundtrack of a Nightmare during the course of his senior year. This piece is intended to take the listener “through the course of a not-so-restful night’s sleep.” The sleeper is continuously awakened by recurring nightmares which grow harsher and more disturbing as the night continues. Mr. Moss was joined by pianist Steve Krause, bassist Jonathan Pieslak, and drummer Karl Ruch for his jazz quartet. In this part of the concert, Mr. Moss performed well-known tunes such as Summertime by Dubose Hayward and George Gershwin, as well as pieces bySaxophone legends such as Charlie Parker and John Coltrane. Three more recitals in Hodson Hall are planned for this semester. Pianist Eric Hall will play this Friday night at 8 p.m., Pianist Jennifer Hauser will have her concert on May 2nd at 8 p.m., and for the last senior recital, French horn player Melissa Ream will perform on May 7 at 8 p.m.

Frolics from page 10

A little grumpy but held down her end well. With Worrell on vocals and acoustic guitar, the band filled out their sound nicely. The songs were sung with deadly accuracy from every low to every bright falsetto. This included the background vocals which were taken by the drummer. Nearing the end of their set, Worrell threw in some electric guitar and added distortion while maintaining the mellow element of the music. Although acoustic bands tend to have a generic sound, this one stood out not only by their solid performance but also because the overall sound seemed carefully planned.

The headlining act, G Love and Special Sauce, took the stage only after the appropriate arrangements had been made. Long before the band set foot in the building, incense was left to burn and various trinkets placed around the stage. The instruments looked ancient and eventually revealed a vintage sound. The whole atmosphere trapped the audience in some 70s lounge act, and with savage chops and a polyester suit, the headman completed the time-warp illusion. Seated at a stool with a harmonica hovering below his lips and a guitar strapped high on his stomach, G Love chanted stream of consciousness lyrics over a loose, jazzy-blues funk. Next to him, the bassist wandered across his upright’s neck, periodically breaking into an animated solo that left the crowd screaming. Behind these two, the drummer played a busy jazz beat that was specific to no particular song and held with the loose theme that the band adopted. With little melody and almost no variation in sound, the songs were hard to distinguish, even for those who knew the album. The crowd didn’t seem to notice and danced enthusiastically throughout. Some members of the audience took to the stage and, when not challenged, continued to enjoy themselves a lot closer to the band. It’s safe to say that G Love and Special Sauce was a success.

The party moved on into the Union, where the International Ball continued until 1 a.m. The large crowd was treated to salsa in several forms, including the music of a Latino band as well as the kind with chili. With a full dance floor, this proved to be one of the better-attended Union dances and set the stage for Saturday’s festivities.

Philip Levine, winner of the 1991 National Book Award for Poetry and the 1994 Pulitzer Prize for Poetry, will give a reading of his poetry and present the Vereen Bell Awards Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. All are invited.