THE DAVIDSONIAN. NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1995

Davidson stinks
“Maybe it’s just a good year for skunks”
By JASON MCMULLAN
Staff Writer

Yes, the rumor is true. Davidson College has been invaded. They can be seen everywhere—wandering in front of Chambers, lingering
behind the dorms, stretching their legs on Richardson Field. No longer content to hide passively in the shadows, they now
boldly stroll in the moonlight.

No, the invaders are not freshmen, but skunks. The cute little critters have been overly abundant this fall, and no
one is sure why. Sure, there are plenty of speculations and educated guesses; people have proposed everything from a cool,
wet spring to the new abundance of trash from students moving in.

Professor Verna Case, Davidson’s resident animal behavior expert, and Professor Mark Stanback, a vertebrate field zoologist, think the best explanation
is area deforestation from recent construction. Case offers a lack of predators as another explanation. Foxes prey on most smaller,
slower animals, including skunks. However, because of their pungent spray, skunks in general are pretty safe from predators. Stanback speculates
that “maybe it’s just a good year for skunks.”

Both professors describe these animals as opportunistic and highly adaptable. Skunks are omnivores, meaning they will eat anything that they
can get in their mouth. The glut of garbage in dumpsters and trash around Patterson Court houses provide a bountiful
buffet for the skunks.

As for avoiding the spray if one of these creatures is encountered on a romantic moon-lit stroll, make no sudden
movements. “Let the skunk go about its business, and don’t do anything to make him feel threatened,” suggests Case. “Leave
it alone,” agrees Stanback. “It probably won’t attack, but will come after you if it feels cornered. If you ever
see a skunk coming for you, it’ll probably squirt pretty soon,” he warns.

If one gets sprayed, there is one suggested remedy: bathing in tomato juice. “I guess there is something about the
chemical make-up of tomato juice that detoxifies the spray,” says Stanback. “But,” he adds, “you can bathe and bathe all
you want and will still stink.” As for clothes... burn them.

Thief from page 1
dents to call the police anytime they see someone who seems not to belong in the dorm. However, they discourage
students from confronting strangers. “I don’t have any reason to believe [the thief is violent],” says Moore. But he cautions
that if cornered, any thief can become violent.

Moore says the Campus Police have not increased security along Dorm Row because of the

RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING CORPS
MY DEGREE GOT ME THE INTERVIEW. ARMY ROTC GOT ME THE JOB.

Things got pretty competitive for this job. I'm sure my college degree and good grades kept me in the running.
But in the end, it was the leadership and management experience I got through Army ROTC that won them over.

EXCELLENCE
You can begin to develop impressive leadership skills with an Army ROTC elective. Register now without obligation.

COURSE YOU CAN TAKE.
Enroll in MIL 101 - U.S. Army Today! Participation in the Rappelling Clinic satisfies 1 credit requirement for Lifetime Sport.For
more information, call Captain Sean Lynch at 892-2165, or stop by the Army ROTC office in Rm. 2, basement of
Belk Hall.

Sentelle thefts. “We wouldn’t have been in the dorm,” he says. Moore also believes that the students do not want
police officers patrolling the dorm rooms at night. According to Moore, the card-access security system “is only as good as
the people who use it.” Moore and Thrower are not considering changing the dorm security system anytime soon. For instance,
both men say they don’t have the resources or personnel to post a guard at each entrance to every dorm.
Moore considers the card-access system to be very effective despite the recent robberies. “Larcenies from dorm rooms the year after
the card was put in went down 80 percent,” he says.

As of Friday afternoon, the police were examining the printout of 120 students who ran their cards through Sentelle’s front
and back doors on Tuesday between 12 AM and 6 AM. “We’re investigating it [the robbery] and doing all we
can with the information we have at this point.” The police are asking students who entered or left Sentelle between
those hours if they noticed any strangers hanging around Sentelle and if they could provide a description of whom they
saw.

Davidson Outdoors sponsors training course

Davidson Outdoors will be hosting an intensive 36-hour backcountry emergency medical training course. The 36-hour course in Wilderness Advanced First
Aid (WAFA) will take place in Davidson from October 7th to the 10th. Wilderness Medical Associates will provide the instruction
for the course. According to Wilderness Medical Associates’ Leslie McClain, Wilderness Medicine differs from regular first aid in three respects.
First, transport times are measured in hours and days rather than minutes. Second, severe environments significantly increase the complexity, pressure,
and danger to patients and rescuers. And third, limited equipment makes improvisation and resourcefulness essential.

The course will have morning lectures, while the afternoons will be spent applying the information from lecture. At least one
realistic simulation, complete with fake wounds and stage blood, will be conducted. This course is recommended for all outdoor enthusiasts
and others who spend time in remote areas. Graduates will be certified by Wilderness Medical Associates.

Moore warns that there is a “fair chance” that whoever committed the Sentelle thefts will return, because the thief will
feel he has gotten away with the crime and that Davidson is an easy target. On Friday morning, a student
on Third West reported being awakened by a stranger who entered his room at four AM. The stranger left as
soon as the student woke up and did not steal anything from the room. Moore says that normally he would
simply consider this a case of a drunk student wandering into the wrong room, but given the events of Tuesday
morning, he is not ruling out that the two events were committed by the same individual. A strong link between
the events of Tuesday and Thursday night is “possible, given the time of morning,” says Moore.

Do you love to travel? Do you love sports? Are you interested in being a women’s basketball manager? Call Jennifer
Roos -2087.
