THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1995 15

Rugby
By WARREN BURFORD
Staff Writer

While most of the festivities for Homecoming were centered around Richardson Field, the rugby team was taking on Washington & Lee on the intramural fields. In sloppy weather, the Wildcats fell 10-6. It was the fourth game of slipping and sliding in ankle-deep puddles for the backs and rucking over mud for the forwards. And like the other games, the conditions forced both teams to alter offensive strategies and rely on tough defense.

Said defender Chris Smith: “We had to go out there, hit hard and wrap up any sucker who gets the ball. For the most part, we did that well ... I heard some bones crack.”

It was a breakdown in the Wildcats' defense, however, that gave the Generals their first try shortly after the beginning of the game. The wing slipped by Davidson’s backs, faked a pass to the left, and placed the ball down in the far corner. Their second try came in a similar fashion.

In the last 10 minutes of the first half, Davidson sped up the tempo and kept the ball on the Generals’ side of the field. Forwards Jonathan Sipling, Roger Mills, and Mike Ingram seemed to make every ruck, and backs Seth Clippard, Garret DePiper, and Ben Hill ran hard toward the try zone. But it was freshman standout Matt Burckhardt who kicked the two penalties worth three points each, leading to a 10-6 halftime score.

The halftime festivities were canceled because of the poor field conditions. Fans stayed around, hoping that the second half would provide enough excitement. One fan was overheard to say, “The first half was great because the players slipped and slid in and out of puddles. It looked kind of fun.”

Neither team was able to score in the second half, but both had good chances. The Wildcats controlled the ball in the last 15 minutes and had ample chances to win the game with a five-point try. “We played all out in the end,” Tom Shelburne said. “We deserved a try and a Homecoming win.”

Shelburne, incidentally, takes his game to a different level when he joins the Army in a couple of weeks. Davidson will take its frustration to the intramural field next weekend and hopes to take it out on St. Andrews.

Women’s Tennis Back on the Court
By KIRSTYN LEUNER
Staff Writer

Davidson’s women’s tennis team is back.

Sporting a roster that includes nine zealous freshmen and eight returning upperclassmen, this year’s lineup looks fairly formidable. Coach Caroline Price has already tested the depth of her team in two tournaments this fall: the James Madison Invitational and the Virginia Tech Invitational. On both occasions, the Wildcats made impressive appearances.

At James Madison, in the first of three fall tennis tournaments, freshman Clara Marks marched through the competition at No. 6 singles, beating James Madison’s Jamie Marlow 6-3, 6-4 in the finals. Also, sophomore Creecy Chandler and senior Jane Stubbs advanced to the finals of their singles draws and finished the tournament in second place. The last Davidson match of the tournament was at No. 4 doubles, featuring Lindsay Cohen and Kirstyn Leuner, who fell to Penn State and settled for second place.

Davidson’s more recent excursion was to Virginia Tech in a tournament that included eight singles and four doubles flights, just as the James Madison tournament.Matches were best two-of-three sets, while doubles were eight-game pro-sets. Sophomore Ashley Maner represented the Wildcats at No. 1 singles. After being knocked out of the main draw by the eventual winner from the Hokies, Maner proceeded to do some knocking out of her own, winning the consolation draw 6-0, 6-2 over Marshall’s top player. Marks ran through the consolation draw also and finished fifth. Lynne Shore and freshman Dana Casner inflicted enough damage to finish third in their singles flights. With her only loss coming in the second round to Virginia Tech, Casner won 6-4, 6-0 in her final match. Shore, at No. 5 singles, was beaten in the semifinals before winning 6-3, 6-3 in her last match. At No. 7, Chandler and Cohen were both entered in the same draw, raising the possibility of a Davidson face-off. The possibility was realized in a playoff for third and fourth places. It was the second time in two tournaments that the two have run into each other, and Chandler ran her record to 2-0. Three freshmen, Amber Bradford, Claire Cheatwood, and Kirstyn Leuner, took second place in their singles flights. Bradford barely missed the winner’s plaque, falling 6-2, 3-6, 6-7 to a Tennessee-Chattanooga player. With three of the four doubles teams featuring new pairings, the competition yielded positive results in intense matches. The one experienced team, Shore and Chandler, lost only seven games in their first two matches, before falling to James Madison in the final. The No. 2 team of Casner and Bradford also lost in the finals to James Madison, but the No. 1 and No. 3 teams struggled some. With this recent success, the Wildcats are preparing and looking forward to their next tournament, which will be held here on Parents’ Weekend.

Golfers
By John Roe
Staff Writer

Golf coach Joe Mark did not believe his team could break the 300 mark during one of his team’s rounds this season. In fact, he was so confident with his prediction that he promised to shave his head if the golfers accomplished that feat. Recently, the clippers were brought out, and now, Mark can be seen around campus sporting a hat. The team broke 300 on the first day of the Musgrove Hill Tournament, coming in at 298. “This was by far one of our best tournaments, and I was very pleased with our consistent play,” Mark said. The golfers wrapped up the second day of the tournament with a 322 for an impressive combined two-day total of 620. Cabell Fisher led the team with a 152, followed by Jason Lina and David Alexander, who shot 156 and 157, respectively. The team finished 10th in a very competitive field. On October 2 and 3, the squad had another impressive showing at Campbell. The Wildcats finished at 626, placing in front of Southern Conference foes Western Carolina and The Citadel. With three tournaments left this fall, the squad has time to improve on their already impressive season. The Wildcats head to Radford next, then host a tournament at River Run Country Club November 6-7. They wrap up the fall season November 13-14 at Charleston Southern.

Help Wanted - Shoney's - Cornelius
Now taking applications. Servers, Hosts, Hostesses, Washers, Cooks needed. Apply on location or call 999-9999.

Spring Break
Organize a small group and earn a FREE trip plus commissions! Call 1-800-822-0321. Nassau, Paradise Island, Cancun, and Jamaica from $299.00. Air, Hotel, Transfers, Parties, and More!

Connor Girls and Freshwomen:
FORMAL DRESSES — (Some 50% Off)
Open Mon-Sat, 10-6
Layaway Available
106 South Main Street
896-8860