THE DAVIDSONIAN

As soon as I walked out of Belk dorm on my way to class the other day, I knew something
wasn’t quite right. There on the lawn surrounding Chambers were dozens of what appeared to be piles of snow, and
it was eighty degrees! As I walked a little further I became aware that I wasn’t seeing piles of snow
at all, but I was no less perplexed. I seemed to be headed straight into a herd of albino elephant
seals. I kept on walking, though, and I was very relieved to discover that I was just seeing students engaging
in that age-old springtime college tradition of sunning, studying, and frolicking about the campus quad on one of the first
days of nice weather.

I have never really understood why students do this. I, too, am as white as rice and carry around an
extra layer of winter fat at the beginning of spring. And while you might find me sweatin’ to the oldies
in my room in front of my fluorescent desk lamp, you can for sure bet that you won’t catch me
laying around on the grass for all to see. It just doesn’t make any sense to me. After all, nobody
in high school studied out in their yard. I have thought long and hard about this matter, and the only
solution I could think of is that they think this is how they are supposed to behave in college. You
really can’t pick up a college brochure that doesn’t have students throwing frisbees and socializing out on some lawn.

However, this isn’t the only bizarre thing that is practiced by no one but college students. I have forever wondered
why so many people here wear Teva shoes, and I use the term “shoe” lightly. Whenever I ask one of
my friends how he can go to class wearing something that basically amounts to a high-top flip-flop, I usually hear
something like, “dude, they’re just so comfortable and hassle-free.” I’m sure a loin cloth is also comfortable and hassle-free, but
you won’t catch me wearing one for obvious reasons (and some not so obvious ones).

Another thing that baffles me is how many cars here have some type of rack on top of them. There
are racks that hold everything from bikes and surfboards to kayaks and water bongs. Why, just today I spotted a
few cars with ski racks on them. Now, I’ll have to check my calendar, but I could have sworn it
was April.

There is a certain group of college students that are more collegish than most. They are the people who refer
to concerts as “shows.” As in “man, I was in rare form at the Dead show last night,” or “that
Widespread show was sooooo kind.” These people can easily be spotted because they all have stickers of their favorite bands
on their cars. Believe it or not, I have even seen a couple of cars that have both stickers and
racks. As for these people, I believe they should just go ahead and get their diplomas because it would be
impossible for them to become any more collegiate.

I have been worrying that I have lagged behind my fellow college students in accepting these new ways of life.
Sure, I have a couple of shirts that contain the words “Coed Naked” followed by some sport, but that isn’t
enough. So I have strapped on some Tevas and tied a canoe to the roof of my car. As soon
as I cover my car with so many stickers that you can’t tell the make or model, I’m heading out
west to follow Phish. Maybe I’ll wear a loin cloth so I can get that all-over tan. See you in
Boulder.

Charles Barrus

OPINIONS...

College is sooo college

MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1995

DAVIDSON

22725

Distributed by TRIBUNE MEDIA SERVICES

ESTER PARTON

Defense Witness Pool...

HORACE WAMHOCKER

Has seen all of O.J.’s movies. Swears “on the Bible” he was having a drink with O.J. in a roadhouse
in Fontis between 10:00 and 11:00 on the night of the murders.

Rudell from page 7

choices, as each person could decide whether or not to become a “member.” But is this separatist attitude something we
wish to espouse? Is it best for Davidson? A program that participants must choose to buy into cannot guarantee financial
stability. However, a program that everyone buys into ensures that the budget will be met, eliminating the realistic prospect of
forcing some groups to pay higher fees to make up the difference.

Sure, 200 Independents might purchase membership. So could 100. And who pays extra when the program grows insolvent? If the
Administration lacks the money to pay for this policy now, then don’t be surprised when some students inherit a greater
financial burden later. Without surveying the student population, one cannot possibly discern the degree of support for the current plan.
A smaller price for a larger population will be more attractive to both school and students.

Total membership in the six on-campus fraternities and three women’s eating houses (including participating freshmen) equals roughly 900 people this
semester. Independents, BSC, and FIJI make up the remaining 600 students. Considering that about 70% of this year’s freshmen joined
a house, total Court membership equaled about 600 people during the first semester. Therefore, there were approximately...Approximately 475 Independents, BSC
members, and FIJI members last semester. (These totals are cautiously low so as to better sustain a balanced budget). The
current policy revision asks the nine on-campus houses to pay $500 each, but this fee is simply transferred from a
different charge; hence, this is not an additional payment. Our proposal calls for the same. Our plan goes one step
further by reducing individuals’ fees across the board. We request that Court members pay $4.50 per semester, while all other
students will pay $10 per semester in order to secure Court access. The following figures indicate a $1,300 first semester
deficit balanced by a $1,300 second semester surplus:

Fall Semester—>(9 X $500) + (600 X $4.50) + (475 X $10) = $20,700
Spring Semester—>(9 X $500) + (900 X $4.50) + (600 X $10) = $23,300

Rather than ask people to sign on or stay away, we should take the approach of calling everyone a “member”
from the start. A few dollars would be tacked on to everyone’s tuition bill, and a liability form could be
filled out later as a mere formality. NO ONE IS FORCED TO PAY INTO OUR PLAN. Essentially, you can get
your money back if you do not sign the liability form. But one can gather that our rates are lower
and more equitable than those previously offered. We believe that our proposal will make Patterson Court more enjoyable, more affordable,
and more inclusive. It stresses our need to not only welcome all Davidson students into the fold, but encourage them
as well. We hope that its potential benefits and shortcomings will be studied so that we may all grow more
focused in our task at hand.

Sincerely,
B.J. Rudell, Senior Class President
Mary Baxter, Independent student
Brandon Clarke, Independent Senator-Elect
Saad Gul, Head Independent Senator
Dennis Seavers, Chancellor of the SGA
Gautam Srinivasan, Senior Senator
Heyward Carter

The Dave Zimmerman guide to street wine

Recently, an article explaining the complexities of malt-liquor came to my attention. A friend of mine, the recently graduated Dave
Zimmerman, asked me to help him compile a list of worthy street wines as a service to the Davidson community.
Since no street wine tastes anything like wine, here is a list of some of the better-known street wines to
help you choose what to drink with dinner tonight.

Nightrain: Just as George Washington was the father of our country, Nightrain is the father of street wines. Smooth, drinkable,
and potent, it has been the drink of choice for winos for over 50 years. Guns ‘N’ Roses wrote a
song extolling its virtues (chorus: I’m ready to crash and burn, I never learn) so it must be good. Great
for sitting around and passing out with the boys.

Wild Irish Rose: I have never been to Ireland, but I bet even the Irish know better than to drink
this stuff. Tastes like a mix between Cherry Kool-Aid and battery acid, which is what it was used for in
World War II. It does have a nice aftertaste, until you throw up. Makes for a pleasant evening over the
toilet.

White Rocket: The absolute worst. Even Slash doesn’t drink this nectar o’ the street. If you are unfortunate enough to
ingest White Rocket, do not smoke for 72 hours, as the main ingredient is gasoline. The very sight has been
known to cause projectile vomiting and prolonged comas. If this is all you can afford, the College will give you
a grant.

Thunderbird: A pretender to Nightrain throne. Deceptively lethal, Thunderbird is the leading cause of spontaneous hobo combustion. Often used as
a herbicide, it is the only one of the wines that tastes anything remotely like wine, but as the nausea
sets in you wonder why they bother. It comes in one and two liter jugs, which at five dollars a
pop is a cheap way to commit suicide.

Mad Dog 20/20: The choice of a new generation. Doesn’t even pretend to be wine. With flavors like “Kiwi-Lemon” and
“Guava-Mung Berry,” the fruit juice masks the taste of the rubbing alcohol, making it very dangerous. Derives its name from
the fact that right before you pass out in the yard, you foam at the mouth. Has a nice flask-shaped
bottle, convenient for chugging, or other alcohol-related activities.

Fuki Plum, Rice: The name says it all. The Japanese make a good car, but they sure can’t make street
wine. Fuki was originally a method of honorable suicide. One sip of Fuki Saki explains why hari-kari became so popular.
Not particularly potent, but the taste of fermented rice will get you every time. No red-blooded American bum would be
caught dead on a park bench with this stuff.

Cisco and Boone’s Farm: A waste of three dollars. These two only have 10% and 8% alcohol, as opposed to
the 22% for White Rocket. They were marketed mainly for rich prep-school girls rebelling against their parents. Boone’s Farm and
Cisco are not a total loss, however, as both go well on Wheaties, making them an important part of this
balanced breakfast.

A note on Moonshine: Never, under any circumstances, drink Moonshine or anything else served to you in a Mason jar.
People who drink Moonshine think Deliverance is a love story and that it’s normal to go blind at 20. Personally,
I would rather eat a paint chip salad.

Here endeth the lesson. Any further questions can be answered by Igor, who hangs out in the ditch behind Dover’s.
Bon appetit, and remember: Hard before beer, you’re in the clear; beer before hard, you’re in the yard.

Write for Opinions. Make a difference. Call x2148.
