THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, APRIL 3, 1995 14

Sailing takes third Inter

By ANDREW COLE
Sports writer

Over the last three weekends, Davidson sailing competed once at home and twice at Clemson. After a second place at Charleston before spring break, Davidson followed up with another second at Clemson and a third at home to qualify second behind College of Charleston for the SAISA Spring Dinghy Championships.

SAILING

This past weekend, the team competed in the second Intersectional regatta of the season. Intersectional regattas are used for national rankings throughout the season. Davidson placed a close third, merely two points behind The Citadel. College of Charleston won both divisions to take the overall win.

Sailing for Davidson were seniors Lara Onkey and Dave Saudek in their final regular season regatta. Joining them were sophomore Graham Ernst and freshman Steinen Gerla.

Both divisions started well and were second for most of the regatta, but in the final races, strong finishes by The Citadel dropped Davidson into third.

Fourth through sixth were Ohio Wesleyan, Clemson, and Georgia Tech.

Davidson will face The Citadel, Clemson, College of Charleston, Eckerd, Rollins, South Florida, and Florida this weekend.

The top two teams qualify for the National Championships in Alametos Bay, Calif., where the top 16 teams in the nation will come together in late May.

~

Dave Saudek sails with a friend.

sectional

kk
=

Rob Kosicki

Women's lacrosse struggles some more

By MARY-ELISE BRUMFIELD
Sports writer

The women’s lacrosse team had yet another disappointing weekend when it lost 16-4 at Richmond on Saturday.

LACROSSE

The road game dropped Davidson’s overall record to 1-7. It was not, however, a total disappointment as head coach Nancy Billger said that the team played extremely well.

With a halftime score of 10-1, the Wildcats managed to score three times in the first 20 minutes of the second half without letting the Spiders score once.

Sarah Hogan and Megan Snyder each scored one goal and senior co-captain Nancy Hilles nailed the other two.

The Wildcats hit the road twice this week, Thursday at 3:30 p.m. against Guilford and Sunday at 1 p.m. at Virginia Tech.

Billger said that she is hopeful about these two upcoming games and is positive that the whole game against Guilford can be like the second half of the game against Richmond.

WRITE FOR SPORTS. CALL SCHOON.

By JOHN ROE

Outdoors Columnist

One day last fall, as I walked along the bank of Lake Norman, I noticed an old man standing under a tree behind me.

THE GREAT OUTDOORS

“Have ya been fishin’?” he hollered.

I looked down at my fishing rod and tackle box, then looked back at the old man and answered, “Yeah, but they weren’t biting.”

“Well, if you knew any better, you'd take yourself to another fishin’ hole. That Lake Norman — it’s known as the Dead Sea around here. There ain’t no fish over a foot long in there,” the local informed me.

“Why’s that?” I asked.

“Don’t know myself, but the fish, they just don’t bite.”

I thanked the man for his advice and began to walk back to my truck. As I looked out at the lake, I noticed all of the houses, boat docks, and cleared shoreline. At that moment, I realized how residential the lake actually was.

It is not remote, such as some of the lakes in Canada I have fished. With its red clay banks and ugly apartments, it does not even compare to the secluded mountain lakes of Wyoming.

But one thing I have noticed is — there are fish in there!

Just the other day after class, I was inspired by the warm weather to wet a line, so I took a couple of friends with me to a cove on the lake. When we arrived, I noticed that, although there are houses and boat docks, there is still some very good fishing structure.

I noticed many sand and rock points along with submerged stumps and fallen trees. While the sand points are ideal for spawning sites, the rock points attract bait fish and crayfish. If these two points exist near one another, or are combined on the same point, there exists an excellent fishing situation.

The addition of stumps and fallen trees only adds to the point’s productivity by giving game fish places to ambush their prey.

After studying the shoreline structure, I spotted a fallen tree in the water lying across a sand and rock point. I cast to the other tree, began my retrieve and immediately felt a thump on the other end.

I reared back to set the hook, kept steady pressure on the line and finally lifted the largemouth bass out of the water. Just after I released my fish, my buddy pulled a very large black crappie from a submerged stump.

In just two minutes of fishing, we had already proven that old man wrong. There are fish in Lake Norman, and all it takes to catch them is some effort and careful observation. Try to study the shoreline structure and concentrate your efforts in the “fishy” looking areas.

Use lures that imitate a bait fish, such as Rapala and Tiny Trap, or lures that look like crayfish, such as Rebel Crawdad.

The main game fish in the lake are bass and crappie, but there are numerous bluegill, catfish, and carp, as well.

Upon first sight, Lake Norman might look like the Dead Sea. But if you analyze the lake closely, you can catch fish there consistently. Finding new areas to fish is as much of a sport as pulling in a fish. Finding these areas, however, is the first step to a successful fishing trip.

Catching the fish is merely icing on the cake.

KATHERINE RATLIFF JEWELRY SHOW

SATURDAY APRIL 8th 10-6 pm

106 South Main Street
Open Mon.-Sat., 10-6
Layaway Available

896-8860