14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Tennis nets season’s first win over UNCG
By Scott TONIDANDEL
Sports writer

The men’s tennis team swept a 7-0 win over UNC-Greensboro Sunday at home, redeeming themselves for a tough Saturday loss
to Virginia.

MEN'S TENNIS

Saturday, the ACC Cavaliers proved to be too much for the Wildcats and won 7-0. Davidson, however, did win one
doubles match as freshmen Ted Kaplan and Jeff Tonidandel won 8-5 at the No. 3 doubles spot. Even though there
were no other victories, the rest of the matches were well played. “This was the best doubles we have played
all year,” coach Jeff Frank said.

Sunday, the Wildcats dominated UNCG, continuing their strong doubles play as Bill Mitchem and Dan Parham dominated at No. 2,
while Kaplan and Tonidandel overcame an early deficit for their second straight win. Davidson’s good fortune carried over to the
singles, as the team swept all six singles matches. The match marked the victorious return of senior co-captain Dan Grinnan,
who came back from a knee injury. “The knee felt good,” Grinnan said. “It was just nice to go out
there and win one.”

The Wildcats next play Saturday at home against Washington and Lee.

Cats suffer two more league losses
By Mike GUGGENHEIMER
Sports writer

After two more tough battles, the women’s basketball team was left still without a win in the Southern Conference.

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL

Saturday night, Davidson lost at UT-Chattanooga, 83-66. The Wildcats (4-19, 0-11 conference) were led by Kristen Ferrucci with 22 points.
The Moccasins (9-14, 5-6) were led by Anita Overcash’s 18 points and Amber Test’s 17.

Earlier in the week, Davidson went up against Western Carolina at home. The game was close for the first 17
minutes, but, once again, the Wildcats fell behind and were forced to play catch-up for much of the game, eventually
losing 89-79. Davidson staged a strong run with about 12 minutes to play and cut the Catamounts lead to four,
but they were unable to cut the margin any further. Ferrucci led the Wildcats in that game, also, with a
career-high 24 points on nine of 13 shooting. Carolyn Kirsch recorded another double-double, racking up 16 points and 10 rebounds.
Also scoring in double-digits for Davidson was Tonya Sharpe with 13 and Elizabeth DuBose with 12, tying her career-high. Leading
the Catamounts were Karen Mason with 24 points and 17 rebounds, Missy Broy’s 17 points, Jennifer Adams with 12 and
LaShay Jackson with 11. The Wildcats shot 39 percent from the field and were barely outrebounded by Western Carolina, 43-42.

New Age HAIR DESIGNERS
A full service salon for men and women

DAVIDSON STUDENTS, GET READY FOR SPRING BREAK!!!

TANNING SPECIAL: 10 SESSIONS FOR $25 OR ONE MONTH OF UNLIMITED SESSIONS FOR $39

Remember, your Student I.D. gets you $1.00 off services

Select from a line of Paul Mitchell, Matrix, Logic, Nexus, Sebastion, and Goldwell hairstyling products. Manicures also available.

Southlake Shopping Center
Next to Harris Teeter
Cornelius, NC
892-3067

No. 22 looks to shoot.

SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1995

Brandon Clarke

Wrestlers ready to grapple in tournament

With just one more match before the Southern Conference tournament March 4-5 in Asheville, the wrestling team finds itself in
good position with confidence riding high and only a few injuries that should be healed before the tournament.

Last week, the Wildcats ran into some tough competition on the road, falling to Appalachian State on Wednesday before losing
to the Citadel and host UT-Chattanooga Saturday. The Moccasins are one of the best teams in the Southern Conference and
are likely to win the tournament. Although UTC was the betterteam by far, Davidson hung with them in several matches.
Barrett Rose wrestled well in the 119-pound weight class, and Sean Harvey lost 5-1 at 134 to the returning conference
champion. Earlier Saturday, the Wildcats went up against the Citadel for the third time this year. The team lost, but
again saw several good efforts. George Escaravage won at 142, and Andy Sterling also wrestled well. But Oddo made a
point to rest some guys, move others up a weight class, and allow some others who haven’t seen much action
to get in the lineup. After Wednesday’s match at Campbell, the squad will get about 10 days off from matches,
with just practice to attend to. "There’s probably not a guy on this team that isn’t looking forward to the
10 days of rest from competition,” Oddo said.

DAVINO'S
- Chicken Parmesan
- Lasagna
- Spaghetti with Marinara Sauce

Group Specials (10 or more)
Price (per person)
$5.00
$6.50
$6.50
*All specials include bread, salad, and drinks

Order 5 or more 16 inch, one topping pizzas for only $6.00 apiece!

STUDENTS DON'T FORGET!
Wednesday night is student night:
- $3.95 pitchers of beer
- $4.95 all you can eat pizza
15% OFF DINNER WITH THIS COUPON
892-4794

Club soccer shoots, scores
By Mary-Elise Brumfield
Sports writer

When one thinks of Davidson College, one word that might come to mind is “soccer.” As everyone knows, soccer is
a major sport at Davidson, and it always attracts many fans.

MEN'S CLUB SOCCER

But Davidson doesn’t only have an NCAA team. It also has a men’s club soccer team. The team is headed
by senior captains Jamal Jones and Charles Raynal and is coached by English professor Zoran Kuzmanovich. The team has a
roster of about 20 players, including freshmen Asher Wood and Britt Taylor, sophomore John Salter, juniors Ashley Tabb and Reed
Maltbie (who will both be captains next year), and seniors Alex Sullivan and Brian Vandersea. The team plays both indoor
and outdoor soccer. While the players compete as one team for the outdoor games in the fall and spring, they
divide up into two 10-man teams for the indoor games during the winter. Their regular season usually runs the whole
academic year, although this spring, the team will not be playing a full number of games due to “the crunch
that comes at that time,” Raynal said.

During the outdoor season, the squad plays in an adult men’s league in Charlotte comprised of several graduate teams. For
the indoor season, the two separate teams play against the Charlotte league in Huntersville. They also sometimes play against other
club teams, such as UNC, Duke, and Wake Forest. With the indoor season well underway, the two teams boast records
of 4-0 and 3-1 before Sunday’s games. Halfback Jones is very enthusiastic about the teams’ progress and about playing club
soccer in general. Having played soccer in high school, Jones came to Davidson wanting to continue playing the game. He
was not able to play for the varsity team, so he started club soccer in his sophomore year. Now he
says that playing club soccer “is pure pleasure. It’s a lot of fun... There’s no pressure like playing for Davidson.”
Defender Raynal, on the other hand, says he found out about club soccer at the activity fair in his freshman
year and has been on the team ever since. Said freshman Wood: “I think it’s a lot of fun... It’s
the only reason I do it. I’ve made friends with the upperclassmen, but that’s something that just happened on the
side.”
