2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1994

SGA: Students disagree with U.S. News ranking

By SARAH TEACHWORTH
Staff Writer

The exultation Davidson students received from last year’s ranking in U.S. News and World Report has experienced sudden death. Our
“Eighth Wonder of the World” t-shirts, proudly worn only days ago, now are memories of happier times. Students were asked
how they felt about the plummet into 21st place. Many students reacted in similar ways.

One student made an attempt at subtlety when she remarked, “It’s still hard as [expletive deleted]!” Perhaps Matthew Hobbie said
it best: “It doesn’t bother me personally, because I still know it’s a great place and I enjoy being here,
and I feel I am getting a very good education.”

By MATTHEW ERRICH
News Editor

The SGA held its first town meeting on Thursday evening in the Chambers Gallery. The meeting’s topic for discussion was
“Campus Beautification.” Approximately 30 students and administrators attended the meeting, including the SGA’s President Bill Gullan, Vice President Warren Buford,
and Chancellor Dennis Seavers; former Dean Rusk Program Director Ambassador Jack Perry; and Director of the Physical Plant Bob Collins.
Five of the 30 attendees were not members of the SGA or the ad hoc Committee on Campus Beautification.

The discussion was informal, with the participants sitting in a circle. The floor was open for anyone to bring up
an issue or area around campus which they felt needed to be improved. Gullan mentioned the poor condition of Covington
International, the three-hole golf course behind the senior apartments, and the fence surrounding the Computer Center on Main Street. Clair
Freeman brought up a lack of ashtrays outside the library and Chambers where students and professors smoke. Perry said the
cross-country trails need to be repaired. New Kappa Sigma Senator Tom Gibney suggested that riding mountain bikes along the trails
after a rainstorm may erode and damage the trails.

Collins attended the meeting to hear from students what they feel needs improvement and to answer specific questions students had.
Collins stated that cooperation and collective effort are needed to beautify the campus. “There is no need to point fingers,”
he said. “We all have to come together to get things done.” Most aesthetic problems with the campus can be
easily solved, according to Collins. These problem areas are “warts that can be fixed.”

Perry said that the town meeting is a good forum for students to build momentum for changes they would like
to see enacted. “I do appreciate the beauty of this campus. I think it could be prettier,” he said. “In
my 10 years here, I don’t know that campus beautification has been a high priority. Student interest would be a
great pressure on [President] John Kuykendall, the Trustees, and other committees.”

Gullan said he chose campus beautification as the first issue to be addressed at the town meeting to help the
newly formed ad hoc committee. “We wanted to give the committee just formed a springboard and suggestions.” The nature of
the problems with the campus requires a brainstorming session such as the one Thursday night. “All of the difficulties on
this campus are subtle. Looking for things that need help requires training. We need to have our eyes opened.”

Although the turnout for the town meeting was low and most participants were members of the SGA, Gullan said, “We
are thrilled with the quality of the discussion.” According to Gullan, the low turnout does not mean students are disinterested
in the concept of town meetings. The concern for the SGA, Gullan said, is “finding a time, issue, and forum
where discussion will be positive.”First came shock and disappointment, then acceptance, and lastly, adamant rejection of the accuracy of the
report which last year seemed so reliable. The majority of students quickly pointed out that the source of their disappointment
had to do with the judgments they expect the public and prospective students to make about the school. Others are
confident that anyone who knows anything about the school will know better than to put much stock in the report.
“You can’t describe Davidson in statistics,” Patricia Perkins said. Some pointed to our workload to prove that we’re just as
good as we ever were. “Everyone knows that Davidson is still hard. Our academics aren’t slipping,” said Marion Woodworth. Sara
Jane Spivey made no at-

Overall, Davidson students believe that prospective students are not drawn here by statistics. Freshman Brooke Bagwell pointed out that the
interesting people and great environment have not changed. She had no idea that we were ranked eighth at the time
of her application. Clair Freeman said, “I think that the decline is, in part, a blessing in disguise, because high
school seniors who are only interested in rankings won’t bother applying to Davidson, resulting in our future applicants choosing Davidson
for its qualities that cannot be measured by statistics.” Some students think that we will rise up the ranks once
more. Jim Smith said, “It lets Davidson look into the problem and get back up to the top.” Others believe
that our high ranking last year was a fluke. Either way, most Davidson students don’t depend on the judgment of
one magazine for pride in their school and their classmates.

Elections from page 1

not run out of bonus bucks and have unused meals on their cards. “I don’t think any independent is happy
about having to pay $10,” Luskey said of the new PCC plan. “There may be some alternative ways to go.”
Luskey added that he still has to do more research to determine what alternatives are actually available.

Problems with the process

Despite a record turnout of voters for last week’s elections, many felt that there were fundamental problems with the election
process. Complaints from the new senators center around a lack of publicity both before and during election day. Many of
them feel that not enough attention was given to the candidates’ speeches. Senators also thought that the freshmen were not
well informed of when and where they could vote.

Are the problems real?

SGA President Bill Gullan felt that the publicity was adequate. He and Vice President Warren Buford made hall visits; Election
Committee Chair Saad Gul and Chancellor Dennis Seavers posted flyers around campus; and an ad was placed in The Davidsonian.
An estimated 100 more students turned out to vote this year than last. In an attempt to remedy election day
problems, the SGA selections council has been trying to analyze and update existing laws as well as enforce those rules
and regulations which seem to work. Gullan says, “There are often unforeseen glitches during each election. What we’re concerned about
are structural problems that may or may not exist.”

Hours: 10-8 Monday-Friday
10-5 Saturday

Come Check Out Our Fall Merchandise!
Shops on the Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn
With this ad receive 15% off any fleece or winter jacket.

OUTDOORS Etc. Ltd
Davidson's Complete Outdoors Store
Telephone: 892-1848

Election Results

Freshman Senators
Lucy Sherman
John Ball
Conner Eldridge
Ann Harriott Fisher
Katie Sanderson
Jonathan Sipling

Independent Senators
Brian Luskey
Yanti Aardie
John Ballard
Brandon Clarke
John Hollan
Tim Saintsing

Honor Council
Matt Ellis
Susannah Herndon
Charlotte Hildebrand
Shakeem Lane

Seeking experienced overnight baby-sitter for occasional travel. Girls ages 5 and 7. Need responsible and fun sitter until 7:30 AM
and after 3:00 PM. Must have several references. Call 896-1661

$$ Stock Market $$ Internship
Learn to trade stocks and options intraday from professional traders. College credit. Cash for evening work. Trade your own account
for extra $$. 948-4302 or 892-5696 (Richard)
