THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1995

Davidson students play carols at opening ceremonies for last year’s Christmas in Davidson.

a COMME Gi of College Relations

Town to start Christmas celebrations early

Carols, cider, Christmas cookies, cocktails, and Santa Claus comin' to town

By MATTHEW EIRICH
News Editor

The Town of Davidson and Main Street merchants are planning “Christmas in Davidson” programs for the evenings of November 29
and 30 and December 1. All merchants will be open from 6:30-9 p.m.

Animal lovers will be especially interested in visiting the Public Library on Thursday evening for the Holiday Doggie Fashion Show.
Owners will have the opportunity to dress up their Fido or Spot to compete for the title of Christmas Dog
of the Year.

Along similar lines, Cotswold sheep from Ovis Farm will be in the Needlecraft Center for a Wonderful Curly Wool exhibit.

The Tom Clark Museum will raffle off some collectibles. Clark himself will be on hand Wednesday evening.

Actors from the Carolina Renaissance Festival will perform and entertain in front of the Marshall Case Building.

The Christa Faut Gallery will display a show entitled Designs in Gold and Silver.

Harpist Natalie Bizzell will play Christmas favorites at City Cotton, which will offer refreshments and sponsor a drawing for a
gift certificate.

The Davidson Village Inn will have “Readings by the Fire,” renditions of classic Christmas literature by members of the Davidson
Community Players. The Inn will also be sponsoring drawings for getaway travel packages.

Dream Weaver will offer tea and cookies while demonstrating the process of hand weaving ikat-dyed yarn.

Spot from the Spot the Dog series will appear at Main Street Books Wednesday evening, origami artist Jonathan Baxter Thursday,
and Dori Sanders will sign her new cookbook Friday.

Raeford’s Barber Shop will resound with gospel music, and the Soda Shop will feature Elvis’s musical stylings. The Village Store
will sponsor a Scottish party.

Carriage rides will also depart from the Duke Power building.

Gordon Clark is looking for the freshman bagpipe player for the festivities. If you are the boy, or you know
the boy, call 892-8044 for a gig.

Project Life adds 298 names to registry

By MATTHEW EIRICH
News Editor

Over 300 people entered the Morrison Room on Wednesday willing to be poked and prodded in support of the National
Bone Marrow Registry.

Davidson’s sixth annual Project Life typed 298 students to be added to the national registry.

Organizer Sarah Lindsay said of the turnout, “This is such an important cause, and I’m so happy so many people
have supported it. This is something Davidson should be really proud of.”

According to Lindsay, Project Life raised the necessary funds to pay for each student who was typed. Each test costs
around $60.

Project Life raised the money by selling Project Life t-shirts, a letter campaign, a raffle, and through the support of
Patterson Court houses.

Letters were written to alumni, friends of Davidson, and people whom organizers believed would be sympathetic to the cause.

Raffle tickets were also sold for $2 apiece, with the top two prizes being a hot air balloon ride and
two sets of two tickets to a Carolina Panthers game.

Associate Professor of French Dr. Carole Kruger won the hot air balloon ride, and students Jackie Rasulo and Lexie Beermann
won the tickets.

After six years, Project Life has added over 2,000 names to the national database of potential donors.

Five Davidson students have already donated bone marrow.
