THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 27, 1995 : 5

Nuevo restaurante en Cornelius
By Randy Hartwell
Staff writer

NAFTA’s influence continues to be felt in Cornelius with the arrival of yet another Hispanic-themed restaurant, Olé Olé. But Guillermo
Anzola, one of the restaurant’s two partners, insists that he is not competing for the same demographics as Chile Ristras
and El Cancun. “Ours is totally different,” he says.

Olé Olé, whose first and main branch is on Kings Drive in Charlotte, has now opened in what used to
be Woody’s in a shopping center off Highway 73 in Cornelius. Its emphasis is not Mexican, but more global: “Our
cuisine is more Spanish, more international,” says Anzola, who is Colombian. Olé Olé opened in Cornelius because “our location in
Charlotte was too crowded,” says the owner. This summer, he hopes to add a patio and to bring in live
(Spanish) music to take advantage of the weather.

The restaurant has used Woody’s airy space to its maximum, embellishing it with replicas of paintings by the Catalonian artist
Joan Miro and images of bullfights. A copy of Picasso’s Guernica hangs over the bar, this time in color. The
restaurant’s signature dish, Paella Valenciana, described on the menu as a “traditional recipe of seafood and saffron rice,” sells for
$8.95 at lunch and $12.95 at dinner. The lunch menu offers combination plates, most for $5.95. Dinner is more expensive,
running to $13.95 for a filet mignon. Of his kitchen, Anzola says, “My chef is doing always miracles!” Olé Olé
also offers many wines, most from Spain and Chile, as well as imported Mexican beers. Anzola encourages Davidson students to
come try his restaurant. “They can work on their Spanish,” he says.

Commentary
By MEREDITH STRONG & CAROLINE BYNUM

As we packed our bags for spring break none of us really knew what to expect from the upcoming week.
We hit the road and in seven hours arrived at Lakewood United Methodist Church in Jacksonville, Florida, which would be
our home for the next seven days. Our work week began early Monday morning when we met our construction manager,
John Davie. The witty Brit led us over to our construction site where we found just a concrete slab and
a pile of wood. So our group of nine girls and Ned went a-hammerin' an' nailin’. Goal in mind, we
worked hard days and slept as much as we could, but it was hard to compete with the construction going
on next door. We were good workers but nowhere near as skilled as the professionals. Davidson students began framing an
inner city house on Palmetto Street on Jacksonville’s Eastside.

Habitat for Humanity was founded in 1976 as a nonprofit, ecumenical Christian housing ministry that seeks to eliminate poverty housing
from the world and to make decent shelter a matter of conscience and action through building and renovation. Houses are
sold for $35,000 at no profit to the organization.

Announcement
Rising Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors: Sign-up for Class Senators and Honor Council elections Monday through Thursday in the Dean of
Students’ Office. Questions? Call Dennis (6511) or Saad (6099).Campus for a little repose and reflection.

Rob Kosicki — A hammer and a nail

Students choose hard labor over sunning on the beach for spring break, helping needy families, financed with affordable, no-interest mortgages.
Habitat exists in 41 countries under more than 1000 affiliates. Just this year, 12,000 homes have been built worldwide. Over
100,000 families now have homes thanks to Habitat. Nevertheless, millions worldwide still face a future robbed of hope by a
lack of adequate shelter. Some say the problem is too big, but Habitat has proven them wrong. Former president Jimmy
Carter, who has had a long-standing partnership with Habitat, said, “I don’t know of anything I’ve ever seen that more
vividly demonstrates love in action.” President Bill Clinton says, “Habitat for Humanity is arguably the most successful continuous community service
project in the history of the United States.”

“People say a neighborhood is bad, but we go in there and make it better. We are making a difference,”
said Frank Barker, Executive Director of Habitat for Humanity Jacksonville. Habitat has transformed five neighborhoods since its establishment in 1985;
crime rates have dropped and businesses have developed. It has grown to be the 8th largest affiliate in the nation.

This year was the first year that Davidson College has accepted the Collegiate Challenge. Collegiate Challenge, coordinated by the Campus
Chapters department of Habitat for Humanity, takes on college volunteers from all over the U.S. during their spring break. It
has grown into one of the largest school break work camp programs in the country. “It’s really great to see
kids give up their spring break to build affordable housing for people who are less fortunate than they are. They’re
out there with their smiling faces and sweating,” says Barker. 5,000 college kids are out there this year and they’ve
raised more than $300,000. We have totally bonded as a group. On our last day, we even provided furnishings for
a homeowner who had no decent furniture in her house by having it donated by a local Goodwill.

Students are raising funds, building houses, and having fun while working to further the mission of Habitat for Humanity. Davidson
College’s first chapter is currently being established. The goal of our campus chapter is to sponsor a house, adopt a
family, and watch it develop from the ground up with the hands of our students.

Adrienne Emmet
Charlotte Hildebrand
Lauren Ellis
Laurie Grief
Sara Beth Hamlin
Resident Advisors 1995-96

Class of 1998
Elizabeth Sale
Eric Sapp

Class of 1997
Liz Abernathy
Caroline Polster
Bridget Diani
Tara Smith
Maria More
James Smith

Class of 1996
Alexis De Vane
Steven Aldridge
LaTasha Jenkins
Jason Byasee
Alison Sabel
Geoffrey Carden
Susan Skaff
Marc LaFrance
Laura Williamson
Lucian Dervan
Bill Abrams
Steven Duncan
Dan Jonas

HELP WANTED!!
Men/Women earn up to $480 weekly assembling circuit boards/electronic components at home. Experience unnecessary, will train. Immediate openings in your
local area. Call 1-602-680-4647, Ext.102c

Student Discounted Airplane Fares!
NY-Paris...$409; NY-London...$299
Many other cities available. Call the student experts at TRAVEL SOLUTIONS today! (919) 510-5550
2801 Blue Ridge Road
Raleigh, NC 27607

VERMONT’S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT.
