THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 27, 1995

Many elements of the Contract with America have passed the House and are awaiting action in Senate committees. These measures
are stalled much as any past “fundamental” change has been; Congress is a deliberative body, not a blunt revolutionary instrument.
Government was meant to change slowly and modify new proposals. Slow progress on the Contract should be expected.

There are two economic elements of the Contract that are troubling: the failed balanced budget amendment, which may be recalled
to a vote later this year, and tax cuts for various groups. Both proposals are political gimmicks that do not
have economic merit.

The most foolish idea in the Contract is the balanced budget amendment. If passed and adopted by the states, it
would mandate a balanced federal budget. This sounds fairly reasonable. But if the amendment were adopted, it would set a
dangerous precedent for amending the Constitution. In the past, the Constitution has been amended mainly to ensure civil and voting
rights and to reshape procedures. Never, except for the failed 18th Amendment, has the Constitution been amended to seek a
specific policy objective. Bills and laws achieve policy objectives; constitutions are only broad frameworks that set guidelines for government operation.
Constitutions should protect rights and set procedure but never ensure a specific outcome. Congress must have total discretion over spending.

The amendment would also create a dilemma if the budget were not balanced. If this occurred, Congress would be brought
under federal court oversight. The federal courts, whose justices are appointed for life, would then design a budget to force
Congress to comply with the amendment. Basically, an unaccountable oligarchy of federal judges would rewrite and balance the federal budget,
which is the responsibility of elected Congress. The federal government would be prosecuting itself, and one branch of government would
be doing the job of another. Despite its packaging, the amendment is designed to put off hard choices until the
next election. The amendment provides no mechanism for balancing the budget. Congress would be no closer to balancing the budget
if the amendment passed than it would be before passage. Setting goals without creating means other than court intervention to
achieve them is foolish. The amendment would also allow “estimates” of revenues and expenditures to be used in budget calculations,
leading to more “voodoo economics.” Finally, nowhere is it written that the budget cannot be balanced. The budget can be
balanced whenever Congress governs responsibly, as in the 170 years of this country when the budget was usually balanced. Political
will, not an amendment, is needed to control federal spending.

The second folly in the Contract is tax cut proposals. The House has adopted cuts of $105 billion for families,
$45 billion for businesses, and $15 billion for wealthier Social Security recipients. This is exactly what Congress should not be
doing: reducing revenue while the five-year deficit remains at about $290 billion. Majority Leader Armey assures Americans that the cuts
will be offset by spending reductions. But based on the past behavior of Congress, an equal tradeoff between the two
is unlikely. These cuts are also skewed toward business, which hardly needs more corporate welfare, and the wealthy. The $500
child tax credit would apply to families making up to $250,000 a year, hardly subsistence living. Business already receives large
tax breaks at all levels of government in the forms of price supports, subsidies, grants, and tax credits. No mention
should be made of tax cuts for anyone for any reason before the budget is at a surplus again. It
will not be painless to hold taxes at their present levels and make cuts in entitlements, but governing is not
always easy. Tax cuts are an ill-considered gesture that ignore economic reality.

These are two examples of how Congress seeks to avoid responsibility for economic problems. Eliminating deficit spending should be the
first priority for Congress, yet there is little evidence of real progress toward this goal. As I mentioned in a
previous article, a flat cut in every item in the budget, including Social Security, would provide a real mechanism for
reducing the deficit. Lawmakers would not have to cut any items at all. Eventually, funding crunches would provide incentives to
eliminate programs and take a more responsible approach to budgeting.Serious look at our national priorities.
Kelly Tharrington

Costume party or reality?

Until now, I have had no reason to define my view of feminism. I believed in equality between men and
women, but the subject of feminism was distant to me. I would not have called myself a feminist. I saw
how those who did were shunned. They were considered troublemakers who just wanted something to complain about. Recently, I had
cause to rethink this and to define my beliefs.

As a Davidson College student, I was shocked and appalled by the number of male students who believe men are
better suited for the workplace and by the number of female students who go along with this mentality. I came
to Davidson believing I would be surrounded by some of the most intelligent and forward-minded people. I learned quickly that
intelligence does not imply open-mindedness. I was inundated by comments like “once my wife has kids, she will never have
more than a part-time job.” I learned to accept this because everyone is entitled to an opinion.

I began contemplating my own beliefs, though, and even raised my hand when one of my professors asked, “How many
of you consider yourself a feminist?” I had admitted my feminist views but still did not understand the entirety of
what this meant. I became more confident in stating that women have not reached an equal position with men in
the workplace, and that the United States is overall a patriarchal society. I met little strong disagreement. Most people respected
my right to an opinion as I had respected theirs—until I crossed the line.

I refused an invitation to the “Pimp and Ho’” party at one of the fraternities, where the object was for
each brother to invite three women that dressed up like prostitutes while he dressed as their pimp. To many, my
refusal was a blatant attempt to disrupt the fun of a group of college students. I had only discussed my
reason for not going with my roommate, my hall counselor, and three friends. I simply told my date that I
could not go, without giving a reason. I was making a stand for myself. However, I was not allowed to
avoid the party quietly. I was shunned by my friends who chose to attend and whose conversations centered around what
they were going to wear. If I mentioned that I turned down a date to the party, they rolled their
eyes and shot disapproving glances across the table.

I was confused and angered by the backlash I received. I was told “the party is only being done for
fun.” I was confused by the fact that a group of women with so much ambition and intelligence could allow
themselves to play the part of a prostitute for the night. It was not a simple costume party. I watched
many of the women pull down their spandex skirts or uncomfortably cross their arms over their chests as they ran
in heels to catch up to their date, who paraded among his friends, proud of his work. One woman was
told by an overly affectionate man that he normally does not act that way. Still, most women who attended said
they had a good time.

I did not understand how so many women could use the rights that women before them had won, and then
conform to such sexist attitudes. I did not understand why so many women were afraid to run the risk of
being called a feminist. It is easy for women such as Cathy Young to cite campus studies showing that “most
college women are quite confident of their ability to succeed in the workplace and to combine family and career.” But,
when “radical feminists seek to subordinate life to ideology,” Young calls them “vigilant watchdogs on the alert for signs of
sexism.” This is the core of the problem. As Paula Kamen writes, “Feminism is radical. It overturns tradition and age-old
notions of women’s proper place in society.” A change in attitude would concede that women are truly equal to men.
Proof of this attitude is not in statistics showing the increasing numbers of women in the workforce or their wages.
This attitude reveals itself in such events as “Pimp and Ho’” parties. Even if women and men were at the
same power and pecuniary level in the workplace, even if the same number of men as women stayed home to
care for their children, we cannot say that there is equality between men and women as long as men throw
“Pimp and Ho’” parties.
