THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, MAY 1, 1995
15

_ARTS & LIVING_

Senior exhibitionists
By Jacob ABRAHAM
Arts & Living Editor

The last four of this year’s senior exhibitions definitely demonstrated that the visual arts are alive and well at Davidson. I recently talked to four of the most promising artists of the class of 1995 about their work, their inspirations, and their plans for the future.

Texan Geoffrey McAllen chose to focus purely on abstract sculpture in his exhibition, The Autonomy Series. “There’s a real presence to sculptures, because they exist in real space, in the same space that people live and move in,” he explained. Claiming that his early forays into sculpture seemed contrived and coldly intellectual, he described his experience working with wax and bronze as a real learning process. “The first sculpture, Dry Form, got me thinking about the whole process. I felt like I was doing what I wanted with the materials, not letting them have a voice of their own.

“By the end of the process, I was pouring the molten wax directly into water. I tried to watch what the wax would do when it hit the water and figure out how it was forming those particular shapes. My goal was to act as a catalyst, getting the wax and bronze to speak for itself.”

Geoff sees this approach of letting the materials direct themselves, instead of imposing his own ideas on them, as something of a reaction to our technology-driven society. “People use things without really knowing what they are,” he said. “We spend all our time twisting things around into what we want them to be. I wanted to explore what would happen if we let things be what they want to be.”

He acknowledged the work of painter and sculptor Marcel Duchamp as most responsible in getting him to think about the whole artistic process. He also cited John Chamberlain and Peter Voulkos as major influences, since both artists attempt to enter into a dialogue with interesting, unconventional materials.

Memphis resident Kristen McColgan explored a broader range of mediums in her exhibition, which included oil paintings, lithographs, and sculpture. While the exhibition included some of her first abstract paintings, most of the oil paintings and lithographs were portraits. Portraiture has always been one of her favorite pastimes.

“When I was little I loved drawing people,” she explains. These days she usually recruits her friends as subjects or paints self-portraits. She feels that the best portraits of the exhibition, however, were two untitled pieces using posed models. Memories of childhood also influenced her two indoor sculptures, which mainly involved working with and contrasting textures. Cephalopod, consisting of a large steel shell with string knotted around the whole structure, borrowed its name from an ancient sea creature in a book she read as a child. The same book also inspired the title for Ordovician Swell and Crumble, a worm-like sculpture made of plastic and straw.

Her striking outdoor sculpture, Sisters Suggested, incorporated a series of casts of human faces and elbows mounted atop 16 different bronze structures. The curvilinear wire forms of the bronze gave the pieces their height and also endowed them with a certain feminine quality, hence the title. Kristen mentioned that she particularly identifies with female sculptors, including Eva Hesse and Louise Bourgeois. As far as portraits go, however, she pointed out that John Singer Sargent is her “all-time favorite painter” for his ability to capture the personality of his subjects with astounding precision.

Hailing from Richmond, Virginia, Carey Thompson also utilized a wide variety of materials and styles in her exhibition. Choosing works from her entire career at Davidson, she sought to represent the variety that characterizes her work. The untitledThe exhibition included etchings, oil paintings, graphite drawings, a collage, and a lithograph. Several of the pieces were abstract, while some were representational. Architecture shows up in several pieces; she based those works on direct observation of buildings, photographs she had taken, and imaginary buildings based on interesting patterns. Carey hopes to continue to explore some of the mediums that she used in her exhibition, and she expressed special interest in pursuing oil painting. A native of Boulder, Colorado, Alison Greenlee, her exhibition was focusing "pretty much on frogs." She seems to have quite a fascination with the small amphibians; various pieces depict frog busts, frog skeletons, frogs diving from stoves, and even a frog in flight. She employed a wide variety of materials in her work, including cardboard, wood, and pastels. Allison suggested that anyone interested in learning more about her exhibition drop by the Smith Gallery of the Visual Arts Center and see the little guys for themselves. After graduation, McColgan plans to take a break from art and study wildlife management or go to veterinary school. All the others expressed a desire to persist with their work. Thompson will probably hit grad school in a couple of years. Aside from continuing to make art, McAllen said he will spend some time getting over the stress of the college atmosphere, while Greenlee will hop on a VW bus and do some traveling once she gets her diploma.

GET READY FOR YOUR FORMALS AT... THE DUCHESS!
- Sculptured Nails
- French Manicures
- Pedicures
- Tanning Booth

International Employment Group
Located at The Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St., Cornelius, NC 28031
(704) 892-7030
Tuesday - Saturday

ON THE SCENE

A Concert of New Music by Davidson Students. Featuring performances by the Davidson College Concert Choir and members of the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra: 7:30-9 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

The Taming of the Shrew. Presented by the Performing Shakespeare class. 7:30-9:30 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

Catfish Jenkins plays Live Monday. 9:30 p.m.-midnight in the 900 Room.

Tuesday Coffee House. 8:30-11 a.m. in the 900 Room.

A Rap on Race, with James Baldwin, Margaret Mead, Piri Thomas, Alice Walker, and Gloria Anzaldua. Excerpts of manuscripts, plays, etc. for race discussion. 8:30 p.m. in the 900 Room, with a discussion to follow in the Big Screen Room.

The Taming of the Shrew. 7:30-9:30 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

Piano Recital by Jennifer Hauser. 8-9:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

Twenty-one-year-old night. 10:30-midnight in the 900 Room.

Wednesday Student Recital featuring Molly McGehee on viola and Rebekah Peeples on piano. 8-9:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

The Princess Bride. Featuring the late great Andre the Giant. 9:30-11:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Thursday Crop Lunch, 11 a.m.-2 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Piano Recital by Elizabeth Field, Andrew Sicora, and Amy Whitmire. 8-9:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

Friday Davidson College Concert Choir presents Fauré’s Requiem, conducted by Donna M. Di Grazia. 8-9:30 p.m. in DCPC.

George Ducas, a real Davidson favorite, will play at Coyote Joe’s in Charlotte. The show starts at 9 p.m.

Saturday Dance Troupe Performance. Various dancing acts, including ballet, tap, and classical. 7:30-9:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Sunday Nine Inch Nails concert with special opening acts O. Z. Willis and The Commodores. 10 p.m.-3 a.m. in the Residence Life Office, First Belk. Tickets by reservation only.

All Week Senior Exhibitions: Allison Greenlee. In the Edward M. Smith Gallery. Weekdays 10 a.m.-4 p.m., and weekends 2-5 p.m.

Jumpin’ Java Cafe in the Union Outpost. 8 p.m.-midnight on Monday and Tuesday, 9:30 p.m.-midnight on Thursday, and 2-6 p.m. on Saturday.

Upcoming
- Senior Horn Recital by Melissa Ream, French horn. Monday, May 8. 8-9:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall.
- DCPC Cookie Break. Thursday, May 11. 10-11 p.m. in the Union Lobby.
- Ice Cream Study Break. Friday, May 12. 10-11 p.m. in the Union Lobby.

CORRECTION: In last week's Davidsonian, Danny Newman was misquoted saying he views the failures of welfare as an "economic problem rather than a social problem." He meant it the other way around.