THE DAVIDSONIAN  
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1995

The Davidsonian  
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors  
MANDY CURTIS  
JEFF KENT

Opinions Editor  
DAVID SANTSCHI

Copy Editors  
ROBERT RAMSAY  
TERESA WHITE

Arts & Living Editors  
JACOB ABRAHAM  
WILLIAM ROBERT

Associate Editors  
JOHN COPENHAVER  
KATHERINE HASH  
RUSS TARVER

Sports Editor  
MATT PITZER

Advertising Managers  
WALT BARRON  
MARY CLARE JALONICK

News Editor  
CAROLINE BYNUM

Photography Editor  
ROB KOSICKI

Assistant News Editor  
MATTHEW EIRICH

Circulation Manager  
CRAIG MURPHY

Founded in 1914.  
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Accepting responsibility

We have a problem. Members of our community throw away too many recyclable goods. The length of time it has taken us to address this issue is embarrassing and confounds anyone concerned with the new movement on campus for a college-funded recycling program.

Obviously, we’ve attempted to institutionalize some sort of system that would better handle campus waste in past efforts of small and ill-funded (if at all funded) committees, as Maria Whitehead points out in her letter to the editors. Obviously, these committees have not and cannot handle the enormous task that should be treated as an obligation to the community. Obviously, students are indeed aware and concerned about the issue — not apathetic. Students have finally raised the white flag, not as a symbol of defeat or discouragement, but as a plea for help. Obviously, change should occur.

Aluminum cans in the trash, newspapers tossed with photocopies, plastic colliding with glass — we’ve all seen this at least once, if not a dozen times. We watch passively because we know that most likely our efforts will be fruitless as long as the administration withholds its support. How can a few ambitious and commendable students, sorting through a shed full of waste between their 11:30 and 12:30 classes, possibly deal with even a snippet of the thousands of pounds that should be taken care of?

Last week’s petition, signed by 950 of us, reflects student demand for the college to begin funding a program that will satisfy the legal and moral obligations we have to the state and to ourselves. We must think of recycling as a cooperative and everyday responsibility. And obviously, we cannot do it by ourselves. Recycling should be handed over to the Physical Plant, paid for, organized, and implemented by the college.

100% Romance  
Free. Guaranteed not to give the recipient any clue about how you really feel!

So I guess I’ll see you at the party or something. I just wanted to tell you that, well you know... I guess I kind of like hanging out with you.

ANOTHER TOTALLY FREE SERVICE FROM THE DAVIDSONIAN

VALENTINE’S DAY CARD FOR THE DAVIDSON DATER

LETTERS

Efforts toward recycling

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or 2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editor:

In the past several years, there has been growing concern among the Davidson students that our campus has no established recycling program. This concern has resulted in nearly futile efforts by numerous small committees (Recycling Committee, Environmental Action Committee, On-Campus Service Committee) to take on the mission single-handedly. However, these groups find they do not have the time, manpower, or money to sig-Significantly resolve the problem at hand. The true dilemma does not lie in the masses of recyclable waste hauled weekly from this campus but in Davidson’s responsibility as an educational entity and a creator of leaders. Davidson’s Statement of Purpose reads: “Davidson’s primary purpose is to develop persons of humane instincts, of disciplined and creative minds, and of Christian character for full lives of leadership, of service, and of self-fulfillment.” As tomorrow’s leaders, this campus should have a commitment to making its students environmentally aware, allowing them to make immediate and future contributions toward the sustainable management of the world’s resources through an institutionalized recycling program. Along with Davidson’s commitment to its students, it has an obligation to the community. North Carolina has passed laws prohibiting aluminum in landfills. Davidson has a responsibility by law to provide, abundantly, bins for aluminum cans (these bins are, however, not available in Baker or the senior apartments). Davidson has a responsibility as a community leader to help meet Mecklenburg County’s goal set in 1990 to reduce waste by 40% as of June 30, 2001, by providing recycling areas for glass, plastic, paper, aluminum, and cardboard. But the most important intent of a recycling program remains the opportunity it gives students to make changes that will better their lives and their environment. We do present this letter humbly as we are reluctant to criticize Davidson or the administration. Paradoxically, it was here we gained the knowledge of a dire need to conserve, and here, we learned to scrutinize problems and create solutions. So, with the Statement of Purpose, we affirm, “in gratitude for what has been accomplished, but in humble recognition that it has not fully measured up to its own ideals either in learning or in life, its trustees, its faculty, its students, and its friends must constantly rededicate themselves to their task” ... of nurturing the whole person.

Sincerely,
Maria Whitehead
On-Campus Service Committee

Careless captions

To the editor:

I was very disappointed to see the caption “Sicko-psycho half-time” attached to the photograph by Rob Kosicki of Gentle Douglas’s half-time performance at a recent basketball game (The Davidsonian, February 6, 1995, p. 16). Gentle Douglas, who is a member of our campus staff, is a highly skilled, internationally ranked athlete whose discipline and integrity have been deservedly recognized. I would invite everyone to come see him work out at the college gym, where he trains almost every day during his lunch hours. To label his performance (which was one of the most interesting that I have seen in nearly a half-century of watching Davidson sports) in such a negative manner is neither professional nor informed nor kind. Through training, talent, and focus, professional athletes do things which the rest of us simply cannot do. We can gratefully enjoy being awed by such efforts just as we can be enthralled by a great lecturer, musician, poet, or a new idea. Intentionally or unconsciously tainted with the “isms” of the worst kind, the thoughtless words of the caption serve to divide and marginalize persons and sincere interests in our own community on the very eve of Solidarity Week. As Michel Foucault pointed out years ago, the presumptive establishment of norms for “sanity” has justified dangerous extremes of both the political left and the right. Perhaps this commentary, even benighted as it was, should have been reserved for the quippy Lollapalooza sidelines of these editorial pages. I would hope that the anonymous commentator would come forward and fully apologize to Mr. Douglas. He or she is missing out on a great athlete and a great person, not to mention the instantaneous standing ovation which Gentle Douglas’s performance received from the many students who were fortunate enough to have witnessed his well-honed features and feats.

Sincerely,
Shaw Smith
Associate Professor of Art and Humanities