12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1995

Student in Würzburg relates experience so far

Davidson junior sends message back to America about what it takes to speak German

By Emily Simmons
Reporter-in-residence, Germany

When we first got to Germany, everyone in our group was a little jet-lagged, a little confused, and a lot
overwhelmed. Needless to say, none of us really had the slightest clue about the customs, rules, etc., of our new
home. All we knew was that we needed to sleep and that maybe in a few days (or hours) we
would want to sample some of that great beer.

My guest family was very accommodating. I don’t think they knew what jet lag is, but when I told them
I had to sleep, they understood — sort of. I could sleep, as long as my sleep fit in with
the order of the day’s activities. I had to make sure I had my breakfast, did my daily chores, and
ate lunch at the proper times before I could even think about relaxing. Not that I was never allowed to
relax; my relaxation just had to fit into the schedule.

As time passed, I found that everything I did had to follow a plan. If it didn’t, well, at least
as far as my host family was concerned, all was shot to hell. Anyone who knows me will agree; I
am not the most organized person around. Thus, I began to feel as if I could never fully adapt to
this culture — as if I were a big loser who couldn’t even do the right things at the right
time of the day. Even though I could not keep up with all the order, I had begun to think
that I was wrong for not doing so. Talk about stressing out.

Then I met Sebastian. He was a member of one of the German host families and ended up spending a
lot of time with us. Sebastian was basically your average German kid, except that he had spent a year in
Chicago when he was 16. This allowed us to connect with him pretty easily and he gave us an interesting
perspective of what it is to be a German kid. It was also really interesting to observe the “typically American”
traits he had picked up while living in the States in comparison with his oh-so-German ones.

By living in America, Sebastian had come to act quite a bit less “in Ordnung” than his German counterparts while
still maintaining a lot of his German traits. Sebastian would do crazy (and I guess supposedly typically American) things like
spend the night away from home without a phone call and skip school for five days straight. I don’t really
know if those things are typically American, but they are a lot less in order than what’s typically German. But,
he would get really uptight over things like crumbs in the butter and crossing the street on a “Don’t walk”
signal even when there were no cars in sight.

The funny thing about all this was that while we treasured the fact that Sebastian was not uptight about a
lot of things — which made us very comfortable — we would hear comments from some other German host families
that he was chaotic and was not really good to hang out with. Now, if someone who will only cross
the street on green and who must have clean butter is chaotic, God only knows what I am. It makes
me a little disheartened to think that the very same reasons I like Sebastian and feel comfortable around him, his
countrywomen and men find him a threat to society.

I guess that’s my whole point. My biggest obstacle here in Germany has not been the language; it has been
realizing that even though I may be speaking German, what I am saying is not heard the same as it
would be in my language. I have had to learn that it is not only my knowledge of the German
language that allows me to communicate effectively with others — it is also a feeling for the culture, and that
what I do and how I perceive things is as important as what I say.

A from page 10

times of the 17th century, deals with Hester Prynne, a woman forced to wear a scarlet letter “A” on her
chest as punishment for giving birth to a child (long after her husband had presumably perished in a shipwreck). The
man who impregnated her, Reverend Dimmesdale, can only watch in silent agony as the town ostracizes Prynne. Even as he
suffers, the evil Chillingworth (so well-named) plots against the two of them, determined to make them suffer. More than a
century of readers have read this tale,Now considered almost required reading, it’s a story that has plenty going for it—suspense,
the agony of guilt, the question of culpability. It also forces the reader to ask questions. “Who impregnated Hester?” is
the first question. “Who is Chillingworth and why is he so evil?” “What does Chillingworth see on Dimmesdale’s chest in
the middle of the night?” These are all questions the movie (I refuse to call it a film adaptation) The
Scarlet Letter doesn’t even ask. Instead of starting in medias res as the book did, it feels obliged to show
us the pre-story of Hester’s arrival in the village and her affair with Dimmesdale.

Mistake number one: Never bore the audience in the first 20 minutes. Sorry, but the build-up is slow and unnecessary.
Mistake number two: Where did all these Indians come from? They were nowhere in the book, and for good reason.
Talk about an extraneous subplot. Mistake number three: What happened to Pearl? That ambiguous figure that was at the heart
of the Hawthorne story has nothing but an extended cameo in the film. Alfred Hitchcock was in his films longer
than Pearl was in this movie. Mistake number four—well, I only have so much space.

Is there anything to speak in the movie’s favor? Pretty much all of it is lousy, from the obtrusive musical
score to the ending-you-can-see-coming-from-a-mile-away (which is, of course, different from Hawthorne’s. If you’re going to trash something, you might as
well go all out). The only enjoyment one might get from the movie is purely unintentional on the filmmaker’s side.
I got a certain perverse pleasure from thinking throughout the movie, “They’re not going to do that, are they—wait a
minute... yup, they sure did.” The movie is so fundamentally flawed that it was enjoyable at times to see how
bad it would get.

Still, I can’t forget the actions of one of my professors. After watching The Scarlet Letter he waited around until
after the credits rolled to see if there was going to be some sort of apology at the end. Personally,
I couldn’t leave the theater fast enough. (Grade: D)

Twins background music, the kind that flows through you and leaves your arm hair standing on end. For die-hard fans
(all three of us), this CD is a must. For those with only a passing interest, I would recommend beginning
your collection with their breakthrough Heaven or Las Vegas, or my favorite, one of the top three of my favorite
CDs of all time, the previously-mentioned Four Calendar Cafe. You will quickly realize why Guthrie has said about the band,
(I am paraphrasing), “surely this is the voice of God.”

GREAT DUMPHIN SALE
All Sweatshirts 25% off (extra treat with each purchase, NO TRICKS!)
October 30, 31, 1995
ORDER YOUR CLASS RING
Davidson College Bookstore

Montague from page 10
Rough Field and Time in Armagh. Montague visited Davidson as part of an American tour to launch his new book,
which was published by Wake Forest Press. The English Department and the Union Literary Arts Committee, headed by senior Jack
Livings, sponsored the poet’s visit. The poet was born in Brooklyn, NY but raised in County Tyrone in Northern Ireland.
Last year he added the American-Irish Foundation Prize in poetry to his long list of honors. Visiting Professor of English
Ralph Black, who served as Montague’s host during his visit to Davidson, says, “Certainly no other Irish poet can blend
the personal, political, and historical more fluidly.” Tony Abbott, Chair of the English department, agreed: “The whole modern Irish history
and landscape is in his voice and his poetry.” Montague stayed through part of Tuesday to have lunch with members
of the English department and the Creative Writing and Modern American Poetry classes. After lunch he read more poems and
answered questions. Before the end of the discussion he played a recording of a dramatic reading from “The Rough Field.”
The poet also took time during his visit to meet with a few students individually. (I had coffee with Montague
Tuesday morning and discussed the poetry and life of Sylvia Plath, the topic of my thesis. Montague gave freely of
his insights from his acquaintance with Ted Hughes, the English poet laureate and former husband of the late Plath.) Vereen
Bell winner Geordie Schimmel had the opportunity to discuss “a sheaf of poems” with Montague. He spent much of Tuesday
discussing poetic philosophy and “the importance of casting back into the past” with Montague. Schimmel drove Montague and his companion
Elizabeth back to Wake Forest on Tuesday, where Montague completed his tour before returning to Ireland.

Write for The Davidsonian. It’s never too late to join the fun. Call Matt, Jeff, John, or Matt. -2148.
