6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Week in Washington: Debt limits and speed limits
By Davin SANTSCHI
Washington Week Correspondent

Republican leaders and the Clinton Administration began negotiating Friday on a stopgap spending bill to keep the government operating after October 1, when the new fiscal year will begin without a budget. The budget may be headed for a “train wreck” this fall because of differences between Republicans and President Clinton over spending cuts and controversial social issues inserted into spending bills. None of the 13 appropriations bills required to keep the government operating has passed Congress.

A temporary measure, or continuing resolution, must be passed by September 30 to raise the debt ceiling to meet expenses and provide for budget outlays. If this bill is not approved, the government would shut down until a final budget is worked out. Few experts predict a lengthy government shutdown because of the disruption it would cause the nation.

Negotiators are working on a bill that would fund the government six weeks into the 1996 fiscal year, which begins on October 1. There is disagreement over the funding formulas for this stopgap bill, which will affect the 13 major bills when they are negotiated later. Republicans proposed a plan that would prevent layoffs but cut the president's priorities deeply. Chief of Staff Leon Panetta promptly rejected it, saying, “We’re not going to be blackmailed.” The White House seeks an across-the-board cut at one percent below current funding levels for all budget items.

If the government is forced to shut down temporarily, the public by a margin of 48% to 21% would place the blame on Republicans, not President Clinton. 77% of Americans view the budget struggle as partisan politics.

In an alarming development, Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich (R-GA) warned on Thursday that he would cause the government to default on its debt if Clinton did not agree to a Republican plan to eliminate the deficit in seven years. “I don’t care... if we have no bonds for 60 days,” Gingrich said. To do this, he would prevent the House from voting on the continuing resolution, which is critical for the government to make regular payments and borrow money to stay operating. The US government has never defaulted on its debt. This could disrupt financial markets, undermine confidence, and raise interest rates. Just a one-point rise in interest rates would increase the deficit by $4.9 billion. The security of the American financial system rests squarely on the ability of the government to repay its loans.

President Clinton was unsure how seriously to take Gingrich’s threat. But Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin rebuked Gingrich, saying, “Even the appearance of a risk of default can have adverse consequences.” He said that US credit-worthiness should “not be sacrificed under any circumstances.”

Amid the rush of critical budget and Medicare legislation, the House last Wednesday voted to repeal the 55 mile-per-hour speed limit on all vehicles. The House would allow states to determine their own speed limits. The issue was raised as part of a larger bill that would consolidate interstates, state highways, seaways, and public transportation into a national highway system.

The Senate passed the highway bill on June 22, but it abolished the speed limit only for private cars and small commercial vehicles. Buses and trucks would still be limited to 65 mph. The differences between the competing bills will be worked out in a House-Senate conference committee. President Clinton opposes lifting the 55 mph speed limit.

The debate pits state officials, who believe they can better determine the speed limits on their own roads, against critics like Rep. Nick Rahall (D-WV), who believe that “the death toll will rise once the states begin increasing the speed limits.” This debate is at least as old as the original speed limit bill, which was passed in 1974.

Sources include: September 21 and 22 of The New York Times and September 22 of The Wall Street Journal.

Dean Rusk Program
U.N. Women’s Conference makes strides
By Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

This last week marked the end of the Fourth World Conference on Women. Overall, observers seemed to be pleased with its outcome and almost all the participants were pleased with how little hostility there was between disagreeing parties throughout the conference. Issues brought before the conference ranged from women in leadership positions to lesbianism. While not all of the issues were addressed to the satisfaction of everyone assembled, there was major headway made on some important topics.

Sex and power were the key themes in the Conference’s Platform of Action. A large emphasis was placed on a woman’s ability to make herown decisions in issues surrounding her own sexuality and childbearing. Violence against women was also given a great deal of consideration by the assembly. In particular, rape as a result of war (which has been common in the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda) and genital mutilation (which is still an issue in many African countries) were strongly condemned and punishments for these actions were proposed. The final emphasis was put on women’s position in society. Bosnian refugee women, Letitia Campbell, and emphasized the importance of female leaders as well as reiterating the importance of a strong family. It would be a mistake to assume that the conference went over totally without a hitch. It started off on the wrong foot with all the problems surrounding China’s harassment of the delegates during the first week of the conference. There was also major disagreement over how much equality women should receive. There was a large concern among some countries (especially Muslim ones) that following the conference’s platform would lead to major unrest and turmoil within their countries which traditionally oppose equality of the sexes. There was also disagreement over the use of contraception and abortion by women to help further their control of their own bodies. And finally, probably the largest unrest resulted from the issue of recognizing and commenting on the rights of lesbians. In the end, no statement was made regarding homosexuality. The final consensus seemed to be that women needed to be protected by their countries from abuse and given a more equal position in society. However, the extent of that equality was to vary between different societies based upon their historical, religious, and social customs.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1995

The Davidsonian

ELSEWHERE NOTES

Milky Situation

They came by the hundreds Friday to a Hindu temple in rural Montgomery County, Md., to feed milk to a 2-foot statue of an elephant-headed god named Ganesh. And no matter how many skeptics tipped teaspoons of milk into his tiny trunk, Ganesh never seemed to have his fill. “It’s very difficult to explain, except to say it’s a miracle,” said Arvind Patel, the director of the 2,000-member temple Shri Mangal Mandir. Miracle or not, Patel said temple members first offered the idol a drink Thursday after they received calls from relatives in India reporting that similar statues there had developed a taste for milk, a traditional offering. In the Asian subcontinent, tens of thousands of people lined up at temples Thursday to offer the statue’s milk and take a look at the apparent wonder. The frenzy caused milk shortages and work stoppages, and police sent out reinforcements to control mob scenes at temples. Indians called and e-mailed relatives and friends in England, the United States, Canada, Australia, and Hong Kong, asking them to present spoonfuls of milk to Lord Ganesh idols - and crowds of the faithful and curious soon descended on their temples. At Mangal Mandir, Hindus streamed into the modest building throughout the day. Some brought milk. Others dipped into a bowl provided by the temple. A half-dozen plastic gallon containers of milk sat on the floor next to the statue. “I didn’t believe it until I came here. Now I believe it,” said Aruna Sharma, 38, of Silver Springs, Md., who left to get her two children so they could see for themselves. “I have a Ph.D. in mechanical engineering, and I can’t explain it,” said Haashad Parikh, a temple trustee who works for a company that designs power plant simulators. “I went back to my office and said, ‘I’m not insane, but this is really happening.’” A Washington Post reporter held a teaspoon of milk up to the statue’s trunk and observed the fluid being absorbed into the statue, which temple officials said is made of marble. There were no visible holes in the statue. But the stone could have been porous, because when the reporter carelessly spilled milk on Ganesh’s potbelly, it disappeared too. The statue could be made of stone that contains tiny capillaries capable of drawing liquid from the surface, said Shawn Carlson, a physics professor at the University of San Diego who investigates supposed miracles. Richard Muller, a physics professor at the University of Berkeley, added: “This may be a natural phenomenon that no one paid much attention to before because no one had tried to feed the statue milk. But I suspect they’ll know soon enough, when the milk begins to sour.”

-from the September 23, 1995 issue of The Charlotte Observer

The Davidsonian would like to apologize to Letitia Campbell for the caption appearing on page 4 of the September 18, 1995 issue. The oversight was unintentional and in no way reflects prejudices against Ms. Campbell or in general. The editors regret any embarrassment caused by this error.