THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1995

SGA and tea and crumpets

The SGA will be sponsoring a continental breakfast for parents and students on Saturday morning of Parents’ Weekend. The breakfast
is meant to give parents an opportunity to meet members of the SGA and other students. The breakfast will take
place before a faculty/administration panel discussion at 10 a.m. While some senators are doubtful that many parents will attend, SGA
leadership is confident that parents of freshmen are especially eager to meet the SGA. Two hundred dollars was appropriated to
fund the event.

Cleanliness is... the newest priority for RLO

The age-old question which vexed Davidson students, “Why is there no soap in the bathrooms?” has been wiped clean away.
This week, the RLO began installing soap dispensers in the bathrooms on residence halls. Davidson students will be more squeaky
clean than ever. (See related RLO note below.)

Committee chairs approved

Freshman Class President Lucy Sherman was unanimously approved to help organize the Phone-A-Thon in February. Traditionally, this is the job
of the Freshman Class President. Sophomore Senators Wesley Hart and Matthew Hobie were unanimously approved as co-chairs of the Public
Relations Committee. The committee is responsible for hanging SGA flyers, maintaining the SGA bulletin board, posting the SGA seconds on
residence halls, and working with The Davidsonian. The committee has “the ability to be one of the most important committees,”
says Vice President Warren Buford.

Don’t leave home without it

Sophomore Class President Buster Burk, also a member of the Student Advisory Committee to Director of Auxiliary Services Richard Terry,
informed the SGA that Terry is working with students and local businesses to allow the CatCard to be used off-campus.
Burk cautioned that the process will move slowly because several legal issues are unclear and must be resolved before any
plan becomes a reality.

It’s just like living in the Great Outdoors — and other problems with dorm life

The SGA last Tuesday had what President Bill Gullan called “a brainstorming” discussion about RLO issues in preparation for this
Thursday’s town meeting on the same subject. Some of the problems senators mentioned are ants, same material for both paper
towels and toilet paper, no trash bags in Senior Apartments, DCTV not wired to every lounge, RAs get largest double
rooms but live by themselves, alcohol violations are often issued without the student knowing until the citation arrives in the
mail, no elevators in the dorms, no storage room for lofts, seniors have to vacate their apartments by 5 p.m.
on the day of graduation, and not enough working washers and dryers in sophomore dorms.

NEWS BRIEFS

Beth Bell chosen as new Patterson Court Advisor

By Jason McMullan
Staff Writer

With Kurt Holmes’ recent promotion, Beth Bell takes his place as Patterson Court Advisor and Assistant Director of Residence Life.
Bell, a recent graduate of Master’s Studies at USC, officially assumes the role October 2, but got her first taste
of Davidson nightlife at First Night Down. “I was impressed with how well the night went and how the Risk
Managers and ID checkers helped keep the parties under control,” she says. The transition of power will be smoother than
most since Holmes will still be in the department; in fact, Bell reports to him in all matters. Bell is
“excited to have him as a resource while building [her own] individual student relations.” Bell plans to continue the recent
trend towards a risk management environment. “Great things” are already in the works, and she is excited to support them
now. Her initial interest is to see how the system works, to get a firm grasp of campus culture and
students’ views, and then to help in future development of the Court. Steve Shames, President of PCC, thinks “she’s fantastic.
I was part of two interviews, and I think she’s great! It will be nice...To get a "new perspective on
how our system works." Bell brings a lot of experience, despite her youth, to Davidson. She was a Greek leader
at UVA as an undergraduate and worked as a traveling consultant with her national sorority. She then earned a master’s
in student personnel from USC before moving to Virginia Commonwealth University to work with their Greek system. In addition to
her Patterson Court responsibilities, Bell is involved in Hall Counselor and Resident Advisor training and selection as well as leadership
issues and training.

PCC continues trying to keep kegs flowing until 2 a.m.
Student leaders claim early cut-off leads students to drive drunk
By CHAD WELLMON

HAIR DESIGNERS
A full-service salon for men and women
Welcome back students! Come in for any of our many services:
cuts * perms * hair-coloring * manicures * pedicures
Right now, Davidson students and faculty receive 10% off all retail items with a school I.D. We now carry a
new line of retail products by Abba. Also select from a line of Paul Mitchell, Matrix, Logic, Nexxus, Sebastian, and
Goldwell hairstyling products.
Southlake Shopping Center
Next to Harris Teeter
Cornelius, NC
892-3067

Staff Writer

Meeting Sunday evenings in the Union Conference Room, the Patterson Court Council has been working to provide safe, organized fun
on the Court for all students. The council, headed by Steve Shames and composed of fraternity and eating house leaders,
has taken on issues concerning independents and the campus alcohol policy and is now considering petitioning the Board of Trustees
to reconsider their decision to cut off beer service during weekday parties at midnight.

The Council’s first project of this semester was to sell PCC stickers to independents. The sale of PCC stickers helps
to offset the cost of parties, attended by independents, for fraternities and eating houses. In a unanimous vote on September
10, the Council approved a by-law change which will ensure two independent positions on the Council. The independent representatives will
be elected to the council by their fellow independents in the next few weeks.

After the rigors of voting and debate, the Council, led by the efforts of senior David Thompson, organized the senior
class party at Signatures. But in perhaps their most challenging endeavor, the Council has been trying to revise the campus
alcohol policy. After the first weekend of parties on the court, Shames spent the first PCC meeting trying to elucidate
the newly installed wristband alcohol policy. Over the past three weeks, the PCC discussions have centered on the times that
kegs are shut off.

"The fun doesn’t stop when the beer stops flowing," said Rob Kosicki. Students carry their parties to local bars after
midnight during weekday parties. Last semester the PCC petitioned the Board of Trustees with a proposal to extend the hours
of alcohol service during the weekdays. The trustees’ response was to push the time of beer service not back to
2 a.m. as students had requested but forward to 12 a.m.

This year the Council hoped to present a resolution to the trustees with the aim of extending the time when
beer service is stopped. In discussion over the proposed resolution, Shames said, “I am worried that people will drive to
bars if the kegs are shut off at 12 a.m.” Shames and the entire council noted that under North Carolina
law, bars may serve until 2 a.m. If the kegs are turned off at midnight, impaired students may drive to
local bars to continue drinking. After speaking with Dean of Students Tom Shandley, Shames said that the writing of the
official resolution will be postponed until further research into the alcohol policy is completed. By presenting a sound argument, the
Council hopes to convince the trustees to reverse their decision of last semester.
