WE THE DAVIDSONIAN

FROLIC NEWS | A bungee-jumper soars through the air. Spring Frolics weekend brought out the crazy, daring, thrill-seeker in all
who chose to participate. Other activities included frisbee-throwing, water-sliding, barn dancing, band-listening, pool-swimming, and lots of beer-drinking.

MONDAY, APRIL 24, 1995

Rob Kosicki

Alumni will reunite for weekend
’75 Flickerball champs to face off with ’95 champs

By Mary Clarke Jalonick
News Editor

Six classes will come together next weekend for numerous festivities in the second of two annual alumni weekends. According to
John Cook, Assistant to the Director of Alumni Relations, this weekend will be “a little bigger than Homecoming.” Over 400
alums will be on campus. The weekend will consist of events ranging from a panel on tort reform to a
FLAG reception. The panel, in which alumni will speak, will begin the weekend. Also on Friday, alumni will dine with
their respective classes and attend “Coffee and Cordials” on the terrace of Vail Commons.

Saturday, alumni will relive their freshman year with a cake race and a flickerball game, in which the 1975 champions
will battle it out with the 1995 champions. Usually, the only interaction between the two is through the volunteers we
use,” says Cook. “This will be a neat interaction between the two.” Each class will also take a walking tour
of “New Davidson.” Cook says that the tour will be good for alumni because “Davidson has really changed in the
last 30 years. For most of the classes, there weren’t even women here.”

“They love coming back to see their old friends and the campus,” says Cook. “Our job is easy as long
as we provide good food and a good time.”

SGA DAY
Gullan to give “State of School address”

By Ann Hatfield
Staff Writer

The SGA will hold the first-ever “SGA Day” this Thursday. This event seeks to create a better working relationship between
students, the SGA, and faculty. BSC senator sophomore Mike Farley explains that the event “makes strides to give students better
access to the SGA.” The scheduled events are as follows: From 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., an informational video about
the SGA and its senators will be shown at the Union Pit. In addition, the SGA will set up a
bulletin board in Chambers to acquaint students with the duties of the SGA and the tasks of each of its
committees. From 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., all students are invited to attend a free cookout on the Union Patio.
At 6 p.m., a roundtable discussion headed by Farley, who is also chair of the student/faculty/staff roundtable committee, will explore
issues relevant to the SGA, such as the Honor Code, the alcohol policy, race relations, and the possibility of academic
minors. To conclude the day, at 9:30 p.m., all students are invited to attend a study break in which SGA
President Bill Gullan will deliver a “State of the School” address.

Sophomore SGA Vice President Warren Buford states his hopes for the day: “Taking just one day is not enough, but
it is a beginning, and hopefully will prove helpful in teaching students and faculty about the SGA and introducing everyone
to what we do, and can do.” “I look forward to fulfilling these objectives and having a little fun on
a day that falls so close to exams,” he says.

Amici Pizzaria
Amici has more than just great pizza. Come in and try our other delicious food, including our tasty Philly Cheese
Steaks.

Confused from page 1
which identifies them as being over or under 21 years old. The wristband plan hinges on creating...a set guest list
and closed parties. While just how the PCC will accomplish this is far from determined, the wristbands will identify Court
members. Said SGA President Bill Gullan, a voting member of the CCRL, “There will be a term called ‘Patterson Court
member’ in this policy.” Who will be “Court members” is yet to be determined. PCC President Steven Shames, a voting
member of the CCRL, said, “It’s a very proactive measure. It protects us in risk management and in liability.” Burt
Arrington, a member of the PCC and a non-voting member of the CCRL, praised the wristband strategy: “I don’t think
there is one good objection you can make against wristbands — except that it’s a pain in the butt.”

All parties will be required to have a trained bartender and/or a risk manager who will tend the bar and
must be trained in intervention procedures. There will also be a sober monitor and a police officer. The guidelines for
these four positions will not be included in the policy, but a mission statement and procedures will be included in
the alcohol policy. At the meeting, it was suggested that the mission statement and procedures be placed in the Redbook.

One contentious issue was the cut-off time for serving alcohol. Many of the students on the APRTF and the CCRL
were in favor of following state guidelines, which allow alcohol to be served until 2 a.m. on weekdays and 3
a.m. on weekends. The current policy at Davidson is 12 a.m. on weekdays and 1 a.m. on weekends. Those in
favor of the change argue that when the kegs stop flowing, students drive drunk to bars. Arrington says, “It happens
all the time.” Proponents say extending the serving hours would help keep students safe. Shandley, who heads the CCRL, indicated
that change would be very hard to sell to the president and the board. He says, “This will be a
real, real point of contention, I suspect.”

Shandley was correct. When the CCRL’s proposal was sent to the president, he disagreed that alcohol ought to be served
until two, but he allowed the change to be presented to the board with an addendum noting his objection. At
the trustees’ meeting, Gullan spoke in favor of the change, while Shandley and Professor Bob Manning spoke against it. The
trustees favored Shandley’s and Manning’s arguments and rejected extending service hours on weekdays but will allow alcohol to be served
until 2 a.m. on weekends.

Speaking for the SGA, Gullan says, “The window between state law and the Davidson rule still is too large. The
SGA will be looking for other ways to address the considerable drinking and driving that occurs in such situations.” The
trustees approved the CCRL’s proposal otherwise.

GET READY FOR YOUR FORMALS AT... THE DUCHESS!
Sculptured Nails • French Manicures
Pedicures • Tanning Booth
Located at The Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St., Cornelius, NC 28031
(704) 892-7030
Tuesday - Saturday

And for everyone, a wide selection of beer and wine.
College Special: Monday, Tuesday, & Wednesday nights get $1.00 cans of beer w/ Davidson I.D.

Davidson faculty and students get 10% off all food and beverages with this ad & a school I.D.
211 N. Griffin St. Sadler Square. Phone: 892-457

with any ice cream or frozen yogurt purchase and this coupon.
BEN & JERRY’S
VERMONT'S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT
507 Providence Rd. • 333-1003
The Arboretum • 543-8333
202 S. Main St • Davidson
