THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 1995 - The Republicans have swept into Congress with a fury, ending 40 years
of Democratic control. In a marathon “opening day” that lasted until 2:33 a.m., Republicans passed a series of internal rules
changes, including limits on committee staffs and certain perks, the elimination of three committees and 25 subcommittees, and a rule
that requires a 60 percent supermajority to raise income taxes. Many Americans were exhilarated at the business-like atmosphere of the
new majority, although it limited debate on each measure to 20 minutes. Newt Gingrich, now Speaker, has consolidated a great
degree of power in his office — hardly an unprecedented act. He has restricted Republican members from contacting the White
House, selected younger members as committee chairpersons to assure their loyalty, and assumed tight control over floor business. The Contract
with America, written on every Republican’s heart, and Gingrich’s list of suggested readings for members give the impression of a
professor lecturing to unquestioning college students. Because of this consolidation of power and the division of party power between the
executive and legislative branches, there will come constant partisanship. Certainly, the new Republican majority will not eliminate gridlock; with Clinton
in the White House, it ensures it.

There are two areas where conflict is pronounced: the examination of safety-net Great Society programs and the drive to balance
the federal budget. Entitlements and interest on the debt are now the largest items in the federal budget. A desire
to preserve Social Security, Medicare, and welfare at present levels presents a conflict with budget restrictions. And budget problems will
eventually necessitate the reduction in some benefits, barring sharp tax increases. Certainly, these issues must be addressed together. Unfortunately, with
such a charged climate in Washington, politicians are unwilling to propose the spending cuts needed to reduce entitlement growth and
curb the debt. The elimination or reduction of some individual programs is useful in moving toward a budget surplus, but
it is insufficient. What is needed is an annual 2-4% reduction, taken before inflation is accounted, in every federal program
until the federal budget is back at a surplus. Also, each additional dollar spent must be matched by a dollar
reduction in another area.

This plan has several advantages: every program is affected equally; officeholders are given political cover; the cuts could be phased
in over many years instead of dramatic cuts in a few programs in the short run; federal departments, by having
their budgets reduced, would be forced to find ways to deliver services more efficiently; once government feels the painful effects
of downsizing, reductions in individual programs would be forthcoming to retain funds for important areas. The cuts would take effect
automatically and continue at a predictable, prudent rate until the budget returns to a surplus. Some would argue that worthy
programs would be crippled along with unnecessary ones. This is true; some useful projects would suffer. However, Congress has proven
that it cannot deal responsibly with fiscal issues and lacks the courage to make specific cuts. The balanced budget amendment,
an unconstitutional political gimmick, and the proposed “middle class” tax cut are examples of how Congress puts forward sweeping goals
to disguise its lack of real action. It is clear that President Clinton, speaking in the State of the Union
about the national service program, border patrols, and job-retraining, regards certain programs as untouchable. Multiply any one legislator’s pet projects
by 535 and add the President’s own tax cuts and demands, and it is no wonder that so much unnecessary
spending clogs the federal budget. In addition to officeholders, each program has its own entrenched interest groups who work tirelessly
for its continuance. Perhaps cutting 2-4% from all federal programs each year, without any tax cuts, is a radical idea
whose time has come; it builds on the short-term deficit reductions the President has already achieved. With a new Speaker
and such a partisan shift in Congress, a bill that distributes pain equally may be the only substantive measure that
Congress can pass and Clinton is willing to sign. If Congress feels that all current programs are so necessary, why
not acknowledge political reality, cut these “necessities” equally, and spare any further posturing?

Holt Vaughan

More O.J. Please...

Has the O.J. Simpson trial eclipsed the skyrocketing Ricki Lake in the battle for America's daytime T.V.? I love the
O.J. case. People keep calling in to radio shows saying how tired they are of the whole thing. People keep
writing magazine articles, saying how they don’t want to read about it anymore. All right, fine. It is getting a
little old from the standpoint that the case gets front page coverage over a presidential address. I can’t tell you
how much I look forward to reading about what I already heard old Bill say on television the night before.
But the fact is, the O.J. case is fascinating. Pull away the details of O.J. being a former car rental
representative. Strip the fact that his Bronco was seen on television driving down an L.A. freeway for hours during game
seven of the NBA championship. Forget the fact that this is...the most publicized case since who knows what. Take all
that away and you still have yourself one of the most interesting and educational television programs on television. O.J.’s “Dream
Team” defense comprises some of the most respected defense specialists in their respective fields. The prosecution’s Marcia Clark is as
good as they come (though I think she could use a new haircut). What better way to educate the public
on how our legal system works? It is unfortunate that we have to have one of our heroes fall from
grace to get the public’s attention — but let’s take advantage of the opportunity while we have it. I’m amazed
at how much interest people have invested in this case. People are canceling lunch plans, calling in sick, and even
skipping episodes of “Ricki Lake” just to get a glimpse of the O.J. trial. I applaud the television stations for
having such extensive coverage. I can only hope that Judge Ito lets the cameras stay on.

In the age of massive lawsuits when people are suing doctors for breathing on their patients wrong, it’s become too
easy and all too common to sue. The aftereffects are killing our economy and security. The lawsuits are causing doctors
to charge more, insurance premiums to skyrocket, and worst of all, more and more people cannot afford insurance. Yes, I’m
making generalizations and jumps with one specific example, but the point is still the same with all sorts of lawsuits.
Plus, I realize that O.J. is charged with double murder; however, the point of lawsuits is the same no matter
what the severity of the charge. The threat and ease of lawsuits are taking advantage of our legal system and
are affecting all of us directly and indirectly. People simply do not understand the complications and ramifications of lawsuits. Who
can blame the people when lawyers in purple polyester suits are on TV every other commercial pounding the message “sue,
sue, sue?” People are vulnerable and they must be educated. Perhaps the O.J. case can make more people aware that
winning a lawsuit isn’t as easy as it sounds. You risk your private life, you lose months or even years
of your time dealing with the case, and finally the great possibility that you might even lose — no matter
how much evidence you have. If O.J. can get off — anybody can (Yes, I believe O.J. did it).

VARNA LETTERS

Some were offended by the light display, but it did not harm male/female relations at Davidson.

Cole from page 7

I sat in the Phi Delt house studying for exams, a cohort of hers kept me distracted as Rebekah and
several others climbed onto the Phi Delt roof to change the lights. I find it strange that she failed to
mention her part in the incident. Perhaps the overall point of her article was just too important. Second, Rebekah’s article
conveniently omitted the steps actually taken to deal with the problem. Rebekah confronted me in the library concerning the incident.
Yes, I pleaded innocence, but I followed it up with an apology and the promise that I would voice my
displeasure to the light bandit of Phi Delta Theta, which I did. I even went so far as to make
sure the lights were unplugged every night thereafter. Why were I and others like me overlooked? I don't know. Maybe
my word wasn’t good enough. If you question my word, you question my worth as a person. Perhaps reality just
would have distorted the basic truth of last week’s article. Yeah, that makes sense. Well, perhaps I’m beating the dead
horse too much; I’m afraid he might come back to life. I have a few more points to make, however.

Okay, some people were offended by the light display, but does that really call male/female relations or the abolition of
fraternities into question? I don’t think so. If you have a problem with a light display, voice your concern about
it. If you’re unhappy about the social life at Davidson or in general, say that. But do it separately, or
at least make solid connections (Christmas break should allow enough time for this to happen), and let everyone know that
you are speaking for yourself. I’ve spoken with several Connor members who do not feel as strongly as Ms. Peeples.
Many are no longer concerned, if they ever were. I regret the fact that Rebekah’s letter sounded, at times, like
it was representing Connor House and even women as a whole. Like I am doing now, she was voicing her
own opinion, undoubtedly shared by several others. However, I have faith that the light display did not harm male/female relations
at Davidson. I have said my piece. I’m sure someone, somewhere, was offended by something I’ve said. And they have
that right. But I have cleared my name. I can now look my fellow students in the eyes again. I
want to let Rebekah know that she should be disturbed, both by the light display and by her feelings towards
the Court scene here. But most of all, she should be disturbed by the fact that she blatantly disregarded several
facts regarding the incident to make her points. That disturbs me.

Sincerely,
Brian Cole, '96
