THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, MARCH 20, 1995

16

Tournament slaps Cats around

Men's B-ball season cut short by Catamounts

By Matt Pitzer
Sports Editor

ASHEVILLE - In the end, all that remained were the stares.

The stares of disbelief at a scoreboard that showed the final score.

The stares at the cold, hard floor of a depressed locker room.

BASKETBALL

And the stares back over a season in which the men’s basketball team could never get all the parts to
click.

That season came screeching to a halt March 3 with a 78-74 loss to Western Carolina in the quarterfinal round
of the Southern Conference tournament at the Asheville Civic Center.

And so a season that started with the return of four starters and hopes of a conference title and an
NCAA tournament bid was left crumbled by inconsistency and lack of clutch performances.

“With all the talent we had and all the new talent we injected, this season’s been a big disappointment,” senior
George Spain said. “It’s been a very frustrating senior season for me. The chemistry just wasn’t right. We did not
have persons stepping up at key moments — myself included — to fill the void of a very good player
named Janko Narat. Our biggest problems all year were not filling that void as well as we could.”

Narat left the Wildcats with a 17.7-point hole to fill, but with Spain, Brandon Williams, Quinn Harwood, Chris Alpert and
Jeff Anderson returning, plus the addition of Narcisse Ewodo and Ray Minlend, many thought Davidson would adjust well. They were
the preseason pick to win the conference.

But the hole proved to be too big at times, especially with Mark Donnelly’s preseason decision to sit the year
out. There were certainly bright spots this season, but for every one of them, there was an equally dark moment.

“It was real frustrating,” Harwood said. “It got to us. Sometimes you wonder what’s going to happen when you’re not
confident and inconsistent. But that’s the way it’s been all year for us... . When you’re inconsistent, the confidence isn’t
as high as it should be.”

The tournament loss to Western Carolina epitomized the entire season. After Alpert’s first-half, buzzer-beating three-pointer to give Davidson its first
lead since early in the game, the Wildcats were unable to cut the Catamounts' lead during a six-minute stretch in
the second half when star Frankie King sat with four fouls.

For the emotional charge at the end of the game, there was the failure to — of all things —
correctly miss a free throw.

With his 15 points on 6-of-7 shooting, though, Spain did set a school record for field goal percentage at 67.1%
for the season, the second highest mark in Southern Conference history. Ewodo finished with a team-high 18 points, 16 of
which came in the second half, Harwood had 16 and Williams added 15.

The Wildcats were unable to take advantage of King's absence. When he picked up his fourth foul with 11:20 left
in the game, Western was ahead 50-44, and when he came back at 5:39, the Catamounts led 61-57. A two-point
swing with the conference player-of-the-year and tournament MVP was on the bench wasn’t enough.

Compounding the problem was Anderson’s hurt back that limited him to 10 minutes and Minlend’s foul trouble. With two of
the three guards in the normal rotation out, Ewodo was forced to slide to the shooting guard spot, a position
he isn’t used to.

When King went out, “we should have put them away,” Harwood said. “I don’t know why we couldn’t. We should
have put them away.”

With four seconds left in the game and Davidson down 76-73, Ewodo was fouled coming down with the rebound of
Minlend’s missed three-pointer. He nailed the first free throw, then Davidson called time out to set up the final play,
a missed foul shot.

Ewodo’s attempt just barely missed, grazing the left side of the rim. Harwood came down with the ball about five
feet from the basket, but it didn’t matter since the shot was a violation.

Afterwards, as players and coaches stared at the floors and tables trying to wish it all away, Spain, who said
he was talking about the game, practically summed up the entire season.

“We couldn’t put it together when we had to,” he said. “They outplayed us at the key times, and we
just couldn’t get it done.”

In the first round of the women's tournament, Davidson lost by 16 points to East Tennessee State just before spring
break. In typical fashion, the Wildcats played well early, but fell at the end.

GUYS & GALS:
1995-96 CO-ED
Cheerleading Try-outs
Sunday, March 26
4:00-7:00 in Baker
If you have any questions, call Jeanette at x2378
