ALENDA

LUX UBI

ORTA

LIBERTAS

VOLUME LXXXVII

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1995

NUMBER 10

Men’s and Women’s Soccer win SoCo

By Matt Pitzer

Sports Editor

A simple cry from the crowd said it all: “It’s a great day to be a Wildcat.”

Both the men’s and women’s soccer teams beat Furman to win their respective Southern Conference tournament championships Sunday afternoon at Richardson Field.

Alex Deegan made a diving save on a penalty kick with four seconds left in the game to preserve the victory for the Wildcats, who had gone ahead with just three minutes 22 seconds left when Robert Clarke converted a penalty kick.

The win means the Wildcats advance to a play-in game to reach the NCAA tournament this weekend at Bowling Green, the winner of the Mid-American conference.

For the women’s team, it was sweet revenge for a loss and a tie against Furman this season. The Wildcats' 3-0 win Sunday capped an excellent weekend, preceded by Saturday’s 4-0 win over Georgia Southern, and ended brilliant college careers for seniors Claudia Lombard, Shannon Lowrance, and Heather Wineberg.

“We knew all along we could do it,” said sophomore goalie Allison Noznesky following Sunday’s victory.

Rusted Root rocks.

RUSTED ROOT

Rob Kosicki

By Chad Fogleman
Staff Writer

With the help of a washboard and spoons, maracas and bongos and primal whoops and wails, Rusted Root brought its “Rhythmic Truth” to Davidson and all surrounding planets. It seemed cosmically appropriate that the beautiful crowd of 1100 found themselves in Love (of all places) on a chilly November Saturday night. As the guy from UNCC astutely pointed out to me in the bathroom, “Rusted Root doesn’t come around that often,” and many non-Davidson people brought their tie-dyed hairnets and devil sticks to join Davidson students in celebrating the opportunity.

Greene had contacted the band back in August but Root was booked solid. When the band called Davidson after a cancellation, the Concert Committee “decided it was worth the risk to try and get them.” The risk paid off: the Committee succeeded in selling out the 1100 tickets and thus covering its costs.

THIS WEEK

Seniors Claudia Lombard, Heather Wineberg, and Shannon Lowrance bask in the glow of their victoire finale.

Students still driving drunk

By Matthew Eirich
News Editor

Concerned that drunk driving among students was becoming increasingly dangerous, the committee was chaired by SGA President Bill Gullan and consulted house presidents, local alcohol distributors, the Campus Police, off-campus students, and other members of the community in compiling its data.

The committee has concluded that drunk driving is “a big problem and increasing.” The committee admits that definitions of a “big problem” vary, but points to the change in party hours back to midnight for weekday parties as a major reason for the increase in drunk driving.

According to the committee, some houses have decided to stop hosting weekday parties because people do not start coming until eleven o’clock and the taps stop flowing one hour later. One house is moving its parties off-campus to avoid the early cut-off time. The committee will present its findings to the SGA for general approval.

The committee will also suggest a number of ways to alleviate the situation. Ideally, the committee would like to see a sober rides program initiated.

See Drinking on page 3

New alcohol policy proving unwieldy

By Chad Wellmon
Staff Writer

In the last meeting of the Patterson Court Council, PCC members complained about the source of the ever-present problems of Court party life, the new alcohol policy. Burt Arrington, president of Kappa Sigma, opened the bashing of the alcohol policy saying, “[The alcohol policy] is not being followed and is practically impossible.” Over the past weeks, only students twenty-one and over have received wristbands, a direct violation of the alcohol policy. The policy states that all parties must have wristbands for students over and under twenty-one.

President Steve Shames says that the Council cannot afford to buy wristbands at $0.25 a piece for students over and under twenty-one and is currently looking into the cost of paper wristbands, a cheaper alternative. Kappa Alpha President Dave Thompson said, “The whole policy needs to be scrapped.” Looking to sadism with an old west flair to solve the wristband dilemma, Thompson suggested that “people drop their drawers at the door and we brand them.”

Council members also questioned the necessity of having house members stationed at the door and the bathroom.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

The killing of Hope Rabin
Reactions and ramifications.

Stress relief
Some students finally got some.

Habitat
Saralyn Damanititells of a strong woman here in town.

AD search down to three

NEWS 6 | OPINIONS 9 | ARTS & LIVING 12 | SPORTS 17