THE DAVIDSONIAN

The The “sees the light” on their new album

By Julia Barnes & John Ford
Guest writers

If there were a Grammy for most confusing album concept, Matt Johnson would win hands down for The The’s new tribute album to Hank Williams, Sr. *Hanky Panky* features a number of covers of the great songwriter’s work. Needless to say, such a combination of British alternative and classic American country might seem strange at first, but Matt Johnson’s musical interpretations are both faithful and creative. This review combines the insights of a The The fan with those of a Hank Williams fan. Surprisingly, we both like the album.

The The’s history now spans over two decades, but they had their peak with *Mind Bomb* in the late '80s. Johnson, the frontman, had finally assembled a permanent band that included Johnny Marr of the Smiths. Until then, each album had been very isolated musically, but all of them consistently boasted Johnson’s lyrical ability. Subjects ranging from the torments of human passion, struggles with established religion, and our “divine right to happiness” are put forth poetically and disturbingly.

Unfortunately, the '90s have not been so kind to fans. The next album, *Dusk*, represents a process of homogenizing what had formerly been distinctive. Musically, however, the band has remained talented, and it is no surprise that with the songs of a master, The The could rediscover their own desires.

While all the songs on *Hanky Panky* were written by Hank Williams, they are distinctly The The’s. As Johnson writes in the liner notes, he attempted to preserve the spirit of the songs while adding his own interpretations. Fans of The The will find these tracks somewhat reminiscent of “The Mercy Beat,” “The Violence of Truth,” and even parts of “Good Morning, Beautiful.” Johnson’s vocals are subdued and distorted to convey a rustic and dusty hue that makes one want to reach for a glass of water (if not a bottle of beer).

That The The chose to reinterpret some of Hank Williams, Sr.’s songs shouldn’t surprise anyone. Williams’ work boasts an enormous amount of wrist-slitting, bitter, heart-wrenching lyrics. He captures the darker side of human relations with sincerity and humor. Therefore “I’m a Long Gone Daddy,” and “Weary Blues from Waitin’” fit in smoothly with The The’s somber image. However, Johnson also includes “Honky Tonkin’” and “I Saw the Light” — two upbeat songs which starkly contrast The The’s traditional sound. The band is surprisingly faithful to the good-natured bawdiness of “Honky Tonkin’,” and Williams’ country roots shine clearly in this remake. The lyrics demand that Johnson not stray too far from the original sound; words like “Let’s go honky tonkin’” are difficult to remove from a country music context.

On the other hand, Williams’ fans will hardly recognize “I Saw the Light” and “I’m a Long-Gone Daddy.” The original “I Saw the Light” is a jubilant affirmation of faith, but Johnson drains the life from the song by reducing it to The The’s characteristic darkness. Although he again removes all traces of twang from “I’m a Long-Gone Daddy,” the theme of love gone bad is not out of place with the sordid love themes at which Johnson is a master. Hank Williams fans will most likely find a favorite in “Weary Blues from Waiting” — perhaps because it is the most like Hank Williams, Sr. and the least like The The. A lone guitar in the background hearkens back to the simpler days of early country music. Matt Johnson’s voice captures the energy and despair that the song demands, making this song a definite plus on the album.

At a time when true country music is being shoved under the carpet for the likes of Garth Brooks and company, it is a noble effort for Johnson to bring these gems to people who might otherwise never hear them.Not otherwise hear them. Johnson’s interpretations are both faithful (to an extent) and original. Fans will find a new side of both Hank Williams, Sr. and The The on this album.

Are you bored? Unsatisfied with college life? Center your life around Melrose Place? Then write for The Davidsonian! Call -2148.

Looking For A Summer Job??? SO ARE WE!!! Carolina Pool Management needs Lifeguards, Swim Coaches, and Swim Instructors. Summer Positions available in the Charlotte area. For More Information: 704-362-0748.

COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE FOR THE SUMMER! Outstanding brother/sister sports camps on largest New England lake seeks skilled counselors for land/water sports, and arts. TRANSPORTATION PAID. INTERVIEWS AVAILABLE. Call to schedule: WINAUKEE (Boys) 800-487-9157; ROBINDEL (Girls) 800-325-3396.

The Davidsonian purchases for free, and provide shipping service. Valentine's Day is Tuesday, February 14. 110 S. Main Street, Davidson.

Give Someone A Warm & Fuzzy Feeling This Valentine's. Cupid Bear is right on target when it comes to winning hearts. We offer a large selection of Valentine's gifts which aim to please including stuffed toys, frames, gold and pewter jewelry, Crabtree & Evelyn soaps, and novelties. Choose from hundreds of Valentine cards for that perfect sentiment. We will be happy to wrap your gifts.

ARTS & LIVING
FEBRUARY 6, 1995

Calendar

ON THE SCENE

Tonight
Dr. James MacKenzie. 8-9:30 p.m. in Chambers Gallery. Dr. MacKenzie, the Woodrow Wilson visiting fellow and an expert on energy and pollution, will be speaking on “Charting the Path to Sustainable Transportation.”
Jimmy Thackery and The Drivers. 9:45-12 p.m. Straight-ahead, guitar-heavy blues rock from the former Nighthawks guitarist and his acclaimed new trio. In the 900 Room.

Tuesday
Coffee House. 8:30-11 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Twenty-One Year Old Night. 10:30-12 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Wednesday
WDAV Music Listening Contest. 12:30-4 p.m. in the 900 Room, Big Screen Room, and Union Conference Room. High school students compete in identifying classical music.
Glory. 9:30-11:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. This Civil War film is a passionate tribute to the first all-black army in the United States.

Thursday
C.R.O.P. Lunch. 11-2 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Friday
“Steppin and Jammin.” 8-10 p.m. in the 900 Room. A “step show” of unique dance routines will be performed by the Black Greek Association of Winthrop University.
Black History Month Book Sale. All day in the Union Lobby.

The Glass Menagerie. Tennessee Williams’ award-winning play about a son’s struggle to free himself from his overbearing mother and crippled sister. February 10-11 at 7:30 p.m., and February 17 at 3:00 p.m. at the Children’s Theatre of Charlotte.

Saturday
Jumpin Java Coffeehouse. 2-6 p.m. in the Union Outpost. Hot coffee and cool folks. It’s hep, daddy-O!

Sunday
I AM THAT I AM: Woman, Black. 7-8 p.m. in the 900 Room. Adilah Barnes will perform a one-woman historical play celebrating contributions of dynamic African-American women.

All Week
Senior Exhibitions. All week in Edward M. Smith Gallery at VAC Art Galleries. Open weekdays 10 a.m.-4 p.m.
Ansel Adams Exhibition. “The Man Who Captured the Earth’s Beauty.” All week in William H. Van Every, Jr. Gallery at VAC Art Galleries. Open weekdays 10 a.m.-4:30 p.m. and weekends 2-5 p.m.

Upcoming
Gator Gumbo Cajun Band. Monday, Feb. 13, 9:30-12 p.m. in 900 Room. Authentic Cajun music and dance instruction, plus food and drink catered by the Cajun Queen.
Bone Marrow Drive. Tuesday, Feb. 14, 9 a.m.-4 p.m. in the Morrison Room.
William Raspberry. Thursday, Feb. 16, 7:30 p.m.-10 p.m. A prominent Washington Post columnist and Pulitzer Prize winner speaks on the topic, “Why is building community so important?”
Sons of Abraham. Sunday, Feb. 19, 2 p.m.-3:30 p.m. in 900 Room. An all-male a cappella singing group performs gospel and contemporary hits, ballads and skits.