RTS & LIVING.

MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1995

A FEW POETIC MOMENTS

Renowned poet A. R. Ammons reads in the 900 Room

By GEORGIE SCHIMMEL
Staff writer

“Know what a rare privilege we have tonight,” Professor Elizabeth Mills said introducing prize-winning poet A. R. Ammons to the crowded 900 Room. Rare indeed. Almost as well-known for not giving recitals as for his critically-acclaimed poems, the white-haired, demure Ammons read from The Really Short Poems of A.R. Ammons, Garbage, and others, and even unveiled new material Tuesday evening.

His crowd received Ammons well. Though he was difficult to understand at times, none can deny, as Mills described, the magic present when “poet and poem come together.” In this case, however, it was poet and poems — many poems. Ammons read a little from everything.

After the reading, Ammons answered questions from the audience. Someone asked how he became interested in writing poetry. He answered that his first poems began as school exercises — imagine the winner of the MacArthur “genius award” Fellowship and the Frost Poetry Medal writing poems as a school exercise. Later, Ammons continued, in the Navy, he discovered an unlikely anthology of poetry which he began to imitate.

Somewhere in the imitation a different style came to him, and Ammons quit Frost and for something a little more droll, a little more unique. His “Pebble’s Story” from Really Short Poems (as if that needed to be said) exemplifies this departure: Wearing away\ wears\ wearing\ away away. Also from the book and in a similar vein, “Their Sex Life”: One failure on\ Top of another.

Whatever Ammons did to learn the composition of verse, he did it well, and now has a slew of awards to his name. He has won, not including those awards already mentioned, the Bollingen Prize, two National Book Awards, and the National Book Critics Circle Award.

It is even rumored that he may receive the Nobel Prize in Physics or Chemistry (they’re running out of awards), but this is not presently ascertained and, though contrary to his apparent trend, unlikely.

In any case, Ammons has come quite a long way from verse imitation aboard a rolling ship in the South Pacific.

Ammons currently teaches at Cornell University, where he is the Goldwin Smith Professor of Poetry. He has written Collected Poems 1951-1971, Briefings, Corson’s Inlet, Diversifications, Northfield Poems, Uplands, The Snow Poems, Worldly Hopes, Sphere: The Form of a Motion, The Really Short Poems of A.R. Ammons, Garbage, and A Coast of Trees.

Recently Ammons edited The Best American Poetry 1994.

Exploring the Colorisms of our world

Studio production entertains without being pretentious

By EMILY SIMMONS
Staff writer

As a part of the Davidson Studio Theatre Season, the Theatre 121 and 221 classes directed and produced Colorisms under the supervision of Rupert T. Barber, Jr., Joseph Gardner, and Ronnie Higdon. The play was performed in the Studio Theatre on Wednesday and Thursday.

The play was composed of 12 scenes dealing with the problems and joys of living in an imperfect world. Both the first and last scenes centered around a “traveler” who spoke with members of a perfect universe about creating an imperfect universe that would have more variety and life than the perfect one. The perfect universe was only black and white, and its inhabitants had no emotions; the traveler proposed that the new universe would have color and emotions.

The leaders of the perfect universe agreed to the creation of the imperfect universe under the condition that if it failed, the traveler would be destroyed along with the imperfect universe. What ensued became the “colorisms” of our world — highlighting

See Colorful on page 11

New Winds break new ground

Trio brings contemporary improvisations to Hodson Hall

By MARY STEPHENS
Staff writer

On Monday night, April 3, the hallowed walls of Hodson Hall were graced with the improvisational woodwind trio New Winds. Witnessed by a handful of expectant students and a shuttle bus of residents from The Pines, this concert was an auditory feast of arrangements by Duke Ellington and Eric Dolphy and original compositions by the trio.

Robert Dick, author of The Other Flute, set the experimental ambience for the evening as he welcomed the audience: “Greetings, non-NCAA-watching earthlings.” Dick offered few words of preparation or commentary before sailing into lengthy renditions with titles such as “Digging It Harder from Afar,” “The Rising and the Swell,” and “Propiocentricity.”

Along with Dick, J.D. Parran and Ned Rothenberg alternated between flutes, clarinets, alto and soprano saxophones, contrabass flute in F, piccolos, and the shakuhachi (an ancient wooden flute from Japan). The group’s mastery of these instruments was impressive, and their innovation with composition and improvisation was both unique and unrivaled.

According to the trio, “The best improvisations

See Windy on page 12