8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Spike Lee’s Clockers paints a grim picture of inner city youth

By ERIC AGLE
Movie Critic

Clockers is a disturbing film. Director Spike Lee has seen many of his films over the past decade open to critical acclaim. Many film critics have called him the leader of the recent African-American wave of films that has come into its own over the course of the past decade. Critics of Lee, however, often point out that he has never made a film dealing with one of the inner city’s more devastating problems: drugs.

Clockers is Lee’s decisive answer to these critics. The film follows one 19-year-old “clocker” (slang for a drug dealer), Strike (Mekhi Phifer), as he tries to stay one step ahead of the law. Daryl Adams, a one-time associate of Strike, has been shot dead in front of the fast food restaurant where he served as the night manager. Strike’s brother, Victor (scene-stealing Isaiah Washington), has confessed to the murder. The detective in charge of the investigation, Rocco Klein (Harvey Keitel), does not believe Victor’s confession. As Klein continues his investigation it becomes clear that Victor might just have been covering up for his little brother. The closer Klein gets to the truth, the faster Strike’s world falls apart.

Before becoming a film, Clockers was a best-selling novel by Richard Price with its focus on Rocco. Lee has changed that focus, however, by cutting out many of the book’s subplots and making Strike the main character. This vision works. Strike is a fascinating figure, a man-child forced to grow up too fast. He constantly plays with an elaborate train set he has set up in his apartment, using it to transport him to worlds far from the grim realities of the street outside. One disturbing montage inter-cuts shots of Strike playing with his train set with shots of desperate drug addicts buying the poison on the streets outside.

Strike’s relationship with a young boy, Tyrone, is at the emotional center of Clockers. Strike affectionately refers to Tyrone as his little brother. One upsetting scene demonstrates the lessons Strike is giving the boy: as Tyrone watches, Strike demonstrates how to cut cocaine, shows off his gun, and tells him that sometimes it’s necessary to “pop a cap” in someone. Looking at Tyrone the moviegoer can’t help but see a younger reflection of how Strike must have appeared as a child — before the strong pressures of the streets outside claimed his soul.

Overall this is a good, but flawed, film. Lee uses a music score that tends to distract the viewer from what transpires on screen. Clockers would have been much fresher had it come out before the spate of Boyz ‘n the Hood and Menace II Society. There are certain touches, however, that make this film work. The opening drug exchange, filmed in a jumpy style reminiscent of work done in reality-based shows such as “Cops,” succeeds in drawing in the viewer. All the interrogation scenes are shot in a hazy, dream-like style that seems to strip away the character’s tough facades to reveal their true, frightened selves. Keitel, Phifer, and all the other actors do fine work.

The most thought-provoking piece of Clockers, however, is its first shot. Strike stands in the foreground, framed by the American flag waving behind him. It’s almost as if Lee is saying that the future of our nation is typified by desperate men such as Strike. This is a grim vision made all the more terrifying when considering that we’re all (as Rocco must eventually come to terms with) at least partly responsible for the hell that we’ve created.

DON’T FORGET ABOUT THE PHOTOGRAPHY CONTEST! ENTRIES ARE DUE THE WEDNESDAY FOLLOWING FALL BREAK. CALL -2148 FOR MORE INFO.To provide you Visit our friendly, modern center and earn cash while helping others. You can bank on us! Earn up to $200 a month by donating life-saving plasma. 1511 Central Avenue at Pecan, Charlotte, NC 28205 333-0335 Valid ID with Social Security number required. M-Th 6:30am-9:00pm F 6:30am-8:00pm Sa 7:30am-6:00pm Su 7:30am-4:30pm © Mary Baxter, Asher Wood, and Liz Sale krave koffee. ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1995 JUMPIN’ JAVA Fall television forecast looks bleak By EMILY SMITH Staff Writer If the only television you’ve been watching is in Chambers Language Lab, don’t feel as if you are being deprived of any promising network smash. Fall premieres will pack the listings this week, and a total of 35 new series are due out by mid-October. Unfortunately, very few are even worth mentioning, including several copycats of the last season hit Friends. Although the show’s plethora of followers can expect to be captivated by the clever dialogue and trend-setting cast, the wanna-be acts leave much to be desired. Another theme reoccurring in the fall lineup is sci-fi suspense. For fans of The X-Files, FOX will release another thriller titled Strange Luck, and American Gothic will air on CBS. In the sitcom department, 26 new shows will serve up warmed-over laughs. Don’t bother watching Pursuit of Happiness, Hudson Street, or Can’t Hurry Love, all making their debut this week. On the tube last week, Melrose Place proved to be a major disappointment (included for those still helplessly hooked). Instead of the infamous fashion divas, viewers saw the cast clad in bandages and somewhat less than realistic bruises. As usual, the battling bitches and the stupid studs bickered relentlessly and acted out a storyline only slightly less ridiculous than they are. You can still count on the returning favorite Seinfeld, or try out the next mega-hit law saga called Murder One. Rumors suggest that the sophisticated show will focus on a major L.A. murder case throughout the first season. (Not to worry — Kato is not the guest star!) As for the rest, the season is lacking in any slightly intelligible material. So, go outside, jog, play flickerball, or watch DCTV. Hell, maybe even study. You won’t miss anything on the tube. Jump from page 8 Krause gave a concert using acoustic guitars. An estimated 120 people were there to get a taste of the “new and improved” coffee house. Jeni Hankins, Chairperson for the Outpost Committee, was encouraged by this and hopes Jumpin’ Java’s success will continue throughout the year. The schedule of events for this semester includes at least two more bands (Negative Utopia played Saturday night), several open microphone poetry readings (every Tuesday night), and other numerous opportunities for students to show their talent. All students are welcome to come to Jumpin’ Java and play the instrument of their choice (or sing). Don’t feel counted out if music isn’t your thing. Many SHS come to enjoy the atmosphere and to socialize. The Outpost is also a great place to study when events have not been planned. On Mondays, Dr. McCarthy has a German table in Jumpin’ Java. The Outpost also serves as a welcome alternative from the green carpeted floors of Little Library and the stark walls of Chambers which may only facilitate stress and anxiety. After gleaning the many benefits of studying, the Outpost is a place to meet new people and enjoy a relaxed atmosphere. Hankins stresses the importance of not stereotyping the coffee house as a place where only a certain group of people convene. The Outpost is open to anyone and “while it’s not a place that everyone will enjoy being, Jumpin’ Java should not be automatically dismissed. The surroundings are laid back, and everyone is welcome to enjoy the atmosphere.” In order to receive more information on Jumpin’ Java, call the Union at -2140. Write for The Davidsonian Call John at -2148.