12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1994

Still Whistlin’ Dixie
GEOFF GRAHAM

Looking back at 1994

The country music year in review

One year ago last week, I pulled on a brand new pair of boots, sat down in front of this
same computer, and tried to give you a list of songs to remember in 1993. Well, 1994 just rolled by,
and here I am again, with the same boots (a little less shiny), staring at the same blinding screen.

So, what has Nashvegas granted us this year? Did Radney Foster bring us another “Easier Said Than Done?” Did Clint
Black belt out another “State of Mind?” Well, no, not this year. My heroes of 1993 took a back seat
to both veterans and maverick newcomers to the country scene.

1. Garth Brooks, “Callin’ Baton Rouge”

At the top of the list this year sits, not surprisingly, Garth Brooks. This is not the Garth of cross-genre
musical fame. This is the Garth of “Cowboy Bill” and “Friends in Low Places.” In “Callin’ Baton Rouge,” I hear
Garth singing as Garth should. He took on the original singers, songwriters, and musicians of New Grass Revival (including Bela
Fleck on banjo) and created the most driving, intense country song of 1994. I can’t believe I used to wonder
why Garth turns a dime.

2. David Ball, “When the Thought of You Catches up with Me”

A woman once broke David Ball’s heart. He once lost months, maybe years, crying over her. He nearly lost himself
in a river of depression — but at least he wrote a great song about it. Congratulations to one of
the year’s most promising newcomers.

3. Diamond Rio, “Love a Little Stronger”

Diamond Rio once again solidified their position as the best band in the new country movement with “Love a Little
Stronger,” as well as their recent hit, “Night is Falling in my Heart.” Both songs betray fantastic musicianship and incredible
vocal arrangements.

4. Lyle Lovett, “Sonja”

Though Lyle stands on the edge of country music, he still holds a great place in my heart. As long
as a goofy lookin’ Texan can marry Julia Roberts, hope still exists for me. Every song on I Love Everybody
could make this list, but “Sonja” stands out even on an album full of masterpieces. If touching lyrics and subtle
(and often shameless) humor mark a great songwriter, then Lyle stands head, hair, and shoulders above the rest.

5. Patty Loveless, “Here I Am”

Patty once again graces my list, becoming the only repeat offender this year. She matches 1993’s touching ballad, “Holding onto
Nothing but the Wheel,” with this year’s equally moving “Here I Am.” Patty’s honest, beautiful voice, tasteful performances, and great
songwriters maintain her position (in my mind at least) as the reigning queen of country.

As for the upcoming year, expect great things from newcomer George Ducas. His latest release, “Lipstick Promises,” is steadily climbing
the charts. Also, expect Clint Black to begin a reassessment of his music. He’s been slowly slipping into mediocrity with
each album, but he’s not dead yet.

When Hemingway saw his career collapsing around him, he mustered every fiber of talent and wrote “The Old Man and
the Sea.” Let’s hope Clint can follow suit.

Enjoy the rest of the year and “keep it between the lines.”

The Department of English announces writing competitions

Come To THE WOMEN’S BASKETBALL GAME VS. WESTERN CAROLINA

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1995

Register to win shoes, bags, t-shirts, water bottles and more...

The R. Windley Hall Writing Award is presented to a member of the freshman class who submits the best work
in fiction, poetry, or nonfiction prose. The judge for this contest will be Sheri Reynolds ’89, whose first novel, Bitterroot
Landing, has just been published by Putnam. She won the Vereen Bell Memorial Award at Davidson in 1988 and 1989.

The Vereen Bell Memorial Award is given annually to that member of the senior, junior, or sophomore class who has
submitted the best work in poetry, fiction, or drama. The judge for this award is the distinguished American poet, Philip
Levine, whose book of poems, What Work Is, received the National Book Award for Poetry in 1991.

The Charles E. Lloyd Award is presented to the member of the sophomore, junior, or senior class for excellence in
nonfiction prose. The judge for this contest is the well-known poet and Davidson alumnus, Dabney Stuart ’60, professor of English
at Washington & Lee University and Editor of Shenandoah. He is the author of 10 collections of poetry, the latest
of which, Light Years, was published by LSU Press in 1994.

All entries should be turned in to a member of the English department no later than 5:00 p.m. on Thursday,
March 2. Please talk to any English professor for further information.
