Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1995

The Davidsonian

"ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS"

Executive Editors
MANDY CURTIS
JOHN COPENHAVER

Arts & Living Editor
KATHERINE HASH

Business Manager
ROBERT RAMSAY

Assistant Arts & Living Editor
TERESA WHITE

Operations Manager
JOSHUA BUCHANAN

Associate Editors
WILLIAM ROBERT
RUSS TARVER

Sports Editor
MATT PITZER

Advertising Managers
MEREDITH BENKE
ANDY BOSWELL

News Editor
MATTHEW EIRICH

Photography Editor
ROB KOSICKI

Circulation Manager
TED PENICK

Assistant News Editor
JOANNA JOHNSON

Assistant Photography Editor
BRANDON CLARKE

Editorial Cartoonist
CHRIS MOORE

Opinions Editor
JEFF KENT

Copy Editor
LAUREN FREEMAN

Founded in 1914
"The South’s Foremost College Weekly"

Staying home
"... and it stoned me just like going home." - Van Morrison

When you become an alum of your high school, you can’t wait to get out. You want to move on,
get things going; you might even avoid the old campus like you would a malarial swamp. College alums act differently.
They love coming back, reminiscing, visiting friends, and having an excuse to get crazy drunk like they used to. Some
stay longer than they plan and cry because they miss the place.

There is a correlation between learning and endearment; we love those the most who teach us the most. Look at
The Karate Kid, and notice how Daniel Laruso’s appreciation for Mr. Miyagi grows when he is shown how washing the
car, painting the fence, painting the house, and sanding the deck have taught him to defend himself. Look at the
alums who returned this past weekend with love for their teachers and fellow students (who are teachers, too) pouring out
of their half-lidded eyes.

"I want to be here again; I want to walk everywhere; I want to know everyone," said one alum. He
lost security. There is little comfort in a wide expanse of strange sights and strangers. Here, you are embraced even
by the air you walk through.

"My education seems to have stopped. I can’t find the incredible knowledge I found here," said another alum. She lost
stimulation. Once you are in the mix, you either know something or you don’t. Here, you have time to learn
about it before it runs you over.

"It’s in the atmosphere and in the feel: Our hands were dirty here, and we liked it. Where can I
dirty my hands now?" asked a third graduate. She lost absorption. Anyone who visits the Careers Office knows that it
is not easy to find a job, internship, or activity to keep you busy post-May; some follow up commencement with
unemployment. Here, all you have to do is sign up for something, write an article, or go to a meeting,
and you’re in.

So, is it security, stimulation, and absorption that has such a hold on us and on graduates? Or is it
relationships formed in the context of common experience? Or both?

"Listen. You can hear it," said one alum. "You can smell it, too. It’s in the air."

"What is?" we asked.

"Me. And my class. And everyone who has graduated from this place. We’re in the air. We’re in the dirt
and in the trees. And that’s it — we’ll always be here."

THE ARTIST IN A RARE MOMENT OF SERENITY

LETTERS

The Habitat house

To the editors,

We are very excited to tell you about plans for building a Davidson College sponsored Habitat House. Habitat for Humanity
is an international, ecumenical organization committed to the elimination of sub-standard housing. Volunteers work in partnership with families to build
houses and communities around the world.

The idea for a Davidson College sponsored house was a result of a spark started by various groups of students
and staff all over campus. From a Habitat trip to Jacksonville last spring break to a leadership conference in Charleston
in May to a meeting of the Patterson Court service coordinators several weeks ago, we have been overwhelmed with the...Interest
expressed in this project. We are hoping to use this energy to put the event in motion. A group of
students, faculty, and staff have come together to form the Habitat House Committee to organize this event. The committee is
comprised of 26 people who will coordinate the fundraising, volunteers, building, publicity, and education. Forty thousand dollars need to be
raised to build the house. The building will be done next semester. If you would like to be involved in
one of these groups or hold a fundraiser for the house, please contact the committee chairs listed below. People who
would like to build will have the opportunity to sign up later. You can get involved in some of the
upcoming events including Homeruns for Habitat on October 21, a Kickoff Event in November, and the Variety Show on December
2. Watch for “House Jars” around campus to make your donation. It is our sincere desire that all students, faculty,
and staff be involved. If everyone donated twenty dollars, we would have all the money we need to build the
house. Please join us in this exciting campus event. Thanks in advance for your support.

Sincerely,
Smita Donthamsetty, President of Reach Out
Catherine Turner, Community Service Coordinator

A choir commitment

To the editors,

In light of the recent controversy regarding the unfortunate rescheduling of Fall Convocation, I would like to acknowledge publicly the
60 students who are members of the Davidson College Concert Choir for their willingness to perform at Convocation as is
their custom. They knew that almost none of their classmates would attend the event so as to get an early
start on Fall Break. Yet each singer put personal feelings aside for the greater good of the ensemble—their commitment to
each other came first. This display of commitment was due in no small part to the leadership provided by the
choir’s thirteen seniors, all of whom were in attendance. Thus, I salute my entire choir, and especially my seniors—Jin Chang,
Amanda Davis, Elizabeth dePrater, Melinda Fritz, Emily Giacomini, Nicole Howard, Beth Lindsey, Liz Lockett, John Patterson, Christine Roberts, Darrell Smith,
Josh Wood, and Scarlet Wynns—for a job splendidly done. I am very proud of you.

Sincerely,
Donna M. Di Grazia
Assistant Professor of Music

Phi Delt dissatisfied

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices
are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or
commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

Let me set the scene: nine months of planning, “the biggest crowd in the middle of Patterson Court since The
Dave Matthews Band’s performance in 1993” (which is debatable), and a poor reporting job on the part of The Davidsonian.
Yes, I’m talking about Otis Day and the Knights! “The $10,000 band of 95” (which is grossly inaccurate) was sponsored
by Phi Delta Theta, Connor, Black Student Coalition, Rusk, and Warner Hall, but nobody from any of these houses was
interviewed by The Davidsonian for the October 2nd “Otis lives on!” article. I’m sure that any of the toga-wearing Phi
Delts in The Davidsonian’s picture of Otis would have been more than happy to comment on their efforts to bring
Otis to Davidson. They could have told any Davidsonian writer interesting facts such as all of the Knights are new
since the movie, even though some of them have played with Otis for 12 and 13 years, or that the
band does over 200

See Pissed on page 9
