2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 20, 1995

Town of Davidson builds new library
By Meg Wolff
Staff Writer

The idea to build a new library arose during a Davidson town meeting in 1990. At the time, Davidson had the highest per capita circulation of any library in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg system. After that initial discussion, those in the library system began to talk about closing several small, regional libraries. Fortunately, Davidson was able to prove that its library deserved to remain open and moved toward the construction of a new library facility.

According to Town Manager Leamon Brice, the new library is a three-way partnership between the college, the town of Davidson, and the library system. Davidson College provided the site for the library, leasing it to the town for only $1 a year. The college Physical Plant is also overseeing the construction of the library. The town of Davidson provides the financing for the library and will maintain the lawn. The library system will reimburse Davidson for the cost of the building. Some of the financing will be provided by Davidson to cover costs not covered by the library system.

According to Brice, a fundraising campaign has begun, and the committee hopes to wind up its major gifts campaign, or “naming” gifts campaign, by next week. So far $80,000 of the $136,000 goal has been raised. Brice says that soon the opportunity to give will be presented to the community using neighborhood “captains” to pass out brochures and pledge cards to heighten community awareness and interest.

The library is scheduled to be completed in mid-August, and Brice hopes the library will be fully occupied by September. A unique feature of the library is a stage or large balcony on the front to contribute to the many community festivities held on the green. The library also will have audio-visual areas, a community room, and adult and child reading rooms.

A PARTNERSHIP OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE, TOWN OF DAVIDSON, AND PUBLIC LIBRARY OF CHARLOTTE & MECKLENBURG COUNTY
Jenkins Peer des T.K. Browne Construction Ini Rob Kosicki - Town of Davidson gets new biblioteca.

Women’s Month brings events for all
By Mary Laura Moretz
Staff Writer

As the month of March continues, so does a series of events to celebrate Women’s Month. The Union Committee for Women’s Issues and other campus groups, including BSC and FLAG, have organized speakers, movies, forums, and entertainment for all Davidson students and faculty — not just women — to attend.

Annual events associated with Women’s Month will be repeated this year. On March 27, the 900 Room will host the fifth annual Sexuality Forum, a candid “everything you ever wanted to know about sexual orientation but were afraid to ask” event. Take Back the Night will occur on March 30, beginning in the 900 Room and ending with a walk through campus.

Women’s Issues Committee Chairperson Sarah Orsbon, who organized most of the activities for Women’s Month, has arranged for some nationally prominent speakers. Patricia Ireland, President of NOW, will speak on March 28 about violence against women.

Two events offer the opportunity for discussion of the female body image. Mimi Weich performed a dramatic comedy on eating disorders followed by an audience discussion on March 2. Davidson psychologist Dr. DeWitt Crosby and News Intern Sara Carlson will lead an open discussion on body image and sexuality on March 23.

Plenty of entertainment will round out the month. Steel Magnolias will play in the Union. The ASE Drumming Circle, a women’s percussion group, will play in the 900 Room March 25.For art enthusiasts, Maria Wiatrowski’s paintings will be displayed in the Union Gallery throughout the rest of the month. For those interested in becoming more involved in the events to raise awareness of women’s concerns on campus, the Women’s Issues Committee will hold a potluck dinner on March 20 for anyone interested or hungry. Letitia Campbell, who worked with Orsbon in coordinating the month’s events and will become the new chairperson, considers the month “a chance for people, men and women, to connect over issues that are relevant to everyone’s lives. I hope it will inspire a lot of conversation.”

Students try to resurrect WALT
By SARAH TEACHWORTH
Staff Writer

Davidson students enjoy all types of music from country to alternative to classical to heavy metal. Some may find it odd, then, that the college’s only radio station, WDAV, plays only classical music. To provide a diversity of music, Todd Bowman held an organizational meeting to gauge the interest of forming a student-run alternative radio station called WALT on February 27.

WALT was an actual station in the 1970s but was pulled off the air when the rebellious students of the era were disrespectful of the administration on the air. From 1979 to 1990, there have been several attempts to get the station running again. However, all have failed, primarily because of resistance from the offices of the President and Dean of Students.

In 1992, a committee of six or seven students made some progress. They drew up some by-laws and were registered with the Dean of Students Office. The Union then approved a limited amount of funding. But the WALT committee was unable to raise the additional funds necessary to bring the station back to life.

Bowman explained that the new group of interested students had a massive amount of technical work to do before they could even begin to discuss the fun things, such as programming and disk jockeying. The equipment used by the first WALT station is very outdated, and the wires it ran on are now rotted because of faulty installation and not being used for the past 20 years.

A new committee would have to figure out the logistics of broadcasting, including whether to use AM or FM, and what to use as a power source. They also would need to come up with a charter and by-laws for administrative approval. Approximately 25 students attended the organizational meeting, and no additional meetings have been held since that time. Attendees’ outlooks ranged from excited and optimistic to extremely skeptical.

Junior Churchill Hooff, a member of the WALT committee, says, “I think we could get the station running next year if we can get organized.” After nearly 20 years, the question of whether or not such organization is probable — or even possible — remains.

SUMMER
Be a Summer Tar Heel!
Session I: May 18-June 23, 1995
Session II: June 27-August 1, 1995

Students from any college or university, teachers, rising high school seniors, and any others who are not enrolled at UNC-CH may apply as Visiting Summer Students for first, second, or both sessions.

UNC-CH offers, during two 5 and a half week sessions, over 900 courses in 45 disciplines. A typical course load per session is 6 semester hours.

Approximate Cost per session: tuition and fees of $125 PLUS $47 per credit hour for NC resident undergraduates or $341 per credit hour for nonresident undergraduates.

When requesting a catalog and application, please mention seeing this ad in The Davidsonian for special attention.

Summer School
CB#3340, 200 Pettigrew Hall
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3340
Phone: 919-962-1009
Fax: 919-962-2752