6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1995

Week in Washington

Congress debates Bosnia policy

By DAVID SANTSCHI
Washington Week Correspondent

As President Clinton articulated his reasons for sending U.S. troops to enforce the Bosnian peace settlement, Republican congressional leaders offered
only cautious support for the mission. Clinton made his case in a twenty-minute televised address from the Oval Office last
Monday. He sought to rally Americans behind the dispatch of peacekeeping troops to enforce the U.N.-sponsored Bosnian peace accord. The
President argued that America has both a moral duty and a strategic interest in ending the three-year-old conflict. While vowing
to end “the mass executions, the ethnic cleansing, the campaigns of rape and terror,” Clinton argued that “the war would
reignite” and NATO would be crippled without American intervention.

The Bosnian peace agreement was signed two weeks ago by the Presidents of Bosnia, Serbia, and Croatia at Wright Patterson
Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio. It authorizes the placement of 60,000 NATO troops, a third of them Americans, in
Bosnia to enforce a cease-fire and protect a 2.5-mile-wide buffer zone between the warring groups. Clinton pledged that the 20,000
American troops sent to Bosnia will be commanded by an American general and limit themselves to peacekeeping operations. The Joint
Chiefs of Staff predict that the mission will cost $2 billion and last approximately one year. The troops will be
“heavily armed and thoroughly trained” in order “to respond with overwhelming force.”

Acknowledging the risks of military intervention in the war-ravaged region, Clinton assumed full responsibility for any casualties. His speech only
partially convinced skeptical lawmakers that American vital interests are at stake in Bosnia. Although Clinton does not need formal congressional
authorization to send troops, a joint resolution supporting the mission would enhance its credibility.

The House of Representatives is more hostile to Clinton’s proposal than the Senate. Majority Leader Dick Armey (R-TX) said obtaining
House support “is not going to be ... an easy proposition.” Many freshman Republicans are wary of American participation. “I
see no reason to send young men over there to lose their lives over something we can do nothing about,”
said Rep. Sue Myrick (R-NC) of Charlotte.

Republicans in the Senate were more subdued in their reaction because Majority Leader Bob Dole (R-KS), who suffered severe injuries
in World War II, threw his support behind the President. “We in the Congress have a responsibility to try to
ensure — to our best ability — that as this deployment goes forward, that we create the conditions to end
it quickly and successfully,” Dole said on the Senate floor Thursday. Dole argued that once the President has decided to
commit American forces, he should be supported to preserve military morale and public confidence.

Objections in Senate committee hearings surfaced around two issues: the real possibility of American casualties and the chances of a
military stalemate. Sen. Sam Nunn (D-GA), who is highly respected on military issues, sought a clearer definition of the goals
and timetable of the mission. But most others followed Dole’s example and expressed reluctant support for U.S. action that is
widely perceived as inevitable. In Senate testimony Tuesday, former national security advisor Brent Scowcroft said, “Risky as I think the
situation is for U.S. troops, the alternative, in my judgment, is a clear disaster.”

Senate Republicans on Thursday began drafting a bipartisan resolution supporting the use of American soldiers in Bosnia. A resolution will
depend on reaching agreement on whether U.S. troops should be permitted to train and arm Bosnian Muslims. A joint resolution
of Congress is scheduled to be approved before the formal signing of the peace accord on December 14. If troops
are sent shortly afterward, they will test Clinton’s belief that America “can mean the difference between peace and war.”

Sources include: November 28 and 29 and December 1 of The New York Times and November 28 and 30 of
The Wall Street Journal.

Dean Rusk Program

Sarajevo: Another Jerusalem?

By ERIC COLLINS
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

On November 21, following three weeks of intense negotiations, the leaders of the three rival Balkan states — Presidents Alija
Izetbegovic of Bosnia, Franjo Tudjman of Croatia, and Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia — initialed a peace agreement ending the nearly
four years of warfare in the Balkans. The agreement divides Bosnia into two entities — a Bosnian-Croat Federation and a
Bosnian Serb Republic — and accords refugees the legal right to return to their homes. A constitution creates a central
government with a group presidency, a two-house legislature, and a central bank although each entity will have its own president
and legislature as well. Sixty thousand NATO peacekeeping troops will patrol 2.5-mile-wide buffer zones between the parties.

However, even as Secretary of State Warren Christopher praised the deal as “a victory for all those who believe in
a multi-ethnic democracy in Bosnia,” Bosnian Serbs, who had ceded their negotiating rights to President Milosevic, criticized provisions for the
status of Sarajevo.

Sarajevo played a prominent role during the past four years. The site of the 1984 Winter Olympics is considered the
soul of Bosnia and an important symbol of resistance against the initial Serb sieges. The February 1994 Sarajevo marketplace massacre
led NATO to conduct its first-ever offensive operation, and another mortar attack this past September galvanized public opinion against the
Bosnian Serbs and yielded retaliatory NATO airstrikes which many believe helped pressure the Bosnian Serbs to accept a ceasefire. The
Dayton Accord, which willbe formally signed in Paris on December 14, creates a united Sarajevo under the control of the
Bosnian-Croat Federation. The Bosnian government insisted upon and won an open unified city. The Bosnian Serbs wanted some parts of
the city to become part of the new Serb Republic and fear that the Dayton Accord will force long-time Serb
residents to leave. Therefore, as most Americans, including President Clinton and Congress, debate the decision to send 20,000 U.S. soldiers
to Bosnia as part of the NATO peacekeeping force under the command of American General George Joulwan, the Bosnian Serb
leadership intensifies its rhetoric about Sarajevo. In his first public appearance since the announcement of the peace accord, the Bosnian
Serb military leader General Ratko Mladic called for a new solution for Sarajevo, insisted that Sarajevan Serbs would never submit
to Bosnian government control, and declared “we cannot allow our people to come under the rule of butchers.” His comments,
laced with criticism of the deployment of NATO troops, echoed sentiments expressed by fellow indicted war criminal Radovan Karadzic who
suggested that Sarajevo will become the next Beirut, and those of Momcilo Krajisnik, President of the self-styled Bosnian Serb parliament.
These statements foreshadow a possible obstacle to the safety of the NATO forces. For every resident of Sarajevo who believes
the peace agreement means a rebirth, a return to peace, or simply “no more being afraid of a bullet finding
me or freezing on the front line,” there is another who fears more genocide or persecution. Sarajevan Serbs fear reprisals
under the rule of the Muslim-led government, and some Muslims believe that once the NATO troops depart, “the evil that
befell Yugoslavia will resurrect itself again.” Statements such as those by French President Chirac who recently suggested that measures to
protect the Bosnian Serbs in Sarajevo should be added to the Dayton Accord threaten the viability of the agreement. Nevertheless,
the future of Sarajevo holds great potential for furthering the peace process. The city, intermixed with Muslim mosques and Orthodox
churches, could, as it grows, build social and cultural bridges which supersede even the most bitter ethnic divisions and lead
to a resumption of peoples’ lives.

NOTES

Hormone levels may dictate alcohol and drug use

LEXINGTON, KY — Think it’s just a coincidence that the hairiest guy at the bars is always the most sober?
Maybe not. Researchers at the University of Kentucky already knew that hormones trigger bodily changes in students, but recent research
indicates that they may also influence whether they drink alcohol and smoke cigarettes or marijuana. UK psychiatrists found that high
school girls who drink and smoke have higher levels of the male hormone testosterone, which increases impulsivity and risk-taking behavior,
and the female hormone estradiol than girls who don’t. Increased levels of estradiol have been linked with breast cancer later
in life as well as feelings of depression and sadness in adolescents. Male high school students who drink alcohol and
smoke marijuana are likely to have high levels of testosterone as well. Students with lots of a hair-growth hormone, though,
are less likely than their peers to smoke marijuana. This hormone drains their energy and, researchers speculate, makes them less
interested in experimentation. It’s unknown, though, whether increased hormones lead to substance abuse or if it’s the other way around.
The study examined 160 students at two Kentucky high schools, one rural and one urban. The students, most of whom
were 16, answered a survey and said whether they drank or smoked during the previous year. Researchers then took blood
from each student and analyzed it for hormones. Dr. Catherine Martin, the lead researcher, said the study could help prevent
substance abuse and potentially serious health problems by identifying at-risk teens early.

Textbook on the Web

RALEIGH — To John Russ, seeing is believing. That’s why the North Carolina State University engineering professor says he created
a multimedia textbook on the World Wide Web for his students. The CD-ROM textbook, which serves as a study aid
for students at NC State and 25 other colleges nationwide, grew out of Russ’ own classroom experience, in which he
noticed how engineering students in large introductory classes had some difficulty grasping the material. Soon, Russ began using computer simulations,
graphics, and animation in class to help illustrate his points. Still, for most of the technical material, he had to
resort to verbal explanations. “One student said to me, ‘If these are such complex topics that you can’t draw them
on the board, how am I supposed to take notes on them?’” Russ says. That inspired Russ to develop a
CD-ROM textbook. No longer confined to explaining complex mechanical processes by drawing illustrations on a chalkboard, Russ and other NCSU
instructors can use class time to answer questions and refine concepts knowing that the students always have access to a
technological tutor. “We have a lot of information that we’re trying to pump into [the students] through the wrong conduit
— their ears instead of their eyes,” Russ says. This year, Russ put his material — all 300 work problems,
700 movies, and 1,500 pages of text — on the WWW. In addition to explanations of the included material, the
Visualizations in Material Space page has hundreds of animated examples, including a video tour of a steel plant and moving
graphics of a sledgehammer breaking various items. “It’s basically a better way for students to learn,” says Russ, crediting the
team of NCSU students who helped with the site. “That’s the whole idea.” The Visualizations in Material Space page can
be found at http://vims.ncsu.edu. -from College Press Service
