14° THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1995

The great “Pumpkins” return with Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness

By James BERRY
Staff Writer

“Sixteen-ninety five,” said the cashier without even touching the register. I’d made an extra special trip to Best Buy to
pick up the new Smashing Pumpkins album (which was apparently selling well) and was surprised to find so few left.
I mean, so what if their first major-label release, Siamese Dream, went triple platinum? Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness,
having just hit the stores October 24, is two CDs, twenty-eight songs, two full hours (plus), or, in other words,
some very serious rock. This doesn’t seem the type of album you buy on impulse and yet there were only
three lonely copies left on the shelf. Talk about a solid fan base.

I’ve never in my life bought a double CD so the idea of a concept album has always puzzled me.
Two CDs simply meant more songs. And in one sense, Mellon Collie etc. is just a collection of more songs.
(A lot more!) But it also offers a thread of continuity. The beat changes, the guitars weave in and out
of distortion, and the vocals range from harsh screams to gentle whispers, but the theme holds throughout. Billy Corgan is
still ticked off... but he loves you.

While the new album has a lot of variety and punch, Siamese Dream it’s not. I hate to make the
comparison but everyone’s heard “Today” and if they missed that then there’s always “Disarm.” Those songs were perfect down to
the last note. Granted, it took two years and a couple mental breakdowns, but it was partly the album’s flawlessness
that made it stand out. Many of the songs on Mellon Collie were recorded live (meaning that the band was
playing simultaneously in the studio instead of overdubbing one at a time) which makes for a much looser feel and
a different sound than the signature “28 guitars at once” that Siamese Dream boasted. Don’t get me wrong, the harder
songs still rock but in a more realistic light.

When Billy Corgan first announced that the band would be putting out a double album, he hinted that they would
be looking into different recording techniques and mentioned U2’s Zooropa as an example. They followed through by signing Flood (who
has worked extensively with U2 since Achtung Baby) as one of their three producers and the influence can be heard.
The Pumpkins took a lot of artistic license with this album. Part of the reason they wanted two CDs was
to document the band’s wide interests. Evidence of this comes out in songs like “1979” and “We Only Come Out
at Night” which use drum loops instead of Jimmy Chamberlin’s live drums. “Lily (My One And Only),” a Beatlesque little
ditty about voyeurism, has some country-style slide guitar in the background while “Cupid de Locke” is based heavily on synthesizers
rather than guitars.

This is not to say that the group has made a complete one-eighty. Songs like “Jellybelly,” “Zero,” and “Bullet With
Butterfly Wings” all have the crunch and speed demonstrated on Gish (the band’s first album) and Siamese Dream. Yet, these
too sound a little more processed and computerized much like Edge’s guitar on “Numb.”

One of the biggest disappointments is the lack of guitar solos on the new album. Rarely does a guitarist know
what’s appropriate for a particular song and where it should go. Billy Corgan is, in my opinion, the exception to
that rule. He has a style and sound all his own that he is careful to enlist only when a
song calls for it. I think Mellon Collie has three or four solos total and some of these are hidden
under so many effects that it’s hard to hear the notes beyond a metallic growl. In fact, it’s hard to
hear Corgan’s voice sometimes. While some songs leave the vocals stripped of any reverb whatsoever (which gives his voice a
tinny, in-your-face quality), others hide the vocals within the mix or distort them to the point of incomprehension.

Overall I think Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness is a decent album. Although the songs that were given the
“live”treatment suffered, there are plenty that retain some of the Pumpkins’ perfection and majesty without sounding like the sequel to
Siamese Dream. Just be prepared to spend vast amounts of time listening to this monster. Two hours is a lot
of music.

Rusted Root played to a sold-out crowd in Love.

With any ice cream or frozen yogurt purchase and this coupon.

507 Providence Rd. * 333-1003
The Arboretum * 543-8333
202 S. Main St. * Davidson * 892-0604
VERMONT'S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT.

Rob Kosicki

Rusty from page 1

After a week of being sold only to students, tickets were made available to the public on Wednesday, creating a
diverse crowd but leaving some Davidson students sans tickets. Greene expressed sincere regret, saying, “I feel badly that students didn’t
get tickets,” but was pleased with the sell-out.

Opening act Joan Osbourne’s admonishment to the crowd which remained sedentary during her performance, “I bet you dance for Rusted
Root,” proved prophetic. “Back to the Earth” found fans packed into the aisles and balcony, spinning and swaying during Root’s
entire show. Other percussion-driven tunes, like “Lost in a Crowd” and the twangy “Rain” from the band’s latest album When
I Woke, followed smoothly in Root’s flowing, jamming style. The voices of Michael Glabicki and Liz Berlin rendered hauntingly the
angry, plaintive “Cruel Sun,” and the infectious energy of my favorite, “Martyr,” left the crowd clapping and howling and unsatisfied.
Rusted Root returned for its two-song encore, the last being the inevitable hit “Send Me on My Way” of MTV
fame. Thus the crowd was sent back to Earth from the warmth of Love, singing, whistling, and humming remnants of
Rusted Root’s “aggressive, acoustic, body-moving music.”

Reaction to Rusted Root varied in its positive intensity. Junior Martin Young declared, “This was the best concert since I’ve
been at Davidson. Way better than Dave.” Both the technical — lights, sound, and the efforts of over 80 indispensable
volunteers including juniors Amy Clemmons and Jason Schmidt — and the intangible mood give credence to this claim. Sophomore Dom
Talvacchio was ecstatic, vowing to “drop out of Davidson and follow Root to the ends of the Cosmos!”

Chubby from page 12

Gradually slips into an altered state of relaxation. After a few minutes of this, one should begin the “rocking horse”
technique in which one hand is on top of the other and with some pressure both are run up the
spine. The second part of this step is to use your fingers and run them back down the spine in
a sequence — one right after the other. By the time one hand reaches halfway down the back, the other
hand should begin. This made me feel like I had a thousand little people roller skating on my back and
down my spine.

The third method is the “corkscrew” which starts at the shoulders (hands pointed toward each other) and goes down the
spine in a figure eight pattern. Reverse it on your way up. This step requires the most dexterity and fluidity.
The fourth step, “quarters,” involved turning in the thumbs and massaging in small quarter-sized circles up and down the spine.
Fifth comes hacking, which is the traditional “karate chopping” up and down the spine. It is extremely important that this
step is done when the muscles are relaxed so the muscles of the back aren’t injured or bruised. It is
also necessary to do a cool down at the end of the massage session.

Davidson should make massaging a ritual. Every week anyone who wants to should be able to convene and do some
serious massaging. Substitute that hour that you’d be going to the Union to lose yourself in a pint of Ben
& Jerry’s Chubby Hubby (alone) by finding a friend and doing a quick massage. Why not? You'll feel none of
the guilt and you’ll gain peace of mind. Isn’t that what we’re all after? Go ahead and join in on
the fun! Grab a few friends and relax for a change.

A glimpse from afar ...
“Yeah, this is a snobby school. If it weren’t, I bet most of us wouldn’t be here.”
-from The Amherst Student
