THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1995

OPINIONS

Casey Hawthorne

Diversity demands expression

My roommate must have reached new levels of desperation. He has come to me, Casey Hawthorne, the man he dubbed
“the math dork,” asking for an article. I guess we know who has won the duel of majors between math
and English. Let it be known that I would never go to the so-called “El Jefe” for help with math.
Despite, as Stan Boyd so aptly stated last week, the gun being at my head, I’m actually writing to voice
a true concern of mine.

I recently took part in an interview about dating at Davidson. After answering the myriad of questions ranging from “how
do you define hooking up?” to “does dating actually exist at Davidson?” I began wondering how people at Davidson really
get to know each other and what activities on campus actually facilitate such intimate encounters.

The best and most universal example comes from class. We are forced to intermingle daily with new people with whom
we must have something in common or we wouldn’t be in the same class. Unfortunately, however, I would have to
say I haven’t met any lifelong friends in class. I have developed more than one close relationship sitting at my
house trying to digest another corn dog or running naked through the women’s houses on self-selection night.

Along with the fraternities and eating houses, we have the scores of parties each semester. But it is really hard
to get to know anyone when you can barely understand a word they say, or when you can’t even remember
their name the next morning. That’s pretty much it for social activity forums. Unfortunately, after compiling this list I realized
there still exists a large necessity for organizations where people can socialize and meet. Not everyone likes going to the
court, not everyone enjoys humanities lecture.

Then there are sports. Anybody who has ever played a sport realizes the special bond you form with anybody with
whom you sweat and shower that much. There are also lists of administrative programs sponsored by the Union, and, of
course, the list of eating houses and fraternities. Speaking from experience, I can acknowledge the few unique examples such as
the Dean Rusk Program, F.L.A.G., Hobart Park, the Young Republicans, and such programs provided by a few majors such as
the language tables at the Commons or the math coffees. But somehow I think being one of the top schools
in the country and boasting a diverse and varied student body, we have failed to meet many of the interests
outside of writing, foreign affairs, languages, or scholarship.

A friend of mine goes to the University of Texas where there exist such diverse and extreme organizations as the
Young Cross Dressing Attorneys. This may be a little bizarre, but it proves the point that diverse interests exist, and
they need attention. We could have organizations for displaced Yankees suffering from carpetbagger prejudice. We could have a crew of
people who study and enjoy certain types of music. I would like to be the first to invite people who
love to cook to form a cooking club that experiments with international and regional dishes. If you have an interest,
get moving, and start a club.

David Emily O’Brien

I have been consumed this week by sex. I suppose that the proper term is “gender,” but in this ever
increasingly politically correct world a little boldness cannot hurt. Anyway, for some reason every conversation that I started this week
turned rapidly to a discussion of gender relations. Now the fact that I am on the Rusk board, and helped
organize “Hook Party” may have had something to do with it. The truth of the matter is that I learned
a lot this week from these conversations. There are several varieties of opinions about what certain Davidson terms mean. Considering
that I always give my opinion before someone asks for it, here is my list of Davidson terms as I
have seen them over the years:

Hook: Contrary to some of the definitions I heard...From people this week, “hook” does NOT mean having sex. Yes, sex
happens here at Davidson, and yes, it happens sometimes while “hooking,” but a hook can mean anything from a kiss
on the dance floor to staying over in someone’s room for three weekends in a row.

Watching a Movie: This term is arguable, but from my experience, it is a good way of getting to know
people. I have taken all of my friends for years, and they have returned the favor. I can honestly say
I have had a better time than most people who are suffering while trying to “hook” with their dates.

Chillin’: Coined by a certain fast frat boy friend of mine, this term is the alternative to dating at Davidson.
It is the eternal state of limbo that both guys and girls live in when they do not know what
is up with the person they are hanging out with. This is a pick-up line. Don’t get me wrong, all
the chaos surrounding Hook Party and Senior Champagne Party has given me some hope in that we are thinking, and
at least this week, we are talking.

Calling: When someone asks you to “go watch a movie” at 2 a.m., chances are he or she may not
even have a VCR.

Date Function: Date functions are not threatening events. If someone asks you to a date function, you are neither beholden
to hook up with them nor have a relationship (fear!!!!) with them.

Dating: I am not really sure how to define this considering it happens so infrequently at Davidson except for certain
seniors and juniors who prefer to refer to dating as being “together.” In other words, she is with him, and
he is with her.

Hanging Out: Also referred to as “chillin’.” Calling is a myth at Davidson. Contrary to the rest of the world,
I think that the phones stop working on Sunday night. So keep that in mind next time you are waiting
for a call. Calling is a varied issue, and in all of my conversations this week, no consensus occurred, except
that not calling after a date function is a major faux pas. Calling leads me to my next term.

Saying Hey: Picture this, you are walking on the third floor of Chambers on the Union side. “HE” or “SHE”
is walking towards you coming from the Poly Sci side. Do you say “hey, what’s up?” and keep on going,
or do you actually stop and talk to the person even though you fear an awkward situation? Chances are one
or the other of you could bolt down those life-saving center stairs. I personally would recommend talking to the person.

I have learned a lot this week. Everyone at Davidson thinks differently about the gender situation. All of the chaos
about Hook Party and Senior Champagne Parties has given me some hope, however, in that we are thinking, and at
least this week, we are all talking.

Jefe from page 8: I love it when people stop by to visit or give me a ring. The human
voice is a lot more appealing than a computer screen. And what happens when you start interviewing for jobs? You
can’t do that via e-mail. If I ever catch someone trying to ask someone else out on a date over
e-mail, I will go berserk. There are definite benefits of the technology of the computer age, but we can’t let
ourselves lose every last skill we have by relying completely on computers. Nothing seems real anymore. Remember the old days
when people used to “call” on their friends instead of using stealth voice mail messages or e-mail to communicate? Remember
when companies would send real, live representatives to meetings instead of speaking over computer-generated conference screens? Maybe I’m just old-fashioned:
I like people more than machines. When I graduate in May and assume the CEO position of a major corporation,
I’m taking everything back to old school. Maybe I dislike computers because they are smarter than me. Or maybe I
just get lost in this age of tofu, modems, fax machines, fake breasts, afternoon talk shows, athletic strikes, and Microsoft
Windows. Either way, I’m scared, because if I’m overwhelmed at 21, I don’t even want to imagine where I'll be
at 61.
