THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS - MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1995

Speaker encourages action on homelessness

By Adam Hickey
Staff Writer

Stressing “public policy, not public chaos,” Dr. Ralph da Costa Nunez brought his vision of how to help the homeless
to the 900 Room on November 8. The event was cosponsored by the Public Lectures Committee and the Homelessness Committee
of Reach Out. It fell in the middle of “Reach Out Into the Streets Week,” the group’s annual service drive.

“A decade ago I don’t know if we could have done something for a 19-year-old [mother with children]... Today, there
is a window of opportunity. The thing is to make public policy and go through it,” said Nunez.

With a conservative blue suit, strong messages of optimism, and a string of statistics quoted from memory, he won the
support of the audience of roughly 50 people, coming off more as a businessman making a specific proposal than a
social reformer pleading for change.

Holding a doctorate in political science from Columbia, where he now teaches, Nunez is president and CEO of the not-for-profit
corporation Homes for the Homeless, which he describes as a “transitional welfare program,” operating out of New York City. Nunez
served in government for over nine years, worked as the head of public housing for New York City, and has
labored in the private sector for an additional nine. He is the author of the book "Hopes, Dreams, and Promise:
The Future."

Dr. Ralph da Costa Nunez discusses homelessness

What is the basic difference between what your program is trying to do and what the private sector is doing
now?
We're looking to give people not just independent housing, but to make them independent of assistance.

Where do you place the blame for the current state? Is it the Reagan policy?
Yep.

So it’s the fault of the Republican party?
I wouldn’t blame the Republican party. I would blame Ronald Reagan personally, because he sent the message that did this.

Last fall, when a massive number of Republicans were elected to office, what was your first reaction?
It wasn’t negative. I said, “This is good. It’s time to look at the other side of the equation. It’s
time to break the stalemate.”

Some might say your message is liberal in goal, but conservative in approach. Do you agree?
Everybody says it’s conservative in approach, but I don’t think it’s liberal in goal. I think it’s logical in goal.
We all want everyone off public assistance, we all want to reduce dependency, but we have to take a hard
right turn to do this.

Are you a Democrat or a Republican?
I am a New Democrat; I am a moderate. I’ve spent a lot of time working with the Bush administration,
and I’ve spent time with this administration.

What in your life has caused you to become involved in the homelessness issue?
Seventy-five percent of the homeless in this country are kids, and there’s no reason to leave children in this state
of poverty — it’s not such a hard thing to change.

What personal things?
It’s three elements. First, I teach at Columbia, so I understand there’s a need for public policy on this issue,
and I know what that public policy needs to be. I’ve spent nine years in government dealing with issues on
kids and the homeless issue in a very big way in New York City. I know what government can and
cannot do. And I’ve spent nine years in the non-profit sector, and I know what the non-profit sector should do.

Did working in government frustrate you? Did you become very disillusioned?
No, not at all. It encouraged me.

You see that there is opportunity for government to be productive?
Absolutely.

You don’t think bureaucracy stands in the way?
There’s bureaucracy, but you know what? You can go right around it. It doesn’t have to stand in the way.

After 18 years in a “war” which some would say has made little or no difference, to what do you
owe your optimistic attitude?
I’ve seen the difference. I’ve seen things work. I’ve seen things fail, but I’ve seen many more be successful. I
know that there is opportunity.

Are there any special images that you can remember that motivate you?
Whenever I see a class of young mothers graduate in their caps and gowns...Whenever I see, suddenly, the “I can
do it!” look on their face. Do you get emotionally involved in your work? Nope. I stay a step above
so I can always make the right decisions. I “vicariously” experience it. When I read that a thousand kids went
to summer camps, when I read that eight mothers started junior college, or that we put this year 400 mothers
to work, that’s my reward. Do you ever get discouraged? Nope. If you lose optimism, you lose the vision. If
you lose the vision, you lose the pie. How do you counteract the apathy that you say is so prevalent?
I tell them what the issue is: it’s a children’s issue. Nobody in this country is interested in having kids
on the street. Nobody’s interested in having kids grow up only to end up in jail. They [people] have to
be shown the face of the issue.

Some would describe Davidson as “very conservative,” almost complacent. What would you say to students like us in a small
community, who come from upper-middle-class homes, who don’t touch the problem? You’re going to touch this problem. You’re going to
touch this problem indirectly. If you don’t work with these kids today, you’re going to pay for them tomorrow: you’re
going to pay for jails; you’re going to pay for health care facilities; you’re going to pay for mental health
facilities; you’re going to pay for all kinds of poverty payments. So whether or not you touch it, whether or
not you see them and work with them now, you better realize that, directly or indirectly, they are going to
have an effect on your life.

BY ADAM HICKEY

He justified the cost, stating the level of services needed is much higher than that currently given. Nunez criticized proposed
legislation which he feels would remove the “safety net” of public assistance and force even more people into poverty. Blaming
President Reagan as the man responsible for the current state, he urged listeners to vote carefully in the coming years.
After 35 minutes, Nunez answered questions for an additional half hour. Nunez left listeners with a strong call to action:
“You’re going to have to fix it,” he said directly to students. “Without full commitment, the war is destined to
be lost... There is a moment of opportunity, but it’s now!”

Brandon Clarke

Write for News. Call Matt at 2148

New Age HAIR DESIGNERS

A full-service salon for men and women. Come in for any of our many services: cuts, perms, hair-coloring, manicures, pedicures.
Right now, Davidson students and faculty receive 10% off all retail items with a school I.D. We now carry a
new line of retail products by Abba. Also select from a line of Paul Mitchell, Matrix, Logic, Nexxus, Sebastian, and
Goldwell hairstyling products.

Southlake Shopping Center
Next to Harris Teeter
Cornelius, NC
892-3067
