THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 1995

At the end of last semester, there was a little controversy concerning a minority men’s lock-in, in which a member
of the Nation of Islam was invited to speak. Mr. Alan Staggers wrote an inflammatory article to The Davidsonian because
he felt that he was discriminated against when he was not allowed to hear the speaker. He also suggested that
the meeting was called to discuss hate because he believes the Nation practices such things. I want to make it
clear that these assumptions were totally unfounded and obviously written out of anger.

The meeting was held because some Davidson employees felt that there seemed to be a lack of unity and a
high level of apathy among Davidson minority males. It was invitation-only because the parties involved wanted to have a frank
discussion on what should be done to squelch apathy and disunity among the men. The meeting was held in the
BSC house, yet it was not a sanctioned BSC event and several BSC members were excluded because of this. Mr.
Staggers was not turned away because of his race. Rather, he was turned away because he was not invited, and
frankly, because the meeting did not concern him.

A member of the Nation of Islam was invited because his presence would assure that a large percentage of minority
men on campus would show. The only reason I was interested in going was because of Minister Lee. He spoke
for no more than twenty minutes, yet the meeting lasted almost three hours. So, needless to say, he was not
the reason for the meeting.

Mr. Staggers asked if such a group should have been invited to Davidson. To answer that, you have to know
its importance in the minority community. Regardless of how the Nation is viewed from the outside, it has a powerful
and positive force within the African-American community. It is the one organization that has been with us since before the
Civil Rights movement and is still strong today. Even though I do not know much about the Nation of Islam,
it does not seem to teach hate of any race. As the speaker emphasized that night, “The Nation of Islam
has no reason to hate white people.” What it does teach is self-love and the importance of self-knowledge. It is
a separatist group, which is why many people, white and African-Americans alike, question its true worth. It is important because
it is the one group that forces us to see ourselves in a positive and realistic light. It is the
one group that believes we have to do for ourselves what no one else is going to do for us.
It teaches the importance of hard work and the power of unity. Isn’t this what we all want to see
from the entire African-American population? Hard work and unity!

I, too, was skeptical of Minister Lee’s presence because I do not agree with everything the Nation does, but I
knew that the speaker was not called to discuss hate. Because of that lock-in, I now believe that minority men
are in a much better position to handle Davidson College life and make positive and progressive changes for themselves.

I want to finish by saying that Mr. Staggers grossly misrepresented the BSC in his article. As I stated before,
the lock-in was not a BSC event. The BSC has always welcomed the membership of any student of any race.
Its purpose has always been to create a positive environment for minorities and to create racial harmony among all of
Davidson’s students. Even though this policy has always been used, there are still not many Caucasian members of the BSC.
To go further, the BSC has always expressed the need to see more Davidson students at all of its events,
yet there seems to be an overall lack of interest on the part of most Davidson students. You are not
only allowed, but you are wanted at BSC functions!

Mr. Staggers, as for your statement: “But then I’m only a little ignorant white boy who doesn’t understand, right?” If
the content of your article is an indication, then that may not be far from the truth.

Cracked Cymbals by Michael A. Slayton

Change is good, even for Davidson

Life from page 8

and donated bone marrow to needy recipients. Considering the odds of finding a match on the national register, it is
hard to believe that our community could witness so many examples of the good that this program can accomplish. Bone
marrow transplants are the only effective long-term treatment for many severe illnesses such as leukemia, aplastic anemia, Hodgkin’s disease, and
some types of breast cancer. For patients unable to find a tissue match among family members, it is extremely difficult
to find a suitable unrelated volunteer donor. The chances of finding an unrelated donor with a complementary tissue type are
about 1 in 20,000. Each year these

1,500 volunteers from the Davidson community on the Registry. This week Project Life is hosting a very special visitor. Richard
Soucey was the recipient of a life-saving marrow transplant in 1993. As mentioned in the front page article, Megan Snyder,
‘95, was his donor. Project Life invites all students, faculty, and friends to hear about their moving experience. Richard will
be speaking at 7:00 PM on Thursday.Odds are improved by the work of our organization. In the past five years,
Project Life has placed over January 26th, in the Multi-Purpose room. Hearing their story will illustrate the significance of participating
in the upcoming Bone Marrow Drive on February 14th. Project Life addresses a significant medical need for seriously ill patients.
We hope that you will support our endeavors on Thursday, and at the drive on Valentine’s Day.

Offer more than a few beers and a

Peeples continued from page 7

lights display was a carefully planned collective effort supported in full by every member of the house. I was, however,
very disappointed by the reaction of almost every single member of Phi Delt whom I confronted—most of them responded by
saying, “Hey, I didn’t do it,” or “It wasn’t me, I promise,” or “It’s just a joke, lighten up.” The
fact is, it’s not a joke. There is a difference between calling a group of men hogs and making a
crude reference to a woman’s sexual organs. Referring to a woman as a “ho” or a “box” demeans and degrades
her sexuality. It reduces her entire body to a sexual entity alone. When you insult my sexuality, you insult my
worth as a person. Those who pleaded innocence might reconsider their silent role in the matter. Becoming a member of
a house does not mean that you automatically assume the stereotypical image of its members, but you must, however, take
responsibility for an action that reflects upon the whole house. If you don’t support your fraternity brothers’ actions, why not
take a stand in the house and voice your opposition? If you can’t do even this, could you at least
unplug the lights?

I don’t believe that Davidson should do away with the fraternity system. I do, however, believe that we live in
a society that exploits and demeans women’s sexuality in all areas—from advertising and the media to yes, even the fraternity
house. The women of Connor and the women of Davidson deserve far better than that, and I think it’s about
time that the men and women of this college community give some thought to the way we relate to each
other. Maybe I shouldn’t be so disturbed—after all, we trek down to Patterson Court every weekend for another party filled
with slurred conversations and casual sex. Quite a tragedy, in my opinion, for I think that men and women at
Davidson have far more to offer to one another than a few beers and a one-night stand.

Sincerely,
Rebekah Peeples, ’97

Objectivity in knowledge an eigen goal

Berkey continued from page 7

are of great import for the College’s advance into the front ranks of American liberal arts institutions. Nonetheless, it is
important to be precise about the reasons why the requirement should be dropped. SGA President Eric Rosenbach was quoted as
saying that “the idea of being taught Buddhist traditions by a Buddhist monk, for example, is just very exciting to
me.” You echo that sentiment in your editorial, suggesting that “it is a shame that we can’t have a Buddhist
teach courses in Zen or a Muslim teach courses in Islam.” Indeed it is. But what makes it a shame
is not that Buddhists should teach Buddhism, or Muslims teach Islam, but that anyone should be free to teach anything.
That principle, and that principle alone, is fully consonant with the liberal ideals which lie at the heart of the
education offered in institutions such as Davidson.

To be fair, neither Rosenbach nor The Davidsonian articulated the proposition that only Buddhists should teach Buddhism or Muslims Islam
(or, for that matter, Christians Christianity, or Marxists Marxism, or African-Americans African-American history, etc.). But that argument is often heard
these days in academic circles, and it would be easy to slip into the facile assumption that particular religions, cultures
and histories should only be taught by individuals rooted in and formed by them. Such an argument derives ultimately from
the conviction that it is not possible to have “objective” knowledge of anything. This is not the place to rehash
the debates over “deconstruction” and “post-modernism,” intellectual movements which have, in different ways, sharply limited our capacity to “know” things
for certain, except to note that most academics, myself included, would accept that proposition that objectivity in knowledge is impossible.
But it seems to me that one can at least strive for objectivity. Unless we are to condemn ourselves to
a world of permanent intellectual and cultural ghettoization, we must assume that humans can, in the struggle to know and
to learn, rise above the constriction of ideologies, theologies, political conviction and cultural bias. The effort to be objective, even
if doomed, provides the safest means to ensure that open-mindedness and tolerance and curiosity which, more than anything, constitute the
aims of liberal education.

Sincerely,
Jonathan P. Berkey
Department of History

The Alternative Gift Fair was a huge success

Gift continued from page 7

fair. Many student organizations gathered volunteers to work at the gift fairs. These groups include: Connor House, FIJI, Kappa Sigma,
Phi Delta Theta, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Warner Hall, the Women’s Issues Committee, Intervarsity Student Fellowship, Fellowship of Christian Athletes, Westminster,
and the Methodist Fellowship group. I extend a very sincere thank you to all students from these organizations that contributed
to the fair. And I would also like to thank Candice Worth for making a presentation at the Pines and
all the people in the Chaplain’s office for your outstanding help.

Sincerely,
Laura Jones
