THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1995

Union provides variety of activities.
By Katie MCALISTER
Staff Writer

The Class of 1999 has been a part of the Davidson community for six weeks. With the much-talked-about and much-anticipated First Night Down having just passed, what to do on the weekends is no longer a problem for most freshmen. Some will venture down to Patterson Court ... and never be heard from again. Yet others may question how long it will take until the novelty of the Court wears off.

First Night Down marked the dawn of a new era for freshmen. The nights spent crammed with fifteen others, aiming to throw a make-shift party; driving to “Movies at the Lake” to waste an evening; or even shifting uncomfortably from leg to leg at a hall pizza mixer, are now a thing of the past. The freshmen now have weekend upon weekend of free time without any mandatory organized fun! But what are those who aren’t interested in doing the Court thing every night to do?

This is what the Union Board is for: The Union Board recognized this problem last year and decided that there needed to be options for students who do not want to truck down to Patterson Court each weekend. The group presented their ideas to the Dean’s office and were able to agree on several programs to be hosted by the Union. A weekend series of events was established for this year’s programming.

Movies are now shown in the 900 Room every Friday night. Saturday night programs are hosted on a rotating schedule by four of the committees of the Union Board: the 900 Room Committee, Outpost Committee, IPC Committee, and F-Crew Committee all assume the responsibility for programming at least one Saturday night of each month. Upcoming programs include bands, comedians, and a night of aie. The programs thus far have had high attendance numbers.

The Union Board is not the only group that offers alternative weekend activities on campus. There are Davidson Outdoor weekend trips, service projects, weekend trips, as well as Reach-Out. If you are interested in getting in on the planning action for Union Board activities, then you can contact the chair of any committee that you are interested in!

Seven from page 10

plays in any Spielberg film). An adequate director tells the story economically, getting the point across without actually “signing” the work as a great director does. A horrible director takes a good script, attempts to display his or her own unique touch, but only ends up completely obscuring the story. The work is so abysmal that the average viewer finally throws his or her hands up in frustration, wishing that the “auteur” would get off his high horse and just tell us the damned story.

Unfortunately, David Fincher is a horrible director. He obscures wart ah A-—+ ¢ some SHEE aT ficult to see what’s going on. When Pitt and Freeman investigate the crime scenes, they never flip on the lights. They just lurk around with their flashlights on. Why? Because it’s spookier. Another pet peeve is the rain that seems to permeate the film. Constant rain has been done so often that it’s become a cliché that can be summarized in one easy equation: Rain = Corrupt City. It rains so much in this film that I half-expected Noah to come floating across the screen at some point.

Fincher was a music video director before he began “directing.” The MTV influence shows in his use of illogical cuts. Instead of speeding the film up, as Finchermight have intended, the editing only gives the viewer a headache. Now for the good news. As I said before, Andrew Kevin Walker, the screenwriter, used a standard form when writing the film. The details, however, are what make it work. Seven is a great film, there can be no doubt about that. The killer dispatches all of his victims in a manner reminiscent of the seven deadly sins. This leads to all sorts of original methods of murder, many of which I’m sure have never been seen before — so potential viewers with a weak stomach should avoid this film. Just as you wonder how the killer can outdo himself in the next murder, he surprises you. That’s all I’m going to say about the fiendishly clever final part of the film.

The actors are what help make the film work. Brad Pitt, donning a new hairdo, has left behind the mythic anguish of Legends of the Fall. He suffers in the film (at one point getting beat up so badly that his arm is broken) in a much more realistic fashion. Morgan Freeman lends a certain classy air to the proceedings — he’s a great actor. And the psychopath? I won’t tell you who he is. Once you find out, however, compare his role with another villainous turn he’s had recently. Upon comparing the two roles, you’ll see that the mystery man may just be Hollywood’s Next Great Villain.

It’s amazing how much a bad director can deflate a film. If you don’t believe me, then take a look at Seven. As it stands now, it’s a pretty good movie. In the hands of a better director, it could have been so much better. (Grade on the “Entertainment Weekly” Rip-Off Scale: B-)

The Davidsonian wants your support. Write for Arts & Living.

EXON EXPRESS SHOPPE
601 Griffith Street (I-77 exit 30)

DUNKIN’ DONUTS
Fresh 365 days a year

Bud 18-pack $9.99
Coke 2 Liters $.99
Cats 6-PACK CANS $1.79
valid thru 10-31-95
valid thru 10-31-95

Now hiring part-time
flexible hours/good pay

ON THE SCENE

Live Monday:
Frances Kofi, an amazing drummer from Ghana, performs 9:45 p.m.-midnight in the 900 Room.

Coffeehouse serves it up right 8:30 a.m.-11 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Jumpin’ Java Café keeps the pots going 8 p.m.-midnight at the Outpost.

Chinese Magic Review offers “precision and ease when balancing on top of chairs stacked 25 feet high” 8:15 p.m.-9:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Twenty-One Year Old Night gives a chance to try some balancing acts of your own 10:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Alcohol Awareness Week Study Break has some sober fun 8 p.m.-11:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Thursday

Fall Convocation brings tears to eyes 10:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

CROP Lunch breaks out the beans 11 a.m.-2 p.m. in the 900 Room.

The Blues: Dealing with Depression explains depression screening and hands out literature on this all too familiar topic 11 a.m.-2 p.m. in the Union Lobby.

Student Health Event sounds like fun. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. in the Wilson Room.

Blues Panel of student and faculty discuss their experiences, followed by Q&A 8 p.m.-11:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Friday

FALL BREAK begins whenever you feel like it.

The Honor Code Caper, a musical written by a Davidson alum, spoofs Davidson personalities 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. in the Black Box Theatre.

All Week

Studio Arts Professors’ Exhibition held in the VAC.

Judith O’Rourke Exhibition spices up the Union lobby.

Alcohol Awareness Week Videos make your study breaks more interesting in the Union Lobby, 12 p.m.-3 p.m.