RTS & LIVING
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1995

Movie Review

Get Shorty and a little Hollywood Magic, too

By EP ACLE
Movie Critic

Finally, after weeks of intense suffering, a good movie has come out. After painfully sitting through Assassins, then following that
up with the torture of The Scarlet Letter, I was beginning to wonder why I ever volunteered to become a
movie critic. Get Shorty reminds me why.

The plot of the film is fairly convoluted, because it is a tangle of different motives and subplots, therefore making
it comically confusing. Much has already been written about how this movie seems to be a Pulp Fiction rip-off. These
critics point to the seemingly inane conversations between the main characters, the sudden explosions of violence, and John Travolta playing
yet another hood (and shows us that his prior performance was no fluke). What many don’t realize, however, is that
Tarantino’s style borrows heavily from Elmore Leonard (who wrote Get Shorty in 1990, back when Tarantino was still in a
video store). The comparisons between the two films are deserved and carry added benefits — if people are driven to
see Get Shorty because of its similarity to Pulp Fiction, maybe some of them will read some of Elmore Leonard’s
other wacky novels.

Part of Get Shorty’s brilliance lies in its dismantling of Hollywood. The hoods in the film know how to operate
in this world of glitter and gloss because it’s not all that different from where they came. Various characters in
Hollywood, from Roger Corman to Dustin Hoffman (who is not to be confused, by the way, with Andy Roark), have
their parallels in the film. Even as it gently pokes fun at the industry, however, Get Shorty displays a true
affection for films (such as the scene where Chili watches an old film by himself).

Get Shorty isn’t a perfect film. Its greatest strength, the convoluted plot, is also its greatest weakness as it leaves
several subplots dangling in the end. Sometimes the characters are just a bit too goofy. As I left the theater,
however, these seemed like small complaints. For two hours I forgot all else, as lost in my theater as Chili
was in his. As I drove home I finally realized that, as the film suggests, Hollywood hasn’t quite lost all
of its magic just yet.

Grade: A-

Juggling, Joking, and Just Plain Funny

By Curisty SHI
Staff Writer

Italian cuisine takes on a new meaning after seeing the Fettucini Brothers. This juggling comic duo kept the 900 Room
alive with laughs Saturday night, flinging jokes into the audience as juggling clubs flew across the stage. For jugglers and
the coordination-impaired, this event was a special treat.

Although their jokes ran the gamut from Prozac to hillbillies, the Fettucini Brothers drew the most laughs with their subtle
(and often not-so-subtle) bathroom and body humor. Such comments as “No need to applaud, obviously” (to a silent crowd) and
“I’m sweating like a Kennedy on the stand,” appealed to even the most proper senses of humor. However, such comments
as “Save the schmeckel” and “Let’s get it on; no, let’s just juggle” displayed their true colors.

Also displaying his colors was junior Macon Stokes, who in a patriotic shirt bravely stood by and helped the jolly
jugglers to mount their unicycles (although the mounting of members of the audience was discussed). Several other students braved the
stage as volunteers and laughed as the audience laughed at them. Forcing ping pong balls from their mouths to act
as mallets, the Fettucini Brothers played “Mary Had a Little Lamb” on xylophones. This display of musical talent was fiery
fun in the 900 Room. The 900 Room audience ate up the Fettucini Brothers.Brothers funny as well as extremely impressive.
But the show-stealer was the juggling of flaming torches. “A couple of flaming heterosexuals,” Sean and Steve calmly tossed the
firesticks through the air, pausing to throw in their own rendition of Joan of Arc. Their scorching satire burned far
more dangerously than those fiery batons.

Who are the Fettucini Brothers? Besides being a comedy team not to be missed, Sean and Steve are Charlotteans who
discovered their talents nearly eight years ago. Both men were working in a Charlotte restaurant and discovered their common interest:
juggling. As they practiced together, the potential for a routine became apparent. The Fettucini Brothers came into existence and have
been seen on the Comedy Channel, as well as many college campuses in the southeast. Sean gave credit to Bill
Giduz, director for news and photography in College Relations (and editor of a juggling publication), for supporting the Fettucini Brothers
over the years. He did their first photoshoot; their common passion for juggling has resulted in a long-lasting friendship.

Twelfth Night begins new day for Shakespeare
By Court McBryde & Amy Rolfes
Guest Writers

A second row seat in Hodson Hall opened our eyes to the contemporary world of Shakespeare’s Twelfth Night. The French
Italian Riviera of the 1930s, which is quite a change from Shakespeare’s scripted Italy, was the setting for the love
struggles of an eclectic group of socialites. Immediately, the intentions of Director Alex Pinkston were revealed in the playbill: “As
Shakespeare consistently demonstrated, it is not enough simply to relocate stories, or to bring them in line with contemporary expectations.
It is also important to find a new context that works for all the qualities inherent in the text.” This
group of actors and actresses successfully achieved this goal. They proved that a 17th-century Renaissance drama can be translated into
a contemporary world, showing that Shakespeare transcends time. The comedy of the production exceeded our expectations.

I have heard from other playgoers that the danger of this production lied in the excising of lines from and
addition of lines to Shakespeare’s original script; however, we did not feel that this hindered the play in any manner.
The play opens with Countess Olivia (Carrie Van Deest) and Feste (Ben Summers) dancing a rather comical tango, setting the
precedent for the element of dance and music that pervaded the play. For example, whenever Maria and her entourage concocted
a deceitful plan they danced a jig. The comic elements of this play were definitely emphasized and sometimes taken to
an extreme, keeping in line with the Shakespearian tradition and style.

One of the funniest scenes was the Three Stooges-like act Toby Belch, Fabiano, and Sir Andrew Aguecheek performed while spying
on Malvolio. The actors of this scene were at their best in bringing the audience to roaring laughter. Once again
Ron Higdon pulled through in creating a stage with a triptych effect that was unusual, yet highly functional. It revealed
the high seas world of Orsino, Countess Olivia’s 12th Night Club and house. The night club doubled as the front
porch of Olivia’s house. And, of course, they did not forget to emphasize the sexual overtones which Shakespeare included in
the original text. Orsino was quite explicit in his interest towards Cesario and vice versa. Of course, none of the
men were afraid to thrust their pelvis a couple of times, usually in the direction of a young lady. As
always Feste, the comedian — or shall I say the fool — gets the last word. Shakespeare would have been
proud!
