THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1995

Nickel and dime worth some change
Huntersville entrepreneur invents new billiards board game for Christmas
By Adam HICKEY
Staff Writer

Coins, not billiards, are what a Huntersville loan officer-turned-entrepreneur is banking on to make his unique version of portable pool
a sure shot this gift-giving season. Played by ricocheting brass coins into slots on a 12” x 14” miniature pool
table, Nickel & Dime Pool has received positive print from such magazines as Billiards Digest, Pool and Billiard Magazine, and
Toy Business, in addition to being named a 1995 Toy of the Year Finalist by Family Fun magazine. All this
has happened before the toy has even been officially presented to the market, an event reserved for February’s International Toy
Fair in New York.

A. Cone, inventor of Nickel & Dime Pool and founder and president of Puffin Corporation, the company which makes the
game, worked in a brokerage firm and a bank before he realized that inventing was what he really wanted to
do. “You don’t have to pick your vocation for the next 60 years when you’re 19 years old,” he said.
He used to leave his job at First Union National Bank at 5 p.m., not to think of his work
until the next day. Not so anymore. “It’s my life,” he says of his fledgling corporation, which is giving the
big birds at Parker Brothers, Pressman, and other such toy mega-giants a run for their money in toy competitions.

No stranger to invention, Cone’s first foray into the game market came in 1983 when he introduced Play It Smart,
a trivia game, to the market. “I was intrigued by Trivial Pursuit,” he said, but after a while he found
its trivia to be “useless garbage.” Determined to “educate the world” on “life-changing facts,” the 28-year-old MBA from Chapel Hill
spent almost three years writing the questions for the game. When it was launched it earned a host of awards,
among them #1 Game of the Year 1994 from Fun and Games Magazine, and Top Ten Game from the Chicago
Tribune. “I thought I’d have another Trivial Pursuit ... I didn’t.” Sales of the game were modest, drawing a consistent
but meager salary for him and his wife, Suzanne, who both run the company out of their home.

So Cone began work on what was to become Nickel & Dime Pool. Eleven years in the making, a working
prototype was completed in 1994, and in February of this year the game hit the market, selling primarily through the
National Luggage Dealer’s Association, which links such chains as Charlotte-based Sharon Luggage and Gifts with similar stores across the nation.
Still a small company, Puffin Corporation has yet to become a household name. In an effort to build a strong
reputation in the game market, the Cones devote as much of their personal attention to the business as possible. Each
board is inspected before it is shipped, and to each customer who buys directly from the company a thank-you note
is mailed.

Cone, whose favorite board game growing up was Monopoly, is excited about the game’s success and is already planning variations
on the Nickel and Dime theme. Mary Skipper, who manages Davidson’s The Village Store gift shop, reports a positive customer
response to both games. “We’ve sold tons of [Play It Smart],” she said, and as for Nickel and Dime Pool,
“It sells very well.”

Cleanliness is next to ... your wallet!
Disgruntled students charged in inconsistent RLO apartment inspections
By JOANNA JOHNSON
Assistant News Editor

Dirty common areas cost seniors cleaning time and in one case $40 after RLO sent the Building Staff to the
Martin Court Apartments for their annual fall clean-up inspections. Flyers were sent to apartment residents two days before inspections which
were conducted right before Thanksgiving Break. The flyers detailed the areas which should be cleaned. In addition to unvacuumed carpets
and unswept floors, seniors were told that dirty showers, mirrors, sinks and countertopswould be reasons for failure. Students were also
expected to remove trash and upholstered furniture from the porches. Only common areas were subject to inspection. Residence Life hoped
that advanced notice and specific guidelines about the inspections would prevent seniors from failing the inspection. Still, seven apartments out
of eighty needed a second inspection and one even required a third visit from Building Services, which cost them a
$40 fine. The Housing Operations Coordinator of Residence Life, Debbie Young, felt that the inspections represented a “good system.” Residence
Life organized the inspections while Building Services employees examined the apartments for cleanliness. Young states they had “good cooperation from
the students” and that the advance notice helped students prepare for the examinations. Yet some seniors weren’t as positive about
RLO’s inspection efforts. One Martin Court resident complained about possible inconsistencies in the inspection procedures. Though his apartment was cited
for a dirty oven, stove, and shower, the Building Services inspector didn’t require a subsequent inspection. According to another resident,
her apartment needed another inspection for only a dirty shower. A dirty sink was the only condition, according to apartment
members, that cost them $40 after a second inspection. Residence Life employees feel that the inspections are necessary because Martin
Court Apartments are occupied in the summer months too, and some people move in only a couple of days after
seniors leave. Young wants students to do everything they can “to expedite housekeeping” because Building Services doesn’t have time to
“sandblast” apartments due to the short turnaround of occupants. Other dorms on campus are used in the summer, but Young
explains that Building Services are continually inspecting and cleaning common areas in the dorms. Still, some students question whether or
not the apartment inspections are too premature and maybe even too particular. Bill Gullan states, “I understand why they want
to conduct the inspections but it seems like an inspection this early in the year might be a little excessive.”
Young felt that the timing of the inspections was convenient for students who would “probably want to clean their apartments
anyway” before the holiday.

LOOKING FOR A JOB? Try Charlotte, NC, one of the country's hot spots rated as having the Nation's "#1 Pro-Business
attitude.” Get a free information packet by calling our automated information system at (704) 845-4636, by writing to The Charlotte
Chamber--P.O. Box 32785- Charlotte, NC 28232, or via internet, http://www.charweb.org/charlotte/chamber/index.html

Furthermore, she feels that Davidson’s inspections are more lenient than other schools statewide, and that because RLO has organized the
inspections for 5 years, the inspection forms have increasingly become more “user-friendly.” Residence Life plans to initiate another Martin Court
inspection this spring.

The Office of Admission is looking for tour guides over Christmas from December 15 to January 2. $5.25 an hour.
Call Andy Haile in the Office of Admission at -2186.

Want to be involved in the student voice on campus next semester? Call Joanna at -6831 to write for News.

The Union Cafe encourages all students who are interested in a job next semester to come by and fill out
an application.

Bryant: UNIVERSITY AND COLLEGE CAMPUSES through: “The Gift for Nostalgic Alumni” Prints for sale of Davidson College Campus. Size 18"
x 24" Bryant has also done about 100 different campuses. Black & White Print $32.00 Matted & Framed $132.00 Hand
Colored $42.00 Matted & Framed $142.00 Shipping and Handling $7.00 You can purchase them at the Davidson College Book Store
or you can order them from Nancy Williams Art For All Seasons (704) 896-5934
