RIS & LIVING MONDAY, April 24, 1995

Cat Grimmell’s play explores the horror and joy of women’s First Time sexual experiences

By Emily Simmons
Staff writer

Written, directed, and produced by Davidson students, The First Time by Davidson senior Cat Grimmell was an outstanding success. It captured the emotions of young women everywhere and brought them to life. A feeling of intimacy was shared as each young woman in the play related her stories about sex. Both painful and joyous, the emotions brought forward in the play were true to life and drew the audience in through the sensitive portrayals of the characters.

Just as most young women experience a first time, most of them also have the experience of sharing it with their friends, confidants, or whomever. This play reflected the experiences of every woman in the audience through its characters and their experiences. It also dealt with the pain that many women often associate with sex and with the joy that it can bring.

Centered around a “first-time party” given for a young woman by her college friends, the play moves through the stories of each of the women’s experiences with sex: being a virgin, having a first time, a second time, etc., and having the emotions and reactions concerning all of these experiences. As each woman told her story, a new issue about sexuality unfolded. The experiences of each woman were positive and negative, as any sexual experience can be. Mary, a character with less sexual experience than the others, brought up the issue of what happens when alcohol is involved in intimacy, as did many of the other characters. Charlette, a seemingly cynical and unaffected young woman, revealed that her first time had been a gang rape. These issues and others cast a shadow on the experience of Alex, the guest of honor, who had just had her first time the night before. Feeling guilty for having described her perfect first time, she did not know how to react. She felt guilty both for what had happened to her friends and for enjoying her experience. At this point in the play, a feeling of negativity toward men was highly apparent —

See First on page 13

Dancing in the daisies

By JAMES BERRY
Staff writer

What’s the most frustrating time of the year for the students of Davidson College? I’ll give you a hint. Imagine vibrant green beneath your feet, over your head, and everywhere in between. Squirrels attack one another in a season-induced passion to procreate. The sun returns after a four-month vacation. Why would this depress anyone? For every sunny day there exists a term paper, and nature exists to tempt busy students. It’s the picture of spring, but with summer still in the distant future, about the only thing we have to look forward to is free live music and unlimited access to those velcro-mitt-catching-things.

The music started with 900 Room veterans, the Arts Awareness Ensemble. Having visited Davidson before, they might have expected a small crowd, but nothing could have prepared them for the pathetic number that showed up at 3 p.m. on Friday to listen. At the show’s height, the attendance never rose above 10 people. Whether the low turnout was a result of dedicated students getting some extra work done before the weekend (an unlikely thought) or simply a mass refusal to party so early in the afternoon, the show went on in style. The songs were executed with a characteristic groove. The tight rhythm of the drums allowed the bass a certain freedom over which theGuitarist set his off-beat chords. Vocals were traded among the bassist and two keyboardists and were strong on all counts. The only gripe I had was one which encompasses all reggae music: there is a standard format to the music and rarely do the musicians stray from this format. Despite the lack of an audience, the band put on an active show and started the Frolics on the right foot (albeit unobserved).

The next to take the stage was Shannon Worrell, an exercise in minimalism. The three-piece was discrete but powerful. The drummer had only a snare, three cymbals, and a tambourine. I assume that I was oblivious to the small drum set only because it fit the music perfectly. The bassist looked...

See Frolic on page 11

---

Crossing the Line and Going New Directions in the Black Box

Student-directed and performed plays deserve praise

By GEORDIE SCHIMMEL, Staff Writer

A good play is difficult to praise. Applause wobbles unsteadily from playwright, the genius behind the shape of the words on the page, to performer, genius responsible for the shape of the words in the air, to director, genius accountable for everything in-between. In the case of Israel Horovitz’s one acts "Line" and "Stage Directions," performed Wednesday and Thursday nights in the Black Box theatre, applause quickly goes to its natural mate. Actors molded by the shaping hands of directors are everything.

In less accomplished hands, "Line" would have been an easy play to botch, with its wild crisscrossing of theme and wry commentary on American institutions and establishments. It was not botched, however, by the Davidson cast or by Director Mary-Elise Brumfield. Henry Ackerman, with marvelous wit, played the wonderfully witless Fleming, accompanied by Kay Walraven as profligate Molly and Jose Ruiz as the obsequious, soft-spined Arnall. Memorable were Jared Govan as Dolan and Ben Luckey as Stephen, the smart young Mozart enthusiast.

"Line" reaches its most disturbing when Stephen, very much a Stephen Daedalus rewritten for a later year, is encircled by the others waiting in a line for a baseball game. As they chant “Boom boom” with raised fists to Stephen curled on the ground, he writhes from the abuse. A very odd part but splendidly performed.

"Line" is an easy play to misperform, but "Stage Directions" is easier. With "Stage Directions," Horovitz strips away all convention of dialogue — or dialogue as most theatre-going audiences know it; characters speak only their stage directions. Because of the play’s novel form, the impact of the spoken line relies crucially on an actor’s understanding of it. Without this intimate understanding, the spoken lines dawdle in the mind, quickly expire, and foul up the stage. They did not do this.

In fact, Sarah Hankins, Ben Summers, and Annie Carr demonstrated an unusual amount of theatrical maturity for a first-year cast, rarely missing a beat in the often frenetic rhythm of the play. Kudos to a brilliant debut by Carr, the talented actress who brought life and vitality to Ruby’s suicide, and to Summers and Hankins as well, who played a distraught brother and sister with such emotional fervor that one wonders whether they are actually related.

Horovitz’s plays impart the immediate sensation of listening to a conversation, or better, overhearing a conversation not meant for other ears. This is the beauty and the brilliance of Horovitz’s work, a beauty easily lost if uncultivated or misunderstood. Both Josh Gaffga, directing "Stage Directions," and Mary-Elise Brumfield directing "Line" knew this as much as their well-chosen, remarkable casts knew this. Applause, then, to two of the most remarkable and insightful theatrical performances of the year.

---

CONCERT AT THE COMMONS

Pat McGee performs Thursday evening.

Rob Kosicki