THE DAVIDSONIAN BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

February 20, 1996

Between bites of chili at the Soda Shop, Pulitzer Prize-winning Washington Post columnist William Raspberry expounds on race relations, ethnic
slurs, and campus politics.

February 16

You’re here speaking about community as part of Solidarity Week. In a place as small and insulated as Davidson, building
community ought to be far easier than at, say, Ohio State. But we wouldn’t have you here if we didn’t
need to do something. What can we do?

I think everybody needs to do something, but I think it’s correct to say that getting something done should be
substantially easier at a place like Davidson. The odds that you will simply know, by sight, a fellow student from
a different part of campus makes it tougher to be too cold. In fact, it’s very interesting that the college
has a Solidarity Week. It’s a recognition that this is a process, that building a community is a process, not
a thing you do for one second and then you’ve got it. You have to keep doing it. I don’t
know the specifics of what Davidson’s about, but the idea of setting some time aside for the express purpose of
building community is a good thing. What is much more typical on campuses is that you’ve got a dozen or
more groups each committed to improving its position in the general scheme of things, often at the expense of other
groups in the same arena. So there’s a lot of giving and taking and pushing and shoving, and on many
of those campuses there’s hardly anybody who even gives a thought to the importance of knitting a campus community. So
it pleases me that you’re doing that here.

In a piece you wrote from February 1992, you said that “community was relatively easy when neighbors were homogenous.” At
a place like Davidson that’s so largely white—even with the help of support groups like the Black Student Coalition, and
professors like Nancy Fairley, who teaches Ethnic Studies—it is estimated that twice the number of minority students leave school for
good than do white students. Is there something other than sheer numbers that can make those students feel more comfortable?

I would love to know why those who leave, leave. I mean, it matters a great deal whether they leave
for academic reasons, or they think the place is too sleepy, or that they feel too isolated. It’s an interesting
thing that happens: sometimes a college that’s a distance from a big city, and it's isolated, like in the mountains,
or wherever, is for some kids a great place to go and “chill” for a while, to get away from
the pressures of life in the big city or a big suburb, and they take to it with great enthusiasm.
For other kids (and I think it tends to be true of black kids from big cities) there’s more pressure
at school than at home, at least a different kind of pressure. And they may feel so strongly that they’re
always on, they’re always performing, that the chance to get back home for a long weekend or for a break
is something that they dream about. I think two things: I think it’s important for everybody to learn to find
comfort in unaccustomed surroundings, but I also think it’s not a bad thing that people gravitate towards those places and
those conditions they find comfortable.

I remember once you quoted a student from Howard University saying that “At least here, if there’s a problem, you
don’t have to worry about it being a race issue.”

I remember that conversation. What she said is that you first do a self-analysis, you check yourself—“Am I coming on
too strong? Am I obnoxious?” You may at the end of this self-analysis decide that you’re okay and this guy’s
just a creep. But at least you go through it. But if the person who doesn’t like you is white,
you say he’s a racist. You don’t even get the value of the self-analysis.

I’m curious what you think about Rutgers President Francis Lawrence and the uproar over SAT qualifications. It was three words
that really threw people: “genetic hereditary background.”

That’s right. Powerful words. More powerful in light of Charles Murray’s recent book [The Bell Curve]. Probably more powerful still
because he [Lawrence] had recently been involved in a public forum in which he denounced the book as racist in
its tenor. It makes you wonder how he could have said what he said. But it’s easier to make some
guesses about that than it is to figure out what’s an appropriate response to it. When I talked about it,
I dredged up (from my memory) an old Ann Landers column in which the reader, a woman, said that her
husband had been caught in an act of unfaithfulness, and had to own up to it. He had apologized and
begged hispartner not to break up the marriage. The reader wanted Ann Landers to tell her if, given the infidelity,
she should leave him. Ann told her, “I can’t tell you. All I can tell you is you must ask
yourself, ‘Would you be happier with him or without him?’ Only you can answer that.” And that’s how I felt
about the students and faculty at Rutgers. If in fact the remark was the aberration, and the behavior, before and
after the remark, was as exemplary as it came across in the news reports, then it’s hard for me to
see how anybody would be better off without this guy. So then did the students who staged the sit-in during
the UMass basketball game do the right thing? Was that the appropriate response? If I’d been a student there, I
probably would have joined a spontaneous demonstration. I doubt that I would have applauded his ouster. It’s interesting: a lot
of the kids [the demonstrators] are part of a generation of students, saying sort of matter-of-factly, that essentially all whites
are racists—something that comes with the territory. There are some that keep it in check better than others do. I
don’t believe that, but if they do believe it, then you’re talking about substituting a guy who’s done, by their
accounts, all the right things. Just because of three words. Then replace him with a guy whose only virtue is
he is smart enough to avoid the words. But I think it’s one of those issues where the conclusions are
almost necessarily individual. I know wives who, one act of infidelity is enough. “You’ve broken the trust. It’s over. I
just can’t deal with this.” Then there are others who can forgive again and again. Some will do what I
tend to do, which is to go through the anger and the hurt, and then try to figure out which
way I’m going to be better off. What’s my set of options? The entire relationship, not thirty seconds of it,
but the whole relationship. If the whole relationship was shaky at best, then thirty seconds can blow it right out
of the water. If the entire relationship was solid and warm and all of those good things, then it’s hard
for me to see how a non-vicious lapse could undo everything.

What about the whole PC movement in general? Are we progressing or just learning a new language? I seldom see
a full-blown PC movement out there. A good deal depends on what you’re contrasting PC with. If you’re asserting that
you don’t want a campus where people are free to say all sorts of hateful things, I don’t know why
we bother calling it PC. If the debate is about what a university does with regard to hate speech, that’s
a very interesting philosophical issue. It’s an interesting debate, and it’s not helped by something labeling one of the sides:
PC, or whatever. You’re talking about really, as in many of these things, the conflict between values. How do you
find your way out when these values come into conflict? My preference is for an atmosphere that says something is
or is not forbidden. But not everything that is permissible ought to happen. Some things, some might say, without regard
to the question of whether they may or may not be said, is a different issue. “May not say it”
is fundamentally a legal issue that does not very much support stability. “Should not say it” is part of the
atmospherics, is part of the culture of the place. Just as in families, there can be strong disagreements without any
references to anybody’s ancestry or intelligence or anything else, they can establish a culture in the household where you can
discuss anything that happens with respect. That’s my ideal university.

WILLIAM RASPBERRY
Mr. Raspberry speaks in Love. Rob Kosicki Speaking for unity. William Raspberry has been writing columns for the Washington Post
since 1966. His views on crime, AIDS, the Nation of Islam, and violent rap lyrics garnered him a Pulitzer Prize
for commentary, journalism's most prestigious award, in 1994. Raspberry's social observations have earned him a reputation as a "conservative" among
Democratic black critics, because he does not necessarily elevate one side of an issue in order to criticize the other.
That style Raspberry has used in his almost 30 years of writing has served to steadily chip away at the
stereotype of the black community, traditionally thought of as unanimously liberal and Here at Davidson, on February 16, Raspberry spoke
about the importance of building community as part of our tenth annual Solidarity Week and in conjunction with the celebration
of Black History Month. In the tradition of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Raspberry called for unity of all people,
black and white.

See Berries on page 4

BY RANDY HARTWELL
