THE DAVIDSONIAN . MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1995

7

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors:
MANDY CURTIS
JOHN COPENHAVER

Arts & Living Editor:
KATHERINE HASH

Business Manager:
ROBERT RAMSAY

Asst. Arts & Living Editor:
TERESA WHITE

Operations Manager:
JOSHUA BUCHANAN

Associate Editors:
WILLIAM ROBERT
RUSS TARVER

Sports Editor:
MATT PITZER

Advertising Managers:
MEREDITH BENKE
ANDY BOSWELL

News Editor:
MATTHEW EIRICH

Photography Editor:
ROB KOSICKI

Circulation Manager:
TED PENICK

Assistant News Editor:
JOANNA JOHNSON

Asst. Photography Editor:
BRANDON CLARKE

Editorial Cartoonist:
CHRIS MOORE

Opinions Editor:
JEFF KENT

Copy Editor:
LAUREN FREEMAN

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

SGA PROPOSAL FOR ‘GE: REPLACE ALL DORM LOUNGE TV'S WITH COCK-FIGHTING PITS P 10.

LETTERS

Working on beauty

The Convoquestion

Historically, Fall Convocation falls on the Friday of Parents’ Weekend. This year, however, a decision was made to move the date up to this coming Friday, a date nowhere near Parents’ Weekend. The organizers of the event claim the move was made because the Trustees and other significant contributors to the college will be here this weekend, and it is important for them to be able to attend Convocation. By implication, then, it is not as important for our parents to be able to attend Convocation — in comparison to trustees and major contributors, at least. Also, placing Convocation on the Friday before Fall Break implies that it is not as important for students (not just seniors) to attend — in comparison to trustees and major contributors.

We object to this attitude. Granted, the trustees and other significant contributors to the college and the Campaign for Davidson should see the good which their money and support accomplishes. Granted, Davidson would not be able to do anything without the support of these fine alumni and benefactors. Granted, we should do all we can to improve relations with our supporters and try to include them in all important events. However, this is our school. At Convocation, we are lauded for our accomplishments. Our professors are awarded for what they have done for the college and for us. To deny parents the opportunity to witness the public recognition of their children is reprehensible. (Of course, parents are not forbidden to attend. They may, if they can, make an extra trip to the campus.)

Supposedly, scheduling Convocation on an inconvenient date will never be necessary again. Supposedly, the organizers of the event have realized their mistake. But what happens if, two or three years in the future, it once again becomes a necessity? Will the administration say, “It worked once; let’s do it again”? The only concrete deterrent to this happening again is student action. At Davidson, we often complain that students are apathetic, that we are too concerned with our futures to take a stand on anything campus-related, and that we easily capitulate to the whims of the Trustees and upper echelons of faculty and administration. We object to this attitude as well. The fact that members of the SGA conducted a senior survey about Convocation proves that we aren’t apathetic — we do care. Do not label us as ingrates. We have tremendous appreciation for those who made the Campaign for Davidson a huge success. We understand the added opportunities we and those who follow us will have because of the work of many wonderful people. These contributors and supporters will be thanked informally Wednesday, October 4, and formally on Thursday, October 5. Although no student representatives are invited to these events, we are glad that the contributors will be honored for their efforts.

Despite our appreciation, we challenge every student to think about this issue. Are we content with having decisions made without us, or do we want to begin demanding a voice in student-related school affairs? We are not calling for a boycott of Convocation — if you want to go, feel free. But realize that with your attendance you will be condoning attitudes that we, as the students of Davidson College, are attempting to dismantle.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors:

Since the topic of campus beautification arose in the SGA and consequently in The Davidsonian, we, the Campus Beautification Committee, have received some negative responses from students, faculty, and staff. We would like to comment on...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The campus and community perception as we perceive it and try to dispel the ideas that we feel are misconceptions. This committee does not feel that Davidson is ugly. We think it’s beautiful. Our purpose is to increase its beauty through mostly simple but necessary improvements. These include more ashtrays, trash cans, flowers. The painting of buildings, the elimination of confusing signs, and erosion control and land use in areas such as the cross country trail will also be a focus of our attention. It is our hope that these improvements and others will make Davidson an even better place to live. Also, we have perceived confusion over the placement of this issue as first in the town meeting series. Unfortunately, some took this to mean that the beauty of our campus is the foremost concern of the SGA and that we have nothing more important to act on. We apologize if this is the case. The SGA formed our committee first and wanted to use this forum as a springboard for it. This issue is one of many concerns we focus on each week and not necessarily the most important. Finally, the SGA town meetings are not meetings for the town of Davidson. The mayor will not be there, but heads of our faculty and staff departments will. It is an opportunity for you and your peers to voice your opinions on campus issues in a responsive and proactive atmosphere. It is a catalyst for action. As always, talk to us. Please come to the SGA Senate and town meetings on Tuesday at 9 p.m. and Thursday at 7 p.m., respectively, in the Union Conference Room. See you there!

Sincerely,
The SGA Campus and Beautification Committee

---

Please come to Convocation

To the editors:

I was pleased to see The Davidsonian’s article describing Fall Convocation on October 6. I am writing particularly to encourage the Class of 1996, as well as students from all classes, to attend this historic event before taking off for Fall Break. This traditional fall gathering offers the senior class a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to march in cap and gown with their faculty and trustees, to hear Dr. John Brademas speak, to see fellow students recognized for excellence, and yes, to help celebrate the success of the Campaign for Davidson. With so much happening on campus, it might be possible to overlook the significance of this convocation. As many know, for the past six years and for several years of preparation before that, the college has been engaged in a very ambitious fundraising effort. In his understated style, President John Kuykendall called it a “quiet resolve.” After years of hard work — much of it led by the president — and inspirational generosity from members of the college family all over the country, the campaign ended during the summer while most students, many faculty members — and even Dr. Kuykendall — were away. Naturally, the college community needed to be involved in a celebration of the campaign’s many contributions to the college and a thank you to the volunteers and donors who made these contributions possible. Fall Convocation, a traditional celebration of academic life, offered an ideal setting in which to present the fruits of the campaign to the Davidson community in a symbolic way. Thus, Convocation was scheduled to include this celebration and to coincide with the autumn trustee meeting. Many things we consider a natural part of Davidson — events and opportunities advertised on the flyers in halls of Chambers every day — are results of campaign gifts: “Come Hear the Henry Louis Smith Lecture; Apply for the McGraw Fellowship.”

See Meg on page 9

---

Thanks from the toga boys

To the editors,

On behalf of the brothers of Phi Delta Theta, I would like to thank the following organizations for their efforts towards Saturday’s Toga party: BSC, Connor, Rusk, Warner Hall, F-Crew, the College Union, RLO, Campus Safety, Amici’s, and Bealer Wholesale. Without their support, the event could not have taken place. Several individuals also deserve special thanks for their efforts: Dean Shandley, Sandra Rhyne, Kurt Holmes, Matt Hasuly, Henry, Bronc, and, of course, Otis Day & the Knights. Most importantly, I would like to thank Mark Wittschen, the man who made the whole night possible. Saturday night was Mark’s project, from the original idea to the final product. Finally, I would like to thank everyone who attended the concert, from students to alumni to townspeople to the professors on the Outpost porch. You made the night a success. Any omission in this list is due more to a fierce hangover than a lack of gratitude.

Thanks again,
Brian Cole '96 (on behalf of the Brothers of Phi Delta Theta)