THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1995

Jeni Hankins examines the plethora of tapestries at this week’s sale, trying to decide which pattern would best match her room’s decor.

Rob Kosick

Sandra from page 1

permission to set up a homepage of their own. With a little effort, these homepages can become combination autobiographies, photo galleries, and electronic hang-outs — frontier outposts on the Internet.

One of the first Davidson students to establish a homepage was Chris Edwards, an assistant at the Computing Services Center. A visitor to his page is greeted with a small black-and-white photo set against a black, decidedly un-Netscape-looking background. Scrolling down, one could choose to read his biography or jump to any one of several “favorite pages,” including such intriguing choices as a current weather forecast for the Charlotte area and the National Air and Space Museum’s homepage. Naturally, Davidson College’s own World Wide Web server occupies the top spot on the list.

If a student is not fortunate enough to work for the Computing Services Center, his next best bet for establishing a homepage is to convince one of Davidson’s academic departments to “loan” him some of their scarce disk space on the campus Web server. Physics majors are especially fortunate in this regard, since that department actively encourages its students to set up homepages. Within the Physics Department’s server, one can find homepages for some seven students and six graduates. Perusing them turns up such oddities as a full-screen Calvin and Hobbes cartoon, an art gallery, and even a radar image of Washington, D.C., ostensibly to let the aliens know where to land.

When will Davidson’s entire student body be able to construct homepages of their own? According to Ann Bower, the coordinator of the Academic Helpdesk services, not soon. Disk space on Davidson’s servers is extremely cramped, and several support issues need to be worked out before the Web can be opened to the masses. However, she does state, “Allowing all students to create homepages is our ultimate goal.” Within the next few years, Davidson students may be able to invade the World Wide Web en masse. Until then, there is enough Davidsoniana online at various sites across the world to keep even the most avid “Web-surfer” occupied.

Verdie from page 7

here in Mecklenburg County don’t get the recognition they deserve. It’s very disappointing to experience. I’ve been pushed a lot — people tell me no, you’re not one of those capable individuals. I prove to myself constantly that I am and that I can do just as well as anybody else. I’ve had a lot of turn-downs. That’s why I talk to the young people a lot — they give me the spirit to keep moving. If I don’t hang onto the spirit to keep moving I may as well go home and lock myself in and never come out.

So you write to get the recognition you deserve. What do you think about your effect on readers? What do you want them to get from it?

That there are people who can succeed when other people are saying no; a pick-me-up for some people; that coffee to give them that lift in the morning. A neighbor said, you got published in the Davidson Gazette and the Charlotte Post, congratulations — this woman I never thought would holler congratulations to me.

New Age HAIR DESIGNERS

A full service salon for menand women

Welcome back students! Come in for any of our many services: cuts ¢ perms ¢ hair-coloring * manicures * pedicures. Right now, Davidson students and faculty receive 10% off all retail items with a school I.D. We now carry a new line of retail products by Abba. Also select from a line of Paul Mitchell, Matrix, Logic, Nexxus, Sebastion, and Goldwell hairstyling products.

Southlake Shopping Center
Next to Harris Teeter
Cornelius, NC
892-3067

Album Review

The Verve strike a nerve with new album
By Curis MANN
Guest Writer

In 1993, England’s The Verve put out their first full-length album entitled *A Storm In Heaven*, which was immediately hailed as a psychedelic rock masterpiece. During 1994’s Lollapalooza they were the darlings of the second stage — so much so that Rolling Stone labeled them a “must-see band” and quipped, “before one of the members dies.” That was almost the case during that tour; indeed, The Verve live the rock and roll lifestyle to its often dangerous extremes and make no apologies for it.

Their second full-length, *A Northern Soul*, branches out in different directions from the hazy bliss of *Storm*. Richard Ashcroft lets his vocals burst to the forefront, pouring his heart and soul into it, much like Chris Robinson of the Black Crowes. He broods incessantly about relationship problems, saying that “I wanna die alone in bed” and claiming that “finding myself used to be hard, but now I see the light. If love is a drug, then I don’t need it.” All of this emotional outpouring reveals limitations in Ashcroft’s voice and lyrics, but the sincerity allows The Verve to somehow pull it off. Even the dramatic, string-laden ballad “History” strikes a chord without being overly schmaltzy. There is a probable hit-single (uh-oh, the cat’s out of the bag) in the acoustic-based “On Your Own.” Nick McCabe’s guitar work remains stellar throughout, maintaining *Storm*’s psychedelic feel and adding occasional explosiveness.

All in all, *A Northern Soul* does not match the rolling hills majesty and concept-album feel of *Storm*, but instead reaches out in new directions. Some flaws are exposed, but The Verve certainly surpasses most generic “alternative” rock, soaring above and beyond the muck through the “stormy clouds on the new horizon.” Definitely an enjoyable trip.

ON THE SCENE

Tonight
Stanley Haurwas, Professor at Duke University Divinity School, speaks on “Why Christians Should Be Pacifists: The Ethics of War and Peace” at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Jumpin’ Java Café is 8 p.m. - midnight at the Outpost.

Meridian Arts Ensemble creates a sound that’s “from Baroque to bebop, with a brilliant, clear euphony” in Hodson Hall at 8 p.m.

Tuesday
Coffeehouse offers fresh doughnuts and bagels in the 900 Room. 8:30-11 a.m.

Jumpin’ Java Café brews it up again 8 p.m.-midnight at the Outpost.

Wednesday
Thomas H. Murray, Professor at Case Western Reserve University Center for Biomedical Ethics in the School of Medicine, lectures on “Prenatal Testing and the Quest for the Perfect Child” at 7 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

Heavenly Creatures plays at 9:30 in the 900 Room.

Thursday
ROTC; Red Cross Blood Drive accepts donations from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the Union Lobby, TV Lounge, and Morrison Room.

Crop Lunch serves up beans from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Henri Obiang from Cameroon speaks in the 900 Room 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m.

Friday
Freshman First Night Down on Patterson Court. Come point and laugh.

Heavenly Creatures plays in the 900 Room. 8 p.m.

Saturday
Jumpin’ Java Café chills at the Outpost. 2 p.m.-6 p.m.

Vertical Horizon and Eddie From Ohio rock the 900 Room. 9:30-midnight.

Sunday
Discover Davidson Day, so be on good behavior.

UNC Acappella Choir sings on the Union Patio. 2 p.m.

Jumpin’ Java Café stirs it up at the Outpost. 8 p.m.-midnight.