**THE DAVIDSONIAN**

MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1995

A sadder side of sports

By Matt Pitzer
Sports Editor

Sports are based on dreams. Dreams of winning championships, dreams of breaking records, and dreams of reaching for and attaining that almighty high of winning. And although most athletes ultimately fail in one sense when they don’t win championships, sports are uplifting and energizing because we can watch these people in the pursuit of their ultimate dream.

Travis Roy, however, will never have that chance. The Boston University hockey player will never have an opportunity to take a perfect pass from a teammate, slap it past the opposing goalie, and dance and celebrate like there’s no tomorrow. Friday night, just 11 seconds into the first game of a college hockey career that was supposed to be filled with wonder, amazement, and joy, Roy missed a check on an opponent, slammed into the boards awkwardly, and crumpled to the ice—likely the last significant movement of his life.

In that split-second, when all that can go wrong does, Roy shattered a vertebra in his neck and injured his spinal cord. Over the weekend, he was in serious but stable condition in a Boston hospital, paralyzed from the neck down and given little, if any, chance to recover.

Stuff like this isn’t supposed to happen in sports. Sure, athletes get hurt. Anyone who has ever played any game has probably felt some pain in a knee or some other joint. Athletes do get injured. But they recover. They come back to play another day, to take another shot at the ultimate dream. The Travis Roys of the world have lost that chance forever. The football players who are hit slightly the wrong way, the boxers who are pummeled for one round too long, and all the athletes who attempt one too many comebacks on a bum knee have all lost their chances at glory forever.

So while we like to think the worst thing in the sports arena is our team losing in the final seconds, accidents such as Roy’s force us to realize, however painfully, that there are indeed more important things. Even when we consider the biggest chokes in sports, somebody else wins. Despite the fact that a ground ball rolls between a player’s legs to lose a game, we are forced to remember that somebody else still won. But who won when Travis Roy crashed into the boards?

Hockey player, Erin Smith. Rob Kosicki

Field hockey hitting stride after slow start

Wildcats gain confidence after win over Louisville

By John Rog
Staff Writer

The field hockey team is continuing its excellent play after a slow start to the season. Putting injuries and marginal play behind them, the team has gained confidence in its ability to win.

FIELD HOCKEY

“The morale of the team is really up from earlier in the season,” coach Betsy Pryor said. The new-look Wildcats had two games scheduled for last week, but because of flooding conditions, Sunday’s game against William & Mary was canceled. Unfortunately for Louisville, however, the field was ready on Monday and the Wildcats took a 4-0 win. That game started slowly for Davidson, but it did not take long for the team to start executing.

Meredith Rachinsky began the scoring by assisting Holly Kledis, who scored the first three goals for the Wildcats.The last goal was scored by Heather McAlpine off an assist from Nicole Ficeto on a direct corner. Of course, as it turned out, the first goal was enough, because the defense kept Louisville from mounting a challenge. “The defense kept plugging it up and did not allow Louisville many scoring opportunities,” Pryor said. The Wildcats outshot Louisville 38-8 and allowed only two shots on goal in the second half. The Wildcats host Indiana (Pa.) next Sunday in their last match before hosting the conference tournament next weekend.

Volleyball
By Jason McMULLAN
Staff Writer

Halfway through its conference season, Davidson is well on its way to satisfying its major goal: finishing fourth or fifth in the Southern Conference.

The Wildcats are currently sitting fifth in the league, ahead of last year’s seventh-place finish. “I feel really good about our progress this season,” coach Lisa Radford said. “The name of the game is learning, and we have learned from every experience. This is a young group that will just get better.”

Michele Augustin is tops in the conference in digs per game, and is showing no signs of slowing down. L. A. Bumgarner is “coming alive,” Radford said; the sophomore is third in the conference in aces, fourth in hitting percentage and leads the team in those categories and kills. Cindy Seegers leads the team in assists per game.

“This year is a really good year for Davidson volleyball,” Radford said. Belk Arena will host the Southern Conference tournament Nov. 17-19. This year’s tournament will help mark the 75th anniversary of the Southern Conference as well as the 100th anniversary of volleyball. “Our goal,” Radford said, “is to fill all of the red seats in the arena for the prime-time games,” or about 1000 seats.

The tournament is not the only thing Radford hopes will spark more interest in the sport. Plans are underway for a developmental youth league in December and January, as well as clinics for elementary school students. Those events will complement the Davidson summer camps.

This weekend offers some good chances to see the improved Wildcats. Friday, Davidson hosts Furman, second in the conference, at 7 p.m. After a day of rest, Georgia Southern comes to Belk Arena for a 2 p.m. game. “This is a pivotal match for us,” Radford said. “It will probably mean the difference between fourth and fifth place in the conference for us.”

“Fan support is crucial right now,” Radford added. She hopes that number will soon increase from that average of 120 fans per match.

Wineberg from page 14

“We may have had more shots, but we kept them from getting good shots. We made some unbelievable plays and had some great opportunities, but their defensive backs were really fast. Today was a moral victory for us.”

Plosser echoed many of the same feelings, saying, “Their backs were the best defenders we have seen all year. The second half we really stepped up, and you could see the improvements we have made in recent weeks. We created many scoring opportunities against a nationally-ranked team, and I feel really good about today.”

SGA DAY!
Thursday, October 26th
11-2 Union Patio Cookout
Free Lunch
Remarks by President Kill Gullan
9-5 Union Lobby SGA Video Showing
7 p.m. Union Conference Room
Town Meeting on Academic Affairs
DON'T MISS IT!