THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

13

The Naked Truth

Hypnotist mesmerizes audience

By Jay Hupson
Staff Writer

Last Saturday evening, amidst the music of The Twilight Zone and Andrew Lloyd Webber, Dr. Holiday, a world-renowned hypnotist, performed his tricks. In front of a packed 900 Room, Holiday proceeded to hypnotize 13 volunteers, making them perform antics that would normally get themselves shunned from all social circles.

According to Holiday, hypnosis is “a natural, relaxed, sleep-like state of mind induced by suggestion.” Everybody enters hypnosis when they fall asleep and what Holiday terms the alpha-state. Under hypnosis, people enter a state of complete relaxation and leave the world of stress and confusion. The victim of hypnosis is aware of what is happening in his/her immediate surroundings, but only pays attention to the hypnotist’s voice.

After Holiday explained the theory behind his methods, he promptly hypnotized 13 Davidson students. In this particular state, the volunteers were open to any kind of suggestion.

He convinced one student that she was a movie star and another that he was a world-class bodybuilder. At any round of applause, these two either started acting like a flamboyant Hollywood celebrity or flexing their muscles in Schwarzenegger fashion.

Holiday then queried the group to see if anyone wanted to demonstrate their singing abilities. One sang a selection from Andrew Lloyd Webber’s Evita. Another sang a tune switching from English to Japanese on command.

Although earlier in the performance Holiday claimed that he would not make anyone take off their clothes, he did not hesitate in making the male volunteers act like erotic dancers. He did stop the strip tease when a couple of the more overzealous dancers began to remove their pants.

At the end of the performance, Holiday planted two hypnotic suggestions in the minds of the victims in gratitude for being subjects. One suggestion was not to fall asleep behind the wheel of an automobile, and the other was to remember everything studied and remain calm in examination situations.

Whether or not these hypnotic suggestions work, the crowd enjoyed watching the volunteers perform under the power of Holiday.

MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 1996

Hypnotist Dr. Holiday
courtesy of Dr. Holiday's Management Office

Acoustic funk

By Will Foy
Staff Writer

From the first spirited strains of “Smilin’ Down” to the final chords of “Jump, Little Children,” Charleston, SC’s band Jump, Little Children had the crowd at Asheville’s club Be Here Now on their feet. Many of the crowd traveled from Columbia, Charleston, and parts in between to help the locals welcome the quintet.

To more properly acquaint you with the band, let me introduce them from stage right to left. Durham’s Jonathan Gray plays double bass and sings. Next to him, on acoustic and electric guitars, and lead vocals, stands Jay Clifford. To Clifford’s left, Matt Bivens performs melodica, harmonica, accordion, whistles, mandolin, and lead vocals with a rap-influenced delivery.

Seated on his left, the man on the cello, mandolin, electric guitar, and vocals is Ward Williams. Percussionist Evan Bivens completes Jump, Little Children on his small but mighty kit.

As you can probably discern, a large emphasis is placed on acoustic instruments. This stems from one of their principal influences — Irish folk music.

Throughout the performance, the artists danced, hopped, sang, played, and delivered a complete visual and audio experience, complete with Rocky Horror-esque crowd reactions, showing everyone’s involvement in the performance.

Jump is in the process of a record deal with several players in the mix. Until then, see them at Amos’s when they open for Jackopierce Feb. 2 or Jack Straw’s on the 9th.

LAKE NORMAN

No Joining Fee!

on student memberships through January 31

Keep your promises to yourself... BELONG.

You belong at the Lake Norman YMCA...

Privileges of membership include...

*Indoor & Outdoor Pool
*Unlimited Fitness Classes
*Basketball Gym for Free Play and Leagues
*Free Weights
*2 Resistance Weight Circuits
*Complete Cardio Center
*Free Fitness Orientation
*and much more.

YMCA Mission: To put Christian Principles into practice through programs that build healthy body, mind, and spirit for all.

892-9622
21300 Davidson St.
Cornelius, North Carolina