~ OPINIONS 10 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1996

When I tell people at Davidson that I am a feminist, I generally elicit a variety of confused and negative responses. When I was thinking of being a Women’s Studies major through the Center, people usually asked me why. One person said, “That is not a real major, and besides, what are all of you feminists complaining about anyway? Men and women are pretty much equal.” It is precisely this level of ignorance that infuriates me. I also often encounter comments like, “So, are you one of those angry feminists?” I then usually explain carefully that I am not “angry” in order to break down the stereotype of the militant, intimidating, extreme, radical feminist.

I have historically been very interested in making people understand the stigma attached to the word feminism. I have wanted people to know that there are many schools of feminism, each of them very different. I also did not want to put people on the defensive. I now have a new objective in that I simply want people to open their eyes—I am too irritated to want to take the time to constantly qualify my statements. Any person who has access to a newspaper, magazine, television, or radio has no business to snidely question the validity of feminist concerns. The level of oppression that women all over the world suffer is apparent to anyone who bothers to look.

For the sake of simplicity, I will expound upon the issue that provided the impetus for me to write this article. (It is incidentally one of the many issues that plague women today.) Did you know that women in Pakistan who are victims of rape are generally sent to jail? They are charged with zina, sex outside wedlock. In order for a woman to prove that she was raped she has to provide four “respectable” Muslim witnesses. She also has to prove that she has led a pure and proper life and that she is not a “habitual”—a person who is in the habit of having sex. The only way for her to prove her “cleanliness” is if two fingers cannot be inserted into her vagina with ease. This makes it almost impossible for a married woman to prove that she was raped. Approximately 75% of all women in Pakistan’s jails are there because they were rape victims. Once in custody, 72% of them are raped again by members of the police force.

In Pakistan, as well as in many other countries, rape is used as a weapon against fathers, husbands, and brothers. Recently a woman who was in her eighth month of pregnancy was gang-raped by 26 men and then paraded around the community naked. The men were trying to hurt her father’s pride. Shortly after, there were two almost identical rapes. In all three incidents, the women’s noses were also cut off in order to humiliate them further. The police did not investigate any of the cases.

Another shocking story is one of a grandmother who refused to rent out a room in her house to a policeman. She was gang-raped, throughout the night, by what she perceived to be about 50 policemen. In the morning she was dragged in the street, beaten with a leather whip, and then taken to a local police station where she was charged with zina. By the time she was finally incarcerated, she was covered in blood, unable to walk or speak, and her health was permanently damaged.

Violence against women is not something that is isolated to Pakistan. In many parts of the world genital mutilation is still pervasive, female babies are killed, wives are burnt, and girls are sold into prostitution, slavery, and child pornography. Even in the United States one in four women are sexually assaulted at least once in their lives. It is important for people, both men and women, to understand that many “women’s issues” are human rights issues and should be regarded as such. It is essential that the issues surrounding the feminist movement should not be trivialized. Each person who laughs at feminism is trivializing the agony of the pregnant woman or the grandmother in Pakistan, or perhaps even the agony of his/her own mother, sister, or grandmother.

Nina Blount

It’s just S.A.D.D.

I have diagnosed myself as a chronic sufferer of S.A.D.D. (Senior Attention Deficit Disorder). Stay with me. This is what class-time is like for me these days: “Now playing left field... NINA’S BRAIN.” Seriously. Are there any other seniors out there who look at their notes after class and see the date at the top and that’s it? At this jumping-off point in our lives, focus is key. I’ve been focusing on the Dukes of Hazard at 4 and 7 pm daily. I’ve been focusing on the fact that I’ve eaten spaghetti for the last six nights in a row and that my resume needs doctoring. I think about things like the Yankees, buying a new suit, my family, spring break, sophomore boys, getting a job, how much work I have, did soccer win, does Apartment F need all those lights, are people who hate Dave Matthews on the anti-bandwagon bandwagon, what are some new and exciting ways I can prepare spaghetti, etc. The problem is...that I think about these things IN CLASS. Probably not my best look. Especially since this is the first semester I’ve had all four of my classes be completely interesting and enjoyable. For some reason, I’ve finished my requirements, and now I have the attention span of a four-year-old child. It’s unfair. I take some solace in the fact that I have noticed this trend in some of my fellow seniors. Pretty much every time a senior gets called on in any of my classes, the teacher may as well have asked Rain Man to answer the question. They do the I-haven’t-done-the-reading dance, flipping through the book as if looking for a quote. Please. We’re fooling no one. I would attempt to form a support group for seniors who suffer from S.A.D.D., but the meetings would have to be about eight minutes long, because that’s about as long as I’d be able to pay attention. Maybe my colloquium could be split into fifteen sessions per week, each lasting eight minutes... but it’s not likely. Underclassmen, you may think you have F.A.D.D., Soph. A.D.D., or J.A.D.D., but those afflictions are just nothing in comparison. S.A.D.D. is a plague on the class of 1997. However, if we band together, we can make it. We can find a cure. I fear, though, that graduation may be the only real answer. It could be worse... like I say to freshmen: 1980 was a great year to be ONE YEAR OLD. Good grief. For now, be young, have fun, pay attention. Class may go slowly, but the year will fly. Don’t be afraid. If you don’t write, then no one will ever know what you are talking about. And neither will you.

Opinions, — 2148 Christina Thomas

What’s black, white, and all over Davidson? Campus Police pride themselves on the safety of this campus, but it is not safe I tell you! I am not one to be afraid—I am a medic who spends a large part of each weekend in the streets of Charlotte where crack deals go awry and you learn how to dodge bullets and spot a blade from a mile away... but I am rarely so terrified as I am when I walk around this campus at night. Let me tell you what happened to me. Was it to come down to this? I’ll do a lot for my Mastercard, but was I willing to fight a skunk for it? Damn skippy I was. It was a duel. I inched forward and inched backward. Time stopped and my will and the will of the skunk battled. I knew I wasn’t going to win the race because I had longer legs, and it must have told the skunk the same thing because after fifty meters he gave up chase. I slowed to a walk and kept on around the track, highly ticked that this skunk had totally ruined my running routine. Upon coming around the gym-side curve I realized that the skunk still wanted to do battle with me. My key ring (which had attached my license, ID, and Mastercards) was in the mouth of the skunk and he was trying his best to drag it away. Finally, I dropped my keys, and he stuck that tail up in the air like he was going to chase me again. I stood there, ready to run, and he, quick as a whip, turned and ran off towards the library. I sighed, and tried to finish my run, but every time I saw a shadow, my heart started racing again. That night at the track I saw two more skunks. They are all over the place. Two weeks ago I was running on the track late at night (I know I was kind of asking for it by doing so, but...) and was about to start around the far curve when I spotted a critter in the middle of the end field. The lighting there, as you probably know, is anything but adequate and the first thing that I thought was, “Damn, that’s a big squirrel!” I ran on around and came back up upon the curve again to see that the critter, now about fifteen feet from the edge of the track, had a bit of white on its head. A feeling of terror struck me when I realized that the “damn big squirrel” was a skunk and it was sticking that tail straight up in the air in its fighting stance. The next thing I knew, that skunk was chasing me around the track and I was sprinting like an Olympian. Rationale told me that it couldn’t win the race because I had longer legs, and it must have told the skunk the same thing because after fifty meters he gave up chase. I slowed to a walk and kept on around the track, highly ticked that this skunk had totally ruined my run. Finally, I dropped my keys, and he stuck that tail up in the air like he was going to chase me again. I stood there, ready to run, and he, quick as a whip, turned and ran off towards the library. I sighed, and tried to finish my run, but every time I saw a shadow, my heart started racing again. That night at the track I saw two more skunks. They are all over the place. Two weeks ago I was running on the track late at night (I know I was kind of asking for it by doing so, but...) and was about to start around the far curve when I spotted a critter in the middle of the end field. The lighting there, as you probably know, is anything but adequate and the first thing that I thought was, “Damn, that’s a big squirrel!” I ran on around and came back up upon the curve again to see that the critter, now about fifteen feet from the edge of the track, had a bit of white on its head. A feeling of terror struck me when I realized that the “damn big squirrel” was a skunk and it was sticking that tail straight up in the air in its fighting stance. The next thing I knew, that skunk was chasing me around the track and I was sprinting like an Olympian. Rationale told me that it couldn’t win the race because I had longer legs, and it must have told the skunk the same thing because after fifty meters he gave up chase. I slowed to a walk and kept on around the track, highly ticked that this skunk had totally ruined my run. Finally, I dropped my keys, and he stuck that tail up in the air like he was going to chase me again. I stood there, ready to run, and he, quick as a whip, turned and ran off towards the library. I sighed, and tried to finish my run, but every time I saw a shadow, my heart started racing again. That night at the track I saw two more skunks. They are all over the place. Two weeks ago I was running on the track late at night (I know I was kind of asking for it by doing so, but...) and was about to start around the far curve when I spotted a critter in the middle of the end field. The lighting there, as you probably know, is anything but adequate and the first thing that I thought was, “Damn, that’s a big squirrel!” I ran on around and came back up upon the curve again to see that the critter, now about fifteen feet from the edge of the track, had a bit of white on its head. A feeling of terror struck me when I realized that the “damn big squirrel” was a skunk and it was sticking that tail straight up in the air in its fighting stance. The next thing I knew, that skunk was chasing me around the track and I was sprinting like an Olympian. Rationale told me that it couldn’t win the race because I had longer legs, and it must have told the skunk the same thing because after fifty meters he gave up chase. I slowed to a walk and kept on around the track, highly ticked that this skunk had totally ruined my run. Finally, I dropped my keys, and he stuck that tail up in the air like he was going to chase me again. I stood there, ready to run, and he, quick as a whip, turned and ran off towards the library. I sighed, and tried to finish my run, but every time I saw a shadow, my heart started racing again. That night at the track I saw two more skunks. They are all over the place. Two weeks ago I was running on the track late at night (I know I was kind of asking for it by doing so, but...) and was about to start around the far curve when I spotted a critter in the middle of the end field. The lighting there, as you probably know, is anything but adequate and the first thing that I thought was, “Damn, that’s a big squirrel!” I ran on around and came back up upon the curve again to see that the critter, now about fifteen feet from the edge of the track, had a bit of white on its head. A feeling of terror struck me when I realized that the “damn big squirrel” was a skunk and it was sticking that tail straight up in the air in its fighting stance. The next thing I knew, that skunk was chasing me around the track and I was sprinting like an Olympian. Rationale told me that it couldn’t win the race because I had longer legs, and it must have told the skunk the same thing because after fifty meters he gave up chase. I slowed to a walk and kept on around the track, highly ticked that this skunk had totally ruined my run. Finally, I dropped my keys, and he stuck that tail up in the air like he was going to chase me again. I stood there, ready to run, and he, quick as a whip, turned and ran off towards the library. I sighed, and tried to finish my run, but every time I saw a shadow, my heart started racing again. That night at the track I saw two more skunks. They are all over the place. Two weeks ago I was running on the track late at night (I know I was kind of asking for it by doing so, but...) and was about to start around the far curve when I spotted a critter in the middle of the end field. The lighting there, as you probably know, is anything but adequate and the first thing that I thought was, “Damn, that’s a big squirrel!” I ran on around and came back up upon the curve again to see that the critter, now about fifteen feet from the edge of the track, had a bit of white on its head. A feeling of terror struck me when I realized that the “damn big squirrel” was a skunk and it was sticking that tail straight up in the air in its fighting stance. The next thing I knew, that skunk was chasing me around the track and I was sprinting like an Olympian. Rationale told me that it couldn’t win the race because I had longer legs, and it must have told the skunk the same thing because after fifty meters he gave up chase. I slowed to a walk and kept on around the track, highly ticked that this skunk had totally ruined my run. Finally, I dropped my keys, and he stuck that tail up in the air like he was going to chase me again. I stood there, ready to run, and he, quick as a whip, turned and ran off towards the library. I sighed, and tried to finish my run, but every time I saw a shadow, my heart started racing again. That night at the track I saw two more skunks. They are all over the place. Two weeks ago I was running on the track late at night (I know I was kind of asking for it by doing so, but...) and was about to start around the far curve when I spotted a critter in the middle of the end field. The lighting there, as you probably know, is anything but adequate and the first thing that I thought was, “Damn, that’s a big squirrel!” I ran on around and came back up upon the curve again to see that the critter, now about fifteen feet from the edge of the track, had a bit of white on its head. A feeling of terror struck me when I realized that the “damn big squirrel” was a skunk and it was sticking that tail straight up in the air in its fighting stance. The next thing I knew, that skunk was chasing me around the track and I was sprinting like an Olympian. Rationale told me that it couldn’t win the race because I had longer legs, and it must have told the skunk the same thing because after fifty meters he gave up chase. I slowed to a walk and kept on around the track, highly ticked that this skunk had totally ruined my run. Finally, I dropped my keys, and he stuck that tail up in the air like he was going to chase me again. I stood there, ready to run, and he, quick as a whip, turned and ran off towards the library. I sighed, and tried to finish my run, but every time I saw a shadow, my heart started racing again. That night at the track I saw two more skunks. They are all over the place. Two weeks ago I was running on the track late at night (I know I was kind of asking for it by doing so, but...) and was about to start around the far curve when I spotted a critter in the middle of the end field. The lighting there, as you probably know, is anything but adequate and the first thing that I thought was, “Damn, that’s a big squirrel!” I ran on around and came back up upon the curve again to see that the critter, now about fifteen feet from the edge of the track, had a bit of white on its head. A feeling of terror struck me when I realized that the “damn big squirrel” was a skunk and it was sticking that tail straight up in the air in its fighting stance. The next thing I knew, that skunk was chasing me around the track and I was sprinting like an Olympian. Rationale told me that it couldn’t win the race because I had longer legs, and it must have told the skunk the same thing because after fifty meters he gave up chase. I slowed to a walk and kept on around the track, highly ticked that this skunk had totally ruined my run. Finally, I dropped my keys, and he stuck that tail up in the air like he was going to chase me again. I stood there, ready to run, and he, quick as a whip, turned and ran off towards the library. I sighed, and tried to finish my run, but every time I saw a shadow, my heart started racing again. That night at the track I saw two more skunks. They are all over the place. Two weeks ago I was running on the track late at night (I know I was kind of asking for it by doing so, but...) and was about to start around the far curve when I spotted a critter in the middle of the end field. The lighting there, as you probably know, is anything but adequate and the first thing that I thought was, “Damn, that’s a big squirrel!” I ran on around and came back up upon the curve again to see that the critter, now about fifteen feet from the edge of the track, had a bit of white on its head. A feeling of terror struck me when I realized that the “damn big squirrel” was a skunk and it was sticking that tail straight up in the air in its fighting stance. The next thing I knew, that skunk was chasing me around the track and I was sprinting like an Olympian. Rationale told me that it couldn’t win the race because I had longer legs, and it must have told the skunk the same thing because after fifty meters he gave up chase. I slowed to a walk and kept on around the track, highly ticked that this skunk had totally ruined my run. Finally, I dropped my keys, and he stuck that tail up in the air like he was going to chase me again. I stood there, ready to run, and he, quick as a whip, turned and ran off towards the library. I sighed, and tried to finish my run, but every time I saw a shadow, my heart started racing again. That night at the track I saw two more skunks. They are all over the place. Two weeks ago I was running on the track late at night (I know I was kind of asking for it by doing so, but...) and was about to start around the far curve when I spotted a critter in the middle of the end field. The lighting there, as you probably know, is anything but adequate and the first thing that I thought was, “Damn, that’s a big squirrel!” I ran on around and came back up upon the curve again to see that the critter, now about fifteen feet from the edge of the track, had a bit of white on its head. A feeling of terror struck me when I realized that the “damn big squirrel” was a skunk and it was sticking that tail straight up in the air in its fighting stance. The next thing I knew, that skunk was chasing me around the track and I was sprinting like an Olympian. Rationale told me that it couldn’t win the race because I had longer legs, and it must have told the skunk the same thing because after fifty meters he gave up chase. I slowed to a walk and kept on around the track, highly ticked that this skunk had totally ruined my run. Finally, I dropped my keys, and he stuck that tail up in the air like he was going to chase me again. I stood there, ready to run, and he, quick as a whip, turned and ran off towards the library. I sighed, and tried to finish my run, but every time I saw a shadow, my heart started racing again. That night at the track I saw two more skunks. They are all over the place. Two weeks ago I was running on the track late at night (I know I was kind of asking for it by doing so, but...) and was about to start around the far curve when I spotted a critter in the middle of the end field. The lighting there, as you probably know, is anything but adequate and the first thing that I thought was, “Damn, that’s a big squirrel!” I ran on around and came back up upon the curve again to see that the critter, now about fifteen feet from the edge of the track, had a bit of white on its head. A feeling of terror struck me when I realized that the “damn big squirrel” was a skunk and it was sticking that tail straight up in the air in its fighting stance. The next thing I knew, that skunk was chasing me around the track and I was sprinting like an Olympian. Rationale told me that it couldn’t win the race because I had longer legs, and it must have told the skunk the same thing because after fifty meters he gave up chase. I slowed to a walk and kept on around the track, highly ticked that this skunk had totally ruined my run. Finally, I dropped my keys, and he stuck that tail up in the air like he was going to chase me again. I stood there, ready to run, and he, quick as a whip,