ALENDA LU A.).hUUYB ad OR:-TA: LIB‘ER TAS

VOLUME LXXXVII MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1996 NUMBER 18

Trustees confirm ties with church
Resolution is first put forth by the Ad Hoc Committee on Church Relations
By Mary Care JALONICK Executive Editor

In their first step toward addressing the monumental issue of church relatedness, the trustees confirmed Davidson’s ties with the Presbyterian Church, USA, Friday. The resolution was put forth by the Ad Hoc Committee on Church Relations, headed by Trustee Ben Barker of Chapel Hill. The trustees unanimously accepted the proposal.

While Davidson does not have a formal covenant with the Presbyterian Church, this resolution marks the beginning of a series of proposals that will officially establish ties between the two. However, in comparison to other Presbyterian colleges in the area, says President John Kuykendall, Davidson is “moving with less speed towards establishing a covenant.”

Barker will not comment on other church-related issues that the committee discussed, but says that the issues of faculty, trustee, and presidential religion will be presented to the committee at a later date. The next meeting is scheduled for April 19.

“The trustees are taking [these matters] with all seriousness, and we are making decisions in the appropriate time,” says Kuykendall.

Search begins for president
Faculty and students to assist trustees
By ADAM HICKEY Staff Writer

The Board of Trustees will have the final say on who is to be the next President of Davidson, but it is also seeking guidance from numerous sources in making its decision. Following the methods they used in 1983 during the last Presidential search, the Trustees have commissioned the help of the Academic Search Consultation Service (A.S.C.S.) and will work with both faculty and student advisory committees.

The A.S.C.S. is a non-profit organization which helps colleges and universities find presidents to fit their needs. Christine Young, a former teacher, dean, provost, and acting-president, and Dr. John Chandler, former President of Williams College, are the representatives who will lead the pre-search study.

“We are here as teachers, coaches, and presidents, not as people who ‘do’ presidential searches,” said Young in an open forum held in Chambers Gallery last Wednesday. The duo arrived on campus last Tuesday, and have spent most of their time meeting with small groups of Davidson students and faculty to get a feel for what the campus wants in a new president.

The forum held Wednesday was attended by roughly 20 faculty, all of whom had definite ideas of what the next president should see.

Search on page 3

“Davidson is not going to walk away from our ties,” says Barker, “We intend to strengthen them.” Kuykendall hopes that by strengthening Davidson’s ties with the church “we can find additional ways to perform service and support to one another.”

BREAKING NEW GROUND: Josh Glazer
“Let’s break ground!” yelled Habitat for Humanity Construction Director Sophomore Ben Kinnaman. At that, Davidson President John Kuykendall, Danny Jetton, Etheleen Jetton, and Kinnaman simultaneously pushed their shovels into the earth as Jetton children Danny...Junior, Joey, and Kristopher look on. This patch of land will eventually hold a home for the Jettons, built by the hands of Davidson students as a part of the college’s first Habitat for Humanity project.

By Beth Bacon
Staff Writer

Psychology professor Cole Barton owes his successful and happy marriage to his PiKA brothers at the University of Utah. During the college days of yore, Barton was “fixed up” on a blind date by his brothers. When the day of the big date arrived, Barton realized that he had no clean shirt. (“He was the kind of guy who hated to go to the laundromat,” so to lessen the number of times he had to frequent the joint, he possessed 75 pairs of underwear and always requested “heavy starch on button-down shirts” so that he could wear them three times: “once by themselves, once under a coat, and once with a sweater.”) Once again, brothers to the rescue. Barton did not go shirtless. The date came and went, and Barton found himself “very smitten.” So “smitten,” in fact, that he found himself wining and dining her for “the next 10 nights straight.” When he realized he had blown his entire savings for the semester, she treated him to “cheeseburgers in the Union” for a couple of weeks. Apparently, she was “pretty dazzled,” Barton says. It was “clear early” that this relationship had potential. Barton realized, “maybe this relationship is going to work” when he took her to the movies for their second date. She wore a new pair of white pants, and when she got out of the car her pants were covered with oil that had dripped from the dashboard. She still wanted to go out with him, despite the fact that her new white pants were now brown. He knew there was potential for a serious commitment. Barton says she is “clearly the best thing that’s ever happened to [me].” They have been married for 28 years.

Love sweet love on page 5

Valentine’s Day Murphy Starts as Athletic Director

By Carlo Reynolds
Staff Writer

Jim Murphy ’78 moved officially into his new office and his new job as Davidson Athletic Director on Wednesday. Murphy formerly headed the sports program at Georgia Tech. Though Davidson is smaller, has less national sports coverage, and is in a much less commercial environment than Tech (located in downtown Atlanta), he said the two schools’ ADs must address many of the same issues. “The magnitude of the dollars changes, but the issues pretty much see-”

Welcome on page 15

inside THIS WEEK

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

Zero Tolerance
North Carolina isn’t putting up with excessive drinking any longer.
NEWS 5

Argh! Valentine’s Day
To love, love, love — chocolate?
OPINIONS 8

Going clubbing? Check out our handy week by week guide.
ARTS & LIVING 12

Money, Money, Money!
Athletic Department will hold giveaway contest.
SPORTS