MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1996 — The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
JILL WILLIAMS

Business Manager
MARY CLARE JALONICK

Sports Editors
WILL BRADSHAW
TERESA WHITE

News Editors
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
BEN DeLISA

Copy Editors
CARRIE BLACKBURN
NINA BLOUNT
CLAY LENHART
KRISTEN RICHARDSON
DANIEL MOTZ
BRAD CHASE

Arts & Living Editor
GREG GARRISON

Associate Arts & Living Editor
CAROLINE BYNUM

Advertising Managers
MICHAEL KRUSE
BETH BACON
MEREDITH LUCIUS

Photo Editor
RANDY HARTWELL

Circulation Manager
McNEIL CARSWELL

Opinions Editors
JILL WILLIAMS
ERIC PENDERGRASS

Web Page Managers
SUSAN RUGGIERO

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Decreasing Interest

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at: http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Finally got a piece of the pie?

“Feminism” is a hard word to define. At Davidson, we don’t really define it at all. Ask many Davidson students, and they will tell you that they don’t care or everyone’s overreacting or I’m sick of it or it doesn’t really apply to me. Ask some students about different types of feminism, and they will claim that it is all the same, or that it is all about equal pay or equal grading, and don’t Davidson women get that anyway?

Yes, women do get an equal share of the Davidson pie, and yes, rarely does one hear of a sexist professor, and yes, women do lead campus organizations. But yes, there are “girls” here who act stupid to get their way on the court and “guys” who love that. There are people here who believe that treating women with respect means putting them on a pedestal and letting the men do the dirty work. And there are people here who will read that sentence and exaggerate it to mean that a man should never open a door for a woman and that all petty chivalry is a “rape” of the female psyche.

At Davidson, females have both triumphed and failed in their struggle against chauvinism and the patriarchal tradition. The days of the “old boy” system are quickly giving way to the equal and understanding treatment of women. There will always be setbacks, misunderstandings, and resistance to change, but what we should unconditionally expect — what we should hope for — at a college like Davidson is a willingness of students and faculty alike to put their egos and assumptions aside and open their minds to learning about the other gender. It is easier to hold onto previous conceptions than to examine them, and maybe relinquish them. In truth, it is lazy ignorance that should be feared, not incapacity to learn, and continuing education which is most important, not fiery accusations of ignorance or stagnant tradition.

Give marrow, or money, or both.

This week Political Science Professor Dr. Susan Roberts and her husband, Development Director Kevin McCarthy, spoke about their summer. Their son Cormac gave his bone marrow to his little brother Jack and saved his life. The two boys spoke as well, Cormac eloquent for his age and Jack typical for his — running through the audience, distracted, and reveling in the attention. Their parents watched on with teary eyes as everyone in the crowded 900 Room pondered what would have happened if Jack had not found a donor.

Senior Mary Dowd also spoke, through tears, of her experience as a donor last spring. She saved the life of a small boy. The chances that a person’s bone marrow will have a perfect match are very slim. Because of this, it is very important that, given this opportunity, everyone at Davidson get typed. The process is harmless, but it is potentially harmful to others to neglect it. Because of Davidson’s extensive Bone Marrow drive (and the persistence of founders David and Scottie Lindsay) up to three lives have been saved. Almost every semester a Davidson student shows up on the register as a potential match. This is amazing and most likely unprecedented by a college.

However, bone marrow typing is not free. Each one is $60. Project Life needs to raise this money, and they have not received the funding that they have in previous years. So, buy a t-shirt, buy a donut (they will be on sale soon) or just give a donation. Above all, get typed if you have not already — the drive (it’s free then) will take place in three weeks. We are saving lives, Davidson, and it is so easy to do!

All apologies

We would like to apologize for our neglect to credit many of the photos last week. It was a careless oversight, and we are deservedly embarrassed. Although Photo Editor Ben DeLisa has asked us not to try to list the pictures and the photographers we stupidly ignored, we would like to thank Ben, Bill Giduz, and all of the photographers who have contributed to The Davidsonian this year. We appreciate their sacrifice of time in both taking and developing, their consistent production of creative and quality pictures, and their part in making The Davidsonian a whole publication.

To the Editors:

I have been reading the regular series on “women’s issues” in The Davidsonian with steadily decreasing interest. Each week I see articles with grandiose schemes to delve into the very serious matter of women’s issues. What I find in their content, however, is a contest of name-calling.and mud-slinging. I’m not an expert on Pakistan, nor am I an expert on issues facing women, but I do know this... if what feminists in Pakistan are “struggling against” are perfect gentlemen like Fahd Gul and Yasir Ishaq, they should spend more time counting their blessings. If Fahd Gul and Yasir Ishaq choose to surrender their seats on a bus out of respect for women, we have no reason to question that motive. To the charge of giving up a seat for a lady, I plead guilty myself. Indeed, one need not go to Pakistan to witness the crime. In the far-off and strange land of Chicago, I have taken part in the barbaric ritual. Strangely, I do not remember one woman who took it as an implication of her weakness of gender. I wonder if African Americans felt blessed by our recognition of the great strength of their race when they were forced to stand in our stead. Something is wrong here. Let us beat this dead horse no longer. Surely there are more pressing issues facing women than seating preferences, renegade prison officials, and Fahd Gul. The discussion on women’s issues need not, and should not be “For the Last Time.” What does need to be for the last time is this perplexing infatuation certain people have with the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. One might ask, why talk about the United States? Why not talk about Pakistan? My request comes not from some covert agenda to glorify Islam and Pakistan, but a principle closer to home. Why do you look at the speck in your brother’s eye, with never a thought for the plank in your own?... First take the plank out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother’s.” (Luke 6:41, 42).

Brian Yeiser Boyd '97

Independent Homecoming

To the Editors:

It troubled me when I read Alex Obregon’s Opinions Article in the October 7th Davidsonian. Alex was discouraged and disillusioned by the Davidson Homecoming experience. She felt that students should not be excluded from activities, namely fraternity dances, from an event that stresses Davidson as our home. Alex spent the evening walking around the court with her “hometown honey” wondering where she was allowed. I agree with Alex. It is unfortunate that anyone felt excluded by the fraternities on homecoming night, but fraternities are exclusive organizations. On Homecoming, by inviting some men, they exclude others. As Alex illustrated, it is impossible for women to become involved unless they are invited by one of these select few. There was an alternative, however. The Independent Senators and the Black Student Coalition sponsored a Homecoming dance that Saturday night. We invited everyone to this dance — both male and female — from every class. We put up fliers on all upperclassman halls and apartments and even placed individual invitations under every freshman door to make sure people were aware. And people came! Members of every class, from seniors to freshmen, partied down in semiformal attire to a great D.J. with their fellow Davidsonians from ten to two. I thank the BSC and all those who attended for making it such a success. Alex, it is indeed unfortunate that you, or any other student, felt alienated from your Davidson home on homecoming night. To avoid this, the Independents provided an event for all students and will continue to do so in the future. I apologize if we somehow failed to inform you of the event. An atmosphere and community where students feel welcome is our highest priority. Alex, you will always have a home with the Independents.

Matthew Hobbie '97
Head Independent Senator

Soccer Strikes Back

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editors:

Who is Daniel Motz? Who the hell is he? And why isn’t he out playing soccer? He must be one incredible soccer player to have so astutely figured out the problems of this year’s team. At least a better player than he is a journalist. Does he not know that when he makes statements he should include his sources? Does he not know that when he insults his own school’s team, he should try to logically justify himself? It makes one wonder how good a journalist he actually is when the people he quoted deny having spoken to him, and Coach Slagle admits having received leading questions from Motz about his “embarrassing seniors,” questions which he refused to answer. I know of Motz’s amazing ability and knowledge of the sport of soccer, but to the test of his soon-to-be adoring fans, he is still an unknown. I would like to personally apologize to Daniel Motz for being an embarrassment to my school, God, and Country, and thank him for his insight this year. If we support him publicly, and ask very nicely, perhaps Daniel will consent to grace Richardson field with his abilities next fall. I would also, as the most apathetic, underachieving non-leader of the men’s soccer team, like to wish him good luck in the MLS.

Isaac Stewart ‘97

Davidsonian t-shirts for $10. Wow! What a bargain! Call -2148 today.