Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1996

Pasta, pasta, and more pasta

Uptown Pasta Company serves up some delicious pasta and vegetable dishes

By SUSAN RUGGIERO
Arts and Living Editor

I arrived early at Uptown Pasta Company, beating the Friday night crowd and enjoying the opportunity to look around the
restaurant before it filled up. Upon entering, I was pleasantly surprised by the decor of Cornelius’ latest dining choice. Set
amidst a sporting goods shop and Subway, this restaurant distinguished itself by the pretty blue candles burning on every table
and ivy along the window sills.

As the name suggests, the available menu emphasizes pasta. Almost any combination can be made by picking a pasta, sauce,
and a variety of toppings, which range in price. The menu is wonderful for vegetarians, for in addition to the
pasta combos, it features three vegetarian dishes and two vegetable appetizers. The sautéed mushrooms were very good in a white
wine and garlic sauce. The best part of my meal were the vegetables, which were served on penne with feta
cheese and lemon sauce.

For meat lovers, the menu was a little stark. The owner described several meat entrees which he will be adding,
but as of now, there are no meat sauces, two chicken dishes, and three seafood choices. One bonus, however, is
that the food appeared to be relatively low-fat; some of the dishes even used fat-free cheese.

Although the service was good, I was somewhat confused at first. We got our food within five minutes, which is
a good thing for college students. The problem came in its presentation. It was served in plastic, microwavable containers, which
looked very odd next to the candles. We later learned that the dishes and silverware had not yet arrived (the
restaurant is currently in its fifth week), and the to-go containers are temporarily being used.

A bonus feature of Uptown Pasta Co. is that it delivers. If you’re tired of pizza and don’t want to
cook, it’s the way to go, even though it costs more than Papa John’s (two meals, drinks, and an appetizer
cost about twenty dollars). It should only improve in the future, especially when the brick oven is added and the
menu expanded.

’Sup From page 8

worthy of their respect. I sincerely hope that no one receives the next greeting, for it is the biggest sign
that you are way below your opposite: If the person does nothing more than raise his head just high enough
to where his eyes can see you underneath that really cool college (other than Davidson) baseball cap which he bought
last week and then spent hours throwing it around and roughing it up so that it looks ten years old
and simply raises his chin in a nod to acknowledge you, you better run. That person, my friends, is in
a league of his own. Coolness like that only happens to a select few, and you are most likely not
one of those people. Just accept your inferiority, retain whatever dignity you still have, and hope none of your friends
witnessed this exchange.

You might think that someone putting their head down or bending down to tie their shoelaces to avoid talking to
you would be worse, but they might feel nervous around you because they think that you are cooler than they.
Or, it could just be that person you randomly hooked up with last night. Or, it could be a senior,
and seniors don’t really care about who they see or what they say to them — even if it is
that person wearing the roughed-up hat really low on the head.

Greetings aren’t all bad, however. If a person says “Hello, Johnny,” with a big smile and then follows it up...

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.With a question like, “How was your weekend?” the person
might be interested. But if the person simply says, “Hello,” doesn’t say your name and obviously makes no attempt to
know it, you can flush that one down the toilet. If someone says, “Hey, man,” or “Hey, dude,” they have
no clue what your name is but think that you might be pretty cool. Don’t act too excited when they
say this, but rather make them think you are truly cool with either a nod of the head or a
relaxed, “Not much, man,” and then walk away. If the next time they have found out your name, you can
bet you are in the driver’s seat. But if you try to act too cool and say something like, “Nothin’
really, dude ‘bra,” you can probably assume this person will give you a “Sup” next time. The ultimate sign of
respect is a handshake or high five. This person thinks you are super cool if you get one of these,
and you are. Just give that person a little skin and act like nothing really matters, Jeffery, all better now.
JEFFERY LIVES Will Nolan - and your name will be spread all over campus as a really cool dude. And
if they precede the high five with, “Yo, Jenkins,” or whatever your last name is, your future is set at
Davidson. Others will see this exchange and admire you...until they meet you and find out you aren’t really as cool
as they thought, that is. Watch out for the greetings you receive in the next few weeks. They will probably
affect your status for the next few years. And if you already have some friends, you all can help each
other out. If you see a friend in the hall between classes, say something like, “Yo, Murphy! Whassup, dude?” and
give him a high-five. When he responds with a real mellow, “Not much, ‘bra,” and walks away, you will have
officially made him a “Hip” person.

WEAR YOUR DAVIDSON COLORS AND/OR LOGO & RECEIVE 4 FREE TOKENS
POOL, AIR HOCKEY, DAYTONA DRIVING, SNOW SKIING & BASKETBALL SUPERSHOT ~TOURNAMENTS & MANY MORE GAMES
ALL YOU CAN EAT PIZZA BUFFET
892-5437 next to Movies at The Lake

At the Clubs — Music in two hours or less— COMPILED BY CLAY COFER

Monday, Nov. 25
Double Door: Les Moore, Jim Brock, Rick Blackwell, Johnny Alexander, Charles Hairston, Joe Linsey
Irish Cue (Cornelius): Scoot & John

Tuesday, Nov. 26
Amos’: Bill Hanna & Ziad
Coyote Joe’s (country): Vic Rorrer & The No Name Band
Hornets Training Center (Ft. Mill): Pantera w/ Neurosis & Biohazard
Mythos: College night - Techno
Pterodactyl: 80’s Dance
Rockafellas’ (Columbia): Chris, Ryan, Herbie & Bob
Tremont: THE LEMONHEADS w/ Fountains of Wayne
Ziggy’s (Winston Salem): Life in General

Wednesday, Nov. 27
Amos’: Doxy’s Kitchen w/ Hobex
Baha: Chairmen of the Board
Club 2000: College night Dance
Coyote Joe’s (country): Vic Rorrer & The No Name Band
Double Door: Extraordinaires
Jack Straw’s: The Other People
Loafers: Brothers from Mother
Rockafellas’ (Columbia): Sqwearl
Ziggy’s (Winston Salem): Jump, Little Children

Friday, Nov. 29
Comedy Zone: James Gregory
Jack Straw’s: Sugar Smack w/ Lou Ford
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance (1/2 off before 11 p.m.)
Tremont: The Freak Show

Saturday, Nov. 30
Baha: Dance (no cover before 10 p.m.)
Comedy Zone: James Gregory
Jack Straw’s: The Fiji Mariners
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance (1/2 off before 11 p.m.)
Tremont: Archers of Loaf/Pipe/Cole

Sunday, Dec. 1
Comedy Zone: James Gregory
Double Door: Les Moore and Friends
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Free dance lessons at 8:30 p.m. (Salsa & Meringue!)
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance (1/2 off before 11 p.m.)
Tremont: Benefit for Fire Victims (7 bands)

Club #’s
Double Door Inn: 376-1446
Jack Straw’s: 347-8960
Blockbuster: 337-2883
Baha: 525-3343
Coyote Joe’s: 399-4946
Tremont Music Hall: 343-9494
Amos’: 527-6611
Comedy Zone: 568-4242
