RIS & LIVING  
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1996  

“Skinny Girls”  
Black Box play brings eating disorder issues to the stage  
By JAMES BERRY  
Staff Writer  

Ah, the Black Box. The concept is an admirable one. Where else can you hear the actors swallow or crack their knuckles? Where else does the audience surround the stage so that no flinch goes unnoticed? Where else would people feel comfortable squatting over every inch of available floor space? Laps suddenly become empty seats, and two chairs offer plenty of surface area for three rears. When shows as popular as last week’s “Skinny Girls” take the stage, most of the improvisation comes into play by simply cramming the audience into the theater.

“Skinny Girls,” a play by Debbie Morrison, explores eating disorders through a collection of fragmented stories. The performance opens with a single actress explaining her problems with body image. She is quickly joined by the other five cast members, and from that point on, the play’s focus wanders from story to story, character to character. Each of the cast takes on the role of a character only long enough to tell the story before changing roles and acting out a different experience. 

I use the word “character” in its loosest sense. Most plays follow a plot, each actor representing one character throughout the performance, but “Skinny Girls” forces the cast to shift through several different roles. An actress might be the focus of attention one moment and then suddenly dissolve into the background to act as an observer in the next. Under the direction of Adriana Arcia, the six-woman cast (Heather Baldwin, Leslie Greiner, Adrienne Nixon, Lee Robinson, Rebecca Smith, and Kay Walraven) tackled each of their roles with relative ease. Each seemed comfortable as a principal character or a voice in the chorus. Their interaction on stage was also impressive, whether in the foreground or not.

At one point, Heather Baldwin couldn’t get her mind off of some Little Debbie snack cakes and, to make the scene all the more real, the rest of the cast wafted creme-filled goodies around Baldwin’s face as she delivered her monologue. Some other highlights include the infomercial delivery of a diet advertisement by Walraven and Greiner as well as Baldwin’s face-first approach in devouring a cake. The whole cast was in on the action to explain “how Barbie would walk in real life,” and some audience participation came into play when Baldwin gave up a piece of cheesecake to an audience member and watched him eat just for the pure joy of it.

In addition to directing, Arcia was responsible for the set and costume design. The set consisted of three low tiers and a small staircase leading to an elevated platform. The space between the platform and the lower parts of the stage was occupied by a suspended white sheet. Later in the play, a shadow of the female form appeared from a light projected through the hidden side of the sheet, creating a ghostly silhouette.

The play’s problems were limited to the script. In an attempt to keep the dialogue conversational, phrases such as “like” and “you know” infested every speech to an annoying degree. The reason for this, as I understand it, was that the script was taken from actual interviews. The play’s message would not have been lost in cleaner dialogue. Also, the play offers no resolution. After countless stories ofbulimia and anorexia, the play didn’t even pretend to suggest a solution to the problem. I didn’t even feel obligated to heighten my awareness. Though my feelings were mixed on the material, the performance couldn’t get much better. And, as audience members peeled themselves off of one another to exit the theater, I gathered that I was not the only one who’d been entertained.

JACKOPIERCE PLEASES PEPPY PEOPLE IN A PARKING LOT
By KATE GREENE
Concert Reviewer

Sponsored by 99.7 The Fox, Jackopierce entertained the after-work crowd Wednesday night. The event was held in the bus parking lot for Ericsson Stadium in Charlotte as a benefit for Speedway Children’s Charities. The parking lot atmosphere confused most concert goers, but the band was not daunted in the least and played for well over an hour.

Jackopierce, once a two-man acoustic duo, is now a full band, sporting both acoustic and electric guitar, drums, bass, harmonica, and occasional keyboard strains. Cary Pierce reported that the change was made because “they had done all that they could do as a duo.” This new band is their “dream band,” with its broader range of tones and different sounds. Jack O’Neill, the other half of the original duo, claims that the new band members “took to the band as a duck crosses the proverbial road.” Explaining himself, he remarked that the band was an organism thriving on cohesive vibes.

The first drummer to join the original members now plays with Reverend Horton Heat. Earl, the current drummer, was introduced to Jack and Cary on a bar patio. After Jack renamed him and confused his identity with the drummer Earl Harvin, the truth came out that he was Earl Darling, but the connection was already made and he did indeed play the drums. Earl began touring with the band a few weeks later. Cary refers to Earl as “their mystery guy.” Clay had a more traditional past, playing for several other bands, including David Garza.

As for Jack and Cary, they are perfect complements. Cary, from a Connecticut suburb of New York City, revels in soccer paraphernalia and old friends. Scott Zucher, a Davidson goalie in years past, was a co-player with Cary. Cary also has connections with several other Davidson alumni, such as Ross Saldarini, Kristi Kopps, Rosie Molinary, and Alex Deagan. Cary exudes optimism and energy, as well as being utterly charismatic. Jack, on the other hand, is introverted and enjoys his rebel-on-the-dark-side image. Although a seeming Byronic hero of the modern variety, Jack did not recognize the character type. The contrasting images of these two play into their music, exhibiting themselves in the numerous harmonies that construct their music.

The expanded band allows for much musical showmanship. Cary occasionally plays the keyboard for audiences, despite his fledgling skills: “I’m not a great piano player, but it’s fun to get up and play in front of a large audience.” In fact, the whole band feels that it is fun to play in front of audiences. Stage shows ranged from Cary prancing around with his sparkling green guitar to Jack smoking a cigar. Cary bought his guitar without ever seeing the color. This spontaneous choice was inspired by Vertical Horizon’s Matt Bennett, who suggested that green would fit Cary’s image. The show was off to a start with Cary’s announcement of the creation of “devil’s music,” perhaps in reference to the Billy

See Jack on page 13