SPORTS 14

By Michael Kruse
Assistant Sports Editor

Davidson cleared two major hurdles this week in its quest for Southern Conference perfection, clinching the league’s North Division championship
with a 95-76 win at VMI (16-9, 9-4) on Monday, and nipping high-scoring Marshall (15-10, 7-6), 83-77, in Belk Arena
on Saturday.

Men’s Basketball

“Of the teams that we’ve played this year — Kentucky, I put them at a different level from everybody else,
but Davidson is probably the best team that we’ve played. They may not be the most talented group of guys,
but when you talk about the word team, that is Davidson,” Marshall coach Billy Donovan said.

The Wildcats (22-3, 13-0) now own a 16-game winning streak, tied for second longest in school history, and have captured
19 of their last 20. A victory in tonight’s regular season finale at Furman would make Davidson the first undefeated
squad in the conference since Furman posted a 12-0 mark in 1975. No team has ever gone 14-0.

The Wildcats breezed through their first dozen conference contests, winning by an average of 22. A 106-57 throttling of Marshall
on Jan. 27 represented Davidson’s most lopsided league win ever. But Saturday’s rematch told a different tale, as the Wildcats
overcame a seven-point halftime deficit to take the emotional squeaker.

A Frank Lee-to-Carlton King alley-oop gave the Thundering Herd, the nation’s second most prolific offense (92.8 ppg), an 11-point advantage
(53-42) with 18:35 remaining. But Davidson outscored Marshall 30-14 over the next 12 minutes. Standout Brandon Williams notched 12 of
his game-high 26 points in the crucial drive. Chris Alpert also recorded eight of his 12 during the stretch, including
a three-pointer with 6:42 to go that gave the Wildcats a 68-67 lead, its first since the 13:20 mark of
the first half.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1996: Unbeaten string at a sweet 16. Wildcats top VMI and Marshall, continuing the path to Southern
Conference.

Ray Minlend finishes the game with a perfect dunk as the crowd goes wild. Jeff Anderson (12 points) and Ray
Minlend (7) jumpers handed the Wildcats a 72-67 lead with 4:32 left. But the Herd stormed back behind five of
Keith Veney’s 13 points in an 8-2 mini-run. A John Brown (10 points, 9 rebounds) free throw with 2:13 remaining
gave Marshall a 75-74 edge.

Williams then took control, scoring the next six Wildcat points, highlighted by a three-pointer from the top of the key
with just 55 ticks left, giving Davidson a lead it would never relinquish. Said Williams, “It came down to who
wanted it more.” A Minlend jam off a long Quinn Harwood (8 points, 5 assists) pass served as an emphatic
ending to an exciting game seen by 3,891, the second largest Belk crowd of the season. The final six-point spread
was Davidson’s largest of the day. Mark Donnelly chipped in 10 and Narcisse Ewodo added eight. John Brannen led the
Herd with 18 points and Jason Williams dished out 10 assists.

“I’m thrilled that we had a close game. I’m thrilled that we came out on top. And I’m thrilled that
it will be a learning experience for us,” said coach Bob McKillop, “To be able to continue winning, and to
learn while winning, that’s really gratifying.”

For Davidson’s five veteran seniors, Williams, Alpert, Harwood, Anderson, and Mark McGuire, the triumph marked their final Belk Arena appearance.
“This is just a great feeling, to play a great game of basketball in front of a great crowd,” said
Williams.

Davidson battled a hostile Cameron Hall crowd of 3,975, third largest in VMI history, on Monday night in Lexington, Va.,
stopping the Keydets’ seven-game winning streak and their string of twelve straight home wins dating back to last season.

“This is a special season for us,” said Minlend, “As the season goes on, we play a lot of tough
games. And the tougher they get, the tougher we get. We’ve kind of gotten used to handling the pressure.”

VMI’s 22-19 lead with 11:46 left in the first half was its last, but the Keydets hung around for the
majority of the game. Clinging to a 3-point lead with 7:47 left, Davidson quickly turned the nail-biter into a laugher
with a 26-10 game-ending run.producing the deceivingly wide margin. Minlend led six Wildcats in double figures with a game-best 19,
while Williams registered 18, Alpert and Harwood 15, Ewodo 12, and Donnelly 11. “You can’t shut one part of Davidson
down,” said McKillop, referring to the balanced Wildcat scoring assault, “Because if you do, someone else is going to hurt
you.” Added Donnelly, “If you’re having a bad game, you can look around and there are three or four guys
who are going to be playing well. That’s just the way it’s been all year: a lot of balance.” Brent
Conley paced VMI with 18 points and 8 boards. “Winning a conference victory like this by double digits in the
last five minutes of the game in an arena that was extremely hostile and for our guys to maintain their
poise and have their energy at such a great level is just a reflection on what a group of guys
we have,” McKillop said.

Professor runs family and town
By Carlo Reynolds
Staff Writer

Long-distance running has been a significant part of political science professor Susan Roberts’s life since she was in graduate school
at Notre Dame. That was when she ran the Bonnie Bell 10K in Chicago and met husband Kevin McCarthy after
discovering that they both were runners. They decided to drive together to their next race. “I ran a really good
time, probably because I was trying to show off for him,” Roberts said about her performance in the Road Apple
10K. She considers the Road Apple her first date with her husband.

It was not until the couple’s second child, Jack, was nearly a year old when Roberts decided to train for
her first marathon. “My friends and I were facing significant birthdays,” Roberts explains, laughing about how she became interested in
the 26-mile race. She completed the Marine Corps Marathon in Washington D.C. and the New York City Marathon a year
later in the Fall of 1995. Oprah Winfrey ran slightly ahead of Roberts for much of the race in Washington,
but encouraged by cheers from the crowd, she passed the talk show host.

With a busy schedule, Roberts finds it most convenient to train early in the morning. “It took a little while
to get used to running in the total dark, but I am just a morning person,” Dr. Roberts said. “Running
in groups helps. It is much easier to get up that early when somebody is waiting for you to go
with them.” Morning jogs are a time for her to socialize with fellow distance runners Nancy Slaegle, Davidson history professor
Sally McMillan, and what she calls her Pine Road group, which includes Zoran Kuzmanovich’s wife, Mary Beth. “What happens on
long runs is you talk to kill time,” she said.

Besides the health benefits that come with running 35 miles a week like she does, Roberts says that long-distance aerobic
exercise is a great way for her to release stress. She realized how important it was to have an outlet
for her tensions when she dropped a weight on her foot just before Christmas last year. Her injury prevented her
from running for a week. “By the end of that week I couldn’t stand it, I was climbing the walls,”
professor Roberts said with a grin.

As her two children get older, exercise is becoming a way for Roberts’s family to spend time outside together. Two-year-old
Jack rides in a runner’s stroller and seven-year-old Cormack pedals his bicycle while his parents go for jogs. Cormack has
already run competitively. He finished third in the Sail-Away Fun-Run in Mooresville. “For a while after that, when I came
home from a race, he would ask me, ‘did you win, mom?’ I’ve tried to convince him that just getting
out there is winning,” said Roberts.

Roberts is one of three members of the faculty advisory committee on athletics and was involved in the selection of
new athletic director Jim Murphy. She said that being a competitive runner gives her an appreciation of how challenging it
is to balance academics and athletics at Davidson. With two marathons under her belt, the

See Run! page 15
