12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING | MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1996

DESIGN DETAIL

NO. 16

BUILDING THE ESSENTIAL WARDROBE

A Series of Wardrobe Necessities

FOR KNIT WITS ONLY

If you want a bona fide Spring Break favorite, check out our Printed Cotton Knits from the Old School. From imaginative patterns to traditional stripes, our beefy cotton knits come in a variety of updated styles. Considering that they start from just $49.50, well, there’s just not a lot to knit pick!

Speciality Shops ON THE Park

To receive free catalog call 1-800-676-5373

Donna the Buffalo stampedes through Charlotte

By WILL FOY
Staff Writer

Get a big ol’ stewpot of cajun jambalaya, add in some blues, funk, a little psychedelic rock and some other assorted influences, and what you have is a big ol’ pot of Donna the Buffalo.

During the week, Charlotte earns its reputation as a dead town for music, but this Wednesday evening was different. Around a hundred people came into Jack Straw’s and celebrated the end of the hump day with a stampede. At the end of the night, people waltzed or danced somehow, because Donna’s music is the kind that forces you to dance whether you feel like it or not.

If you’ve ever seen The Big Easy, you have an inkling of what zydeco or cajun music is all about: simple percussion, a quirky but very danceable rhythm with fiddles and accordion accompaniment on melody or backing rhythm. These Buffalo add their Ithaca, NY, flair to this old bayou pastime, and this sonic fusion of influences spices up the zydeco to delicious music. Bass and drums provide the primary backdrop with simple, but at times, quick beats. Rhythm guitar provides additional emphasis on the beat, but begins to work into the melody provided by the keys, accordion, fiddle, lead guitar or vocal harmony. Of the six folks in this combo, four of them sing, and well, often, harmonizing with great effect.

I expected to see a typical cajun band, playing a lot of covers of standard tunes, but I was pleasantly surprised. Not only did they play all originals, they jammed. My experience with zydeco led me to believe that it would be a very fixed arrangement, but Donna proved me wrong. On an old organ, lead electric guitar, fiddle, and accordion, Donna the Buffalo led extended jams over zydeco rhythm and chord progressions. After speaking with them after the show, I was pleased to meet such kind folks, and it was the first time I’ve ever been thanked by the band for liking them. My only complaint was that Tara, the fiddle/accordion/acoustic guitar/vocalist didn’t smile.

“Art should discuss life, and Donna the Buffalo does just that. In their enlightened lyrics, they discuss depression, politics, religion, love, and nature, among other topics. Overall their performance was fun, and the crowd certainly stayed late for a week night, so they must have enjoyed the festivities. If you’re up for a fun night where you can dance, and stop all your worryin’, come check out something different than your usual “bar band” at the Brewery in Raleigh, North Carolina on Saturday the 23rd.

At the Clubs

—— Music in two hours or less

COMPILED BY WILL FOY
*This means good stuff

Tuesday, March 18th
Cat’s Cradle (Chapel Hill): Freddy Jones Band w/ Catfish Jenkins*
Tremont (Charlotte): Rancid w/ Rocket from the Crypt & the Suicide Machines

Wednesday, March 19th
Cat’s Cradle: Seven Mary Three w/ Clarissa & Poe
Tremont: Gangface Texas is the Reason
Ziggy’s (Winston-Salem): Billygoat

Thursday, March 20
Amos’s (Charlotte): Unknowns
The Brewery (Raleigh): Van Dangos w/ Pondering & Sunshine Spider
Be Here Now (Asheville): Junior Brown
Jack Straw’s (Charlotte): Belizbeha* (members of Phish Horns)
Ziggy’s: Freddy Jones Band*

Friday, March 21
Amos’s: Disappear Fear
The Brewery: Yolk w/ John Thursday
Be Here Now: Squirrel Nut Zippers
Cat’s Cradle: Junior Brown w/ Whiskeytown
Jack Straw’s: In Like Flynn
Ziggy’s: Fugazi* (no joke)

Saturday, March 22
Amos’s: Far Too Jones w/ Athan Zun*
The Brewery: Blue Miracle*
Be Here Now: Commitments w/ Cigar Store Indians*
Cat’s Cradle: Gibb Droll Band*
Jack Straw’s: Yolk*
Tremont: Southern Culture on the Skids*
Ziggy’s: Junior Brown

Sunday, March 23
Amos’s: Curiosity Shop
The Brewery: Donna the Buffalo*: see my review
Jack Straw’s: Honey Dogs*
Cat's Cradle: Purple Schoolbus*: modern jazzy jams
Millennium Center (Winston-Salem): Coolio* (tix @ Rec. Exchange)
Tremont: Fugazi*
Ziggy’s: Southern Culture on the Skids w/

Monday, March 24
Amos’s: Curiosity Shop
The Brewery: Meet the Meices
Tremont: Cindy Talk

84¢

from page 10

a chance to learn about their culture,” he explains.

Europe on 84¢ a Day fills a void in the travel market by combining budget travel tips with methods on how to get the most adventure out of your trip before you go into the next phase of your life — your career.

If Europe on 84¢ a Day says anything, it says that your travels should only be limited by your imagination and not by your wallet. Europe on 84¢ a Day is available in the campus bookstore for a budget price of only $12.95.

Michael Rowe’s “Roundup COWTASTROPHE” is on display in the Smith Gallery.