ALENDA LUX UBI

ORTA LIBERTAS

VOLUME LXXXVII

MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1996

NUMBER 25

SGA votes 16—15 not to renew IVCF charter

By Kirsten RECKNAGEL
Assistant News Editor

After seven days of legal research and soul-searching, the SGA’s 32 voting members rendered a highly anticipated and controversial decision
last Tuesday evening: by a vote of 15 for, 16 against, and one abstention, InterVarsity Christian Fellowship will not be
rechartered this year.

IVCF President Macon Stokes, a junior, was “disappointed with the results [of the vote]. I still think it’s an issue
of religious discrimination,” he says.

Spectators spilled out of the two and a half hour, standing-room-only SGA meeting last week, some clearly relieved, others visibly
disappointed. IVCF’s request that the SGA renew its charter has sparked campus-wide interest and debate like few other events in
Davidson’s recent history. Serious discussion began two weeks ago when the SGA’s Charters and By-laws Committee declined to recommend renewal
of IVCF’s charter, focusing on a recent amendment to IVCF’s constitution which states that IVCF leadership “should be free of
patterns of gossip and slander; drunkenness; sexual immorality, including the practice of homosexuality, or the inappropriate practice of heterosexual activity
outside of the marriage context; selfish ambition; hatred; lewdness; and the like,” (Article V, Section 1).

The IVCF has issued a petition to the SEC, the executive council of the SGA. President Warren Buford says the
committee is reviewing the petition, and the issue may or may not be presented at Tuesday's meeting.

Stokes is waiting to hear what IVCF’s options are. “We are just waiting to see what we can do,” he
says.

See IVCF on page 4

“If we had no winter, the spring would not be so pleasant” ~ Anne Bradstreet

Students find a peaceful and scenic place to study in among the azaleas and dogwoods behind the library.

Mary Clare Jalonick

1996-97 school year: After it all, a year of minor changes and major issues

By ADAM HICKEY
Staff Writer

While we may be tempted by our papers and exams to recall only the happenings of the last few weeks,
from the beginning this has been what President Kuykendall called, in an off-hand reflection, “a year of events.”

Shortly into the first semester, our ego took a blow when US News and World Reports dropped our rank from
8 to 21. By the time fall convocation rolled around, with only 32 seniors attending because it coincided with fall
break, academics had gotten off to a rocky start.

But students lose interest in classroom life. We rallied with a major cry for minors, which we got. And to
sweeten the deal, a concentration in Southern Studies was added as well.

You would not know the best was still to come, though — not with Letitia Campbell winning the Rhodes scholarship,
Mandy Curtis and Jennifer Hankins, Watson fellowships.

Some argued that academics is the focus of Davidson. Others disagreed, and the annual debate over religious affiliation erupted yet
again. The SGA said keep the president Presbyterian, but let the trustees and religion professors be non-Christian.

The trustees only half agreed. In April they reaffirmed our ties to the Church with a resolution. In April, they
removed the requirement for professors, but the trustees and the president remain Christian.

For the second year, vocal Christians erected Easter crosses as a sign of faith; others saw it as a sign
of aggression and responded with counter-crosses and posters, and a crossfire of words ensued.

IVCF got caught in the middle of the fray as the SGA denied their request for a charter based on
a policy in their by-laws.

But if the relationship between God and Davidson was unclear, so was the one between men and women. “Gender relations”

See Year on page 5

Sophomore B.J. Huff works on the Habitat House, one of many new developments this year.

Visitor arrested on drug charges

Incident just one of many this month

By Tosh Glazer
News Editor

In the past month, campus police have noticed a rise in crime on campus. Although these events are seemingly unrelated,
several students have found themselves in compromising situations.

The largest of these incidents was a full-scale drug bust that happened Friday, April 19th in Martin Court Building F
— according to campus police, the “largest in campus history.”

The incident ended with a non-Davidson student’s arrest. This person, a female, had arrived on campus to visit a friend,
a Davidson senior, from her hometown. According to the police report, she brought a trunkful of psilocybin mushrooms.

See Drugs on page 2

THIS WEEK

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

Will open parties

NEWS

Seniors wax nostalgic

OPINIONS 9

Dance troupe likes Tori Amos.

ARTS & LIVING 11

Professor and Pro-wrestler not quite, but Holland was good.

SPORTS 15
