SPORTS 13 MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1996

Kruse’s Cubby

Test time

By MICHAEL Kruse
Sports Editor

The men’s basketball team may not boast last year’s abundance of sheer athletic prowess. The average game this season looks
more like an intense H-O-R-S-E session than a dunking exhibition. In fact, the offensive attack resembles teeth-pulling at times. But
I don’t care. These Wildcats are an extremely likeable team. Passes are crisp and defense is stingy. Fundamentals are king.

Coach Bob McKillop has taken the talent he has and turned it into a team that looks to be entirely
capable of carrying on the winning tradition established here at the Big D over the past five or so years.
Just ask Wake Forest coach Dave Odom, whose second-ranked Deacons struggled mightily in the first half against the pesky Wildcats,
scoring just 23 points. Or Ole Miss coach Rob Evans, whose Rebels fell to Davidson for the second time in
as many years. Last year’s juggernaut needed overtime to knock off the Rebels last year in Oxford, Miss., 84-83. This
year’s squad slowed it down and controlled the tempo to post a 59-56 win over a more experienced and (at
least on paper) better team.

“This is one of the most enjoyable groups to coach I’ve ever had,” said McKillop after the Ole Miss barnburner.
“You come into practice every day and it’s a classroom environment. They really want to get better. They want to
do whatever it takes to get better.”

How fitting that perhaps the team’s greatest tests come in this exam week. The Wildcats travel to storied Cameron Indoor
Stadium in Durham on Wednesday to face the tenth-ranked Blue Devils and host Mecklenburg nemesis UNC Charlotte on Saturday night
in Belk Arena.

As much as it pains me, I must retreat from some of my glaringly negative views concerning the Panthers. Carolina,
which has been much maligned in this space before, is for real. There is no question after its 30-24 victory
yesterday at San Francisco, the team’s second win against the 49ers this season and third in four all-time meetings. Can
it truly be said? The Panthers seem to have the 49ers’ number. With the shocker, the Electric Blue and Black
catapulted into the NFC West top spot and clinched a playoff spot in only their second year as a franchise
- quicker than any other team in NFL history. Break out those damn teal Growl Towels, people!

Speaking of everybody’s favorite vulgar trendy hue, teal is beginning to be blinding in the sprawling metropolis of Charlotte. Think
about it. Of the Queen City’s four professional sports teams, only the East Coast Hockey League Checkers sport teal on
their unis. And they’re blue and orange, which, come to think of it, actually isn’t that much better.

Hoopsters off to quick starts

Men race to 4-2 mark

By MICHAEL Kruse
Sports Editor

College basketball pundits and local media all but dismissed the men’s basketball team as a contender coming into this season.
Not so fast though. The Wildcats have raced to a 4-2 start, including a come-from-behind 59-56 win over SEC foe
Mississippi last Monday at Belk Arena and an impressive first-half showing in a 69-45 loss at ACC power Wake Forest
Nov. 29. They also coasted versus Lynchburg (89-58) and Sewanee (99-59), both Division III teams, but faltered against WAC member
Southern Methodist on Thursday, falling, 72-55.

“We’re gonna have to fight for respect every time we take the court,” said coach Bob McKillop after the Ole
Miss game. “We won 25 games last year and it wouldn’t be known because we’re Davidson College, an academic liberal
arts college in rural North Carolina. And that’s something we’re always gonna have to fight.”

And fight they did against the Rebels (3-1), as point guard Ali Ton fired a go-ahead three-pointer with 57 seconds
left and then iced it with two free throws, capping an 8-0 game-ending spurt. Sixth man David Burns set the
scene for Ton’s heroics, banking in a three with 2:09 left to cut the deficit to 56-54. Burns finished with
11 points in just 11 minutes. Narcisse Ewodo went for 16 points and 11 rebounds. Jason Smith and Ansu Sesay
led the Rebels with 14 and 13 points, respectively.Johnnie Rogers wreaked havoc on Davidson’s inside game, grabbing 18 rebounds and
blocking 6 shots. Narcisse Ewodo goes in for a lay-up in Thursday’s loss to SMU. The defeat snapped the Wildcats’
13-game home winning streak. “I’m really very proud about how we grew up tonight in terms of a youthful team
doing something really big down the stretch to win a close game,” said McKillop. Davidson ultimately failed in its upset
bid against then third-ranked (now No. 2) Wake, but looked to be well on their way in the first 20
minutes. Behind hot shooting by Mark Donnelly (17 points), the Wildcats led throughout the first half until Tony Rutland (12
points) hit a layup 2.3 seconds before intermission, giving the Demon Deacons (5-0) a narrow 23-21 halftime lead in front
of 12,679 at Joel Coliseum in Winston-Salem. But Wake strung together a 7-0 run in the first three minutes of
the second frame and never looked back. All-American Tim Duncan tallied 20 points and 13 rebounds, while twin tower Loren
Woods, just a freshman, pitched in 15 points and 8 rebounds. Duncan and Woods limited Davidson’s attack down low, holding
Ewodo to nine points, Landry Kosmalski to four, and center Chadd Holmes to three. Kosmalski recorded a team-high eight boards.
The Wildcats shot just 30% from the floor. But their pesky pressure defense and determination drew rave reviews from Deacons
coach Dave Odom. “They were more ready to play than we were in the first half,” said Odom. “Bob McKillop
has done a wonderful job with a very young team. They out-hustled us in the first half.”

Aaron Kadoch

Carolyn Kirsch led the Wildcats to the Davidson Roundball Invitational title this weekend, scoring 18 points in the final.

Women get healthy, flourish at home
By Aaron Dunham
Staff Writer

After a shaky season-opening road trip in New York, the women’s basketball team has since won four of five games,
including a championship performance in the inaugural Cheesebrough-Ponds Davidson Roundball Invitational this weekend. The Wildcats also posted their first-ever win
over UNC Greensboro and had a solid showing at the Colorado St. tournament over Thanksgiving break. The Wildcats defeated Ivy
League member Columbia in the Invitational semifinals on Saturday, 77-59. After playing a sluggish first half, Davidson outscored the Lions
(1-5), 42-26, in the final 20 minutes. Carolyn Kirsch paced Davidson with 17 points and 8 rebounds. Center Jennie Vanlerberghe
and guard Jamie Brown, both all-tournament selections, each chipped in 14. In Sunday’s championship bout, the Wildcats knocked off previously
unbeaten UNC-Wilmington (4-1), 66-61. Kirsch, who earned tournament MVP honors, again led the Wildcats, scoring 16 of her game-high 18
points in the first frame and grabbing 14 rebounds. “Those are probably Carolyn Kirsch’s two finest games that she’s played
since she’s been at Davidson back-to-back,” said Filar. “That made a huge difference and it meant a big part about
us winning the tournament.” Davidson also relied heavily on their bench play, as Jamie Brown scored 8 points to go
along with 10 boards and Jennifer Sanborn added two key three-pointers in the second half. Point guard Monica Winter grabbed
two crucial offensive rebounds with less than two minutes to go, squelching a late Seahawk charge. “We felt like we
had let one slip away back against St. Francis so it was a great weekend for us,” said coach John
Filar. “We’ve been putting parts back in a little at a time. We need meshing but that will come. This
was a really big confidence-builder.” Injuries plagued the Wildcats for much of the preseason, but all 14 players were cleared
to go for the first time in Colorado, and have stayed healthy ever since. Davidson defeated Mercer in the first
round at Fort Collins, Col., 70-50, as Kirsch tallied 18 points and 8 rebounds versus the Bears. Jessica Montrella and
Vanlerberghe each added 10, and Winter notched 6 assists, with the Wildcats advancing to a title game matchup with host
Colorado St. There, Davidson fell 102-75 in a wild contest that featured 72 turnovers and 139 shots between the two
teams. “They (the Rams) were the best team we’ve ever played since I’ve been here,” said Filar. Montrella erupted for
21 points and 10 rebounds, Vanlerberghe struck for 14, and Jamie Brown had 8 points and 7 assists.
