THE DAVIDSONIAN BACK PAGE INTERVIEW OCTOBER 21, 1996

Before speaking at the US/China conference, Richard Nixon’s chief interpreter during his historic 1972 trip to China offers views on Hong Kong’s return to China, the Taiwan Strait, and China’s changing place as a new world power.

How would you characterize Sino-American relations at the moment?
Economic and cultural relations are flourishing. Political relations are troubled, however. China and the United States may be about to enter a new phase. The principal issue for contention is the Taiwan Strait issue. Since both sides of the Taiwan Strait no longer believe in the possibility of a peaceful settlement, Beijing and Taipei have essentially adopted policies that are antagonistic and could threaten to draw the U.S. into the conflict, which Americans don’t want to be involved in.

Can you clarify the Taiwan Strait dispute between Beijing and Taipei?
Peace in the Taiwan Strait has depended on the view by both sides that there are only two possible futures for Taiwan. One is the status quo and the other is reunification. Politics in Taiwan are now centered around the third option of independence. Because that is the direction of politics in Taiwan to change the status quo, Beijing cannot relax. Now that Taiwan is trying to gain a separate identity internationally, Beijing feels it has to treat the Taiwan question as an urgent one. Beijing thus feels the need to take strong actions. I think Taiwan’s security and prosperity require some form of working relationship with Beijing. As an American, I don’t care what that relationship is and I hope they can work out some form of understanding.

Is China a threat to its neighbors with its growing military capabilities?
China’s military strength certainly will continue to grow. China will become a very powerful country in the next century. This means the strategic balance and correlation of forces in the region is changing. That means that every country in the region needs to make adjustments as Chinese power grows. This does not mean China is expansionist or militaristic. Here’s the problem with China: China is the only great power to see its territory dismembered by other great powers. It is the only great power that does not have secured and recognized frontiers. Specifically, from the Sino-Indian border to the Korean seabed, virtually all China’s borders are unsettled. That means in the South China Sea, China disputes seabed resources with Indonesia and control over reefs and small islands with numerous Southeast Asian countries. And there’s the unsettled issue over Diaoyutai/Senkaku islands with Japan along with seabed dispute with Korea. This means that from China’s perspective, China must defend its boundaries as it sees them. But from the perspective of others, that might be seen as offensive and threatening. China’s actions are essentially defensive but are seen by others as offensive. The Taiwan question is a special case because it is a dispute inside the Chinese family.

How will Hong Kong change after being returned to China in 1997?
All sides will try to preserve the existing social and economic status. Politically there will be two changes. The democratization of Hong Kong by Britain violated the agreement between Britain and China. Thus the first change will be to change whatever Britain has changed in Hong Kong politically. The second is this: Beijing will try hard to...Keep Hong Kong the same as before, but the widespread corruption in southern China will probably flow over into Hong Kong after a few years.

Chas Freeman is the Chairman of the Board of Projects International. He spent 1989 through 1992 as the Ambassador to Saudi Arabia but has dedicated most of his career to China. He has served as Deputy Director of the Republic of China Desk in 1975-76, on the China Normalization Working Group in the 1970s, as Deputy Chief of Mission in Beijing from 1981 through 1984, and as Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs from 1994-94. Freeman gave the closing address of the conference on Sino-American relations, focusing on “Managing U.S.-China Relations.”

What are some ways by which we can help dispose of the misconceptions and misunderstandings between the U.S. and China? The short answer to that would be to engage in dialogue constructively and to restore communication. National Security Advisor Lake’s recent visit to China symbolized a change in policy of hostility and isolation for the past seven years. It also began a dialogue on how to bring China into international organizations and to bring China into the consul of the international society in a way that would serve the interest of the United States and the international society.

I think the Americans have an oversimplified and unrealistic view of China. China is a lot more intricate and complex than what the images of the Tiananmen massacre imply. China also has numerous problems and difficulties, which, when you understand them, enables you to be a lot more forgiving when you look at Chinese government policies. I’m not saying Chinese society has a lot of respect for human rights or is politically very open, but I am saying it is evolving in the right direction and is a lot more open than it was in 1989.

What would you like to say to Davidson students? U.S.-Chinese relations date back to 1843 when President Tyler first wrote to the Chinese Emperor. 1843 is an important date since China lost the title of the largest economic power in the world to Britain around 1850. That was also when China started to fall for the next 150 years. In the same period, the U.S. grew from tiny colonies to the world’s strongest country economically and militarily. China will become strong and take its rightful place in the world in our lifetime. Just as we have experienced difficulties in adjusting to the rise of the U.S. and the fall of China, we are also having difficulties adjusting to the rise of China. If you look at the next 35 to 40 years, that period will be dominated by opportunities and problems from China. By the year 2000, over 50 percent of the world’s economic growth will come from Asia and the bulk of that growth is from China. No student at Davidson or any American can afford to ignore the enormous shift in wealth and power that is going on, and which is revising Chinese stature in the world to something approaching what it was historically before China underwent the last 150 years of difficulty and collapse. The subject of China in all dimensions is something we should pay attention to because the lives of Davidson students will be affected by how China rises and how it uses its power.