16 DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1996

Hoops looks to continue winning ways
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

The last time we saw the men’s basketball team, it walked off South Carolina’s McGuire Arena court dejected, victims of
a 100-73 NIT defeat to the Gamecocks, a brutally anticlimactic and abrupt conclusion to what was until the final two
games a dream season for the Wildcats. A stunning loss to Western Carolina in the Southern Conference championship game had
dropped Davidson out of the NCAA picture. The Catamounts went on to steal the national thunder, nearly upending top-seeded Purdue,
while the Wildcats, still numb from Western, died an agonizing death in Columbia.

So, last year’s often magical 25-5 campaign, highlighted by a 14-0 league run and a 19-game winning streak that stretched
from December to March, marked a tangible return to a tradition of basketball excellence at Davidson.

“We definitely had a great team last year,” said Narcisse Ewodo, this year’s lone senior and returning starter. Only three
schools in the country — Kentucky, UMass, and UConn — posted more wins than Davidson, which ranked ninth in the
nation in scoring and fourth in scoring margin.

“We had a lot of talent, a lot of chemistry,” Ewodo continued. “And we lost a lot. This year’s going
to be a big challenge.”

Indeed. Five seniors from last year’s squad — including all-conference picks Brandon Williams, Quinn Harwood, and Chris Alpert — graduated,
and Ray Minlend, a fourth starter and junior-to-be, transferred to St. Francis (N.Y.) this summer. Those six accounted for 64
percent of the minutes played a year ago, 72 percent of the points scored, and 55 percent of the rebounds.

“The foundation, the framework, the impetus was all left behind by the graduated class. The road has definitely been paved
for us to move forward.”

Leading the pack will be Ewodo (6-8) and Mark Donnelly (6-5, Jr.), the two most experienced players on the squad.
Ewodo, a key contributor last year but usually not a go-to guy, will need to step up.

“Our point guard is a quarterback, an extension of the coach on the court,” McKillop explained. “Billy and Ali have
really shaped themselves into that type.”

Landry Kosmalski could vie for the starting nod at power forward and headlines the rookie corps. The four freshmen, who
may represent the finest recruiting class at Davidson since last year’s seniors, must shed the inexperienced label quickly and contribute
from the get-go. Kosmalski (6-7) is versatile, blending a hard-nosed inside game with effective perimeter capabilities. Stephen Marshall (6-8), who
has been sick for a week or so, will pose a solid scoring and rebounding threat in the paint when
he returns and recovers.

“It’s going to be very difficult to replace the statistics that we lost and even more difficult to replace the
type of personalities we lost,” said coach Bob McKillop at the Southern Conference Basketball Media Tip-Off. “With what we’ve lost,
the expectations would be a real question mark for us.”

And there are plenty of unknowns. The Wildcats lack experience, proven veteran leadership, and size down low. To even come
close to matching last season’s performance would be remarkable and probably impossible. But to record another winning season and another
postseason push — now practically an annual routine for Davidson — would not.

The Wildcats, tabbed second in the conference’s North Division behind Marshall in the preseason media and coaches polls, are well-schooled,
shoot the ball extremely well, and vaunt powerful newcomers. And perhaps more importantly, the team is now used to winning
and has grown to expect it.

McKillop, now in his seventh year as head coach, has established a consistent winner in the best Davidson squads since
the glory years three decades ago under the legendary Lefty Driesell. In the last three seasons, the Wildcats have posted
a pair of 20-win campaigns and NIT appearances and more victories than any other Southern Conference school. Last year’s seniors
finished as the winningest class in program history and left behind an indelible mark of winning. “I think the torch
has been passed. They’ve been able to pass on a bit of their legacy on how to win games,” said
McKillop.

Mark Donnelly will start at small forward and play what McKillop calls “a highly redefined role.” Donnelly, a shooting guard
with a deadly three-pointer, can score in bunches. During the two years Donnelly has played (he redshirted 1994-95), the Wildcats
have posted 47 wins. “I think a lot of leadership is going to come from me and Mark, particularly,” said
Ewodo. “I think I’m going to have to step up on defense and lead the team in offense.”

Center Chadd Holmes (6-9, So.), who logged, statistically speaking, a better rookie campaign than Harwood, will vault into a starting
role. Holmes boasts a fundamentally sound low-post repertoire and shot-blocking abilities. Ali Ton (6-0, So.) and Billy Armstrong (6-2, Jr.)
will both see significant action at point guard. Both vocal, fiery competitors, the duo will attempt to replace four-year starter
Alpert, Davidson’s all-time assists leader.

Croatian Davor Halbauer (6-3), the third international player on McKillop’s squad along with Ewodo (Cameroon) and Ton (Turkey), boasts a
potent long-range shot. “Davor has been just a great surprise for us,” said McKillop. “He’s quick, great on the dribble,
and one of the best shooters on the team, but he has to adjust to the American style of game.”

Guard Jeff Bergman (6-3), a champion scholastic high-jumper and long-jumper, is a gifted athlete. David Burns (6-7, So.), a prolific
schoolboy scorer who has the potential to be the same at the collegiate level, is a high-rising forward with one
of the team's smoothest shots. Walk-on Chris Stec, who has earned a permanent spot on the roster with two years
of commitment to the program, is an adept defender and open court shooter. Ben Ebong (6-8, Jr.), who could have
returned second semester, has elected to sit out the whole season to maintain two full years of eligibility.

“We’re not going to desert the style of play we had last year. We’re going to continue to defend, use
the bench, and run the court,” said McKillop. “Coachability is the biggest strength for this team. Second is chemistry. It’s
a team that doesn’t have a significant number of seniors and not very many upperclassmen with experience. But if we
can get them experience and confidence, we can round ourselves into a pretty good team this year.”

And the team will be hard-pressed to do anything but gain experience in the early going, as the Wildcats face
one of the toughest non-conference schedules in the country. Games against national preseason player of the year Tim Duncan and
Wake Forest, Mississippi, Southern Methodist, Duke, Mecklenburg rival UNC Charlotte, and Massachusetts - a Final Four team last year -
should be learning experiences if nothing else, and potentially confidence-building upsets heading into league action in January.

“It is an ambitious, challenging, extraordinary step for our program,” said McKillop of the schedule. “The potential for failure is
clearly more glaring than the potential for success (in non-conference games). Are we going to fold our tents from December
or are we going to learn and move on from there?” asked McKillop. “I believe we have talent and that
talent matures and grows. Whether that happens in February or March or not until next season, I don’t know.”

More questions. But questions can be answered. “They are the most fundamentally sound team in the conference,” said Western coach
Phil Hopkins. “He (McKillop) is going to prepare them for every game.” “Davidson’s a model program,” added first-year Marshall head
coach Greg White. “When McKillop started, they weren’t winning 20 games a year.”

“We don’t have as much talent, we don’t have as many athletes as we did last year,” said Ewodo. “But
we have good players and we’re going to work hard. And I think we can live up to those expectations.”
