DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1996

Field hockey preps for tourney
By CARLO REYNOLDS
Staff Writer

“This is our first losing streak in years. It’s also the youngest squad we’ve had in years,” said field hockey
coach Betsy Pryor after Sunday’s 1-0 loss to rival App. St. “It’s like (goalkeeper) Sarah Gebhardt said. We’re right on
the edge of the fence. We’ve got to decide whether we’re going to go ahead and jump on over or
not.”

With the Deep South Tournament a week away, Pryor and sidelined captains Mary Dowd and Mandy Neidert are doing their
best to urge the team out of its slump. Neidert is battling a stress fracture in her leg, but has
recently been granted limited playing time as her injury heals. On Sunday she battled with her younger teammates against App.
St. for about five minutes. “The lack of playing time makes it hard for her (to come back),” said Pryor.
Mary Dowd, who is awaiting knee surgery, paces the sidelines, unable to play at all.

“It’s a question of composure,” Pryor added. “We’re working on the team’s poise. That’s where the lack of senior leadership
on the field really comes in.”

“We were not playing possession,” said Pryor, giving an example of what happened in the App. St. game when the
team began losing composure. “We cannot just try to knock the ball down. Finesse has always been our type of
game, but we get frazzled, and we don’t play possession.”

After App. St. scored the only goal of the game, Pryor called a time out and cooled the team down.
“Seventy percent of the time we played well. The rest of the time we did not hold the ball,” she
said. “You have to receive and pass, receive and pass. We just hit it down, and App. St. can pick
those balls up. We have to have better passes.”

At the Deep South Tournament this coming weekend, the Wildcats meet Catawba and App. St. in a round-robin. “Payback!” Pryor
said about playing App. St. again. “We’ll work on fundamentals and shooting,” she said of her plans to prepare for
the rematch and the tournament. “A lot of times, when a team is losing, every little detail becomes an issue,”
she continued. “That is not true with this team. They have held it together. They are supportive to one another
on and off the field. Because of their attitude, they really deserve to be victorious. There are not a whole
lot of teams you can say that about.”

By CARLO REYNOLDS

Team drops three straight
Staff Writer

Sunday’s 1-0 loss to App. St. set up a tie-breaker for the field hockey teams at the Deep South Tournament
this coming weekend. In the other meeting with the Mountaineers this season, Davidson won, 1-0. The Wildcats will have to
find their winning ways again if they want to retain the Deep South title for the seventh straight year.

“We played with heart,” said Erin Smith, who in the final seconds of the game, stole the ball from the
defense for a fast break scoring attempt which was barely stopped. On Tuesday, the Wildcats fell to Longwood, 4-0, and
on Thursday they lost to Radford by the same count. Longwood capitalized on a few well-executed plays to overcome the
ailing Wildcats, who have now lost four games after beating Virginia Commonwealth. Radford came to Davidson to make up a
game that was rained out earlier in the season.

“We went to the ball more (than against Longwood),” said Smith. “But we couldn’t get it in the net.”

Volleyball spikes GSU and UNCA, but drops tough match against Furman
By DREW WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

Davidson won two of three matches this week, defeating UNC Asheville on Wednesday and Georgia Southern...On Friday before falling to
Furman yesterday, the five-game nail-biter against UNCA ended in a 15-9, 10-15, 12-15, 16-14, 17-15 Wildcat victory. L.A. Bumgarner’s 20
kills and Janet Duncan’s 6 blocks paced the Wildcats to their eighth win of the season. To kick off Parents'
Weekend, Davidson swept Georgia Southern in three straight games. Duncan again played an instrumental role in the victory, posting 9
kills and 15 digs. The Paladins ended the Wildcats' winning ways, notching a 17-15, 15-0, 15-7 victory. The Wildcats, now
9-16, look to better their record next week when they take on conference rival App. St. on Friday.

By Aaron DUNHAM

Harriers run to conference
Staff Writer

The men’s cross country team has had one of the best seasons in coach Gary Andrew’s 11-year tenure, but their
final two meets should tell exactly where the team ranks in school history. The Wildcat harriers will first race in
the Southern Conference Championships this Saturday at Western Carolina in Cullowhee, N.C. The team has high hopes for the meet.
“We want to try to equal the best in my 11 years here, seventh out of ten,” said Andrew. A
seventh-place finish would be remarkable given that Davidson is competing against scholarship teams. The top nine runners on the squad
will compete, led by star junior Josh Cookson, who has put together an excellent individual season. Five of the other
eight runners competing are freshmen, which bodes well for the future. Although Cookson, Pat Burchett, and Victor Talbird are all
nursing injuries, Andrew thinks that they should be healthy for the conference meet on Saturday. After a successful regular season,
the team now has the chance to prove how far they have come. “If they race up to their potential,
I would be willing to say that they are my best,” Andrew added. The team’s final meet of the year
will be at the NCAA Region III Championships at Furman University, the qualifying meet for the NCAA Championships.

Rugby leaves Deacons in its Wake
By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

Wake Forest’s rugby club visited campus Sunday afternoon, and the Wildcats turned back the Deacons with a 38-0 drubbing. “We
played really well,” scrum half Warren Buford said. The scrum fights for a line-out earlier this season. The play from
the first moments. The forward line consistently knocked the Deacons off the ball and set the physical tone for the
game. The back line handled the ball well and frustrated the Wake Forest attack with aggressive tackling. Trevor Thieme “This
was a team that we knew was going to come out and play us hard but we were able to
take them out of it from the beginning.” And the Wildcats did control SPOOKY FUN SALE 10/31/96 BOOKSTORE 20% OFF
CLOTHING WIN PRIZES GET CANDY WEAR YOUR COSTUME AND RECEIVE AN EXTRA 5% OFF Buford, Long, Ackerman, Baker, Burkhardt, and
Schenck scored tries for the Wildcats, and Burkhardt converted four of the kicks after. “We’ve come a long way as
a team and this decisive victory proves how far we’ve come,” Buford said.

WIN! from page 14
The game was marred by rough play, as Georgia Southern out-fouled the Wildcats, 16-11. Five cards were issued, including a
red card to Eagle Brian Oakes. “They’re a very physical team and they really wanted this game,” said Slagle. “A
win over us would have put them one win away from a conference championship.” The Wildcats (7-13, 3-3) finished with
a home record of 6-2. Davidson, which lost to cross-country rival UNC Charlotte yesterday, 1-0, now has almost two weeks
to prepare for the Southern Conference Tournament. “This team has always had heart,” said Kleeman. “But this will give us
an opportunity to get on the same page.”
