THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

By CATHERINE ANDERSON
News Editor

This past week, Davidson joined other colleges and institutions nationwide to promote awareness of eating disorders. Organized by the Student
Counseling Center, National Eating Disorders Week consisted of two organized gatherings and free screening at the counseling center throughout the
week.

Monday night, students and faculty joined together in the Carolina Inn for a seminar to hear three students’ personal accounts
of past experiences with eating disorders. Many attended to gain a larger understanding of the issue and to learn how
to help friends and loved ones who suffer from eating disorders.

A presentation to a crowded Visual Arts Lecture Hall on Wednesday night by Art Professor Dr. Nina Serebrennikov addressed the
effects of the portrayal of women in advertising. “The Very Skinny Woman in the Very Expensive Clothes: Images of Women
in Advertising” reviewed a series of slides of advertisements in popular magazines, from People to Glamour, that exemplify the media’s
enforcement and exploitation of women’s bodies. “It’s about the thin body that sells expensive clothes... Sex sells clothes, there’s no
question about it,” said Serebrennikov.

According to Serebrennikov, suggestive advertisements glorifying thin, androgynous trimlines pose dangerous threats to the esteem and self-image of a predominantly
female audience. She emphasized the universality of the effects of such advertising as targeting all age groups “to the grave.”

Handouts were available at both presentations giving guidelines for preventing bad eating decisions and confronting those who struggle with them.
Health Educator Georgia Ringle, coordinator of the week, is excited and encouraged by the response to the programs of the
week: “I was really pleased with the response.”

A task group has been organized to further deal with the issue of eating choices made by Davidson students. “The
more this issue is brought to the forefront, the more people will seek help,” says Ringle.

Dr. Dewitt Crosby, Psychologist at the Counseling Center, is equally encouraged: “I think it’s a testimony to how much this
is on people’s minds and how much of a concern this issue is, and it’s a testament to how much
support there is on campus for people who are struggling with this issue.”

“I just hope the week touched someone's life who was suffering and will give them courage to seek help,” says
senior Morgan Perry.

Love sweet love from page I

and he has “no regrets.” Like Barton, Professor of Physics and Humanities Robert Manning met his wife on a blind
date and immediately had strong positive feelings about her. He was a graduate student at the University of Virginia when
he met his wife-to-be. One of his friends was dating an instructor of nursing at UVA. The friend and his
girlfriend set Manning up with one of her friends (also an instructor of nursing) on a blind date to a
cookout. By the end of the evening, Manning says, “I was convinced that if I didn’t marry her, I was
a fool.” They were married one year later and have resided in Davidson ever since. Manning says of his marriage,
“We have three wonderful children and have been in love for a whole bunch of years.”

A more recent marriage is that of Annie and Randy Ingram, both of the English department. They met in 1989
at a graduate school potluck at Emory, but they were friends for years before they dated. This was “mostly because
Randy was always occupied by some other woman,” according to Annie, but Randy says, “that’s not true at all.” In
the summer of 1993 they were reacquainted at a party. Annie returned from a backpacking expedition to find Randy a
“free man.” She says he had “wizened up,” but he says he always thought she was “too pretty and too
smart and way out of my league.” However, of the night of the party, he says, “She was flirting with
me BIG time.” But rather than asking her out “like any normal person,” Annie says, Randy decided to invite Annie
and a few friends over to make ice cream and watch a movie.movie, “It was all a pretense,” he says;
he had to “lay low.” The group got together the following evening to watch another movie, and the next day
Annie found a thank you note and a “little piece of candy” in her mailbox. She was so excited until
she learned that her friend Marsha received the same. Then there was what Annie calls “the ill-fated birthday movie.” Randy
left another note in Annie’s mailbox, this time asking her to a movie for her birthday since he could not
attend her party. She never got the note. Days later, upon discovering Annie had not received the invitation, Randy told
her of the note and invited her to another movie. They then went on what Annie considers their first date,
but what Randy considers a friendly movie outing. Afterwards, they went to Annie’s house and talked for hours. Of when
he left, Annie says, “I didn’t even get a hug. I was hoping for a goodnight kiss, but I got
no hug, no nothing.” She thought he wasn’t interested. Until she woke up the next morning and found a “major
crush note” taped to her front door. Randy wrote it thinking that he would tell her how he felt and
then they would “deal with being friends.” Little did he know, that less than two years later they would be
married. Without a doubt, the story most resembling a fairy tale romance is that of Dr. Whitton, of the mathematics
department. He remembers the exact date he met his wife — Friday, September 8, 1978. “It was late in the
afternoon,” he says, “and I was out riding my horse when I noticed two guys in an argument with a
woman.” He rode over to them and asked if there was a problem. One of the men replied, “The only
problem around here is you, buddy,” and at that moment the light flashed off my armor and blinded them. It
was then that I picked my wife up off the ground, lifted her onto my horse, and we rode off
together into the sunset.”

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1996

Open forum addresses new zero tolerance laws
By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
Assistant News Editor

“I’m not here to give a lecture [about the dangers of drinking and driving],” Sergeant R. E. Medlin of the
North Carolina Highway Patrol told his audience Wednesday evening, “but to let you know where you stand, what the laws
are, and how they affect you.” Joined by Davidson’s Substance Abuse Counselor, Dr. Art Flagg, and Sergeant David Harding of
the Campus Police in Chambers Gallery Wednesday evening, Medlin led an open forum designed to inform students about North Carolina’s
new state laws concerning drinking and driving. Medlin explained that under the state’s recently passed legislation, dubbed the “Zero Tolerance
Laws,” drivers who are under 21 years of age and are found to have any trace of alcohol in their
bodies automatically lose their drivers licenses for a full year, with the possibility of a DWI charge and increased insurance
premiums. Any presence of open containers of alcohol in the passenger areas of cars is illegal, regardless of the age
of the driver. According to Medlin, most fatalities resulting from alcohol-related car accidents are young people. “What these laws are
trying to do is protect you,” he said. State law not only attempts to curb the problem of underage drinking
and driving by targeting those drinkers under the age of 21 who are caught behind the wheel, but by focusing
on all age drinkers. The consequences are steep if individuals under 21 years are caught attempting to purchase alcohol. The
offense may result in fines of up to $500 and/or imprisonment up to six months. Individuals of legal drinking age
who purchase alcohol for underage drinkers face even greater penalties, fines as high as $2,000 and a prison term of
up to two years. After summarizing the new laws, Medlin answered a forum of general questions from the audience.

SAVVY
Ultimate Hair Services
Complete Nail Services
Assorted Retail Products
20430-2 Norman Crossing Shopping Center
I-77 Exit 28, behind Wendy's
895-0404

We could ALL use a little more SAVVY! Why drive to Charlotte when Lake Norman has All the SAVVY You
Need!
