THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1996

$5 Question of the week: Why were chalk boards in Chambers replaced with white boards?

One senior asks: Why were chalk boards in Chambers replaced with white boards? Three math professors, Dr. L.R. King, Dr.
Benjamin Klein, and Dr. Irl Bivens, have different views on the new boards, but all three say that they prefer
the boards — or do not have any preference.

The white boards have some definite advantages over chalk boards. As King explains, “It’s not a matter of which board
I prefer, but rather that white boards are necessary if you want to use a computer in the room, because
chalk boards can get dust in the computer.” Klein adds, “The boards allow you to use multiple colored markers, which
the chalk board could never do effectively. Also, you can use a projector on the white boards.”

However, there are also negative aspects of having white boards. As Klein states, “White boards can’t be cleaned properly, and
they do wear out. Eventually, they will need to be replaced.” Bivens adds that “the boards take some getting used
to.”

Professors in the department voiced no strong preference for either type of board. Bivens says, “The white boards aren’t bad,
as long as the smell of the markers doesn’t bother you. I have no strong preference.” Klein adds, “If I
had to vote I would choose white boards, but it’s a close call.”

Ask your burning question and we will try and answer it for you! Call 2148 or leave us a note.
— Compiled by Andrew Preston

Campus Police extend towing moratorium
By IAN HUMMEL
Staff Writer

After assessing the results of the two-week towing moratorium, Campus Police have decided they will not tow students illegally parked
in faculty spots until the end of the school year. Campus Police reviewed the two-week trial period proposed by Student
Advisory Council co-chair Lucian Dervan ‘98 to Ray Thrower, Director of Public Safety, in which towing would be replaced by
tickets and fines.

They found that during the moratorium there was an increase in the number of illegally parked cars. However, the increase
was deemed not substantial enough to make them tow again. “If it [the illegal parking] really goes up heavily this
year, we may have to readdress this issue next school year,” said Thrower. He also said that the campus police
are attempting to make the parking policy “as liberal as possible,” but it is fundamental that the students work with
the police for any policy to be effective.

Dervan was pleased with the decision to extend the non-towing policy. “That’s excellent,” he said, “That’s what we were hoping
for.” The Advisory Council hopes that newly placed signs in the parking lots will help quell the parking problem, but
the success of the policy likely hinges on the effectiveness of the lesser deterrent of tickets to prevent unlawful parking.

In the case of an escalation in the problem, Anne Ford, co-chair of the Advisory Council, said a compromise may
have to be made such as towing a car after the third parking offense. For now, however, Dervan and Ford
are pleased that the student concerns have been addressed and hope that the problem will not cause towing to be
implemented again.

International house plans will not surface soon
By JOHN DUNWOODY
Staff Writer

As Davidson’s international student population has grown over the years, an idea to have a house for international students was
born. The International House had hopes of being similar in some aspects to the Black Student Coalition and at the
same time maintaining its own unique flair. However, plans for the International House are not going to surface this year.

Last year a submission was made by Dr. Kenneth Brown, Director of the Dean Rusk Program, for the house. The
International House would have been located in a Davidson-owned residence on MainStreet. Brown’s proposal will not be implemented for a
number of reasons, one of which was a lack of funds. Departments that were supporting the proposal did not have
enough money to cover the costs. In addition, the new Student Union, Student selectivity: Davidson ranks 9th By JENNIFER STARR
Staff Writer Students’ decisions of where to apply and to attend determine the student selectivity portion of US News’ ranking
criteria. Two years ago, Davidson ranked sixth in student selectivity. Due to a slight fall in the number of applications,
Davidson was eleventh last year. This year Davidson rose to ninth.

The student selectivity ranking is based on the number of applications a college receives, yield (the percentage of students offered
admission that choose to accept), the middle 50% of SAT/ACT scores, and the percentage of freshmen in the top 10%
of their graduating class. Mild variations in the number of applications and yield cause Davidson’s student selectivity rating to fluctuate
slightly from year to year. Admissions does not expect any substantial changes in Davidson’s student selectivity before, but the number
of applications is down slightly.

Does Davidson’s ranking as eleventh liberal arts college in the US News and World Report survey really matter to a
prospective student? According to the Department of Admissions, it depends on the student. Dean of Admissions Nancy Cable explains, “Some
students rely heavily on rankings like the one in US News and World Report. Other students understand that ranking is
a poor measure of how appropriate a certain institution is for their academic and personal needs.”

Town restructures Main Street parking policy from page 1

Whether students directly affected the change, however, is another question. Senators Sara Straus and Kurt Fesemeyer agree that students had
little direct input in the revision. "When I called Mr. Brice before break," Straus says, "they had already made the
decision." She finds no fault with the lack of town-gown communication, however, since the town's primary focus is its commerce.
"They're concerned that their businesses are happy," she says.

SGA President Warren Buford believes student voices in Town Hall will be louder in the future. “Where I do think
we have made significant steps," he says, "is with Sara and Kurt going to begin the initial discussions with Mr.
Brice and others on the town council about setting up and structuralizing some sort of student representation." Buford says the
SGA considers dialogue with the town to be “one of the top priorities this semester.” To encourage discussion, the SGA
is planning a round table dinner with the Mayor’s office.

“It’s something not only necessary, but would be very advantageous, I believe, to students as well as town council members.
I hope that they would welcome it and would be as excited... as we are,” Buford says.

The new Student Union, which will be built at some point in the coming years, will have an area designated
solely for International Student use. The area in the new Union and the house would be very similar. Davidson does
not want to have duplicated areas, which would likely occur if International House plans go through. Ruth Pittard states, “It
takes a while for any project to get started. Last year was the first year that this proposal was made.”

“The refusal does not mean that the project will never come about, if the interest remains high proposals will continue
to be made,” she says.

Visit the world outside the carrel and get involved! Write for The Davidsonian. It’s fun. You get to meet cool
people. Learn about your alma mater. Improve composition skills. See your name in print. Channel negative energy. Beef up a
resumé. Pull a weekly all-nighter with the editors. Make your parents proud. Writers are sexy. We are actively seeking writers,
especially freshmen and sophomores. Call John or Mary Clare at -2148.
