THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, MARCH 25, 1996 7

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
JAMES BERRY

Arts & Living Editor
CAROLINE BYNUM

Business Manager
MARY CLARE JALONICK

Asst. Arts & Living Editor
MARY TOWLES ALLISON

Photography Editor
JOSH GLAZER

Associate Editor
TERESA WHITE

Sports Editor
WILL BRADSHAW

Advertising Managers
BEN GRIFFIN
BONNER MEAD

News Editor
CATHERINE ANDERSON

Assistant Sports Editor
MICHAEL KRUSE

Assistant News Editors
NARESH NAGELLA
CHLOE BROOKE

Circulation Manager
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL

Copy Editors
CARRIE BLACKBURN
SUSAN RUGGIERO
KATIE McKELVIE

Web Page Manager
BRAD CHASE

Opinions Editor
JILL WILLIAMS

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Davidson's Oh-So Global Perspective

LETTERS

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at: http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Intellectual thugs

Tuesday night Christine Hoff Sommers addressed the question: “Who stole feminism?” The small group of Davidson students which made the
time to cluster in the front rows of Love Auditorium were searching for an answer to this question, one not
easily answered. Most people at Sommers’ lecture found her views offensive. They stood up and shouted at her, and to
their surprise, she shouted right back. What followed was an exchange of ideas that enthralled (or angered) most audience members.
Not everyone disagreed with her. Some stood up and said they believed in her.

The people who stood up on Tuesday night were largely the same people who stood up last year when NOW
President Patricia Ireland spoke. They speak in class every day and make their opinions known to the masses. However, there
were a few students who stood up to Sommers whom we don’t usually hear from.

Sommers cited a list of gripes that Cornell University women had against men and noted that this list was based
on false statistics. This is a valid point, but she also dismissed the purpose of the list, a response to
a list made by four males called “Why women (bitches) shouldn’t have freedom of speech.” When Davidson students pointed this
out to her, she dismissed the original list as a satirical joke between friends. Dismissing anything as violating as this
joke is chilling. These males might not have meant a word they said, but the fact that it was written
is enough. “Jokes” like this perpetuate the ambivalence that we so often see at Davidson. Some, like Sommers, believe that
people just need to relax. No one needs to tell Davidson to relax. Some things are simply worth stressing over.

Too often Davidson students forget that a college campus is much more than books and beer — we are starved
for intellectual pursuits. One doesn’t need to read Kant in their free time. One just needs to think, to listen,
to speak, to stand up for what one believes in, to care. Christine Hoff Sommers was a wonderful choice of
speakers for women’s month. She got people talking. She drove people out of their lazy acceptance, riled people to abandon
previous self-consciousness. Men and women ranted and raved in the halls, in dorms, and on the Court. Whole classes were
devoted to her. She may have angered most people who heard her, but she brought out a side in people
that some didn’t even know they had. And we have to give her credit for that.

Sommers misrepresented feminism

To the Editors:

There was a lesson to be learned Tuesday night at Professor Hoff Sommers’ lecture “Who Stole Feminism,” an important one.
Hoff Sommers portrayed herself as the best of feminism, yet as she stood before us demanding to be viewed as
a logical, rational, and eminently reasonable scholar, she revealed herself as a parody of the very stridency and narrow anecdotal
methods of the group she attacks as “gender feminists.” While censuring women who hold the book WAC Stats over their
heads in denunciation of a patriarchy which continues to oppress them, she held the self-same book over her own head
as a rallying cry to attack gender feminists. WhileBerating gender feminists for misrepresentation, she tailored her “facts” to fit her
argument. Her angry self-righteousness rendered her claim to calm logic in the face of the raging Furies of feminism ludicrous.
The best of feminism in academia works otherwise: instead of seeing issues as black and white, as “I am right;
therefore you are wrong,” the best of feminism begins from the assumption that issues are complex, that they demand analysis
and discussion, not necessarily in the certainty of finding clear-cut absolutes, but greater understanding. Professor Hoff Sommers missed a fine
opportunity to explore the complexities of feminism and make us want to consider her position with equal grace and calm.
While Hoff Sommers did not show her ideas or herself to her best advantage, the Davidson students in attendance did.
You were wonderful: well-informed, rational, insightful, balanced, polite yet persistent. We were enormously proud of you.

Sincerely,
Jeanne O’Neill
Sara Beasley
Annie Ingram
Mary Thornberry
Rosemary Zumwalt
Donna Di Grazia
Susan Roberts
Nina Serebrinikov

Career Services responds to Professor Rigger

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address all
correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located
on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do
not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are
available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editors:

Dr. Shelley Rigger, writing in “Faculty Voice” on March 18, 1996, took issue with the title of a workshop she
says the “Career Services is offering ... called ‘Taking Time Off.’” Stating “I just don’t like it [the phrase],” she
goes on to say “I guess you could say I took four years off.” This is the lead-in to a
list of unique and joyful experiences which she praises as having made a significant difference in helping her to focus
upon the graduate studies she pursued in 1988. The value of Dr. Rigger’s opinion piece is obvious — many students
yearn to hear personal life experiences from faculty whom they greatly respect and admire. However, introducing her personal experiences by
misstating and criticizing the title of a Career Services workshop seems unnecessary and baffling.

The title of the workshop which Dr. Rigger mentions may be the one entitled “Taking a Year Off Without Guilt.”
The genesis for such a workshop came from the collaboration of staff who have spent numerous hours talking with seniors
and other students who have sought advice and guidance in doing just what the words in the title suggest. Webster’s
defines taking as “to seize or capture.” Off is defined by Webster’s as “so as to be no longer supported
or attached.” Guilt is defined by Webster’s as “a feeling of responsibility for some real or imagined offense.” Our title
was purposefully chosen to draw those students who might want to share or discuss non-traditional interesting things to do within
the context of feelings of separation, responsibility, and independence.

Had Rigger come to the workshop, I think what she said in print would have been enthusiastically received by all
of us who attended — if in fact anyone was brave enough to attend. Davidson students are comfortable in one-on-one
conversations concerning their personal lives, but a workshop with their peers or students they may not know is a forbidding
thought. The choice of “Taking Time Off” or of “Taking a Year Off Without Guilt” may be commonplace or inappropriate
titles, but both are phrases which get a reader’s attention. To get the students’ attention (and faculty in this case),
we sometimes are guilty of ad agency tactics. We hope the community at large understands our sincere desire to serve
and to facilitate student development.

Sincerely,
Carol Jordan
Career Services
