4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1996

Nicaraguan labor organizer speaks about rights abuses

By IAN HUMMEL
Staff Writer

On Wednesday, October 2, Davidson served as host to Nicaraguan speaker Roberto J., a pseudonym for a man who is an underground labor organizer. He came to Davidson as a part of a tour funded by Witness For Peace, an organization committed to an end to U.S. policies “which contribute to poverty and oppression” in Latin America and the Caribbean.

The subject of Roberto’s talk was the atrocities of Nicaraguan labor practices, the tragic conditions of which he says few Americans know. According to Roberto J., Nicaragua is in a state of economic ruin. Its unemployment and underemployment levels are reportedly as high as 60%. For those who do hold jobs, salaries are low; the average salary of agricultural workers is $1.50 per day. In response to economic decay that has plagued the country, President Violeta Chamorro was forced upon election in 1990 to make drastic concessions to lure investors to build factories in Nicaragua. These concessions came in the area of workers’ rights.

Roberto J., a 31-year-old father of two, has been working in Nicaraguan factories known as “maquilas” since the age of 15. In the years he has worked, he says he has seen various worker abuses ranging from the overworking of employees to the employment of minors to physical abuse. He spoke last Wednesday of incidents of miscarriage induced by long hours of work imposed upon pregnant women. He told also of cases of respiratory tract illness caused by the lint-filled air in which employees work. These things occur beneath the noses of a callous management, he said, who provide health services to workers consisting of two doctors for 11,000 employees.

Roberto J. said that workers are forbidden to make any disparaging or derogatory comments about their employers, and complaints serve as grounds for termination. Beyond loss of employment, Roberto J. said that many workers fear for their lives, and regard their employers as “mobsters” who have been suspected of assassinating labor organizers. Despite this risk, Roberto J. leads 12 clandestine commissions who work secretly for labor reform within Nicaragua. Taking leave of work on a doctor’s excuse that was paid for by a bribe by Witness For Peace, he has come to the U.S. under the name Roberto J. in an attempt to spread awareness of the Nicaraguan workers’ plight.

No one really knows where velvet came from. Some say the Italian Renaissance. Then again, others say the Far East. But no matter where it originated, velvet has thankfully evolved into a contemporary favorite right here at Harold's. From fun new zippered tops to Harold's Cela Velvet Blouses, Vests & Sets. To receive Harold's free men’s and ladies’ catalogs, call 1-800-676-5373. New velvet classically styled stretched polo pullovers, the look this season is textured luxury and the best examples are in velvet. But don't look for them in the department stores, because you'll only find them at Harold's. Specialty Shops on the Park, Charlotte. Actual styles may vary from those shown here. Quantities limited.

IVCF

Will Nolan
IVCF members sing during their weekly meeting Wednesday.

Union Board objectsto programming from page 1

Blake contends that the physical questions only quizzed respondents on such neutral issues as whether or not they “paint their toenails.” And even if survey items tread on touchy ground, he says, “Davidson students are intelligent. They would know the show was mocking itself.”

Other Union Board members weren’t so sure, and Blake offered to revise his questionnaire for presentation at last week’s meeting. Even then, when “he definitely went for changing the questions” of body type, doubt was still left in the minds of Board members, says Gallery Committee chair and Union Board member Molly Dowling ’97. “The [physical] questions still left a lot of people feeling like the audience could interpret [them] as hurtful, and could respond to them hurtfully.”

Senior Board members remember a similar dating game played during freshman orientation in 1993, and feared a repeat scenario. “The questions can be tame,” says Hamlin, “but the audience and attitude can get out of hand. It’s unpredictable.”

Like other Board members, Dowling applauds Blake’s efforts, but felt in this instance that they were perhaps misplaced. “John is very enthusiastic and excited, and we admire that, but there was a concern about what audience momentum could do with [‘Singled Out’],” she says.

Blake finds the premise of “Singled Out,” a show which doesn’t leave its contestants the chance to improvise responses, to be far less offensive than another DCTV show which shows viewers how to make cocktails. “I object more to the bar show than ‘Singled Out,’” Blake says, who hosts the bartending show himself. “But the fact that there’s not a similar show [on network television] makes it difficult to compare.”

At the October 2 Union Board meeting, the decision on whether “Singled Out” would be aired as DCTV’s kickoff event based on what Blake had presented at that point came to a vote, a situation Brown says he has seen only twice in his tenure as Union Director. Blake himself was the only one who voted to move forward with the event. The votes of the rest of the Board were roughly split down the middle: a little over half voting against the show, a little less than half abstaining from voting.

Hamlin says the Union Board moved “to postpone the event indefinitely,” because “we don’t want to contribute to something we seek to work against,” a sentiment supported by by-laws concerning the role of the Video Committee and the nature of DCTV’s programming.

spaces.

Towing Moratorium Statistics: Week 1

According to terms agreed upon by the Campus Police and student representatives on the Student Advisory Council to the Director of Public Safety, the currently observed two week-long towing moratorium will continue indefinitely, provided “there is not an average of more than three cars per day [illegally] parked in faculty spaces.”

Following are the week’s statistics compiled by Campus Police regarding the number of students who would have been towed for parking illegally in faculty spaces:

Monday: 3 cars
Tuesday: 6 cars
Wednesday: 6 cars
Thursday: 3 cars
Friday: 9 cars

During the two week agreement, the usual $30 parking fine will be issued to any student illegally parked in a faculty space.