> ee, Am Tn me SPORTS V4 Free Bird should be jail Bird MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1996 ee. er te
Ra RE aa Kruse’s Cubby By MICHAEL KRUSE Sports Editor In what is supposed to be baseball’s most sacred season
- the postseason - the Baltimore Orioles’ second baseman Roberto Alomar planted an unforgettable and inexcusable stain on baseball’s too-often
tarnished image. In the final week of the regular season, the smooth-fielding, heavy-hitting Alomar disputed a strike call by hawking
a loogey in plate umpire John Hirschbeck’s face. After the game, Alomar added insult to injury by saying Hirschbeck had
become “bitter” ever since his 7-year-old son had died from a rare brain disease. Alomar’s punishment: a five-game suspension at
the beginning of next season, allowing him to play on the crucial final weekend of the regular season and in
the playoffs before serving his time in relatively meaningless April contests. Despicable. Pathetic. Spineless. Say hello to Major League Baseball’s
figurehead regime. As much as I loathe Cleveland hothead Albert Belle, I will say this in his defense: if he
ever spat on an umpire, MLB's powers-that-be would suspend him for life on the spot. The same cannot be said
for Alomar, who has traditionally been a good boy. But track record can count for only so much. First offense
murder is still murder. Alomar, free as a bird for now, homered to clinch the American League wildcard slot the
day after. The superstar, despite being booed and jeered mercilessly by Indians fans at Jacobs Field, then came through in
the clutch with a two-out, game-tying single in the top of the ninth against the Indians in Saturday’s Divisional Series
battle and then smacked a game-winning homer in the twelfth to oust the defending A.L. kings from the postseason. Great
player. Horrendous role model. In an attempt to cleanse his suddenly rotten name, Alomar issued a written apology last week
and donated $50,000 (actually, a rather insignificant sum for a guy making multi-millions) to the research foundation for the disease
that killed Hirschbeck’s son. Too little, too late. Hirschbeck, whose nine-year-old son also has the disorder, formally forgave Alomar on
Saturday. But forgiving is not the same as condoning. And Alomar’s actions should not have been on the field to
get the O’s into the playoffs in the first place, and he should not have been on the field to
beat the Tribe. Period. And the sad truth is that Roberto Alomar, a perennial All-Star who should be known for
his sure hands, superhuman range, and pop at the plate, will now be forever remembered as the guy who spat
on an umpire.

Women’s soccer pummels Mocs Team leads conference despite three straight non-league OT heartbreakers By WILL BRADSHAW Sports Editor It must
have been like kissing your brother. Three times the women’s soccer team (5-7, 3-0) took regional top ten teams to
the brink, and three times they fell in overtime. “I have nothing but an incredible amount of respect for them,”
UNC Greensboro coach Jack Poland said after his team dropped the Wildcats 4-1 in overtime on Wednesday. “They deserved to
win. They took us out of what we wanted to do, and I hate like hell for them to come
out on the short end. “(Davidson’s) a good team. Forty-eight hours ago they were in overtime with (N.C.) State (a
1-0 loss). You just can’t play back to back OT’s against teams with athleticism. You’ve got to get it done
in regulation. If they had taken advantage of their opportunities, then they’d have wins against State (sixth in the region)
and Greensboro (fifth).” In Raleigh on Monday, the Wildcats outshot the Wolfpack (6-2-1) 14-13 in regulation play. But State dominated
the extra period, outshooting Davidson 13-0 and winning on Stephanie Sanders' rocket with just over four minutes left in the
extra period. “We learned we can compete,” defender Kelly Schmidt said, “but we don’t want to just compete anymore. We
want to win and we can. We know we can.” The team came home Wednesday to battle UNCG (8-2). In
the 29th minute of play, Amy Kanoff wrapped a corner around the front post. Spartan goalkeeper Paula Domitrovits mishandled it,
and the ball dropped in for a 1-0 Wildcat lead. It looked like Davidson was going to hold on for
the win, but Spartan striker Ali Lord had other ideas. Off a pass from Raila Maisonlahti in the 75th minute,
she dribbled a defender, cut back in a crowd at the six, and knotted the score at one with a
bullet past Wildcat keeper Allison Noznesky. In the 113thMinute, Kim Rosenberg deflected Joy Scott’s shot, slipping it by Noznesky. Thirty
seconds later, Lord got behind the Wildcat defense and finished her second goal of the night. Katie Kantanen completed the
scoring in the 117th minute, punching the ball into an open net after Melissa Moser and Noznesky collided chasing down
a loose ball. “We’ve played two top 25 teams into overtime in three days. I want to be in that
position. But in neither case does the result show the play in regulation,” coach Kevin Hundley said after the Greensboro
game. “We must learn what it takes to step up and win a game like this. One of our goals
was to beat a top 25 team, and we struggled the first two (Clemson and Maryland, both 4-1 defeats) because
we fell behind. We learned from that, and we’ve improved since then, but to win at that level you’ve got
to do something else. You’ve got to score some goals,” he stated.

They traveled to Georgia (7-3, eighth in the region) on Friday for another tough game. Again the Wildcats were unable
to pull off the upset, falling 1-0 in overtime. “Against Georgia, as opposed to the other two where we were
unlucky not to have won, we defended the whole game. Allie (Noznesky) had one of her best games ever to
keep us at 0,” Hundley said.

But Davidson took out their frustration on visiting conference foe Tennessee-Chattanooga (2-8, 0-4) on Sunday, outshooting the Moccasins 43-0 and
winning 6-0. “Our focus turns to conference now. We want to win,” Hundley said. “It’s like I told the team
before the game, this could be nothing but a win. We had to win. Whether it was ugly or a
work of art, whether it was by one goal or ten.”

Ginny Dye started the scoring for the Wildcats, getting her fourth game-winner in the 11th minute. She added another goal
in the 31st minute. Leila Wormuth (45th minute), Kelly Rennick (52nd), Rhina Roberts (80th), and Jennifer Scott (83rd) scored the
other goals. “We feel confident that we can go for all wins after this,” Roberts said after the UTC game.
“We're really focusing on conference play right now.”

“The thing I got out of these games is that I have no question of our character,” Hundley said of
his team. “To come back and play each game at the same level even after the disappointment is a huge
plus, and it’s not something you know until you get into battle. In Georgia’s program it said ‘Davidson, who plays
everyone tough.’ That’s still true. We’re not going to roll over for you even if we get down, and that’s
all I can ask. Hopefully we’ll get some breaks and win one of these games,” he added.

They’ll get another chance on Wednesday when Mecklenburg County rival UNC Charlotte comes to Richardson Field.

Pastel challenges best at the ITA Clay Court Tourney
By Kerry Bropuy
Staff Writer

Junior Jon Pastel, last year's Southern Conference tennis player of the year, challenged the nation’s top college players at the
ITA National Clay Court Tournament Sept. 14-29 in Baltimore. Pastel’s outstanding performance in the tournament began when he beat Samford's
Peter Calitz in three sets. His winning streak continued as he defeated UNC's Tony Thomas in another grueling three-set victory.
Pastel’s next challenge was Illinois' Cary Franklin, whom he topped in straight sets. A fourth-round win took him into the
main draw of the ITA tournament.

Pastel’s success continued in the main draw when he bettered Notre Dame's Jakub Petrowski. His run came to an end
against a Mississippi St. player from France, who proceeded to the tournament finals. Pastel’s presence in the main draw placed
him among the top 16 collegiate clay court players in the tournament. His showing capped off an exciting summer during
which he beat top players from Harvard, Dartmouth, Colgate, Princeton, and Florida St. at the ITA tournament held in Princeton,
NJ.

According to fall results, Pastel ranks 19th in the region, but his standing has most likely improved to as high
as tenth. “I think the combination of his summer experience and this recent tournament put him in contention for an
outstanding 1996 season,” said head men's tennis coach Jeff Frank. Indeed, Pastel sustained some tough three-set matches against the nation's
elite. Pastel’s stamina was even more impressive than his notable wins, considering he suffered from Patellar Tendinitis throughout the event.
