THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1996

Ernest Jeffries joins Dean of Students staff
ALEX OBERGON Staff Writer

One of the newest additions to the Dean of Students office this semester is Ernest Jeffries. A Jonesville, S.C. native,
he has joined the Davidson College staff as Assistant Dean of Students and Director of Minority Student Programs.

Jeffries was educated at the University of South Carolina, where he received an undergraduate degree in Music Education, and later
his Master’s degree in Education, concentrating in College Student Personnel Services. After completing his education, Jeffries went on to the
University of Tennessee at Knoxville where he took the post of Residence Life Coordinator. He then went on to Western
Carolina University where he was Director of Minority Student Affairs, and assistant to the Vice-Chancellor of Student Development.

As Assistant Dean of Students, some of Jeffries’ responsibilities include being part of the Judicial Committee and coordinating the Tutorial
Program as well as being a member of various committees that deal with issues concerning student life at Davidson. As
the Director of the Minority Student Programs, he advises the Black Student Coalition, organizes the Peer-mentoring and Pre-Orientation Programs for
first-year students, and does workshops on race relations and diversity for the Residence Life Staff.

Jeffries was attracted to the position because he was “impressed with Davidson as an institution,” and saw the job to
be challenging and beneficial to his intellectual growth. He believes he has a lot to offer to Davidson and its
students. Jeffries has only been a part of the Davidson community for three months, but during that time, has enjoyed
the closeness of the community and the family-type atmosphere. Jeffries and his wife and daughter hope to remain at Davidson
for now and the near future.

* Have people to see and places to go. Write for The Davidsonian. We miss you, Booby!

Students will replace graduated seniors on trustee committees
By Kirsten RECKNAGEL News Editor

Davidson’s Student Government Association (SGA) is looking for a few good students. Two students are needed to serve as student
representatives on two Trustee Committees, positions SGA President Warren Buford calls “the highest level of student representation.”

Recently, students serving on Davidson College Trustee Committees voiced student concerns and opinions concerning the formation of Davidson’s new alcohol
policy, plans to create the new Life Science Building, and the decision to raise the floor in the Baker Sports
Complex arena. Currently, one student representative serves on five of the Board of Trustees’ seven Trustee Committees, which include committees
for Institutional Advancement, Athletic Policy, and CCRL.

Last year, two student representatives on Trustee Committees were seniors. Now that Missy Graves, who served on the Admissions and
Financial Aid Committee, and Katherine Hash, Building and Grounds student representative, have graduated, their positions remain vacant and must be
filled before the next Trustee meeting on October 3.

“We were given the privilege [of serving on Trustee Committees] two years ago,” says Buford. “We want all students to
have a say in who represents the student body.... This is such an important position that we feel campus-wide elections
would be the best means toward that goal.” These campus-wide elections are scheduled for January to coincide with elections for
SGA President and Vice President. In the meantime, however, replacements are needed to provide Trustee Committees with student input this
October. In the interest of continuity, student representatives chosen by the SGA on September 24 will also attend Trustee Committee
meetings on February 3. Buford explains that the posi-The corrected OCR text is as follows:

---

tion involves “meeting for roughly two hours on October 3 and then for two hours on February 3. Students should
expect that a representative will actively voice his or her opinions as well as those of the student body.” “If
approved [by the Senate], those two students will be student representatives to the Trustee Committees. Their tenure will expire after
the February 3 Trustee meeting,” states Buford. Students interested in serving on either the Admissions and Financial Aid Committee or
the Building and Grounds Committee must sign up by September 19 in the Dean of Students’ Office. A five-member SGA
Selection Committee will interview each candidate before nominating one student for each committee to the Senate on September 24.

All students can create web pages this year

By Brad CHASE
Staff Writer/Web Manager

To the delight of many, and confusion of some, Information Technology Services will offer students a chance to make their
own personal web pages this fall. Students who have played around on Netscape have certainly come across quite a few
web pages, varying in content from weather, news, sports, and almost every imaginable topic including politics and homebrewed beer. Soon,
all students will be able to make their own web page and presence on the Internet—but not quite yet.

Lydia Lorenzin, Coordinator of Academic Facilities and Services, sums up the process like this: “Students will create their HTML documents
and save it in their Pollux accounts. They will then send a message to a specific person stating that they
realize their homepage is covered by the Acceptable Use Policy and Code of Responsibility. Within a few days, there will
be a link from the Student Homepages page.” Lorenzin continues, “Any controversy over pages will be referred to the Dean
of Students’ Office and handled through regular judicial process. Students also can’t use their pages for commercial endeavors or violate
copyright laws.”

By next week, sheets detailing the process of creating a web page will be available in all of the computer
labs and from the Help Desk in Chambers. The main concern among students appears to be a lack of knowledge
of HTML, or hypertext markup language, a basic language of the Internet. However, Ralph Morehead, a sophomore, is optimistic about
the whole process. “Sounds good to me,” he says, “I’d have to learn to program [HTML] first.” Matt Pfeiffer and
Jessalyn Salter express similar concerns. “I don’t know what [webpages] do, but I’d like to learn,” Salter says. Pfeiffer adds,
“After I go to a workshop I’m all over it.” Workshops on HTML will be offered throughout the fall semester,
so interested students who don’t have an understanding of the Internet or programming should not worry.

As the dorms become networked and students are given access to Netscape from their dorm rooms, demand for and use
of web pages is expected to increase dramatically.

Hey, freshmen! Be careful on first night down. Don’t act stupid. And don’t eat at Prime (they have fatback)—go to
the Project Life spaghetti dinner at the Outpost.

104 South Main Street
Davidson, North Carolina
896-7743

Open 7 Days
Breakfast Daily Until 11:30
Mon-Wed 8-8
Thurs, Fri & Sat 8-9
Sunday 9-8

THE SODA SHOP
Est. 1951

A Short Cut To Beauty
1-Shorter drying time
2-Shorter product use
3-Shorter salon visits

We carry Aveda products.
AVEDA.

We Could All Use a Little More Savvy

Norman Crossing Shopping Center
Exit 28 off I-77, Cornelius
895-0404

“A SALONS Center”
