THE DAVIDSONIAN  
MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1996

11

The Davidsonian  
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Arts & Living Editor  
JOHN COPENHAVER

Executive Editors  
EMILY SIMMONS  
GREG GARRISON  
MARY CLARE JALONICK

Assoc. Arts & Living Editor  
SUSAN RUGGIERO

Business Manager  
CAROLINE BYNUM

Associate Editor  
TERESA WHITE

Sports Editors  
WILL BRADSHAW  
BETH BACON  
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL

News Editor  
MICHAEL KRUSE

Advertising Managers  
MEREDITH LUCIUS

Associate News Editor  
RANDY HARTWELL

Photo Editor  
BEN DeLISA

Circulation Manager  
McNEIL CARSWELL

Opinions Editors  
NINA BLOUNT  
CARRIE BLACKBURN

Copy Editors  
CLAY LENHART  
KRISTEN RICHARDSON  
JILL WILLIAMS

Web Page Managers  
BRAD CHASE  
DANIEL MOTZ

Founded in 1914  
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

LETTERS

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:  
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Freedom and Diversity

And so you are here. You looked at your father or your mother last Spring, and you said — this is it; this is where I want to be. And now, so fast, good-byes are said, and you are left here. You may be thinking: oh God, why did I choose this or oh God, I love it here. You can bet on one thing — your attitude will frequently change.

You have chosen a small Southern college. This means that you will not be recognized by standing up and sitting down at your graduation — you’ll walk across the stage one by one. You have a chance at a leadership position. You’ll be friends with your professors. You will know most of the people you pass in the hall, and they will know all about you — often more than you think.

The Southernness of Davidson also implies a lack of diversity, and this is unfortunate. It is no secret that Davidson has a low percentage of African-American students and relatively no Hispanic students. As college students learning to open our minds, we are not given access to a true cross-section of cultures and races, income levels and backgrounds. But let us work with what we have.

Many times rhetoric focuses on numbers, and complaints fail to look beyond the surface. We yell about the lack of black faces, but we fail to look in the eyes of those who are staring at us. Students complain about the lack of diversity, saying, “In a larger school many different types of people inhabit the campus, and therefore thoughts and ideas are more freely expressed. Here at Davidson everyone thinks alike.” On the surface this statement might seem true, but if you dig, if you question, and if you talk long enough to someone, you’ll soon find out what a diverse place Davidson can be.

When students complain about the lack of diversity at Davidson, it’s often ironic. It’s not diversity they seek, but rather sameness. When they are looking for diverse members of a student population, they are often searching for people different from the majority, but like themselves. The search for diversity should be a search for those unlike you whom you can learn from and respect.

So, yes, you are abandoned here. You are truly alone and among people who can teach and show you things undreamt of before. And those people may be wearing khakis and baseball caps — or maybe not.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students.of Davidson College. Each student may have one free copy. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Welcome

To the Editors:

To all those returning, welcome back! Hopefully, your summer was enjoyable and you are now ready for another year at Davidson. To the class of 1997, congratulations on the accomplishments of the past three years and those forthcoming. We are proud to be part of that group and anticipate a positive senior year. To the class of 2000, we are excited that Davidson chose you and that you accepted the offer. We are looking forward to working with you as the year unfolds. As seniors, we are pleased to see such a talented class enter Davidson. We are comfortable in the knowledge that you will lead Davidson into the next century. To the new faculty, on behalf of the students, welcome to Davidson. We will enjoy getting to know you as classes begin and orientation ends.

As the president and vice president of the Student Government Association, we are bound both by duty and delight to represent students to the administration, faculty, staff, and community of Davidson. Joining us in that task is a senate of thirty members, committee members, and others who volunteer to help. We reach out to hear the student voice, inform students of issues, address student needs, and propose solutions.

Last semester, we set out to do just that. From January to May, the SGA addressed several important issues. Some of them, we were able to resolve. Many students welcomed the addition of academic minors to Davidson when the faculty kindly adopted a student proposal in April. Through our Student Advisory Council, we pushed for needed changes, such as a second phone line in the senior apartments, new paths and lighting around campus, and late-night Cat Card access to Chambers and the Martin Chemistry Building. We are grateful to all students and staff who helped us achieve these enhancements for students. In addition, we organized an extensive polling project, called Dorm Storm, to gather student opinion. Resulting from that were discussions about the needs for improvement to the 24-hour computer room and a more frequent rides program for students who wish to go to Charlotte or neighboring towns. Both of these are top priorities as we begin this year.

Through our many committees and councils, we have also discussed other exciting issues and will continue to do so this semester. It is important to us that our agenda is set by the student body, so we rely heavily on student input. The SGA office phone number is X2147.

Warren Buford
SGA President

Clair Freeman
SGA Vice President

Get your parents to ... Subscribe to The Davidsonian - mail a $35 check to: P.O. Box 219 Davidson, NC 28036

Get your T-Shirt for the low bargain reduced price of $9.99 with subscription. Look cool. We swear.