THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

Kristopher, and Danny Senior.

The Jettons were recently chosen as the family for Davidson’s Habitat for Humanity project. Students are encouraged to come and meet them during the house-raising ceremony on Sunday, February 10. The Jettons, from left to right, are Danny Junior, Joey, Etheleen, and Danny Senior.

Bill Giduz

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1996

By Andrew Preston
Staff Writer

Last week, the Patterson Court Council (PCC) elected a new president, John Cowan, who will work with both the Court and the Administration to try to create a better social life for Davidson students.

Cowan was elected PCC President by the Council consisting of the presidents of each fraternity and eating house. Cowan previously served on the council “because all of the presidents of the various houses asked me to be a member,” and says he was not surprised in being elected.

“I had expressed interest in the position and was approached by the former president [Steve Shames], who encouraged me to run.” As president, Cowan’s goal is to “organize and unify the Court, as well as the community.”

Currently, the Council is developing a Judicial Board to deal with problems that occur on the Court. The Council also created a Strategic Planning Committee, which Cowan says will “look at other schools and see how they deal with problems such as alcohol policies.”

Cowan also hopes to improve relations between the community and the Court, as well as with independent students. The PCC is trying to create a Community Service Committee which would coordinate service activities that the entire Court could participate in.

Independents will also have more control over the social life of the Court, as two independent students will be members of the Council for the first time. Cowan says that “the Court is more well-rounded. We’re not pro-anything. I feel we have a very objective view on the social life at Davidson.”

Although Cowan realizes that his hopes may fall short of what happens in reality, he sees the PCC as a vehicle to establishing a “healthy social life at Davidson, which is especially important because of the stressful academic schedule that Davidson students endure.”

Students pool resources to help

Sociology and Spanish majors work together to help low-income Hispanic families

By Brooke Bagwell
Staff Writer

This semester an internship is being offered between Davidson’s Spanish, Sociology, and Medical Humanities departments with the Cabarrus Family Residence Program in Concord. The internship is headed by Dr. David Adams, Research Director at the Residence Program and a consulting associate in the department of community and family medicine at Duke University.

Adams, currently a visiting assistant professor at Davidson in the Medical Humanities department, has developed the internship centering around a field of study and analysis of health care in low-income Hispanic areas of Charlotte.

Under the direction of Adams, the interns investigate the conditions of Hispanic communities, most of whom are living in trailers.

Most of the communities consist of 30 to 40 trailers with an average of five to six people living in each. The residents are mainly young families who immigrated to the United States from Mexico and Central America and have ended up in North Carolina seeking work.

You would love us if you knew us.
Write for The Davidsonian
Call Catherine, Katie, James, or Will. -2148

Social workers are concerned about their ability to adequately find and receive health care, for most know little English.

The 12 Davidson students and six University of North Carolina at Charlotte students that participate in the study meet every Sunday at the designated site of study. They then organize into groups of two, interview and observe the inhabitants. The interviews are done in Spanish by one group member while the other observes the surroundings.

As an interviewer, Steve Albert says that the internship provides an excellent opportunity “to develop Spanish and conversational skills.”

The interns are responsible for conducting an extensive questionnaire which will provide them with a broad range of information concerning the area’s living conditions and the trailer community’s physical and societal needs.

The main focus, however, deals with health issues and the relative accessibility of health care to the Spanish-speaking community.

With the help of Nurse Practitioner Cris Eudi and Physicians Assistant Lori Leymour, Adams acts as a medical sociologist, supervising the students. Adams collects medical data such as samples of blood sugar levels through random glucose screenings, checks on resident blood pressure, and dental conditions.

At the end of the afternoon, the group returns to the Cabarrus Hospital, where the residency program is based, to record and analyze data. Adams then instigates a lecture discussion on health, medical issues, tropical medicine, and its relevancy to the Hispanic immigrants.

“The hope is that the data we collect can be used to instigate some sort of primary care initiative for the people in this and similar areas,” he says.

Overall, junior Sociology major Kathryn Harker, a participant in the program, says, “The program is a great hands-on experience that provides an important and in-depth view of a needed community service.”

International Photo Contest

(entries must have been taken outside of the U.S.)
bring all entries to the Carolina Inn

two categories will be judged: color and black and white

will accept both mounted and unmounted entries

DEAN RUSK PROGRAM IN INTERNATIONAL STUDIES

1st prize: $75
2nd prize: $50
3rd prize: $25

(Room 201) by February 13, 1996