~OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1996

Brian Francis Alexander’s “Rising, Shining America”

The citizens of New Hampshire and Iowa can now return to their normal lives, having performed the quadrennial function of whittling down the field of presidential candidates. The field, eight strong just two weeks ago, is now composed of three: Bob Dole, Pat Buchanan, and Lamar Alexander. Most Americans are familiar with Dole, in his third presidential campaign, and Buchanan, in his second. The voting public has formed opinions about these candidates, and for many, those views are negative. Dole’s inability to achieve his very modest goals of receiving 30% of the vote in Iowa and winning New Hampshire by any margin indicate his lessening popularity. Buchanan’s isolationist, and sometimes prejudiced, rhetoric plays well with only a minority of Republican voters and repulses most mainstream conservatives. For these and other reasons, many Americans have decided to examine Lamar Alexander as a possible candidate.

While many already have discovered Lamar and his vision to lead the nation into the 21st century, others are still trying to learn about the man and his beliefs. For those just discovering Lamar Alexander, I would like to share with you Lamar’s background and his vision. Lamar Alexander served two terms as governor of Tennessee. During that time, he balanced eight consecutive budgets while maintaining the nation’s fifth lowest tax rate. He recruited companies such as Saturn and Nissan, thus creating jobs by changing Tennessee from a state which had never produced a car into the nation’s third largest automobile producer. These economic policies helped Tennessee create twice as many jobs as the national average.

Lamar also served as President of the University of Tennessee and Secretary of Education in the Bush administration. He created a child care business that now employs over 1,200 workers. Lamar Alexander balanced his service in Washington with governance in Tennessee, and work in the business and academic worlds. Experience is an important quality for any candidate seeking the presidency; however, vision and ideas are equally desirable. Lamar Alexander’s commitment to fiscal responsibility, internationalism, and the power of the American people make him the candidate of hope and promise with the ideas to improve the lives of all Americans.

Josh Roberts

Stop the whining

“Ugh, I have so much work to do.” Gee, there’s a phrase I have never heard before. It is often followed up by something like, “I have eight papers, five reviews, and three problem sets due tomorrow, and I haven’t started any of them.” Davidson students have mastered the art of complaining about their workload. The biggest problem with this is that they practice this art on other Davidson students. It is rather useless to complain about all the work you have to do to someone who has just as much, if not more, work. Yet, not a week goes by without overhearing someone’s long, drawn-out list of torturous tasks they have yet to accomplish. This is most definitely one of my biggest pet peeves about Davidson. I really do not care to hear about all the work you have to do. I understand completely what you are going through because I, like every other Davidson Wildcat, have been there, too. If sympathy is your goal, this is the wrong way to go about attaining it. How can I really sympathize with you when I am busy worrying about how I am going to research my psych term paper when the library closed half an hour ago?

Using extra-curricular activities as an excuse is equally weak. Every student seems to be involved in some club, activity, or sport. After all, twenty percent of Davidson students play a varsity sport. If you think you are the only one being picked on by your professors, you’re wrong. Everyone here gets picked on indiscriminately. I especially dislike it when people complain when it is their own fault that they have so much work and so little time. We students like to watch our Must See TV, attend women’s basketball games, run to the Union, and so on. We do everything we can to put off our projects until the very last minute. Procrastination is not a good thing, but it almost inevitably occurs. When it does, please do not come crying to me about all that you have to do before five. Just be a big girl or boy, dive in, and get it done.

The next time someone asks how much work you have, just say, “I am a Davidson student” and then refer to our rating as the school with the second heaviest workload in the nation. Instead of wasting energy griping, channel it. Whip through that chemistry problem set, or burn it off by reenacting Self-Selection Night in the library. And realize that going to Davidson andHaving an insane workload go hand in hand. Investment in Tennessee, creating high-skilled, high-paying jobs. His trade beliefs also benefit the people of America by opening foreign markets to American goods. The Saturn cars made in Tennessee will now be sold in Tokyo. Like many Americans, Lamar sees the burden placed on American society by illegal aliens. However, contrary to some of the party’s extremists, Lamar realizes that this nation benefits from the contributions of legal immigrants. He feels that by controlling illegal immigration, prejudice against all immigrants will be lessened. Only through a policy of free trade and openness to others.

Finally, Lamar supports the continuation of college loans as outlined in the Republican balanced budget proposals. Contrary to White House claims, the proposal would increase money for college loans by 50% over the next seven years. By exercising fiscal responsibility, Lamar Alexander will reduce the burden of massive debts and higher taxes which await our generation. Perhaps Lamar Alexander’s most exciting idea, and the most important of his campaign, is returning responsibility to the states and the people. For instance, Lamar laments the recent welfare reform bill, which replaced Democratic federal regulations with over 800 pages of Republican regulations. He realizes that Washington cannot adequately reform welfare, because solutions for Washington, DC, or New York do not always work in North Carolina. He thinks that the states should have the flexibility to solve their unique problems with their unique solutions. Lamar also recognizes that local groups can better serve their neighborhoods than the federal government. He would provide a tax credit up to $500 for contributions to charitable organizations, allowing the money to be injected straight into local communities rather than being sent to Washington. This principle rests on the sound assumption that $500 given to the local soup kitchen will feed more people than the same amount of money thrown into the federal bureaucracy. Lamar will help shape an America where we expect more from ourselves and less from Washington, DC. The Republican nominating process comes to the South in the next two weeks. Voters have three choices: the status quo, change based on fear and anger, or change based on hope and promise. Lamar Alexander is the candidate of hope and promise with the ideas to improve the lives of all Americans. I invite you to “come on along” and join the campaign with the vision to restore America’s prosperity.

-Brian Francis is co-chair of Students for Lamar!

Rob Vogelbacher

The meritorious keg

The passing of the keg. Certainly, this devastating news brought many a tear to the eyes of Davidson students, faculty, and alum who enjoy sipping a cold beer in a non-threatening social environment. The keg, indeed, holds a certain esteemed place in the hearts of the Davidson community, as well as colleges and universities the world over. The self-study proclaimed, “The college should ban the use of common containers, including kegs, for any student social function on campus.” Outlawing the beer barrel on the court will surely reduce the college’s liability, appeasing the insurance agents sipping their Zima and Bartles & James. I only hope that they have weighed the consequences of ridding this common and convenient method for dispensing ale.

Kegs inspire academic and intellectual growth. So much of what we study here at Davidson is embodied in the concept of the keg. As a matter of Economics, the purchase of kegs demonstrates a comprehensive knowledge of students trying to apply such principles as supply and demand, cost-benefit analysis, and smart investing. Chemistry and Physics virtually flow from the keg’s tap — giving direct examples of the Ideal Gas Law, Bernoulli’s Principle, and Chemical Equilibria. One can barely comprehend the Math wrapped up in the keg: adding, multiplying, and deducing the numbers representing people served, beers remaining as well as conversions between ounces, quarts, and gallons of alcohol. Many have found Religion while pumping the plunger of a keg. The big, silver barrels also have played the role of matchmaker to many longing for a significant other. Cupid’s arrows have pierced students’ hearts as they wait in line for their beer, eyeing the girl they’ve seen in class, too scared to speak, the guy they’ve seen down at Baker trying hard to improve that physique. It is doubtful such romances are kindled across a frosty mug of Busch Light Draft.

Athletics will also be severely affected by the keg’s extinction. Keg softball, a virtual institution, will never be the same. Running the bases isn’t as motivating when all that awaits at second are some warm cans of Pabst Blue Ribbon. Such Rugby mainstays as “shooting the boot” and “naked keg tossing” will be replaced with seeing who can throw a bottle of Colt 45 the farthest. Certainly, something will be lost in the keg’s absence.

Possibly the most overlooked asset of the keg is its versatility. Kegs can be fantastic furniture additions. The aesthetically pleasing unfinished metal complements any decorative setting. Beer kegs are also great ballast for hot air balloons. Flying too low? Just toss a barrel over the side. The empties truly make great gifts. My roommate was pleased the day he found an empty keg in his bed. Possibilities abound with the money from the keg deposit. Davidson, speak up and fight back. Let’s save the keg and our right to drink from a common well. The time will come when we no longer have the opportunity to share beer with our brethren. We must savor what little time we have left.