2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS BRIEFS

Court limits wristband use

Because of rising expenses, the Patterson Court Council (PCC) has modified the wristband identification program for students attending parties on Patterson Court. Previously, students under the age of 21 received a different color wristband from those students over 21 at Patterson Court parties.

The PCC altered the wristband program so that only students over 21 will be given wristbands. This reduction still complies with the alcohol policy, and the new wristbands will be obtained from a beverage wholesaler who sells the wristbands at a reduced price.

Steve Shames, previous president of PCC, says, “We’re using much less expensive wristbands. The new PCC group will be making new recommendations on the policy. A lot of things we did worked on paper but did not necessarily work as well in practice.”

About the new policy, Beth Bell, the adviser to the Patterson Court Council, says, “Visually it still is a safe, reliable method for the officers to be able to identify who is over-age and who is under-age, and it still, when used in conjunction with PCC stickers, is a way to identify who is a member of the Court.”

The new Patterson Court Council will be able to examine the current wristband policy and determine if any additional modifications are necessary. — Amy Whitmire

Unopposed

from page 1

his expectations are high for the top positions uncontested in my time here.” Brown attributes the consistency of such unopposed election races to the “growing phenomenon of so many people being gone one semester or another,” to the reputation of the candidates running, and to students who are heavily committed.

He adds that “these people have not waltzed into office” and new positions.

The other candidates are excited as well that their races are already run. “I can now use the energy I would have used campaigning in my Co-Curricular Vice Presidency,” says Everett. “I’m very excited about being Reach Out President,” adds Brasfield.

All contested elections are being held today from 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. in Chambers and the Commons.

Davidson Outdoors will offer whitewater rafting trips throughout the semester.

MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 1996

Davidson Outdoors

Women’s Film Festival sparks thought

Movies bring faculty and students together to explore gender issues

By Lora Chavis
Staff Writer

Under the leadership of Letitia Campbell, the Davidson College Union Women’s Issues Committee seeks to stimulate thought and discussion through the Women’s Film Festival, beginning January 30th and ending February 8th.

Campbell hopes the festival will present Davidson students with some new angles on women as well as gender in general, race, and sexual identity.

The 13 films that will be shown represent ten different countries. They will cover topics ranging from lesbian love in The Incredibly True Story of Two Girls in Love to a nun’s love for Christ in the movie Therese.

The Union is presenting the film festival, and most of the films will appear in the 900 Room. However, many other factions have been involved in bringing the festival to Davidson.

Love of Learning contributed money in order to bring the film Daughters of the Dust, giving insight into an African-American experience.

Many of the faculty contributed time and effort as well. Professors will present movies and lead discussions.

The idea, Campbell says, is to “bring together students, faculty, and staff in a non-academic environment, but an intellectual environment at the same time.” She believes that film is a relatively unexplored medium on the Davidson campus and naturally leads people to discussion. Using film as a tool to spark thought seems like a natural choice.

FRIENDSHIP IN THE AGE OF AIDS

Love Auditorium
Wednesday, January 31, 1996
7:30 p.m.

DAVIDSON

Two friends, Joel Goldman and T.J. Sullivan. Members of different fraternities at Indiana University. Both went on to work for their national fraternities and had busy lives, never thinking that HIV or AIDS would affect their friendship. Recently, they learned that the face of AIDS could be their own, or that of a best friend. Their informative, moving, and humorous presentation is helping to shape a collegiate response to the HIV crisis nationwide. Their program will show you how to reduce your risks of contracting the deadly virus which causes AIDS and illustrate how to be supportive when one of your friends, brothers, sisters, or loved ones becomes HIV positive.

The Program

Sponsored By:
Residence Life Office
Patterson Court Office
Patterson Court Council
Union Speakers Committee
Dean of Students Office
Department of Athletics
Connor House
Rusk House