OPINIONS. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1996

Please entertain me by hearing these proposals which might improve life in the United States of America.

First, the voting process stinks. Nobody is satisfied, there are not enough candidates, and each vote isn’t worth doo-doo, right? Two separate elections with a runoff between the top two vote-getters would reduce this pessimism. In the first election, people could vote for anyone, regardless of their chance of being elected. For example, I like neither President Clinton nor Bob Dole. If I chose to vote in the initial election for Harry Brown, someone I prefer but realize will not win, I wouldn’t take a vote away from a candidate who could win. For all the Perot fans out there, you could vote your heart in the first election and then vote for either Dole or Clinton after you realize that your man will always come in third. In the second election, the vote would be more valuable because there would only be two candidates. The winner would automatically have a majority, and people could vote for their second favorite candidate instead of taking votes away from that candidate as occurs with one general election right now.

Second, we complain a lot about the environment, so let’s do something about it. Recycling is great, but it is expensive and laborious. Why not tax the hell out of items which are sold in difficult-to-recycle material? This would either encourage manufacturers to invent more environment-friendly products or provide enough money to recycle those items. How come beer manufacturers don’t sell beer in plastic containers? Maybe a tax on their use of bottles would encourage them to try using plastic. Also, we should increase incentives to recycle by taxing people who do not. This can happen at the grocery store, for example. By bringing in old 2-liter Coke bottles, a shopper would be exempt from the tax on the Coke product. Or, by recycling large bottles of beer, the price of the un-purchased beer would be significantly less. Besides shot-gunning, what is the point of beer in small cans or bottles anyway? Don’t we all prefer it in a glass? And have you heard of anything more ridiculous than pony bottles? Hmm, let’s see how much glass we can produce so that someone can drink a shot of beer and then open a new bottle. Larger, recyclable containers save a lot of material.

Next, our health is awful. People eat, drink, and smoke too much. The government already taxes tobacco and alcohol, but we should tax them even more. Now, don’t threaten me just yet. Anyone who uses tobacco shouldn’t. If you are willing to pay more in order to use tobacco, so be it. If you are not, you might just save your life. And as for us beer drinkers, if we recycle our bottles, we won’t have to pay much more. Actually, it might do us some good to gradually reduce our use of the bottle. The extra tax money could go to health care, mostly to pay for those with health problems related to their smoking habits. As it is now, healthy people pay more for non-healthy people, many of whom are smokers and alcohol abusers. If people have enough money to pay for these products after the tax increase, it follows that the rich are taxed more due to their preference for expensive goods, not by government force.

Finally, we are a fragmented society. We have made great strides in terms of attempting to put everyone on an even playing field, but we still have not broken many barriers. The reactions to the Rodney King and O.J. Simpson verdicts both show the extreme race-based division which destroys unity in this country. A mandatory year of service to the country, whether it be Peace Corps, the military, or civil service, would force people from all backgrounds to work together for the good of our country. Young men and women who have to complete this year of service between the impressionable ages of 17 and 25 might learn a lot from each other. We need to integrate all races, social classes, religions, and ethnicities to better understand each other. Learning from personal relationships is far better than Ricki Lake’s version of race relations. Soldiers in battle seem to connect and unite despite extreme differences in the interest of the country. It does not take an army united in combat for people to become united, however. If people from different backgrounds were forced to work together toward improving the country, don’t you think we could reduce violence based on race or creed? By better understanding the plights and aspirations of a diverse group of people, we could use diversity as a means for unity.

How does all this relate to Davidson? If Davidson is a microcosm of the United States, we share many of the same dilemmas. Look at how much material we waste each weekend at parties. We are forced to have a certain number of cans for each 21-year-old, and then we are ordered to pour the contents of the can into a plastic cup. If we must not use kegs, we should be able to drink the beer straight from the can and then recycle the can afterwards.The school could reward fraternities and eating houses which recycle, such as a reduction in fines or a ‘get out of jail free’ card in case they fail to register a party on time, etc. And how many times have we heard complaints about race problems here? Just walk into the Commons and you will see the divisions. Although classrooms and freshman halls attempt to unite a motley mixture, we have to admit this rarely happens. Perhaps mandatory community service during the freshman and sophomore years in small, diverse groups would improve race relations here. These ideas are not all mine, so don’t praise or blame me entirely for presenting them to you. Much of Latin America practices the policies of recycling, and if I am not mistaken, France uses the above electoral system. I believe that a trial run of these ideas for two years would reduce problems and increase the quality of life in this country. I would greatly appreciate comments from anyone concerning these ideas. I’m not too proud for nasty criticism, but unless you are Ross Perot or Ricki Lake, we should be able to debate in a polite way. We should all become more involved in the well-being of our country. My ideas might sound radical and scary, but I believe they are practical and sensible. Sometimes what is sensible is scary as well.

Greg Garrison

Fear and Self-Loathing in Cyberspace

You know, sometimes you might feel like you’re a tool, a goof, a socially inept individual. That’s okay — there’s a distinct possibility that you are. If you find yourself feeling this way, and you know that other people feel the same way about you, I can offer you a few ways to overcome these feelings of self-loathing. Now, at this point you may be saying, “Stop right here, Greg. You always make a joke out of everything, and there’s nothing funny about my self-deprecation.” This may be true, but there is plenty that’s funny about other people’s self-deprecation. It’s okay — take a look around and laugh. As your parents have surely said, if you’d only think about others once in a while, you might be a little better off, wouldn’t you?

One way to feel better is to become active in “raising the community’s consciousness.” Do something like putting signs that read ‘Hunger Affects Everyone’ in restrooms around campus. There’s nothing like reading such a profound message while using the pisser to raise a wo/man’s consciousness and to make him/her glance around furtively every few seconds. Now, at this point I must say something to those of you who are reading this because you’re looking for an excuse not to study, rather than suffering from an icy, hateful stare, but that’s just their way of saying, “I won’t be able to check out pictures of naked sixteen-year-olds because I’m so embarrassed by someone looking over my shoulder, and my night’s ruined, but I love you anyway.”

This may seem like too much work, or you might not like taking stands on issues in public restrooms or anywhere else. My advice to you, then, is to check out the internet. If you’re a horny young wo/man and feel like you can’t alleviate this sexual tension with another person, the ’net has something for you too. If you don’t like your personality, the ’net has something for you too. You can create a whole new identity for yourself and get to know other people who have created whole new identities for themselves. Hell, you might even meet that special someone and be able to talk about “how I met Mr./Ms. Right online,” instead of the oh-so-boring stories that those of us who are well-adjusted have or will someday have. If you can’t find a mate, try an internet dating service. There are plenty of other heartsick people out there, and at least one of them will surely be lonely enough to accept you for who you are, don’t you think?

If you just don’t want to admit that junior high is over, you can go play a Dungeons-and-Dragons-type game and live in a fun little fantasy world comprised of wizards and demigods. Hot damn, wouldn’t that be fun? Finally, if you are in love with Barbara Streisand or Kenny G and don’t feel like anybody around here can identify with you, the ’net will provide you with hours and hours of joy as you find thousands of other sickos worldwide who share your taste in musicians. Now, you may try these or other options and still feel like you’re a dork, but take solace in the fact that there are plenty of other dorks at this school who feel the same way. Don’t blame me if you’re a loser. I can try my best to help you, but I’m not a miracle worker.