THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1996

Davidson-in-Mwandi program focuses on health care in Africa: An interview with Dr. Salvador Garcia de la Torre

On Thursday, November 14, 1996, Dr. Salvador Garcia de la Torre and his wife Mrs. Irma Garcia de la Torre
visited Davidson College. At an evening address in the Morrison Room of the College Union, Dr. Garcia spoke to students
and faculty about his experiences in Mwandi, Zambia, where he served as a missionary and medical practitioner for ten years.
The presentation functioned also as an impromptu informational session for the College’s ongoing “Davidson in Mwandi” program, a six-week summer
research experience under the direction of sociology professor Janet Shannon. The following is an excerpt from an interview conducted with
Dr. Garcia prior to his presentation:

Give life: Give marrow.

If you haven’t been typed, then you must do so. The process is simple, but the results can last a
lifetime.

Morrison Room, Tuesday and Wednesday 11 a.m. - 3 p.m.

Bill Giduz
Dr. Garcia de la Torre, with Davidson in Mwandi participant.

...Call care, but also access to basic educational and health care too.

Write for life. Write for Liberty. Write for the pursuit of happiness. Write for The Davidsonian.

Call John or Mary Clare at -2148

What were your objectives upon arriving in Mwandi and to what extent were they realized?

We tried to encourage more community participation. We didn’t want to be seen as paternalistic but rather as the facilitators,
those who encouraged the people to uplift themselves. The mission was established in 1886, but unfortunately, the French missionaries left
in the late 1960s because of the political situation in neighboring countries. When we arrived, there were no lights. We
literally had to depend upon candlelight for medical work.

We set up a 10-year development program. We were able to realize the establishment of many structures: a hospital, a
church, a learning center. We had a holistic approach in our mission work. We wanted to provide not only medical
care, but also access to basic educational and health care too.

What was your motivation for serving in such an economically disadvantaged region as Mwandi?

I always wanted to practice in rural areas, to serve underprivileged people. I set out to be a vehicle for
those in rural areas of Mexico, Haiti, and Zambia, who do not have access to decent medical care.

I believe it’s possible to provide and enjoy providing medical care in a very isolated place...

The Lozi (natives of Mwandi) are very poor. Their income is about $150 per year per capita... very poor. In
the Third World, when a doctor is involved, as in my case, you have to be more of an administrator
than a clinician.

How would you describe the current political climate in Mwandi?

Well, now, it is quite stable. The wars in Angola and Zimbabwe have ended, and the situation in Namibia (another
nation bordering Zambia) has settled down.

The whole of Zambia has been relatively stable since independence in 1964. The country has gone from Marxist to a
free market economy under President Chiluba. But the people are still very poor, still adjusting to the transition.

The standard of living has improved, though. The people are very receptive and appreciative. Our mission (funded in large part
by the Presbyterian Church USA) has given the people more confidence in themselves. They are more optimistic about the future
and see opportunities to grow using mission resources... I believe that will continue!

What can a Davidson student hope to gain from the Davidson in Mwandi program experience?

It is a tremendous opportunity to get in touch with what we always call “the real world,”... to work in
a very remote place, in a village setting away from the city, away from any source of distraction... to get
to know the people in their own environment and face the cultural differences, and find out that despite those differences,
it is possible to actively work together.

It’s been challenging, frustrating at times, to know a diagnosis and have no means with which to treat it... I’ve
seen Davidson students respond to these challenges. They understand the situation, learn to be more sensitive to the needs of
the developing world—I believe that’s the key. Coming back, they will appreciate and put more value in what they have,
what they see.

There’s no quick fix... our work will take a while. But the most important part is to understand the needs
of communities outside the U.S., especially in third world countries. Then, we become part of the solution... we find that
we do have something to give the people of Zambia: ourselves.

Thousands will see this ad!

Coming to The Sound Factory

Friday, November 22... National Recording Artists

Located one mile past UNCC on Highway 49 North

10008 University City Blvd. 549-0029.

$1.00 off with Davidson ID.
