THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1996

Students complain about voice mail at 911 site

By R. STEPHEN CEFALU
Staff Writer

The effectiveness of Davidson College’s 911 emergency phone system has recently been called into question by many students on campus.
In the September 23rd Davidsonian, sophomore Brent Gilbert described in a letter to the editor an experience in which he
activated an emergency callbox on campus and was only able to reach a voice mail system mailbox. Director of Campus
Police Ray Thrower describes Gilbert’s ordeal as a “freak occurrence” which was the result of a momentary technical malfunction within
the communication system set-up. However, many students have reached voice mail after dialing extension 2178, the campus police number. Callers
can press #1 to reach 911 in Charlotte, but cannot talk directly to the campus police.

Some years ago, campus police cooperated with the Davidson town police department in forming a joint dispatch service. Due to
a variety of complaints concerning the town dispatch’s level of efficiency, however, the campus police withdrew from the partnership and
in July of 1995 merged with the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department’s dispatch service. Thrower says of this transition, “It was very
cost-effective, and also satisfying in terms of the level of professionalism we encountered.”

Currently, a student placing a “9-911” emergency call reaches the Charlotte-Mecklenburg police dispatcher who then uses radio relay to immediately
alert campus police about the call. While emergency situations are the campus police force’s top priority, Thrower says they are
quite aware of the growing concern various students have voiced. “We are continually looking for ways to make students feel
more comfortable about contacting us with non-emergency requests.” Thrower acknowledges that students were generally more comfortable calling the former 892
prefix non-emergency number — the Davidson town police dispatch — than they are calling 911. “Some students feel intimidated calling
911 with non-emergency requests,” he says.

Accordingly, campus police will unveil a new non-emergency telecommunications system. The initial phase of the system installation project is already
operative and links emergency callboxes on campus to the cellular phone of the campus police officer on duty. “More changes
are in the works,” says Thrower, “we’re still working the kinks out right now, but know that there is always
a campus police officer available here 24 hours a day.”

Dean Rusk to hold four-day China conference

By ANDREW PRESTON
Staff Writer

Beginning this Sunday, a four-day conference will be held on Chinese participants. The three major speakers will be Ambassador Richard
L. Walker, former Ambassador to Korea, Dr. William C. Kirby, Professor and events organized by the Dean Rusk international issue.”
Past conferences have addressed World Hunger, the Soviet Union under Gorbachev, and the U.S. in the Post-Cold War Era.

Student Services contracted?

By ALEX OBREGON
Staff Writer

BTI Telecommunications Services, contracted by Davidson College for student long-distance telephone service use, is just one of the companies the
College subscribes to in order to provide students with better campus living. Because companies like BTI seem to have a
monopoly over the services offered to the student body, many students are concerned about the lack of competition which would
hold prices down and keep service high. To select companies to provide specific services to students livingOn campus, Davidson advertises
and sends out applications which list the criteria of the contracts under which companies will be hired; these companies, in
turn, place bids on Davidson’s contracts. BTI, whose contracts are now handled by the Information Technology Services, has catered to
the long-distance needs of Davidson College offices and dormitories for nearly five years. This summer, BTI signed a new two-year
contract with Davidson, replacing the previous six-year contract set to end next year. The new agreement was reached when North
Carolina’s 26 private colleges, including Davidson, jointly negotiated with several long-distance carriers for better rates. According to BTI’s plan, prices
would fall as more colleges contracted with the company. The large number of colleges which contracted BTI led to cuts
in long-distance service prices. Contracts offered to companies generally extended for three or four years. Recently, however, shorter contracts, like
the one recently signed by BTI, have been the trend. Less than ten years ago, students were not offered a
pre-arranged long-distance carrier and students arranged for long-distance service individually.

Davidson is addressing relations between the U.S. and China, organized by the Dean Rusk Program. The conference, sponsored by a
NationsBank grant, will address various issues involving China and the U.S. Ken Brown, Director of the Dean Rusk Program, says,
“we chose to have the conference on China because there are many current issues involving China ... that have implications
for U.S.-China relations.” Brown cites China’s rapid economic growth rate and the current situation in Hong Kong as two major
issues. The Dean Rusk Program’s Assistant Director Eleanor Hatcher adds that China was chosen because of “the fascinating differences between
the mindset and history of the Chinese and that of the U.S.” The conference will be held for four days,
and will consist of three key speakers and three panel discussions. Brown explains, “we have experts from all around the
country participating in the conference, from local people to as far away as California ... including the Chair of the
Department of History at Harvard, and Ambassador Chas W. Freeman, former Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs. The
panel participants will consist of other experts in the field, including Political Science Professors. The goal of the Dean Rusk
Program, according to the Dean Rusk mission statement, is “to increase understanding of international issues at Davidson and in the
neighboring community.” Eleanor Hatcher describes the event as a way to “concentrate all our energy on one topic.” Brown and
Hatcher note that many people were involved in coordinating the conference, including Deputy to the Director Kathie Faulkner, project coordinators
Mary Margaret Cochrane and Yasar Ishaq, and Professor Shelley Rigger.

SMOKIN’ STOGIES AT SIGMA PHI EPSILON - Senior Ben De Lisa with Biology Professor Grant at Sig Ep’s cigar smoking
event.

Amy Hawfield ‘96
Michele Carroll ‘96
Fred Hsuan ‘95
Robin Pepper ‘95
Sara Withers ‘95
Kamil Shaw ‘95
Chris Holder ‘95

ANDERSEN CONSULTING and Recent Davidson Graduates Mary Laura Moretz ‘96 cordially invite interested Davidson Seniors to an Information Session on
Thursday, October 17 at 7:00 P.M. in the Guest House.

Morgan Savage ‘94
Steven Shores ‘94
Meg Kendall ‘94
Bo Bassett ‘93
Janet Delery ‘93
Matt Gantt ‘92
Ned Carroll ‘91

Everyone Meets at Davinos on Wednesday Nights! Where are you? Wednesday Specials: All-you-can-eat Pizza and Spaghetti $4.95 Pitchers $4.00 &
Mugs $1.00
