_ SPORTS 14 MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 1996

By MICHAEL Kruse Staff Writer

Davidson (13-3, 4-0 in Southern Conference play) thoroughly annihilated Marshall (9-7, 2-3) 106-57 on Saturday night at the Henderson Center
in Huntington, West Virginia. The crowd of 7,136, Marshall’s largest home draw of the season, sat silently.

Men’s Basketball

Davidson has now won six straight and ten of its last 11. The 13-3 record marks the Wildcats’ best start
since the 1969-70 team began 14-2 under Terry Holland. The Thundering Herd, second place behind the frontrunning Wildcats in the
league’s North Division, was ESPN’s and Sports Illustrated’s preseason pick for conference champion. But, on Saturday, they looked like anything
but. Davidson controlled the tempo of the game, holding leads of 10-1 and 35-15 on its way to a 55-24
halftime advantage. The lead grew in the second half to a game-high 57 (99-42) on a Chadd Holmes putback with
4:24 left. The final 49-point margin represented the fifth-worst loss in Marshall history and the Herd’s worst ever conference defeat.
As Marshall head coach Billy Donovan said, “Davidson kicked our tails in for 40 minutes.”

Davidson shot 56% from the floor, including 72% in the first half, while Marshall converted 35.7% overall and 29% in
the first half. Davidson shot 39% from three, Marshall 24%. Davidson hit on 66% of its free throws, Marshall just
45%, as Davidson’s pressure defense shut down the conference’s most prolific offense and the nation’s third-highest scoring attack (92.8 ppg).
“We took it to their heart,” said Davidson head coach Bob McKillop.

In a total team effort, five Wildcats scored in double figures. Brandon Williams, who jumped to 20th on the career
scoring list with 18 points against UNCC, led all players with 23 points in 23 minutes (8-for-12 from the field,
3-of-4 threes), while Ray Minlend poured in 18, Quinn Harwood pitched in 16, Chris Alpert added 11, and Jeff Anderson
contributed 10 off the bench. Mark Donnelly had 9 as well, including 2-of-3 on threes. Seniors Alpert, Williams, Harwood, Anderson,
and Mark McGuire avenged defeats at Marshall the last two seasons.

Marshall’s Keith Veney, who leads the nation in three-pointers per game with 4.5, connected on just 1 of 4 from
behind the arc, managing 10 points, far below his 23.4 season average, and point guard Jason Williams scored 14, 11
of which came late in the second half. “The most gratifying aspect is that we did it on the road,”
said McKillop, “When you come into a place like this and silence the crowd, that’s an exhilarating feeling. It’s an
exhilarating experience to see the people leave with eight minutes to go in the game. Tonight was certainly as good
as it can get.”

Tuesday night’s effort at Appalachian State also yielded a decisive Davidson victory. After a sluggish first half, Davidson used an
11-0 spurt in the first 2:04 of the second to transform a 40-33 halftime score into a 51-33 advantage. Said
Mountaineer head coach Tom Apke, “It was frustrating. When they turned it up in the second half, we didn’t respond.
I thought the first five minutes of the second half was the game.”

The Wildcats coasted the rest of the way, at one juncture holding a 26-point lead en route to a 90-68
final. Ultimately, Davidson actually made more field goals (38-for-80) than Appalachian State (20-for-37) attempted. “We played two different halves,” explained
McKillop, “The level of intensity on the defensive end in the second half was what we hope for, what we
work for, what we expect.”

Alpert had perhaps his best all-around performance this season, scoring 15 points, 13 of which came in the opening half
when the Wildcat offense struggled somewhat. “I just felt the flow of the game and I knew I had to
knock them down and luckily I was able to do that,” Alpert said. He also recorded a season-best eight assists.
“He’s done it offensively, he’s done it defensively, he’s accepted his role, he’s played to the ultimate and he is
the real catalyst for what we’re doing defensively,” said McKillop, “He’s making some very good decisions with the basketball.”

Also for Davidson, Harwood scored 19 points, Williams and Ewodo each registered 14, and Minlend tallied 13. Mountaineer guard Tige
Darner scored a team-high 18 on the losing end.

After three straight road victories, Davidson returns to Belk Arena this week, hosting Georgia Southern (1-14, 0-4) tonight and Virginia
Military (8-5, 2-1) on Wednesday. The Wildcats then travel to Western Carolina (5-10, 2-2) on Saturday. All three games start
at 7:30 p.m., as Davidson attempts to continue its best start in 26 years.

Lee Sargent asked that all students remove their carsfrom the Baker parking lot a few hours before the games on
Monday and Wednesday.

Wrestlers plagued by injuries
Team fights to sixth in W&L tourney
By JOHN ROE
Staff Writer

Last weekend the wrestling team traveled to W&L to compete in a tournament and finished in sixth place.

The wrestlers continue to perform very well on the mat, but the team is still plagued by injuries. In the
first round of competition, the Wildcats advanced five wrestlers with pins, and in the semi-finals, Chip Stewart and Ben Wall
defeated their opponents to move to the finals. However, both Wall and Green lost in the final round and finished
in second place. Other place finishers included Christian Baker and Tom Greene who both finished in fourth place.

Although the team did not finish in the position they had hoped, with a few breaks here or there, some
of the matches they lost could have been wins. “Most of the losses were decided by less than two or
three points. One takedown in our favor could have changed the outcome of each of the losses,” said coach Tom
Oddo. “We wrestled very well, but we just didn’t have the numbers we needed to score enough points to compete
in this tournament.”

With Sean Harvey and George Escaravage out with injuries last week, and Tom Greene and Harvey out for this week's
matches, the wrestlers find it hard to do well as a team. This weekend, the team traveled to Longwood to
compete in the Lancer duels. Due to injuries, they again had to leave a few weight classes open.

Davidson alumnus leads Cobras into battle
By WILL BRADSHAW
Staff Writer

Professional lacrosse moved to Charlotte this year with the creation of the Charlotte Cobras of the Major Indoor Lacrosse League
(MILL), and Davidson alumnus Michael John Fresina (‘92) became the Cobras assistant coach. Fresina, a teacher and coach at Charlotte
Country Day, got the job with the Cobras when Joe Seivold, the head coach and a four-year all-American lacrosse player
at UNC-Chapel Hill, asked him if he would be interested in coaching.

“It’s a unique situation because neither of us has much experience in box-indoor lacrosse. But through film study and conversations
we have learned the game; it is very different than the outdoor game.” Field lacrosse has nine players plus a
goalie per side; however, the MILL has moved the game indoors, confining field space, reducing the number of players to
five and a goalie, and increasing the pace and violence of the game. “Things that are illegal in field lacrosse,
like cross-checking (hitting your opponent with the section of your stick that is between your hands) are not only encouraged
in indoor, but they are taught,” Fresina said.

At Charlotte Country Day, Fresina teaches 9th and 10th grade honors English, coaches football and lacrosse, and oversees the winter
weight-training program and the literary magazine. He was recently married to another Davidson alumnus, Lee Ayres. Fresina is a self-proclaimed
football man, but said he preferred coaching lacrosse because of the speed of the game, and the personal impact he
could have on his players.

“It is a transition game, and I like the pressure of preparing guys to play on the field for an
hour. I also like that in lacrosse I can really have a one on one impact with a kid. I
can’t put on pads and have an offensive lineman block me, but I can pick up my stick and play
with my kids and explain things to them. I enjoy the speed of the game and the improvement you can
see,” Fresina said.

The Cobras have struggled thus far, losing their first four games, but Fresina attributes much of this to inexperience with
the indoor game. Their losing streak continued Saturday as Baltimore ran past them 16-6 in Independence Arena. “We played like
crap tonight,” Fresina said, following the game. “We probably got another 25 minutes in penalties, and it was frustration that
put us in the box. Rather than fighting for ground balls and loose balls we just want to fight. It
would have been nice to beat them (Baltimore) at home, but we can beat New York (in their next home
match on Feb. 16).”

In Fresina’s sophomore year at Davidson he was very ill, and couldn’t play football so he took a job coaching
it at North Mecklenburg High School, and when Dave Fagg became the Davidson coach he hired Fresina to coach at
Davidson. “Coaching my friends at Davidson set me up to work with the Cobras,” he said. “Coaching older guys is
kind of a trial by fire because it is tough to gain (the players’) respect that is usually reserved for
someone much older.”
