6 THE DAVIDSONIAN ELSEWHERE MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1996

Goodall speaks to Davidson students in and out of class

from page 1

strength if the eagle is to fly correctly.” She added, “I think the women’s movement in many respects has been
good. We now have the right to vote and other such things, but some extreme women’s activism has gotten out
of hand.”

Goodall talked about riding in a squad car in South Central Los Angeles when starting a Roots and Shoots program
for a local school. The police told her that it had been a quiet day so far when after four
hours, there had been only three homicides. Goodall commented, “When speaking to the students, if I leaned more than six
inches to either side the microphone would screech. Teachers kept walking up and down the aisles, and I later found
out that they were looking for guns and knives. How can anyone ever imagine living like this?” Her humanitarian efforts
there resulted in 50 students joining her program. A play that was put on the next time she came marked
the first time in the school’s history that a group of students had jointly displayed their work.

Goodall responded to an inquiry on the debate between creationism and evolution. “I think there is definitely a higher power.
That’s where I get my motivation. I draw from it. I find it hard to believe that humans for all
these years have believed in God, and yet there’s nothing to it. Are they all stupid or something? There must
be a higher power. Louis Leakey and I agreed that there was absolutely no conflict between a coexistence of most
religions and evolution. I also believe in an afterlife,” she said.

Near the end of the reception, Goodall dumped a full grocery bag of donation money into the middle of the
floor and asked that everyone count it together. Those left found a comfortable spot on the floor and started counting.
“It follows with what I’m trying to do,” she later explained. “I just want everyone to be involved.”

Dr. Verna Case’s animal behavior class

Dr. Goodall answered questions for about 50 animal behavior students in a closed session before the lecture. Junior Adrienne Emmett
asked how she first got interested in animals. “I’ve loved animals since birth,” Goodall responded. “All I ever read was
books about animals. By the time I was nine I was in love with Tarzan and extremely jealous of Jane.”
She told of a time as a child when she sat in a hen house all day waiting to see
an egg laid. Later she commented, “Waiting and listening instead of figuring out quicker laboratory methods produces purer results.”

Goodall discussed the best way to go about conservation. “If you’re too confrontational, people won’t listen. Many people, especially in
Africa, are killing animals or cutting down trees to feed their families. We have to help and to educate them.
My going into some chimpanzee research laboratory and making extreme demands is like going to Auschwitz and telling them that
it’s inhumane. We must talk so that people listen.” She challenged the class to pursue projects at Davidson that would
benefit the environment, animals, and humans all at once. “Every one of us counts,” she said. She also expressed disapproval
at cold and impersonal science. “That’s why there’s been a drop-off in young people going into science recently... I’d rather
be known as a human being with feelings and a sense of humor. It hasn’t been a good day until
I’ve made someone laugh and someone else has made me laugh.”

Students came away from the class thrilled. Kelly Schmidt commented, “After I got over the initial shock, I was amazed
at how down-to-earth she was. She makes her life seem so simple. I can’t even put it into words. Listening
has increased my admiration even more.” Regina Marranzini added, “What really impressed me was her compassion. She wasn’t the cold
science type at all.”

At lunch with students

Most found Goodall’s discussion of Gary Larson, author of The Far Side, very entertaining. As Case recalls, “A lot of
scientists thought (Goodall) would be offended by Larson’s cartoon, but she thought it was hilarious. She seemed to admire him
a lot, and said he was shy and very down to earth. He’s also been to her research station in
Gombe.” The cartoon in question shows one chimp picking a blond hair...off the back of another saying, “Conducting a little
more research with that Jane Goodall tramp?” Senior Brandon Davis asked Goodall how she liked working with hyenas. “I actually
enjoyed it just as much as working with the chimps,” she replied. She added that she was forced to study
something besides chimps for two years because of the danger they posed to her infant son Grub. She told the
group that had she not studied chimps, elephants would probably be her next choice. Senior Kelly Ammann was curious about
a time in 1975 when guerrillas from Zaire took a few dozen civilians hostage near Goodall’s research station. Goodall admitted
to being very frightened and hadn’t minded when the Tanzanian government pulled her and her research crew out of Gombe.
At the press conference, one reporter asked Dr. Goodall, “What would chimps say to us if they could talk?” He
was greeted with a pause and a cold stare before she replied, “I don’t know. And it is because they
don’t talk that I don’t know.”

Beyond Davidson International...

Ethiopian airliner crashes during hijacking

At least 55 passengers of a hijacked Ethiopian airliner died last weekend when the plane ran out of fuel and
crashed in the Indian Ocean. More than ten hijackers allegedly commandeered the craft after it left Addis Ababa, Ethiopia’s capital.
The hijackers demanded the plane be flown to Australia. The flight was originally destined for Africa’s Ivory Coast.

Building explosion in San Juan kills 20

A building explosion in San Juan, Puerto Rico killed over 20 people last Thursday. Officials believe it was a gas
explosion that destroyed the building. The search for survivors was temporarily abandoned due to fear that the building might collapse.

National...

DNC contributions probe will expand

Officials in the U.S. Justice Department requested that the investigation into allegedly illegal contributions to the Democratic National Committee be
expanded. Many officials in the Justice Department want the FBI to conduct interviews with individual donors. The decision as to
whether to turn to an independent counsel or to hand the investigation to FBI agents lies with Attorney General Janet
Reno.

U.S. Military sexual harassment charges increase

Thirty-four female soldiers now have come forward, saying they were victims of some form of sexual misconduct at the U.S.
Army’s Aberdeen Proving Ground in Aberdeen, Maryland. Army officials say they have already suspended 20 soldiers, among them one captain,
in the wake of the charges.

U.S. Air Force Reserve plane crashes in the Pacific

A U.S. Air Force Reserve rescue plane crashed Friday in the Pacific Ocean. Of the 11 passengers, only one was
found alive as of Sunday. The plane experienced engine trouble while on a training mission and crashed 60 miles off
the coast of northern California.

Source: Charlotte Observer

Interested in the world outside the bubble? Help with the Elsewhere page next semester.

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Condensation
5 Family member
9 Effrontery
13 Unique thing
14 — mignon
15 Butterine
16 Rights org.
17 Inclined to one side
18 Car damage
19 Baby powder
20 Certain church members
22 Gung ho
24 Gun the engine
25 Champion
32 “That's —" (song)
33 Undercover agents
34 Fellows
36 Rocky crags
37 Underhanded
38 Fork over
39 Greek letter
40 Play section
41 Dress up
42 Facial features
44 Posh
45 Collide
46 Comic strip e.g.
47 Those escaping disaster
51 Let fall
55 Mona —
56 Principle
57 Excavation
58 Land of bliss
59 Fr. city
60 Summer coolers
61 Retreat
62 Sunbeams
63 Doan usher's job

© 1996 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All rights reserved.

ANSWERS
1. ic\-|olw > |< RS ic <i zlojisi<ia did kedied 8G ediod Oj jziwi> iz |wlolzMi<[-lo >lwlel< — |S /-
|e \<jac niti<|> fe SOHO OOGTES Oiwl ales stzlo|<Biw/z\olr ia\—|o}w! —|wlz; FS 2 J a lwial- Cjziwi< 0/2 \|> 10
Author Waugh - 11 Camera “eye” ‘ 12 Fate C/Olea\r- ia ic iwi in > i) oa olwiz]> AOSD OOSeEmo
AOD SAS o|ojc) =jwio ws (ei wl/Olg Ol<!ir iw a/<jO|wlio me ig) sl—|~ Mola l<iz |3|—jajajz 10 {<|r Z/0/<|r i
ae | | ij
