THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1996

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
MARY TOWLES ALLISON

Asst. Arts & Living Editor
MARY CLARE JALONICK

Photography Editor
TOSH GLAZER

Sports Editor
WILL BRADSHAW

Advertising Managers
BEN GRIFFIN
WHITE BONNER MEAD

Associate Editor
MICHAEL KRUSE

Assistant Sports Editor
CATHERINE ANDERSON

News Editor
CHLOE BROOKE

Copy Editor
CARRIE BLACKBURN

Cartoonist
NARESH NAGELLA

Assistant News Editors
SUSAN RUGGIERO
GREG GARRISON
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
JILL WILLIAMS

Web Page Manager
BRAD CHASE

Opinions Editor
KATIE McKELVIE

Business Manager
KATHERINE HASH

Arts & Living Editor
JAMES BERRY

Assistant Business Manager
CAROLINE BYNUM

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at: http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian.html

Softening the blows

Last Friday, March 15th, was the first day of Women’s Month events on campus. For the next three weeks, the
campus will be stirring with different events relating to the nature, struggle, and triumph of the woman. Christina Hoff Sommers’
“Who Stole Feminism?,” which “argues that, today, a group of illiberal feminist activists has been promoting an agenda of male
bashing, censorship and victim politics that sets women against men,” and “Take Back the Night,” which raises “awareness and understanding
about the tragedy of rape and dating violence through personal accounts by survivors” (Women’s Month flyer) are just a couple
of the significant events occurring on campus.

However, there is one potential problem. The title of one of the first major events, “Why Men Hit?: A Forum
on Male Responsibility” misrepresents the theme of the whole month. The brief reads: “One in four women will be abused
by a current or former partner at some point in their lives. In over 95% of domestic assaults, the man
is the perpetrator. With numbers like this, we have to wonder what is being done about domestic violence” (Women’s Month
flyer). From the information presented in the brief, the meeting appears to be about the devastating frequency of domestic violence;
yet from the title, it looks to be about men hitting men or puppies or appliances. And more to the
point, from the title, about 50% of the campus is implicated in carelessly violent behavior.

Undeniably, the presented statistics show men are 95% more frequently the abusers in domestic violence situations. But the mistake comes
in implying that all men hit, the unfortunate mistake of the title, “Why Men Hit?” If the title had been
“Why Some Men Hit?” or more accurately “Why 95% of Domestic Violence is Perpetrated by Men?,” then the stereotypical implication
would have been avoided. 95% doesn’t mean 100%. Although a large percentage is startlingly significant, an objective interpretation of the
statistics is warranted. If we allow a high frequency to represent the whole, dangerous stereotyping will result. The unjustified grouping
of one sex under a category — men under “abusive partners” in this case — polarizes the sexes. Arbitrary finger-pointing
starts, and statements like “all men are jerks” reinforce stereotypical assumptions about men, stymieing inter-sexual communication through fear and hatred.

In the effort to promote understanding and sensitivity towards women, the organizers have abandoned their understanding and sensitivity towards men.
Alienation, of either sex, is harmful. Gender studies, gender relations, imply that both sexes need careful attention. Both Davidson men
and women alike must guard against stereotyping the other sex. Without a high level of sensitivity and an objective viewpoint,
gender conflicts cannot be resolved successfully. Although placing so much importance on a misappropriately titled event seems hypersensitive, it hints
at a larger problem — a problem, which for the women’s movement to be successful, must be overcome.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address all
correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. E-mail address: Davidsonian@Davidson.edu. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors
or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year.
Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

55% Of Davidson’s Women And 85% Of Its Fraternity Members Claim That There Is No Sexual Harassment On Patterson Court

LETTERS

Court will not beTo the editors:

Since the Self-Study document on the “Quality of the Student Experience” was made public a few weeks ago, there have
been numerous concerns expressed about the recommendations concerning Patterson Court. More specifically, the concern of many students is that the
recommendation to ban common containers (including kegs) is the “beginning of the end” of Patterson Court. Some students believe the
administration and faculty intend to eliminate Patterson Court, and this is the first step. I hope to use this forum
to dispel these rumors.

Certainly, the recommendation to ban the use of common containers on the Court, in keeping with campus-wide policy, will change
the structure of parties. With every national fraternity banning such use and the double standard that we have created on
our own campus (kegs are banned in the residence halls), continuing the use of common containers puts the members, student
leaders, and the College at an unacceptable legal risk.

What will be allowed in place of kegs is being discussed now. For many campuses, a system of BYOB has
been the answer, but there may be other alternatives. The Patterson Court Council is working on this now, and, if
you have ideas, I urge you to discuss them with those leaders. I want to assure you that students will
be heavily involved in the discussion of alternatives. It will ultimately be the duty of the Committee on Campus and
Religious Life to make a recommendation to the President on this matter.

While it was the intent of the Self-Study Committee on the Undergraduate Experience to provide recommendations that will make the
organizations on Patterson Court more responsible, safe, and in alignment with their national affiliations (fraternities), these proposals were not intended
to signal the demise of the Court. In fact, with other recommendations that expand new member education and provide an
annual review of each eating house based upon community-accepted principles, it is my sense that the strength and contributions of
each house may increase, not decrease, as a result.

Finally, as the Dean of Students, I want to enhance, not diminish, the range of meaningful opportunities for students outside
the classroom at Davidson. We all know that the Court is an important social outlet for many of our students.
We must all work together — students, faculty, and administration — to ensure that the organizations on the Court operate
in a manner that is acceptable, supported, and appreciated.

Sincerely,
Tom Shandley
Dean of Students

---

Spach responds to flyers

To the Editors:

This week flyers appeared around campus with a hand-drawn picture of Jesus on a cross and the words “Follow the
HIP Commandment: thou shalt not BUG thy neighbor.” A couple of them were pasted over ads for the En Route
spirituality discussion group which my office sponsors. As chaplain of the college, I found these flyers provocative because they suggest
that at least some people here have been bothered by the religious ethos of the college, including whatever they perceive
to be promoted by the chaplain’s office. I was disappointed, however, that the flyers were unsigned, so I had no
idea to whom to respond about these issues.

I would like them to contact me personally because I want to address their concerns forthrightly. If they feel that
they are being “bugged” about religious matters by my office, or religious groups on campus, or the college in general,
I'd like to hear their concerns and take steps to change the situation. No one should have to feel that
they are being “bugged” about religion here. It is central to the mission of my office to try to make
Davidson a place where people of all different denominations and faiths — or no religious faith at all — can
find opportunities to explore and express their beliefs, have fellowship with others, and learn to appreciate and respect those from
whom they are different. I hope that whoever put up those flyers will get in touch with me so that
we can work together to make that mission a reality on this campus.

Sincerely,
Rob Spach
