12

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1996

Gaston supercharges 900 Room dance floor

By JAMES BERRY
Arts & Living Editor

Alas, the comedian expected for Saturday night sent only his regards in his place and thus, those who'd braved the
gauntlet of ice on the way to the 900 Room were greeted instead by the early, though not unwelcome, appearance
of Gaston. I soon discovered that saying the name with a thick and rather snooty French accent was entirely the
wrong approach when they were announced as originating from Gastonia, SC. Accompanying this realization was another insisting that they weren’t
very creative in the name department.

Moments before powering up the gear, one of the band members slid by my group as he made his way
to the stage. One of my friends could not help but whisper, “look, a walking disco ball!” Sure enough, the
sequined vest shone with heavenly intensity and allowed us only a short glimpse before we were forced to turn away
in bedazzled amazement. It’s a wonder performers don’t find that distracting while they’re on stage. A thousand flood lights rising
from my chest would only augment the deer-in-the-headlights effect.

Looking out into the surging crowd of three or four, the keyboardist made a mostly incomprehensible comment alluding to the
number of pretty girls in the audience as the drums kicked in and signaled the beginning of “Ladies Night.” Not
having much listening experience in the R&B quarter, I’m not sure how much of the set list was original material.
One of the few songs I did recognize was Prince’s “1999” which was carried off pretty darn close to the
original. At this point the dance floor was beginning to look crowded and the performers’ patter started to sound feasible.

Working from a fairly traditional palette of instruments including guitar, drums (both acoustic and electronic), and keyboards (which doubled as
bass), the four offered a full sound to go along with their songs. They also mixed in a trumpet here
and there.

The most inspiring part of the performance was the number of vocal parts that were used. Each of the four
had a microphone and, usually while playing an instrument, they were able to kick out some deadly harmonies or undercut
one melody with a second.

Rarely do Davidson students go out of their way to rock to-and-fro with a band but Saturday night was the
exception. Gaston filled the dance floor and kept it surging.

College Kitchen

Whip up and eat up “Famous Department Store Cookies”

By Ros Kosicki & Jay Shultz
Chefs-in-Residence

This week we decided to provide y’all with a dessert recipe, and before break we happened upon a great one
(thanks Dawson). The recipe, reputed to be worth $250, was forwarded to me on e-mail from a friend who will
remain anonymous, as will the famous department store (with the initials N. and M.) that has so graciously provided this
delicious concoction.

To make a long story short, some guy was ripped off by said department store and decided to get revenge
by putting the recipe on e-mail. So here it is. You will need:

2 cups butter
2 cups sugar
5 cups of blended oatmeal
1 tablespoon brown sugar
1 8 oz Hershey bar (grated)
2 teaspoons of baking powder
2 teaspoons of vanilla
4 cups flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
24 oz chocolate chips
1 teaspoon salt
4 eggs
3 cups chopped nuts

Cream butter and both sugars. Add eggs and vanilla. In a separate bowl combine flour, oatmeal, salt, baking powder, and
baking soda. Then combine with the mixture of butter, sugars, eggs, and vanilla. Add chocolate chips, Hershey shavings, and nuts.
Roll into balls and place two inches apart on a non-stick cookie sheet. Bake for 10 minutes at 375 degrees.
Sorry to those of you who already have this recipe, and to those who don’t, enjoy.

And remember don’t thank us, thank the poor guy who paid $250 for it.

Be A Sweet

Earn up to $200 a month by donating life-saving plasma!

Visit our friendly, modern center between now and Valentine's Day and earn $30 on your first visit and be eligible
for $500 in prizes in drawing. Valid ID with SS# required. 1551 Central Ave at Pecan. Charlotte, NC 28205 333-0335.
Hours: Monday-Thursday 6:30a-9p; Fri 6:30a-8p; Sat 7:30-6p; Sun 7:30a-4:30p

plasma alliance

"people helping people"
