2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

BRIEFS

Scarbo fills senatorial vacancy

Sophomore Mike Scarbo was sworn in as an independent senator during last Tuesday’s SGA meeting after being elected by student
government members to fill one of two vacancies in the SGA Senate. Scarbo, who also serves on the Union Board,
says he sees his senatorial position as an “opportunity for me to have more of a voice in the student
government.” Currently, one SGA independent senatorial position remains vacant.

SGA to investigate possible upgrade of 24-hour communications center

SGA President Warren Buford has formed an ad hoc committee, chaired by Junior Class Senator Saad Gul, to work with
the Computer Center in order to determine the possibility of improving the 24-hour communications center located in basement Chambers. Buford
says he would like to see 24-hour “access to a laser writer, copy machine, [and other technologies] that students deem
important,” and says he believes that “Chambers is an ideal location” for such a facility.

Junior Class Social this Tuesday

Pizza will be served at 10:30 p.m. in the Big Screen Room this Tuesday, March 26, at the Junior Class
Social. The event is organized by Saad Gul, Junior Class Senator.

Need-based financial aid available

Students who did not receive need-based financial aid in 1995-96 but plan to apply for 1996-97 should pick up application
materials at the Financial Aid Office by March 30, 1996.

College Republicans hold straw poll

Wednesday’s College Republican straw poll gave many Davidson students their first opportunity to express a preference in this year's Presidential
and gubernatorial races.

MONDAY, MARCH 25, 1996

In the Republican primary, national front-runner Bob Dole secured an easy victory with 58% of the vote. Lamar Alexander finished
a strong second with 26%, despite having withdrawn from the race two weeks ago. Dole’s remaining two challengers, Alan Keyes
and Patrick Buchanan, finished with 5% and 1% respectively. As of now, only Dole remains in the race. Over 85%
of the students voting in the Republican governor’s race chose Richard Vinroot. Art Manning and Robin Hayes finished tied for
second with 4% each. In the Democratic primary, President Bill Clinton won nearly unanimously with 98% of the vote, while
perennial fringe candidate Lyndon LaRouche received just 2% of the vote. Incumbent governor Jim Hunt, seeking his fourth term since
1976, ran unopposed in the Democratic governor’s race. Of 13 votes cast by faculty, President Clinton received 11, while Dick
Lugar received 2. For governor, Jim Hunt received 11, Richard Vinroot 1, and Robin Hayes 1. Information on the Richard
Vinroot campaign was available on the election tables, but no representatives supplied information on Democratic candidates.

Foros Seafood, BBQ & Catering

Featuring GREAT Seafood, outstanding Ribeye Steaks, our famous Barbecue, and award-winning Banana Pudding PLUS Much More!

LUNCH HOURS: Friday, 11:30 - 2:00 P.M.
DINNER: Tues. - Sat., 5:00 P.M. - 9:00 P.M.
18150 Statesville Rd., CORNELIUS

NEWS — FACULTY SOUND OFF —

Where do you stand on the issue of minors?

My major concern about minors is that they will impact concentrations, which are a great part of Davidson. I really
like the interdisciplinary nature of them. The department as a whole voted last year not in favor of minors.
—Biology Professor Verna Case

The Psychology Department will not be offering minors even if they are adopted college-wide.
—Psychology Professor Ruth Ault

My gut feeling is that it won’t make much difference. I’m fairly neutral on the proposal, but I could...be persuaded
either way. It’ll add administrative overhead to the registrar. But they would be beneficial in helping some departments in upper-level
courses.
—Physics Professor Wolfgang Christian

It might encourage some students to buy into the myth that more labels and categories on transcripts will assure them
employment or graduate school acceptance. We don’t have the resources to accommodate that kind of goal.
—English Professor Sara Beasley

I think there’s no reasonable argument that minors will help students get jobs. That argument is a fallacy. Small departments
like ours might risk losing majors if we have minors. I think there’s no intellectual coherence with minors that isn’t
already there [with concentrations]. There’s lots of room for concentrations to grow because they offer something coherent.
—German Professor Scott Denham

Minors seem like a really good thing to me.
—English Professor Ralph Black

I don’t have a particular stance, but the issue of minors is a matter of educational policy that should be
considered by the faculty.
—Dean of Faculty Robert Williams

I’m 100% in favor of minors. We already have concentrations and the double major... minors would [allow] students to focus
on an area, for example the fine arts, in which they are not majoring. I’ve heard no arguments against minors
which have convinced me.
—Spanish Professor Lois Kemp

They seem like a fine idea to me... I think it might convince a few students to take a few
more classes in mathematics. If there are minors, the math department might be interested in offering one in computer science.
—Mathematics Professor Richard Neidinger

I have real reservations about minors. One of my concerns is that we’ve already reduced the courses necessary for graduation.
Concentrations [as opposed to minors] are designed to be spread across several disciplines... Students can take the courses in an
area [without labeling their studies as a minor].
—History Professor Earl Edmondson

My view is that I don’t see any real need for or benefit of minors, but if the majority of
students at Davidson want them, I think it’s worth a try. There are good arguments on both sides of the
issue. My word to students in general is: ‘If you want them, find creative ways to let the faculty know
that you do.’
—Religion Professor Lynn Poland

I don’t see why students are so anxious to have minors. Students can acquire the substance of a minor by
simply taking the classes. Neither I, nor many of the faculty see why the name ‘minor’ is so important to
students... The name is of completely illusory benefit. In my opinion, it won’t add happiness to anyone’s career. Any official
agency is going to look at the transcript to see what courses were taken and what the performance was in
these courses. I think the faculty see a negative aspect to minors. Students should be free to take a variety
of courses outside of their major... Minors may end up narrowing the experience of a liberal education.
—History Professor T.C. Price Zimmermann

With the systematic treatment of majors and minors at Davidson, I like the idea of minors.
—Professor Emeritus George Labban

Several members of the faculty declined to comment and/or wished not to be quoted.
—Compiled by Catherine Anderson and Kirsten Recknagel

The Davidsonian is still looking for photography staff. If you like to take pictures, we can help you take better
ones. Call John or Mary Clare - 2148
