SPORTS MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1996

Will’s World
Be a fan
By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

All you have to do is turn on the television. Maybe it’s fall and the Golden Domers are roaring in
South Bend. The students will be standing... all game. During every timeout everyone will begin doing “the Lou,” Notre Dame’s
version of the Tomahawk chop. Faces and chests will be painted every week, whether it’s snowing or not.

Or maybe it’s winter time, and basketball dominates the airwaves. It could be Temple, Tulane, UMass, or Durham’s own Duke
Blue Devils. It doesn’t matter. The pictures are still the same. Students with nets on their heads, jumping around and
making such a racket that opposing teams can’t hear themselves think. Coaches pull their teams away from the fans during
timeouts in a futile attempt to be heard. You hear about students camping out for weeks for first pick of
the tickets.

But, you won’t see anyone pitching a tent on Davidson grass, and don’t hold your breath for painted faces. Because
unless it’s basketball season and we’ve got a chance at the Big Dance, you probably won’t see any red and
black fans. But why not? Why are our fans so apathetic?

At the beginning of the women’s soccer game against rival Furman on Wednesday there were three students, and twelve fans
in the stands. TWELVE! And most of them were from Furman. So much for an intimidating crowd presence. Last year
when the team traveled to Furman the fans threw things. They yelled, heckled, and generally made life miserable for the
Wildcats. Starting defender Natasha Vasavada said “it was terrible.” But at least this time they would be at home. Some
difference. The loudest person in attendance was a Paladin-backer sitting all by himself in the visiting bleachers. He was audible
throughout the game in the press box, which is perched atop the home stands on the other side of the
field. Imagine what he must have sounded like to the players. And imagine being a player on a team whose
home fans make less noise than one guy.

I know you have work to do. We all have a lot of work to do, and maybe you don’t
care much about sports, but I’m going to chance that you do because you have read this much of this
article. So I challenge you to be rowdy. Paint a face or two. Come out and support the athletes who
put themselves on the line every week for this school. Let them know that we’re proud of what they do.
At least let them know they’re at home.

Rusby crushes Western Carolina
By CLAYTON SCHLOSS
Staff Writer

The Davidson rugby team won in impressive fashion on Saturday against Western Carolina, punishing the Catamounts, 36-0. Matt Burkhardt began
the onslaught by scoring a try on a long run and converting the kick, giving Davidson a 7-0 lead. Wingman
Jason Cody followed by beating several Western defenders around the end and then cutting back inside to push the ball
into the try zone. An impressive passing sequence led to the third Wildcat try. Eight-man Michael Schenck took a pass
out of a maul from second-rower Will Baldwin and flipped it to flanker Thayer Long. Long tossed the ball to
fly-half Hank Ackerman, who passed it to wing Christian Baker. Baker took the pass, evaded some would-be tacklers, and eventually
found a score.

“That was a great exchange we had,” said Long. “The passes were right where they needed to be and Christian
finished it off well.”

Ackerman scored the next Davidson try, scooping up a loose ball around midfield, breaking away from the pack and racing
uncontested to the try zone. The Wildcats, up 26-0 at that point, continued to roll as Schenck tallied another try.
Long capped the Wildcat victory, catching a tipped line-out pass near the Catamount try zone and pushing across the line
for the score.

“Our ‘D’ was tenacious today, and we totally dominated the scrums,” said prop Mike Lassiter. “We tackled well, pressured them
on defense, and controlled the ball on offense,” said coach Paul Kenney. “This was a great team effort,” added coach
Blaine Segal.

By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

While women’s soccer continues to struggle with scoring, the team has re-defined stingy, allowing four goals in regulation in the
last seven games, dating back to a Sept. 30 matchup at N.C. State. And they’ve done that in one of
the more difficult stretches of the season, playing highly regarded UNC Greensboro (1-4 L, OT), N.C. State (0-1 L, OT),
Georgia (0-1 L, OT), UNC Charlotte (0-0 T, OT), and UNC Asheville (1-2 L), in addition to ever-dangerous conference rival
Furman (2-1 W), and UT-Chattanooga (6-0 W).

“It’s not just the defense. We’ve gotten better as the season’s gone on,” coach Kevin Hundley said. “We’re comfortable taking
different roles, and it’s pleasing that the team as a whole has really worked to get better.”

“Our transition play has been really good lately,” goalkeeper Allison Noznesky continued. “I feel like things have really crystallized. It’s
not a case of...Can we do it (shut out the opposition), but am I going to have a bad break
day where the ball rolls through my legs or something?” Despite their improved play, the (2-4-1) record in those games
has left the team frustrated. “We're starting to play really well together but we’re not getting wins. You feel much
better when you go back and you’ve won,” sweeper Katherine Cornelius said. “It’s tiring to continue to go home and
say we lost, or we tied.”

“We have to go into games confident we will score even if we haven’t been scoring. We have to keep
on shooting and trying, and we have to keep up our defense all over the field. I wish there was
some magic key.” Even if the Wildcats haven’t been able to find that magic key against non-conference foes, they have
won in conference. That trend continued against Furman on Wednesday night under the Richardson Field lights.

“It was a good hard game, and both teams played well,” Furman coach Brian Lee said. “It was important because
we’d slipped up and lost two already. Now all they (Davidson) have to do is beat Georgia Southern (at home
this Saturday) and they win (conference).”

After five minutes, both teams had engineered a shot, but then Davidson took over the game. They held the Paladins
without a shot for the next 60 minutes while cranking out 19 of their own. Ginny Dye opened the scoring
in the 25th minute. Rhina Roberts dropped a through ball behind the defense, and Dye ran onto it. She collected
it, and touched it past onrushing Paladin keeper Jen McNutt.

Midway through the second half, Roberts carried the ball into the box, but had it knocked free by a hard
tackle. It popped to Dye who was taken down, and the Wildcats were awarded a penalty kick. Amy Kanoff deposited
it in the right side of the goal for a 2-0 cushion. The Paladins struck back off Liz Bielefeld’s re-start
from the left flank in the 73rd minute. She hit a high knuckling shot that froze Noznesky and slipped into
the back side of the goal. But, the defense stifled all other Furman attacks to hold on for the 2-1
win.

“Furman is a big rival, and this was the last conference game in the first round. It makes a statement
to win,” Dye said. “We probably could’ve finished a few more chances, but we’re still undefeated in conference which was
our goal.”

But, the scoring problems resurfaced Friday against UNCA. The Wildcats outshot the Bulldogs 20-8, but fell 2-1. “I thought it
was one of our better games as far as playing attractively,” Hundley said. “We created some of our better scoring
opportunities, and they came off good plays as opposed to their mistakes or luck. Our finishing just let us down.”

Roberts scored the lone Wildcat goal. In the 68th minute, Kanoff looped a high cross from the left wing, beating
the single defender in the penalty area. Roberts ran onto the ball and finished it with a powerful header into
the left corner which knotted the score at one. The Bulldogs got the game winner in the 84th minute.

Anna Judy & Melissa Moser take the ball off a Furman player during the Wildcat win on Wednesday. She has
played a huge role in the improved defense, marking the opposition’s top scorer.

Men run well in N.C. Cross Country Championships
By AARON DUNNIGAN
Staff Writer

The men’s cross country team continued its recent success Saturday afternoon at the N.C. Intercollegiate Championships in Charlotte. Although the
Wildcat runners finished 12th among 13 teams competing in the Green Division, the team still turned in a strong performance.
Fifteen Davidson runners competed in the race, the most in coach Gary Andrew’s 11-year tenure.

Josh Cookson led the team with a third-place overall finish, posting the third fastest time (26:01) ever by a Davidson
harrier on the McAlpine-Greenway course. The next four finishers for the Wildcats were freshmen William Isenhour, Brent Ferrell, Victor Tailbird,
and Pat Burchett. Three of those runners (Isenhour, Ferrell, and Tailbird) joined Cookson on the all-time Davidson performance list with
their times on Saturday.

Andrew attributed the good times to the flat McAlpine-Greenway course. “After running on hilly courses, we had some pretty fast
times,” he said. “We would have done better in the standings on a hilly course, but the guys ran great.
I’m really happy.”

“The flat course gave us a lot of confidence and was a lot more fun,” added Isenhour. “Everybody is improving.”

Duke took first in the race, followed by Western Carolina. With this week’s Alumni Invitational in doubt, the next race
for Davidson will likely be at the Southern Conference Championships at Western Carolina in two weeks. The top nine runners
on Saturday will represent Davidson at the final meet.
