THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1996

16 Seniors have last splash at Southern States

By Witt BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

As the men’s and women’s swimming and diving teams push towards the end of their seasons and the all-important Southern States meet, which will be held at Davidson this Thursday through Saturday, Churchill Hooff and Katharine Welling push towards the end of their successful careers.

“As is natural any time you have a coaching transition and you are implementing new policies and standards, we had some attrition when I first arrived. But, they (Churchill and Katharine) have stayed the course and been great examples of what it means to meet a challenge,” said head coach Rich DeSelm, who arrived when the present seniors were sophomores.

According to Hooff, this year’s senior class was the first recruiting class for Davidson swimming and diving, and during their four years the men have earned a Southern States championship (last season), while the women have become a significant force, placing fourth last season at Southern States and shooting for at least third this season.

“We need to come together as a team (to reach their goal of 3rd place at Southern States),” Welling said. “We have to support each other and swim well. With a meet like this, team is a big thing. You can get lost if you’re not supporting each other.”

Hooff added to Welling’s comments, talking about the unpredictability of meets like Southern States, which will have over 300 participants. “You can always count on somebody who’s supposed to do well flopping and somebody to come out of the woodwork and surprise people. You really have to hope the woodwork is on your team and the flop isn’t. The relays will be important. They’re worth twice as much as individual events,” he said.

Michael Hart, the men’s diving captain, expressed concern about the meet, saying he was kind of nervous about it because he has been abroad for a semester and unable to dive. But he was hopeful that the team would be able to come together and perform well.

In the past, both Hooff and Welling have performed well at Southern States individually. Welling has medalled in the 100-yard backstroke and been a finalist in the 100 and 200-yard backstroke, while Hooff is a 6-time champion and four-time runner-up. But according to DeSelm, some of their most valuable contributions have been as team leaders.

“They have both been instrumental leaders, and a tremendous help along with the other seniors in providing leadership and support as we put some aspects into the program that hopefully are making it a higher caliber and great experience for people,” DeSelm said. “They do so much more behind the scenes than I ever know about in terms of solving teammate crises and other stuff that never gets back to me.”

Unfortunately for the team, Freddy Schnell, a key swimmer for the men who won three events last season while placing second in two, injured his ankle over the weekend and is questionable for Southern States.

Weekly Schedule

Men’s Basketball
Wednesday @ ETSU 7:30 pm
Saturday vs. Citadel (TV) 2:30 pm

Women’s Basketball
Tonight @ Western Carolina 4:00 p.m.
Saturday @ Furman 7:30 p.m.

Swimming and Diving
15-17 Southern States Championships @ Davidson All day

Wrestling
Saturday vs. Georgia Southern 9:00 am
Saturday vs. Campbell and Longwood 9:00 am

Track and Field
Saturday @ USC all day

Sailing
Saturday Charleston Spring Invitational @ Charleston

Rugby
Saturday vs. Radford 1:00 pm

Men’s Basketball
2/5 - Davidson 70 @ UTC 58
2/10 - @ Davidson 84 Ap. St. 66

Women’s Basketball
2/6 - Furman @ Davidson
2/10 - @ Ap. St. Davidson

Wrestling
2/3 - Duke 43 @ Davidson 3

Rugby
2/10 - Davidson 49 SWVCC 0

Swimming and Diving
2/4 - Men:Davidson 142 Emory 63. Women: Davidson 102 Emory 102 Sailing 2/10 - Wildcat Invitational: Davidson 20 NC State 30 UNC-W 40 Duke 50

Money from page 14
tions that can effectively handle crowds between ten and fifteen thousand. “Who has had better success with crowds of that size?” asks Sargent, who is heading up the Davidson bid. If the bid comes through, Davidson will get three first-round double headers and a quarterfinal match. The last Women’s World Cup was televised in 33 countries.

Unsung hero Alpert key to Davidson’s success
By Michael Kruse
Assistant Sports Editor

Brandon Williams, Quinn Harwood, and other high-scoring Wildcats grace the highlight films. Chris Alpert, on the other hand, with his superior court vision and precision passing, makes it happen. But making it happen is nothing new for the underrated point guard.

No Division I programs scouted Alpert as a Chaminade (NY) High senior. Determined to play top-notch college basketball though, he played a post-graduate year at Northfield Mount Hermon, a Massachusetts prep school. There, Brown, Yale, Boston College, and Providence showed interest, but none offered him a scholarship. So Alpert contacted coach McKillop and explained his situation. McKillop urged him to apply and told him that, with a solid walk-on performance, he could receive a scholarship.

Alpert claimed the point guard slot almost immediately, starting 25 of 28 games as a freshman. He earned the coveted scholarship prior to his sophomore season. “It meant a lot,” said Alpert, "The hard work had paid off finally. I just made the most of my opportunities. It was a very proud moment for me and my parents.”

But he did not stop there. For the past four years, he has played a vital role as a member of the most successful basketball class at Davidson College in almost 30 years. “(Chris has) done it offensively, he’s done it defensively, he’s accepted his role, he’s played to the ultimate,” said McKillop.

Earlier this year, he became the all-time Davidson assist leader, topping the previous mark of 436. The record consummates consistent, ironman effort for Alpert, who has started 101 of 105 games during his Davidson career.

Floor general Chris Alpert checks on Davidson’s lead. Josh Glazer

He averaged 6.1 points as a rookie, 8.1 as a sophomore, and 9.7 as a junior. This year, he posts 8.8 points per game overall and 13 against conference foes. He has compiled 145 career steals, second best in school history. But statistics only begin to indicate what Chris Alpert has done for Davidson basketball.

Along with classmates Brandon Williams, Quinn Harwood, Jeff Anderson, and Mark McGuire, Alpert has established the Wildcats as permanent contenders in the Southern Conference, gaining the team’s ultimate respect. Said Harwood, “Chris is our leader. It starts with him. It’s been great playing with him for four years. He’s a hell of a point guard.”

“I just try to make sure that we’re just together as one unit and that we all know what we have to do, and that’s to go out and win ballgames,” explained Alpert, who hopes to play professionally overseas next year. But for now, the Wildcats have set their sights on winning the Southern Conference tournament and the NCAA bid that comes with it, something they have not been able to do in ten years.

“I just want to be remembered as someone who was able to take his team to a Southern Conference championship and to be part of one of the greatest teams that Davidson has ever had, someone who worked extremely hard and took nothing for granted and tried to give 100% every time,” Alpert said, “I think if we’re able to win the Southern Conference this year and get to the NCAA’s, I think all the players on this team will be remembered that way.”