MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1996

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
MARY CLARE JALONICK

Associate Editor
TERESA WHITE

News Editors
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
RANDY HARTWELL

Copy Editors
NINA BLOUNT
KRISTEN RICHARDSON

Arts & Living Editor
SUSAN RUGGIERO

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Assoc. Arts & Living Editor
JILL WILLIAMS

Sports Editors
WILL BRADSHAW
MICHAEL KRUSE
MEREDITH LUCIUS

Photo Editor
BEN DeLISA

Opinions Editors
ERIC PENDERGRASS
DANIEL MOTZ

Cartoonist
GREG GARRISON

Business Manager
CAROLINE BYNUM

Advertising Managers
BETH BACON
MEREDITH LUCIUS

Circulation Manager
McNEIL CARSWELL

Web Page Managers
JILL WILLIAMS
CLAY LENHART
BRAD CHASE

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

LETTERS

Campus Rides

Drunk driving happens. We all know that it does. But because Davidson has always been a residential campus, we have
not acknowledged it as a pressing problem on campus.

As a result, drunk drivers hit Main, Concord and Highway 77 with few other options.

As parties move more and more off campus, students should take a stand.

Wake Forest has recently established a SADD chapter after two girls were killed in a gory drunk driving accident. At
Colgate, students volunteer to give rides to reveling students every weekend.

Organizations could organize nights to give rides, and students could pay — or individuals could volunteer and students could ride
free. Any sort of rides program would benefit students traveling off campus — and save community and student lives in
the process.

Monopolies on Campus

Students off-campus know the real story. BTI is a rip-off. A detailed comparison is hardly necessary; a cursory look at
the two different bills will prove that normal rates are far below BTI rates.

Why is the campus using this system? Is it possible to renegotiate so that students can get a fairer shake?

We laud the formation of the CPC (Consumer Protection Committee) and Lucian Dervan for forming it.

However, we hope that the committee will not become too mired in student interviews and red tape. The SGA should
move as swiftly as possible to get to the bottom of this matter, and save current students a few bucks
for dinner each month.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. One copy per
student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.

Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the
editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per
year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

The Male Gaze

To the editors:

I just received the August 26 issue of The Davidsonian via a very long and painful process involving one Ex-Opinions
editor and the sketchy general mail service of Panama. Yes, it is mid-October now, and this probably won’t get back
to Davidson until mid-November, but I felt inspired to write nonetheless.

I read Kristen Richardson’s summer account of feminism and the “male gaze” in England and immediately related to her experiences.
I’ve been traveling in Latin America (mostly by myself) since July and certainly have encountered much of what Kristen refers
to in her article “Summer Luvin’” written way back when. No, I’m not talking about torrid affairs with Latin lovers.
Unfortunately, I’m talking about sexual harassment I’ve dealt with in Mexico and Central America. Ironic? Yes, because I’m supposed to
be here to study “Women Journalists, Feminists, and the Alternative Press in Latin America” and have found much more machismo
than feminismo.

Just as Kristen felt in England, the constant stares, cat-calls, and hisses enrage and sometimes dampen my feminist spirit. Traveling
solo as a woman in this part of the world is not easy; in Latin America, harassment comes with the
territory. Yes, I am well aware that the hisses are a “cultural thing.” But while it may be “cultural,” it’s
still degrading, objectifying, and violating to women. And knowing that it’s “cultural,” doesn’t make it any easier for an American
feminist to deal with.

Thankfully, Kristen and I have the awareness and the opportunity to respond to such degradation in forums like The Davidsonian.
Many women in Latin America do not have these benefits. Many women here and in other parts of the world
accept the hisses and the stares, the beatings and the rapes, the harassment and the oppression because they don’t even
have the legal right to speak out against such injustices. Thankfully, Kristen and I do.

So maybe it’s not so ironic after all. In many ways, this is exactly what my project is about. And
as I’m sure Kristen would agree, it’s all part of the amazing and rewarding experience of traveling abroad, living in
and learning about other cultures while gaining a greater perspective of our own.

Mandy Curtis
class of ‘96

If, on Monday night, you hear a gentle rapping at your chamber door please open it.

The Davidsonian T-shirt. Yes, The Davidsonian T-shirt just for you.

If for some reason you miss our team of salespersons, we still have some of these fabulous T-shirts left. Call
Caroline Bynum at -2148.
