6 THE DAVIDSONIAN | ELSEWHERE MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1996

Election countdown: 8 days

Campaign Issues: Where the candidates stand

1. Do you support a woman’s right to choose to have an abortion?
   - Dole: No
   - Clinton: Yes

2. Do you support a balanced budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution?
   - Clinton: No
   - Dole: Yes

3. To reduce the budget deficit, should the federal government eliminate the U.S. Department of Energy?
   - Clinton: No
   - Dole: Yes

4. Should there be a single income tax rate?
   - Clinton: No
   - Dole: Yes

5. Do you support deployment of an anti-missile defense system?
   - Dole: Yes
   - Clinton: No

6. Do you think U.S. troops should be in Bosnia as peacekeepers?
   - Clinton: Yes
   - Dole: No

7. Would you support a ban on political action committee contributions to federal candidates?
   - Clinton: Yes
   - Dole: Yes

8. Do you support development of national educational standards and goals?
   - Clinton: Yes
   - Dole: No

9. Do you favor eliminating the U.S. Department of Education?
   - Clinton: No
   - Dole: Yes

10. Do you support the principle of amending the U.S. Constitution to allow voluntary prayer and/or a moment of silence in public schools?
    - Clinton: No
    - Dole: Yes

11. Should the government maintain affirmative action efforts in hiring and contracting?
    - Clinton: Yes
    - Dole: No

12. Should the government maintain preferences for minority students applying for college admission?
    - Clinton: Yes
    - Dole: No

Source: "All Politics,” CNN/Time on the WWW. Last week's source: CBS on the WWW.

Political Perspective

As voters, we are coming upon a time when our members of Congress will be coming home and overwhelming us with promises. We have a responsibility to not be swayed by lofty promises. Instead, we need to focus on the real issues. The issues that affect all of us.

One very important issue that should be closely watched is the effect of the harmful pollutants that are being emitted by many industries. We have a right to know if we are in harm's way. I realize that the Safe Drinking Water Act and the Food Quality Act are steps in the right direction but we need to start to demand more. The Community Right to Know Act, our best source of information about these harmful toxins, requires that large manufacturing companies report the toxins they emit. Although this does increase our awareness, it is not good enough. Presently these industries only have to report emissions of 343 toxic chemicals that are known to be of harm but unfortunately more than 72,000 chemicals are on the market today and most devastating is that the public is only aware of fewer than one percent of these.

We also as consumers have no way of knowing if we are being affected by these toxins. They are entering our homes and affecting our families without our knowledge. Plus there are a number of industries that are currently not required to report their emissions. These include such industries as sewage treatment plants, incinerators, and oil and gas storage and drilling sites. All of these are major factors in pollution ... and the public is simply not informed. We have a right to know what toxins are used and produced in our neighborhoods. We have a right to know when our loved ones are being affected. Basically, we have a right to know what chemicals are polluting our neighborhoods from all types of facilities.

Unfortunately, the manufacturing and chemical industries have launched an opposition to weaken the Right to Know Act. Congress should not be swayed by these special interest groups. Instead, Congress should support the expansion of the Community Right to Know Act and also the Children's Environmental Health Protection Act. Both of these will create a safer environment. They will mandate that manufacturers put warning labels on toxic children's foods and products and also require public reporting of the use of toxic chemicals ensuring better worker and consumer safety. It is now time to demand that our lawmakers put children and the environment first. I suggest that you urge your Representatives to support these bills and put safety first.

Robin Dodson‘00 Volunteer for the US PIRG, a nonprofit, non-partisan organization. Come to hear Phil Duncan, Editor of Congressional Quarterly’s Politics in America, speak about the elections at 7 p.m. in the 900 Room Tuesday night.

Che Dawurdsoanta

Beyond Davidson for the week ending Sunday, October 2

International...

Picketers protest government spending cuts in Canada

Spending cuts proposed by Ontario’s government resulted in labor union and church group-led protests last week. Picketers paralyzed the city's mass transport system. Bus, subway, and streetcar operations halted on Friday. Picketers also tried to enter the Toronto Stock Exchange but were unable to get past the lobby.

Medicines containing arsenic banned in China

The sale of seven brands of folk medicine was banned in Hong Kong last week after government officials found them to contain potentially toxic levels of arsenic. The traditional cures are said to heal a range of ailments, including sore throats.

Bomb explodes in Lebanon, killing Israeli soldiers

Two Israeli soldiers were killed when a bomb went off in southern Lebanon on Friday. Four other soldiers were injured in the blast. An Islamic guerrilla group, Hezbollah, claimed responsibility for the act.

National...

St. Petersburg, Florida hit by race-related riots

St. Petersburg’s police chief declared a state of emergency Friday in response to violent rioting in the southeastern part of the city. Nearly 30 buildings suffered major damage and the sale of guns and gasoline in containers was banned for a 72-hour period. Rioting broke out after a white police officer shot and killed an 18-year-old black motorist.

Oklahoma bombing suspects will be tried separately

Timothy McVeigh and Terry Nichols will be tried separately for their alleged involvement in the Oklahoma City bombing of April 1995, ruled a judge last Friday. The defendants' lawyers had argued that the men should stand separate trials in the interest of a fairer trial.

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Healthy
5 Fiery signal
10 Brass
14 Poke
15 Shoestrings
16 Outer garment
17 Barbershop item
18 Make suitable
19 Eye
20 Caught sight of
22 Stands for canvases
24 Phooey!
25 Amuse
26 Electrical unit
29 Rich source
33 Fly high
34 Boldness
36 Arab VIP
37 Mink, e.g.
38 Bakery item
39 Sch. gp.
40 Bone: pref.
42 Where soldiers are stationed
44 That girl's
45 Limit
47 Grand —
49 Engrave
50 School period
52 Couple
53 Press
54 Abs (with “out”)
55 Foray
56 Sprees
57 Chimpanzees
58 Author Milne
60 Weather outlook
62 Ship of 1492
63 Wash lightly
64 “Do — others..."
65 Schooner part
66 Ceased
67 Distort

DOWN
1 Desire
2 Geologic period
3 Walk with difficulty
4 Toiler
5 Squash
6 Fills with cargo
7 School: abbr.
8 Agent: abbr.
9 Actress Parsons
10 Couple
11 Press
21 Sailor
23 Help
25 Desire greedily
26 With regard to
27 Mickey or Minnie
28 Components
29 Grain for grinding
30 Urge on
31 Saltpeter
32 Remove in a way
35 Geologic period
36 Personified
41 Never-ending
42 Photo
43 Perfumed
44 Bone of the upper arm
46 Abbr. on a map
48 Law: abbr.
50 Tantalize
51 Devotees
52 Mr. Kazan
53 Indian queen
54 He's 007
55 Give a rating to
56 Scene
59 Receptacle for
61 The present