2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS BRIEF

SGA passes amendment creating town-gown relations committee

The Student Government Association approved a resolution and bylaws amendment presented by Head Independent Senator Matthew Hobbie. The amendment forms a new committee, charged with maintaining open lines of communication between the Davidson Town Council and the Davidson College Student Government Association. The amendment reads as follows:

“The Town Liaison Committee consists of two chairpersons, one to deal specifically with the Town Council and one to deal with the Downtown Davidson Organization, appointed by the S.G.A. Vice President and approved by the Senate, and other members designated by the chairs. The T.L.C. will serve as a liaison between the students and the town government of Davidson, NC, by attending meetings of both the Town Council and the Downtown Davidson Organization and by having at least one member of the committee at each of those meetings. The committee chairs will report on the topics of those meetings to the Senate once a month and whenever requested by the Senate.” (V,C,12)

NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1996

Holiday Schedule for Vail Commons

Thursday, 12/12 — Reading Day
“Come to the Commons and relax.” We will be offering gourmet techniques of relaxation through spinal massage.
2 pm - 4 pm
No charge

Saturday, 12/14 — Exam Day
Commons open for three meals.
Breakfast 7:30 - 10 am
Lunch 11 am - 1:45 pm
Dinner 5 pm - 6:45 pm
Meal Cards, declining balance, cash accepted
A meal has been added to meal plans for this day.

Sunday, 12/15 — Christmas Buffet
Commons open for three meals
Breakfast 10 am - 11:30 am
Lunch “Come and enjoy FOODS OF THE SEASON” 11:30 am - 1:30 pm
Dinner 5 pm - 7 pm
Meal cards, declining balance, cash accepted
A meal has been added to meal plans for this day.

Thursday, 12/19 — Exams Over
Breakfast 7:30 am - 10 am
Lunch 11 am - 1:30 pm (last meal available)
Sandwiches will be available for trip home

Good luck on exams
The Davidsonian staff.

Happy Holidays and a good New Year.

In focus ... STUDENT VOICES

What is your opinion of Santa's distribution of condoms at last week's Christmas tree lighting ceremony?

I thought it was very inappropriate. I hope no children were there.
Nick Limberopoulos ’97

I think it was great. We should do that every day. But warn people next time — I thought it was taffy.
John Brewer ’97

OK with it.
Nureya Namaz ’00

I support the distribution of condoms, but there is a time and a place. A Christmas ceremony where small children and families are awaiting the arrival of Santa Claus is a perfect example of a place not to give out condoms.
Caroline Bynum ’97

The action was performed to promote AIDS awareness, which deserves our utmost attention — if it takes Santa to get our attention, then so be it!
Stuart Frye ’00

Christmas is Christmas. AIDS awareness is AIDS awareness. I see no reason to mix the two.
John Jackson ’00

I felt it was something inappropriate to occur at the ceremony.
Peter Klein ’98

He can throw whatever the hell he wants to from the rooftops, he’s Santa Claus.
Vic Brand ’99

Although it may have been unexpected, I think that it was meant to be an entertaining way to raise awareness.
Meagan Mitchell ’97

Those sustained me for the whole weekend. Thanks Santa!
Caroline Springer ’00

I thought it was quite ironic that our Christmas party coincided with AIDS awareness, and I think it presented a great contrast from the religious side of the party.
Clay Cofer ’99

The most perfect holiday is a VD free one.
Liz Sale ’98

Santa was here?
Asher Wood ’98

I thought they were candy, until I opened it, and boy, did it taste bad.
Chesley Garrett ’00

We say they didn’t get far enough into the crowd. Maybe Santa should work out before next year.
Allison Bishop ’00

I thought it was really classy. I am sure all the visitors to the school on Wednesday were impressed with all the condoms scattered across the front steps of Chambers.
Rich Glenn ’98

I wasn’t there, but it sounds inappropriate.
Doug MacKelcan ’97

People attempting to be shocking or perceived as open-minded tend to be drama queens.
M. Hardman ’97

Certain messages need to be addressed and this did it in a humorous way ... RIGHT ON SANTA!