THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1996

TMBG CRANKS OUT INDUSTRIAL ROCK

By JAMES BERRY
Staff Writer

Factory Showroom, They Might Be Giants’ latest release, seems ill-named. If you’ve ever heard Lincoln or, more probably, Flood, you know that there was a time when They Might Be Giants embraced such electronic wonders as drum machines, sequencers, samplers, and the power-laden synth-bass (of 80s music fame). But 1995 marked the release of John Henry, and in one mighty swoop the band transformed from a two-man outfit to a fully functional live band including real bass, real drums, and real people playing them. Gone were the silly polka beats. Gone were the short, sugary, swarms of songs that came in such numbers that it was hard to believe that they weren’t produced by some prolific music factory. In their place was a new brand of eclectic rock ‘n roll. And with Factory Showroom, They Might Be Giants reinvent their sound (again) by mixing the live band with some old electronic tricks. They haven’t simply returned to the factory. They’ve brought the factory to them and forced it to deal out their whims.

Factory Showroom departs from the traditional TMBG style in more ways than one. The first song on the album “S-E-X-X-Y” is the band’s “first ode to getting it on.” (Quotation taken from They Might Be Giants’ web page found at http://www.tmbg.com under the “music news” heading.) While not exactly steamy, the Giants set the tone for the song during an instrumental intro with a voice-over: “Dressed all in clothes/From her head to her toes/This is the way/The talking part goes.” A blend of bass and analog synthesizer then lays down a tight funk overlaid by an attitude-ridden vocal chant.

My personal favorite is “How Can I Sing Like A Girl?” A music box sample opens the song gently until the chorus adds drums, guitars, and vocal harmonies to the mix. The song reportedly explores how John Flansburgh (TMBG guitarist) felt when he had to sing his falsetto parts during the last tour. “How can I sing like a girl/And not be stigmatized by the rest of the world?/Tell me how I can sing like a girl/And not be objectified as if I were a girl.”

Other songs such as “XTC vs. Adam Ant”, “Exquisite Dead Guy”, and “The Bells Are Ringing” can be described only as typical They Might Be Giants’ slants on seemingly normal subjects. “I Can Hear You” is a commentary on technology and was fittingly recorded at The Edison Laboratory on wax cylinders and without electricity making the recording fittingly scratchy.

While Factory Showroom definitely makes use of the live band to achieve its sound, They Might Be Giants don’t stop at one-shot recording. The album sports several tracks of guitar and vocals not to mention the varied keyboard sounds and orchestral accompaniments. And no matter what instrument, the performance is tight.

No matter what happens to the TMBG sound, the sense of humor will always remain the same. Factory Showroom follows the tradition.

Orchestra to perform “crowd pleaser” concert

By J.C. WILLIAMS
Associate Arts and Living Editor

It is hard to believe that the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra could successfully follow its performance last spring premiering pianist Jim Swisher performing Dr. Richard S.’s piano concerto. This fall, however, the DCSO has been hard...At work preparing, in the words of Dr. Prior, what promises to be a concert of “crowd-pleasing” music. The Thursday night concert will open with Creston’s The Orchestra, courtesy of Quips and Cranks, showcasing senior Steve Duncan. Another feature of the evening’s performance will be the Davidson College Chamber Singers' appearance in Stravinsky’s Symphony of Psalms. The second half of the program will begin with the well-known Hoedown from Rodeo by Aaron Copland and will end with the similarly familiar Rhapsody in Blue. This Gershwin piece will feature Cynthia Lawing at the piano. As noted in both the Charlotte Observer and the Mecklenburg Gazette, the large size and evident talent of this relatively newly formed ensemble is truly a unique phenomenon at such a small institution as Davidson College. All students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to attend this, the first of two fall semester DCSO performances on Thursday in Love Auditorium at 8 p.m. Admission is free.

Fantasy for Trombone and Orchestra

ION SOUTH BROAD
International cuisine with a southern twist
An 1859 House, Fireplaces, Fresh Ingredients, Homemade Bread & Desserts, Fine Wines & Beers
The Ideal Place To Dine
Lunch Tues - Fri 11:30 - 2:00 under $5.95
Dinner Tues - Sat 5:30 - Reservations Accepted
Special 3-Course Prix Fixe Dinner Tues - Fri $15.95 Order by 7pm
259 South Broad Street, Mooresville 663-1859
Off-Premise Catering & Private Rooms for Special Occasions
Open Thanksgiving Day 11:30 'til 4:00 from $7.95

"The Other Hand" - Come consider an alternative point of view on the common conception that Christianity stifles personal freedom. Check out the poster on the first floor of the library. Richard Giersch, a Christian speaker and musician from Charleston, SC, will speak on Wednesday, November 20th at 7 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the College Union. Sponsored by InterVarsity Christian Fellowship.

At the Clubs — Music in two hours or less—
COMPILED BY CLAY COFER

Monday, Nov. 18
Double Door: Les Moore, Jim Brock, Rick Blackwell, Johnny Alexander, Charles Hairston, Joe Linsey
Irish Cue: Scoot & John

Tuesday, Nov. 19
Amos’: Bill Hanna & Ziad
Coyote Joe’s (country): Vic Rorrer & The No Name Band
Mythos: College night-Techno
Pterodactyl: 80’s Dance night
Ziggy’s (Winston Salem): Life in General

Wednesday, Nov. 20
Club 2000: College night Dance
Comedy Zone: Mike Harvey (hypnotist)
Coyote Joe’s (country): Vic Rorrer & The No Name Band
Double Door: The Newcastle Boys
Jack Straw’s: The Blue Rags w/ Dexter Grove
Ziggy’s (Winston Salem): Uncle Mingo w/ Big Ass Truck

Thursday, Nov. 21
Baha: Retro 80’s Dance night
Comedy Zone: Mike Harvey (hypnotist)
Jack Straw’s: Slackjaw w/ Rossrice
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance (1/2 off before 11pm)
Tremont: Strutter (KISS tribute) w/ Laburnum; It Could Be Nothing; Lou Ford

Friday, Nov. 22
Comedy Zone: Mike Harvey (hypnotist)
Jack Straw’s: Derek Trucks Band
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance (1/2 off before 11pm)
Tremont: Orbital/ Spring Heeled Jack

Saturday, Nov. 23
Baha: Dance (No Cover before 10 p.m.)
Comedy Zone: Mike Harvey (hypnotist)
Jack Straw’s: Granger w/ the Tender Idols
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance (1/2 off before 11pm)
Tremont: It Could Be Nothing/ Engine & Liquid Gang

Sunday, Nov. 24
Comedy Zone: Mike Harvey (hypnotist)
Double Door: Les Moore and Friends
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Free dance lessons at 8:30 p.m. (Salsa & Merengue!)
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance (1/2 off before 11pm)

Club #’s
Double Door Inn: 376-1446
Jack Straw’s: 347-8960
Blockbuster Pavilion: 337-2883
Baha: 525-3343
Coyote Joe’s: 399-4946
Tremont Music Hall: 343-9494
Amos’: 527-6611
Comedy Zone: 568-4242