THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1996 13

Squirrel Nut Zippers electrify Charlotte

By Kate Green & Jason Schmidt
Staff writers

Feeling the vibes from the 20s, a group of Davidson students ventured into Charlotte Friday night to hear the revived
swing sound of Chapel Hill’s The Squirrel Nut Zippers. Despite the Tremont Music Hall’s prison-like cinder block structure, The Squirrel
Nut Zippers filled the entire space with their unusual sound, compiled of such varied elements as the swing sound of
the 20s, modern-day ska, traditional jazz, and the half-time sounds of South Iredell High Vikings’ marching band.

To the delight of the diverse crowd, the band played for over two hours, broken up into two hour-long sets.
Each set mixed songs from the group’s two albums with new material, which the band has plans to record in
the near future. Not only did they mix the tunes selected, but they also varied the sounds from the slow
whine of the trumpet to the fast-paced rhythms of the banjo.

Generally, the upbeat tunes were extremely easy to dance to, but the mellow pieces were much less inspiring. The quick-tempoed
song, “I Found a New Baby,” which senior Morgan Todd describes as their “sassiest and spunkiest” piece, captured the band’s
energy and ability to intertwine all musical threads into their unusual sound. The haunting melodies of slower numbers, such as
“Lover’s Lane,” were not musically exploratory and dampened the creative force of the band.

The band members are just as funky as their music. Katherine Whalen, who causes much debate over her gender due
to her strange female vocals and masculine stage presence, further complicated the issue when she was spotted in both the
men’s and women’s restrooms. Apparently, she dropped a bottle of Stroh’s in limbo between the two locations, exclaimed, “Oh my,
I must get a mop,” and was seen occupying both places. During the mishap, the other band members circulated amongst
the crowd without incident, distributing autographs and friendliness in abundance.

The crowd was as eclectic as the band’s music. Many people dressed in flapper attire and danced with the skills
of a Swing-Kid. Others resembled the usual Davidson folk, with très preppy attire, or the current pop-grunge scene outfits. Energy,
charisma, and good-humoredness abounded.

The evening’s finale was a gargantuan conga line of sixty-some-odd people, initiated by the leadership skills of several Davidson students:
sophomores John Paulas, Asa Hercules, Dewy Ervin, and seniors Morgan Todd and Catherine Sauls. The band was as thrilled as
the crowd and the evening ended in the wails and applause.

By Dorcas and Slim
Consulting Astrologists

CAUTION - EXPLOSIVE. USE ONLY UNDER ADULT SUPERVISION

Virgo (August 23-September 22) - Do a forbidden dance with Dr. Kuykendall. Like one of these: Lambada, Cha-Cha, Flamenco, Tango,
Mambo, or the more docile, Limbo. Dr. K. prefers the merciless macarena. Lucky Loci: Copacabana or the Tropicana.

Libra (September 23-October 22) - Release yourself from the confines of hell. Transfer. Complete floor exercises and stick the landing.
Do NOT do rhythmic gymnastics. It sucks. Lucky Person: Mary Lou Retton or Olga Korbut or Dante.

Scorpio (October 23-November 21) - Pagan pleasures pulsate through your path toward righteousness. Look out. Get a private dancer. Lucky
Music: any old music will do.

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21) - When eating at North Harbor this is your mantra “It don’t matter just don’t bite
it.” Avoid redundancies. Self-instruct yourself alone in a language you’ve never learned before today. Lucky Place: Thunderdome and beyond.

Capricorn (December 22-January 19) - Do not get too close to the sun. Remember Icarus. Your life is better from
a poly-daemonic perspective. Worship many idols. Lucky Icon: Vladimir Madonna or Toilet Duck.

Aquarius (January 20-February 18) - Giant Puppets are high on a hill with a lonely goatherd. You will be there
too. You whistle back to the lonely goatherd. Lucky Yodel: riiiiiiiiiicccooooooc00000llllllaaaaaaaaaaaa.

Pisces (February 19-March 20) - Go to the roller derby and listen to arena rock. You'll get more than a
feeling. Lucky Movie: Fast Times at Ridgemont High.

Aries (March 21-April 19) - Dabble in Real Estate. Shady deals bear forbidden fruits but mind the Hall of Justice.
If you can name that bird character, then you will live forever. Lucky obscure adjective: avian.

Taurus (April 20-May 20) - A stag’s antlers will bring good fortune. Make sure they are on the stag. The
stag will be near a maypole, but not dancing around it like you should be. Lucky Place: Sherwood Forest or
Narnia.

Gemini (May 21-June 20) - Take this week to observe the customs of the archipelago. Darwin’s studies on analogous structures
will aid you in your journey. Mendelian Genetics will not be helpful. Lucky vessel: HMS Beagle.

Cancer (June 21-July 22) - You again experience the week of a lifetime. You are so unbelievable that golden light
forms a mandorla around you. Everyone worships you for the god and/or goddess you are. You don’t need luck, everywhere
you go you are a miracle.

Leo (July 23-August 22) - Sing this: 12345. 678910. 11twelve. This message was brought to you by the letters k
and r and the number 8. Lucky Children’s Programming: Lambchop’s Play-Along. Perpetually unlucky children’s programming: Barney.

KHARDESIGNERS
A full-service salon specializing in men’s and women’s hairstyles.

SouthLake Shopping Center
Suite 106
Next to Lonestar
892-3067

Now carrying 8 lines of products.

Honey On The Inside Honey On Double Sandwich!

Buy 1 Sandwich - Get 1 Sandwich* FREE!

LAKE NORMAN - CORNELIUS
IRS Southlake Shopping Center
1-77 at Highway 73 (Exit 28)
(Near Harris Teeter and Roses)
Phone 892-9592 Fax 892-9593
