THE DAVIDSONIAN

Joseph Hayworth

The face of Davidson is about to change forever. By the end of the fall semester, keycard doors will become
a familiar sight on the Chambers building. As the locks go up, I find that one of the philosophies of
Davidson might change as well once Chambers has been transformed. The college has always valued and even prided itself on
its openness to the community and the world, and it was this friendliness that first attracted me to this campus.
As a visual symbol of this welcoming spirit, the Chambers Building has greeted me and many other prospective students at
one time or another for over seventy years. Its open, unlocked, and welcoming ambiance not only allowed me the opportunity
to converse with teachers and students alike, but was also a decisive factor in my decision to attend Davidson. It
is this openness that I’m afraid will be lost once keycards are installed and all of the antiquated doors currently
on the building are removed.

Even though the town and the college will hopefully still be as hospitable as they were before, I fail to
understand why, when we have both a small campus and an award-winning campus police department, we will not be able
to offer security without these measures. Haven’t most female students been offered courses in self-defense? If nobody has been harmed,
injured, or assaulted in Chambers after hours since it was built, why are these actions necessary now?

Here’s a quick quiz. It’s 2:00 am and you’ve still got some studying to do. Little Library and the Union
are both closed. Your dorm hall is so noisy it could easily be considered the campus dance club. This makes
it nearly impossible to think (much less study) there. It’s too dark to study outside. And the library’s 24-hour room
resembles an insane asylum. Where do you usually go? If you are like me, you probably have already made a
late-night pilgrimage to Chambers this year in search of a silent sanctuary to study in. No matter what hour you
arrive there, the hall lights are on 24 hours a day, seven days a week for your convenience. While the
campus police make regular patrols of Chambers every night, and the protection of college property is a priority, I fail
to see the necessity of these new security measures.

Heyward Carter

Backlash

Having a vested interest in the success of the Class of 2000, I am offering advice that I was never
given to make your lives a little better.

1) Don’t be “that guy.” As in, “that guy who can open beer bottles with his butt cheeks” or “that
girl who threw up on Dr. Kuykendall.” You will always be “that guy,” at least until you do something more
stupid.

2) Don’t grow facial hair. It’s not as cool as you think. Aside from the look your parents will give
you when you go home for Thanksgiving, there is very little value in a goatee or anything equally obnoxious. Besides,
if you are like I was as a freshman, you are not going to be very good at it anyway.

3) Get a cool nickname. Like KingPin, or Zombie Jim, or Pinto. Anything with “Dawg” behind it is a definite
winner. Initials, like KG, are good too. However, you should avoid signing papers with your nickname or wearing t-shirts with
your nickname on it. Everyone else might not know just how cool you are.

4) Keep your head down. If you feel compelled to speak up in class, do it if you must. But
otherwise, it is best not to get a reputation for anything as a freshman. This sort of falls under being
“that guy,” but you have three and a half more years to ruin your reputation, so why blow it all
now?first semester freshman year?

5) Never ever ask a senior what they are going to do when they graduate. This makes them sad and
often violent. You could get hurt. In fact, if you really have to talk to someone older than you, go
with juniors. Seniors are jaded and probably wouldn’t talk to you anyway, and sophomores are just as stupid as you,
except they know it.

6) Learn how to deny the validity of the question. Virtually every question that you don’t know the answer to
can be argued about. If the question isn’t valid, then your answer can’t be wrong, only confusing. Stated simply, everything
in college is apples and oranges. If the professor wants apples, give them oranges, and lots of them. A related
point: every essay question in any history class can be answered by talking about “socio-political changes.”

7) You are not as cute/smart/tan as they say you are. Every year, the entering freshman class is supposed to
be the smartest or best smelling in history, but that is a lie to keep you from dropping out and
to motivate the sophomores. No one believes it anymore, except the freshmen and their parents. Look around you. This really
shouldn’t come as a shock.

Chambers will always be there. I feel that something will be missing if keycards are installed. Maybe it’s just me,
but I don’t like the idea of a silent Chambers suddenly being interrupted by the exasperating sirens that keycard doors
make when they’re kept open too long. Somehow I don’t think those of us who go to Chambers to study
will be very thrilled about that. In the dorms that noise really doesn’t matter, but in Chambers it will only
serve as a source of frustration to the students who seek solitude there.

There seem to be two major concerns that have been used to justify why keycards are needed on Chambers: Student
safety and yet it is the powers-that-be’s opinion that keycards will better ensure student safety. But why bother if such
measures are unnecessary? Haven’t most female students been offered courses in self-defense? Hasn’t the college already spent money to add
more exterior lights at night? And can’t most students studying in Chambers lock the doors of the classroom that they’re
in? It is the opinion of the campus police that keycards on Chambers are needed to take a “proactive” rather
than "retro-active” stance on student safety, but if nobody has been harmed, injured, or otherwise assaulted in Chambers after hours
since it was built, why are these actions needed now?

Safety or Tradition? It doesn’t make sense to destroy the last remaining symbol of what all of Davidson used to
be purely for the sake of security. Which is more important to the students here—tradition or safety? You can’t decide
because the decision has already been made for you.

Another justification for the installation of keycards was the protection of college property, mainly the 24-hour computer labs there. It
would seem a better idea to me to put up keycard accesses on these areas only rather than lock up
the entire building. You don’t have to contain an entire building just to protect a part of it. There are
a variety of alternative solutions that could protect both the students and the equipment. More police officers, surveillance cameras, and
more lighting are the first that come to my mind. It breaks my heart that to the next generation of
Davidsonians the idea of an unlocked, 24-hour classroom building will be all but a forgotten memory of the past. It
appears that safety and security problems seem to have finally made their impact here. While the administration and the campus
police see keycards as the most cost-effective solution, it is not tradition.

Write for Opinions. Call Nina or Kristen at x2148.
