THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

PROFILE: ABIGAIL SHOWALTER

Sophomore singer earns first in state competition

By CHAD FOGLEMAN
Staff Writer

Abigail Showalter confesses, “I didn’t think much of voice” upon entering Davidson last year, “but now I’m a music major!” The sophomore from Lewisburg, Pennsylvania recently placed first (tied, actually) in the National Association of Teachers of Singing statewide competition held at Meredith College in Raleigh.

In earning her first in the collegiate sophomore women’s division, Showalter was judged against singers from schools throughout North Carolina, including large universities such as Appalachian and East Carolina and North Carolina School of the Arts.

Diane Thorton, Showalter’s voice instructor, marvels, “there is quite a bit of talent floating around among these 1500 would-be doctors and lawyers.” Three years ago, Thorton began at Davidson teaching only three students; today, the vocal program has “mushroomed.” Students are choosing to sing “challenging classical pieces as opposed to Broadway, and handling it very well,” notes Thorton.

Each contestant prepared a repertoire of four pieces; Showalter, accompanied on the piano by freshman Aaron Lesher, chose for her first piece Puccini’s “O Mio Babbino Caro,” and the judges selected “Wie Melodien Zieht Es” by Brahms and Argento’s “Diaphenia” for the remaining three.

Last year (in her freshman debut) Showalter placed third and advanced to the regional contest. Unfortunately, she is unable to make this year’s trip to Maryland and compete at a higher level. Still, for Showalter, who’s also a member of Davidson’s Chamber and Concert Choirs, the singing is what’s “fun.”

Be on the lookout for BachFest ‘96 at the end of this month, when you can catch Abigail and the rest of her compadres at Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte.

“Small World” pieces together new order

By ANNA KEMP
Guest Writer

The Davidson College Union Gallery committee is currently exhibiting 18 collages by artist David Kamm in the Union Gallery. Kamm uses original woodcuts, lithographs, and etchings to create his works which are part of his touring exhibition, “Pages from a Small World.”

He says the exhibition “combines various aspects of two different media. Printmaking — woodcuts, lithographs, and etchings — provides the basic visual vocabulary and lends specific types of marks and surfaces to the work. It also offers a format of sequential image manipulation which is characteristic of many print processes.”

“Collage incorporates actual objects into the finished work, in this case the reality of previously existing prints. It also contributes unexpected juxtapositions through the deconstruction and reconstruction of forms which search for significance other than that of surface appearance.

“I have come increasingly to believe that it is not coincidence that these works are created in a culture which threatens increasing fragmentation, where a bombardment of bits and pieces is meant to substitute for the whole, and fragments represent totalities, where each person is left to bring order out of chaos the best they can.”

He will be conducting a collage printmaking workshop in the Visual Arts Center printmaking studio Thursday, March 21, at 7:30 p.m. This workshop is free and open to all students. If interested, sign up at the Union information desk by noon Wednesday, March 20.

The exhibition will run to March 24, when it will continue its tour across the country. Preparation of this exhibit was made possible in part by a grant from the Iowa Arts Council.

A Forum on Male Responsibility: Find out “Why Men Hit” in the 900 Room 4 p.m.-6 p.m.

Dean Rusk Program Speaker enlightens us about global events in the 900 Room 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m.

Jumpin’ Java inspires one and all with an open poetry reading in the Outpost 8 p.m.-12 a.m.

Coffeehouse perks up your morning in the 900 Room 8 a.m.-11 a.m.

Christina Hoff Sommers asks “Who Stole Feminism?” in Love Auditorium 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m.

The State of Feminism responds to Christina Hoff Sommers in 900 Room 11 a.m.-1 p.m.

“Women Around the World” inspires more feminism at Davidson in the Big Screen Room 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m.

Ed Wood plays in the 900 Room 9:30 p.m.-11 p.m.

Open Forum on Minors needs support to convince faculty to endorse minors in Chambers Gallery 4 p.m.

Crop Lunch fills you up in the 900 Room 11 a.m.-2 p.m.

Marriage, Career, and Family — these conundrums explained in the Big Screen Room 7 p.m.-9 p.m.

Professor Eric Chaisson speaks in the 900 Room 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m.

Ed Wood plays in the 900 Room 8 p.m.-10 p.m.

Anonymous 4 entertains in Love Auditorium 8:15 p.m.-10 p.m.

Jumpin’ Java stirs your spring-fevered soul 2 p.m.-6 p.m. in the Outpost.

Layman’s Daughter in Concert creates an alternative in the 900 Room 10 p.m.-12 a.m.

Jumpin’ Java jump starts your studying 8 p.m.-12 a.m. in the Outpost.

SUMMER HELP NEEDED IN THE ADMISSION OFFICE!!

If you're interested in being a tour guide, entering data, and general office duties, please apply by sending resume to Judy Jordan through campus mail or e-mail (jujordan@davidson.edu). We will consider all applications received by March 22.