THE DAVIDSONIAN

Candidates narrowed for Batten Professorship
List is confidential, but hopes are high for celebrity professor

By STEPHEN CEFALU
Staff Writer

The James Knox Batten Professorship in Public Policy is scheduled to be inaugurated during the 1997-98 academic year at Davidson
College. The Batten Professorship search committee, chaired by Dean of Faculty Robert Williams, hopes to entice a highly accomplished professional
with distinguished experience in public policy to the interdisciplinary position.

The Batten Professor would serve for one semester of an academic year as instructor of two courses and, in addition,
provide a series of public lectures and seminars.

After thorough review of all student and faculty nominations for the position, the search committee officially narrowed its selection list
to six candidates at a meeting held on Thursday, November 7th.

The confidential candidate list has now been submitted to Davidson College president, John Kuykendall, who will approach the chosen candidates
in listed order of priority concerning the offered position.

Williams notes that further nominations for the professorship are still encouraged since a new individual will need to be chosen
for the position annually, and the receptiveness of the currently designated nominees has yet to be gauged.

The Batten Professorship is made possible through a one-million dollar endowment provided by the Knight Foundation.

The professorship honors the late James Knox Batten, a Davidson College alumnus, whose distinguished career in journalism and public policy
included service as chairman and CEO of Knight-Ridder, Inc.

In keeping with the legacy of James Batten, Williams says, “The college seeks an active, civic-minded individual whose wisdom and
insight will be an asset to the entire campus community.”

Davidson College junior Matthew Hobbie, an SGA senator and member of the Batten Professorship search committee, says of the committee’s
objective: “We really want to bring a bonafide celebrity to campus, someone who would be freely accessible and exciting to
converse with regularly on an informal basis.”

NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1996

Into the Streets Week came to a close last week, highlighted by a Michael Stoops Box Sleepout on Friday and
Painting at the Uptown Men’s Shelter on Saturday.

The Michael Stoops Box Sleepout was coordinated by Sophomore Jill Williams. She conceived the idea during her trip to Washington,
D.C. last spring, where she worked in a homeless shelter.

“I spoke with a man who was interested in starting a library in the homeless shelters, and it turned out
that he was a Davidson graduate. At that point I decided that I wanted to do something to spread homeless
awareness.”

Williams added that the purpose of the sleepout is not to show students how it feels, “because students know that
they can go back to their homes in the morning.” Rather, the sleepout is a “time to reflect on hunger
and learn what it is.”

There are currently 75 students who plan to participate, as well as two homeless people from Charlotte, and Michael Stoops,
the head of the National Coalition for the Homeless.

Anna Judy

Into the shelter for Into the Streets

By ANDREW PRESTON
Staff Writer

On Saturday, led by Senior Sezmin Noorani, students painted the Uptown Men’s Shelter in Charlotte.

Last week Noorani and a few other students worked in the shelter’s ‘clothes closet’. “We distributed clothes and basic necessities
like soap to the homeless people there,” Noorani says.

Patterson Court also did its part to support the week with a Fun Run on Thursday, headed by Mary Margaret
Cochrane, the Service Chair of Rusk. Over one hundred people participated, and over $300 was raised for the Ada Jenkins
Center.

EVERYONE IS INVITED TO CELEBRATE THE COMPLETION OF THE JETTONS' NEW HOME WITH THEM AND THE DAVIDSON HABITAT COMMUNITY

3 P.M. SUNDAY NOV. 17 AT THE HOMESITE EASTSIDE TERRACE DAVIDSON
