THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1996

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
JAMES BERRY

Copy Editor
MARY CLARE JALONICK
CARRIE BLACKBURN

Asst. Arts & Living Editor
MARY TOWLES ALLISON

Associate Editor
TERESA WHITE
KATHERINE HASH

Sports Editor
WILL BRADSHAW

Assistant Business Manager
CATHERINE ANDERSON

Assistant Sports Editor
MICHAEL KRUSE

Assistant News Editors
NARESH NAGELLA
BEN GRIFFIN

Advertising Managers
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
BONNER MEAD

Photography Editor
JOSH GLAZER

Opinions Editor
KATIE McKELVIE

Asst. Photography Editor
CHLOE BROOKE

Circulation Manager
ROBBIE LEE

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

LETTERS

Working with what we have

Davidson is a very small school. Davidson, NC is a very small town. Most of us like it this way.
How cute. How perfect. How familiar. Sometimes we find ourselves afraid to change. “What is this Libertas?” “What are they
going to put in it?” “We don’t need another newspaper.” Why not? Davidson always has the potential to grow. Isn’t
that why we are here? We came to college so we could expand our minds, grow through ourselves, and rise
to new levels of achievement.

Rachel Cockrill jokes about how Davidson fosters regression. We must admit that no matter how many classes we take, no
matter how much we are taught to think analytically or write skillfully, we can easily fall into a deep academic
and social rut. Go to Chambers. Think up a storm. Go to the library. Read volumes. Go to the computer
center. Write a short novel. Go to the Union. Eat a ton of Hohos. Go to the Court. Drink a
keg. Maybe this isn’t everyone’s life. Some rebel; however, many walk this path for four years, somewhat blindly.

Weren’t you happy when you found out about Cosmic Coffee? Caribou Coffee? What about Breuger’s Bagels? The Stock Car Cafe?
Kudzu? Polly Griffin wants to make our lives easier with a new phone system so we don’t have to wait
all summer to get our grades. And even plans for a new Union! It’s all about growing; it’s all about
change.

Change. It needs to happen. It won’t, though, if no one takes the bull by the horns. Churchill Hooff has
dedicated most all of his Davidson career to reviving WALT, which will officially begin broadcasting this week. At least 50
student broadcasters are going to contribute their talents, some of which they don’t even know they have yet, to create
something. We salute WALT. We salute the entrepreneurs who are attempting to give us something else to do than gnome-shopping.
And we salute Libertas, an idea that has been a long time coming. Libertas is not Davidson’s new newspaper; it
is Davidson’s answer to the dearth of publications available to students. The Davidsonian has a different purpose and a different
personality. Libertas’ first issue cleared that up for everyone. There was no dramatic coup. Just an improvement upon the status
quo, an opportunity to see Davidson from a different perspective.

We say goodbye and thank you to Mandy, Bobby, William, and Russ and congratulate you on your new venture. We
will now build on your successes as best as we can. We also welcome Warren, Clair, Sara Beth, Jenny, Mecie,
Katie, John, etc... You are our new student leaders. We put Davidson into your hands for 1996, and we challenge
you to build on a good thing, help it to grow and blossom into everything it can be. We know
you, we know you can do it, and we have faith in you and productive change.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices
are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or
commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Join Wildcat habitat in house-raising ceremony

To the editors,

SO...

A. You want to get involved somehow.
B. Helping others sounds like a positive thing.
C. You can survive about three hours without checking your e-mail.
D. All of the above.above. If any of these options apply to you, then you may be just right for
participating in the Wildcat Habitat adventure as Davidson College builds its first-ever Habitat for Humanity house. Come see what it
is all about at the House-Raising Ceremony, which will be held in conjunction with Solidarity Week, at high noon on
February 10. The ceremony—don’t worry; lunch will be provided—will be held at the Wildcat Habitat construction site on Westside Terrace,
at the base of the water tower. Look for directions on the newly-repainted kiosk (great job, H.T.!) in front of
the Union. And, when you get to the ceremony, take some time to meet the Jettons, who have been chosen
as the family who will live in the home. So that they don’t seem like strangers when you run into
them at the House-Raising, let me tell you a little bit about the Jettons.

I had the wonderful opportunity to meet them recently, and it was indeed a pleasurable experience. Danny Jetton grew up
in Huntersville and graduated from North Mecklenburg High School. Danny and Etheleen met in NY, and she moved down here
with him after they were married in 1986. Their personalities complement each other extremely well. Danny is calm and quiet;
he carefully watched his playing children while we talked, always keeping their actions in check. Etheleen, on the other hand,
was very enthusiastic about being a part of the program. “Our dream has been to own a home,” Etheleen said.
“We found out about Habitat through a friend at church, and we applied a few years ago. Habitat for Humanity
will help to put us on top financially.” Danny explained that much of their money now goes into the heating
and cooling of their present house because “it is not insulated enough.” It is also getting kind of small crunching
an entire family into a two-bedroom, one-bathroom house.

Danny and Etheleen have three handsome young boys: Danny, Jr., is 12 and takes his serene manner from his namesake;
Joey, four-and-a-half, is wild, spunky, and good-humored like his mother; Kristopher, a very cute one-year-old, is still trying desperately to
walk without clinging to his parents’ fingers. Fortunately, Joey is able to attend the Headstart Program at the Ada Jenkins
Center, so Kristopher is the only one who needs childcare. Both Danny and Etheleen work outside of the home. Danny
details cars for Huntersville Chevrolet, and Etheleen works with inspection and repair in the manufacturing department at IBM. She would
like to become a buyer for IBM someday. And, as a hobby, Etheleen enjoys selling jewelry at flea markets.

After our little interview, we walked around the inside and then outside of the house, taking pictures of the family
and of their home. Trying to get all of the children to sit still for the family portrait was quite
a task. Little Danny seemed very relaxed about the whole process, but Joey kept wanting more (“Sara, come play with
me!”), tiny Kristopher simply refused to look toward the camera, poor Danny, Sr., changed his shirt at least three times
before he decided on the appropriate outfit, and Etheleen had her happy hands busy trying to get Kristopher into his
sweater and cap and making Joey sit still once they were posed.

The family will have to put in 300 “sweat-equity” hours, in accordance with Habitat’s policy. These hours will include not
only manual labor on the house, but also appearances at various groups to help further the cause. Then, they will
be able to share their experiences with Habitat with groups who will hopefully be persuaded to help out, just as
I hope that all of you will be persuaded to help.

The Wildcat Habitat was started this year at the suggestion of several students who helped with the project in Jacksonville,
Florida, over the summer. A Habitat House Committee meets every Wednesday to plan fundraisers, education opportunities, and other events. The
committee is headed by Smita Donthamsetty (-6730) and Catherine Turner (-2460). Volunteers are needed for anything from making sandwiches for
the workers, to putting up fliers, to babysitting during home basketball games, to helping to paint the house. Pick up
a volunteer application in the library or the Union. This is a project designed for the entire campus of Davidson
College, and we must all work together on it. There are so many ways you can help; please get involved.

Sincerely,
Saralyn J. Damani
