THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
MONDAY, MARCH 25, 1996

Rising Seniors denied housing
By Brooke BAGWELL
Staff writer

This year several groups of rising seniors were wait-listed for housing in Martin Court apartments. Kurt Holmes, Director of the Residence Life Office, cites several factors as influential in the shortage of senior apartments. Apparently, a smaller group of off-campus applicants and a larger class size complicated this year’s lottery and apartment availability.

In recent years, the number of off-campus applicants has dropped. While around a hundred juniors usually apply to live off campus their senior year, only 46 students submitted off-campus applications this year. Holmes says the size of the rising senior class, which is slightly larger than previous years, has also affected housing. Although the class size is not significantly larger, the lottery system has still had difficulties in satisfying the increased number of students. Roommate groups with non-senior members were at a disadvantage with this year’s lottery complications. Groups including juniors suffered from lower lottery numbers and had difficulty securing apartments.

Upcoming senior Susanne Herring says, “It’s just disappointing because I feel like they just tossed us aside. But I guess it’s because there was a junior [who was] going to live with us.”

“I think what is really driving [lottery complications] is whether people apply to go off campus,” says Holmes.

The shortage of senior apartments has generated some concern over the prospects of the lottery for non-senior housing. But Holmes is confident that the lottery system will be successful for the April lotteries. Those who do not obtain the housing of their choice will be put on a waiting list.

SGA storms dorms to mi
By Kirsten RECKNAGEL
Assistant News Editor

The first-ever Dorm Storm, SGA’s latest innovation in better representing the student voice, wound to a close last Friday. Various student groups had differing opinions about the event.

According to Warner Hall Senator Stephanie Morgan, who covered Senior Apartment B with Independent Senator John Ballard, not one student showed up to the meeting planned by the two senators. “I think [seniors] feel like policy changes won’t affect them,” says Morgan.

Junior Class President Saad Gul and Head Independent Senator Brian Luskey, who interviewed seniors in Building C, say about one third of Building C inhabitants responded to Dorm Storm polling. Says Gul, “Students were unhappy with ‘grade deflation’ and perceived indifference to their post-Davidson prospects as a consequence.”

However, the experiences of senators who polled areas other than senior housing were vastly different. Rusk Senator Heather Brown and Freshman Senator Conner Eldridge spoke with freshmen, sophomores, and juniors living in Cannon Residence Hall. According to Brown, Dorm Storming “went really well. I thought we had a great turnout and everyone seemed excited about being approached by the SGA. Students were interested and had some really good ideas.”

Freshman Class Senators John Bell and Katie Sanderson polled Belk’s east and west wings. “In general,” Bell says, “students were certainly responsive.” Bell and Sanderson heard concerns ranging from cat card extensions to insufficient funding for WALT. Co-ed housing was mentioned repeatedly to many senators, and Bell says that students with whom he spoke were “in favor of it in general, but mixed as to whether it would be positive for freshmen.”

In addition, Bell says, “People wanted to see more social events where the whole campus is involved” such as the God Street Wine and Rusted Root concerts held earlier this year.

Irwin and Lingle residences were polled by KA Senator John Frierson and SAE Senator McLean Jenkins. Frierson says discussion®

KArnival entertains community kids
By ANN HATFIELD
Staff Writer

As their spring service project, KA planned and hosted the second annual KArnival this past Saturday. Weather was perfect for the well-received and well-attended children’s event. Baker’s concrete parking lot was transformed into a vibrant fun park complete with Kiddie Swing, Crazy Ball, Cookie Twirl, Space Jump, balloons, ice cream, snacks and refreshments. All attractions were completely free for participants. Fraternity brothers with painted faces and clown costumes manned face-painting booths and urged kids to “test their strength” and participate in other games.

Junior carnival organizer Allen Marshall reports that all fraternity brothers were involved with the carnival, but that pledges played an integral role in the success of the carnival. Marshall thanks Davidson students, Harris Teeter,Olé Olé restaurant, and a myriad of other businesses for their financial support. Stressing that the money goes to Muscular Dystrophy, Marshall urges students to buy a carnival t-shirt. With such a great response, KA plans to make their spring carnival an annual event.

Kelton from page 1

“I don’t want to suggest that I limit access to the President,” he said, calling the position an “extension of the [President’s] Office.” Third parties seem to agree on the importance of the position. Dean of Students Tom Shandley calls it “crucial.” And the President’s secretary for ten years, Denise Howard, having watched who goes in and out of his office in the course of the week, agrees. She says it’s “important that we have someone who is able to work with the faculty on a day-to-day basis in the way [President Kuykendall’s] calendar won’t allow.” She terms it a “major role.”

Kelton’s explanation for leaving is simple. “I’m 68 right now, will be 69 in September, and 70 three months after June of ’97. That’s the short of it,” he says. “My wife and I want more time to ourselves, our children, our grandchildren,” and so forth. Kelton is leaving now so that a replacement can have the 1996-97 academic year to get acquainted with the position. This way, the new president, who should arrive in the fall of 1997, will have a knowledgeable assistant for at least a year, should he choose to retain him or her. Kelton, who would not be willing to serve two additional years, has chosen to leave the Executive Assistant position now in a sort of gradual retirement. He will continue as the Director of Institutional Research for an additional year.

Those faculty or staff who are interested in the position are asked to bring a resume and cover letter to the President’s Office by April 3. Howard reports that, as of now, one application from an administrator has been received, though there have been several other inquiries.

About minors was popular, and he found that “there was a strong voice to stay Division I in sports.” Mixed results with a perceived lack of communication between students and faculty. As expected, talk of the impending keg ban dominated many discussions. Each pair of senators will prepare a report of their findings to be collected this Tuesday by Freshman Class Senator Jonathan Sipling, Chair of the Polling and Response Committee. According to Sipling, the Committee, which includes all freshman Senators as well as SGA Chancellor Adam Hickey, will present a final, comprehensive report on Dorm Storm findings to the SGA in early April. Several senators were approached by students concerned.

Phi Beta Kappa lecturer Eric Chaisson addresses complexity in the universe

By Laura Allen
Staff Writer

“We now live in the golden age of astrophysics,” says Eric Chaisson, author, educator, and astrophysicist, at his lecture entitled “Cosmic Evolution and Complexity in the Universe.” Chaisson, a Phi Beta Kappa visiting lecturer, showed slides of recent photographs from the Hubble telescope and discussed their implications, saying the pictures were “like looking at the universe through a straw,” giving a hint of the undiscovered. He gathered information about the origin of the universe, about which very little is known. To illustrate the interdisciplinary technique, he compared slides of hurricanes to those of galaxies, pointing out similarities in spiral patterns, differential rotation, and the eye of the hurricane, which resembles the hole in the center of galaxies. He suggests that by learning about the origin of hurricanes, more can be learned about the origin of galaxies.

Chaisson also spoke about the future of the universe. He says, “There becomes a point where technological beings can manipulate matter much more than matter can manipulate them.” He says that “we are now potentially at the onset of a whole new era,” which he termed “the Life Era.” “The dilemma,” says Chaisson, “is that civilizations like ours gain the ability to unlock secrets and also gain tools to do us in before we can move from the threshold of the ‘Matter Era’ into the ‘Life Era,’ which could contain much sought-after knowledge.”

WORK IN DAVIDSON THIS SUMMER

SUMMER EMPLOYMENT IN PHYSICAL PLANT

THE PHYSICAL PLANT IS NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR SUMMER WORKERS. POSITIONS AVAILABLE IN GROUNDS, PAINTING, ZONE MAINTENANCE, BUILDING SERVICES, MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL SHOPS. INTERESTED STUDENTS SHOULD CONTACT IRVIN BRAWLEY IN COURT #10, EXT. 2119 OR SYLVIA MCDANIEL IN COURT #9, EXT. 2220. APPLICATION DEADLINE—APRIL 15, 1996.