THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1996

Greg Garrison ‘97, author of Ramblin’ Man

By STEPHEN CEFALU
Staff Writer

Rarely does the literary world encounter an author brazen enough to incorporate Elvis Presley, voodoo, religion, and gender politics all into his debut novel. But that is precisely what Greg Garrison, a Davidson senior and math major, has done. Garrison’s premier work, Ramblin’ Man, is a 400-page mystery novel which he wrote in a frenzied five-week span in the spring of 1995. Now Greg is already hard at work on a sequel to Ramblin’ Man, called Rainy Day Women.

Set in modern-day Carolina, both of Garrison’s works are casual in tone and designed to speak directly to the reader. Garrison says of Ramblin’ Man, “I wanted it to be both deep and funny.” With a strong storyline and attention to character development, Garrison feels he accomplished what he set out to in writing Ramblin’ Man. “I wanted to give to other people what writers have been giving to me all my life,” says Garrison.

Among a diverse group of personal influences, Garrison cites Mark Twain, Jimmy Buffet, and Walker Percy. A lover of pulp fiction, Garrison describes writing mysteries as “fun and easy,” though the writing spree that produced Ramblin’ Man was not devoid of intensity. Garrison describes himself during that time period as “consumed by the novel.”

Garrison classifies himself as a modernist, but his first priority is good storytelling. In this respect, Garrison says he’s benefited from his experience with films and cartoons. As for his reading audience, Garrison says, “I want to encourage in them a desire to grab on to life, to live it 100 percent.”

The few who have glimpsed the as yet unpublished Ramblin’ Man have noted in particular its realistic dialogue and sophisticated humor. However, Garrison says Ramblin’ Man was mostly spontaneous. “I just wanted to get it down on paper, to find out, myself, what was going to happen next in the story.”

MAIN STREET AND CONCORD OR HOLLYWOOD AND VINE?

Don’t miss SGA DAY on Thursday, October 3. Come enjoy hamburgers, gardenburgers, chips, drinks, and music. Sign up for SGA committees.

THE MONTH IN CRIME

Towing 9/1/96 0500 hours
Larceny of bicycle parts 9/14/96 9345 hours
Larceny of bicycle parts

Unknown person(s) took front bicycle parts. When victims looked toward them, they saw a Pontiac Grand Am pull away. Traffic Collision policy will remain in effect. If illegal parking increases after these next two weeks, we’ll have no choice but to start towing again.

“We’ve been looking at the problem since the beginning of the semester,” says Junior Class President Lucian Dervan, co-chair of the SAC on Public Safety. Dervan explains that when the semester began, “the greatest problem was seen to be the new $80 vehicle registration fee, not the towing situation.” However, as the year progressed, student complaints about frequent towings continued. “The reason the police department [initially] chose to tow was that tickets weren’t enough of a deterrent to...Keep students from parking [in faculty] spaces,” says Dervan. Dervan notes that the towing agreement pertains only to faculty spaces. Any student illegally parked in visitor parking “is still going to be towed,” he says, “along with [illegally parked cars in] handicapped spaces and fire lanes.” In addition, students who park in the laundry lot—even on weekends—will continue to be towed.

Unknown person(s) removed various parts from a green Alight Novara bicycle from the exterior bicycle rack of Irwin dorm: 1 bicycle seat, 1 bicycle front tire, 1 bicycle front shock absorber, and a set of bicycle front brakes were taken. The combined value of the items was $155.

9/1/96 0900 hours
Larceny of bicycle
Unknown person(s) removed an unsecured bike parked on the third floor of Apartment F. The bicycle was listed as a Trek 6500 mountain bike, 18 inches high, silver/blue in color, $700 in value.

9/1/96 1301 hours
Larceny of bicycle
Unknown person(s) removed the victim’s unsecured 16-speed Univega mountain bike parked in the east side bike rack of Apartment F. The bike is silver/blue, 16 inches high, valued at $600.

9/1/96 1310 hours
Larceny of bicycle wheel
Unknown person(s) removed a bicycle wheel, 21 inches in diameter, valued at $50 from a locked bike in the rack in front of Little dorm. The wheel was a quick-release type from a Trek 820 mountain bike.

9/1/96 1325 hours
Larceny of bicycle
Unknown person(s) took 1 Red Pro Flex 21-speed mountain bike from the rack in front of Little dorm.

9/1/96 1330 hours
Larceny of bicycle
Unknown person(s) took the victim’s 21-speed 19-inch purple Cannondale 500 mountain bike from the yard next to the handicapped ramp at Flowe 103.

9/2/96 1805 hours
Indecent Exposure
Glasgow Road and Lingle Manor
Victims state that an unknown male exposed his genitals to them. Victims were jogging on Glasgow Road at the entrance to Lingle Manor when they observed a man toward a vehicle, the driver had his pants down and was exposing himself. The suspect, a white male with a large build, mid-length blond hair, was wearing a button-down Oxford shirt. The vehicle had tinted windows and an unknown tag.

9/3/96 1730 hours
Larceny of bicycle seat
Unknown person(s) removed the seat of a locked bicycle from the rack in front of Irwin dorm. The black seat had a value of $80 and was taken from a green Cannondale M500 21-speed.

9/8/96 1100 hours
Larceny from Belk 2nd East Lounge
Unknown person(s) removed items from the victim’s unattended bookbag. Property taken was one Texas Instruments Ti-85 black graphing calculator at an estimated value of $100, and one Sharp Wizard electronic datebook, also at an estimated value of $100.

Driver was traveling west on Patterson Court approaching Irwin dorm. Driver failed to start bearing left for the turn ahead, causing the driver to strike one parked vehicle, which caused a domino effect involving three other parked vehicles.

9/16/96 1533 hours
Larceny from a building—Johnston Gym storage area
Unknown person(s) removed clothing from sealed storage boxes in the gym, sometime between 5/16/96 and 8/24/96. Approximately 28 items of women’s clothing were taken, at an estimated value of $890.

9/21/96 2159 hours
Damage to property
Unknown person(s) damaged the southeast brick retaining wall that encloses Richardson Plaza at the rear of Chambers. Approximately half the wall was knocked off, probably by a large delivery-type vehicle. Damage was estimated at $600.