THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, APRIL 1, 1996

15

Team hits road skid

Baseball loses heartbreaker to Wake

KEVIN ZVARGULIS
Staff Writer

Wednesday, the baseball team visited Wake Forest, trying to stretch their winning streak to three games.

Wake Forest transfer, Luke Goodwin continued to haunt his old team, leading off the game with a double and eventually
scoring. Wake Forest scored twice in the bottom of the first, but Davidson rallied back with two in the second
and third innings making the score 5-2.

Jeff Andrews pitched well for Davidson holding the Demon Deacons at two until the seventh inning, when Wake Forest freshman
outfielder Pat Malloy tied the game with his third home run of the year off Davidson pitching.

Andrews was removed in the eighth inning after surrendering a lead-off double. Mordecai Stolk came on in relief but could
not prevent the run from scoring as Wake took the lead.

The Demon Deacon flame-throwing closer Sean DePaula (93 mph) turned the Wildcats down in order in the ninth.

Over the weekend the team traveled to Georgia Southern University for a three-game series. In the first game of Saturday’s
doubleheader, the Wildcats lost by a score of 13-3.

“They just knocked the cover off the ball,” said Davidson first baseman Brad Edwards.

Nevertheless, Chris Pollard went out in the second game and shut down that potent Georgia Southern line-up, pitching a no-hitter
through five innings. Davidson was up by three runs, when in the bottom of the sixth, Pollard surrendered back-to-back home
runs to bring Georgia Southern within one run going into the last inning. With two outs and the bases loaded
in the bottom of the seventh, Georgia Southern won the game on a two-run single 4-3.

Sunday, the one bright spot in the game for the Wildcats was a solo home run by first baseman Brad
Edwards as the Cats lost their fourth in a row 7-2.

“This was definitely the best team we’ve played all year,” said Davidson catcher Kurt Davis.

Weekly Schedule

Men’s and Women’s Track
Sat. @ Wake Forest
Apr. 12-13 @ Duke

Baseball
Tues. vs. UNC-G 3:00
Wed. @ Duke 3:00
Fri. @ Marshall (2) Noon
Sat. @ Marshall 1:00
Apr. 9 @ NC State 7:00
Apr. 11 @ App. St. 7:00
Apr. 13 @ VMI (2) Noon
Apr. 14 @ VMI 1:00

Men’s Tennis
Tues. vs. Elon 2:30
Sat. @ Wake Forest Inv.
Apr. 11 @ UNCC 2:30

Women’s Tennis
Tues. @ Furman 3:00
Thur. vs. Marshall 2:30
Apr. 8 @ Va. Tech Noon
Apr. 9 @ GSU 2:00
Apr. 11 vs. ETSU 2:30

Women’s Lacrosse
Sat. @ Monmouth 11:00 am
Apr. 9 @ American 3:00
Apr. 13 @ Longwood Noon
Apr. 14 vs. N St. Mary’s @ Va. Tech 4:00

Rugby
Apr. 13 vs. UNC 1:00

DESIGN DETAIL

NO.27

THE ESSENTIAL WARDROBE.

New Transition Necessities from Harold’s

GREAT JOB OPPORTUNITY!

Childcare needed for full-time summer and part-time during the school year. Looking for someone energetic to take care of and
entertain two energetic children ages 5 & 8 to do fun things like going to the park, swimming, and the
movies. Must be responsible, have a car and a good driving record. Located in Wynfield subdivision in Huntersville.

Call Tina at 948-0012.

With today's updated styles, denim has become a year-round favorite. From short sleeve blouses to zippered vests.

And what do you put with your new denim tops? Start with a fun printed bottom, like a short skirt
or a pair of printed pants. Our exclusive florals, geometrics, and provencal prints make spirited foundations for basic tops.

Exclusively at Specialty Shops on the Park, Charlotte

To receive our free men’s and ladies’ catalog call 1-800-676-5373
