Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

VOLUME LXXXVII MONDAY, APRIL 22, 1996 NUMBER 24

Trustees uphold religious ties with vote

Non-Christians can now be members of the religion department, but not the board of trustees

By Mary Clare JALONICK Executive Editor

After three years of talks, meetings, surveys, and debates, the trustees have finally voted on all three religion issues. The requirements for the president and the trustees will remain intact, but non-Christians may now serve in the department of religion. It is noted, though, that “special effort shall be made to secure as teachers in the Department of Religion persons who, in addition to competence in their fields, demonstrate vital Christian faith and unusual teaching gifts.” In making these decisions, the trustees are reaffirming their...

SGA charters and by-laws committee recommends not to renew IVCF charter

By Kirsten RECKNAGEL Assistant News Editor

The fate of IVCF’s charter was the subject of serious debate at Tuesday’s meeting and has not yet been decided. In an announcement that surprised many, its renewal was not recommended by the Charters and By-laws Committee, although IVCF has existed as a chartered body for the past three years. Senior Alison Sabel, chair of the committee, explains that the Charters and By-laws Committee declined to recommend renewal of IVCF’s charter because in a recent amendment to its constitution, “IVCF states that a practicing homosexual cannot be a leader in that organization.” For this reason, she says, the committee felt it possible that IVCF policy violates SGA by-laws and the Davidson College non-discrimination policy.

Within minutes of the meeting, word of the controversy surrounding the SGA’s debate about the renewal of InterVarsity Christian Fellowship’s (IVCF) charter had spread across campus. Both inside and outside the classroom, students pondered the situation’s legal ramifications and debated the issue in terms of morality. However, throughout the past week, many individuals formed opinions based more on hearsay than on actual circumstance. As is often the case, the true facts of this emotionally charged issue lie beneath an ever-increasing heap of rumors and misinformation.

The agenda for the April 16 SGA meeting included the annual Senate vote on the renewal of charters of those student organizations who had submitted applications for renewal. A charter grants three major privileges to a student organization, including official recognition as a Davidson organization and the right to represent Davidson College outside of the college community, the right to apply for funding by the Activities Tax Council, and priority in reserving campus facilities. Any organization registered through the Office of Student Activities may apply for a charter through the SGA Charters and By-laws Committee by submitting basic information such as the organization’s name, current of...

See IVCF on page 4

John Copenhaver Junior Deaver prepares to give blood in honor of Jack McCarthy, son of Political Science Professor Susan Roberts and Director of Development Kevin McCarthy. A well-attended prayer service was held Friday at DCPC while the two-year-old received chemotherapy for his leukemia in Charlotte.

THIS WEEK

First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC 28036

---

Note: The text has been cleaned up for readability while preserving the original meaning and punctuation.commitment to the Presbyterian Church (USA), as they stated was their goal in their February meeting. The President of the college must still be, according to the by-laws, “a loyal church member, giving evidence of strong Christian faith and commitment through affiliation with the Davidson College Presbyterian Church (USA) and active participation in the life of the college church.” Also remaining is the clause that trustees “shall be active members of a Christian Church.” Thus, non-Christian alumnae cannot be eligible to become trustees. The change in by-laws required a 2/3 vote of those present at the meeting. President John Kuykendall says the debate came down to “governance on one hand and equity on the other.” Chairman of the Board Craig SeeTies on page 5

FINALLY, WE FROLIC! — John Copenhaver

SGA Day was only the beginning to a fun-filled weekend of frolics, free food, formals, and fresh air. Student senators cooked hamburgers, hot dogs, and veggie burgers for the campus, the majority of whom flung their large stacks of crunch-week books aside and came to enjoy the sunny day on the Union Patio.

Trustees ban kegs, table hours issue
Purchase of alcohol not discussed, BYOB not necessary
By BETH Bacon
Staff Writer

The Board of Trustees voted Friday to support the recommendation of the CCRL and President Kuykendall to ban common containers of alcohol at Davidson College. The new policy will go into effect next fall. Prior to the vote, the Trustee Council on Campus and Religious Life Committee received two recommendations from the campus-based Council on Campus and Religious Life (headed by Dean of Students Tom Shandley). The first recommendation was to ban common containers. The second was to extend the hours of weekday parties from the current midnight beer shut off and 12:30 a.m. close to 1:30 a.m. shut off and 2 a.m. close. The Trustee CCRL decided to send the keg issue to the rest of the board, who voted in agreement that they should be banned. However, they decided to table the hours issue until the alcohol policy is more extensively reviewed at the next trustee’s meeting in October.

The new alcohol policy is still under construction. As of now, the guidelines that each house can purchase alcohol are still in effect — eliminating the immediate need for BYOB. This means that fraternities and eating houses will be able to purchase cans. However, Dean of Students Tom Shandley says, “There’s an expectation that we will certainly come back to [the trustees] with a recommendation on quantities allowed for groups who intend to purchase.” There is still much work to be done. Shandley says, “The students who are on the CCRL will do all they can to keep students informed.” SGA President Warren Buford says, “The challenge now is to continue that and come up with a policy that’s not going to endanger the success of our current system.”

Break into Chambers
Heavy doors more secure.
NEWS 3

OPINIONS
El Jefe returns to his old domain. 9

Freaking and na paral: Ah, spring.
ARTS & LIVING 11

Tennis. 5th place finish in Southern Conference Tournament.
SPORTS 13