THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1996

17

Wildcats win conference opener

Women’s soccer splits two, yet sits atop the Southern conference standings after win at GSU

By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

Remley’s Point, S.C. - After seven games the women’s soccer team (3-4, 1-0 in the Southern) has mustered only eight
goals.

“It’s very frustrating to be at this point in the season without a goal-scorer having emerged,” coach Kevin Hundley said.
“We need someone we can count on who we get the ball to in the box and they score.”

In an attempt to create more offense, Amy Balsinger was moved from sweeper into the midfield last week. The team
is 2-2, having scored five goals since the move.

“(Not scoring much) means we can’t afford defensive mistakes. This is not a blaming situation, but we’ve gotta do what
we’ve gotta do,” Hundley continued.

Despite the relative lack of offense, the Wildcats did what they needed to on Saturday, taking an important 2-1 conference
victory at Georgia Southern.

GSU was ranked second behind Davidson in the pre-season conference polls, followed by Furman. Now, both the Eagles and the
Paladins have one loss, while Davidson is tied with App. St. atop the conference standings.

Angie Boyer struck first for the Wildcats, pushing them on top in the 30th minute when she knocked in the
rebound from a corner kick. The Eagles tied the score with under ten seconds to play in the half.

“It was a great job by the subs in the first half. It was a pretty even game for the
first 20 to 25 minutes, but then we brought in the subs and took over. We were pretty unlucky not
to be up two or three (at the break),” coach Kevin Hundley said.

Ginny Dye knocked in her third goal and her second game-winner (both tops on the team) in the 60th minute.

However, an inability to finish doomed the Wildcats on Sunday against the College of Charleston (5-4).

Davidson outshot the Cougars 16 to 7 for the game, and controlled play from the opening minute. However, Charleston finished
two first-half goals and were able to hold off a furious Wildcat rally to win 2-1.

“It’s pretty disappointing,” Hundley said. “It felt more like 60-7 (the number of shots), and I felt like they were
quality chances. But when you don’t finish you don’t win.”

Terry Marino put the first Cougar goal away in the 28th minute. Charleston added one more in the 40th minute
on a counter-attack. Davidson was pressuring, but Charleston cleared the ball downfield where it was collected at mid-field by Carly
Rounds. She carried it to the touchline then hit a back-post cross to Alison McCurry who headed it past goalkeeper
Allison Noznesky.

Kelly Ammann pulled the Wildcats within one, when she knocked a rebound past Cougar goalkeeper Nikki Davis. Ginny Dye’s shot
moments before slipped past Davis, knocked off the post to Ammann’s feet, and she put it away.

But, Davis (11 saves) didn’t let another shot by.

“I thought we’d scored early enough to come back,” Hundley said. “But yesterday we started 1-0 in conference, we'll focus
on that. Our overall record won’t be as good because we’ve lost to two opponents we should have beaten (College
of Charleston and Wofford), but we'll take today’s loss out on App. St. on Wednesday and go up 2-0 in
the conference.”

CELEBRATION

Golf opens season at ECU

By CAMERON MARTIN
Staff Writer

The Davidson golf team finished tenth out of twelve teams at the Pirate Fall Intercollegiate Tournament, shooting 604 for the
two-day event hosted by East Carolina University last week in Greenville, N.C.

Senior Jason Carlock, who played in the National Amateur Tournament this summer, finished seventh individually with a one-over-par score of
145. Other Wildcat competitors were Cabell Fisher, Connor Eldridge, David Alexander, and Daniel Tedrick.

Alexander is encouraged by last week’s results.

“In our first tournament this year, the team showed drastic improvement over the spring season,” he said.

Furman won the tourney, shooting 578 (+2).

Scuba scuba doo

By DANIEL MOTZ
Copy Editor

The Davidson Scuba Club Team, the newest club sport offered at Davidson, looks to get its feet wet this fall.
President Jarett Weinpel equates the program to Davidson Outdoors.

“We'll be taking many trips throughout the year,” Weinpel said. “We’ll be travelling in the Carolinas and beyond, doing all
types of dives.”

Weinpel is particularly excited about a potential program to West Palm Beach over fall break. The first meeting of the
newly founded group is Thursday at 8 p.m. in the Morrisson Room. Whether certified or not, all those interested are
encouraged to attend. Those with questions are asked to call Jarett at x6630.

Give in to peer pressure. Write for Sports.

Nutritional Supplements
Aromatherapy

21316 Davidson St., Cornelius, NC (Adjacent to Lake Norman YMCA)

(704) 896-0089

The volleyball team had reason to celebrate this week as they broke their two-week, nine-game slide by knocking off N.C.
A&T.
