Che Dabidsonian
ALENDA Lux UB ORTA LIBERTAS
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1996
VOLUME 88, NUMBER 10

Student files charges for threatening messages
By Mary Care JALONICK, JOHN COPENHAVER, & TERESA WHITE
Executive Editors

Sophomore Rob Neigert was arrested Friday night after leaving threatening messages on the voicemail of sophomore Robbie Lee. Neigert, intoxicated,
left her a message saying that he wanted to “crack [her] neck and break [her] face” and that she was
going to “die.” Neigert also cut senior Chris Machon’s hand to the bone with an illegal butterfly knife Friday night.
Machon has not pressed charges. Police are currently investigating the situation and will not comment on it or release information
until the investigation is finished. Neigert has hired a lawyer and says he would like to apologize to both Machon
and Lee.

As told by Lee, the night began when Neigert, already intoxicated, started dancing with some of Lee’s friends. Lee was
angered by the aggressive way that he was dancing and “bothering” them. She says that she gave him “bad looks”
and “shoved” him out of the way when he tried to dance with them. She asked some brothers of the
off-campus fraternity, Phi Gamma Delta, to escort him out of the house. According to Lee and another bystander, a scuffle
then ensued. As people attempted to take Neigert out of the house, he became violent. Lee was hit by Neigert
during the commotion, but she isn’t sure if the swing was “accidental or not.” Neigert was then taken out.

See Student files on pages -

Elections '96
Some students rally for Clinton or Dole. Some simply study for the next poli sci test.
By Mary Care JALONICK
Executive Editor

What happens tomorrow? Oh, yeah, Twenty-one year old night. Biology test. NYPD Blue. No, really, the fate of our country
for the next four years will be decided Tuesday night. Do Davidson students care?

Random Union survey results: “[Politics] isn’t worth my time at the moment ... I don’t know who to believe.” “I’m
not interested in being one who knows every nuance about politics.” Absentee ballots are hard to get, and time is
hard to find. Many feel that whoever the winner is, things won’t change. Very few signs cover campus, and those
that do look like flyers for just another weekly event. Cynicism sets in deeply during the college years. This attitude,
though, is not unique to Davidson. The entire country has election-horserace disappointment, as Clinton continues to strongly dominate the polls.
Dole’s camp continues to rally, and Dole himself has proclaimed that he will not give up. Even if Dole does
lose, though, many important races around the country are close. It is possible that the Democrats will retake Congress. This
could determine policy trends for the next two to four years as much as the Presidential election could.

Senate race coverage is not readily available and seems far away. However, some believe that Davidson isn’t completely filled with
apathy. According to Kelly Cunningham, President of the College Democrats, about “one-third of campus cares about politics, one-third cares a
little, and one-third doesn’t care at all.” Cunningham has spent time this semester registering students to vote inNorth Carolina. By
temporarily changing residency, many people in the Davidson community are voting locally. She says that 158 students are registered to
vote in the 12th district. She believes that “a certain amount of disillusionment exists, but the idea that all students
are apathetic is a fallacy. Some faculty think that, but it’s not true.” Evidence of this exists: Politics in America
Editor Phil Duncan of Congressional Quarterly, a Davidson alum, spoke in the 900 room to a full crowd last Tuesday.
Students asked his predictions about a variety of Congressional races, and he spoke to the media’s role in the current
presidential race. When the debates were shown in the same room weeks before, the room was full of people and
posters. Even the library broadcasted the debates. Some formerly apathetic students find that as they grow older politics become more
relevant. “Sometimes [politics are] interesting,” responded one. “[It’s becoming more applicable what the government will do to my life.”

“Into the Streets” storms campus
By ALLISON DOLPH
Staff Writer

This year, the two-week long community service drive “Into the Streets” will focus on three main issues: hunger, housing, and
the environment. The program kicked off Tuesday with environmental letter-writing. Students signed petitions to cut back on logging of national
forests, stop or recycle junk mail at the post office, and curb the use of styrofoam and paper products in
the Commons. The following day, the environmental theme continued with a nature walk led by Dr. David Grant. About 20
participants began the nature walk at the creek near the Senior Apartments, where they discussed water pollution by the College
Laundry and sewage overflow.

See Streets on page 5

President search narrows
Dagenhart confirms that not all are Presbyterian
By Kirsten RECKNAGEL
News Editor

The Presidential Search Committee, chaired by Trustee Larry Dagenhart, is now interviewing prospective presidential candidates for Davidson College. Dagenhart confirms
that “The committee is not restricting itself to looking at just Presbyterians.” When the Board of Trustees met at Davidson
last February, trustees stated that the president of Davidson College must have a strong affiliation with the Presbyterian Church, U.S.A.
However, says Dagenhart, “you look at only those who are currently affiliated with the Presbyterian Church.” The specified affiliation may
be formed, he says, “as a condition of their becoming president.” In a statement released last Friday, the Search Committee
states, “We have conducted some preliminary interviews and members of the committee will continue meeting with several prospective candidates over
the next few weeks. Later on we anticipate bringing one or more candidates to campus.”

See Presidential on page 2

Making us jealous...
Davidson students studying in Wurzburg, Germany (not pictured, Lauren Clayton, Jason Pope), along with Professor Scott Denham and home stay
director Horst Schurmann pose with their favorite publication in front of the rococo palace of Hülffe in Westphalia. “We love
getting news from home,” writes Denham.

Four seniors find a place in cyberspace. Jim Smith and sheep dogs.
First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

CROSSWORD............... 6
EDITORIAL................. 7
OPINIONS................. 8
NEWS..................... 3
ARTS..................... 15

Where are they going? page 3
