MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1996

SPORTS

THE DAVIDSONIAN 18

Football booted in last seconds by Sewanee
Undefeated season dies on the foot of University of the South’s kicker

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

Sewanee, Tenn. - The Wildcats were looking to go 2-0 for the first time since 1979.

They were looking to start the season with two wins on the road for the first time since 1969, a
season in which Davidson won the Southern Conference championship and played in the Tangerine Bowl.

They were looking to win their fourth straight over a team from Tennessee.

They were looking to take an unblemished mark into Saturday’s Homecoming clash with Emory and Henry, nationally ranked in Division
III.

And they may have been looking past Sewanee on Saturday at McGee Field, as the Wildcats (1-1) fell to the
underdog Tigers, 17-16, on a 36-yard field goal by Ward Cole with nine seconds left in a game frighteningly reminiscent
of some of last year’s heart-wrenching, late-game collapses.

“We’ve got no reason to be overconfident,” said Davidson head coach Tim Landis after the game. “If they (the players)
were (overconfident), I wasn’t aware of it. I really hope that wasn’t the case. We’re a program on the rise
trying to get things done and we can’t afford to take anybody lightly. I give Sewanee a lot of credit.
They just moved the football. I think our defense is pretty good, and I’ve never seen anybody run on our
defense like that.”

Led by quarterback Louie Caputo (71 yards on just 8 rushes), the Tigers (2-0) picked up 207 yards on the
ground, much of it during their second-half comeback surge. Caputo also fired a 20-yard touchdown strike to wide receiver James
Spriggs early in the fourth quarter to cut Davidson’s lead to two.

But by that time, Sewanee should never have been in the position to even start thinking win.

As Landis said, “We didn’t have to make it that exciting.”

Davidson dominated the Tigers for much of the game, outgaining them, 332-298, collecting nine more first downs (23 to 14),
and holding the ball for 38:07 of the 60 minutes.

The Wildcats also converted nine of 12 third downs, while Sewanee managed just four of 11.

But as senior co-captain lineman said, “Football’s a strange game. We had our opportunities to score.”

On its second offensive possession, Davidson drove 72 yards on 14 plays, as quarterback Tommy Dugan connected on three straight
first down passes in third-and-long situations.

But it all went for naught, as backup tailback Nate Hagerman coughed up the football at the Sewanee 21.

Two series later, the Tigers capitalized on favorable field position, taking ten plays to drive 31 yards to score.

Backup quarterback John Stroup plunged in from the 1-yard line, giving Sewanee a 7-0 advantage with 13:40 left in the
first half.

After recovering a fumble on the Sewanee 17-yard line, Davidson had to settle for a 27-yard Dunn Mileham field goal.

After the Wildcat defense forced a Tiger three-and-out, the offense crafted a 64-yard touchdown march. Dugan found Ben Brown in
the corner of the endzone for a nine-yard scoring toss with 1:00 left in the half, but Mileham’s extra point
floated wide, as Davidson settled for just a 9-7 lead at the break.

The second half started auspiciously for the Wildcats. Jay Ariail recovered a fumble at the Sewanee 39-yard line and Davidson
capitalized, as fullback Eric Ferguson powered it in from three yards out minutes later, notching his first collegiate touchdown and
giving Davidson a seemingly commanding lead with 9:58 left in the third quarter.

But it could have and should have been more, as the Wildcats threatened to score more but always sputtered deep
in Tiger territory.

“The second half, in the third quarter, those drives where we drove the length of the field and bogged down,”
said Landis. “Those were the key to the game.”

“They made the big plays when they had and we didn’t,” added Cowan. “That’s really what it came down to.”

HOMECO

Don't worry, if you don’t have a Homecoming date there's still time. Go out and grab yourself a Wildcat before
the big showdown with Emory and Henry this weekend. Who knows, maybe you'll even get to walk down the runway.

ubiquitous photo editor Rob Kosicki
