RTS & LIVING

MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 1996

Self-Exploration,
Self-Segregation,
Self-Degradation...
Self-Selection!

One Hall’s Odyssey

By Saab Gul

Guest Writer

Like that magic moment before your first kiss, your first experiment with a razor, your initial reaction to a returned
review, Self-Selection night ranks right up there as a rite of passage. Like countless men before them, and doubtless many
to follow, the men of Second West Belk — a.k.a “Club West” — underwent the baptism of fire with a
little wariness and much anticipation.

For the Residence Life staff, too, it would not be a night to be forgotten. “I really don’t remember last
night,” groaned a visiting Matt “Mean Dean” Pearson, Hall Counselor to the freshmen of Second Little. Clyde Jason Wright, whose
flock is Second West, remarked, “The guys really impressed me.”

See Odyssey on page 11

A veteran reminisces

By Mary Care Jalonick

Guest Writer

As a two-year veteran of Self-Selection night, I finally got it right. When the screaming began and everyone began to
cock their champagne bottles towards the door, three friends and I ran down to the basement.

Some might say that I missed out on the fun, but it sure was nice to be dry. That way
I didn’t have to run up the hill soaking, sticky, absolutely unbearably freezing, take a shower and change.

I sometimes try to explain the Self-Selection phenomenon to friends from home, and they usually look at me with disbelief.
“Yeah,” I say, “we all spray each other with champagne and chug the rest, all the while running from one
end of the

See Reminisces on page 12

Movie Review

Heat registers lukewarm

By Ep Acle
Movie Critic

Two of my favorite film actors working today are Al Pacino and Robert De Niro. They both broke into the
film scene at virtually the same time — the early 1970s. The film that really catapulted the two into early
stardom was the second installment of The Godfather trilogy.

After considering these facts (as well as their penchant for taking on similar roles), one would have expected them to
have acted together in quite a few films. This is not the case. Heat, a 1995 release directed by Michael
Mann, provides De Niro and Pacino with their first opportunity to act opposite one another. Ultimately, this opportunity is what
makes Heat worth seeing.

Michael Mann directed this film, as becomes clear from the very beginning. Mann is a stylistic virtuoso known for his
work on the early years of Miami Vice as well as the underrated Manhunter. One of the themes of Mann’s
work has always been the identification the police detective is forced to make with the criminal.

Only by thinking like the bad guy, and at extreme moments even adapting his methods, can the detective ever hope
to bring the wrong-doer to justice.

This theme is once more at work in Heat. It’s a basic plot: Pacino the cop has to catch De
Niro the crook. The men are similar in some ways — they both have trouble connecting with love, they’re both
loyal friends to their respective teams of criminals and detectives, they both are fueled by inner fire to be the
best that they can in their chosen professions. In one of the two scenes where they meet, in a coffee
shop, this becomes quite apparent.

When watching these two actors talk to each other one becomes aware that the audience is basically looking at two
sides of the same coin — as they say in so many words. As they act, De Niro and Pacino
almost seem to be aware of the audience looking at them, almost seem to be saying, “You wanted it, you
got it. The two of us are finally in a scene together, and we’re just as similar as everyone always
thought we were.” It’s powerful. The rest of the film isn’t quite so good. Mann is a stylistic director, but
his vision does not seem anywhere near as fresh as it did 10 years ago. The film abounds in unnecessary
sub-plots which drag it down. These other sub-plots leave the film just a few minutes shy of three hours, an
almost disastrous length for a film that relies on quick pacing.

At the heart of the film, however, remain the two old pros. Pacino and De Niro rip into their roles,
each determined to not let the other walk away with the film. It is a conflict even more interesting than
the story on screen, and ultimately it’s what carries Heat. (Rating: B)
