Che Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1996 VOLUME 88, NUMBER 11

Wildcats score big in soccer, football
Women's soccer three-peats in conference tourney
Football whips Centre

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

The football team doubled up Centre, 42-21, in a Senior Day rout at Richardson Field on Saturday in the Wildcats’ strongest all-around performance in years. The win was Davidson’s first over the Colonels since 1940. With a victory this Saturday at Bridgewater, the Wildcats would post their first winning record since 1993 (6-4).

Quarterback Tommy Dugan continued his torrid play of late, completing 9-of-18 passes for 209 yards and picking up a career-high 100 yards rushing. The junior signal-caller ran for a touchdown and threw for another, as the 42 points marked the most scored by the Wildcats in three years.

“All week we’ve been looking to the seniors and telling them we’re going to do it for them,” said freshman safety Chad Wright, who ran back an interception for a go-ahead touchdown at the end of the second quarter. “They’ve been through it all. So we want to give them a 6-4 season again, and we’re on our way.”

The offense racked up a season-high 461 yards, including 252 on the ground, and the defense held the Centre offense to a season-low 205.

“We've always kind of relied on defense here, and that’s by design,” said coach Tim Landis. “We emphasize that. But our offense has really matured.”

After Centre quarterback

See Pigskin on page 13

By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

Starting this season, the women’s soccer team had questions about the sweeper position. This weekend, Katherine Cornelius provided the answers. Anchoring a defense which recorded two straight shut-outs, Cornelius was named the tourney’s Most Outstanding Player after Sunday’s 1-0 victory over Georgia Southern. The win gave Davidson its third consecutive Southern Conference championship.

“Every year it feels like we have to go prove it,” goalkeeper Allie Noznesky said. “Yes, I would have liked to put more goals in the net, but it’s nice. And the best part is we have 21 of our 24 players returning to do it again next year.”

With just over six minutes remaining in the first half, reserve

See Champs on page 13

SALUTING THE FLAG

Students of all ages, genders, and sexualities gathered in Chambers Gallery Saturday to celebrate Friends of Lesbians and Gays for their third annual fashion show. Here, Mike Scarbo, Zac Lacy, and Bo Craig dance the night away. Full of chains, leather, skimpy under baggy, tuxedoed twins and cross-dressing males, the show featured

Campus braces for Goodall

By JEFFREY COKER

Davidson student band. Will Nolen inughe, “People teen

SGA works toward off-campus rides

By IAN HUMMEL
Staff Writer

Davidson students without cars have long been under a sort of house arrest. In the past, the school has tried to alleviate the problem through a program that offers rides to the airport for students during certain holiday periods. This year, however, the school aims to alleviate the transportation problem through an expansion of this program which will include transit to Cornelius or Charlotte for a variety of student needs.

To address this issue, the SGA formed an ad hoc committee earlier this year for the purpose of researching and proposing methods to meet the transportation needs of Davidsonstudents. In addition, a Transportation Task Force comprised of faculty and students was formed by Dean Shandley in early October. The Task Force also seeks to provide opportunities for transportation for health reasons, like doctor appointments, and for rides for job, internship, and class obligations that draw students off campus. According to junior Patricia Evans, Chair of the Rides Committee, the program is yet in a formative stage, with possibilities and obstacles still being discussed. Student head of the Task Force and SGA President Warren Buford says that a survey will be out in the coming weeks to assess what the students feel are the specific transportation needs. At the same time, research will be conducted to analyze the rides programs at other schools. Buford says that there are a few barriers that remain to be overcome before the program can get completely underway. Liability and insurance issues that are ever-present when dealing with cars, and the need for a program that is financially viable will have to be managed in the coming weeks. Despite these obstacles, Buford is hopeful that a pilot program will commence in the Spring semester. This program, he says, will not be a “taxi service,” but by starting “small and realistically.”

NEWS BRIEFS

Spiders get washed out

ELSEWHERE...

CROSSWORD

EDITORIAL

OPINION

Touch my monkey, page 3

SPORTS

ARTS & LIVING

Science Staff Writer

According to Dr. Vivian Dietz, Chair of the Public Lectures Committee, the Jane Goodall lecture on November 19 in Love Auditorium is causing a stir. Tickets for Goodall’s lecture on November 19 are going fast among Davidson students and faculty. Well over 300 tickets were allocated in the first 5 days, beginning last Monday. “I’ve been receiving up to ten calls a day since the late summer,” Dietz says. “Everyone wants tickets... classes at Furman, a chiropractor from Boone, a teacher from Tennessee, prenatal chimpanzee workers at the Asheboro Zoo, you name it.” The ticket office phones are ringing off the hook. After the phone rang for the third time in five minutes, Union desk worker ticket office begging me to send them tickets, saying ‘I’ve been studying her all my life’.”

Goodall, who lives in England, is internationally known for her 36 years of chimpanzee research at the Gombe Research Center in Tanzania. Her discoveries and methodology revolutionized the field of primatology. She also gave human names to her subjects to distinguish their individual personalities. After watching chimp mother “Flo” spend almost all her time rearing baby “Fifi,” Goodall was convinced that human mothers should do the same for the first two years of a child’s life. When Goodall began her study in 1960, she had had no formal training. She now holds a PhD in ethology from Cambridge. She is the author of six books, including her best seller In the Shadow of Man. In 1977, she established The Jane Goodall Institute for Wildlife Research, Education, and Conservation. Goodall last spoke in the Charlotte area in 1990, when she lectured at Winthrop. Davidson is one of the seven stops on her 1996 tour. She will also speak to Dr. Verna Case’s Animal Behavior classes in a closed session before the lecture.