THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & Ri (cme 1996

CD Review

Watch out: Tori’s got a gun

Boys for Pele proves to be both powerful and

By JOHN COPENHAVER
Arts and Living Editor

Before I purchased Tori Amos’s new CD, Boys for Pele, I had a chance to listen to the first release, “Caught A Lite Sneeze.” During this song she sings, “caught a lite sneeze/ dreamed a little dream/ made my own pretty hate machine.” After hearing these lyrics, and reading about Tori’s breakup with her boyfriend, Eric Rosse, co-producer of her last two albums, I had an idea what to expect from the new album: Trent Reznor’s Pretty Hate Machine served up Tori-style. And I was right — at least to a certain extent.

Leaning back in a rocking chair, legs splattered with mud, hunting rifle in hand, Tori stares, glassy-eyed and angry, out from her CD cover. The first impression that flew through my head was: Oh no! Watch out! Tori’s mad — and she’s got a gun. After listening to the album, the most pervasive mood was not anger, but sadness — and finally resolution.

Throughout her previous albums, Little Earthquakes, 1991 and Under the Pink, 1994, Tori structured many of her songs so that they start with a piano, layer on different instruments, and culminate in powerful vocals. She arranges her songs to grow gradually and climax in epiphany-like moments, bringing the listener in and demanding his or her full attention until the end.

Eighteen songs long, Boys for Pele contains some of Tori’s best work. The range and variety of songs demonstrate significant growth and successful experimentation, which speaks highly for her ability and maturity as an artist.

Tori Amos’ new album unique

In four songs, “Blood Roses,” “Professional Widow,” “Caught a Lite Sneeze,” and “Talula,” she blends the baroque, aristocratic sound of a harpsichord, the metallic beat of a drum machine, and her smooth, whispering voice into a highly unlikely, but successful combination. She also uses horns, strings, and guitars — among other unusual instruments — to give each song a distinct and memorable sound. “Putting the Damage On” combines brass and piano to produce a brilliant and moving piece of music. Other songs such as “Little Amsterdam” and “In the Springtime of his Voodoo” have a jazzy, upbeat feel that contrasts well with her slower, more moody songs.

The problem with this album is that it came out too early. Many of her songs could have been worked over, allowing the mixing of instruments and vocals to be more precise. Her voice, at times, loses itself in the instruments, fading into the background when it should be full and in the foreground. My only other complaint is that she still keeps her lyrics incredibly cryptic. If she decoded her lyrics for her audience, she would open up a new world for her listeners, and, I believe, drive home her points more successfully.

Without a doubt, Boys for Pele is a must for Amos fans, but it is also proof that Tori took advantage of experimentation and explored her musicalmedium in an untraditional manner. She has created and produced an album that is as unique as it is accomplished and powerful. It can be honestly said that no musician out there is quite like her.

ON THE SCENE

January Chill Chasers chase your Monday chills away from 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. in designated areas. Robert Taub, pianist, hits the ebony and ivory in Hodson Hall 8 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Love Poetry Reading—waxing and waning or gushing and mushing, you're invited to the Jumpin’ Java Cafe 8 p.m. - 10 p.m.

Tuesday Coffeehouse brews up some early morning fun 8 a.m. - 11 a.m. Free Play Basketball reconvenes in Johnston Gym 3:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. Robert Taub, piano wonder, performs and lectures in Hodson Hall 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m.

Wednesday Yearbook Picture Retakes: smile, (again) in Chambers Gallery 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. The Last Seduction plays in the 900 Room 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Friendship in the Age of AIDS, a fun, required assembly for all Patterson Court members to bond in Love Auditorium 7 p.m. - 9 p.m.

Thursday Free Play Basketball plays hard in Johnston Gym 3:30 p.m. - 5 p.m. Wilson Cherry, writer/poet, gives us a sample of his work in the Morrison Room of the Union 8 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.

Friday Midwinters weekend begins with a bang. Women's Film Fest begins with The Incredibly True Adventures of... and Eat Drink Man Woman in the 900 Room 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.

Saturday Midwinters spices up campus festivities 8 a.m. - 11 a.m. African American Art Exhibit appears in the Union Gallery.

Sunday Therese shows in the 900 Room 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Mi Vida Loca finishes up a crazy week in the 900 Room 9:30 p.m. - 11:30 p.m.

Chill from page 10

From the stage, as cooks plugged their personal creations and tasters wandered through the room sampling and socializing. Among the assortment of chilis were all vegetable dishes, a “white chili” with chicken, and of course the meat and beans standby. However, contestants did manage to add a few unexpected ingredients. The reactions? Well, let’s just put it this way: there were plenty of “oohs” and “aahs,” a few red faces, and an occasional mad dash to the water pitcher. One crowd favorite was “sexual chocolate” from the kitchen of Casey Hawthorn and Kevin Gaunt. The team later received an honorable mention. The vegetarian favorite was Miles’ chili,” said a table of nameless and impartial guests. However, whether they came for the social aspect, to support an amigo, or just to have a big bowl of good chili, everyone agreed that the cook-off was the perfect escape for a wintry night, and a great time was had by all.

Need a dress for Midwinters? Zormal Open Mon-Sat, 10-6 Layaway Available 106 South Main Street 896-8860

We Could All Use a Little More SAVVY!

Why drive to Charlotte when Lake Norman has All the SAVVY You Need!
* Ultimate Hair Services
* Complete Nail Services
* Assorted Retail Products

20430-2 Norman Crossing Shopping Center I-77 Exit 28, behind Wendy's 895-0404