THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1996

Basketball schedule conflicts with Davidson policy
Players will miss too many classes for Southern Conference

By STEPHEN CEFALU
Staff Writer

In an Educational Policy Meeting on October 16, committee members were officially informed that the Davidson basketball team’s Southern Conference schedule may require team members to miss more classes than current policy permits.

According to Vice President of Academic Affairs, Dean Robert Williams, an athletic team’s competition schedule may not require team members to miss more than three Monday-Wednesday-Friday classes, or two Tuesday-Thursday classes per semester. Along with Athletic Director Jim Murphy, Williams is currently evaluating different means by which to effectively resolve the scheduling dilemma so as to ensure proper compliance with academic regulations.

Williams says the scheduling conflict was originally brought to his attention by head men’s basketball coach, Bob McKillop. According to McKillop, the basketball program has little control over the conference schedule game dates dictated by the Southern Conference athletic commission. McKillop says, however, “It is of paramount concern to our program that the class time missed by our players due to schedule constraints is kept to an absolute minimum.”

Williams says that one means of accommodation may be to make slight modifications to the team’s traveling schedule. McKillop says his chief con-

Four seniors chosen to interview for Watson

By ALEX OBREGON
Staff Writer

Four Davidson seniors, Randy Hartwell, Patrick Montoya, Sallie Permar, and Nathan Summerlin, have been chosen by a selection committee of various Davidson faculty members to be nominated for a Thomas J. Watson Fellowship. Every year, the Thomas J. Watson Foundation gives 60 grants to students from 50 eligible institutions to go abroad for one year and study in the field of their choice.

The four students nominated were selected from a pool of 32 applicants. To be considered for a Watson Fellowship, a senior must submit a proposal in which he or she describes a specific area of study and places around the world where he or she would go to pursue those studies. In addition to their proposals, the applicants must also submit a personal statement explaining why they should be chosen for a Watson Fellowship, and what significance it would have in their studies. Of the 32 seniors that submitted proposals, 15 were chosen to be interviewed by the selection committee, and from those 15, the four nominees were chosen.

Patrick Montoya
A political science major with a concentration in international studies, Patrick Montoya hopes to study the use of dance as a tool to study culture. He would focus on the flamenco and its different forms, the tango in Argentina, the Samba in Brazil, and how each of these dances is a form of expression and a social tool.

Randy Hartwell
Randy Hartwell, a French major with an International Studies concentration, proposes, “Fusion or Confusion?”, which would deal with a current trend in American cooking. “Fusion cooking” brings cultures together in the same dish or meal (Thai pizza is an example), but does not necessarily respect the place those dishes or food have in their specific culture. He proposes to go to Mexico, Thailand, Vietnam, and India, and study the ties between cooking and culture.

Sallie Permar
Sallie Permar, a biology major, is interested in AIDS research. Her proposal outlines her interest in AIDS education in African countries. Having spent 5 weeks working in Zambia this summer, Sallie encountered the devastation of the disease.and the lack of awareness. With a Watson Fellowship, she would return to Africa to study the approach to AIDS education more in depth.

Nathan Summerlin

Nathan Summerlin, a major in the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies, proposes to continue a project he began last year—a documentary about women as prostitutes and exotic dancers. He plans to go to Amsterdam and Sweden and interview various women in these fields.

The four nominees will be interviewed by a representative from the Watson Foundation early next year. Watson Fellows will be selected and notified in early March.

Attention! Please do not use the Habitat for Humanity house on the Union patio as your own personal kiosk, canvas, or bulletin board.

cern is keeping faculty members informed of his team’s travel commitments. By doing so, he anticipates that any scheduling conflicts which may exist will be made of small consequence. McKillop says, “Professors here are highly accessible outside of the classroom and really willing to extend themselves to help accommodate student-athletes, which makes the whole problem much less of a burden.”

Athletic director Jim Murphy notes that the team members’ class schedules must be analyzed on an individual basis to determine how much of an actual conflict the conference schedule poses. During former Davidson athletic director Terry Holland’s tenure, conference games were scheduled back-to-back on Saturdays and Sundays with the purpose of eliminating any weekday conflicts. But McKillop says of the former schedule arrangement: “It was an intrusive situation. It took the players’ weekends away and left them extremely fatigued.”

For now, McKillop intends to monitor the number of classes team members are forced to miss and consult with Williams in regard to the tally.

POLITICS AND RELIGION

Rob Boston, Paul Stam, Rev. Mark Barwick, Nasif Majeed, and President John Kuykendall speak at the Politics and Religion forum October 22. Bill Giduz

Graduation location depends on funding

By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
News Editor

Construction of Davidson’s Baker-Watt Life Science complex is not expected to interfere with the traditional graduation location at this spring’s ceremony, unless Davidson can raise the remaining three million dollars needed to fund the project. According to trustee policy, says Kevin McCarthy, Director of Development, “All money must be raised before you can start construction and half must be cash received.”

The construction of the Watson Life Science Building, and its attachment to Dana Science Building to form the new Life Science Complex, is a 12 million dollar project. Of that money, “we have nine million dollars raised in cash or pledges,” says McCarthy. Drs. Frances and Lenox Baker Jr.’s $2.5 million donation, announced over fall break in mid-October, was a major boost to the college’s fundraising efforts.

The school hopes to break ground as early as possible, and McCarthy says administrators expect it to take “anywhere from 15 to 18 months to build the building.” However, “if all the funds are not raised,” he says, “that slows the project down in terms of groundbreaking.”

The location of this spring’s graduation ceremony depends first on how quickly the school can raise the remaining three million dollars in funding and then on the subsequent scheduling decisions of Davidson’s President and Vice Presidents. As of now, graduation location is “still kind of up in the air,” says McCarthy.

The Educational Policy Committee invites upperclassmen to submit their thoughts on the goals of Davidson’s academic policy for the next five years. Contact Chris Martin -6236 if you are interested in submitting a proposal.