6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ELSEWHERE

Week in Washington

Dole fends off primary challengers

By David Santschi
Washington Week Correspondent

Following a disappointing performance in the Super Tuesday primaries across the South, Steve Forbes announced Friday that he is dropping
out of the Republican presidential race. Except for Florida, where he placed second behind Dole, Forbes finished no higher than
third in seven primaries held Tuesday. Forbes won 71 Republican delegates, less than 10% of the number needed to clinch
the nomination. These delegates were also expensive: Forbes spent a record $25 to $30 million of his personal fortune on
the campaign.

Forbes was urged by several friends, including New Jersey Governor Christine Todd Whitman, to withdraw and unite the party behind
Senator Bob Dole (R-KS), the apparent Republican nominee. Despite his harsh television commercials that condemned Dole’s record, Forbes endorsed him
Friday. “Senator Dole has truly earned our support and help,” Forbes said.

Dole, having amassed 709 of the 996 delegates needed to win the nomination, was relieved that another challenger had withdrawn.
“No doubt about it, it helps,” Dole said.

Forbes’ bid showed the presence of a large supply-side wing in the Republican party that is uncomfortable with the Republican
fixation on budget cutting. Forbes railed against “root canal” Republicanism with his upbeat message that promised renewed growth and opportunity
through a revamped tax code and a less conservative social policy. While no longer in the race, Forbes said, “I
will work with others to promote those pro-opportunity, pro-growth, pro-American ideals.”

In a campaign stop in Battle Creek, Michigan, Dole urged Republicans to “focus our attention on what we believe we
should do in November, and that is to beat Bill Clinton.” While portraying himself as “the undisputed opponent of Bill
Clinton,” Dole also hinted at the themes he will use in the next few months.

First, Dole intends to make character a major issue. Appearing at the site of an army hospital where he recovered
between 1945 and 1948 from a World War II injury, Dole obviously wanted to distinguish his service with Clinton’s protest
against the Vietnam War. “It is about character. It is about growing up in America. About having made a little
sacrifice for America,” Dole said.

Second, Dole will try to convince blue-collar Reagan Democrats that Republican proposals are better equipped to ease economic and job-related
uncertainty. Third, he will paint Clinton as an obstructionist to Republican efforts on welfare reform and a balanced budget.

Meanwhile, Pat Buchanan refuses to pull out of the race. Buchanan is comfortable with his self-proclaimed role as a “countercultural
icon” and wants to influence the policies and tone of the Republican convention in San Diego. He has spoken recently
about running again in the year 2000 and drew parallels between himself and Ronald Reagan, claiming that “what 1976 was
for Ronald Reagan, 1996 can be and is to Pat Buchanan.”

In Washington, congressional Republicans agreed to include a version of the line-item veto in a bill that would extend the
debt ceiling. This action came largely through the efforts of Dole, who prodded House and Senate Republicans to compromise. The
issue stalled because Republicans, the majority party in Congress, were reluctant to grant such authority to a Democratic president.

The bill would allow the president to reduce or remove any figures in a spending bill. A two-thirds vote by
both houses of Congress would be required to override a presidential decision. Therefore, each spending bill would be broken up
into hundreds of small bills which the president would consider individually.

Although 43 of 50 state governors have a line-item veto, there are concerns that it would complicate the legislative process
and shift a great deal of constitutional power from Congress to the president.

Sources include: March 14 and 15 of The New York Times and March 14 of The Wall Street Journal.

Global Perspective

Suicide bombings bring peace efforts to front doors

By Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

The most intimidating enemy is the one that you cannot see. There is an awful fear in the knowledge that
anywhere you go and at any time of the day, a bomb could kill you or your loved ones. While
Davidson students were on Spring Break, four suicide bombings made that fear a reality for the people of Israel.

HAMAS, the extreme Islamic terrorist group, claimed responsibility for the four suicide bombings which killed more than 60 people. HAMAS
is the Arabic acronym for “Harakat Al-Muquawama Al-Islamia,” which means the Brave Islamic Resistance Movement. The goal of HAMAS is
“Jihad” (holy war). Unlike many of the pro-Palestinian groups (like the PLO) who simply want an independent Palestinian state and
are willing to make concessions to get it, HAMAS has stated that it will not stop fighting until all land
has been returned to the Palestinians. Israel, of course, is not willing to do this, and so HAMAS has attempted
to do everything in its power to stop the peace process and defeat Israel and Arafat. HAMAS believes that if
an independent Palestinian state is created, Palestinians will lose their will to fight and that HAMAS’s dream will not be
realized.HAMAS has focused on a very effective way of getting what they want: suicide bombings of civilian targets. These attacks
strike at the heart of Israelis and have had a major impact on the popularity of Prime Minister Shimon Peres.
Before the recent wave of suicide attacks which took place a week ago, Peres had a very comfortable lead over
his Likud opposition. By the end of the week, his lead had disappeared. Peres was forced to respond quickly or
lose any chance for re-election. His response was to threaten re-occupation of land that had been turned over to Arafat
if Arafat did not immediately show that he was willing and able to stop terrorism. The result was an incredible
crackdown on militants and the Palestinian people as a whole. Movement among Palestinian towns was denied, and Palestinian and Israeli
police conducted door-to-door searches looking for terrorists. The result was that 350 Palestinian suspects were arrested. Among those arrested were
4 of the 13 men on Israel’s “most wanted” list. This success was desperately needed by both Peres and Arafat,
but it in no way ensures Peres’ victory in the upcoming elections. Some analysts contend that Peres has no chance
for re-election and that the peace process which has come so far over the past few years is on the
verge of being destroyed. But one must keep in mind that Rabin’s assassination and the sacrifice he made for peace
are still fresh in people’s minds. Furthermore, as is being seen in Northern Ireland, once people get a taste of
peace after being at war their entire lives, it is hard for them to forget how much better that life
is. When one adds this to the fact that the peace process has come so far and has such international
backing, it appears that the dove of peace has been bloodied, but not killed.

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1996

HAMAS attacks Israel
A string of suicide attacks by HAMAS against Israel has thrown the peace process in the Middle East into disarray.
There was a very strong military and police response by Israel and Arafat’s security forces in a mass roundup of
Islamic militants. Family members of those involved in the bombings were also arrested and their houses were destroyed.

US warns China
The United States issued a strong warning to China about missile tests off the coast of Taiwan and sent a
fleet to patrol those waters. China has been threatening Taiwan in an attempt to alter the outcome of its upcoming
Presidential elections.

Coalition government formed in Turkey
Turkey’s two main centrist parties finally formed a coalition government. This government excluded the Islamic Welfare party which had won
the most seats in December’s election.

Australian elections held
Australia’s Liberal-National Coalition won Australia’s recent elections, giving Australia its first conservative government in 13 years.

—Economist March 15, Observer March 12-15

Spring Moisturizing Treatments with Eggs
Your hair, skin, and nails have been under attack. The dry heat in your dorms, classrooms combined with the winter’s
chilling weather has caused your skin to become dry, itchy, and flaky. It’s maddening to buy a product you think
will be great and then find out it doesn’t work at all. Rather than go through all that hassle, why
not make your own? Putting together a homemade treatment is easy to do. All of the ingredients are found at
the grocery store. The advantages to making your own treatments are that you and your friends can share the cost
(and fun!), and you make only the amount you need. Also, the products are natural and won’t irritate your skin.

Smoothing Foot Mask:
This treatment softens rough calluses and makes feet feel wonderfully pampered.
1/3 cup olive oil
2 tbsp mayonnaise
1/2 cup heavy cream
1 egg yolk
Thoroughly blend all ingredients and spread mixture on feet. Wrap feet in cellophane and cover with an old pair of
cotton socks. Leave on for 30 minutes; rinse. Finish with a pedicure. Paint your toenails a bright color.

—NC Egg Association

Watson from page 1
She is interested in “the role that women play by means of the printed word in all sorts of publications
and how it affects social, economic, and religious change.” Although she will focus on women in the underground press, in
Nicaragua she hopes to study “the role of women in the official press.” She will study political leader and journalist
Violetta Chamorro. She believes that it is important to study “the mainstream press in order to understand what the alternative
publications are reacting to.” She also plans to study fashion and beauty magazines and how they contrast with the goals
of the women who create feminist publications. “I am basically interested in women’s rights and how these countries address them.
Many of these issues, such as divorce, abortion, and sexual harassment, are issues that are never discussed in these cultures.”
Both will begin their studies mid-summer.

Correction:
In the February 26 issue of The Davidsonian as well as in previous issues, Dr. Nancy Fairley, Associate Professor of
Anthropology and Sociology, has been referred to as the only tenured African-American professor at Davidson. African-American Professor Dr. Charles Dockery,
Professor of French and Chair of the French department, received tenure in 1977.
