THE DAVIDSONIAN _OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1996

Greg Garisson

Antidisestablishmentarianism

You know, there are plenty of brilliant people around here, and if you’re not one of them, that’s okay. I realize that you might feel like a clod for being so thoroughly overshadowed by other people’s academic records, but as someone who is in the same position, let me offer you a few ways to make yourself feel better about it or make other people think that your grades are an anomaly in the life of a soon-to-be-recognized-as-brilliant human being.

One way is to adopt a lifestyle that’s appropriate to your lousy performance in class. Here are some examples of decisions you’ll need to make to fulfill this image:

Monday’s the first day of the week, so get sauced to loosen up your brain and make homework go more smoothly later on. Tuesday’s twenty-one-year-old night, and I don’t need to tell you what that means. Wednesday’s the mid-week slump, so a little party-pick-me-up will make things more interesting. Thursday’s almost the weekend, so take full advantage of this and go boozing. Friday and Saturday are, of course, the weekend, which means the Court is open. Sunday’s a day of rest and therefore a good day to study. You’ll feel okay.

Now, you may be more concerned with people’s image of you than with your inner struggle over why you always get Cs. If this is the case, and people think you’re an effing moron, this can easily be overcome. Everyone here uses words that are frighteningly large, and in everyday conversation at that. Two or three or even more can play at the game of using big words, though, and you can become a brilliant wo/man in the eyes of all if you’ll only do the same.

Since you probably don’t have the best memory from books, studying all of the six-syllable words in the dictionary and then forgetting them will not be the best way to sound smart. Instead, make up your own big words. It’s a beautifully simple concept, and when the brainiac that sits in the carrel next to yours hears you saying things like, “In my opinion, the claritudination of the indigenous peoples of outer Mongolia is clearly an example of how the multifactidacity of the corporate mindset can lead to a bifurcation of the soul, the ka as it were, of the omnisalifilocious tribes worldwide,” s/he will think, “Wow, what a genius,” and s/he may furthermore come over to your carrel and say something along the lines of, “That reminds me of an article I read in last month’s Journal of the Evils of Western Culture.”

You may then enter into a conversation about whatever s/he thinks you were talking about. Talk as little as possible and nod regularly, inserting comments like, “Yeah,” “Absolutely,” and, “You mean someone else feels the same way I do?” Now s/he might be a big faker like you, and if you get the feeling that this is the case, ask them to explain what s/he meant by that last comment. This may shatter his/her image of you as a genius, but if s/he can’t tell you what s/he meant, you will have found a fellow member of the intellectual underclass and a true friend forever.

If you’d just as soon be known as someone who’s cool as hell but doesn’t get the best grades in the world, that’s okay. Just make sure you satisfy the first part of the description, which is something you really might not want.To bet money on. SIGNE PHILADELPHIA DAILY NEWS Philadelphia USA

‘S3DWUIS VIGNE BNNGNEL AG OIINGWISIO WEY, 4 7G HEAD, FOREIGN LANGUAGE

WKE DOESN'T START wy AGENCY

Voice respect, kindness, courtesy, manners, consideration, grace, HOUSNESS, arprinnike, eimiiad

© SISIUOOURD Caroline Kelly and Katherine Palmer

Too Much Sex

The following is an opinion on the issue of sex and society: society is saturated to an obnoxious degree with sex. Now wait a minute, you object. Sex is a natural part of human life. Surely there is nothing wrong with a frank acknowledgment of its rightful place in human affairs. We concur. Unfortunately, in our society, sex is referred to in connection with practically every aspect of life so that it is seen as the only thing that motivates or that is of any real significance. Frankly, this Freudian theme has become a bore. There are plenty of other natural, enjoyable aspects of life to champion.

We say, it’s time to crown a new monarch. One might argue that food, or the act of eating itself, is already well on its way to the throne. Very well! Let us complete the ceremony and contrive to exploit the role of eating to the utmost! Call in to your local radio stations and request “Cheeseburger in Paradise” and “Eat It” ad nauseam. Demand the inclusion of chefs and gastronomes in blockbuster movies. Bring to the attention of music television the deplorable lack of food in their videos. Boycott all merchandise whose advertisements do not mention food. Advise the producers of Friends that they will boost their ratings if only they will change their tack. For example, have them advertise as such: “Next time on Friends, will Rachel and Ross go out for pizza... Or stay in for a Full Course Meal?!”

Perhaps you might also suggest that instead of alluding slyly to old hat sex jokes, characters could coyly bring out a favorite fruit or veggie to tantalize the viewers. Cosmopolitan can run headlines like, “Killer Milk Shakes: Women Who Know Tell All.” Food ads should be filmed in black and white to add an air of mystique (As a kindness, inform Levi’s and Calvin Klein of this technique as well. They may also want to do something creative with silverware). You get the point.

Do We Care About Vets?

The proposal I made in SGA to give Veterans’ Day the same privileges as Martin Luther King Day has been tabled by the SGA to be considered at a later date. While there were questions raised about Veterans’ Day, specifically, it was said that my arguments were brought up at one of the eating houses and none of the ladies of that house could find any reason why Davidson students would have any interest in Veterans’ Day. They said that Veterans’ Day was not relevant to life at Davidson in the same way Martin Luther King Day was. While they did not see how any person could question the merits of discussing the problems of race relations, they felt that besides ROTC and myself, no students really cared about Veterans’ Day.

Their representative doubted whether there was any support for Veterans’ Day among the students. They said that Veterans’ Day was not relevant to life at Davidson in the same way Martin Luther King Day was. While they did not see how any person could question the merits of discussing the problems of race relations, they felt that besides ROTC and myself, no students really cared about Veterans’ Day. The main obstacle to equality between these two important holidays appears to be whether any students care about Veterans’ Day. So I am writing to ask you to make your opinions known to your SGA representatives. If there are people other than myself who feel Veterans’ Day is important, please say something. Your apathy is shameful. For redemption and exposure, call Kristen or Nina @2148.