THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS 15 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1996

Wildcats start season with win
By Carlo REYNOLDS
Staff Writer

Davidson Baseball opened the season this week at Wildcat Park with a 13-6 win against UNC-Asheville on Wednesday, and losses to Virginia Commonwealth on Friday (5-2) and Sunday (12-2).

“We make it a habit not to go into a game saying we’re going to win it or lose it,” said Head Coach Dick Cooke. “UNC-Asheville and VCU are both strong.” Cooke said he was not disappointed with his team’s early-season play.

Centerfielder Rhett Ingerick led Davidson in its victory over UNCA, producing a homerun, two RBIs, and three runs. Catcher Dominick Talvacchio scored twice and added two RBIs, and pitcher Chris Pollard earned his first win of the season.

Jonathan Coulombe pitched on Friday against VCU as temperatures dropped and snow fell. Jeff Andrews relieved him after seven innings. “I felt good for my first start, though I didn’t have as much control as I would like. I didn’t really have a problem with the snow,” Coulombe said.

Jeff Coker went 3-for-3 and scored a run for the Wildcats, but VCU’s defense, timely hitting, and speed overwhelmed Davidson by the end of the loss.

The weather for Sunday’s rematch was warmer, but the result was the same, as VCU topped Davidson for the second time in three days. Davidson got its two runs in the sixth on the strength of a Quattlebaum double. Mordecai Stolk, Brian Cole, Gus Quattlebaum, and Brandon Davis all saw stints on the mound. Brad Edwards provided defensive excitement, diving to stop a skipping grounder and tossing the ball to first for the third out of the eighth inning.

“Brad’s defensive play breeds confidence in the rest of the team,” said Cooke. “We are pretty strong, and we’re all a year older. We'll do well,” said Coulombe about the pitching staff. “Every team we play is a solid ballclub,” said Cooke.

Wrestlers beat by the Camels
By CLAYTON SCHLOSS
Staff Writer

The Davidson wrestling team suffered a tough loss on Saturday to the Campbell Camels, 28-13.

The Wildcats were scheduled to have a dual meet with Campbell and Longwood College, but Longwood’s team was unable to compete due to snow.

Despite the defeat, there were many bright spots for the Wildcats. Freshman Christian Baker won a major decision in the 134-pound weight class, and senior Jason Deaton (118) outlasted his opponent in an overtime victory. Sophomore Ben Wall (177) pinned his opponent and now leads the conference with eight pins.

“I was proud of our guys. They showed a lot of heart and stayed in the match against a strong and physical Campbell team,” said head coach Tom Oddo.

Although senior Sean Harvey returned after an injury, Davidson was forced to alter its lineup due to a season-ending shoulder injury to junior Tom Greene. Because of the switches, Davidson was outmanned in a couple weight classes, which made the ultimate difference.

The Wildcats have one more home match on Feb. 21 against App. St. before they travel to Greensboro for the Southern Conference Tournament on Mar. 2.

Attend Computer Center training workshops. This week's dates:
February 20, FileMaker Pro, 9-12, Preyer Training Room
February 20, PageMaker for the Mac, 3:30-5, Chambers 301
February 21, Netscape, 4-5, Chambers 301
February 22, Listservs, 4-5, Chambers 301
February 26, Excel for Mac, 3:30-5, Chambers 301

Southern from page 1
Hobgood) in her final swim. She also posted a personal best in the 100 backstroke on Friday. Other seniors performed well, too. Meg Bentley finished 5th in both one and three meter diving, Corey Bean broke a school record in the 200 butterfly, Mike Rogerson broke a seventeen-year-old record in the 50 freestyle, and had 3 per-Personal bests, John Rogers had best times in every event, including a 13th place finish in the 1650 freestyle, and Hooff captured the 1650 freestyle and 500 freestyle (setting a meet record), and was a very close second (.68 seconds) in the 200 freestyle. “It’s really too bad he (Hooff) didn’t win swimmer of the meet (which was awarded to Georgia Southern freshman Troy Wagoner who won three events in comparison to Hooff’s two). It’s awarded on points, but his performances were outstanding,” DeSelm said. Some of the younger swimmers are already focused on goals for next year. “When we saw the presentation of team awards we realized we wanted to be up there next year getting a trophy (which are awarded to the top three teams). That means everyone’s going to have to swim a little better next year and hopefully it will be a good recruiting class,” freshman Kathleen Paffenroth said. Bill King, coach at College of Charleston (2nd in women, and 5th in men) had many positive things to say about Davidson swimming. “They’ll improve. You’ve got Rich DeSelm, you’ve got Sam Jalet (the assistant coach). There is a genuine concern here for kids to do well in class and in the water. When I talk to kids that are also looking at Davidson, I tell them that they wouldn’t be making a mistake if they chose to come to Davidson. It’s a class organization,” he said. Larry Parrott ‘56, a retired pathologist from Camden, South Carolina and an ex-Davidson swimmer, made his annual trip for the championships. The trophies, which stay at Davidson, were donated by Parrott in memory of his son who died of leukemia in 1982. “Rich DeSelm deserves all the support he can get, and it will have to come from the alumni and the school. They need to let him have scholarship money to build the program,” he said. Next weekend, Allison Beebe, Welling, Hobgood, Lynsay Madley, Paffenroth, Rick Clarey, Hooff, Michael McCabe, Dave Maddux, Jason Prince, Jay Rosenquest, and Freddy Schnell will travel to Arkansas for the National Independent Championships.

Davidson falls to West Virginia in Doubles Classic
By Kirstyn Leuner
Staff Writer

The Wildcats hosted Georgetown, East Tenn. St., UNC-Charlotte, James Madison, Furman, West Virginia, and App. St. in the eighth annual Wildcat Doubles Classic in Knobloch Tennis Center February 10-11. The tournament offered ample doubles practice, as the teams prepare for dual matches, which start in late February.

Women’s Tennis

On Saturday, each team played three separate matches within their four-team division. On Sunday, the top team in one pool faced its counterpart from the other, and likewise with the second, third, and fourth place teams. The Wildcats dominated UNCC and Georgetown in their first two matches, taking both 4-0, then tied ETSU in the third, 2-2. Davidson’s #4 team of Creecy Chandler and Kirstyn Leuner posted one victory over the Bucs, while Dana Casner and Amber Bradford triumphed 8-6 against ETSU’s #1 team, which is nationally ranked. Davidson’s 10-2 overall match record boosted them into Sunday’s final with West Virginia. But the Mountaineers dominated the top three matches, as captains Jane Stubby and Ashley Maner fell at #3 doubles, 6-3, 6-4, and Claire Cheatwood and Clara Marks dropped #2 doubles, 6-0, 4-6, 6-2, despite an impressive second set surge. Chandler and Leuner prevented a West Virginian sweep with a 6-7 (4-7), 6-4, 7-6 (9-7) win. Davidson’s second place finish still represented its best performance in the tournament’s eight-year history.

SPRING BREAK! BAHAMAS CRUISE $279! 7 Days & 15 Meals! It's better in the Bahamas! CANCUN $429! 7 Nights! Air, Hotel, & Parties! JAMAICA $459! 7 Nights! Air, Hotel, & Parties! PANAMA CITY $119 7 Nights! Room with Kitchen Near the Bars! FLORIDA FROM $159! *Cocoa Beach *Key West *Daytona! 1-800-678-6386 http://www.springbreaktravel.com