6 : THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1996 ELSEWHERE Elections '96 Vote for Bob Dole By DARISSE BOWDEN Guest Writer

Before going to the Republican National Convention in San Diego, my interest in politics was minimal, although I knew the
basics of voter involvement in history. With 1200 young adults in the Young Voter and Page Programs, we took an
active role in the Convention and were able to discuss topics important to us with adults to take an active
part in the Republican National Convention.

Another misconception about Bob Dole is that his 15% tax cut will lower our chances of receiving student loans. On
the contrary, his balanced budget amendment (which Clinton vetoed) includes increasing federal aid to students by 50% over seven years.
Bob Dole’s program, which limits government involvement, will save $1.2 billion toward our national debt, lowering the interest rates we
will pay.

Bob Dole may be old enough to be our grandfather, but he cares about the youth of America. Dozens of
testimonies from both Republican and Democrat leaders have proved that he will do what he promises.

Bob Dole may be old enough to be our grandfather, but he cares about the youth of America. As a
page at the Convention, I learned that Bob Dole is honest, strong (both physically and mentally), and that he cares
about the youth of America. The 1996 convention included the largest young congressmen, senators, and other government officials. We also
led floor rallies during the convention to fire the delegates up for Dole/Kemp, and ran errands for government officials so
the Convention could run smoothly. Bob Dole proved to me that he cared about our generation by allowing young adults
to take an active part in the Republican National Convention.

Beyond Davidson International ... Iraq defies U.S. orders, U.S. threatens more strikes

The U.S. Pentagon threatened to implement new air strikes against Iraq last Wednesday, after accusing Iraq of repairing air defense
areas which were damaged by U.S. missile strikes against Iraq the previous week. The U.S. government had ordered Iraq’s president
Saddam Hussein not to rebuild or repair these air defense sites.

United Nations endorses Nuclear Test Ban Treaty

The voluntary ban on nuclear weapons testing may soon become internationally binding. Last Tuesday the United Nations General Assembly voted
158-3 to endorse such a treaty. The U.S., China, Russia, France, and Britain have all agreed to sign an internationally
binding agreement, but India said it will refuse to sign. To make the treaty national law, all 44 countries with
nuclear reactors must sign. India controls the foreign policies of Libya and Bhutan, the only other two dissenting votes.

Former East German Generals sentenced to prison

Six former high-ranking East German Generals, convicted of ordering the shootings of East German fugitives trying to escape across the
Berlin Wall, were given prison terms last week. Sentences ranged from just over three years to six and a half
years.

National ... Senate votes down homosexual rights bills

The U.S. Senate voted on several homosexual rights issues last week, denying Federal benefits to people in same-sex marriages and
permitting states to disregard homosexual marriages granted by another state. The Senate also rejected a bill to ban discrimination against
homosexuals in the workplace.

Rapper Tupac Shakur dies of gunshot woundsTupac Shakur, a successful rapper and actor, died in Las Vegas last Friday after
being shot in his car on the way to a nightclub after attending a Mike Tyson boxing match. Only 25
years old, Shakur was shot ten times throughout his life. He was also convicted in 1992 of sexually abusing a
fan. Local... North Carolinians guilty of illegal involvement in Clinton campaign Two U.S. Agriculture Department employees pled guilty last Friday
to conspiring to illegally raise funds for President Clinton’s 1992 election campaign. Each faces yearlong jail terms and $100,000 fines.
‘Come hear Arlene Render, who will become U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of Zambia later this month, speak on Thursday,
Sept. 19 in the 900 Room. She will speak about the situation in the African nations of Burundi and Rwanda.
Colombian Rebels blew up a southern oil pipeline last Sunday that carries over 58,000 barrels a day, most of it
from Ecuador. The attack was part of a recent offensive to protest Bogota’s effort to halt coca growing. Rebels on
Friday blew up Colombia’s largest pipeline. Beer prices have risen nearly 3% this year, perhaps signaling the end of a
price war that squeezed profits even as sales remained tepid. A survey of attitudes on drug use found two-thirds of
parents who tried marijuana expect their children will do so and see little they can do to stop it. Among
parents who never tried drugs, just 29% think their children will. The Columbia University study polled 1,200 teens and 1,266
parents. Died: Bill Monroe, 84, a creator of the Bluegrass style of country music, in Springfield, TN, after suffering a
stroke. —from the Wall Street Journal Start thinking about getting an absentee ballot to vote. See Libertas (September 12th issue)
for details. THE Crossword ACROSS 1 Baobab or yew 5 French painter 10 Cable 14 Has a meal 15 Precise
16 Surrounded by 17 Landed 18 Musician 19 Copenhagen citizen 20 Musical offering 22 Character in fairy tales 24 Mud
25 Once called 26 Unoccupied 29 Charge taken on bets 34 Ebb 35 Warning signal 36 Inlet 37 Theater section
38 Ballot caster 39 Set of type 40 Adam's mate 41 Unit of capacitance 42 Ponce de Leon 43 Depot
45 Analyzes grammatically 46 Actress MacGraw 48 High cards 52 Ironed 56 Culture medium 57 Fete 59 Scarlett's home 60
Short note 61 Wear gradually 62 Arabian ruler 63 Observed 64 Saves affectionately 65 Tom DOWN 1 Russian ruler 2
Reign 3 Poem style 4 Educated guess 5 Leave 6 Send out of the country 7 Wide space 10 Climber's
need 11 Muslim priest 12 Columbus’ ship 13 First garden 21 Prong 23 Sign gas 26 Male servant 27 Overhead
28 Essential play 29 Life-sustaining 30 Angered 31 Golf clubs 32 From then until now 33 Loathes 35 Swamp bird
38 Disappeared 39 British novelist 41 Office cabinet 42 Peel 44 Woman 45 Sounded like a cat 47 Dinnerware maker
48 Eccentric wheels 49 Molding style 50 Title 51 Bull: Sp. 53 Ditto 54 Ireland 55 Tapered tuck 58 Negative
