~ SPORTS 14 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1996

Kruse’s Cubby Women rock

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

1996 has already been a tremendous year for women’s sports worldwide. More women participated—and won—in Atlanta than at any previous
Olympiad. While Dream Team III played dull, uninspired basketball on its way to gold, the women hoopsters proved to be
the real Dreamers, marching triumphantly to an emotional and convincing championship victory over Brazil. The women’s soccer and softball teams
both captured golds in their sports’ first-ever Olympic appearances. Track stars Gail Devers, Gwen Torrence, and Jackie Joyner-Kersee also found
glory in Atlanta. And squeaky gymnast Kerri Strug gave the world perhaps the Games’ most enduring image, vaulting the Stars
and Stripes onto the top of the women’s gymnastics medal stand for the first time ever.

About four hours northeast, call Davidson Atlanta II, as women’s athletics are poised to vault to the forefront of this
year’s campus sports scene. In yesterday’s Women’s Sports column in the Observer, the women’s soccer team was highlighted as the
favorite in the Southern Conference coaches’ poll to claim its third straight league tournament championship. The Wildcats sport senior leadership
in tri-captains Kelly Ammann, Lucia Plosser, and Melissa Moser, a superhuman goalie in Allison Noznesky and, with the addition of
a huge freshmen group, boast unprecedented depth.

But they are not the only Wildcat women to watch this year. The volleyball team, Southern Conference doormat in the
past, welcomed an impressive rookie corps of its own this fall. The youngsters played a big role in this weekend’s
Davidson Invitational, as the volleyball squad opened its season by winning two of three matches. And in a sky of
optimism surrounding Davidson women’s sports, the women’s basketball team is probably the single-brightest star. Last year, the Wildcats broke out
of the conference cellar in a big way, posting a program-record 14 wins and advancing to the conference semifinals at
the Greensboro Coliseum. The NCAA News rated them the fifth most improved team in the country and, with yet another
superlative recruiting class, this year’s squad is nothing short of spectacular.

As is the outlook for Davidson women’s sports in this, The Year of the Female ‘Cat.

Men stun #6 Gamecocks in nightcap

By MICHAEL KRUSE & DANIEL MOTZ
Sports Editor and Copy Editor

Player of the game Phil Julien, in a commercial break from his postgame interview, looked over at a sedate Charlie
Slagle and asked incredulously, “Slagle, are you happy?” After a short pause, the head coach cracked a smile and answered,
“That I am.” He and 785 other Wildcat fans at Richardson Field Sunday night who saw Davidson shock sixth-ranked South
Carolina, 1-0, in the biggest win for the men’s soccer team since it advanced to the NCAA Final Four in
1992.

The victory erased any doubts created by a disheartening 3-0 loss at Wake Forest on Friday night, as the Wildcats
(1-1) did a complete one-eighty, controlling much of the play versus the touted Gamecocks. The Davidson defense was as outstanding
yesterday as it was poor on Friday, holding the offensively potent Gamecocks, who averaged 17.5 shots a game last season,
to just nine shots. Carolina superstar Clint Mathis, the nation’s leading goal-scorer last year with 25 tallies, managed only one
shot and appeared frustrated all game.

The Wildcat offense, largely ineffective at Wake Forest, was impressive, blasting 12 shots on goal. Most importantly though, Julien beat
Gamecock goalkeeper John Mills on one of them. “Isaac (Stewart) played a quick ball to Keith (Kleeman) and Keith played
a great ball to me,” said Julien of his game-winner in the 23rd minute. “And I was able to tuck
it away. It felt great.”

“Phil was really tough out there today,” said Slagle. “We created 12 shots, which is great against South Carolina. The
entire front line got their chances.” Julien led the team with four shots and defending Southern Conference Player of the
Year Robert Clarke added three, but had easily half-a-dozen legitimate scoring opportunities. Freshman Hartwell Roper had two, and Coley Dominiak
and Kleeman each contributed one.

“The kids played really well,” said Slagle. “We stepped it up after a 3-0 loss. That’s not easy to do.”

The biggest win since that fabled tourney run of four years ago, coach? “It may be. (South Carolina) is a
great team. I don’t think they’ll lose more than four games all year.”No doubt about it, according to Julien. “Yes.
It’s the biggest win since the Final Four year. It’s number six South Carolina. Big game. We’re a good team
and we know that. But we needed to prove it.” Especially after the dismal season-opener against the 23rd-ranked Demon Deacons,
in which Wake Forest took advantage of a flat Davidson team, scoring all three goals in the first half and
coasting to the easy victory, avenging a 3-1 loss to the Wildcats last year. Davidson did settle down to play
a respectable second frame, but the Demon Deacons dominated for the most part, outshooting the Wildcats, 13-5. So what made
the drastic difference?

“We played with heart,” said midfielder Fernando Campos. “We played like we wanted it.”

Women’s soccer beats South Carolina
Freshman collects game-winner in the final moments of thrilling opener
By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

It was like something out of a movie. Only seconds remaining in her first college game, the score knotted at
one, Ginny Dye collected a near perfect pass from midfielder Linda Rothemund on the right flank. She cut the ball
back, taking the defender out of the play, and knocked it over a diving Amanda Sandling to clinch the Wildcats'
2-1 season-opening win over South Carolina.

“I knew there wasn’t much time left, and when I shot it my eyes were so big. I was saying
please go in. And everything was in slow motion. I saw it go over the goalie’s hands. Oh, it was
such a great feeling,” Dye said excitedly.

South Carolina had struck in the fourth minute when Jennie Ondo broke through the Davidson defense and beat goalkeeper Allison
Noznesky in a one-on-one situation.

“I was impressed with our composure. After that first goal we really played hard and fought our way back into
the game,” coach Kevin Hundley said. “We have a lot of freshmen playing key positions. I could guess at the
veterans, but I didn’t know how the freshmen would react.”

And the freshmen came up big. Kelly Rennick tied the score when she headed an Amy Kanoff corner kick past
Sandling in the 46th minute. In addition, Amy Balsinger stepped into the hole at sweeper and played a solid game.

“She (Balsinger) was outstanding and played with poise and composure. You don’t ask your sweeper to make big plays, just
all the plays,” Hundley quipped.

Rennick, who played much of the game at center midfield with Rothemund, felt a sense of relief at scoring her
first collegiate goal. “To be honest, the first goal (that USC scored) was my fault because I didn’t recover. I
needed to make it up, and I knew it was my job to put a head on the ball if
Kanoff got it to the back half of the goal,” she said. “I did it, and it felt great.”

But all of these heroics would have meant nothing without a few spectacular saves from Noznesky. Late in the first
half, South Carolina ripped a shot from the top of the box that Noznesky was able to tip over the
crossbar.

“Allie (Noznesky) came up big for us. Those saves are so meaningful because they’re the difference between being down 1-0
and 2-0 at the half. There were a couple times where they did what they needed to do to score,
and Allie came up with the big play,” Hundley said.

The other huge save came moments before Dye’s game-winner. South Carolina star Debbie Smith made a run up the sideline,
leaving a perfect cross for Ondo who one-touched the ball on goal. In textbook fashion, Noznesky followed the pass across
the goalmouth and dove back to her left to snag the shot.

“It’s the same drill we’ve done in keeper warm-ups every single day since pre-season. Cover my backside. The credit goes
more towards the assistant coach (Debra Biche) and the other keeper (Chesley Garrett),” Noznesky said.

And while the excitement from the dramatic win permeated the field, the team was clearly focused on something more. “We
need to take the intensity from today’s game and practice with it, play with it, sleep with it, eat with
it, and look ahead to Clemson,” Noznesky added.

That game will be at Clemson on Sept. 9, following a match-up at Wofford on Saturday. “We came a long
way towards being a team today, and we will win if we play as a unit,” Hundley said.
