2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS BRIEFS

SGA names student member of Computing Committee

Clay Lenhart, a senior, was chosen as the student member of the Faculty Committee on Academic Computing.

Project Life Raffle results in big winners

Project Life’s raffle to raise funds for the organization, which sponsors Davidson’s annual bone marrow registry drive, yielded five major
winners at half-time of Davidson’s football game on Saturday. Tickets were sold on Friday and Saturday, at $2 each or
three for $5. Raffle winners include:
- Hot Air Balloon Ride — Keith Driscoll
- Charlotte Panthers Tickets — Lori Thompson
- YMCA Membership — Lowell Ryburne
- A Tom Clark Gnome — Sunny Harris
- Charlotte Checkers Tickets — Mordecai Stolk
- Melting Pot coupons — Andrew Holbrooke
- Basket from Village Store — Kim Kaiser
- $50 gift certificate from Village Store — Erica Thomas
- Autographed Patricia Cornwell novel — Meredith Strong
- Tickets to Discovery Place — Nicholas Suchsius

Polling and Response surveys down-the-hill residents

The SGA's Polling and Response committee, chaired by sophomore senator Jonathan Sipling, recently surveyed sophomore residents of Knox, Akers, and
Irwin dorms. Concerns and complaints of 77 respondents were tabulated by the committee. Following are a sample of commonly raised
concerns.

Oversights in down-the-hill dorms:
- lack of lighting
- lack of ice machines
- insufficient air conditioning
- no sinks in rooms

Positive aspects of down-the-hill dorms:
- carpet
- laundry facilities
- walk-in closets
- air conditioning/heat control
- lounges

Landscaping suggestions for down-the-hill dorms:
- flowers
- grass
- benches

44 of the 77 respondents said they feel “satisfied” with their experience living down the hill this year. Survey results
were presented to Kurt Holmes, Director of Residence Life. Holmes had requested the survey to better gauge the experiences of
students living in newly renovated Knox, Irwin, and Akers dormitories.

NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1996

Flexible Weekend Hours Earn Holiday $$

Enthusiastic people needed to promote products and distribute samples for retail and grocery stores. Work Fri/Sat/Sun with flexible scheduling. 1-800-799-6246
ext. 158

New Union committee visits nearby unions for inspiration

By ANDREW PRESTON
Staff Writer

Recently, the Planning Committee for a New College Union visited three other college unions to find ideas for Davidson’s new
Union. The committee analyzed pros and cons of unions in Elon College, Duke University, and Appalachian State University.

Elon College had the newest union of the three, as it is only one year in operation. The committee cited
the large student offices, as well as a more visible bookstore and student mail offices as positive aspects. The union
also had a good location, and private dining rooms. The group noted several negative characteristics of Elon’s Union, including lack
of storage space in the bookstore, and other areas as well. The union’s main center seemed clogged, and the student
offices were closed off with twisting corridors, making for awkward traffic patterns. Most importantly, the committee felt the union to
be too fancy and not friendly enough, acting as more of a development building than a student building.

Duke University’s Union was built around 1980, and unlike Elon College, is comfortable with fine theaters and semi-private places in
the midst of activity. The union also has a large bookstore, mailboxes, and a coffee shop. In general, the union
was more casual than the one...in Elon. However, the Committee felt the offices were too open and lacked character, and
were simply too big to serve as a good model for Davidson. The Committee found that Appalachian State’s Union was
well planned out, with a good mixture of both old and new elements. There seemed to be heavy student involvement
in the planning and good space for student organizations. The Union holds a computer room, fitness space, multicultural space, and
is nearby to game rooms and pubs. Much like with the Elon Union, the Committee found that the Appalachian State
Union was too cold, including the color scheme of the building. The Committee also felt that the space for student
offices was unevenly distributed, giving too much space to some organizations and not enough to others.

Source: New College Union Committee's notes on Site Visitations in July, 1996.

Martin sees major improvements from page 1

The renovations “are designed to improve research instruction by providing a lab-rich research and instructional environment that promotes group problem
solving and research independence.” The report continues, “The renovated research laboratories and related prep, instrument, and support spaces will facilitate
more effective research and research training in Organic, Physical, and Analytical Chemistry.” This reconstruction will also provide more space for
research equipment and better ventilation, and bring the entire building up to current building codes. The renovations are aimed mostly
for research facilities, but they will facilitate both instruction and research.

Along with the faculty in the chemistry department, most chemistry students will profit from the new facilities, more specifically, students
in a chemistry course or doing independent study beyond the freshman level. Construction is set to begin immediately after the
spring semester of 1997 and should not affect students or faculty conducting classes currently. Desks and other laboratory instruments have
been ordered and will be moved in and installed during construction which will take place throughout the summer. The facilities
are scheduled to be ready by the end of August in time for the fall semester. Dr. Carroll says he
looks forward to the renovations: “These new facilities will be more suitable for the research and experimenting we anticipate for
the future.”

Proposal suggests eliminating Humanities from page 1

The proposal suggests eliminating the Humanities course in favor of writing seminars. “Our reasons for making the conjunction [between eliminating
Humanities in favor of writing seminars] were staffing concerns and better teaching of writing,” says Kaylor. Dr. Bob Manning, Professor
of Physics and Humanities, and the Director of the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies, had no comment for the Davidsonian. The
EPC will discuss the proposal once it has been read by all EPC members. Any further action on the proposal
is “up to the EPC to set in motion,” says Kaylor.

History and Humanities Professor Dr. C. Earl Edmondson says that “the Humanities program should obviously be discussed from time to
time.” However, he says he would like to explore the possibility of “a new type of approach that could coexist
with the Humanities program.” The four-semester Humanities course was introduced in the mid-1960s. Today over 200 students are enrolled in
the course, which spans students’ freshman and sophomore years.

Be in the know. Write for News. Call Kirsten or Randy, 2148.
