THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS Ivy League Student APRIL 22, 1995 9

Davidson needs grade inflation

I was recently visiting Davidson and the subject of grade inflation came up. Since I go to a well-known school
where the average GPA comes in at 3.2, just below an A minus, I got an earful. I was told
that at schools like my own students have diluted academic experiences because As are way too easy to get. But
we haven’t cheapened anything. Our academics remain strong while our system makes it easier for us to get jobs because
of our higher GPAs.

The arguments against “grade inflation” do sound appealing. Why, after all, should half of a class receive the grade of
A minus in anything? Where is the excellence there? Why are people at such a school at all motivated to
work, and to truly push themselves? Whoa. After a few arguments like that I came back home ready to change
the system in my university. I marched into the office of a professor and asked him. His response was wry:
“If most of the people in my class are doing excellent work, shouldn’t I give them grades to reflect that?”
He smiled. “Isn’t that what fairness is?”

He’s right. Most of the work done here at my school, and perhaps this is even more true for Davidson,
is actually good or excellent. The overwhelming majority of us are good students. But not because of the grading system.
Even at my school, there is still significant separation of grades. Although A minuses and B pluses are common, Bs
and Cs and worse are by no means unheard of. As are very tough to get, A pluses are virtually
unknown. People at “grade inflated” schools still have enough latitude in grades to need and want to work. Dean’s List
and honors are both available only to students who beat out other students, so there is still some significant competition
and a means to tell who truly has the best grades, if anyone cares to know. Generally, however, we are
motivated simply because we want to learn and would like to do well, and not because we are afraid of
being smashed by a harsh grading system.

Outside of a few brutally competitive pre-medical classes, our academic atmosphere is often much different. In a grade system like
Davidson has, Bs or even B minuses are given to what is objectively quite good work. Students are pushed, at
least theoretically, by a competitive tension. Fear sets students against each other. Perhaps the Davidson professors and students are successful
in overcoming the grading system, and are rarely or hardly ever affected negatively. But that can’t deny the problem that
your grading system itself is designed to emphasize the individual, and not the group, and thus to harness and foster
a destructive competitiveness. Such a competitiveness is unlike the real world, anyway, where teams, businesses, interest groups, and even nations
compete, but where teamwork and collaboration are of crucial importance.

More importantly, the system in place at Davidson hurts you in the job market for no good reason. In my
school’s system one receives grades based on merit without competitiveness that still encourages excellence. Davidson’s system may work as well
internally to the school, although I doubt that. But you’re still shooting yourselves in the foot when you enter the
job market. I know, you don’t just go to school to get a transcript and a diploma in order to
find a job later. Thank God. None of us are so pre-professional, I hope. But a grading system that emphasizes
merit instead of competitiveness within a school simply would not detract from the quality of pedagogy at Davidson. On the
contrary, it would liberate students to work together and learn from each other.

Still, this is no time for self-foot-shooting. Seriously, I know a person with very good grades who received one offer
after 70 cover letters. Don’t expect it to be easier for you. When outsiders see your transcripts, they just won’t
look as good, because our grades for the same work are higher and fairer. Class averages printed next to your
grades may help those evaluators who both understand math and know a reasonable amount about Davidson, but you can’t expect
all your evaluators to meet both criteria. When they don’t understand, your job chances suffer.

Students should rightly be concerned about this issue. Faculty should be even more upset. Students are hurt by this as
seniors and after, but faculty get to watch it happen year after year. Students can’t know the effects exactly. “Would
I have gotten that interview if the grading system had been based on the merits of my own work, instead
of a harsh comparison with others?” you’ll wonder. But faculty can be sure that over the years, students are hurt,
undervalued by off-campus evaluators. The whole world will never know about Davidson’s peculiar grading system and...how it misrepresents its students.
Plenty of places have no idea about my school, either. But when they get our transcripts and your own, they’ll
read them both. They’ll be more apt to understand ours than yours.

El Jefe

April: el Ratón, frats, and porch furniture

Well, it’s certainly taken me some time to submit an article to The Davidsonian after the finale of my tumultuous
and controversial tenure as undisputed dictator of the Opinions Section. I must say that my protégé and successor, the incomparable
Katie McKelvie, has done quite a knock-down job as this semester’s editor. Anyway, the advantage for you, the reader, is
that you no longer need to suffer through columns of absent-minded rambling as I desperately try to fill space. No,
I now have the luxury of writing only when an issue grabs my interest. Issues—hmmmm, something conspicuously absent from my
regime, but I’m flexible. I can try working with issues.

So, I sat myself down with a copy of “the South’s foremost College Weekly” and perused the pages for a
potential debate. I looked, I tried—honestly—but I’m just not an issue man. Besides, it’s Spring. Who cares about controversial topics
when the weather is so nice and the lake campus, softball field, relaxing porch furniture beckons enticingly, saying “the library
is evil, the devil’s workshop. Come to me and worship the sun. Throw down your bifocals and thesis statements and
baste in the azure glow of the April afternoon, catching rays like a rotisserie chicken.” Am I the only one
who hears these voices? Maybe I need help.

So if you haven’t noticed, it’s Spring. Frat boys are discarding T-shirts like Kleenex, displaying a wondrous assortment of guts—everything
from the classic folds of carefully cultivated beer bellies to the solid washboards of gym rats. Frisbees fly, hacky sacks
bounce, and the scores of granolas invade the campus with their paisley tapestries and lava lamps. I even caught a
few blinking math majors creeping timidly from the library with calculators in hand to do proofs in the sun.

Yes, everyone is enjoying the Spring because it’s April, the birth-month of Shakespeare, El Jefe, and other literary giants. It’s
the month of Fool’s Day, Earth Day, and the mother of all weekends, Spring Frolics. So in this time of
celebration, where do we find time for the rigorous demands of the classroom? This question has stumped me now for
almost four years until recently when I had what I can only interpret as a divine experience.

A few days ago, while lounging with some friends on a beautiful day, a pear-shaped neighbor who I will only
refer to as “el Ratón” decided he would take off his shirt to remedy his growing farmer’s tan. So el
Ratón lifted his shirt above his head and tossed it towards his chair a few feet away. Just as the
crumpled garment landed lightly on the chair, the sun peeked out from behind a cloud, projecting a gleaming ray of
pure, brilliant light directly onto the stark white physique of my friend. As a blinding glare reflected into the eyes
of all onlookers, cries of agony flew from my companions’ mouths, followed by a series of comments beginning with “Good
Lord, I’m blind!” and ending with “In the name of all that is decent and holy, cover yourself!”

But as my friends shielded their eyes from the unbearable glare, a chorus of angels or the music from behind
the hacky sackers swelled in the background, and I suddenly knew the solution to the Springtime dilemma. Yes, here it
is, direct from divinity or a brain-damaging flash of light (take your pick), my contribution to the future students of
this college: all classes, papers, and assignments from April 1 to the end of the year should work on a
bonus system. That is, if you go to class or do the work, you get a bonus. Or perhaps we
should extend optional class week to include all of April and make it optional to students.

I’m not saying I would never go to class. Not at all, I just think we should all be aware
of the very real infection of Spring Fever. Remember, we are a liberal arts institution that promotes well-rounded students. Now,
many of my friends have taken “well-rounded” as a physical attribute, but as they gaze admirably at their bellies, I
still believe in a balanced, multi-faceted education. We have seven months to worry about traditional learning; let April be a
time to work on the finer points. Consider it life-skills, physical education, practice in social skills and networking, whatever. Call
it what you will, just please, get outside.

Note: if any of my current professors have read this article and interpreted it as an indication that the weather
has prevented me from completing my assignments this month, consider this piece an exercise in “the unreliable narrator” that we
so often discuss.

Cheers.
