The Davidsonian  
ALENDA LUX: UBI ORTA LIBERTAS  
DAVIDSON COLLEGE  
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1996  
VOLUME 88, NUMBER 3

1. Swarthmore  
2. Amherst  
3. Williams  
4. Wellesley  
5. Pomona  
6. Haverford  
7. Middlebury  
8. Bowdoin  
9. Carleton  
10. Bryn Mawr  
11. Davidson

TEN BEST LIBERAL ARTS COLLEGES according to U.S. News and World Report

By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL  
News Editor

This year, Davidson sits at number 11 among the nation’s 160 liberal arts colleges, according to U.S. News & World Report’s “America’s Best Colleges” issue which goes on sale today. Davidson’s overall score is 90.2 out of 100. Broken up, we rank 15th in academic reputation, 9th in student selectivity, 57th in faculty resources, 22nd in financial resources, 12th in reputation, and 6th in annual giving.

Davidson drops to 21st place when ranked according to sticker price value — a ratio of quality to price; the school drops even further to 28th when ranked according to discount price — sticker price including scholarships and financial aid. In ‘94-95, “America’s Best Colleges” proclaimed Davidson the eighth best liberal arts school. However, Davidsonians’ pride in the ranking was short-lived. When the annual college guide published its ‘95-96 rankings, the powers that be at U.S. News & World Report cast Davidson down an unexpected 13 places. While the school managed to retain a berth among the Top 25 National Liberal Arts Colleges, it didn’t hang on by much: Davidson spent the year at an uncelebrated 21st place ranking.

Criticized in recent years for failing to check data supplied by schools and for making small computational errors, U.S. News ranks national colleges and universities separately. Rankings are based on 18 factors, including a school’s Academic Reputation, Faculty and Financial Resources, Retention Rate, Education Expenditures Per Student, and students’ SAT/ACT scores.

Following last year’s downward slide to 21, Davidson’s Director of Institutional Research John Kelton went to Washington D.C. to speak with U.S. News officials. “Davidson didn’t change and I don’t think our peer institutions changed either,” says Kelton of Davidson’s recent ranking fluctuations. “The major thing last year was that [U.S. News & World Report]...”

See US News on page 5

— Fran misses Davidson, but hits home for some

By RANDY HARTWELL  
Associate News Editor

With an RLO hurricane update hotline, requests for cellular phones and flashlights, and campus police urging students to move their cars away from fury on Thursday night. RLO staff was under instructions to monitor the whereabouts of their advisees. “We had to make sure [our freshwomen] were here or knew where they were,” says Hall Counselor Jennifer Sanborn '98. “We tried to make sure they had flashlights... [because RLO] told us to expect a power outage.”

When Davidson was spared the brunt of the storm most breathed sighs of relief. However, two cars were smashed when an old tree in front of Chambers came crashing to the ground on Friday. But some students, especially residents of Raleigh and Wilmington, weren’t breathing so easily. “My family automobile, which we’ve had for 12 years, was totaled when a tree fell on it,” says senior Sallie Permar, who is from Raleigh. “A tree fell on the house, and they’ve had to close streets. There’s still no power, and they just got phone service back [yesterday].”

E.H. Little library makes big changes

By...ANDREW PRESTON Staff Writer

Students will be pleasantly surprised this fall with the changes in E.H. Little Library. Dr. Leland Park, Library Director, described many changes in the library that will give students more research tools. Thirteen PC workstations were added, all equipped with Netscape for Web access. The Bibliographic Instruction PC, located in the 24-hour room, was upgraded for access to the Web via Netscape. Project Muse, a set of 19 online academic journals published by Johns Hopkins University Press, was also added. This new capability allows students to find information quickly from many different sources, including Web sites for government documents of the President’s daily speeches and a tour of the White House. The Library also has its own home page.

The biggest improvement was the addition of the Z39.50 module to CHAL, which allows CHAL users to use standard software when accessing other libraries, so that users only need to know one set of commands. Park states, “Eventually all good libraries will have this... For now, Davidson is one of the first.” The Encyclopedia Britannica was added online with full text and prints, as well as “the ability to search by topic throughout the entire set, not just via the index,” Park explains. Five indices that were previously offered on CD-ROM are also currently available online (Medline, MLA, Econlit, Sociofile, PAIS), so that several people can use them at once.

Research materials weren’t the only additions; three copy machines and a fax are being installed, as well as a CHAL hotline. Furthermore, e-mail was moved “so that those using e-mail will have more uninterrupted time and those needing to access resources on CHAL can have access to terminals,” says Park. A comparison of our library to other schools our size, page 5.

He’s here! Page 10

Intramurals

INTERVIEW............. WHERE........... expand. Susan: U.S. Postage Paid Davidson, NC 28036

ARTS & LIVING........10 Sports 15 CROSSWORD......... 1

Tales from the crypt ... Gravedigging in Davidson

By ALLISON DOLPH Staff Writer

Just a short walk down Main Street is a quiet place, full of serenity and the legacies of the past. The Davidson College Cemetery is the final resting place of nine past mayors, ten college presidents, and 12 students. William Andrew, class of 1895, met his death on one of those rare winter days when a lake near Davidson froze enough to go ice skating. He never even got a chance to lace up his skates. William, better known as “Arnie,” was so excited about the sudden blast of cold weather that he ran upstairs in Old Chambers to grab his skates. On his way back down, Arnie fell over the railing to the floor below and died two days later.

There was the Bavarian workman, Mathias Engle, who was killed while quarrying rock for the construction of Old Chambers. Out of gratitude for his labor, the town of Davidson erected an honorary monument in the college cemetery. Trains did not arrive in Davidson until 1860, so students were buried at the College Cemetery because there was no way to ship their bodies home. In 1854, while a student at Davidson, John Stitt Williamson died of smallpox. Several months later his father, Samuel Williamson, then president of the college, personally vaccinated each Davidson student against smallpox.

Just when you think you’ve seen everything there is to see in tiny Davidson...