14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Matching wits with elusive wild turkey
John Roe

Wild turkey represents a tough hunt for springtime woodsmen.

By JOHN ROE
Staff writer

The spring woods in the early morning hours can be magical, almost enchanted. An eerie silence hides the sleeping forest while the contours of the surrounding countryside remain a mystery draped in darkness. At the first hint of gray, a few forms materialize and a lone whippoorwill begins its repetitive song. Soon afterward, the sun peaks over the eastern horizon, and the rest of the woods awake. You stand now, on the top of a ridge looking out over the surrounding country, listening for the sound of spring - the turkey’s gobble.

Hunting for wild turkeys is a unique experience, for it is one of the only game animals that can be hunted in the spring. Trying to call in a wild turkey can be a unique experience as well, for most of the time, all efforts seem futile. Trying to stalk a turkey can be even more frustrating, because they can detect a blink of an eye at sixty yards, while their ears are capable of hearing even the softest of sounds.

So, if hunting turkeys is so frustrating, why do hunters flock to the woods each year, catch turkey hunting fever, sometimes never to return to their normal lives when spring comes? Maybe the answer lies in the rejuvenating feeling of spending each day in the newly awakened spring woods, or the sweet taste of wild turkey. But the reason I return to the woods time and time again is found in the challenge of the hunt. No other game animal has been in my sights for so long, only to seemingly disappear into thin air. No other animal has seemed so dead set on coming into range, only to change its direction for reasons still unknown to me. Only the wild turkey has been able to present so many puzzling situations on consecutive days, never offering a discernible pattern.

It is the unpredictable nature of the wild turkey that gives each hunt a new twist, and makes each decision on the hunter's part so important. Trying to match wits with a wild turkey has often been compared to a chess match. It makes a move, and the hunter must do his best to match each move with his bag of tricks. However, the turkey can usually adjust, presenting all new problems, and soon the hunter runs out of tricks. This back-and-forth mental battle usually ends with the hunter scratching his head, puzzled beyond belief, and the turkey strutting proudly through the spring woods, gobbling throughout his territory.

If you would like to put your best hunting skills against such a creature, and if you don’t mind being shut out for entire seasons, try hunting the wild turkey. It can be a humbling experience for the best of hunters.

Weekly Schedule

Baseball
Tues. vs. Campbell 3:00
Wed. @ UNCC 6:30
Sat. vs. WCU (2) Noon

Golf
Mon.-Tues. SC Tournament @ Stony Creek

Rugby
Sun. vs. WCU 1:00
Sat. vs. St. Andrews

Men’s Tennis
Today vs. ETSU 2:00
Fri.-Sun. SC Tournament @ Furman

Women’s Lacrosse
Tues. @ UNC 6:00
Thur. @ Virginia Tech 4:00
Sat. @ Roanoke Noon
Sun. vs. Ohio St. Noon

Women’s Tennis
Tues. @ UNC 3:00
Fri.-Sun. SC Tournament @ Davidson

Men’s and Women’s Track
Fri.-Sat. SC Tournament @ ETSU

MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1996

Filar snags two top recruits
Point-guard and one post player further brighten future

By DANIEL MOTZ
Staff Writer

Coach John Filar and the women’s basketball program have a right to be excited. After failing to post a winning record for over a decade, including a 4-23 campaign in 1994-95, the Wildcats advanced to last month’s Southern Conference semifinals in Greensboro, capping off the best season in program history. Now Filar and Davidson have signed two highly touted recruits, Jennifer O’Brien and Katie Camp, bringing even greater optimism to the up-and-coming squad and making the Wildcats one of the Southern’s deepest pools of talent.

O’Brien, a 5’6" point guard out of Middletown, Connecticut, averaged 23 points per game in leading her team, Mercy High School, to the state title. She was named Connecticut’s second-most sought after prep player, and garnered first team all-state honors. While O’Brien is a naturally explosive point guard, coach Filar believes that her potent outside shooting makes her a legitimate threat at the two-guard as well. "Jennifer’s extremely dangerous in the open court," said Filar, “Her excellent shooting and pinpoint passing...make her almost impossible to guard.” Camp, on the other hand, gives Filar the dominant low-post player he has been looking for. At 6’1”, she led the state of Michigan in scoring at 28.9 points a contest. She was nominated for the state’s Ms. Basketball, finishing fourth. “We've been looking for a player like Katie for a long time, and to get someone with this much talent is an added plus,” commented a happy Filar.

This recruiting class, which earned an honorable mention in the Blue Star Scouting Report, follows the best recruiting class in Wildcat history, Jamie and Kerry Brown and Jessica Montrella. Filar said this is the first time Davidson has secured consecutive classes this strong, and it will definitely give the team a solid talent base for years to come. “It’s been a long time coming, but I feel like we’ve really turned the corner,” said Filar.

Filar is also excited that his staff was able to out-recruit some traditionally bigger programs and bring more top-notch players to campus. O’Brien chose Davidson over James Madison and Rhode Island, Camp over Seton Hall. “To beat out the bigger schools is really great. People are beginning to see how high our commitment level to winning really is,” noted Filar.

Current Wildcats also express enthusiasm for the new signees. Said Jamie Brown, “I’m looking forward to playing with the new players coming in.” “Jen and Katie bring talent that continues to build the program,” added Montrella, “I’m happy with the season we had this year, but I’m looking forward to achieving more, and Jen and Katie will definitely help.”

Covington: a long way from Augusta
By Carlo Reynolds
Staff Writer

A golfer unfamiliar with Davidson’s Covington golf course would have to aim his tee shot on the par-four by pinpointing the green’s relative flatness because there is no meticulously groomed turf or even a flag marking the cup. Instead, spring dandelions dot the fairways and tees. Many golfers have expressed anger and concern concerning the school’s waning commitment to the course.

Last fall, Burt Arrington, upset about the ankle-deep weeds infiltrating the fairways, phoned his complaints to the Physical Plant for nearly a week before mowers finally rolled out to trim Covington. Now in an unprecedented state of disrepair, some students have given up on the course. Johnny Frierson, who once frequented the course, now golfs primarily in Mooresville. “There’s no point to Covington anymore because they don’t take care of it,” he said in disgust.

Students echo Frierson’s sentiments. “It was playable my freshman year, but we’re not talking immaculate,” said Aubrey Proud, senior captain of the golf team. “We don’t play the holes. We use it basically as a driving range.” Proud says that the team traditionally practices at River Run or Mallard Head Country Clubs, both near Davidson. He added that the three holes between the IMAC fields and Martin Court are intended to be purely a recreational facility for the general student body, not as a team practice site.

The Physical Plant blames Covington’s neglect on personnel transition and maintenance priority for central campus. “The guy that used to do it (Covington maintenance) was transferred to another department,” said Philip Cashion, who has recently been appointed to oversee the course’s restoration. “It’s going to take a while to bring it up to what you and I am used to a golf course looking like, but it’s in the workings.”

Cashion has been given authority to mend the tattered holes. The fences bordering the edge of the facility have already been repaired. Building new drains is the next stage in Cashion’s demanding job. But Proud is skeptical about the drainage plan. “I’ve never noticed puddles out there,” he said. He believes the best action would be to sprig or sod Bermuda grass, the preferred grass for most courses in the south, if Covington is to be improved for more than just the immediate future. Bermuda turns brown in the winter, but grows rapidly in the warmer months, choking out most weeds with its dense cover.

Cashion says he has not decided how much he will spend on grass and is unsure what variety he will choose. But he is certain that something will be done soon about the grass, but that it is the next stage after the drainage project is finished. Cashion remains optimistic about the road ahead though. “I’d say that it will be much better by fall probably.”