Mumm...” PPPMBBRH6, 1996

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
MARY CLARE JALONICK

Associate Editor
TERESA WHITE

News Editor
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL

Associate News Editor
RANDY HARTWELL

Opinions Editors
NINA BLOUNT
KRISTEN RICHARDSON

Arts & Living Editor
SUSAN RUGGIERO

Cartoonist
GREG GARRISON

Assoc. Arts & Living Editor
JILL WILLIAMS

Business Manager
CAROLINE BYNUM

Sports Editors
WILL BRADSHAW
MICHAEL KRUSE

Advertising Managers
BETH BACON
MEREDITH LUCIUS

Photo Editor
BEN DeLISA

Circulation Manager
McNEIL CARSWELL

Copy Editors
CARRIE BLACKBURN
CLAY LENHART

Web Page Managers
JILL WILLIAMS
BRAD CHASE
DANIEL MOTZ
ERIC PENDERGRASS

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Contagious?

The first time. Why is first night down often confused for first time down? First time to gratify the impulse to lose control and to drink to the point of vomiting. Let the frenzied rhythms of music and bodies invade and overcome. No curfew, no rules, (not many if any). Free reign, free beer, freedom. No mother or father to ask, “Where are you going, when will you be home, whose house, whose car?” First night to party hard? Maybe not. But first night at Davidson, with upperclassmen, freshmen, and anyone else seeking the ultimate weekend experience? Yes. The first time.

And is it first night to lie face down pressed into your bed with your hand behind your back, naked and scared? First time for terror? First realization that Davidson isn’t a tourbook Utopia? They say to move in packs. Take friends. Look out for each other. These are the warnings. These are not mom’s warnings, these are the words of the terrified, broken girl pressed face down into her bed. They are the warnings of the half-conscious girl too weak to struggle. They are the warnings of the sober girl who volunteered to take care of a drunken stranger.

Excessive drinking and partying, newfound freedom and “friendships” spell rape for unsuspecting Davidson women each year on their first night down. There are no statistics; there are only stories — stories told the next morning in tears to a roommate, or revealed to a friend over a beer a couple of weeks later, or confessed to a qualified professional in the first of ten free counseling sessions, or performed four years later to an audience of hundreds at Take Back the Night. Or perhaps there is no story to tell at all, just a hangover and homework that goes unfinished that weekend. We hope so.

The Court is not necessarily a place to avoid or to tip-toe through with your trusty 911 alarm in hand. But it is not a place to stumble into blindly either.

To the Editors:

In response to Joseph Hayworth’s article entitled “Safety or Tradition?” I would like to make the following remarks. First, I am shocked to find that someone who chose an institution of higher learning based on the ambiance of doors can actually write a complete sentence, let alone an entire article. I guess that it should not surprise me that this same person finds the marginal benefits of increased safety and peace of mind outweighed by the marginal cost of loss of tradition by installing CAT-card accessible locks on the doors of Chambers. But this does surprise me.

I find your “solution” to the issue of safety even more absurd than your initial argument. Do you really think that self-defense classes are sufficient to protect all students on campus from external threats? Following your line of logic, we should also take the locks off the dorms and all rooms as long as everyone knows how to knee an assailant in the groin properly. There is absolutely no reason for any student who is even remotely concerned about safety to object to the new security measures. I had been told that the students made the decision regarding the locks. If this is the case, you could have been part of the “powers-that-be” that you referred to in your article. By stating your case to the appropriate council, your argument could have made adifference. Being so new on campus, I guess we really cannot blame you. I hope I never have to read one of your articles again. I also hope never to come into contact with you in case whatever you have is contagious.
Alan Hutson, ’97

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

The man looked angry I thought. Very angry as a matter of fact. Browsing the racks at the Little Professor store in Cornelius, I wondered what had happened. Someone was in trouble. Would I ever find out? It turned out that I found out more than I needed to know.

“Why did you hit my car?” he snarled behind me. I spun around startled, and found myself staring into bloodshot eyes.

“Huh?” I queried.

“You hit my car!!!” he screamed.

“What are you talking about?” I asked, perplexed.

“You hit my car in the lot,” he yelled again. “She saw you do it,” he raged, pointing at a middle-aged woman behind him.

“Yep, I sure did,” she nodded.

“Yeah, we saw you too,” agreed another couple coming into the store behind them. More people poured into the store, all agreeing loudly that I was in fact the dastardly villain responsible for damaging this poor man’s car.

“And you expect me to believe that all these people are lying?” ranted the man. “They SAW you, and they are ALL lying. Why?”

I turned desperately to the bookstore staff to provide an alibi (I had been inside for quite a while), and found that they had chosen this precise moment to convene an Annual General Meeting on the other side of the store. I began to feel like the accused in a Western when he peers out of the cell, sees the lynch mob outside, and finds the bobbling sheriff has grabbed his hat and headed out the back door to inspect distant parts.

Ultimately, I managed to shout my way out of the rabble of suburbanites, and emerged shaken but otherwise unharmed from the incident. It did, however, set me thinking. In a court of law, with so many witnesses, I would have been convicted. I could drag in a protesting Brian (my roommate and chauffeur) to testify that I never drove cars or shoved carts around, but a jury would laugh him out of court. Matter of fact, I began to wonder how so many people could have claimed to see me do something which I not only knew I had not done, but could not possibly have done (seeing as how I do not drive, at least in America). I even found myself wondering if I could possibly have done it unawares, before the absurdity of the whole thing became clear.

What am I trying to say here? Just this: sometimes, it is just possible that when “the accused” protests their innocence, they just might be telling the truth. There is a reason why “innocent till proven guilty” is an accepted legal principle. While a judicial process may be clear and fair, people can and do fall through the flaws in “the system.” If you follow the court system at all (and no, OJ doesn’t count) you are probably aware of some famous miscarriages. The Marine officer just released after 19 years, accused by his wife of beating her into a coma and murdering their children, freed because of DNA evidence. (The former wife, now remarried, has not been charged with any crime). Six black men in Ohio out after 15 years of protesting their innocence for a crime they didn’t commit. Many child abuse cases — the modern counterparts to the Salem Witch Trials. And other tragic cases.

See Saad page 8