SPORTS 14

Kruse’s Cubby

Bad signs

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

How times have changed. Last year the men's basketball team recruited a team manager by putting up signs around campus. The big perk was a free trip to a tournament in Las Vegas over Christmas Break. This year’s team has posted similar signs directed at potential players. This year’s exotic holiday extravaganza: Puerto Rico, where the ‘Cats will face UMass.

Speaking of bad signs, dollar signs are becoming an increasingly prevalent, if not dominant presence in sports at all levels. This recent stadium-renaming binge has risen to ridiculous heights. Whatever happened to Ye Olde Days when stadiums were just named for their team or city? Now we have 3Com Park instead of Candlestick in San Francisco. Continental Airlines Arena instead of Brendan Byrne Arena in New Jersey’s Meadowlands. And just a few weeks ago, Joe Robbie Stadium in Miami, home of baseball’s Marlins and football’s Dolphins, was renamed Pro Player Park. Pro Player is a branch of Fruit of the Loom. Underwear.

But this is the worst. Starting in 1998, the University of Louisville’s football field will cease to be Cardinal Stadium. It will instead be - brace yourself - Papa John’s Park. Yup. Like the pizza. What’s next? Belk Arena as Subway Center or Domino’s Arena? Richardson Field as Verbatim Field?

Back to the basketball team. Narcisse Ewodo, who hails from Yaounde, Cameroon, and is the lone senior on this year’s team, was highlighted in an article in October’s College Sports about the recent influx of international players in NCAA basketball. You see, Cisco, whose father is the chief of a one million-member Cameroonian tribe, is a prince. This created a sticky situation last spring when the Wildcats recruited a member of the same tribe, who could not look Cisco in the eye because of his royal standing. Ultimately, the prospect opted for a school other than Davidson. What did His Highness Cisco have to say about that? “Normally, he shouldn’t have gone against what I said. We'll take care of it when we get home.”

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1996

Men’s soccer wins two in Verbatim tourney

By DANIEL MOTZ
Copy Editor

Coach Slagle said depth was the key to his team’s success during this ‘96 campaign. And the Wildcats proved that this weekend, wearing down both Radford and Winthrop. On Saturday, Radford arrived ready to play, creating several scoring opportunities, but Wildcat keeper Matt Hill played tough, keeping Davidson tied at love at the half. But in the second half, Davidson’s depth prevailed. With 7:26 left in the game, forward Robert Clarke, Davidson’s ‘95 scoring leader, notched his first goal of the season, breaking a scoreless tie with a rocket off the cross-bar. He only made it a one-goal game, but Clarke’s goal seemed to put the Eagles away.

“We knew Radford was dying there in the end,” Slagle said. “We could have tacked on another goal or two, but the one was enough.”

Even before taking the field Sunday, Davidson’s depth took on a new level. Citing the severe mental strain of a goalkeeper, Slagle gave sophomore Bradford Stroble a start in the cage against Winthrop. “It’s a long season. Matt (Hill) is a great goalie, and I know he’s going to give us 17-18 games. But like the rest of us, he needs a rest. And with three games this week, it seemed logical to give Stroble a start,” Slagle explained.

Unlike Saturday, the Wildcats jumped out early on Sunday, taking a comfortable 2-0 lead into the half. But Winthrop (2-1), 3-1 winners over Appalachian State on Saturday, fought back. Goals by Scott Rawlins and Darryl Gomez, coupled with a complacent Wildcat team led to overtime. But Davidson’s fresh legs were the keys again. Phil Julien’s third assist of the weekend, a cross to Jeff Harrell 2:59 into the first overtime, gave the Wildcats their third and decisive goal.

“Harrell’s goal was the key,” said Slagle. “After that one went in, we all relaxed a little bit.” Davidson added two more goals, including a penalty kick by Clarke, giving the Wildcats a 5-2 victory.

The Wildcats (3-1) are coming together. Slagle continues to tinker with the line-up, but whomever the starters, they are always under a watchful eye. “With such a deep team, substitutions can be ubiquitous,” said Slagle. “The starters know they have to perform because there are lots of guys who can play lots of positions.”

This depth does create problems for Slagle. He must limit the roster to eighteen for the next weekend’s trip to Las Vegas. “Obviously some people will be upset,” said Slagle. “But that will make those guys (players who don’t make the trip) work that much harder.”Season at Blowing Rock

Deeper men’s team grabs fifth without key runners

By Will Bradshaw
Sports Editor

In a promising first race at App. St., the men’s cross country team placed fifth and showed what a luxury numbers can be. Only eight of the team’s fifteen members made the trip to Boone on Saturday, leaving harriers who had been nursing injuries behind.

“We could have run more guys, but it made no sense to,” coach Gary Andrew said. “I’m really excited and pleased with the results. The guys are training hard. We feel as soon as we get all the guys back who didn’t run today we’ll be much stronger and much more competitive.”

Josh Cookson led the Wildcats, finishing eighth (26:40), while freshmen William Isenhour (27:47, 21st) and Pat Burchett (28:12, 27th) finished second and third for the team. Cookson’s time was the second best ever by a Wildcat on that course, and Isenhour’s was tenth. Andrew was also pleased with the performance of Keith Gordon, a sophomore who struggled most of last season, but finished fourth on the team in a strong race Saturday (28:20, 31st).

“It was a really good first effort,” Cookson said. “We’re looking to come in the top five in conference. We have a really good shot if we continue to work hard and get everybody healthy. I think we’ll be able to do it.”

Rick Cratsenberg, who Andrew expects will challenge Cookson for the top spot on the team, Tripp Franklin, a three-year veteran, and two top freshmen Brent Ferrell and Victor Talbird, were among the missing runners.

“It’ll be interesting to see how it (the season) shakes out,” Andrew said. “Last year everybody healthy ran, but this season we have the luxury of numbers. We have enough guys to capably fill in when people can’t run. It’s a really good size team right now.”

Women finish seventh

By Jon Hayes
Staff Writer

The women’s cross country team faced Wake Forest, UNCC, UNC-A, Duke, App. St., and Winthrop on Saturday at the Carolina Classic in Blowing Rock, N.C. Unlike the relatively flat courses of the past, this recently constructed trail redefined rough and ragged. Led by Suzy Burr and Allie Curran, the Wildcats finished seventh, walking away with a new perspective and understanding of what they need to work on.

Coach Beth Puckett was disappointed in Saturday’s performance, but still has high expectations for the year. “The seven sophomores are much further ahead than they were last year,” she said. “Our goal is to better our performance from last year, by finishing a spot higher in conference.” This year’s conference meet takes place at Western Carolina, where the team will encounter similar terrain.

Field hockey drops opener

By Carlo Reynolds and Erin Smith
Staff Writer and Davidsonian Correspondent

Davidson suffered from first game jitters, falling, 2-1, in sudden-death overtime to Westchester College in Pennsylvania on Saturday. The Wildcats were rained out in the second game against Ursinus College on Sunday afternoon and came home early, missing a chance to iron out the first-game kinks.

“It was a rough and shaky start, but we’re prepared to get it together before facing Appalachian State next week,” said goalkeeper Sara Gebhardt, whose saves in the second half of the Westchester game helped push the game into overtime. Kate Schoening, freshman midfielder, scored the only Davidson goal early in the first half on an unassisted drive. Westchester scored with seconds left in the first half, tying the game until the end of regulation. Almost immediately after overtime began, Westchester ended the game with a goal.

“Pennsylvania is some of the toughest country for field hockey. We’ll come back and be ready for next week,” said Smith.

Football grabs win in scrimmage

By Michael Kruse
Sports Editor

In a harbinger of good things to come, Dunn Mileham's 39-yard field goal lifted Davidson to a 24-21 overtime victory over Division III Chowan College in Murfreesboro, N.C. on Aug. 31.

“I was pleased,” said head coach Tim Landis. “Chowan was a very big, physical team. I’m excited we faced a team like that. We're going to give up size, we’re going to give up depth. So we needed to experience that type of adversity.”

Landis was especially happy with the defense, which effectively ran the new Stunt 4-3 system. Defensive linemen Ben Spivey and Jay Ariail and safety Donnie Johnson stood out individually, according to the coach. Offensive tackle Scott Reeder and center Chip Stewart, quarterbacks Tommy Dugan, Clif Henry, and Matt Strader, wideouts Karim Lawrence, Dan Dearing, and Mike Harrington, and the entire backfield performed well for the offense.

"We moved the ball consistently throughout the day, but I was hoping to open it up a little more,” Landis said.

Some personnel decisions were made after the scrimmage, but many spots will be decided this week as the first game, at Maryville, approaches.