14. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1996 SPORTS DAVIDSONIAN

Three key players miss exhibition opener as team falls to Swarm

The women’s basketball team opened its season with a 70-59 exhibition loss to the Smokey Mountain Swarm, a team of former college standouts. The Wildcats, playing without several key players, were led by Carolyn Kirsch who tallied 12 points and 4 rebounds. Katy Kamp, playing her first ever collegiate game, also scored 12. Jennifer Sanborn added 10.

The Wildcats will take on Ft. Bragg in their second exhibition game on Sunday at 4:30. They open their regular season at Army on Nov. 21. Kerry and Jamie Brown both missed Saturday’s exhibition with a stress fracture and severely sprained ankle, respectively. Also out of action due to shin splints but is expected to return to practice on Wednesday. Jen Sanborn played but is battling tendinitis, Jennie Vanlerberghe has a slightly pulled hamstring, and Monica Winter has suffered a concussion.

Last year the women’s basketball team managed to break records even while battling injuries. “We never ever played a single game when everyone was 100 percent healthy,” said coach John Filar. This year’s team is talented, but according to Filar, the key will be to keep his players healthy. “Health is a big concern. That’s going to be the key,” Filar explained. “We have to be able to put all our weapons on the court at the same time. If we’re healthy, there’s not a team on our schedule we can’t play with.”

—AARON DUNHAM AND MICHAEL KRUSE

Davidson Volleyball Senior Day
November 17th
Belk Arena
1:00 p.m.
Come help us celebrate the career of Ami Bondurant in her final home match!

KIZER ROLL
Aaron Kadoch

Sophomore walk-on Nora Kizer goes in for a lay-up in Saturday’s exhibition. Davidson lost 70-59.

Crew earns respect
By JOSLYN OGDEN
Staff Writer

When Josh Peklo and Jay Hinton met on the 1993 Odyssey, they never imagined that one day they would be leading the Davidson Crew team to one of the most prestigious regattas in the United States: The Head of the Chattahoochee. The race is the largest in the Southeast and the third largest in the nation.

Four years ago, Davidson had no rowing team. Hinton and Peklo had to borrow equipment from other schools, and they struggled to convince other athletes that the 5:30 a.m. practices were rewarding. But with Hinton coaching and Peklo acting as president, the team has made great strides. “Sure, it was really frustrating at first, the college had basically no equipment nor a strong rowing tradition, but our hard work paid off and we have made it to the pinnacle of the sport,” Peklo said.

On Saturday, November 2, the Wildcats stood in Roswell, Ga., on the shore of the Chattahoochee River, cheering on the four boats that competed in the regatta. The girl’s varsity team placed in the top half of their event defeating Clemson, Florida, Rice, among others. The men’s varsity did equally well.The race was truly the highlight of the season. "I have never coxed such a good race," coxswain Ellen Rockwell commented after the men’s race. The two novice boats also defeated many schools including Vanderbilt, Sewanee, Rice, and Furman.

ARE YOU #1? WEAR YOUR DAVIDSON COLORS AND/OR LOGO & RECEIVE 4 FREE TOKENS FOR THE POOL, AIR HOCKEY, DAYTONA DRIVING, SNOW SKIING & BASKETBALL SUPERSHOT TOURNAMENTS & MANY MORE GAMES. ALL YOU CAN EAT PIZZA BUFFET. 892-5437 next to Movies at The Lake in Cornelius.

Rugby squeaks past Elon
By CLAYTON SCHLOSS
Staff Writer

The Davidson rugby team traveled to Elon College last Saturday and pulled out a 10-5 victory. It was a low-scoring affair, unlike the Wildcats’ last few contests, and defense was the key. Davidson jumped out to an early 5-0 lead when flanker Thayer Long scooped up a loose ball, broke away from the pack, and pushed the ball across the line for a try. Elon evened the score at 5-5, but the Wildcats countered when prop Mike Lassiter scored on a powerful run.

“We didn’t capitalize on many opportunities. In general, it was a sloppy game with lots of mistakes,” said Long. The team agreed that it was a less than inspired performance, but they are looking forward to next week’s season finale against UNC Charlotte. The Wildcats, in one of their biggest games of the year, square off with the 49ers this Thursday night at 7 p.m. on the field behind Baker.

Volleyball drops a pair of matches
By Drew WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The volleyball team dropped another two matches this weekend, losing to Campbell on Friday and Marshall Sunday. The Marshall contest looked bleak from the start, with the Wildcats (9-20) falling behind, 9-1. But after a Davidson timeout, the team rebounded to win the game, 15-12. But they could not hold on to the winning ways, dropping the next three games, 15-4, 15-2, 15-0. L.A. Bumgarner led the Wildcats with 10 kills and Ginny Quis led the team in assists with 17.

Semis from page 13

Davidson secured the two-goal lead to seal the semi-final berth. Despite the semifinal finish, this season was frustrating for Davidson (8-14, 4-4), marred by poor performances against non-conference powers, along with the team’s struggle to break the upper echelon of the Southern Conference - a league the Wildcats have traditionally owned.

“I made a schedule for a team that I thought could be a top 30 contender,” said Coach Charlie Slagle. “Talent-wise, I think we had it, but we never got there as a team.” Slagle notes that seven of his players were abroad for last spring’s practice season, something that may have hurt his club this season. “With that many guys gone, it may have affected us, especially early on,” he said.

With this campaign over, players and coaches are already talking about an exciting fall 1997. “We'll be back next year,” said Stroble. “We are going to have a lot of leadership and commitment to winning.”