DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS - MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1996

The finest fish in fresh water

By JOHN ROE
Outdoors Columnist

J.A. Henshall, a pioneer of American angling, once called the smallmouth bass “the gamest fish that swims.” And after many
days on the water, I agree. Pound for pound, no other fish provides a more challenging and exciting fight. The
smallmouth, a native of the streams and lakes from eastern Oklahoma to southern Quebec, thrives in some of the most
beautiful countryside. Whether found in a deep blue pool at the base of a limestone outcropping on the New River
or in a shallow riffle of a creek meandering through the wooded hills of Kentucky, smallmouth have earned their way
into the hearts of many outdoorsmen who enjoy fishing in the solitude and peacefulness of a rural landscape.

Finding a good smallmouth hole is half the fun. I have spent many hours scouring maps for obscure, little-known streams
that follow the contours of a valley. I have also spent much time in the field either hunting or backpacking,
noting any stream I run across for its smallmouth potential. One of the finest streams I have fished was found
while quail hunting on a friend’s farm. From the top of a ridge, I spotted its blue-green pools and oxygen-rich
riffles winding through a maze of sycamore and oak trees, and I promised myself I would return to fish it
that spring. Upon returning, my first cast to the still water behind a log was met by a hungry three-pound
smallmouth that took to the air four times and pushed the limits on my ultralight tackle. That afternoon, a friend
and I waded a three-mile section of the stream and enjoyed fishing under some of the most spectacular limestone bluffs
and oldest trees I have ever seen. We managed to catch a few smallmouth too.

Both traditional spinning tackle and fly rod can be used to catch smallmouth. For spinning tackle, it is tough to
beat the effectiveness of an in-line spinner or live crawdad on light line, but for the fly rod, try poppers,
terrestrials, aquatic insects (such as hellgrammites and caddisfly nymphs), and streamers. A pesky smallmouth hooked on the fly will test
any fly fisher’s skill, and maybe even cause him or her to realize that trout aren’t the only fish worthy
of praise.

A day on a smallmouth stream can be rewarding in many ways. Not only are smallmouth hard to catch, but
they are a beautiful fish that thrives in some of nature’s most fascinating places. Holding a smallmouth in hand and
seeing its brown, white, and bronze colors will make you want to return it to the cool water in which
it lives. It is important to practice catch and release on smallmouth streams, for these ecosystems are fragile. Take the
time to pick up trash along the bank, for if nothing else, you will not have to look at it
the next time you visit. Give smallmouth fishing a chance, and you might agree that the bronzeback is the finest
fish in freshwater.

Casner plays tough at ITA

By KERRY BROPHY
Staff writer

Sophomore Dana Casner made an impressive showing at the ITA National Clay Court Qualifying Rounds held Sept. 14-29 in Baltimore,
Md. These matches attracted collegiate tennis players from across the nation, each contending for a spot amongst the top 32
players in the country. Casner won her first match before falling 6-4, 2-6, 6-1 in the second round.

“It represents an outstanding opportunity following a very successful freshman year,” said head women’s tennis coach Carolene Price. Price also
contends that Casner’s performance showed her potential to be nationally competitive and looks forward to an impressive coming year. Indeed,
Casner’s achievements in the ITA National Clay Court Tournament marked a good start to the season.

“It was a great experience. I had two close matches and it was great to play in a national tournament,”
said Casner. “I saw people from all over the nation that I had never encountered before.”

Tournament finals were held yesterday. Junior Jon Pastel of the men’s team proceeded through later rounds of competition in the
event. Information on where he stands among the elite players in the nation will be known later this week.

21316 Davidson
896-0089
OPEN: Mon-Sat, 10:00am-4:00pm

Flickerball Standings through 9/23/96 — Men’s LeagueDivision 1
Team's Name Wins Losses
BOB 2 0
Cold Beer 2 0
En Fuego 1 1
Rugmunchers 1 1
KA 0 1
PIKA 0 1
Go Deep 0 1
SAE 0 2

Results:
9-8
Cold Beer 7 SAE 0
Rugmunchers 50 Go Deep 30
KA 0 Pika 0

9-15
BOB 32 Rugmunchers 22
En Fuego 53 SAE 19
Cold Beer 6 Pika 0

Division 2
Team's Name Wins Losses
The Beef Curtains 3 0
The Wookies 2 0
Worst Nightmare 1 1
Ole Ole 0 2

Results:
9-15
B.C. 19 Ole Ole 13

9-22
W.N. 19 Vinnie & Boyz 13
The Wookies 41 Ole Ole 12
B.C. 34 W.N. 31

Division 3
Team's Name Wins Losses
2nd Little 2 0
AA Fly Boys 1 0
1st Little 1 2
BBB 0 1

Field hockey splits in Ohio
By Caro REYNOLDS
Staff Writer

The Davidson field hockey team returned from a three-day road trip to Ohio having avenged last year’s loss against Ohio
U. with a 3-2 win, but they dropped the next game to Central Michigan, 5-1. Coach Betsy Pryor was eager
to prove that last year’s 8-3 loss to Ohio was not indicative of the quality of the Davidson program. Erin
Smith led the way against the Bobcats, scoring twice after Teresa Alden’s opening goal. The two teams swapped goals until
Smith, coming off a successful penalty shot by Ohio, hit a crossing shot for the game-winner. Smith scored the lone
Wildcat goal against Central Michigan and upped the team momentum after a very slow first period, but the offense could
never catch up to the halftime deficit. After splitting games in the Ohio trip, Davidson traveled to Winston-Salem to play
one of their toughest games of the season against ACC-member Wake Forest. The Deacons, ranked ninth in the nation, overpowered
the Wildcats, 5-0. “The score is not a reflection of how we played,” said Chase Keith. “The passing, the moving,
and the camaraderie were all there.” Goalkeeper Sara Gebhardt and captain Mary Dowd fortified the defense all week and tirelessly
fought the strong Wake Forest attack. Some of the younger Davidson players came off the defeat Wednesday with the valuable
experience of playing a top team. They return home Tuesday to play Radford. “Radford is a very big game,” said
Keith. “We’ve never beaten them even though we are such equally matched teams.”

Women harriers run best race yet
By JONATHAN HAYES
Staff Writer

The women’s cross country team traveled to the Greensboro Invitational this weekend. The Wildcats finished fourth overall out of thirteen
teams. The team was led by Suzy Burr, who finished an individual ninth out of more than a hundred runners.
Almost everyone improved on their times, and the gap between the top five runners was only three minutes over the
three-mile duration. “We’re really excited because the times are coming down, and the confidence is going up,” said team captain
Kelly Kiefer. “The team as a whole is coming together.” So far this year, the team has been hurt by
many injuries. Next week, the women hope to return some healthy runners for their first home meet on Saturday versus
Campbell, Winthrop, Wofford, and UNC Asheville.

Catch the Habitat Spirit!
Who: You!
What: Landscaping Day
When: Saturday, October 5, 8 a.m.-5 p.m.
Join us for all or part of the day!
Where: Habitat House
Why: We need your help! (and we'll give you a free lunch)
Come be part of the project!

OUTDOORS
Local Shops on the Green--Cornelius, NC 892-1848
Check out our new snowboard department.
AIRWALK @ CIDE
See all the new fall clothing from Patagonia & Columbia
