SPORTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1996

Kruse’s Cubby

Seniors to bid Big D adieu

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

Senior co-captain John Cowan has started all 38 football games Davidson has played since he arrived on campus in the
fall of 1993. But the 39th — this Saturday against Richardson Field at 1:30 — will be extra-special. Cowan and
11 other seniors — Jay Ariail, A.R. Barrington, Chris Currie, Kevin Graham, Dan Jonas, Dunn Mileham, Pat Montoya, Pete Perri,
Kirk Roberts, Mike Rush, and Michael Warrick — will be honored in a pre-game ceremony before making the final home
appearance of their careers.

“It’s getting harder and harder every week because I realize the end is near,” said Cowan, after Saturday’s nail-biting win
at Hampden-Sydney. “I think all the seniors do.”

And I think that, five, ten, twenty years from now, when Wildcat gridiron fans look back to a definitive turning
point for Davidson football, they will point to this class and this 1996 team.

Cowan epitomizes the rare synthesis of academic and athletic genius, the type of hybrid being over which Davidson coaches and
administrators drool. The 6-2, 235-pounder is the Wildcats’ most dominant offensive lineman and also sees limited action in key defensive
situations, where he has tallied three sacks this year. But he shines yet brighter off the field. Cowan, who worked
in hospitals in Pakistan and China last summer, is a Stuart Scholar; president of the Patterson Court Council, an honor
student in Physics and is awaiting word on a potential Rhodes scholarship sometime after Thanksgiving.

“He’s that kind of guy, that when he talks, you just stand there and listen,” said sophomore Ben Spivey, who
leads the team in sacks with four. “Everyone really looks up to him. He commands a lot of respect.”

And so do the other seniors, who came to Davidson with fourth-year head coach Tim Landis and have played an
irreplaceable role in an on-going effort to build a consistent winner here. Barrington, a co-captain linebacker, was one of the
key...

See Cubby on page 15

Rugby rucks and rolls over Blue Devils

By CLAYTON SCHLOSS
Staff Writer

The Wildcats put on a rugby clinic at Durham on Saturday, whipping Duke, 42-0. Fullback Frank Killian led the Wildcats,
scoring three tries in what was by far his biggest game of the season. He modestly credited his teammates for
his performance.

“I had a big game, but it was really because of all the other guys out there, especially (inside center)
Graham Powell,” said Killian. “They did a great job, and I was just in the right place at the right
time.”

Hooker Eric Borgstrom, wingman Christian Baker, and eight man Michael Schenck also tallied one try apiece. Fly-half Hank Ackerman did
the kicking for Davidson in place of Matt Burkhardt, who did not play for disciplinary reasons.

“Even though they had more size than us, we made up for it with skill,” said flanker Thayer Long. “It
was never really a question of whether we would win, but by how much.”

The Wildcats travel to Elon College next Saturday and host rival UNC Charlotte the following weekend in the season finale.

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

HAMPDEN-SYDNEY, VA— After launching a 50-yard field goal — the third longest in Davidson history — last week, Saturday’s game-winning
25-yard chip shot with three seconds left posed little problem for Dunn Mileham, as the senior placekicker gave the Wildcats
an electrifying 24-21 victory over Hampden-Sydney.

“I guess I’m glad it was just 25 and not 50 like last week,” said Mileham, whose brother, Scott, is
a freshman defensive back for the Tigers. “The snap was there, (quarterback and holder) Tommy (Dugan) got the ball down,
and I got the ball up and in. Things have worked out well for us this year. It was a
big game for us.”

The contest marked a tale of two halves, as Davidson (4-4) controlled the first and Hampden-Sydney (2-6) dominated most of
the second. Rookie wideout Ben Brown put the Wildcats on top, 7-0, catching a 14-yard scoring pass from Dugan with
1:29 left in the opening quarter. Tiger quarterback Walt Bondurant — Davidson senior volleyball player Ami Bondurant’s brother — knotted
the score five minutes into the second quarter, sneaking in from a yard out.

But the Wildcats ended the half with a flurry, tallying two touchdowns in the final 1:28 before intermission — a
four-yard Lorenzo Moll scamper around the left end and an 11-yard dump pass from Dugan to Eric Ferguson — to
take a commanding 14-point lead. Ferguson’s score capped a five-play, 62-yard hurry-up drive that spanned just 47 seconds.

But the Tigers snatched the...Momentum from the get-go in the second frame, converting 4-of-4 fourth down attempts on its way
to 176 yards of total offense in the last 30 minutes. Hampden-Sydney’s Michael Rhodes registered a two-yard run with 4:41
left in the third and Andy Pritchett grabbed a 6-yard touchdown toss from Bondurant, as the Wildcats and Hampden-Sydney Tigers
evened the count at 21 with ten minutes remaining. But a last-ditch march by the Wildcat offense in the game’s
final minute-and-a-half covered 64 yards on ten quick plays, setting the scene for Mileham’s heroics. Junior Eric Sapp made two
crucial catches during the decisive drive, including a 23-yarder in a third-and-ten situation. “Kids step up and make big plays,”
said head coach Tim Landis. “Eric did that today. That catch he made in the last drive, that was big-time.”

Hampden-Sydney accomplished the tough task of stopping the potent Davidson ground game, holding Moll to 43 yards and Ferguson to
28. But Dugan ignited the passing game, completing 17-of-28 passes for 226 yards and a pair of TDs. “Tommy had
a hot hand there,” added Landis. “He’s improved immensely all season long and he stepped up and had one of
his best outings.” As did linebacker Shreve Ariail, who turned in one of the great individual defensive efforts of the
year, collecting 20 tackles, a sack for 13 yards, and a fumble recovery. Lineman Ben Spivey recorded a team-second-best 11
tackles.

“The offense had two key drives (one at the end of both halves),” said co-captain John Cowan. “And we made
some key plays at the end of the game.”

Shreve Ariail, who recorded 20 tackles in this week’s thrilling win over Hampden-Sydney, takes down an Emory & Henry player
during the team's 24-17 loss on Oct. 14.

Swimmers race well at Va. Tech, women top W & M
By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

After an unscored relay meet at Emory on Oct. 19, and the intrasquad Red/Black meet on Oct. 26, the swim
team opened their regular season schedule at Virginia Tech on Saturday. “This is one of the best dual meets we’ve
had,” coach Rich DeSelm said. “By far the fastest times we’ve swam at this point since I’ve come. It was
very exciting, and the team handled it great. There was a lot of team support and good racing.”

On the women’s side, the team grabbed a 121-118 dual meet victory over William & Mary, but fell to Virginia
Tech 148-94. The men dropped close decisions to both schools, 123-108 against William & Mary and 119-112 versus Virginia Tech.
“We all pulled together and supported each other which made the difference,” co-captain of the women’s team Catherine Anderson said.
“We’ve stepped up to a new level and now we have a chance to beat teams we’ve never been competitive
with before. I think we have a very strong chance of winning Southern States. We have a great group of
freshmen girls who have added speed and strength to the team and made us extremely competitive. We’re going to surprise
a lot of teams this year.”

And you can put William & Mary at the top of that list. In a meet that was close throughout,
William & Mary seemed to take a nearly insurmountable lead by grabbing the top three spots in the 200-yard breast.
Even after taking first and third in the freestyle relay (the final event), Davidson seemingly had lost 119-118. But two
scoring errors reversed the outcome, giving Davidson the win. “We came out thinking we had lost, but the numbers (after
correcting the scoring errors) add up. Their coaches still have to agree, but we should have the win,” coach Rich
DeSelm said.

Kathleen Paffenroth had a huge day for the Wildcats, winning the 1,000 free, and 200 fly and getting touched out
by a Virginia Tech swimmer in the 500 free to finish second. Zannah Bozzone won the 200 free, placed second
in the 200 back, and swam the opening leg of the medley relay which finished second. Mary Shell Brosche took
first in the 200 Individual Medley and the 100 free, as well as swimming on both second-place relays. Because the
meet was scored as a double dual meet, Paffenroth’s and Bozzone’s second place finishes in the 500 free and 200
back were first place finishes against William & Mary.

In the men’s races, Davidson fell just short of pulling off two big upsets. “The fact that we were able
to compete as well as we did against... (See Swim on page 15)
