4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1996

Pyne begins as Special Events Manager

NARESH NAGELLA
Assistant News Editor

Helene Pyne, the college’s new Special Events Manager, will now be coordinating events ranging from Board of Trustees’ meetings, Scholarship Weekends, and Spring Convocation. She earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in sociology from Holy Cross College in 1988, and then worked at ABC Sports as assistant to the producer for PGA/Wide World of Sports. She then moved to Atlanta where she worked with a private company, among whose clients were CNN, Nike, NASCAR, and Ford.

“(My job) entails total event coordination — I oversee transportation, catering, tickets, and design,” says Pyne. She lends her expertise to the “creative aspect” of the events and stays at each event until completion, “to make sure everything goes through as planned.”

Pyne wants to build on Davidson’s national reputation. “Having just finished a successful fundraising campaign,” she says, “this college is surely no stranger to high-quality events. I look forward to continuing that tradition of excellence.”

The Davidsonian is looking for enthusiastic people to assist with photography. We can train you. Call John or Mary Clare, -2148

WORK IN DAVIDSON THIS SUMMER

SUMMER EMPLOYMENT IN PHYSICAL PLANT

THE PHYSICAL PLANT IS NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR SUMMER WORKERS. POSITIONS AVAILABLE IN GROUNDS, PAINTING, ZONE MAINTENANCE, BUILDING SERVICES, MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL SHOPS. INTERESTED STUDENTS SHOULD CONTACT IRVIN BRAWLEY IN JACKSON COURT #10, EXT. 2119 OR SYLVIA MCDANIEL IN JACKSON COURT #9, EXT. 2220. APPLICATION DEADLINE—APRIL 15, 1996

GRADUATE SCHOOL?

Invest now in a plan that will allow you to graduate debt-free without sacrificing your study time. 892-8456 Ask for Mollie.

Village Travel says they will never use some discount travel companies again.

By CATHERINE ANDERSON
News Editor

While most Davidson students returned to class Monday morning after Spring Break, several students were stuck in their vacation spot after buying into low-cost travel programs for the week. A group of Davidson students experienced problems with their “all-inclusive” trip to Cancun through a discount travel company. The day before their departure, Dave Christopherson and eight others were told that their package was no longer all-inclusive and that they could neither cancel nor receive refunds for the trip.

“We've written a lot of letters and made a lot of phone calls, and we’re prepared to sue,” says Christopherson.

Senior Rob Kosicki and four friends ventured to the Bahamas with Take a Break Student Travel, the company they used last year without problems, but this past week had difficulties leaving.

“Our flight was supposed to leave at 1 p.m. Sunday but was delayed. At 7 p.m. that night the plane finally came in, but when the plane pulled in the flight attendants hopped off and caught a commercial flight home,” says Kosicki. The group was forced to stay in the airport that night waiting for a new flight crew to arrive, who skipped town as well upon their arrival in Nassau.

Many students felt compelled to purchase tickets on more reputable airlines to ensure their departure, since the program chartered their own flights.

“Take a Break seems to be a fly-by-night travel agency that is in the business to make a quick buck. It’s unfortunate that we got caught in the middle of it,” says Aubrey Proud. “They were very unprofessional, and when we needed their help in finding some answers they were nowhere to be found.”

Take a Break refused to comment and hung up the phone when The Davidsonian called to inquire about the problems students had.

Shondell Laclairof Village Travel coordinated the programs for the students. “I was very surprised [with the problems students had]. I feel really bad for the students. We’ve used these companies for the past few years, but I advised them that the programs were cheap packages and not to expect much.” Kristen Richardson, who was a part of another group traveling to Nassau, says, “Not only did Ms. Laclair neglect to tell us about previous problems, but she also assured us that the travel insurance offered by the company was unnecessary.” Village Travel only works with the companies over spring break but plans to discontinue use in the future. “It’s just too much of a headache,” says Laclair. “Be wary of all these packages,” Christopherson says, “it seems like there are a lot of scams out there.” If anyone falls prey to the clutches of discount programs gone bad, Christopherson advises students to “raise hell and threaten to sue.”

Women’s Study from page 1

have been seen in recent years. Since 1990-91, the percentage of tenured female faculty has nearly doubled, rising from 10% of total tenured faculty in 1990-91 to 19.6% in 1995-96.

Women In Athletics: In 1991-92, 32% of Davidson athletes were women; yet only 15% of that year’s total recruiting budget was allocated to women’s athletics. However, strides have been taken to balance such disproportionate athletic budget allocations, as evidenced in the spending of athletic scholarships in 1994-95. In that year, 51% of all athletic scholarships were awarded to male athletes while 49% went to female athletes.

Women In Administrative and Leadership Roles: As stated in the Self-Study document, while “female representation at different administrative and academic levels has slowly increased since 1985... Women students at Davidson are still seriously concerned with the lack of female role models in positions of authority.” Since 1985, women have held positions as Associate Dean of Students, Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid, as well as the position of co-editor of the Davidsonian and Union Board President.

Courses On Gender Relations and Women’s Issues: Over 20 courses are offered concerning women and gender relations. Courses such as Women In American History, Women Writers, and Feminist Thought, Sex, Technology, and Morality as well as the Concentration in Gender Studies are evidence of the study of women and gender across the curriculum.

Women’s Health Services: A number of female counselors, health educators, and physician assistants are available to students through Student Health Services and the Counseling Center. In addition, “the Counseling Center has expanded its scope,” and now deals with such issues as eating disorders, sexual harassment, and acquaintance rape. Despite these options, the Study states its findings that “women students would like to have additional counselors and health educators, as well as more educational programs concerning such topics as human sexuality, AIDS, acquaintance rape, sexual harassment, eating disorders, stress, and alcohol abuse.”

Women’s Safety Concerns: The study found that “Confidential reports to counselors and female faculty” suggest that cases of acquaintance rape are underreported. In addition, “sexual assault and battery are serious issues of concern for Davidson College.” The Study recognized that these issues are of great concern for many American universities and colleges at this time.

Sexual Harassment: While 45% of women believe that sexual harassment is present at Patterson Court, only 15% of fraternity members agreed. “Women students,” states the Study, “are not convinced that Davidson College takes seriously allegations of sexual harassment.” However, in an effort to reduce the problem of harassment, the Code of Responsibility has been revised to address sexual harassment.