14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Fishing season doesn’t end in winter
By JOHN ROE
Outdoors Columnist

It looks as if we might get our first taste of winter this week. No, there is no snow expected, and temperatures aren’t supposed to drop below 34 degrees, but our first front bringing frigid northern air is sweeping our direction. Although no ponds will freeze, the fish will sense the temperature change and head for deeper water, ending the fishing season for most anglers. Rods will be tucked away in a corner of the garage, tackle boxes put on the shelf to collect dust, and thoughts of a warm, far-off spring will be as close as many get to fishing until the seasons change again.

I, however, cannot part from my fishing rod for such long periods of time. I admit, I do not get out quite as often from November to March, and when I do, sometimes I wish I hadn’t. There is nothing like a bitter wind on wet hands to send one whimpering back to the fireplace. But every now and then a trip to the water will pay off.

To take advantage of cold weather fishing opportunities, two things must be understood. First, the weather, like all aspects of nature, changes. There might be two weeks of bitter cold, mixed with a bit of snow and ice, but sooner or later there will be a patch of warmer air and sunshine. These times can be a fishing oasis in an otherwise grey and dreary winter. I recall one warm day sandwiched between weeks of below-freezing weather that provided some of the best fishing I have ever experienced. I was fishing in a feeder creek of the Red River in Tennessee. The warm sunshine heated a shallow water pool, bringing white bass and largemouth from their winter lethargy to a frenzied feed. One after another fish would boil to the surface to devour my minnow imitation until the sun ducked under the horizon.

The second thing to remember in the cold months is cold weather slows the fish’s metabolism, resulting in occasional feeding as opposed to the constant feeding of spring and summer. Fish, not wanting to expend valuable energy in search of food, may go days at a time without eating. When they do eat, fish prefer a larger package, such as a big shad or sunfish, to supply the most nutrients for the least energy exertion. Fish must be extremely efficient in cold water, for any lost energy takes away from the fat that insulates them from the cold water. Your fishing tactics should include slow presentations, large lures, and most of all, patience. Creeping a “jig n’ pig” over rocks or stumps at depths of 25 to 30 feet has become a favorite method of many big fish seekers in the winter. Some of the largest fish in the record books have been caught by this method in temperatures below 40 degrees.

Some anglers do not believe fishing season ever ends, for fish must eat year-round. As long as fish are eating, there is a way to catch them. But catching fish in the cold months of the year requires an understanding of their change in behavior and an eye on the changing weather.

Women’s soccer wins 2 of 3
By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

GREENVILLE, SC — After wrapping up the regular season conference title and the top seed for the conference tournament (Nov. 9-10 at Davidson) with Tuesday’s 3-0 victory over App. St. in Boone, the women’s soccer team dropped a disappointing 1-0 decision at Furman on Saturday afternoon. Finishing hurt the Wildcats again, as they outshot the Paladins 11-6 and forced Paladin keeper Jen McNutt to make six saves, but they were unable to convert their opportunities into goals.

“It’s a matter of pride against Furman,” Melissa Moser said after the loss. “This was a game that personally I wanted to win, I’m really disappointed with the loss.”

On Sunday, the Wildcats thumped UT-Chattanooga, 6-0 to close out their regular season. They head into the conference tournament with a 9-10-1 mark, 7-1 in conference.

Exit 28 off I-77, Cornelius
Norman Crossing Shopping Center
We Could All Use A Little More

SPORTS: MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1996

Team preps for conference
Dominating defense spearheaded by Melissa Moser looks to smother their opponents this weekend
By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

The influx of many talented freshmen allowed coach Kevin Hundley to return senior tri-captain Melissa Moser to the defense after she played midfield last season. Moser has responded by virtually shutting down the opposition’s top scorer all year.

“I feel more comfortable with it (marking back),” Moser said. “I understand that’s probably what’s best for the team and probably what I do best. I liked going forward more, but the best place to put me was what I was better at.”

Moser said she spent her freshman year as a utility player, stepping in at forward, midfield, and marking back. But, in the spring ofHer freshman year she started playing well defensively. She had a successful sophomore season as a defender, but last year Hundley moved her into the midfield. This season, the addition of players like Kelly Rennick (a freshman who has started every game at center midfield) gave Hundley the freedom to move Moser back to defense. “When I played sweeper, I felt confident knowing people weren't going to get by her,” Amy Balsinger, a forward who played the first three games at sweeper, said. “She’s a great player, and she usually marks the best forward. Every game she shuts them down.”

“Her role is to take the best forward and neutralize her, she’s done that, and that’s a real tribute to her. It’s not a glamorous job,” Hundley said. “She’s as good a marking back as you’ll find. It’s not a noticeable thing, but you can watch how far back (the player she’s marking) comes to get the ball. If you can push the front players into the midfield it’s tough to score. Melissa is able to focus on marking a player out, whether she’s physical, fast, whatever. And not just Southern conference players, but she’s done it against the ACC and SEC. For us to win we’ve got to keep the ball out of the goal.”

But Moser has not been alone. On a team that has defined itself with defense she is only one of many stars. “The combo of her and Allie (Noznesky, the starting goalkeeper), and the emergence of Katharine (Cornelius) at sweeper has been really pleasing to see,” Hundley continued. “That’s really been the highlight of this year. You add Natasha (Vasavada) in, who has been consistently strong, and Angie (Boyer), who has really rounded out the backs so we can interchange people.”

Noznesky has allowed eight goals in the last 13 games, only four in regulation time, and the defense as a whole has surrendered only 12 goals in those games, seven in regulation. “I’m not sure when it was, but after the first couple games we realized that communication was the key to everything in the back,” Moser said. “Katherine stepped in and became more vocal. Now we’re doing a much better job of backing people up. Against Furman, we were doing a good job of playing little short balls out of the back and knocking the ball around. That just shows how we have more composure.”

Cornelius has also watched the team gel defensively in the second half of the season. “We’re finally down into a rhythm. Now, one person goes, and somebody else drops back. We talk more on the field, and we know what the other players are doing,” she said.

This weekend, the Wildcats and their terminator defense will take on all-comers in the conference tournament to be played on the women’s field behind Apartment F. They will face the winner of App. St. vs. UT-Chattanooga in the first semifinal on Saturday at noon. If they win that game, they will take on the winner of Georgia Southern and Furman in the finals at 2:00 on Sunday. “I really want to win this tournament so badly, and I want to play Furman and finish the last game of my career with a win against them. That’s how I want to end it,” Moser said.

Senior Kelly Ammann fights for possession with a Georgia Southern player in the 3-1 Davidson win on Oct. 26. A starter from day one, Ammann finishes her career this weekend, as the team tries to claim a third-straight conference tournament title.

Field Hockey Deep-Sixed at Deep South
By Caro Reynolds
Staff Writer

Field Hockey ended a season plagued by injuries on Sunday at the Deep South field hockey championship in Salisbury, N.C., losing the tournament for the first time in seven years. Wildcat rival App. St. took the crown. With many star upperclassmen and talented young players, coach Betsy Pryor and her team had anticipated a record-setting season. But one after another, key performers were driven to the sidelines with injuries. The crippling trend began with captain Mandy Neidert’s stress fracture early in the season and continued with Mary Dowd’s torn knee ligament. Then, Chase Keith, who was struck in the head with a ball in the last regular season game, had to sit out the tournament.

The starting lineup against the Mountaineers and Catawba this weekend looked very different from the squad that defeated both teams earlier in the season. On Friday, Catawba beat Davidson in overtime, 4-3, and on Sunday App. St. finished the round-robin with a 3-0 win over the Wildcats. “We had to fight all odds,” said Erin Smith of the end-of-season games. “We did play well.” Smith finished as the season’s leading scorer. Three Davidson players, Kim Ceci, Lindsey Parker, and Sarah Gebhardt, were recognized on the all-tournament team. With such a young roster, the Wildcats return next season with almost all of the same talent minus captains Neidert and Dowd.