THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 1996

The Gullan Administration: in retrospect

Senators praise his “action” and “visibility”; president says he is “weary”

By Adam Hickey
Staff Writer

A year ago, Bill Gullan upset Alison Sabel in an election that took many people by surprise. His victory showed
that students at Davidson were aiming for change, action, and a sense of humor. Gullan will preside at his last
meeting Tuesday, January 30. Reflecting on his term as president led many Senators to agree that his term has produced
many positive results.

“The greatest feature of Bill’s presidency to me has been action,” says Mary Laura Moretz, a Rusk Senator. “And he
has demanded the same action-oriented dedication from the rest of the SGA.”

Perhaps the most action has arisen from the institution of three new Student Advisory Councils, one each to the Directors
of Residence Life, Public Safety, and Auxiliary Services. Before this term, no formal liaison existed between those three offices and
student government. By instituting these councils, Gullan fulfilled one of his campaign promises.

“The institution of Student Advisory Committees has been Bill’s greatest contribution to Davidson, and it is one we will truly
utilize forever,” says Allison Sabel, Senior Class Senator.

The SACs were not the only changes the SGA saw. Gullan promoted several town meetings in an effort to promote
communication between students, senators, and faculty on issues such as campus beautification and minors.

Warren Buford, SGA Vice President, listed a total of 22 significant accomplishments of the Gullan administration. He includes the fourth
copy machine purchased by the library, the institution of a recycling program on Patterson Court, the Davidson City Council-Mayoral Candidates
Forum (held in October), and reforms at the Student Health Center.

Most of the other listed accomplishments deal with internal committee reports and proposals. Several new committees, both ad-hoc and permanent,
were formed. To examine campus issues, the SGA created the Beautification and Drunk Driving Committees. To improve SGA-student relations, they
created the Communications and Polling and Response Committees.

Supporters also congratulate Gullan and the Senate as a whole for increasing visibility on campus. “It doesn’t seem quite so
elitist and removed from the rest of the student body,” says Warner Hall Senator Stephanie Morgan.

In addressing Gullan’s leadership style, many Senators commented on his personality. Junior Class Senator Saad Gul comments on his “strong
beliefs,” while Sara Beth Hamlin, another junior class senator, remarks on his tendency to be “up front about his opinions.”

Gullan was not without critics when he began his term. Hamlin calls herself “initially a bit skeptical of Bill’s leadership
techniques.” Sabel goes so far as to say, “When Bill first took over as President, I was very worried about
student rights on this campus. His laissez-faire ruling made it seem as if we would get nothing done.” Independent Senator
Yanti Ardie had a “preconceived notion” of Gullan that was not positive. All three Senators agreed that their opinions changed
over the course of the term.

This is not to say that Gullan remains without critics. Sabel notes, “We will spend over half an hour on
worthless topics—I mean worthless in the sense that people are repeating each other on their comments.” Supporters counter that such
freedom to respond in meetings is necessary. “I would suggest this is a positive. He wanted as many people as
possible to give comments and encouraged any opinion,” says Buford.

Gullan himself smiled when discussing critics. He states, “I care a lot about public support and acceptance.” Asked after his
penultimate meeting if he were at all sentimental, he firmly responds, “No, not at all.” “Weary” is the word he
uses to describe himself after a term in office that he calls “positive” in its results. “[I’m not weary of]
the Senate or the people,” he...is quick to add, “but there’s a lot of stuff that goes along with the
job. The committees, the meetings, and the expectations. People call me if their light bulb doesn’t work, but it comes
with the territory. I have enjoyed it immensely.”

Gullan agrees that the SACs were the most positive reform of this term, mostly because of the changes that came
from them. “What they have done—and what they have the ability to do... break with the organizational structure of the
past.”

“I think the SGA did a lot more than it ever did in the past. I think the SGA gained
respect in the eyes of the students. We were on people's lips more than ever before.” But he does not
take the credit. “Who’s to say that’s me? Probably isn’t.”

He was disappointed about the failure of minors, but states that the SGA went through all the proper channels. From
the Council on Academic Affairs to a town meeting to the faculty meeting, “That is exactly the way it’s supposed
to go,” he says. “My accomplishments are what people agree to, my failures are what people don’t... There’s no such
thing as student government. It’s a misnomer. It’s student advising,” he says, with some irritation. His greatest frustration has been
that lack of power.

When he attended a regional leadership conference, he was surprised at the options available to other SGAs and their presidents.
“I can’t say I blame [the Trustees]. It’s their job to change the policies we want to change. They’re willing
to listen and... to act on what they’re willing to act on.”

Asked what he feels the next administration’s most urgent need is, he paused and stated simply, “I’d just as soon
leave that to them.”

Standing in the doorway of the SGA’s office, smoking a cigarette, with his gavel resting on the desk to his
right, Gullan offered his last words to the student body: “Place your trust in your leaders, hold them to a
high standard, be vigilant in making sure they do their job, because together, we can move mountains.”

Between 11/30/95 and 12/01/95: a bicycle valued at $350 was stolen from a first Akers resident.

12/07/95, 12:29 pm: Two white females were discovered soliciting perfume on first Cannon. They were charged with first degree trespass
and transported to the Mecklenburg County Intake Center.

12/12/95, 3:03 pm: Three non-residents were found soliciting perfume in Little dorm. Both offenders were arrested for first degree trespassing.

12/20/95, 11:26 pm: The push bar on the west side front door of Irwin was discovered to be broken off
from the door, making it impossible to lock.

Between 9/08/95 and 1/15/95: Several items were stolen from the student storage room in Johnston Gym.

Double Honey On The Inside
Honey On The Outside
Glazed with honey and spices

HONEY GLAZED AND SPIRAL SLICED HICKORY HAM

Hickory Hams was RATED BEST in Flavor, Texture, Appearance and Taste in an independent taste test conducted by the Atlanta
Journal Constitution. Published March 21, 1991.

Buy 1 Sandwich
Get 1 Sandwich* FREE!
*Of Equal or Lesser Value. Not Good With Other Offers.

Double Sandwich!
Get 1 Double Sandwich! FREE!
On Any Sandwich! Not Good With Other Offers. EXP. 4/30/4u.

LAKE NORMAN - CORNELIUS
Southlake Shopping Center
I-77 at Highway 73 (Exit 28)
(Near Harris Teeter and Roses)
Phone 892-9592
Fax 892-9593

Double Meat
