12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1996

Jay Hupson
Staff Writer

Upon strolling into Davidson’s 900 Room casino last Saturday night, images of Marlon Brando playing Sky Masterson in the musical Guys and Dolls and singing "Luck be a Lady Tonight" came to mind. Although there were not any singing or dancing mobsters, the 900 Room proved to be much classier and cleaner than Nathan Detroit’s sewer casino. Upon receiving my stipend of 100 casino chips as I walked in the door, I hoped that some of Sky Masterson’s luck would rub off on me for the evening.

Casino night was the final event in Davidson College’s Solidarity Week. I cannot imagine any other event that would bring the campus together more than a gambling casino. Fortunately, the chips were free and no one actually had to spend any money.

Among the more interesting and eccentric events that took place in the casino were a faculty lounge lizard, as well as a belly dancer. Dr. Palmer of the psychology department tickled the ivories while singing typical lounge tunes in a lush baritone voice. Later on in the evening, a belly dancer performed around the room. I learned afterward that it was one of the college librarians. These two faculty members formed only part of the faculty and student contingent. Palmer and the belly dancing librarian revealed only a couple of the faculty’s hidden talents. In fact, upon being skunked at the blackjack table, I realized that one of these hidden talents was card sharking, or at least that is how it appeared to me after losing many chips. For most of the evening, I played craps under the masterful dealing of Dr. Swallow.

Instead of losing my entire cache of chips, as I imagined I would, I managed to win quite a large amount. I quintupled my original amount of chips and ended up with 500 chips.

In fact, judging by the bids at the auction following the gambling festivities, I possessed the second largest amount of chips in the room, only surpassed by my gambling partner who had 550. By the end of the auction, I won a stuffed animal named Benjamin Bunny. My gambling partner wound up with a free oil change as well as $15 worth of ice cream.

Sharing the Planet

Rap on Race calls for universal understanding

By Emily Smith
Staff Writer

“Open your minds and be prepared to think,” said Marcus Williams, setting the stage for Wednesday night’s presentation of “Rap on Race” in the 900 Room. As part of Solidarity Week, the twelve-episode program incorporated selections from Alice Walker and Margaret Mead as well as an excerpt from Boyz in the Hood. Original dramatizations were performed by Davidson’s Rosie Molinary and Marcus Williams.

The cast explored stereotypes and issues often associated with members of different ethnic groups through dialogue, poetry, and rap. Director Rosie Molinary commented, “In dealing with the issues, we find that there is no clear answer, no straight path out; thus we are left with complexity, confusion, and hate.” The cast presented struggles in sorting out the complex feelings of fear and anger by focusing on discrepancies. However, they emphasized the need for understanding and open-mindedness if such fears are to be overcome.

Perhaps the analogy of one episode, comparing two separate families whose roots had become intertwined, reflects a recurrent image the cast sought to portray. They were often faced with the dilemma of discovering their own unique “roots,” yet trying to respect and appreciate others. The episodes revealed many of the misconceptions that arise in day-to-day life, as well as the frustrations opinions can catalyze.

Despite the small turnout, “Rap on Race” provided a medium for communication of ideas. After the program, the audience was invited to join the cast in discussing the presentation or any other concerns they had.

As Amy Jones said in one of the episodes, “The plan is to share the planet, rather than divide it.”

At the Clubs

— Music in two hours or less —

Compiled by Will Foy
* This means good stuff

Monday, Feb. 19
Cat’s Cradle (Raleigh): Hum w/ Mercury Rev

Tuesday, Feb. 20
Be Here Now (Asheville): John McLaughlin
Ziggy’s (Winston-Salem): Life in General

Wednesday, Feb. 21
Cat’s Cradle (Raleigh): Solution A.D. w/ The Drag
Jack Straw’s: Dixie Power Trio
Ziggy’s (Winston-Salem): Gibb Droll* w/ Emma Gibbs & The Gingerbread Men

Thursday, Feb. 22
Cat’s Cradle (Raleigh): Everything w/ Athenaeum* (an all-time Davidson fav)
Jack Straw’s: Other People* (Davidson’s own Cito Giulini!)
Tremont: Hobex w/ Mary Sunshine
Jack Straw’s: Knocked Down Smilin’* w/ The Empty’s (triangle funk w/ DC horn & guitar)

Friday, Feb. 23
Amos’s: Bus Stop
Cat’s Cradle (Raleigh): Drivin’ n’ Cryin’*
Jack Straw’s: Hypnotic Clambake (zydeco w/ a kick)
Tremont: Iodine w/ Stellar
Ziggy’s: Urge w/ Egypt (Egypt’s new drummer great performer!)

Saturday, Feb. 24
Amos’s: Curiosity Shop
Cat’s Cradle (Raleigh): Trans Am, Joby’s Opinion, Tractor Hips
Jack Straw’s: Flyin’ Mice* (blues rock)
Milestone: Mysterion* (Davidson soph. Matt Staton!)
Ziggy’s (Winston-Salem): Eddie from Ohio* w/ Craven Melon

Sunday, Feb. 25
Amos’s: Cry Uncle
Cat’s Cradle (Raleigh): Jawbreaker w/ Engine 88

CONGRATULATIONS WALT-AM!

Good Luck From Classical 89.9 WOALV.

Live a Little! Write for Arts & Living. Call James or Towles at x-2148

Mexico/Caribbean $189 RT, Europe $169 OW & Domestic Destinations Cheap!!

IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE PRICES, START YOUR OWN DAMN AIRLINE.

AirTech, Ltd, 212/219/7000, info@serotech.com