12

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1996

Renee Hicks: Bald Ambition Tour.

Renee Hicks: Bald ambition floors the 900 Room...

Comedian Renee Hicks keeps students laughing with her wit and humor

By VIC BRAND & MIKE MIGA
Guest Writers

Renee Hicks is not bald. She is not funny looking in the least (as all the fliers suggested). Okay, that was a bit of a letdown. But there are some who call her... funny? Yes, yes! She WAS funny!

Renee Hicks, the mahogany-American comedienne, (ooh that sounds nice!) who stood up for two and a half hours (give or take an hour) and told jokes last Saturday night, was, uhh, pretty good. Her flights of improvisation blended well with her bawdy, prepared material and gave the evening a feeling of spontaneity.

For instance, while discussing the way-out names our fellow mahogany-American female counterparts give to their offspring, she had only to ask Ms. Good’s first name to prove her point. Next time your Commons’ meal tastes bland, Hicks advises throwing in a pinch of Nurica. We agree!

And her insights into college life were harsh, if not entirely truthful and painfully funny (would anyone disagree that “frat” doesn’t stand for “Fellows Reeks of Alcohol and Testosterone”? We cannot find fault in this!).

Her atypically long performance was appreciated by all in attendance, since there was not a lot else to do in Davidson, as Hicks reminded us throughout the evening. How ironic then that she provided us with such wonderful entertainment.

Confessions from the H.O.R.D.E.

Rusted Root, Lenny Kravitz, Blues Traveler convene in Blockbuster Pavilion

By MARY CLAIRE JALONICK
Executive Editor

I must confess — I enjoyed the H.O.R.D.E.

Amongst the wanna-be (fill in the blank) Dead-follower-grunge fadeout-hippie-stoner-teenybopper really-cool-13-year-old crowd, I enjoyed the music. An eclectic mix, the three groups on the main stage at Blockbuster Pavilion — Rusted Root, Lenny Kravitz, and Blues Traveler — gave the crowd enough variety to stave off the usual all-day concert burnout.

I had been to the H.O.R.D.E. in Dallas this July, and the Charlotte concert proved to be much better. Dave Matthews (who did not play in Charlotte) had played excellently, but the Dallas concert was held on a drag racing track — need I say more? It was also about 105 Fahrenheit, hot enough for Kravitz to begin the opening chords of “Love” and then stumble off the stage in a sweat-induced delirium.

Thus, my appreciation for the cooler night at Blockbuster Pavilion, not normally a standout venue but appropriate for the occasion. The grass was perfect for lounging and chatting as the concert played on, and the concession area was big enough to purchase a gyro, falafel, pork (“the other white meat”) skewer, BoJangles seasoned fries (big hit with our group), or beer without standing in line.

To the point: Rusted Root was good, basically playing the album as is and forcing us to all confess that, yes, we really did just want to hear “Send me on my way,” and that other song that all of us knew. No one really got up and danced, but it was fun anyway.

I have seen Lenny Kravitz three times in the last year, and I believe that he is one of the best concert performers out there. His sexy, on-stage hair thrashing is not monotonous but entertaining — adding to the screaming, whining, sensual affair that he has with the audience.

His performance Thursday was no exception — even though we could only see him as a dot in the distance, we were up and dancing as he rocked the night away with old favorites. He got through “Love” this time, and went on to end with “Are You Gonna Go My Way.” Fabulous.

Blues Traveler does not play radio at their concerts. They do long sets with previously familiar tunes, giving their music a fresh sound. John Popper expels so much air playing serious harmonica that one expects him to keel over — even watching him on the big screen takes effort. But the harmonica sessions often seem drowned out by the excessive use of guitar in the extended sets, causing me to lose interest after a while. They were good, but when they left the stage I wasn’t screaming for an encore.

The second stage also hosted some fun bands, most notably Taj Mahal. Their acid-jazz sound was a crowd pleaser and a good introduction to the afternoon.

H.O.R.D.E. was cheesy but fun, tiring but interesting. I wouldn’t be surprised if these superconcerts (founded by Lollapalooza) don’t fade out soon — it seems like all of the novelty has been extracted by the “been there, done that” mentality (tattoos, piercings, etc.) — even by the teenyboppers. But whatever your statement, your purpose, your hair color — it was a fun evening.

At the Clubs

— Music in two hours or less —
COMPILED BY CLAY COFER

Monday, Sept. 2
Double Door: Charlotte Blues Society w/ Crawlin’ Kingsnakes
Tuesday, Sept. 3
Pterodactyl: 80’s Dance Night
Comedy Zone: Black Comedy Jam
Amos’: Bill Hanna & Ziad
Coyote Joe’s (country): Vic Rorrer & The No Name Band
Ziggy’s (Winston Salem): Underfoot
Wednesday, Sept. 4
Double Door: Big Al and Jolt Wagon
Thursday, Sept. 5
Double Door: Don Dixon, Jamie Hoover, and Jim Brock
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance
Ziggy’s (Winston Salem): Vertical Horizon
Friday, Sept. 6
Double Door: Hobex and The Swells
Baha: Rave Night
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance
Tremont: Squirrel Nut Zippers
Ziggy’s: Vertical Horizon
Saturday, Sept. 7
Double Door: Mundahs
Comedy Zone: James Gregory
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance
Sunday, Sept. 8
Double Door: Open Stage performances
Comedy Zone: James Gregory
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Free dance lessons at 8:30pm (Salsa & Merengue!)

Smile.

You’re at Davidson.
(smell the sarcasm)