THE DAVIDSONIAN

_NEWS

MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 1996 3

HABITAT FOR HUMANITY

Just in case any of you have been wondering what happened to the excitement that was building last semester about
the Wildcat Habitat project, get ready because it's just the beginning. To date, we have raised $25,002. Even though the
goal is in sight, we still have the last leg of the fundraising effort to go.

Some of the fundraising efforts that will be taking place this semester are the continuation of the Hammerhead campaign, the
selling of t-shirts, and a Battle of the Bands. If you have any ideas for fundraisers or would like to
be a Hammerhead, please contact Amy Hawfield (6636), Kurt Holmes (2188), Magdalena Maiz-Pena (2245), or JD Dupuy (6646).

The site for the house has been chosen: 537 West Side Terrace, Davidson. The ground has been too wet for
the foundation to be laid, but with the right conditions this week, building can begin on January 27. Building days
for the semester will be on Thursdays 12-5 p.m. and Saturdays 8-12 a.m. and 12-5 p.m. If you are interested
in helping with the building of the house, look for volunteer forms in the Union or in the Library.

Brian Andrews of International Kitchen and Bath has offered free installation and delivery of all the cabinets in the house.
Andrews read about the project in the Mecklenburg Gazette and decided to help. He says he is supportive of the
community and hopes this project will bring together the community and the college. Andrews is also letting us buy the
cabinets at the manufacturer charge, which will help us with the overall cost of the house. The estimated cost of
these cabinets is $800.

To anyone who has been abroad or would like more information on ways to be involved in this project, please
contact Smita Donthamsetty (6730) or Catherine Turner (2460).

-by Smita Donthamsetty

Little Habitat House.

Courtesy of Habitat for Humanity

Chess

from page 2

New York loomed nearer. Refusing to give up the match, Benn finally secured a victory with no time to spare.
Teammates handed him his coat and suitcase as he sprinted to a waiting taxi.

With a tournament record of 5-0-1, Ballard shared a first-place individual ranking among “first players” with a Russian-born grandmaster from
New York.

A competitor in ranked competitions for the past eight years, Ballard won the U.S. Junior Open Championship in the under
17 division in 1990.

Thomas, Benn, and Gospodnetic all have high school chess team experience.

Davidson’s representatives at the Pan-American Championships were selected from among 17 participants in Davidson’s campus-wide championships held in November.

The team has high expectations and many plans for the future of Davidson chess. Members are interested in organizing a
regional league to increase opportunities for competition.

Ballard, founder of the chess club, explains that the club meets every Thursday in the Union Conference Room at 9:30
p.m.

WALT back on the air

- By Mary Clare JALONICK

Guest Writer

After several years of planning, WALT will finally broadcast to the masses of Davidson, North Carolina starting next week.

The station will feature programming 6 a.m.-2 a.m., seven days a week. According to Churchill Hooff, station manager, WALT will
consist of “college-type broadcasting ... we will play music that students at Davidson don’t get on Charlotte stations.”

Several students will host the shows, which will range from jazz to 80s music. A phone line has been connected
to the studio, which is in basement Belk.

The station has become a reality after years of hard work. Hooff has been working on resurrecting the station, which
has not broadcast in at least 10 years, since his freshman year.

After working with several different committees, WALT received a charter from the Union and the Activities Tax Council. “We were
lucky to get the money we asked for.”

The station operated for about two weeks at the end of last semester, and will air practice broadcasts this week.

895-1033

Sitting in your room wondering what to do with that Michael Bolton CD your aunt gave you for Christmas? Well,
we certainly don't want it. But we do buy CDs (just not swill like that). And we have lots of
new CDs. And we do special orders. And we're a Ticketmaster outlet. And blather, blather, blather, on and on and
on.....

UPCOMING RELEASES:

Tuesday JANuary 23 ... TORI AMOS - Boys for Pele
STABBING WESTWARD - Wither, Blister, Burn, and Peel
VARIOUS - Radio Odyssey: WRAS 88.5 Previously unreleased live on-air tracks by Toadies, G. Love, Spearhead, Throwing Muses, Weapons of
Choice and others.
GIANT SAND - Backyard Barbeque (Live)

Tuesday JANuary 30 ... MINISTRY - Filth Pig

valid thru 2/29/96

$2.00 off any full-length CD or cassette
