SPORTS | MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1996

I’m still proud
By David Mortlock
Staff Writer

Bring on UMass. But why stop there? Bring on UConn. Bring on Georgetown. Bring on anybody. Why not? We won 19 games in a row, thrashing opponents on their home courts by 40 or 50 points. We had a defense almost as famous as UNLV’s amoeba defense of the early ’90s, and a solid team-oriented offense that complemented the ability of each player. We had a Christian Laettner in Harwood, a Bobby Hurley in Alpert, and a Grant Hill in Ozone. It was a team that looked and played very much like the Duke team that upset the Running Rebels on their way to the national title.

But I wasn’t asking for our team to knock off a UNLV. All I wanted was for them to beat Western Carolina. I didn’t need a 40 or 50 point blowout, a 2 point nail biter would have been just as good. I wanted our players to climb the ladder, scissors in hand to cut down the nets, knowing that the NCAA tournament was theirs to play. I also wanted to see “Davidson” written on millions of tournament brackets across the country. I wanted to go to next year’s game against N.C. State and bring a sign that read “WE WENT TO THE DANCE, WHERE WERE YOU?” and not “I GOT A 700 TOO ... IN MATH.” I wanted to get respect not just for my school’s academic greatness but for our athletic superiority as well.

It just wasn’t meant to be. Even though Dick Vitale pleaded to the selection committee over the television airwaves to let Davidson into the tournament, our fate had been sealed from the minute the buzzer sounded at the end of that fateful game. Still, I watched last Saturday with 30 other guys in the basement of Sig Ep as ESPN flashed the NCAA teams onto the screen. When fate had left us out, I felt myself start to sulk. Then, I realized I had fallen in love not just with our basketball team, but with the idea that they were going to make Davidson, and me indirectly, recognizable to the world.

But as our memories of the basketball season slowly fade away, I have a much more important desire: that the players who made up the 1995-96 basketball team know that we are truly proud of the effort they put forth, and know that the magic of the season lay not with their impressive wins but with the hope and excitement they gave to us all.

Western Carolina halts dream season
By Michael Kruse
Assistant Sports Editor

The Southern Conference tourney was moved to the posh Greensboro Coliseum from Asheville, but the venue became the site of Davidson’s worst nightmare March 3, playing their worst game of the season at the worst possible time, and falling to South Division champ Western Carolina, 69-60. The Catamounts (17-13, 10-4) earned the league’s automatic NCAA tournament bid, their first ever trip to the Big Dance, and sent Davidson (25-5, 14-0) to an NIT date with South Carolina.

Davidson’s last lead (13-12) came 9:40 in, as Western built a 39-27 halftime advantage. The deficit grew to 47-30 before the Wildcats embarked on a furious 19-2 run spanning the next nine minutes, leaving the score knotted at 49-49 with 7:38 to go. But Davidson missed their next seven shots and Western sealed the shocker with a back-breaking 8-0 run.

Southern Conference Player of the Year, tournament MVP, and sixth-leading scorer in the country (26 ppg) Anquell McCollum faltered individually, scoring just 13 and missing all six of his three-point attempts, but his teammates picked up the slack. Sixth man Kevin Kullum notched 12 points and 10 boards, Jarvis Graham added 11 points, Joe Stafford, the nation’s top three-point bomber, 10.

For Davidson, Narcisse Ewodo starred, collecting 15 points and 13 rebounds, while Williams contributed 17 and eight. Chris Alpert tallied 16. But, Davidson stumbled to 33% shooting (23-for-70) from the floor (16% below their season average), 12.5% (3-for-24) from behind the arc (24% below), and 61% (11-for-18) at the line (12% below).

Josh Glazer
Ray Minlend dishes to “Ozone” Williams as the physical WCU zone converges on him in the final.

The Wildcats, who outrebounded opponents by 5 per game throughout the year, got beat on the boards 51-39. Versatility and bench play was nonexistent, as Jeff Anderson scored the sole reserve basket. Quinn Harwood, one of Davidson’s most reliable forces in the paint, scored only six, grabbed two boards, and fouled out with three minutes left in the game. Ray Minlend, usually an offensive dynamo, scored four on 1-for-6 shooting.

“Davidson had a lot of pressureOn them when they came here. And I think it showed,” Hopkins said.

“Sometimes you have it, sometimes you don’t,” said South Carolina coach Eddie Fogler after his team dismantled Davidson on Wednesday in front of 7,168 at Carolina Coliseum. On Wednesday, the Gamecocks most definitely had it, putting on an utterly dominant offensive show, shooting 69.4% from the field, 70% from behind the arc, and 71% from the line. Sharp-shooting guard Larry Davis had it, converting on 12 of his 13 shot attempts, including all seven of his threes, on his way to 33 points. Point guard BJ McKie hit 14 of 15 free throws, tallying 22 points, while forward Malik Russell bucketed 16 on 8-for-10 shooting.

“When they put it together, they’re a pretty talented team,” said McKillop, “Certainly they put it together tonight.”

After Davidson jumped out to an 8-0 lead in the first three minutes, South Carolina responded with a 17-5 run. Davidson claimed a 25-23 advantage on a Minlend layup. But the Gamecocks closed the half with a 22-8 spurt to take a 12-point lead and momentum into the break. The spread grew to 17 (65-48) at the ten-minute juncture and a game-high 32 on a Davis dunk with 3:20 left.

Minlend was the high man for Davidson, slashing for 17 points. Jeff Anderson, starting in place of an injured Ewodo, tallied 14 on five of seven field goal attempts. Senior backup center Mark McGuire finished his collegiate career by tying his season high of eight points in 21 minutes, and Mark Donnelly shot 3-for-4 from long distance, accounting for 11 points off the bench. The seniors, who make up the winningest class in Davidson history, ended their careers with a 75-40 record. But even with their many triumphs, the fortieth loss will undoubtedly linger in their minds.

“It'll be a tough Spring and Summer knowing that your last two games were probably your worst,” said McKillop, “Those are supposed to be your best.”

Mountaineers end breakthrough year

New talent and old stalwarts push Wildcats to record-breaking season

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Assistant Sports Editor

The Wildcat women quietly had the best season in program history, going 14-12 (7-7 in the Southern), and fulfilling their season-long battle cry of NBG—Nothing But Greensboro, the site of women’s league semifinals and championship. But top-seeded App. St. (23-6, 14-0) ended the inspired campaign on March 2 with a solid 83-68 victory over Davidson and then knocked off Marshall the next day to capture the conference’s automatic NCAA Tournament bid.

Davidson arrived in Greensboro with high hopes after its 80-51 quarterfinal blowout versus Tennessee-Chattanooga on Feb. 28 in Belk Arena, but the Mountaineers’ inside-outside strategy simply proved too strong. As coach John Filar said, “To beat Appalachian St., you have to hope they have a semi-off night from the perimeter. You pay when they start hitting the threes.” And Davidson paid. Hinton and forward Merideth Thompson represented the inside punch, each scoring 14, while guard Melissa Davis hit five of seven three-pointers en route to 23 points and 8 rebounds.

Davidson trailed 50-40 after a high-scoring first half, in which the Wildcats shot 53%. But, App. St. started the second frame with an 11-2 spurt. From then on, the deficit inched consistently upwards, growing to a game-high 19 (80-61) with 8:29 left. The Mountaineers coasted the rest of the way.

“In the second half today, we really stepped up our defensive intensity and only gave up 28 points to a good ballclub,” said App. St. coach Linda Robinson, “We beat a great basketball team today.”

Carolyn Kirsch, 2nd team All-Conference, led the Wildcats with 14 points and 7 boards, while Jessica Montrella added 12 and 6. Jamie Brown posted a double-double (12 points and 10 rebounds), while twin sister Kerry added 8. Elizabeth DuBose scored 9 points, her season high, and dished out 4 assists. Senior Kristen Ferrucci, who scored 7 in abbreviated action due to a knee injury suffered in the quarterfinals, and classmates Molly Burke, Tonya Sharpe, and Maggie Young all played their last Davidson game.

After having posted just five and four wins in the last two seasons, respectively, this year’s 14 wins represent a dramatic turnaround.

“I’m awful proud of the young ladies we have and what we’ve done this year,” said Filar, “I hope you would all tip your hats to them.”

Robinson praised the resurgent Wildcats during the post-game press conference: “Davidson is so talented with the recruits and the upperclassmen. They’ve really done a fantastic job with meshing. They’ve become an extremely dangerous basketball club because they have everything. They’ve brought in some nice kids who are nice players. They’re right on track.”