RTS & LIVING

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1996

STRUT

Top Left: Regina Marranzini sports the leaf motif.

Top Right: Bill Abrams flexes in formal wear.

Bottom Left: Mariah Summers shows her stuff.

Bottom Right: Mother-daughter duo styles black leather.

Will Nolen

YOUR STUFF

FLAG supermodels work it down the runway for charity

THE MADNESS

By ANN CULP
Staff Writer

As 200 people filed into the Commons, everyone was given a color-coded bean. A two-course meal with bread, cheese, chicken
in an almond sauce, broccoli, candlesticks, waiters, and music awaited 20% of the lucky crowd. However, 80% would get a
tin can with a scoop of rice, dirty looking water, one cracker, and one orange.

The Oxfam Hunger Banquet on Nov. 6 was a simulation of international concern related to poverty and hunger. An estimated
840 million people around the world are hungry, 25 million of those in the U.S. Another 460 million people are
so poor that they get too little food to lead fully productive lives. In one night, Davidson imitated the complex
problem of world hunger.

The lower class was herded into a room. They ate on the floor and could easily take 2 crackers from
the basket passed around, stealing from someone else. Many of these “poor” had been fasting for the five meals prior
to the banquet, but the “wealthy” had been given 80% of the banquet’s food. Because 35,000 children die each day
from hunger-related causes, 72 dead babies were said to be present in the room.

No one from the “rich” got up from their table to share with anyone else. As the night progressed, some
of the lower class were faced with the decision to beg or steal from the table. As stealing began, the
“poor” became well-fed.

Another component of the night was awareness and there were several speakers to share their experience.

Will Nolen

Señora Peña directed the events of the night which Andrew Letizia, class of '99, organized.

Hunger exists because of poverty, war, and the unequal distribution of resources, not because of overpopulation. World harvests in a
normal year produce enough wheat, corn, rice, and other grains to provide every person with more than the daily requirement
of 2,280 calories.

One of the poems that Peña read contained the line “And how would anyone who has eaten his fill and
is well be able to understand the madness of hunger?”. The Oxfam Hunger Banquet was only a simulation of the
greater world problem. Facts and statistics cannot describe the feeling of hopelessness malnutrition causes.

Because Davidson students pretended to be poor for one night does not mean that they can understand the depth of
this problem. Yet, because the students pretended to be poor for one night, they can contribute to hunger awareness and
encourage action.
