THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1996 13

Spelunking the music underground
By James BERRY
Arts & Living Editor

After a long and frustrating haul through Charlotte, my friends and I finally found the elusive Best Western that housed
our final destination. As if I don’t spend enough money on recorded music already, from CD clubs to tantalizing sales
at Best Buy, I sat excitedly in the back seat with mid-morning burger in hand to check out my first
CD & music show.

Those of you who feed only off of radio hits and find your appetites satisfied by the boring mass recordings
that fill the shelves of ordinary music stores shouldn’t waste your time at such gatherings. But anyone who has ever
listened to an artist and found themselves involuntarily uttering, “I want more” to the stereo’s control panel might want to
keep reading. A mountain of pleasures awaits you.

Catching only a breath of the 70-degree weather in between the car and the hotel lobby, we quickly made our
way to a crowded conference room where the treasure trove lay in wait. I parted fairly easily with the three-dollar
admission before entering. I was quickly swallowed up by the circle of tables covered in merchandise and let the patrons’
movements carry me over the floor before stopping for my first perusal.

Behind each of the tables sat a character not easily described. I felt a little like I was caught in
the Mos Eisley cantina on Tatooine as my eyes passed over a variety of styles including the “retired dead head”
and the “I have nothing in life but music, please don’t mind my nerdy clothes.” These dealers, I slowly discovered,
came from all over the southeast and some beyond that. They came with one purpose in mind: to share the
music of the ages (from the age of vinyl to the digital period) and to make gobs of money doing
it.

See, a great part of the music for sale was in the form of bootlegs. If you’ve ever wondered about
that guy at the concert who never got into the music and kept looking under his jacket, this might serve
as an answer. He was checking the digital tape recorder stowed lovingly in his armpit and getting a copy of
the performance. Granted some bootleggers find a way to the mixing board and come out with an almost perfect copy,
but the concept is the same. Since artists never see a cent of the money, the practice is outlawed in
the U.S. but foreign imports are fine and dandy. So bootleg companies get their tape, duplicate it in Italy and
sell it in the US for lots of dough.

An average concert costs about 25 dollars and while some stores find a place on their shelves for imports, their
selection doesn’t even come close to what I saw in this room. In addition to concert CDs, the vendors at
the CD show had B-side compilations, rare limited edition CDs, promotional CDs, recorded interviews, records, posters, comic books (don’t ask
me how that relates), as well as a plethora of your run-of-the-mill new and used CDs. Whether you’re looking for
a deal or that scarcely heard song by Moon Unit and the Eliminators, this is the place you have to
go. If you don’t find what you’re looking for, you'll find something else.

White Zombie wakes the dead
By RUDOLPH BEILER & JACOB ABRAHAM
Staff Writers

Our concert correspondent Rudy Beiler recently had the pleasure of seeing White Zombie perform at the Charlotte Hornets Training Facility
in Fort Mill, S.C. Here’s what he had to say after the show,

So, Rudy, what was the band like?
Hrnh, hrnh. There was this, like, evil-looking dude in a black hat. His name was, like, Rob Zombie or something.
He had a really cool beard. The bassist chick was, like, RARE

By Dorcas AND MADGE
Consulting Astrologists

Aquarius (January 20-February 18)— Yo-ho-ho, Aquarians! The stars point to a sea voyage in the near future. While exploring the
pelagic depths, be mindful of scurvy. Aargh! Love Day: Saturday. Love site: a sea-going vessel.

Pisces (February 19-March 20)— Spawn, you Valentine! Cupid went fishing and he caught you. Do not try to go up
the river, just go with the flow. Love Day: Wednesday. Love site: Lake Norman.

Aries (March 21-April 19)— Chinese food will bring you good fortune this week. Steer clear of the Egg Foo Young,
though. Erogenous zone: palate. Love day: Thursday. Love Site: Lotus 28.

Taurus (April 20-May 20)— The delphic fumes of Richardson Plaza reveal an eternal truth to you. Frequent it, you cannot
receive it, if you are not there. Love Day: Saturday. Erogenous zone: pinky toe.

Gemini (May 21-June 20)— Be fearless. ThisHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

This is your week to make daring fashion statements. Try experimenting with astral projection. Conditions are prime.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)—Smile, crabby! Your life will only become better in the coming week. On Valentine’s Day, your most
secret desire will come true. Love day: Every day. Love site: Everywhere.

Leo (July 23-August 22)—Beware, Lion. Your roar falls on deaf ears this week. Wax philosophical; it will impress the opposite
sex. Love Day: Sunday. Love site: Elm Row.

Virgo (August 23-September 22)—Beware of uncomfortable social situations. Watch out for falling rocks. Bridge freezes before road. The best things
come to those who wait. A stitch in time saves nine. Distance lends enchantment to the view. Love Day: Monday.

Libra (September 23-October 22)—Weigh your options carefully this week. Measure out your time solicitously so that there is time for
work and play. Avoid the noid. You know what we mean. Love day: Friday. Erogenous zone: ear lobes.

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)—Watch it, you heartbreaker, you! Cupid has pierced you with one too many arrows. It is time
to decide on one or the other. Play fair. Love day: Tuesday (a.m.) and Thursday (p.m.).

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21)—Look for consistency in your life, shape-shifter! You cannot be protean all of your life. With Saturn’s
alignment with Mars, you should be able to expect good luck in your studies. Love Day: Monday. Love Site: Energy
Explorium (Exit 28).

Capricorn (December 22-January 19)—Explore your love of nature this week. Take a roll or two in the dirt. Mind the
chiggers. A hearty hike in the woods is just what you need in preparation for the physical demands of Valentine’s
Day. Love Day: Wednesday. Love site: the great outdoors.

For entertainment purposes only. HOTLINE 1-900-896-8591 hot and stuff.

She had hair that was real big. The other guitarist dude didn’t really fit in. He would, like, jump around
and fling his hair. I guess that was pretty cool, though. Beavis and Butthead fans unite!

Right. Um, did you get good seats? I bet the crowd was pretty interesting. Like, I went up close to
the front of the arena, like, to the third row, which was pretty cool. The only part that really sucked
about that was that, like, everybody wanted to be where I was, so they were, like, pushing me and stuff.
When the people were crowd surfing, the other people would, like, accidentally drop them on their heads, hrnh hrnh. The
falling people made some really cool noises, like thud. Like, near the end of the show, I, like, got kicked
in the head. That sucked.

I see. What was your favorite thing about the show? Like, just before the band started playing, there was lots
of FIRE! FIRE! FIRE!

SPRING BREAK GET READY FOR SPRING BREAK CRUISE

NEW TAN RATES $4.00 PER SESSION 10 sessions for $33.00 15 sessions for $43.00 20 sessions for $50.00 Monthly Unlimited
for $49.00

Located at the Chair Factory 20700 N. Main St., Cornelius (704) 892-7030

Sculptured Nails * French Manicures * Pedicures

TREAT YOURSELF TODAY!

---

The Crossword

ACROSS
1 Caan
7 False belief
9 Pertaining to Mt.
26 Football
37 Liable
38 Single
39 Legendary creature
41 Vertebrae
42 Pickle flavoring
47 Nonsense!
48 Baseball player
54 Perceives
56 Criminal
58 Winglike parts
60 Pointless
62 Young person

DOWN
1 Competitions
3 Omnivore
4 Sculptured
6 See
8 Singly
12 Race distance
19 Goat's cry
20 Pertaining to
26 Hardware item
27 Lacy edge
34 The Wizard of
52 Bickhorn

ANSWERS:
1. WIZARD
2. OMNIVORE
3. SCULPTURED
4. SEE
5. SINGLY
6. RACE DISTANCE
7. GOAT'S CRY
8. PERTAINING TO
9. HARDWARE ITEM
10. LACY EDGE
11. THE WIZARD OF
12. BICKHORN

---

It's better in the Bahamas! 7 Days & 15 Meals! JAMAICA $459! 7 Nights! Air, Hotel, & Parties! PANAMA CITY
$119 7 Nights! Room with Kitchen Near the Bars! FLORIDA FROM $159! *Cocoa Beach *Key West *Daytona! 1-800-678-6386 http://www.springbreaktravel.com
