DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1996

Gong show

By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

Davidson will have its own version of the Gong Show during halftime of four men’s basketball games this season.

Acts, which must be approved by the marketing department, should be no longer than two minutes, and the winners from
the first three games will compete in the finals in February. The grand prize will have a value of around
$500. Other finalists will also receive a prize. Call Alec McAlister x2781 with questions...

Davidson students will again shoot for a car during halftime of ten home games this year. One student and one
other fan will shoot each time...

The college will host Southeast Regional first and second round games at the Charlotte Coliseum on Mar. 14 and 16.

Ticket books for the three double-headers are on sale now for $75 in the ticket office. On Friday, the eight
teams which come to Charlotte will face off in afternoon and evening double-headers. The winners will play each other on
Sunday afternoon, with two teams advancing to Birmingham for the Sweet 16.

Tickets are limited so act soon if you don’t want to miss the action...

During the sixteen dates listed in the ad below, the Davidson athletic department needs students to move their cars out
of the first two bays of the Baker parking lot. They must be empty for the athletic department to meet
contractual agreements.

“Baker wants to be a parking remedy on 349 days of the year, but on those other 16 days we
need the student’s help,” game management director Lee Sargent said...

Student seating at basketball games will be different this year, due to a change in conference policy.

The first three rows behind the visitors' bench are earmarked for visiting team parents, but to make up for the
lost seats, a new section will be left open for students. Students will be asked to choose whether they want
to sit near our bench or near the visitors’ bench.

STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF

Are you looking for a place to park?

Please remember that we have 600 free spaces in the Baker Sports Complex Parking Lot for your use 349 days
a year.

Now, please help us on the other sixteen days when we host Men’s Basketball Games!

You may still park at Baker but... only in the third parking bay (200 spaces closest to Concord Road) on
the sixteen dates listed below:

November 13
November 18
November 27
December 2
December 5
December 7
December 14
January 5 (Xmas Break)
January 8 (Xmas Break)
January 13
January 18
February 1
February 6
February 8
February 10
February 22

Thanks for your help!!!

---

Davidson countered with three straight touchdowns.

Four minutes later, Dugan found rookie speedster Roland Williams for a 73-yard touchdown bomb, Davidson’s longest play from scrimmage this
year.

Landis called it “one of the most exciting plays we’ve had in the last few years.”

On the ensuing Colonel offensive possession, linebacker Wes Thornton tipped a Crawford pass right into the arms of Wright, who
ran 30 yards for the score.

Tailback Lorenzo Moll’s 2-yard TD run widened the lead with 8:58 left in the half and Dugan added a 1-yard
run 32 seconds before intermission, giving Davidson a 28-14 halftime advantage.

Moll struck for his second touchdown of the day on a 1-yard run at the 14:17 mark of the fourth
frame.

And Nate Hagerman recorded his first career touchdown on a 52-yard, tackle-breaking dash with 9:45 remaining.

“It was incredible,” said Landis. “Nate possesses that ability. He’s only a sophomore and I think great things are going
to come from him.”

Wes Thornton (10 tackles and a sack) led the solid defensive effort, while Jay Ariail and Chris Hess each registered
8 tackles.

“We put it together really well,” said Dugan. “The coaches had a good game plan. We scouted them out really
well. The option was working today. Everything just really clicked today.”

---

Will Bradshaw
Quarterback Tommy Dugan, who rushed for a career-high 100 yards and threw for 209 on Saturday, tries to avoid a
would-be Colonel tackler.
