THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & MONDAY, APRIL 1, 1996

"Necessary voice" speaks in tongues
By CHAD FOGLEMAN
Staff Writer

Michael Hofmann’s “necessary voice” sighed softly in its British accents to a 900 Room audience straining for the sound and sense of this often difficult poetry of foreignness. “Everywhere is abroad to me,” confessed the German-born, British-educated poet and translator who now teaches at the University of Florida in Gainesville. His poem “The Machine that Cried” digests “the crux” for Hofmann: “When I learned that my parents were returning to Germany, and that I was to be jettisoned, I gave a sudden lurch into infancy and Englishness.” The words of his poem “Guanajuato Two Times” seem applicable to much of Hofmann’s work: “slowly familiar, slowly invisible, amiable, obtuse...”

“It’s hard,” Professor Ralph Black mused upon Hofmann’s reading; yet the poetry’s heaviness has its undeniable humor. “My humour was gravity,” says the speaker of “Ancient Evenings,” “so I sat us both in an armchair and toppled over backwards.” In “Scylla and Minos” from his collection of translations After Ovid, the hilarity of his colloquially mythic language washes the solemn germ of Hofmann’s own poetic impetus—his “lack of affiliation.” “I thought: gimme!” exclaims the besieged maiden upon beholding Minos, the besieger. “A big girl wants a man like that,” Scylla pines, then betrays her city with the unrealized hope: “Perhaps if we lost... then I’d get to be his wife or his sex slave or something.”

Of Hofmann’s reading, Michael Hofmann. Courtesy of Michael Hofmann, Thayer Long opined enigmatically, “It’s subtle... very subtle.” Versifier Geordie Schimmel (who certainly deserved a blurb on the jacket of one of Hofmann’s books K.S. in Lakeland, Acrimony, or Corona, Corona) reflected: “He was... a perspicuous and rapt attention to the particularities of our existence, to the things which comprise us.” Stuffing both thin hands in his pants’ pockets, Hofmann read for an hour of “Metempsychosis,” of “Marvin Gaye,” of the American South and Lynyrd Skynyrd’s “Freebird,” of piss artists, parricide, Cambridge, and the Primrose Path. The wideness of his red-rimmed eyes above high cheekbones and the occasional jerk to scratch his head accentuated the smooth sounds of his easy, wispy conversation.

Hofmann urges “everything is essential—there are no details” in his poem “The Machine That Cried”; of “From A to B and Back Again,” he quips “a lot of things are done for no reason at all.” Overwhelmingly, Hofmann’s poetry aspires to “subterfuge, buried meaning, implication.” Consider the final line of “Wheels”: “wheelchair hulls, rhombuses, stalled quartz.” The poet, having perplexed and intrigued his audience with the “dance of intellect” among his words, bowed slightly, smiled, and shrugged.

Senior theater project addresses feminine imagination
Amanda Davis interprets two short stories into plays
By JENNIFER MILLER
Guest Writer

“Do you ever have rape fantasies?” abruptly asked Chrissy (Kay Walraven) in one of the two one-act plays from Amanda Davis’s senior project. The plays, Rape Fantasies and The Yellow Wallpaper, were performed by Jessica Robblee, Kay Walraven, Sarah Hankins, and Amanda Davis on Monday and Tuesday night in the Black Box Theater. The plays were adapted from their original texts by Davis and took an active roleIn women’s month, a theater major with a gender studies concentration, Davis says she has always planned her senior project to address women’s issues or to come from women authors. "Rape Fantasies" is a comical look at a serious issue that can be very emotional. Despite the play’s light-hearted mood depicting love affairs with James Bond-types and steamy bathtubs, the serious message — that rape is real and happens — comes clearly across. The play’s point is delivered through humor so that afterwards, the audience realizes the play’s inherent contradiction.

"Yellow Wallpaper," adapted from Charlotte Perkins Gilman’s 1892 short story, was a change of pace. Though the play takes place in the late 19th century, modern audiences can relate to its theme of defining one’s self. The one-woman, one-act is a surreal and eye-opening look at the effects of the society-imposed roles of women. Though the play had limited props, the image of the wallpaper “with lines that suddenly commits suicide” was vividly painted by the performer, Amanda Davis. Director Jimmy Lloyd said he used blue and green lighting to produce a “sick look” on Amanda’s skin and warm lights of red and orange on the “normal side” of the room. The play’s “theater in the round” presentation (in which audience members watch from every angle) yielded an intimate performance that both the audience and the performers enjoyed.

Valerie Mims in the Big Screen Room 7 p.m. - 9 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java gears you up for the week to come 8 p.m.
Coffeehouse wakes you up in the 900 Room 8 a.m. - 11 a.m.
Workshop with Jay Freidman takes place in the Morrison Room 4:30 p.m. - 6 p.m.
Dean Rusk Program Event in the Big Screen Room 7 p.m. - 8 p.m.
Open Forum: The Keg Issue — come voice your opinions and hear the truth about the self-study and the fate of Patterson Court in Chambers Gallery 7 p.m. - 9 p.m.
Jay Freidman speaks in the 900 Room 8 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java shakes you up in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.
Twenty-One Year Old Night is a good study break? In the 900 Room 10:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.
AVOSANL Lawn 11:30 a.m. - 2 p.m.
Issues in the 900 Room 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m.
Student Health Fair does your body good on Chambers
Women’s Housing Lottery — find a place to live; the search is on in Chambers Gallery 6:30 p.m. - 10:30 p.m.
Dean Rusk Program Speaker broaches international issues in the 900 Room 9:30 p.m.
CROP Lunch feeds the hungry in the 900 Room 11 a.m. - 2 p.m.
Men’s Housing Lottery — offers homes for the homeless in the Chambers Gallery 6:30 p.m. - 10:30 p.m.
The Sandwalk — envisioning beaches? Come for a walk in the sand in the 900 Room 8 p.m. - 11 p.m.
Jewelry Sale in the Union Lobby 10 a.m. - 4 p.m.
Hoop Dreams — put this on your Friday night game plan

Easter Break!

Charles E. Lloyd Prize for Non-Fiction: Contest Winners
Personal Essay — First Place: Ned Erickson
— Second Place: Kay Walraven
Academic Essay — First Place: William Robert
— Second Place: Katie Tobin

Windley R. Hall Prize for Best Freshman Writing: Contest Winners
First Place: Jason Ferris
Second Place: Cintra Pollack
Honorable Mention: Will Bradshaw