THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 1996

Everybody should honestly rejoice. It’s sad, I know, that somebody can write into a school paper professing only their religion.
I’m no expert on religion, but I just need to speak my mind. Did you know that there is absolutely
no meaning on earth without God? The entire universe means nothing without a greater purpose. There is no greater feeling
in the world than having no doubt in your heart for yourself. At the same time, there is no real
feeling of self-confidence, just a certain knowledge of imperfection and the absolute inevitability of failure. I am going to fail,
many times, yet this is not a worry. We are backed up by an incredible power. Even writing this I
tend to doubt myself. There is, however, more meaning than my personal quality.

Everybody wonders if they are really as good as the next. As I write I think I am better than
some people because I have the courage to write this to The Davidsonian, and that I am certainly going to
receive acclaim from Christians for being so passionate in my beliefs. These are in fact very new beliefs. I continually
remind myself that I write not for myself but for others, to alleviate fears of imperfection.

Actually, this whole thought process has been instigated by an article in the December 3rd issue of Parade magazine about
Rene Russo. It is incredibly recommendable. It contains irrefutable truth. Don’t think I’m really cool, either, for being able to
express myself so confidently, without worry for others. This is inside every single human being alive. I have thought for
a while that I am really incompetent, not measuring up. Nothing feels better than getting relief from those fears, and
I’m just trying to help other people. I will continue to doubt myself and yet it is really senseless. See
if you can find that issue of Parade. Rene Russo says in it that her whole life has been an
experiment in insecurity. She had an incredibly difficult childhood with a working mother and no father. She was extremely depressed
and convinced of her own incompetence. Then she was picked up for modeling and actually was very successful. And yet
she always wanted more.

In her 30s she said, “I took off four years and studied theology. I went to my church where they
give classes. Quite frankly, it’s the best thing I’ve ever done. It taught me what I’d been looking for. I
learned that what I needed to give me the self-esteem I didn’t have was faith. Faith is knowing that I’ve
been put on this earth with certain gifts and certain goals and that I’m going to end up where I’m
supposed to — no matter what I’m going through right now. When you have faith, you can’t help but accept
yourself. For the first time I realized there was no reason to be hard on myself. Suddenly I didn’t care
what other people thought of me. I was fine just the way I was. And whatever I chose to do
next, I didn’t care if I failed.”

Later in the article, she says that “the way I feel about myself today is so different than even five
years ago that it’s exciting. I have real moments of joy now, and I know it will continue.”

Man, do I feel better. If we are constantly concerned with ourselves then we are completely subject to the whims
of our own self-doubt. I’ve tried lately to counteract tendencies in self-doubt, and I can swear to you that this
is the only answer. There is absolutely no other way. You can say “come on, just be confident.” You're as
good as him, but eventually your doubts will come creeping back and you'll have to start all over, saying “okay,
just act confident.” Maybe that’s it, and coolness flows from that. With God, there is absolutely no concern for anything
that happens to us in this world. I’m talking to people because I want them to share my joy. I
swear. I’ve been kind of down for a while. There is no meaning outside of God, and I feel this
so strongly. I am so incredibly unconcerned about how I appear that I can write this in The Davidsonian, whereas
previously I was constantly in knots about how I would look. I tell you it is impossible to go through
life concerned with appearance. It simply doesn’t work, and the answer is faith. Without faith nothing has meaning, and we
as humans measure ourselves, feel incompetent and cast around for true life. Boy this is great. I don’t need to
run along too long. You guys are understanding me. Please just join me in having not the slightest care in
how you come off. You are destined to fail. So I’m not being cheesy. I’m being real. There are really
no worries. So sit down and stop worrying. F’s, C’s, living in a gutter, they are uncomfortable, but do they
really have anything to do with ultimate meaning?

Now I must struggle not to get cocky about sending this to The Davidsonian. I am proud of myself. It
really makes me feel good, and yet I am one person. I am completely equal to everyone else. I wish
I could convince you of the utter truth of this statement. I’m not really thinking about it either. It’s...Just flowing
out onto the paper. So thank God I’m doing better. Man, I could write a book. I really don’t want
to quit. I hope you get my drift. There is a little more I could say. Anyway, join me. It
might take a while of self-inspection and the like, but just remember that we are absolutely not responsible for our
own imperfections. We have been acted for. Without this, knowledge is fear and fear is no fun. I am going
to make an incredible number of mistakes and that makes me so happy. I’m on a high and I can’t
get down. This is the only joy that there is. Boy, does one thank God. Forgive me for being such
a nontrusting guy before. Now I honestly fear nothing, and I’m sure you can imagine how that would feel. Nothing
is in my hands. It’s weird too because I’ve been wondering about things for a while and this hasn’t really
come up. I was wondering—well, how can you surrender your pride to God? I don’t think I can do it.
Well, faith is just that, declaring that you are subject to God. Other than this, life’s meaning is nil. And
this happened today. It’s not like I decided anything. I’m lucky that this came about so early in life. Whereas
before, my future was cloudy and looked really not fun, it now sits before me like great fun. I will
have troubles, but I'll always be able to come back and look at this letter. I also tell you how
great it feels to have no pride—a truly wonderful feeling. It is nice to be so convinced of something.

Stan Boyd

More nonsense

This is it. The last Opinions section published under the shadow of El Jefe—my apartment mate. Of course, what would
be an Opinions section without the majority of the articles written by Apartment 201B. Keeping with tradition I oblige my
pleading buddy, dust off the ole Macintosh LC II, build a chair out of my dirty clothes pile, and proceed
to write the ultimate Opinions article. In the following paragraphs, I will attempt to write on such an array of
subjects that every reader will find at least one thing interesting. If you don’t find anything, then call #$%$ and
complain.

First off, for all you NBA fans, Hakeem (the ‘H’ is silent, the ‘O’ isn’t) Olajuwon’s autobiography is coming out
in February. In the book, he will talk about the last two playoffs as well as his personal road to
the top. The book is supposedly written in reportedly clear English. Hmmmmm. Check your local bookstore.

Also in February, for all you film buffs, the Sundance Institute (closely linked to the Sundance Film Festival established by
Robert Redford 15 years ago) will launch a cable television channel. The channel, starting the 23rd, will specialize in independent
and cutting-edge movies, uncut and commercial-free, according to The Salt Lake Tribune. By the way, the festival started last Thursday
and lasts ten days in Park City, Utah.

For all of you looking for a new fad, it’s peanuts. Not the already shelled peanuts that come in that
bottle with the walking peanut wearing the top hat and monocle on the label. No, it’s Jimbo’s Jumbos. Salted. You
can find them in the produce section of Harris Tweeters. Sure, you may hate peanuts or it may not sound
appealing to you right now, but I’m telling you, I bought a bag yesterday and started eating them as I
walked around campus—instant coolness. You have one, you’re hooked. In case you’re wondering, peanuts take the place of sunflower seeds
on the number one cool food list once baseball season ends. Try ‘em.

For those of you who like exercise, namely hoops, I’m sorry to report that there still aren’t any nets on
the court behind Martin Court F. Actually, I haven’t checked in a couple of days, but I’m willing to bet
I’m right. If anyone has a couple of empty fruit baskets we can relive the early years (ask a trivia
freak if you don’t follow me).

Scientists discovered the missing megabyte yesterday. You can read all about it in Science World.

Ok, here is a riddle for all you gamers out there. Three guys go to a restaurant and eat. The
bill is $30, so they each pay $10. In the back, the waiter/waitress realizes that the bill is really only
$25. Not wanting to mess with change (five does not go into three evenly), he/she pockets two dollars and gives
each of the guys one dollar back. Therefore each guy paid nine dollars for the meal. Nine times three is
$27; plus the two dollars the waiter/waitress pocketed equals $29. What happened to the missing dollar? Again, if you need
a hint, call $*%&.

Well, that’s the end of the ultimate article. I hope you found something of interest. The riddle is not a
play on words, and most of you will probably think it’s obvious and stupid, but I found it to be
beautiful and profound. One friend back home explained it as “the mathematical black hole.” Oh, yeah. I made up the
megabyte story just to please all you who like tabloids, or something.

Peace.
