THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 1996

Off-campus houses broken into

By ANDREW PRESTON
Staff Writer

As usual, burglars made a timely appearance at several off-campus houses. Apparently, these burglars were having trouble waking up. They took at least five alarm clocks, and little else.

One target was 210 Watson Street. As the three residents returned late in the night, they found that someone had been in the house.

Amber Huffman, a resident of the house, says, “I didn’t even really notice that anything was wrong until I noticed my answering machine was missing and some furniture was turned over.”

The burglars took some clothes and the clocks, but didn’t take anything valuable. Luckily, most students took their expensive possessions with them or packed them up for winter break.

Huffman and other residents of 210 Watson called the police as soon as they realized that their house had been broken into. A special “crime team” of police took fingerprints and comforted the victims.

“The police were very helpful and responded right away. They were very nice, especially considering the fact that it was about 4:30 in the morning,” says Huffman.

“It’s not that much of a shock to me, because this is the third year in a row that this apartment has been burglarized over winter break,” says Huffman, “It’s not really anything to worry about.”

Next door, on Depot Street, Jesse Kenner came back to find that his house had been burglarized as well.

The burglars took alarm clocks, a jar of change, a calculator, and a pillowcase. They also broke a phone cord. They didn’t take the computer or the two TVs that the three residents had left there.

The burglary apparently took place on Christmas Eve. They had locked a lot of their things up in dorm rooms on campus.

“It was pretty funny,” says Kenner, “when we discovered that a pillowcase was missing. They must have used it to take the alarm clocks.”

Rob Kosicki
Could it be Stan Boyd with El Jefe at Self-Selection?

Davidson College Women’s Film Festival

(Screenings will be in the 900 Room unless otherwise noted.)
1/30 8pm Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown
1/31 7pm The Last Seduction
9:30pm The Marriage of Maria Braun
2/1 7pm I've Heard the Mermaids Singing
9:30pm Daughters of the Dust
2/2 8pm The Incredibly True Adventures of Two Girls in Love
10pm Eat Drink Man Woman
2/4 7pm Therese
9:30pm Mi Vida Loca
2/5 7pm Ju Dou (Seaman Lecture Hall, VAC)
9:30pm Metropolis (Seaman Lecture Hall, VAC)
2/6 7pm Working Girls
9:30pm Quartier Mozart (Seaman Lecture Hall, VAC)
2/7 7pm The Double Life of Veronique
9:30pm Danson
2/8 9:30pm Ruby in Paradise

The Davidsonian is looking for editors to fill positions on the editorial board. Looks great on a resumé, meet lots of great people, have a great time... If interested, call Mandy, Bobby, William, or Russ at -2148.

If interested in writing for News, call Mary Clare Jalonick at -6287.

Auntie Virus asks, "Are YOU practicing safe computing?"

All Students, Faculty, and Staff are invited to pick up FREE Anti-Virus Software: (for use in the office, in the dorm, or at home)

When? Wednesday, Jan. 24, 10am-3pm
Where? Chambers Lobby
How? Bring a blank high-density diskette (Macintosh, DOS, and Windows software is available.)

Everyone who participates is eligible to WIN A PRIZE from Auntie Virus:
- $50 gift certificate to Les Trois Faisans
- $30 gift certificate to Media Play
- Five tickets to Movies at the Lake

NEED A DRESS FOR MIDWINTERS?

COME AND SEE US AT...

FRANKLY MY DEAR

Open Mon-Sat, 10-6
Layaway Available
106 South Main Street
896-8860