6 THE DAVIDSONIAN ELSEWHERE MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1996

Elections ’96

Election countdown: 1 day to go

Prediction from PoliSci Professor Susan Roberts and her crystal ball

Turnout = 49.7

Clinton over Dole with Clinton winning FLA, AZ, NC, CA

52% Clinton
42% Dole
6% Perot

GOP will retain control of Senate, losing one seat with total 52 GOP - 48 Dem

Helms will win over GANTT

Bruggere (D) will win over Smith (R) in open seat in OR

Johnson (D) will win over Pressler (incumbent - R) in SD

Governor Hunt re-elected over challenger Robin Hayes in NC

In House races, Democrats need to pick up 19 to gain control of House, and they will do just that
(maybe even 20 seat gain)

Senate Races

If the presidential race seems boring, then look no further than the Senate races. Several races — particularly in the
South — are hotly contested.

North Carolina
Jesse Helms and Harvey Gantt are running a close race. They ran it six years ago, but many argue that
the demographics of the state have changed since then, with almost 700,000 people moving into the state. Gantt is the
former mayor of Charlotte, and Senator Helms is head of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

Alabama
No clear favorite. Republicans thought they could easily pick up Alabama, but the candidate, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, has not
run a strong enough campaign to be sure. State Senator Roger Bedford is the Democratic nominee. They are running to
fill Democratic Senator Howell Heflin’s seat.

Arkansas
No clear favorite. Republican Representative Tim Hutchinson and Democratic state Attorney General Winston Bryant are running neck in neck. The
race seemed likely to go to Republican Mike Huckabee, but he had to replace Governor Jim Guy Tucker, who resigned
as a result of the Whitewater scandal.

Georgia
No clear favorite. Democratic nominee and former Georgia Secretary of State Max Cleland is running a close race with Republican
and former Gubernatorial candidate Guy Millner. Cleland, a Vietnam war hero, is a triple amputee in a wheelchair.

Kentucky
No clear favorite. Incumbent Republican Mitch McConnell is fighting his third difficult race against former Lt. Governor Democrat Steven Beshear.

Louisiana
No clear favorite. Republican State Rep. Louis “Woody” Jenkins is running against Democratic Former State Treasurer Mary L. Landrieu. They
are running to fill the seat vacated by retiring Democratic Senator J. Bennett Johnston.

Mississippi
Likely Republican. Thad Cochran, Republican Conference chairman, is considered an easy win for his fourth Senate term. His opponent is
little-known retired farmer James W. “Bootie” Hunt.

New Jersey
No clear favorite. Democratic Representative Robert G. Torricelli, the most well-funded congressional candidate in the country, is running against Republican
Representative Dick Zimmer.

South Carolina
Old favorite Republican Strom Thurmond, age 93, seems likely to win. If he does get elected to a seventh term,
he will have the longest record of Senate service ever six months into his term. Democratic challenger Elliott Close wants
South Carolinians to “send him home,” but it doesn’t seem to be working.

Tennessee
Republican likely. Incumbent Fred Thompson seems to have few negative ratings, and challenger attorney Houston Gordon is not well known.

Texas
Republican likely. Senator and Republican Primary candidate Phil Gramm will most likely crush opponent Victor Morales. Morales, a Hispanic schoolteacher,
was once a promising candidate but his inexperience has proven to be a liability.

West Virginia
Democratic safe. John D. Rockefeller IV is a legend to West Virginians, and is a shoo-in for the race. Republican
opponent, Nurse Betty A. Burks, is not campaigning and said that she is running to make sure the GOP ballot
line was filled.

Source: CNN/Time AllPolitics

Learn the art of the Elsewhere page. Call Mary Clare at -2148.

The Davidsonian Beyond Davidson

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1996

International ... Japan's LDP unable to form a coalitionexperts believe that Japanese Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto's Liberal Democratic Party will
be unable to form a coalition to attain majority status in Japan's lower house of Parliament. The LDP has held
power in Japan from the Second World War until 1993. In the October 20 elections, the LDP won 239 of
500 lower house seats and is now apparently stalled in non-majority status. Japan's smaller parties are rejecting the LDP's offers
of forming a coalition in fear of being dominated by the LDP's near-majority number of seats.

Mexican kidnappings rise, frighten international investors
A surge in Mexican kidnappings has aroused fear in international investors. Mexican officials cite several reasons for the increase in
kidnapping cases, most of which do not appear to be politically motivated. Officials say drug traffickers, leftist guerrilla groups, and
the near-devastation of Mexico's economy two years ago are to blame.

Air raids in Afghanistan capital kill three children
Three children were killed in Kabul, the capital of Afghanistan, last Thursday during fighting between the Taliban's Islamic guerrillas and
anti-rebel factions. The Taliban Islamic group took control of Kabul a month ago and immediately began to convert the city
to strict Islamic law. Women are no longer allowed to work, and girls are no longer admitted in schools.

National ...
Attorney General Reno considers pursuing investigation
The Justice Department will decide soon whether to initiate an independent counsel investigation based on complaints of possible illegal fundraising
activities by the Democrats. If the investigation goes through, a verdict will not be rendered until after the November 5
elections.

Jewell cleared in Centennial Park bombing
Richard Jewell, the Atlanta Olympics security guard who was the FBI's only declared suspect in the July 27 bombing in
Centennial Park, was cleared in the investigation two Saturdays ago by the Justice Department.

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Kind of delivery: abbr.
5 Shows the way
10 Renown
14 Pasternak character
15 Kind of tube
16 Freshly
17 Tel —
18 Seize
20 Biology branch
22 Falk or Fonda
23 Wool eater
29 Time of life
33 In unison
34 River in Switzerland
35 Gaelic
36 Jet letters
37 Chinese food
40 Cudgel
41 Horseshoe location
43 — and rave
44 “— Ike”
46 Circus performers
48 One of the Golden Horde
49 Rustic
50 Lennon or Candy
51 Body structure: abbr.
55 Predicted
59 Quilts’ cousins
62 Charles Lamb
63 Leave out
64 Broadcast portion
65 Split
66 Fan
67 Not yet ripe
68 Distinction

DOWN
1 Dross
2 — the way
3 Ireland, poetically
4 Prehistoric people
5 Lawful
6 Son of Cain
7 Sothern and Jillian
8 Meaning: abbr.
9 — Lanka
10 — music
11 Arab ruler
12 Apportion
13 Pitcher
19 Agile
21 “We're off — the Wizard...”
24 Mystical card
25 Cain's victim
26 Ali —
27 Org.'s cousin
28 Turbine part
29 Farm structures
30 Circle the earth
31 Japanese port city
32 Hinder
34 Marble
38 Take forcibly
39 Flexible
42 Woods
45 Source of light
47 Baby sound
50 Actress Foster
51 Welles or Bean
52 Black, to poets
53 Office note
54 Miss Adams
55 Grow dim
56 Butter substitute
57 Yarn fuzz
58 FL county
60 Cloth for cleaning
61 A continent: abbr.
