4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1996

A closer look at parking prices
Norfleet: “any fee is going to increase”

By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
News Editor

Even before classes began last week, news of Davidson’s $20 vehicle registration price jump spread quickly. However, the reasons behind
that fee increase remained a mystery to many. Even Campus Police and Safety officials said they were not informed as
to why the cost of registering one’s car on campus shot up from $60 last year to $80 this fall.

Vice President of Business and Finance Robert Norfleet said that he could not immediately recall the specific details behind the
decision to raise the registration fee. The decision, he said, was part of the overall “budgeting process which took place
a year ago.” Norfleet did say that “any fee is going to increase because costs go up,” and that Davidson’s
vehicle registration fee was no exception. Because the registration fee has not kept pace with the gradual increase in general
student fees, and because the $60 cost was “somewhere below half of the typical fee” at other schools in this
region, the budget planning committee targeted vehicle registration fees for increase.

“You won’t be seeing those kinds of percent increases again,” said Norfleet, referring to this year’s 33% hike in parking
registration costs. “We’re looking at every form of revenue outside of tuition in order to keep [tuition] costs down.” Norfleet
confirmed that the revenue generated by the $80 fee goes directly into a campus general account, from which various departments
and projects are funded.

Staff crowds out students? Computer lab concerns

By IAN HUMMEL
Staff Writer

Despite positive reaction from most students, some concern has been raised concerning the decision to move Davidson’s Computer Lab from
the User Services Building to Belk Dorm. Some students voice concern that the school may be beginning a pattern of
uprooting students from buildings to make room for school faculty.

In explanation of the move, Lydia Lorenzin, Coordinator of Academic Computing Facilities and Services, said that the move began with
Computer Services employees having to leave their offices in other buildings to make room for other school faculty. Forced to
make a decision, the school decided to move the Lab to make room for offices in the User Services Building.

Though it was not the decision of Computer Services to make the move, Lorenzin has been encouraged by the way
things have turned out. “We just took advantage of a situation that turned up,” she said.

In addition to the move, the User Services Building is in the midst of another major change. Construction is already
underway as workers lay the concrete foundation for an addition to the rear of the old computer center building. According
to current plans, this addition will house a training facility for Computer Services staff.

Nails
manicures * pedicures * acrylic * gels * tips * fiberglass
Facial Waxing
contact Diane @ 892-1633
NAIL BOUTIQUE

The Duchess Nail, Hair & Tanning Salon
Full service salon for women & men
892-7030

"Best Prices in Town"
Tanning
"Hottest Bulbs in Town"
$4.00 per session * $33.00 for 10 sessions
$43.00 for 15 sessions * $50.00 for 20 sessions
RedKen Hair Products & more...
Hair precision cuts * perms
DAVIDSON STUDENTS $10.00 CUTS!
Diane: 892-1633
Trudy: 895-8012
Located 1/2 mile south of Davidson College Campus
892-7030
20700 N. Main St.

Question of the week: What is the Sparrow’s Nest?

Although it is in beer-can-throwing distance of Belk and on the path to the Commons and the laundry, most Davidson
students have no idea what the Sparrow’s Nest is. A sign in the window states that the building is currently
Tony Owens’ office. But the small brick building obviously has a history that extends beyond the headquarters for the Supervisor
of Building.Services. In the 1840s, Thomas W. Sparrow paid Davidson College $600 for 50 acres of land, including the area
between the infirmary and Belk Dorm. He built a large frame house approximately where Richardson Dorm is now, which stood
until 1960. He constructed a small brick building adjacent to the house to serve as servants’ quarters. Upon moving in,
Thomas Sparrow and his wife became actively involved in the Davidson community. In turn, Davidson College students became actively involved
with the Sparrows because of their four charming daughters. Young men who frequently visited the home in pursuit of the
Sparrow girls began referring to the home as the “Sparrow’s Nest.”

In 1915, the Shoemaker sisters turned the Sparrow home into a boarding house. Because a large number of students ate
at the boarding house for only $18 a month, one of the cheapest prices around, the house became known as
“the Trough.” The brick structure next to “the Trough” — today’s Sparrow’s Nest — served as a storeroom until a
missionary-minded widow took up residence in the little Sparrow’s Nest and began passing out religious tracts in efforts to save
sinful students. By 1961, it was a storeroom for the laundry and needed renovation. Many students were in favor of
placing vending machines in the building and some thought it should be used for the new student bookstore. In the
1970s, it was turned into a security building and remained so until 1990. The little building known to Davidson students
as the Sparrow’s Nest has been a home to slaves, a missionary widow, and laundry detergent. Today it is finally
a home-away-from-home for building services’ Tony Owens.

— Susan Ruggiero

PROFILE: John Reuning

By John Dunwoody
Staff Writer

While Davidson students settle into their dorms and apartments, a new presence is moving in with them. Davidson is making
efforts to wire all dorm rooms to a campus-wide Internet system. The comfort of a computer lab in the privacy
of one’s own dorm room will be available to some by the end of the semester. Residential Networking Supervisor John
Reuning ‘95 is working with the Trellis Communications Corporation, a networking company, on the project. Their plans for campus residence
halls include not only data communications, but telephone and voice mail, instructional video, cable TV, security video, e-mail and Internet/Ethernet
services, a debit card system, building climate control systems, access control and alarm systems, according to an article in the
spring Davidson Journal.

The project was originally going to be completed in phases over the next five years. It is now due to
be completed by the Spring of 1998, at the latest. The recent renovations on Irwin, Knox, and Akers Residence Halls
have slated them at the top of the list of dorms to be hooked up by the end of this
semester. They should be ready for student use during next term. The other dorms will be systematically wired and set
up for Internet access in the coming months. One concern raised was whether the dorm communications wiring would rob students
of social interaction. Reuning doesn’t think so. “I believe that this communications wiring should become a useful tool for academic
assistance. It should enhance, not rob the students. Just as any other machine or service, it is there to make
life easier,” Reuning said.

Cost for the dorm communications wiring is estimated at somewhere around $2 million. An additional $235,000 will be needed per
year for the increased staff, training, equipment, and cable service contracts, said the Journal article.
