DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1996

15

Women’s soccer grabs win at JMU tourney

Goalkeeper Allison Noznesky sets up her defense for one of Clemson’s 11 corner kicks.

By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

To add scoring punch to an offense that had mustered only three goals in its first three games, coach Kevin
Hundley moved sweeper Amy Balsinger into the midfield during the Sheraton Tournament at James Madison this weekend. In Friday’s 1-0
win over Princeton, it paid off. With 4:23 remaining, Balsinger broke through the Princeton defense, knocking home the game-winner. Goalkeeper
Allison Noznesky had another standout day for the Wildcats, recording 12 saves en route to her first shutout of the
season.

“We had some chances and didn’t score. They had some chances and didn’t score. It was an even game, and
I’m really pleased,” Hundley said. “We made the switch and she got the game-winner. Hopefully we can keep things going
against Maryland (the #6 team in the nation).”

But Maryland had other plans. The Terrapins opened the game on a rampage, notching two goals in their first four
shots, and they held a 4-0 advantage by the 25th minute. They held on for a 4-1 win.

“They really took it to us early. They looked like the #6 team in the country and we looked confused
at times,” Hundley said. “But we brought in our normal substitutions, and they had watched what Maryland was doing. They
played really well.”

So well that the Wildcats ended up outshooting and outscoring Maryland in the second half. Early in the period, Natalie
Stumpf stole the ball and found Ginny Dye at the top of the penalty area. Dye turned and drove the
ball past the Maryland keeper for her second goal of the season. Freshman Chesley Garret also saw her first action
in goal, shutting out Maryland in the second half. It was the first time since 1994 that Noznesky came out.

“We played together in high school,” Noznesky said of Garret. “We work well together and it’s fun to have her
around. She’s also the most experienced keeper we’ve ever had coming in. She pushes me a lot in practice and
we should be sharing a lot of time this year.”

The Princeton win followed the team’s 4-1 loss at #9 Clemson on Monday.

“They had a lot of speed, and midfielder Beth Keller is a good distributor, but we went in expecting a
harder game,” Kelly Rennick said. “The score was not telling of the game. It was not a 4-1 game and
I don’t quite know how to explain it.”

Clemson grabbed two goals in the first three minutes of play. Early in the second minute, Sara Burkett converted a
penalty kick for the Tigers. Less than a minute later Burkett played a corner into a crowd at the goal-mouth.
The ball slipped past Noznesky into the back corner of the goal, giving Clemson a 2-0 lead. In the 12th
minute, Amy Kanoff knocked a restart to the backside of the goal where Rennick headed it home to bring the
score to 2-1. They connected in a similar fashion for the game-tying goal in the team’s season-opening win over South
Carolina.

“Crosses are something I worked on a lot in high school,” Kanoff said. “We’ve never had such an exceptional player
in the air as Kelly (Rennick). We work on that in practice. We’ve both found our strengths.”

But Clemson put the lead back at two when Keller scored in the 31st minute off a cross from Jennifer
Crawford. The ball got past Noznesky, and Keller was able to collect it, beat a would-be tackler, and play the
ball into an empty net. With 50 seconds remaining, Clemson got another goal to complete the scoring.

“This was a very competitive match. Davidson got in a bind quickly, but they never stopped plugging away and made
it a very competitive match. That’s nice to see from our standpoint,” center referee Joe Morgalis said.

“We were beaten by two top ten teams this week,” Hundley said. “But we scored legitimate goals against them, and
played with them even for long stretches, even when their starters were playing. Now we’ve got to figure out how
to play as a group for 90 minutes and get a little lucky. We have two more chances against teams
of that caliber at N.C. State (Sept. 30) and UNC Greensboro (Oct. 2).”

By CARO REYNOLDS

Field hockey triumphs with penalty stroke

Staff Writer

On a penalty stroke, Davidson freshman KateSchoening scored the only goal of Sunday’s away game to defeat archrival App. St.
“App. St. lives, eats, breathes, and dreams to beat us,” head coach Betsy Pryor said in August. The Mountaineers will
have to keep dreaming until Oct. 27 when the two teams rematch on the Wildcats’ turf. One of Pryor’s preseason
concerns was playing on artificial turf, which is quicker than grass. This weekend’s game proved that her team can play
at their best on any surface, even though this game was on turf. A new rule this season eliminates off-sides
penalties. It is intended to quicken play even more and increase scoring. “Forwards can just camp out next to the
goal now and wait for the ball,” Erin Smith commented on the new rule. The strategy of the defense has
changed now that the offense is always poised to shoot. Captain Mary Dowd and goalkeeper Sara Gebhardt anchored Davidson’s defense,
keeping App. St. scoreless. Then, toward the end of the game, Laura Rosenbach was fouled by the Appalachian goalie in
the circle, letting Schoening take the shot on goal that won the game. “This was a huge win because it
determines rankings for the postseason Deep South Tournament. We’re number one right now,” Pryor said.

Keeping up with Jones’ knee
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

Maryville, Tenn. - Big tight end Wes Jones went down with a knee injury in the fourth quarter and didn’t
return. X-rays revealed no fracture, but he will have an MRI today to determine whether there is any ligament damage.
“It’s really sore. I kind of buckled it under when I was blocking,” said Jones yesterday. He added that he
didn’t hear the characteristic pop of an ACL tear. “He was a real factor in the first half,” said Maryville
coach Phil Wilks of Jones. “He was really manhandling our outside linebacker.”

Volleyball stumped in invitational
By Drew WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The volleyball team must have had a serious case of déjà vu as they left Belk Arena Saturday night. Last
weekend in Memphis the Wildcats lost four games, and this weekend they dropped another four, with losses against Mercer, UNC
Wilmington, Radford, and Wake Forest in the Davidson Classic to fall to 2-9. The Wildcat woes began against Mercer on
Friday afternoon. Leading 7-1 in the first game, the Wildcats couldn’t hold onto the lead and wound up losing 15-13.
The second game was a loss, 15-9, and the third game ended in a heartbreaking 16-14 defeat. “We had a
lot of great effort, but we just couldn’t finish,” said coach Radford. “We have to stay encouraged, and the finishing
part will come.” Friday night’s match versus UNC Wilmington lasted four games, with L.A. Bumgarner and Janet Duncan teaming up
for 23 kills, and freshman Ginny Quis leading the team with 25 assists. Saturday’s match pitted the Wildcats against Radford.
The Highlanders defeated the Wildcats 15-8, 15-4, 15-2. In the nightcap against Wake Forest, the Wildcats were again beaten in
three quick games. “We are not the type of team that is going to get down on ourselves,” said junior
co-captain L.A. Bumgarner, “and you can already see a huge improvement over last year’s team.”

Flickerball Standings through 9/8/96

Men’s League
Division 1
Team’s Name Wins Losses
2nd Cannon 1 0
Basement Rich 1 0
Kool and the Gang 1 0
3rd Cannon 0 1
Rusk 0 1
1st Rich 0 1

Results:
2nd Cannon forfeit Rusk
K&G 13 3rd Cannon 0
Basement Rich 6 1st Rich 0

Division 2
4th Rich 1 0
The Cubby Bunnies 1 0
2nd Rich 0 0
The Woohas 0 0
Connor 0 1
The Wildthang 0 1

Results:
4th Rich 26 The Wildthang 0
C.B. 6 Connor 0
The Wookies 28 W.H. 26
2nd Rich 0 The Woohas 0

Women’s League
Division 1
Team’s Name Wins Losses
BOB 1 0
Cold Beer 0 0
Go Deep 0 0
KA 0 0
PIKA 0 0
Rugmunchers 0 0

Results:
BOB 27 En Fuego 20

Division 2
The Beef Curtains 1 0
Ole Ole 1 0
The Wookies 1 0
Waffle House 0 1
1st Little 0 1
Vinnie and the Boyz 0 1

Results:
B.C. 34 1st Little 13
Ole Ole 6 W.N. 0

Manager for the women’s basketball team
Interested? Contact Jennifer Roos at x2087

Have a happy day.
WRITE SPORTS
Call Mike (6231) or Will (6126)
