OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1996

The first week of school is an exciting time for most students. Old friends reunite and laugh over each other’s accounts of their delinquent summer adventures, atrocious internships, and failed relationships. But when I returned to Davidson in August, my acquaintances greeted me not with smiles, but with frowns of remorse — even pity. At first, I didn’t know quite what to think. Perhaps they didn’t like my hair or my tan. (I had all sorts of hypotheses.) Curious as ever, I asked a friend what the heck was going on.

“You’re just not the same,” he said.

“Whatever do you mean?” I inquired.

“You’ve lost him!” he said, pointing to my slim stomach. Lifting up my shirt, I realized my terrible mistake. There was nothing there! Nothing at all! Belly was gone! A strenuous summer exercise program coupled with a sensible diet (food not produced on Patterson Court) had killed Belly. My friends, as long as they had known me, had never seen me without him. In the absence of Belly, I just wasn’t cool.

The months of August through October were anything but fun. I woke up every morning knowing that Belly was dead, and it made me sick to think about it. At night I would toss and turn, remembering all the fun we used to have with him — shaking him, squeezing him, punching him, making him dance. The good old days were over, though, and I couldn’t help but feel guilty about killing such an integral part of myself. A social outcast, I would sit in the corner at parties, talking to random people about marathons, calorie counts, or fat grams. Yep, I was a tool and everybody knew it. I hated myself, and everybody hated me.

I will never forget October 18th, maybe the greatest day of my life. After a quick morning shower, I grabbed a pair of my oversized shorts and slid them over my boxers. Then, with one hand I held the shorts up, while my other searched in the closet for my belt, without which my shorts would surely fall down to my ankles. For some reason or another, the grip on my shorts released as I was fumbling through the closet. To my complete amazement, the shorts stopped and dangled around my waist! I knew right at this very moment that God was on my side. Belly was alive! All this time I thought I had lost him. To find out that he had been hanging on to his dear existence for such a long time made his discovery all the more special. I hugged him right then and there, and I promised him I would never, ever, let him leave my sight again.

Today, Belly and I are leading quite a good life. I feed him several times a day, making sure I eat extra things (donuts are his favorite) to make sure he is happy. My friends have all gotten around to liking me again — this only after I showed them Belly. They had missed the old me, they told me, and they were glad to see him back. “It’ll never happen again,” I assured them, rubbing Belly in sublime satisfaction.

The moral to this very true story might be more meaningful than you think. I urge you to come up with your own, for I feel there are some things better left unsaid. In retrospect, I can only offer one bit of advice: Be kind to yourself, but most importantly, be kind to your belly.

Nina Blount - Patterns

After being at Davidson for three and a half years, one begins to notice certain patterns that repeat themselves daily, weekly, or even yearly. For example: there will always be a religious scandal in the spring. You could set your clock by the furor that will scorch these very opinions pages beginning in March; you just wait. Other patterns, however, can be observed just by sitting still somewhere on campus and watching people. Girls will always check themselves out as they walk by the mirror in the union cafe. Boys will always check their zippers as they walk out of the bathroom in the Commons. You can find at least one sheet hanging out of a Belk window at all times. Seniors drive everywhere. Chambers looks a lot bigger when you’re walking in to take an exam. People from the South are proud; people from the North don’t get it; and people from New Jersey seek each other out. 75% of freshman girls have their first experience with alcohol at Davidson, and sometimes it can get ugly. Freshman boys look like hell for most of spring semester because senior boys make them get up at 3 a.m. and come turn the television off in Ryburn. All PiKA sophomores and juniors hook up at senior women’s champagne party, and any Warner Hall girls who want to hook up at senior men’s party. In the spring, seniors all love each other and just want to hook up with everyone they see. They spend...Most of the semester just celebrating that their colloquium paper is finished. Girls in Rich hang out at PiKA. Girls down the hill hang out at SAE. Girls in the senior apartments hang out in the apartment next door or below them. Soccer players wear a lot of corduroy. No matter how much work you have, there is someone out there who is willing to tell you that they have more. Some people use CHAL to check out books, some people use it to check out who else is in the 'braire. Teachers have an amazing way of assigning things to be due at the same time, and then saying things like "you guys don’t know how easy you have it, you guys are just spoiled." Awesome... thanks. Weeks come and go, and semesters do too, but there are things that have been around longer than we have, and will continue to be here after we are gone. They should just make it part of orientation to teach us how far behind us someone has to be before we don’t have to hold the door of Chambers for them.

For a good time writing call Kristen @2148

Greg Garrison

Raising Unconsciousness

You know, sometimes it might seem like the injustices of this world are enough to crush a person. The Yankees win the World Series, a certain North Carolina senator is re-elected over and over again, and the musical genius Jimmy Buffett goes his entire career without winning a single award. If you can’t stand the unfairness of the world, then by gosh, by gum, and by golly, you should do something about it. A quick and easy way to feel like you’re changing things is to start your own consciousness-raising campaign. Pick your favorite axe, grind it in front of Chambers, and invite others to grind it with you. Taking this literally will make things terribly interesting for everyone who walks by, so please don’t dismiss this language as being pure metaphor. Here are a couple of examples of campaigns to give you some ideas:

If you want to make people conscious of the prevalence of hunger, publicly announce a two-or-three day fast to empathize with hungry people. When everyone sees a couple dozen activists fasting, they will realize that at the end of the fast, the activists will have a good meal, whereas starving people will not. Your mission, therefore, will be accomplished.

If homelessness bothers you and you think that no one at Davidson cares about the homeless, then host a huge sleep-out in a public place—Chambers lawn, for example—to make people think about those who have to sleep outside. When people see young, good-looking college students sleeping on the cold ground, all wrapped up in their J. Crew winter coats and Eddie Bauer sleeping bags, they will learn a valuable lesson: They will surely say, “Hellfire, it must suck to be homeless, since these people will be able to go back to their dorms in the morning, shower, and put on fresh clothes, when real homeless people don’t have squat to keep them warm at night and really don’t have the option of sleeping inside the next night.” Now, where I come from, we call this “camping,” and you might be thinking that that’s exactly what it is. That’s not exactly true, though. If you decide simply to sleep outside, it’s camping, but if you put up flyers about it and make a big enough fuss, you can call it “consciousness raising.”

If you like the idea of starting your own campaign, but you can’t think of a theme for it, here’s one that hasn’t been used yet: “Making the Community Conscious of the Fact that Maybe the Community Doesn’t Want Its Consciousness Raised” or “I Just Want to Make Everyone Aware that I Don’t Want My Awareness Raised Anymore.”

If you’re an active reader, then at this point, you might be saying, “Greg, how dare you laugh at the well-intentioned people who try to raise consciousness? What unmitigated gall!” My response is this: What the hell is unmitigated gall? I’ve never heard of unmitigated arrogance, or obnoxiousness, or even happiness, but plenty of people say “unmitigated gall.” I’ve also never heard anyone say “mitigated gall.” On top of that, I’ve heard of mitigating circumstances, but I’ve never heard of unmitigated circumstances.

Why, why, why? “Greg,” I’m sure you’re saying, “what in the world are you talking about? Consciousness-raising campaigns about not raising consciousness, mitigated gall, unmitigated circumstances? This is all meaningless.” My response to this is, “Yes it is, but meaninglessness can be awfully fun sometimes, don’t you think?”

So whoever you are and wherever you roam, I can only leave you one last piece of advice to deal with your feelings of anger and frustration at injustice and unfairness. Lighten up, smile when you can, watch Bugs Bunny at least once a week, and buddy up with José C, a saltshaker, and a couple of limes. Chew a little Juicy Fruit; it’s good for your soul.