THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1996

CHI RHO GOES IT ALONE
A capella singing group entertains students
By Jay Hupson
Staff Writer

Last Thursday evening Chi-Rho, a male a capella singing group, performed in the Morrison Room of the college union. The group, named after the Greek letters chi and rho, is a Christian singing group hailing from Wake Forest University. The concert was fairly short, lasting only about forty-five minutes, but their melodious voices and great musical ability left the audience awestruck and longing for more. The twelve-member choir consists mainly of non-music majors; only one of the twelve men was a music minor.

Chi-Rho performed a diverse repertoire, consisting of spirituals, doo-wop, and pop tunes. Besides singing, the group entertained the audience by creating chickens out of dishrags and a variety of musical jokes and vocal outbursts. Usually, an a capella choir consists of basses, baritones, tenors, and sometimes countertenors. Countertenors are the highest male singing part and are the equivalent of males singing an alto or soprano vocal part. Chi-Rho consisted only of basses, baritones, and tenors. The most important parts to any piece are usually the highest parts. In this case, they were the tenor part and the bass part. The tenors usually provide the melody, and the basses provide the foundation for the chords.

A capella choirs are also usually very improvisational. Even though each vocal part is set, the performer is at liberty to elaborate upon his part and slightly alter the vocal line. At the beginning of the impromptu concert, the twelve men ran into the room and broke into song. The first selection was reminiscent of doo-wop tunes and scat singing. Scat singing is when the soloist sings in an improvisational style, creating a melody out of seemingly random syllables. Scat singing is used fairly frequently by jazz singers. Throughout the tune, the soloist sang in this scat style with interspersed words and phrases while the rest of the group formed the underlying harmony and chords.

The group also sang several spiritual selections. The spirituals that they performed relied completely upon the soloist to provide the melodic line, and the backup parts provided the chord progression. The spirituals that they performed were particularly somber and emotional. Chi-Rho’s beautiful singing allowed the audience to feel the power and true beauty of these tunes.

The performers also sang several pop tunes, including “Longest Time” and “The Lion Sleeps Tonight.” Before they sang “Longest Time,” they dedicated it to all of the women in the audience. Even though their jokes and attempts at humor were rather contrived, the group performed magnificently and were extremely impressive. Throughout the entire concert, the members of the choir blended together beautifully. The balance in the group was incredible; no one part predominated in any of their songs. The acoustics of the room were not conducive to singing, but the ensemble overcame that with their beautiful voices.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS FOUND GUILTY OF "BEING DORKY"...share Q] Haku poetry students were spotted with take-home exams and laptop computers at the beachfront. Sergeant Phil Meupp, who followed the students throughout the day, was quoted as saying: "Later that evening I even saw the group share a Shirley Temple and reportedly engage in readings and a vacation-long game of Dungeons and Dragons." 

San Padre Island, TX, March 9th. Four Davidson students are at the county hospital after colliding with each other while beachcombing the shores with metal detectors. 

Lake Havasu, AZ, March 8th. Davidson fraternity members returned home early from spring break. Kappa Kappa Rho's from USC told reporters that Davidson's boat was shunned from the lake after the Smith Travel Co. of Nashville for $2,200 because the aquatic portion of their spring break package did not include water wings, kick boards, or swim bubbles. STC's attorney Rod Guzzina quipped that: "Those guys are such wuss-bags."

Take a Joke! Watch Burly Bear Network on DC-TV Channel 14 weekdays @12 noon and 10pm to midnight, Sat; and Sun, at noon. 

Music in two hours or less— COMPILED BY WILL FOY

Monday, April 29
Cat’s Cradle (Chapel Hill): Let’s Go Bowling
Double Door (Charlotte): Les Moore and Friends

Tuesday, April 30
Be Here Now (Asheville): CoCo Montoya Blues Band
Ziggy’s (Winston-Salem): Misfits w/ Sheer Terror & Sardonica

Wednesday, May 1
Cat’s Cradle: Blood Loss
Double Door: Black Hole Radio w/ Mercury Dawn
Elbow Room (Columbia): Uncle Mingo
Jack Straw’s (Charlotte): Stir

Thursday, May 2
Be Here Now: Vigilantes of Love
Double Door: Occasional Saints
Elbow Room: Gibb Droll Band
Jack Straw’s: Vertical Horizon
Tremont Music Hall (Charlotte): Ruby w/ Stoom
Ziggy’s: Toadies w/ CIV & Brutal Juice

Friday, May 3
Be Here Now: Vertical Horizon
Cat’s Cradle: Geezer Lake w/ Johnnykind
Double Door: Tinsley Ellis Band
Elbow Room: Self
Jack Straw’s: Seconds Flat
Ziggy’s: Running From Anna

Saturday, May 4
Be Here Now (early show): Jonathan Edwards
Be Here Now (late show): Jump, Little Children
Cat’s Cradle: Meteors w/ Candy Snatchers
Double Door: Tinsley Ellis Band
Jack Straw’s: Granger
Ziggy’s: Leftover Salmon

Sunday, May 5
Cat’s Cradle: Fred Schneider’s New Band
Double Door: Les Moore @ Open Stage Night

Dance from page 11
capable of a wide range of styles.” A glance at the program confirms this, listing music by Seal, Tori Amos, John Philip Sousa, and Mozart. Dance Troupe shows also tend to incorporate plenty of elements other than dance. In “Beyond Facades,” Ronnie Klein, Brian Luskey, and Hayes Trotter punctuated the dance scenes with choreographed juggling acts, and Jennifer Hankins delivered a dramatic reading of the lyrics to Tori Amos’s “Professional Widow.” Other shows have included such diverse elements as poetry readings, Classical music, and dramatic monologues. The group has also experimented with longer pieces; earlier this year, in a departure from their usual dance pieces, the group produced “Peter and the Wolf,” choreographed by Troupe member Carrie Harris. The proceeds from this show supported the community service projects of the Ada Jenkins Center.

OW & Domestic Destinations Cheap!! IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE PRICES START YOUR OWN DAMN AIRLINE. info@aerotech.com Aur-Tech, Ltd. 212/219-7000 http://campus.net/aerotech