THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING

O'Connor fiddles around
World-class violinist visits Blumenthal Arts Center

By Greg Garrison
Editorial Cartoonist

There are few artists of our time that can truly be called virtuosi. This weekend, at the Blumenthal Performing Arts Center, I had the great privilege of seeing one of them play with the Charlotte Pops. Friday night, Mark O’Connor wowed the audience with a two-and-a-half hour spectacle of foot-tapping, mind-blowing fiddle playing. His selections ranged from bluegrass to jazz and from blues to classical. He slipped from one style into another with perfect ease and a grace that elicited thunderous applause, cheers, and multiple standing ovations from the amazed audience. His stage presence was shy and soft-spoken, and his apparent humility impressed me almost as much as his playing.

O’Connor was born in Seattle, Washington on August 5, 1961, and started playing music as a child, winning his first contest, a classical/flamenco guitar competition at the University of Washington, at age ten. He began playing the fiddle at 11, and within three weeks, he was playing square dances. Within seven months, he was winning national fiddle competitions, and by the time he graduated from high school, he had won every major fiddle competition in America and recorded four albums. When he was 17, O’Connor went on tour with Dave Grisman and Stephane Grappelli, both jazz giants. He then began a career as a studio musician, and between 1984 and 1990, he became the most in-demand violin player in Nashville and made over 450 recordings with several artists, including James Taylor, Paul Simon, Willie Nelson, Randy Travis, and Chet Atkins.

He has recorded six critically acclaimed solo albums on Warner Brothers. In 1991, ’92, ’93, ’94, and ’95, the young fiddle master won the Country Music Association’s “Musician of the Year.” He has also won eight awards from the Academy of Country Music. In 1992, he won a Grammy for his New Nashville Cats album, and since then he has been nominated for two other Grammys. Recently, he was listed in Esquire’s list of outstanding men and women under 40 who are changing America. After seeing him perform, I can certainly understand why. His lightning-fast fingering and emotionally powerful bowing were complemented well by the Symphony. At one point in the show, he finished a long solo, and I realized that I had been holding my breath for at least a minute. His range and skill worked together perfectly to create a sound at once beautiful and awe-inspiring.

The concert was part of the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra’s Pops series, and there were performances on Friday and Saturday. Tickets ranged from 15 to 50 dollars, but the Symphony has a program called the “Student Rush” in which a student with a valid ID can come to the box office within an hour of the show and get any remaining ticket in the house for eight dollars. For information concerning future performances of the Symphony, call 332-6136.

College Kitchen
Stuff your face with stuffed mushrooms
By Jay Shultz & Ros Kosicki

Alan Ware gets down to bring up your Monday blues in Jumpin’ Java perks you up in the Outpost.8 p.m. - 12 a.m. Coffeehouse makes you feel like you’re in a Folger’s commercial in the 900 Room.

8 a.m. - 11 a.m. Teaching as Performance/Performance as Teaching with Fern Davye on the teaching methods of the future. Ask where at the Union Desk.

4 p.m. Joseph P. Newhouse, Professor of Health Policy and Management at Harvard, speaks on “Incentives Behind Healthcare” in Chambers Gallery.

5 p.m. An Evening With Fern Davye: Contemporary International Women’s Poetry. Poet Fern Davye makes poetry a performance art in the 900 Room.

7:30 p.m. - 10 p.m. Junior Class Social — bonding enforced? in the Big Screen Room.

10 p.m. - 11 p.m. Twenty-One Year Old Night relieves all tension and worry in the 900 Room.

10:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. WOSANL in the Big Screen Room.

7 p.m. - 8 p.m. 7th Seal runs in the 900 Room.

9:30 p.m. - 11 p.m. “Women Around the World” share their cultures in the Crop.

Lunch is yummy in your tummy in the 900 Room.

11 a.m. - 2 p.m. Allen Buchanan speaks on “Healthcare Economics: Managed Care” in Chambers Gallery.

7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Poet Michael Hoffman reads from K.S. in Lakeland and Corona, Corona in the 900 Room.

7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. Jumpin’ Java boasts women’s poetry and lots of other stuff, too, in the Outpost.

8 p.m. - 12 a.m. AVGSINHL Room.

5:30 p.m. - 7 p.m. Coffee House.

9 p.m. 7th Seal shows in the 900 Room.

8 p.m. - 10 p.m. Jumpin’ Java celebrates at the Outpost.

2 p.m. - 6 p.m. Women’s Issues Potluck peaks your interests in the 900 Room.

Tom Eure, Jr. strums some folky rhythms at Cosmic Chefs-in-Residence.

Step on a Crack is a children’s play worth seeing at the Black Box Theatre at 7:30 p.m.

Today we have decided to provide a recipe for a most delectable appetizer. These stuffed mushrooms are an excellent start to many of the entrees we have previously provided in our weekly article. They can also serve as a tasty late-night snack. They are very easy to make and you can make enough to put some in the freezer for a later date. For this recipe you will need:

Bach Aria Group, the only group in the world that exclusively studies and performs Bach, flaunts their talent in DCPC 8 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.

Truly Loves Me, a German film addressing aging, death, and AIDS, plays in Perkins Auditorium 1 p.m. - 3 p.m., and costs $2. Maggie McCarthy will lead the discussion following the film.

2 dozen large mushrooms
1/2 cup soy sauce
1/2 lb. ground beef
1/4 cup minced green pepper
2 tablespoons bread crumbs
1 egg yolk
1 tablespoon minced onion
1/2 clove garlic, minced
1/4 tsp. salt
1/4 tsp. pepper

Step on a Crack plays again in the Black Box at 2 p.m.

NCAA Playoffs in the 900 Room 9 p.m. - 11:30 p.m. Do you really want to watch them?

Henry Ackerman, ‘64, executive of Associated Press, reads his poetry and gives the Charles E. Lloyd Award for Non-Fiction Writing in the 900 Room 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.

Remove stems from mushrooms and marinate the caps in soy sauce for 1 hour. Finely chop stems and mix with all remaining ingredients. Drain caps and stuff with meat mixture, mounded high. Brush tops with soy sauce and broil 8 to 10 minutes. Place any leftovers in the freezer. When hungry, defrost and bake 8 to 10 minutes at 350° F.

Until we cook again...

DC Brass Quintet jams in Hodson Hall 8 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.