SPORTS MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1996

Things looking up for volleyball
By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

With a whistle, the women’s volleyball team stopped their scrimmage, fell into a confusing fit of suicides, then re-positioned themselves just as suddenly, resuming play.

“There is a positive energy surrounding this team that will rub off on the audience,” head coach Lisa Radford said. “There is not one person who can take up the spot (left by last year’s lone senior and multiple record holder Michelle Augustin), but everyone is taking a piece of the loss. Now is the beginning. These girls have a lot of hope and drive, and they expect to win.”

With a strong returning corps of players led by junior outside hitter Lois Ann Bumgarner and the arrival of six talented freshmen, Radford is understandably excited.

“I’m expecting high things from everyone, especially the younger players,” captain Ami Bondurant said. “I think they’ll all step up and play important roles. This is a very strong team. Davidson has never seen anything like this before.”

The younger players bring height to the squad. While no junior or senior stands over 5’9”, the sophomore class has two experienced players over 6’ in Jamil Sawyer and Janet Duncan, last season’s leading blocker. And three rookies, Jennifer Oxenfeld, Lindsay Patterson, and Gina Lawrence, stand over 6’ with Leslie Carbone at 5'11".

“Height is always good,” Radford allowed. “Teams are getting taller and taller, but height is not always better. One of our strongest hitters is 5’9” (Bumgarner). It’s a combination of being smart, powerful, and well-conditioned, but the height will help.”

“You can’t teach height,” assistant coach Chris Willis joked.

The team has not yet discussed any season goals, but there is a contagious optimism about the upcoming season.

“We have 15 players who are incredible and can come in on any given day at any given time. That’s nice. The freshmen are great. Everyone will be able to relax a bit and go in and out, instead of playing every game like last year,” Bumgarner said.

“We just did a ropes course and some group training. It’s really neat how everyone brings something special and it pushes you in practice more, and everyone tries to make the team better,” said Duncan. “The speed of the offense has picked up. Expect great things from us because we’re expecting them from ourselves.”

Football looks to turn corner
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

Football, the only non-Division I-A team on campus, has never been a glamour sport at Davidson. Since 1969, when the Wildcats notched a school-record seven wins and earned a trip to the Tangerine Bowl, Davidson football teams have compiled a 71-181-3 mark (.392). But after last year’s frustrating 1-8-1 season, change is in the air.

Five of last fall’s eight losses were by a touchdown or less and the three others were to regional powers Emory and Henry (Va.), Randolph-Macon (Va.), and Centre (Ky.).

The Wildcats lost three of last year’s top five tacklers to graduation in Will Robinson, James Cassidy, and Bo Bartholomew, but nine defensive players who started at least one game last year return, as does virtually the entire offense.

“(Head) Coach (Tim Landis) was very pleased with how everyone reported to camp,” said senior A.R. Barrington, who will co-captain this year’s team along with classmate John Cowan. “We’re going to have a much better team this year.”

“In the grand scheme of things we’re still young, but I would like to see us turn the corner,” added Landis last week. “We’re going to make strides this year.”

Literally. Because of a revamped...Off-season workout regimen, this year’s squad has thirty players who run sub-4.8 40-yard dashes. When Landis took over the program in 1993, that number was four. So the coaching staff has switched the Davidson defensive formation to a Stunt 4-3, a system made famous by the Pittsburgh Steelers’ Steel Curtain defense in the ‘70s that emphasizes quickness and movement over size. But the graduation of Bartholomew, Cassidy, Matt Eckert, and Keith Davis coupled with the loss of Mike Lassiter (quit) leaves the Wildcats depleted on the line of scrimmage. 

“We’re real thin on the offensive and defensive lines,” said Landis. “But not because of talent, just numbers.” Many of the linemen will be forced to perform double duty. But what the Wildcats lack on the lines, they more than make up for at the skill positions. Tommy Dugan and Clif Henry, who shared quarterbacking duties last year, will again vie for the starting nod. They will be throwing to an experienced receiving corps. Kirk Roberts, last year’s leading pass-catcher (34 receptions for 335 yards), Wes Jones, Mike Harrington, and Pete Perri will be the top targets. Sophomore Lorenzo Moll, whose team-leading 524 yards broke the rookie rushing record, will again lead the ground game. 

“I don’t see any reason we can’t win every game this year,” said senior special teams ace Chris Currie. "Our goal is always 10-0," Cowan added. "There's not a ballgame we can't win this year." The team is better and the players know it. Another sub-.500 performance would be a letdown. And if the offensive and defensive lines can stay injury-free and the team can cut back on turnovers, penalties, and mental errors (three major reasons the Wildcats stumbled in so many close games last year), 5-5 or 6-4 would be very reachable. 

"We're still a couple of years away from being where we think we can be. It won’t happen overnight, but I’m excited," said Landis. "There’s more light at the end of the tunnel."

September 1
September 7
September 8
September 11
September 18
September 24
October 3
October 9
October 18
October 25
October 27

Network! 1350-WHEP

FOLLOW DAVIDSON SOCCER ALL SEASON LONG ON THE DAVIDSON RADIO NETWORK!

When you can't come to a Wildcat soccer match because you're studying for that Biochem final, you can still follow the Cats on the Davidson Radio Network. Join former Davidson All Southern Conference soccer player Matt Speer with expert analysis and Frank Santore with the exciting play-by-play of Wildcat soccer on WHIP, 1350 on your AM dial in Mooresville, or on your television set with the radio audio on Prestige Cable Channel 22. Save the following Wildcat soccer radio schedule for 1996:

Also, if you're away from campus for the weekend or on a class assignment, you can tune in to the Cats anywhere you're by a telephone in the world thanks to TEAMLINE. Just dial 1-800-846-4700 and the Cats' team code of 1143, then follow the instructions for the exciting play-by-play (the cost of the call is charged to your Mastercard or Visa).

5:30 pm (broadcast time) SOUTH CAROLINA
RADFORD 7:30 pm
WINTHROP 5:30 pm
CITADEL 5:45 pm
at Appalachian State 7:00 pm
UNC-G 5:45 pm
at Duke 6:30 pm
NORTH CAROLINA 5:45 pm
at Furman TBA
GA. SOUTHERN TBA
at UNCC TBA

Plus any NCAA post-season action in which the Cats are involved.

Your Ticket to 1-800-846-4700

We at Gino Communications hope to see you at every Davidson soccer match at America's Palace of College Soccer, Richardson Field. When you can't be there—or even when you are there—be sure to follow the Cats on the Davidson Radio Network.

Davidson Wildcats * Access Code 1143