DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1996

15

Hoops squads kick offseason - Fall intramural champions crowned

A rose by any other name would smell as sweet

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

The men’s basketball team opened its exhibition season on Wednesday night in Belk Arena, losing to the Global Sports All-Stars,
97-92.

“We played a hot-shooting team (61% three-pointers), a team of college graduates,” said head coach Bob McKillop. “It certainly exposed
us in terms of what we need to work on. But it also highlighted some of the things that we’re
capable of doing.”

Forward Narcisse Ewodo led all scorers with 27 points and two-guard Mark Donnelly added 18 on 4-of-8 shooting from behind
the arc.

Freshman power forward Landry Kosmalski sparkled in his debut, tallying 14 points and 12 rebounds.

The women’s basketball team closed its exhibition season with a win on Sunday at Belk Arena, topping Fort Bragg, 74-63.

“It was a much better effort than last Saturday (a 70-59 loss to the Smokey Mountain Swarm),” said head coach
John Filar. “But we have to get hungrier defensively, we let up too many boards, and we’ve got to cut
down on turnovers. Turnovers and boards are going to be the two things we’re really going to have to improve
upon.”

Center Jennie Vanlerberghe led the Wildcats, notching 14 points and grabbing 7 rebounds.

Rookie Katy Kamp tallied 13 points and Carolyn Kirsch and Jessica Montrella each added a dozen.

Kerry Brown made an auspicious return from an ankle injury, recording 8 points, 4 rebounds, and 4 assists in 25
minutes.

As we all know, the best thing about fall (next to football and hunting) is the chance to pull out
our favorite sweaters.

Come on, admit it. It’s hard to beat a cracklin’ fire, a cup of cocoa and a favorite wool or
cotton sweater.

That’s why Harold's has dozens of new wool and cotton favorites.

V-necks, roll necks, vests and more. All versatile enough to go with anything from chinos to jeans to dress pants.
Perfect for those long walks with the labs on Sunday.

The OSCC fall sweater, Perfected by the Old School and found exclusively at Specialty Shops on The Park, Charlotte.

To receive Harold’s free men's and ladies’ catalogs, call 1.800.676.5373

Actual styles may vary from those shown here. Quantities limited.

By BOB LONNERGAN
Staff Writer

While anyone could argue about who has the best name, no one can question the Rugmunchers’, Wookies’, 2nd Cannon’s, Taco
Salad’s, and Basement Belk Bureau’s claims to being the best teams in their respective sports.

Captained by Tripp Cherry and composed mostly of sophomores and their former hall counselor Jonathan Coulombe from 3rd West Belk
last year, the Rugmunchers completed a rare feat in flickerball. After winning the freshman championship last year, the guys decided
to stick together and go against the tougher competition in A league. They breezed through the regular season and went
undefeated in the playoffs, defeating Josh Becker’s independent team, BOB, 32-27, to claim their second title.

The Wookies were champions of the freshmen halls. Captained by Scott Herr, 3rd East defeated 2nd Little in the championship
game, 25-12. The big breakthrough for them in the postseason could have been against the regular season champions, the Beef
Curtains (3rd Little). After finishing second in the regular season to the Beef Curtains, the Wookies squeaked by them, 34-32,
and then cruised the rest of the way.

The women’s league could be described in one phrase: Smash mouth football. Defense dominated and points were scarce. In the
eleven games in the winner’s bracket, the losing team never scored a point. Only once did a team score more
than 14 and that was done by eventual champion, 2nd Cannon. Captained by Susanne Tranguch, they went undefeated in the
regular season and continued the trend through postseason play. Kool and Gang, captained by Emily Eagan, posed the biggest challenge,
but 2nd Cannon conquered them 13-0 in the finals.

In 3-on-3 basketball Taco Salad finished in third place during the regular season. But, Will Bradshaw, Bob Lonergan, Austin Rutledge,
Johnathan Sipling, and Trey Wilson stepped up their play, taking out previously unbeaten Gumbo twice in the playoffs. Taco Salad
got an early lead on Gumbo in the championship and cruised to a 21-13 win.

In the freshman league, it came down to two teams. Basement Belk Bureau and the Punching Clowns both went undefeated
in the regular season. But, the Bureau overcame the Clowns in the end. Patrick Daymond, Chuck Haines, Mark Jones, Travis
Pritchett, and Aaron Snethen won two close games against the Clowns to become champions of the freshmen halls.

In the inaugural tennis tournament, Brian Woodward and Anna Fenton-Hathaway took the honors in the men’s and women’s divisions. Woodward
dismissed Andy Kazama 6-0, 6-0 in the championship match, but he almost did not make it that far having to
battle past Ray Liguori 4-6, 7-5, 6-0 to advance to the tournament finals. Fenton-Hathaway had an easier time, dropping just
six games on the way to the title, defeating Michelle Markey 6-2 in the finals.

And Morgan Camp took the honors in the first racquetball tournament ever. Camp defeated Ryan Moore in the finals, 15-8,
15-8, to claim the championship. In addition, Jeff Waldman capped off an impressive string of five victories defeating Jack Morse,
15-6, 15-9, in the finals of the consolation bracket.

MASTER OF SCIENCE IN ACCOUNTANCY

Cameron School of Business

Public Accounting Information Systems Not-for-Profit

* Class sizes are small and you can complete the program in ten to thirteen months.
* Classes begin:

August 21, 1997 for Accounting Undergraduates
May 27, 1997 for Non-Accounting Undergraduates

* AACSB Accredited

For Applications and Information

(910) 962-3
