THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, APRIL 22, 1996 15

The Sports Authority

Life is sport, drink it up

By Davin Mortlock
Sports Columnist

Oh how true this Gatorade commercial rings. Goals, competition, success, failure, determination, drive, obstacles. These represent only a few of
the many characteristics that mesh together to create such a unique bond. Yet the line between life and sports is
hard to define. Too much of one thing is bad for another, and too little of one thing might also
be bad. Or it might be good. And it is these boundaries that every athlete in sports, and every person
in life, must determine in order to succeed.

Yet the key to this catchy Gatorade ad is that once you accept that such a coexistence between life and
sports is metaphysically present, and whether or not your boundaries are clearly defined, then it is necessary to “Drink it
Up.” While Quaker Oats Inc. is trying to convince people to “Drink Gatorade Up” they have unintentionally created an alternate
and more important message, “Drink Life Up.”

But one can’t do so without understanding the connection made in the commercial’s first line: “Life is a Sport.” Because
it is sports that teach one how to deal with life’s characteristics. How to work with other people. How to
work alone. How to deal with opponents, pressure, discipline, obstacles, goals, defeat, and success. It is sports that teach how
to Drink Life Up.

But what makes sports so special is that it also takes you away from life. Time spent playing basketball, baseball,
tennis, golf, swimming, or even riding a horse or playing cards represents an escape from life’s natural stress. Yet a
healthy escape because they don’t make us lose control of mind or body. So while sports allow us to forget
about life for a short period of time, they also reinvigorate hope and confidence.

The problem with sports is that for most of us, they are not a natural gift. And as we become
adults, it becomes more difficult to begin or continue. We become more aware of our weaknesses. Playing with people who
are much better than you is a humbling and often intimidating experience. An experience that causes people to turn away
from sports. But while this is happening, life doesn’t get any less complicated and the mysteries that surround it aren’t
suddenly solved.

So don’t turn sports away. Don’t be intimidated. Don’t give up. Go out there and play. Play anything. Sweat, struggle,
learn. Life is about sports. Drink It Up.

Power-packed Quattlebaum bombs away

By Michael Kruse
Assistant Sports Editor

Hard-hitting third baseman Gus Quattlebaum boasts a rich baseball background. A product of Andover (Mass.) Little League, one of the
state’s traditional baseball bastions, and a three-year letterman at Andover’s Phillips Academy, he garnered All-New England honors as a junior
and senior. During his three-year MVP American Legion career, Andover lost four games.

“Andover has always had strong baseball. That’s shaped me into the player that I am today,” said Quattlebaum, “We had
some great coaching, from Little League on up. I think it’s paid off for me.”

But at the end of high school, that pay off was uncertain. Shoulder surgery following his senior year worried many
schools, while top-notch academic and baseball programs, including Davidson, were scared of his suspect board scores. But Dean of Admission
Nancy Cable granted Quattlebaum a personal interview, and liked what she saw and heard. Said head coach Dick Cooke, “He
liked her. She liked him. It seemed like a good match.”"She overlooked the board scores and took into consideration what
kind of a person I was,” said Quattlebaum, a History major. “She gave me a chance. She’s the reason why
I’m here, and I’m more than grateful.”

And so is Cooke. Although the team stands at 14-30, the coach has seen Quattlebaum fulfill his immense potential this
spring. After hitting .311 during his first two collegiate campaigns, Quattlebaum has exploded this year. His .308 batting clip trails
only outfielder Luke Goodwin’s .333, and he leads the squad in home runs (12), runs (44), slugging (.662), walks (37),
and on-base % (.483).

“He’s a very patient, selective, knowledgeable hitter,” said Cooke. Last year, Quattlebaum torched ACC pitching for a .481 average, three
homers, seven runs, and seven RBIs in seven contests. His ACC mastery continued in the Wildcats’ Apr. 3 upset at
Duke, as he collected three hits (including his eighth homer), a walk, and three RBIs. The shocker was Davidson’s first
victory over a ranked foe since they stunned #1 Ga. Tech in 1994. Quattlebaum, who cracked his twentieth career homer
on Saturday, could challenge the school’s all-time mark of 38 next year.

This summer, Quattlebaum will play for Chatham in the Cape Cod (Mass.) League, a renowned pipeline to the pros primarily
funded by Major League Baseball. Cooke believes this will provide a stepping stone for Quattlebaum on his way to bigger
and better post-Davidson opportunities on the diamond. “It is a great summer baseball league that will get him some good
exposure against some of the top competition in the nation. His offensive productivity is what’s going to get him the
opportunity to play professional baseball.”

But now Quattlebaum and the Wildcats must take care of unfinished Southern Conference business, namely next weekend’s league tourney in
Charleston, SC. Two years ago, as league doormat, Davidson toppled Western and Ga. Southern, the top two seeds, on successive
days. The team hopes they can do the same this year. “We’ve certainly showed signs that we can play competitively,
and I think everybody in the league feels that way too,” said Cooke.

Said Quattlebaum, “It’s all about which team gets hot at the right time.”

Panama City, FL, students were spotted with take-home exams and laptop computers at the beach front. Sergeant Phil Meupp, who
followed the students throughout the day, was quoted as saying: “Later that evening I even saw the group share a
Shirley Temple.”

Two Davidson students were listed in stable condition at the county hospital after colliding with each other while beachcombing the
shores with metal detectors.

Lake Havasu, AZ, March 8th. Davidson fraternity members returned home early from spring break. Kappa Nappa Rho's from USC told
reporters that Davidson's boat was shunned from the lake after being guilty of "being such wuss-bags." Guzzina quipped that: "Those
guys are such wuss-bags."

Toke Joke! Watch: Dirty Bear Network on DC-TV Channel 14: Fridays @ 12 noon and 10 pm to midnight; Saturdays
and Sundays at noon.

Smith Travel Co. of Nashville is reportedly suing for $2.20 because the aquatic portion of their spring break package did
not include water wings, kick boards, or swim bubbles. STC's attorney Rod Guzzina quipped that: "Those guys are such wuss-bags."

Davidson students found sharing Haiku poetry and a game of Dungeons and Dragons. San Padre Island, TX, March 9th. Four
Davidson students were spotted with take-home exams and laptop computers at the beach front.
