2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS BRIEFS

Union room gets more than a new name

"It reminds me of 'the artist formerly known as Prince,'" is how the Union’s Big Screen Room’s name change strikes
sophomore Jonathan Sipling. Actually, Home Room, formerly known as the Big Screen Room, has more than just a new name.
"All of the flags of all of the different countries from which current International Students come now hang in that
room," explains Assistant Professor of English Annie Ingram. The name was selected to reflect the display’s "celebration and tribute to
the wonderful diversity which International Students bring to us ... For me, Home Room is wonderfully evocative," she says. Rather
than simply a strange, unfamiliar country, "all of those flags represent somebody’s home."

Davidson students have a voice

Davidson students finally have a unified voice. Today a 13-page compilation of student concerns and complaints was delivered directly to
major campus organizations, including Residence Life, the Athletic Office, the Computer Center, and Patterson Court. The report is the result
of Dorm Storm, the Student Government Association’s (SGA) most recent effort to communicate directly with all members of the student
body. SGA senators visited each on-campus dorm and apartment last spring, recording students’ concerns and suggestions about all aspects of
Davidson life. Sophomore Senator Jonathan Sipling, who led the Dorm Storm effort, says the report "starts out with concerns mentioned
most often and then goes on to include some students’ novel ideas." Sipling says he hopes that organizations who receive
the report will use it as an aid in addressing student concerns.

Sign-ups for Independent Senator and Honor Council elections

Six Independent Senatorial openings will be filled in elections held September 16. Interested sophomore, junior, or senior students who are
not members of Patterson Court Houses should sign up to run for the position of Independent Senator by this Thursday
in the Dean of Students Office. In addition, three members of the Sophomore Class and three Junior Class members will
be elected on the 16th to serve on the Honor Council. Sophomores and juniors interested in running for Honor Council
must sign up in the Dean of Students Office by this Thursday as well. Students with questions should call sophomore
John Bell, Chair of the Election Council, at -6165.

NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1996

Write for The Davidsonian. Write for Libertas. Publish in Hobart Park.

Wednesday is Davidson College night at...

Great drink specials!
19501-4 HWY 73 W
Cornelius, NC 28031
(one mile west off exit 28 - next to Irish Cue)
(704) 892-4335

Faculty and students always receive a 10% discount on food with Davidson College ID. Open 7 days a week -
11 a.m. until ?
VISA, MasterCard, and American Express welcome

In focus ... NEW PROFESSORS

Debra Fisher: “I come from an artistic background”

By DANIELLE MILES
Staff Writer

"I come from a pretty artistic background ... I had an uncle who taught at a university ... He was
a ceramist ... My sister was also a major influence ..." So begins the explanation provided by Visiting Assistant Professor
of Art Debra Fisher, of the factors that influenced her decision to become a professor of art. Fisher continues, describing
a childhood during which she was constantly exposed to crafts, galleries, and her father’s own work as a draftsman, all
of which familiarized her to the tools of art. In her first print-making class, Fisher says, a professor "challenged me
on what I was drawing ... what does art mean to me ... how to make it speak on many
levels that are personal to myself."

After graduating from the University of Delaware, Fisher worked in a restaurant for ten years, while she continued to have
access to art facilities at the University. In exchange for maintaining the shop, she was given a key to the
facilities, allowing her to go in after work and "work ’til dawn." Fisher has received grants allowing her to travel
to Dresden, Germany and work in a government print shop. Through other grants she traveled to Mexico City and across
the Southwest. Her research there, especially in Tucson, Arizona, included studies of Retablo and Ex-voto, religious painting that strongly influenced
a piece of her own — currently on display at the faculty show. Scheduled to remain at Davidson for one
year, this is only Fisher’s second official teachingPosition. She comes to Davidson from Denison University, where she taught for eight
years.

Durwin Striplin: Science is full of puzzles
By Ann Cup
Staff Writer

A recent addition to the Chemistry Department, Dr. Durwin Striplin is not who one thinks of as a typical professor.
He first attended New Mexico State University in his hometown of Las Cruces, New Mexico. After four years of school,
twelve credits short of an engineering major, Striplin dropped out to “find himself” by playing in rock bands and working.
“I played in bands so much that it took a long time to finish school,” says Striplin. “I was a
professional musician with student on the side. I also got more dates that way.”

Two years later, Striplin went back to school at Eastern New Mexico University. Graduating from college nine years after he
graduated from high school, Striplin pursued science, obtaining degrees in chemistry and mathematics. “I love waking up in a new
world every day. Science has so many puzzles that you just can’t know it all,” he says. “You have something
to look forward to every day, it is always surprising.”

In 1989, Striplin went to Washington State University to work with Dr. Glen Crosby. Although Striplin describes Crosby as an
“old cranky son of a bug,” Crosby was also one of Striplin’s greatest mentors. “I could have gone anywhere,” says
Davidson’s newest chemistry professor. “But there was a reason why I wanted to work for Dr. Crosby. He trained scientists
and left a legacy of people who love science.”

In 1994, Striplin earned a Ph.D. in chemical physics and left Washington for the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill to
be a research scientist. He says he has enjoyed his experience at Davidson so far. “I’m shocked and amazed and
pleasantly surprised with the students here. It is more than a job, it’s a real joy. It’s been a wonderful
change between teacher and research scientist. Number one, you’re a lot lonelier when you’re a research scientist,” says Striplin.

Striplin has two children; Mariah is three and Melissa is one. His wife Caryn is a neurochemist.

Tim Waples: Happy to be a Wildcat again
By Doug Penhallegon
Staff Writer

A Charlotte native and member of Davidson’s class of ‘85, Dr. Tim Waples is thrilled to be teaching English at
his alma mater. Waples asks his English 101 and 201 students to call him Tim. Characterizing his high school as
“bureaucratic and stupid,” Waples chose Davidson for its small size and nurturing environment. As a student here, Waples served as
Defense Advisor to the Honor Council, Hall Counselor, Union Board Member, and belonged to a now-defunct coed eating house. Although
he started out as a political science major, Waples’ interest in political literature led him to be a center major
in American studies.

After graduating from Davidson, Waples pursued a master’s degree in American Studies from the University of Iowa. His experience there
was ambivalent; although he liked the independence, he missed Davidson’s faculty/student interaction and emphasis on teaching. Uncertain as to his
next step after Iowa, Waples took a friend’s advice and began teaching high school in Jackson, Mississippi. Quickly developing a
passion for his job, Waples decided that teaching was what he truly wanted to do, although on a more advanced
level. He enrolled in a Ph.D. program in English at the University of Pennsylvania, and six years later finds himself
back at Davidson, only this time with his back to the chalkboard.

Waples says, “I’m impressed by the changes that have occurred since I left, but even more impressed by the things
that have stayed the same.” Among his favorite aspects of Davidson are the Honor Code, an enthusiastic faculty, and Union
Board. Although worried about the power of conformity here, Waples says he is looking forward to making fresh judgments about
Davidson students. Currently, Waples is researching 1950s American Literature and Culture in regard to the influence of the Cold War.
He is married to Anne Lambert, class of ‘86, and in his spare time he enjoys playing sports and listening
to jazz and blues music. When asked if he planned to settle in Davidson, Waples says, “I’d love to.”

Be Beautiful! Write for News. Call Kirsten or Randy at x2148.
