Che Davidsonian

ALENDA

LUX UBI

ORTA

LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1996

VOLUME 88, NUMBER 6

YOU CAN ALWAYS COME HOME

3,126 people packed the stands at Richardson Field on Saturday, as the football team suffered a 24-17 Homecoming loss to Emory and Henry. Although they dropped to 1-2, the Wildcats pushed the powerful Wasps, ranked 18th nationally in Division III, to the limit.

Senior Dunn Mileham kicked a 19-yard field goal in the first quarter, bruising freshman fullback Eric Ferguson caught a 7-yard scoring pass from junior quarterback Tommy Dugan in the third quarter, and sophomore reserve signal-caller Matt Strader, who sparkled in his first substantial playing time, found senior wide receiver Kirk Roberts for a 28-yard touchdown toss late in the fourth quarter.

During halftime festivities, SGA President Warren Buford, representing the women of Connor, claimed Homecoming King honors, while Lora Chavis, representing Rusk, was crowned Queen.

—Michael Kruse

Campus Police declare two-week towing moratorium

By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
News Editor

For the next two weeks, no student will be towed for parking illegally in faculty parking spaces.

Rather, during the two-week moratorium on towing, the usual $30 parking fine will be issued to any student parked in a faculty space from 5 a.m. to 6 p.m., the hours reserved for faculty use. The temporary towing ban, which begins today and will continue on a trial basis, is the result of weeks of discussion between the Student Advisory Committee on Campus Safety and the Campus Police Department.

Ray Thrower, Director of Public Safety and Campus Police, says his department “will give [the towing moratorium] two weeks, and see what happens. As long as there’s not an average of more than three cars per day [illegally] parked in faculty spaces, [the no-towing

See Towing on page 5

Faculty resources:

By DOUG PENHALLEGON
Staff Writer

Faculty resources was the only category in the U.S. News & World Report College Rankings in which Davidson scored significantly behind other schools. This year, Davidson received a ranking of 57, the second lowest score among the top 15 liberal arts colleges.

Robert Williams, Dean of Faculty and Vice President of Academic Affairs, says, “We’re pleased to be number eleven, but are not happy to be as low on faculty resources as we are. That’s a problem.”

Faculty-to-student ratio, percent of faculty with terminal degrees, percent of faculty with part-time status, average faculty salary, and class size are all factors in this area.

Williams suspects that class size and faculty salaries are factors which hurt Davidson’s faculty resource ranking. While the faculty-to-student ratio at Davidson is actually 11.6 to 1, U.S. News rounded that figure up to 12.

This statistic alludes to the amount of personal attention each student receives from faculty members.

In another report, Davidson ranked 13 out of 17 schools in its peer group in faculty salaries.

Williams says, “That clearly concerns us, hurt us in the ranking, and is a top priority on our budget agenda.”

In the other three measures of faculty resources, Davidson’s score was about average.

Williams points out that “Other schools such as Williams, Bowdoin and Carleton have much better endowments [than Davidson] but still rank low in faculty resources.”

How we compare ... a look at the faculty resources at some top colleges

Amherst 17
Bowdoin 54
Carleton 41
Davidson 57
Swarthmore 4
Washington & Lee 3
Williams 28

Despite worries, First Night Down has no reported emergencies

By ANDREW PRESTON
Staff Writer

In the past, First Night Down, the first time members of the freshman class are allowed to attend fraternity and eating house parties, has been notorious for its numerous alcohol violations and alcohol-related emergencies. This year, however, the Court was relatively trouble-free.

Campus Police Chief Ray Thrower sums up First Night Down as, “Quiet, very quiet. There were significantly fewer incidents than previous years,” and Thrower says, “we even had fewer problems than your typical weekend.”

A few people were given alcohol violations for underage drinking, but overall there were no arrests or serious problems.

Thrower says, “People were just having a good time without any incidents.”

The Court was also quiet from a health perspective.

No one required treatment at either the hospital or the infirmary, and no one reported any serious injury or sickness.

Beth Bell, Assistant Director of Residence Life and Coordinator of Greek Affairs, says, “We’re so excited about the way things went. The organizations [fraternities and eating houses] did a great job controlling the environment ... There were no crises.”

The causes for such a successful and safe weekend are not known.

Thrower says, “I don’t know what the magic was, but I was happy to have it.”

Bell credits the success to the fact that more students were engaged in the bands and talking with friends rather than just consuming alcohol.

Bell feels that the quality of events made this possible, as well as the effort of hall counselors and staff.

“There was not such a build-up as in the past on just getting obliterated. Many non-alcoholic beverages were available ... Alcohol was presented as an option but not the end all and be all,” she says.

Bell also praises Project Life’s Spaghetti Dinner as “a great way to allow students to connect with each other for a good cause.”

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036