12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Step on a Crack delights child in all

By BRIGAND GREEN
Staff Writer

When a young girl’s single father remarries, can things ever really be the same between them? And should they be? These questions are the motivation behind Suzan Zeder’s Step On A Crack, the most recent children’s play produced by the Davidson Community Players and the Davidson College Theater Department.

Directed by Christa Abbott, the one-act was performed in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building’s Black Box Theatre, whose small size and central “stage” were well-suited to keeping the interest of the children in attendance. Other details revealed the players’ understanding of the difficulties of performing before such a young audience. Even before the play began, the actors took the stage, enacting popular children’s games which occasionally erupted into spontaneous “fistfights.” This twist delighted the children and kept the pre-show atmosphere from degenerating into boredom.

The set was also well-designed; the parents’ conventional living room contrasted strongly with the chaos and clutter of Ellie’s bedroom, and even more with the wildly painted, oversized “toybox” which served as the gateway into Ellie’s imagination. The props never overwhelmed the small stage, allowing the actors plenty of room to move about and interact without tripping over chairs or bowling pins.

The performance itself showed similar attention to detail. The characters were recognizable to anyone who is, or was once, a child; Ellie (Emily Eagan) exhibited all the magnified excitement, joys, and fears of youth, while Max and Lucille (Matthew Strader and Kay Walraven) performed convincingly as the goofy single father and his sweet, tentative new love interest. The most spectacular performances, however, were by “Lana” and “Frizbee,” Ellie’s imaginary playmates given life by Jimmy Lloyd and Sarah Hankins. Riotously dressed, hilarious and always in motion, the pair resembled characters from a Saturday morning cartoon rather than a stage drama. Their hyperkinetic antics balanced the gloomy predictions of “The Voice” (Adrienne Nixon), and kept the play’s more serious themes from becoming overwhelming.

Students, professors, and parents were all present in the near-capacity crowd on opening night. Their laughter and applause testified to the production’s broad appeal. However, the children’s reaction to the production was most important, and the majority were spellbound. A few even offered their own opinions on the play’s action; one excited boy in the top row shouted an encouraging “Good idea!” to Ellie as she lectured her stepmother on the evils of sour cream and early bedtimes. The reviewer offers the same opinion to Christa Abbott and all those who helped to produce this engaging children’s play—great idea! May their next production be as innovative and entertaining as this one.

ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, APRIL 1, 1996

—Music in two hours or less—
COMPILED BY WIFOY

April 2
Cat’s Cradle (Chapel Hill): Babyland with Web
Ziggy’s (Winston Salem): Life in General

April 3
Be Here Now (Asheville): Jump, Little Children with Gran Torino
Cat’s Cradle: Uncle Mingo with Anna
Elbow Room (Columbia): Shoveljerk
Jack Straws (Charlotte): Conehead Buddha

April 4
Amos’s (Charlotte): Mary Sunshine
Cat’s Cradle: Medeski, Martin, and Wood
Elbow Room: Everything
Jack Straws: Jump, Little Children
Ziggy’s: Back Doors

April 5
Be Here Now: Southern Culture on the Skids
Cat’s Cradle: Spinanes with Versus and Blast Off Country Style
Jack Straws: Urban Shakedancers
Elbow Room: Deadeye Dick
Ziggy’s: Drivin’ and Cryin’

April 6
Be Here Now: Floyd’s Funk Revival
Cat’s Cradle: Reggae Jam with Sunfire, Jumpstarts, Awareness Arts Ensemble, Ram Band, and more
Elbow Room: The Hazels
Jack Straws: Knocked Down Smilin’
Ziggy’s: Velocity Girl

April 7
Tremont: Nixon’s For Squirrels
Ziggy’s: Punk Rock Festival

Mexico/Caribbean $189 RT, Europe $169 OW, & Domestic Destinations Cheap!

IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE PRICES START YOUR OWN DAMN AIRLINE

Air-Tech, Ltd. 212/219-7000
info@aerotech.com
http://campus.net/aerotech