THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS. Greg Garrison Bored? Start Your Own Holy War

You know, something I’ve noticed this year is that there has been a complete lack of religious debate and tension on campus. This is out of the ordinary for Davidson, and I don’t know whether it shows that we’ve all grown up a little bit over the summer or if other things seem more important than religious debates that are irrelevant to everyone who isn’t involved in them. Although this is probably a sign of a healthy campus, I’m sure that many of you are bored and disturbed by it.

If you are, why not start some religious tension of your own? Here’s a good way to do it: Go around saying, “God is dog spelled backwards.” Now, this phrase is silly, childish, mindless, and almost utterly devoid of meaning, but that has never stopped anyone from arguing vehemently about “issues” before. Ask anyone who kept up with the “Evolution happened/No it didn’t/Yes it did/No it didn’t/Ad nauseam” debate in The Davidsonian a couple of years ago.

Although simple, this will most likely have an interesting effect on the people you know. A fundamentalist will take a good look at the information, examine the evidence, and tell you that it’s offensive and that s/he just doesn’t buy it. S/he will furthermore tell you that if you only read the Bible more often, you wouldn’t be so confused. The conversation will probably end with him/her asking you, “Do you know Jesus Christ as your personal Lord and Savior?”

An atheist will get hopping mad and tell you that you have no right to say this to him/her since no one has the right to impose his/her religious beliefs on anyone else. A cat lover will accuse you of species discrimination and say that you should be taken out back and shot. Furthermore, s/he may refer you to the TAAAAA (The International Journal of Attitudes About Anthropology, Archaeology, and Anthropomorphism), a magazine that, although obscure to the point of not being findable in any database anywhere, s/he swears is a serious academic publication and recently published an article which revealed that Enilef is an ancient Mesopotamian word for Sovereign Lord of the Universe.

An agnostic will discuss it with you for a while and show interest, but eventually s/he won’t be able to decide his/her opinion on the matter. A stoner (Of course, we all know that no one at Davidson uses drugs, don’t we?) will gaze deeply into space for a few minutes and realize that s/he must investigate the matter more. S/he may then go to the mountains, eat a bunch of shrooms, and stare at a picture of Benji (a.k.a. The Heavenly Dog) until s/he can apprehend a deep, universal Truth on the order of “All you need is love” or “People suck.”

Finally, many people here will smile and say, “Yeah. Wanna beer?” This is the healthiest response possible, and if you anticipate hearing it from someone, make sure that you have finished all of your homework before approaching him/her with the phrase. Trust me, there is such a thing as having too much fun on a school night.

With this information in mind, you can be mature and try to enjoy the peace that we’re experiencing right now, or you can go out of your way to start up a religious debate, which will surely make like-minded people respect you and make everyone else think you’re an ass. Now you know, and knowing is half the battle.

This week, when the 3-2 Davidson Football Team made its way up to play Methodist College, one very important aspect of the team was missing: the Cheerleaders. In intercollegiate competition, no team better exemplifies school spirit and the part of athletic competition a school wants to display than the cheerleading squad. It is a wonderful feeling for players to know that the cheerleaders will be there showing their support no matter how the game is going. Especially when we play on the road and few Davidson fans are able to attend, it makes a big difference to have constant support on the sideline. Through the good seasons and the bad, the cheerleaders are always there supporting us. I know I speak for my teammates in saying, “we appreciate the cheerleaders.”

All that being said, Davidson has initiated a new policy this year. The cheerleaders can no longer go to away football games. The reason for this decision is that it was considered inequitable for the cheerleaders to accompany the men’s football team to away games when there is no comparable women’s team. It is not a question of money. The cheerleaders had the money to make the trips. It is not a question of desire. The reason these Davidson students take the time to practice and learn how to cheer is because they want to show their support. They all want to go to away games. Many of them have told us how sorry and upset they are at no longer being allowed to go. So there are no practical reasons for this action. There are only politically correct ones. Nothing is gained by depriving the football team of the cheerleaders’ support on away trips. But as is

Eric Sapp Politically Correct Absurdity MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1996Often the case when using P.C. logic, that doesn’t matter. The question of what is best for Davidson athletics was also never addressed. The rationale used is simply, “If I can’t have it (or if everyone can’t have it), I won’t let you have it.” It is somewhat ironic that such a childish and selfish rationale has come to be espoused by an institution of “higher learning” which is supposed to teach us to think rationally and compassionately. The fact that the cheerleaders went to away football games did not hurt anybody. All it did was help the football team. Taking away the cheerleaders does not help anybody. All it does is hurt the football team. I have always been proud to say I’m a Wildcat. But now I cannot help but feel some embarrassment in the fact that Davidson was not able to avoid succumbing to a legalistic and counterproductive interpretation of policies and rules (after all, most schools—including our opponents—take their cheerleaders to away games). Although I support the intent of Title IX and Davidson’s efforts to bring about parity in men’s and women’s sports, I fail to see how depriving the football team of the support of the cheerleading squad (which consists of men and women) furthers this worthy goal. To the cheerleaders, thank you for your support and dedication. The entire team will miss you this week.

After reading Liz Reid’s reaction to my article on “Skinny Girls,” I’ll admit that I suffered a moment of self-doubt—then I remembered that I was right. Reid’s approach to critical writing is an interesting one, a combination of emotional blindness and intimate attack, but I think that I can address her arguments despite their lack of substance. First, rest easy. The detailed image of my furious note-taking may remain a resident of Reid’s imagination. I take mental notes. Reid’s claim that the play wasn’t “big on entertainment interspersed with jokes and amusing parodies” seems a tad paradoxical. Remember all those amusing parodies? That was the entertaining part. The director makes choices as to how these scenes are presented and whether the audience’s reaction (namely laughter) was intended, it happened. Deal.

Though the play dealt with diseases such as anorexia and bulimia, I made a conscious choice to critique the production, not the issues on display. Reid assures us that the actors could have been “naked standing in the middle of a field” and that I was wasting my time describing the “logistics of the set,” but I hasten to disagree. Everything you see while viewing a play is a result of careful consideration—a melding of concept and craft. Rather than dismiss the show (it was a senior project), I elected (and would again) to analyze the elements of theater as they appeared to me. Look to the News section for issues. My lack of compassion was not a result of inhuman apathy, but an honest reaction to what I saw on stage. Obviously, Liz Reid had a very different experience, one that led her to defend something that didn’t need defending—the play’s realistic portrayal of eating disorders. I do not apologize for my article. Nor do I intend to reject my honesty in favor of praise undeserved.

Sabine Heller

For the last time, I’m writing in response to Saad and Fahd Gul’s scathing articles in the September 30th issue of The Davidsonian. I’ll make this article brief since I’m sure this subject has dominated the Opinions section for long enough. My original article was trying to point out to Davidson students that women’s issues are not just imaginary problems created to help women express sexual frustration. I’m sad that somehow my point was lost. First, I’m going to address the issue of whether women in Pakistan are jailed for zina, which, in effect, often includes rape. I recently spoke to Selma Ismail, one of the women active in the All Pakistan Women’s Association. (She is incidentally also one of Benazir Bhutto’s cousins and one of mine). She visits jails and counsels rape victims. She stated clearly that she has spoken with women who have been jailed after having been raped. Perhaps Fahd and Saad have not been made aware of what really happens to women in Pakistan. Rape is not openly discussed and is underreported for it carries a huge stigma—anywhere in the world, and I hate to say this, but especially in Islamic countries.

The second issue I’d like to discuss concerns Pakistan’s jails. Saad and Fahd point out that jails are single sex. This fact, however, does not preclude the possibility of guards raping female inmates. Bhutto has been trying recently to protect women from this phenomenon but has made little headway. In general, a women’s jail is in a building which is enclosed in another, larger men’s jail. In order to get in and out of the women’s prison, a person needs to walk through the men’s prison. In reality, plenty of men have access to these female prisoners.

Be the voice of your generation. Write for Opinions. Call Nina or Kristen at 2148 or be squared.