The Davidsonian

A LENOX BAKER GIFT

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1996

VOLUME 88, NUMBER 8

Bakers give $2.5 million gift

Donation will help to fund new Baker-Watt life sciences complex

By BRAD GRIFFIN
Guest Writer

Drs. Frances and Lenox Baker, Jr. of Norfolk, Virginia, have committed $2.5 million to the College in support of the departments of the life sciences.

The money will contribute toward the construction of the planned Watson Life Sciences Building. In recognition of their gift, the college plans to name the entire complex in memory of the Bakers’ fathers, Dr. Lenox D. Baker, Sr. and Dr. James Watt. “When I was here, Dana was a wonderful building,” says Baker. “We had great classrooms and lab spaces, but we also had fewer students using the building. When my wife and I walked through there on our last campus visit, I hardly recognized it. It’s crammed to the gills.”

Baker, a member of Davidson’s Class of 1963, currently serves as chief surgeon in the division of cardiac and thoracic surgery for Sentara Hospitals in Norfolk.

Frances Baker, like her mother before her, is a pediatrician.

The College hopes to complete the building by the fall of 1998. Facilities for the life sciences have not had a significant upgrade since the biology department occupied Dana Science Building in the early 1960s. Increasing numbers of students majoring in biology and psychology.

See Gift on page 2

Lenox Baker, who helped give with his wife Frances.

Presidential candidates include non-Presbyterians

By Kirsten RECKNAGEL
News Editor

Despite Davidson’s Board of Trustees’ decision last February to retain by-laws mandating that the College President be “a loyal church member, giving evidence of strong Christian faith and commitment through the affiliation with the Presbyterian Church (USA),” not all presidential candidates are Presbyterians.

As seen earlier this month in a Charlotte Observer article written by Pam Kelley, Larry Dagenhart, Trustee Secretary and Chair of the Presidential Search Committee, confirmed that not all of the search committee’s candidates are Presbyterian.

However, Craig Wall, Jr., Chairman of the Board, told The Davidsonian last semester that “Davidson College is a church-related institution, and [it is important that] the chief officer be affiliated with the Presbyterian Church in order to establish the foundation and the core of the message we wish to extend. The Board establishes policy and elects this chief executive officer.”

Last February during the Board of Trustees biannual meeting at the College, trustees reaffirmed the strength of Davidson’s religious ties. The Board voted to accept, for the first time ever, non-Christians as members of the religion department. In addition, trustees upheld the school’s policy that trustees must be Christians and that the college president must be a Christian, affiliated with the Presbyterian Church, USA.

More angry Pakistanis.

OPINIONS 8

You, in the red shirt: call 911!

NEWS 3

Anna Judy

UNITED COLORS OF DAVIDSON

International festival brings people of all worlds together

By JENNY CORKE
Guest Writer

“Free food, lots of entertainment, great music, awesome people” was the slogan of Davidson’s own, very successful, International Festival.

Not only did the eclectic representation of foreign countries help to raise cultural awareness on a campus that craves diversity, but it also helped to liven up an otherwise ordinary Saturday afternoon.

Students wandered from stand to stand, tasting French crepes, Mexican tamales, listening to a variety of music.

Each country displayed scenic posters and wonderful crafts that offered a visual perspective on their cultural traditions and their own unique characteristics.

At around 1:00, the 900 room came to life with a colorful parade of national flags.

Each country was introduced and two Brazilian representatives, dressed in ethnic costumes, did the lambada.

In answer to their call for volunteers, two brave women (and one very hesitant man) went up to the stage and joined in. The “myringa” dance came next, followed by Russian folk songs and dancing.

The audience participated enthusiastically; clapping to the beat and humming along to the music.

So, for one afternoon, the Union was turned into a cultural carnival.

Town council lifts ban on Main Street parking

By RANDY HARTWELL
Associate News Editor

Less than two weeks into its new Main Street parking policy that prohibited students without permits from leaving their cars there, the Town of Davidson discovered it had not yet found the solution to Main Street merchants’ parking woes. Main Street employees outnumbered all-day parking spaces, so to find more room, “the most logical place seemed on the north side of Main Street, away from the stores,” says Town Administrator Leamon Brice.

“We realize that displaced the students,” he continues, “but we didn’t have much of an alternative.” After a week and a half, Brice says he and the rest of the council “realized that not enough people were taking advantage of [the parking policy change] and we needed to cut back on the number of permitted spaces and allocate more two-hour places.”

Brice adds that “what we have done is just that. We’ve made part of [Main Street] two-hour, permitted spaces, and the rest are not marked at all.”

The new zoning of approximately 30 Main Street parking spaces is a victory for students who live off campus, many of whom had to squeeze into an inadequate number of spaces on Con-

See Town on page 5

The Real World. page 10

SPORTS 13

Love it, live it, be it. First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

OPINIONS 8
ARTS & LIVING 10