THE DAVIDSONIAN . NEWS. MONDAY, APRIL 22, 1996

rather unique study break. FLAME THROWER Nathan, really? Raley exhibits his unusual talent for a Josh Glazer

IVCF from page 1

officers, number of members, and any amendments made to the group’s constitution. The Charters and By-laws Committee evaluates applications and
passes all organizations’ requests for charter renewal to the Senate either with or without committee recommendation. Finally, a Senate vote
either grants or denies charter renewal.

Usually, this formal procedure is completed uneventfully, and all charter requests are granted. However, last week the SGA renewed the
charters of only 14 of the 15 student organizations requesting renewal. After lengthy debate initiated by sophomore Senator Eric Sapp’s
motion that the SGA renew IVCF’s charter without the Charter and By-laws Committee’s recommendation, the motion was tabled until next
Tuesday’s meeting. According to Sabel, “This is the first time in my four years on SGA [that an organization has
not been recommended for charter renewal].”

SGA by-laws recognize that “All students have equal rights and responsibilities under the Davidson College Constitution” (Article I, A2) and
the Davidson College non-discrimination policy reads, “Davidson College ... administers all educational and employment activities without discrimination because of race,
color, religion, national origin, age, disability, sex, or sexual orientation except where exemption is appropriate and allowed by law.” Committee
members felt that a portion of the InterVarsity Christian Fellowship Constitution at Davidson College which sets forth leadership restrictions and
requirements conflicted with these policies. Specifically, IVCF’s constitution mandates that “To be considered for leadership in this organization individuals should
demonstrate lives...free of patterns of gossip and slander; drunkenness; sexual immorality, including the practice of homosexuality, or the inappropriate practice
of heterosexual activity outside of the marriage context; selfish ambition; hatred; lewdness; and the like.” (Article V, Section 1)

Student opinion on the issue is clearly divided. While some students and senators see IVCF’s policy as blatantly discriminatory on
the basis of sexual orientation, others view IVCF’s leadership requirements as a matter of religious conviction, and argue that IVCF’s
freedom of religious expression is protected by law.

Macon Stokes, a junior and the President of IVCF, believes, “This is an issue of a religious organization’s ability to
hold and abide by its own religious convictions. It is my hope,” he says, “that when people dispassionately view all
the facts of the entire issue, they will come to the same conclusion.” Stokes explains, “As a Christian organization, one
of our purposes is to make disciples and present the gospel to the campus.” Although stipulations exist concerning IVCF’s leadership,
the constitution states that “membership and participation in this organization is open to all student and faculty members.” (Article IV,
Section 1) No official membership list exists, but Stokes estimates that between 90 and 120 students maintain active involvement.

The Davidsonian is looking for people to work on the editorial staff for the fall semester. If you are interested
in news editing, opinions editing, arts editing, photography or photo editing, advertising, or working on our web page then please
give John or Mary Clare a call at - 2148 or - 2149. The work is fun, rewarding and interesting
- and the editors are a lot of fun to hang out with.

Rosemary Zumwalt

Anthropology professor receives Guggenheim, “most prized recognition of superior scholarship in America”

By NARESH NAGELLA Assistant News Editor

Rosemary Zumwalt, chairperson of the department of anthropology, will get to shape a piece of history dealing with something she
cares about deeply. She has received Davidson’s first Guggenheim fellowship. It is an award that Dean of Academic Affairs Robert
Williams calls, “Perhaps the most prized recognition of superior scholarship in academia.”

The Fellowship will allow Zumwalt to study how the founder of anthropology, Franz Boas, shaped its modern form through a
personal relationship with students and scholarly letters. Zumwalt commented, “A Guggenheim is something I never thought I'd get. It’s like
a cloud in the sky — unreachable. I feel very honored.”

The Fellowship will allow Zumwalt to spend her next year, her sabbatical year, to travel around the country to visit
archives and read original letters of Boas and his students. She will work in the American Philosophical Society Library, Columbia
University (where Boas taught), in Washington’s National Archives, and at Vassar University. She hopes to research Boas’ influence on other
notable figures such as Margaret Mead, Ruth Benedict, and Alfred Louis Kroeber at these places. She calls this aspect of
her work the most “serendipitous” because it entails finding Boas' influence on other people. She says, “It’s like a puzzle,
since you have to find the pieces and fit them together.”

While the actual research will take about one year, Zumwalt’s planned book will take much longer to publish. Of Boas,
she says, “I sense a personal connection with him. All anthropologists probably feel a kinship with him.” Clearly, Zumwalt is
up to her challenge, considering her task a labor of love. She states, “I’ll enjoy the challenge of the task.
I’m happy to have the opportunity to study a man so important and to be able to grasp his influence
on the field.”The excitement of his times.” tain more than passing involvement in the group, through participation in weekly meetings
and weekly small group Bible studies. Until last semester, no specific mention of the practice of homosexuality was made in
the group’s constitution. However, after an incident last year in which an abstinent homosexual student was discouraged by an IVCF
staff member from submitting his application for IVCF leadership, Davidson College administration asked IVCF to outline its leadership requirements “so
that what was [a tacit understanding of religious faith by IVCF leaders] be made specific,” says Stokes. It is this
constitutional amendment which concerns the Charters and By-laws Committee as well as many students. Rob Knight, a sophomore, identified himself
Tuesday evening as the homosexual student who had desired to apply for an IVCF leadership position last year. Knight stresses
the nature of his involvement in IVCF at the time, saying, “I was a highly involved and very motivated member
of IVCF so [being informed that he was ineligible for leadership in the organization] came as a big surprise to
me.” At Tuesday’s meeting, Warner House Senator Stephanie Morgan, a senior, agreed with the recommendation and voiced her reservations with
what she saw as a contradiction in renewing the charter of a discriminatory organization, which would effectively make IVCF a
part of the SGA, when SGA by-laws clearly prohibit discrimination by the SGA Senate. Senior Carol Steele agrees. “IVCF should
not be given a charter. If the SGA does [renew it],” she says, “the school is in effect condoning discrimination.”
Knight says that in his mind, “the IVCF constitution and the by-laws of the SGA are obviously in opposition [and
therefore] they cannot co-exist.” In addition, Knight states, “IVCF is not a religion, it is a religious organization,” which can
continue to practice according to their religious beliefs regardless of whether their charter is renewed by the SGA. However, Stokes
stresses that “we're not singling out [homosexual] behavior,” and that practicing homosexuals are not the only individuals prohibited from becoming
IVCF leaders. Stokes says that the official qualities for leadership reflect “how we understand a life in pursuit of Christ....
We wouldn’t want someone who hated homosexuals in leadership.” Junior Andy Morris, who has served as a Bible study leader
for three semesters, adds, “We want [as a leader] someone who loves everyone regardless of what they do.” Morris notes
that love is not, however, synonymous with approval. Despite these arguments, not all students are convinced. Freshman Meredith Judy asks,
“This is an educational institution. How can we deny any individual the opportunity to explore all aspects of student life?”
Yet student support for IVCF does exist. Following Tuesday’s meeting, Sapp said that he viewed the SGA’s hesitancy in renewing
IVCF’s charter as “telling a religious organization, ‘If you don’t change your beliefs to what we believe, your charter will
be revoked’.” As the President of Fellowship of Christian Athletes, a religious student organization whose charter was renewed by the
SGA last week, Sapp says that FCA has no “written requirements” for FCA leadership. Senator Sarah Terry, a junior, says,
“To me, IV holds a position which they base on Biblical tradition and understanding.” The issue as Terry sees it,
is one of freedom of religious expression, and she explains, “I feel that IV does not violate any of the
requirements for granting the charter.” In terms of the SGA’s final vote on the status of IVCF’s charter, the technicalities
of SGA by-laws may prove to be the decisive factor in the charter renewal issue. Tom Shandley, Vice President of
student life and Dean of Students, says, “It’s important for student government to make sure not to violate the protected
rights of the organization.” Addressing the Senate at Tuesday’s meeting, Shandley urged senators to determine whether IVCF is protected by
law. “You don’t have the right to break the law,” he said. Davidson College General Counsel Bart Landess notes that
the charter requirements and restrictions stipulate “nondiscrimination as to membership. From what I understand,” he says, according to the Davidson
College 1996 Student Organization Handbook, “chartering doesn’t have a leadership discrimination clause.” In fact, in listing the guidelines for the
“determination of an organization’s eligibility for a charter,” the 1996 Handbook states: “Membership in the organization must be open to
any member of the student body.” No requirements or restrictions concerning leadership are mentioned. Yet even this presumably clear-cut matter
of policy gives rise to different interpretation. Sophomore Anthony Macaronis states that in his view, “To be a leader of
an organization you are implicitly a member.” SGA President Warren Buford says that “the SGA has the power and the
responsibility to give organizations charters,” but notes, “If we don’t [grant an organization charter] the College President has the ability
to override our decision.” However, Buford says, “I think [next] Tuesday’s debate will shape and clarify some of the issues
and concerns.” Get out of the library. Go to the Lake Campus. Go to a speaker. Go to a Davidson
game. Have a gin and tonic.
