| SPORTS 14 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1996

Kruse’s Cubby
Little guys still gotta dream big
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Assistant Sports Editor

Ron Green, big cheese sports columnist, began his literary masterpiece in yesterday’s edition: “A banner behind one basket at Belk
Arena Saturday read, ‘March Madness at Davidson, Bring on UMass.’” Milking the now legendary sign for all its worth, he
continued later, “They (the Wildcats) know they have to take care of business and leave the dreaming, for the moment,
to the people who hang the banners.”

Alas, how little you know, almighty journalistic wise man. I was the one who did the hanging and the painting,
after hallmate Mike “Flashy Freshman Wideout” Harrington offered UMass as the appropriate team. Indeed, I am the person for whom
the dreaming at this moment is left. Yes, me, the little guy, the inferior Davidsonian journalist wannabe who was, after
the game, standing next to you during a Brandon Williams post-game interview. Remember me? Probably not. That’s because Ron is
not only on the staff of a large metropolitan paper, but he gets a little picture of his head next
to everything he writes. That means one of two things in the journalism world: you’re good or, like in Ron’s
case, you covered glacier formation during the Ice Age.

But really, I must show proper respect for good ol’ Ron. I am not an Observerite. I am a Davidsonianite.
I don’t even get a little picture of my head next to anything I write, let alone everything I write.
I must admit though, he was completely on the ball when he dubbed the ever-apathetic Belk horde “a tea and
crumpets crowd.” And that, my friends, is all too true.

Write for Sports. Call Will or Mike at -2148.

Comeback falls short
Women make history against Catamounts only to drop heartbreaker
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Assistant Sports Editor

The women’s basketball team had an unforgettable week. They became the winningest team in program history with a 69-60 victory
at Western Carolina (8-14, 3-7) on Monday, and then they fell to Georgia Southern (13-10, 6-5), 100-97, in overtime on
Saturday at Belk Arena.

Women’s Basketball

Although the Wildcats (11-10, 5-6) have shown flashes of brilliance in this breakthrough season, inconsistency has plagued them throughout. They
won four of their first six league games, but have now lost four of their last five. The first half
against GSU exemplified the mercurial play, as Davidson fell behind 20-6, only to roar back and claim a 24-23 lead.
However, the Eagles then put together a 30-13 run of their own and held a 53-37 advantage at the break.

Davidson trailed by as many as 19 in the second half and faced a seemingly insurmountable 15-point deficit with just
7:48 remaining. But the Wildcats, with rejuvenated emotion and intensity, made up 11 points in the final 2:50, forcing overtime.

“When we play with intensity like we did in the second half, we play as well as any team in
the conference,” said head coach John Filar.

Jessica Montrella tallied 6 of her career-high 24 points, sparking the comeback. Down 85-77 with 1:42 left, a Monica Winter
(38 minutes, 6 assists) free throw, Carolyn Kirsch (20 points, 11 rebounds, 8 of which were offensive) layup, Jennifer Sanborn
(a career-high 23 points on 9-for-15 field goal shooting, including 3-for-7 long-distance marksmanship) driving lay-in, and a dramatic Montrella three
with 13 seconds left in regulation knotted the score.

Kristen Ferrucci added 15 points on 7-for-9 shooting. A potentially game-winning Kirsch layup attempt rattled out as the buzzer sounded.
Overtime proved equally thrilling, as a last-second Sanborn three-pointer rimmed out, allowing the Eagles to escape with the narrow victory.
Said Filar, “When you see a team play that hard, you want to have some positive results. This one hurts.”

Ferrucci starred in Monday’s historic win over the Catamounts, collecting 19 points and 8 rebounds. Down38-31 at halftime, Davidson rallied
in the second, outscoring Western by 16 points to claim its 11th win and first-ever season sweep of a league
foe. Kirsch and Montrella chipped in 14 and 11 points, respectively, and Jamie Brown ripped down 10 boards. “We haven’t
had the game of our life yet. We haven’t had a player who’s had the game of her life yet,”
said Filar, “It'll come. It may just come at an unbelievable time.” Filar hopes that unbelievable time will come in
less than three weeks at the conference tournament. “We haven’t put all our weapons on the floor one time (because
of injuries),” he said, “So if anybody will be ready to go at tournament time, it should be us.”

Wildcats roll to 20th win

Men’s Basketball Team rolls over East Tennessee St.
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Assistant Sports Editor

It’s almost getting to be too routine. On a weekly basis, Davidson squashes its Southern Conference opponents.

Men’s Basketball

After manhandling East Tennessee St. (7-14, 3-7), 96-66, on Tuesday in Johnson City, and bombing The Citadel (10-12, 5-6), 82-54,
on Saturday in Belk Arena, the Wildcats stand at 20-3 overall, including an 11-0 league record. They are currently riding
a 14-game unbeaten streak, tied for the third longest in school history, and have triumphed in 17 of their last
18 contests.

“This team has put me on automatic pilot,” said coach Bob McKillop following the Citadel whipping, “My confidence in them
is reaching upward. That’s a very comforting feeling.”

“I think we’re the best team in the conference and I don’t think we should lose the rest of the
year,” added Mark McGuire. Brandon Williams summed it up: “It would be hard not to be confident.”

Davidson jumped out to a 20-6 lead in the first six minutes and continued to dominate the Bulldogs throughout the
first half, leading 46-27 at the break. The overmatched Citadel managed to shave the lead to 15 with 6:46 left
in the contest, but successive jams by Ray Minlend and Williams triggered a 16-3 game-ending spurt, as the Wildcats clinched
at least a tie for the conference’s North Division title.

Williams notched a game-high 23 points, hitting 4 of 5 from behind the arc. In the last three outings, he
is 9-for-12 on three-pointers. Chris Alpert and Mark Donnelly also reached double figures, bucketing 12 and 10, respectively. Alpert recorded
six assists and four steals as well. Quinn Harwood, Narcisse Ewodo (team-best eight boards), and Minlend added eight points apiece
and Jeff Anderson had six. Virgil Stevens led the Citadel with 11.

Tuesday’s victory was just as convincing, as the Wildcats held a 14-point halftime lead en route to their second 30-point
throttling of ETSU in a month. Davidson shot 55% from the floor and 76% from the line, while the Bucs
floundered, hitting 46% from the floor and an anemic 41% (9-22) of their free throws. Williams posted a team-high 19
points, while Harwood added 17, Minlend 16, Anderson 14, and Donnelly 13. Williams and Ewodo each recorded eight rebounds. Justin
McClellan, the only Buc in double figures, tallied 12.

As a team, Davidson dished out 25 assists (including a season-best 9 from Alpert), as ETSU mustered just 12. “I
don’t know how good this team can get, (but) I thought the way we played tonight was as good as
we’ve been all year, if not better than we’ve been all year,” McKillop said, “This was a very convincing victory.”

The Wildcats look to remain undefeated in the conference against a pair of tough opponents this week, traveling to VMI
tonight and hosting Marshall on Saturday at 2:30 p.m. on SportSouth. “VMI plays with great energy and it’s going to
be a very challenging game for us, but a kind of challenge you want at this part of the season
to prepare you for conference tournament play,” said McKillop. As Williams said, “It’s our heart that won't let us lose
right now.”
