ALENDA

VOLUME LXXXVII

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1996

NUMBER 21

Curtis, Hankins win Watson

By CATHERINE ANDERSON & MARY CLAIRE JALONICK
News and Executive Editors

Seniors Jeni Hankins and Mandy Curtis will venture to 13 far away lands next year to study everything from Elvis Presley to the alternative press.

Both received the news Saturday that they had been granted Watson Fellowships, which will grant them money to study their chosen topics around the world. They were two of four Davidson nominees for the scholarship.

Hankins will be traveling to nine different countries in Western Europe, Japan, and Russia to make a documentary on popular and religious icons and their fans.

“I’ll be making a performance art piece which combines costumes and an art set based on relics gathered on the trip,” says Hankins.

She will be meeting with the fan clubs of Elvis Presley, of which there are 170 internationally, attending night clubs and bars in Tokyo to study the emulation of Marilyn Monroe, making a pilgrimage to the grave of Jim Morrison in Paris on the anniversary of his death, and visiting the Reeperbahn in Hamburg where the Beatles first made it big.

“At the same time,” says Hankins, “I’ll be studying national religious icons such as Saint Theresa and Saint Catherine to compare the religious and pop devotionalisms.”

Hankins was inspired by English Professor Gail Gibson and her own love of Marilyn Monroe and Elvis Presley. “I feel so lucky to have this opportunity,” she adds.

Curtis will be combining her three greatest interests: journalism, women’s studies, and Latin America.

She will travel to Argentina, Chile, Mexico, and Nicaragua to study women in the alternative press. She also hopes to travel to Peru and Cuba.

The nature of the press in each of these countries greatly contrasts with that of the United States due to government suppression and partisan support in these countries. The United States has always had a free press, but most of these countries have undergone a lot of censorship,” she says.

See Watson on page 6

Self Study concludes women’s experiences not ideal

By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
Assistant News Editor

In their investigation and analysis of the “Student Experience” at Davidson College, a 14-member Self-Study Committee found that several “aspects of campus life did not fully reflect the ideal student experience.”

Self-Study Series

One group of students whose campus experience was deemed to “differ from the ideal” is women.

Due to the fact that women make up nearly 50% of Davidson’s student body, over 10% of the section evaluating the Student Experience falls under the heading “Women Student Concerns.”

Drawing from information obtained through Self-Study Committee interviews with Warner and Connor Eating House members, Self-Study Student Survey data, as well as discussions with the College Women’s Concerns Committee and students pursuing concentrations in gender studies, the Self-Study compiled a variety of information concerning the aspects of female students’ life at Davidson.

Some of the Self-Study Committee findings, published in the 1995-96 Self-Study report, include such topics as:

Female Faculty: Significant increases in female faculty

See Women’s Study on page 4

Southern studies concentration introduced to curriculum

By ANN HATFIELD

Recognizing that the college already offered 19 courses focusing on the South, the faculty enthusiastically approved the proposal.

Smith calls the concentration a “natural for Davidson.” He says, “it’s time to take the opportunity to look at the South anew. There’s a lot of attention on regionalism in the world anyway, and there’s an interest in what the South is now that it may not have been before. This is neither a caricature of the South nor a call for Southern nationalism. It’s a way to look at ourselves in a different way and project a kind of difference without superiority or inferiority.”

McMillen, who already teaches courses in “The New South,” “The Old South,” “The Civil War,” and “Southern Women,” holds high hopes for the new concentration. She comments, “The South is so fascinating... I think this will attract some students to Davidson. And not only Southerners, but others who are interested in the region.”

See Southern on page 3

FUSSBALL IN DEN USA

Soccer in the United States. Game MVP Brandi Chastain slips through German defenders on her way down the field. The US women’s national team knocked off Germany on Saturday at Richardson Field. See story on page 16.

Mandy now has a pass to study alternative press in Latin America, and Jeni can reach for the stars.

INSIDE

This Week

Crankin’ it out? Students wait for yearbooks.

Shandley’s Chicago keg stand

Spring neide toes

Basketball season ends, but Spring fields to come

Court’s empty

Wind Ensemble goes north

U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

NEWS 2
ARTS & LIVING 9
OPINIONS 7
SPORTS 14