THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1996 15

WILDCAT ROUNDUP

In preparation for next week’s Southern Conference Championships, women’s track traveled to Duke this past weekend for a high-profile meet which included some potential Olympians. Venessa Sims tied her own school record in the high jump (5’ 6’’) taking 6th. Jamilah Sawyer continued to better her 100 grabbing 12th place, while the 4x100 relay team of Sawyer, Sims, Laura Burkholder, and Roxie Formey earned 12th (50.52, school record). The distance medley relay team of Kate Feldmeier, Burkholder, Marie Grisez, and Suzy Burr ran the second fastest time in school history (12:43.88).

“I’m very happy with this meet. We have a good shot of placing a decent amount of people at conference,” coach Beth Puckett said. Burr, the Southern Conference Newcomer of the Year for Cross Country, has been sidelined with a hip injury for most of the track season, but she ran at Duke this weekend and is expected to run at conference.

-Will Bradshaw

The Davidson golf team is having one of its best spring seasons in recent memory. The Wildcats opened at the Charleston Southern Invitational on Feb. 26 and 27, where they finished eighth out of nineteen. Then at the Citadel Invitational on Mar. 14 and 15, they placed fifth in a field of fifteen. The Wildcats were last of five teams at the Mercer Invitational on Apr. 1 and 2, but rebounded to fifth of nineteen at Campbell College’s Lonnie D. Small Invitational on Apr. 7 through 9.

Jason Lina has been the top Wildcat this spring. He placed fourth at Mercer, and fifth in the Small Invitational, shooting a four over par 76-70-74, the best tournament score for a Davidson golfer in recent years.

“The team came together and played really well this spring, especially in the last tournament, and we feel well prepared for the Southern Conference Championships (held at Stony Creek outside Greensboro today and tomorrow),” said Lina. Dan Tedrick, Jason Carlock, Andy McDaniel, Jason Lina, and David Alexander will play at Stony Creek.

-Clayton Schloss

Mexico/Caribbean $189 RT, Europe $169 OW, & Domestic Destinations Cheap! IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE PRICES START YOUR OWN DAMN AIRLINE Air-Tech, Ltd. 212/219-7000 info@aerotech.com http://campus.net/aerotech

Men’s Track

Coming off a strong performance at Wake Forest on Apr. 6 and then at Duke this past weekend, the team has high hopes for the conference championships this weekend in Johnson City, Tenn. Led by Eugene Jung, Wildcat field events performers surprised the competition with high marks in Winston-Salem. Jung won the shot put and placed third in discus. Dan Dearing’s personal best javelin throw of 164’ 10” was good enough for second, while Steve Hsieh also placed third in the 200-meter.

At Duke, in a field of over 60 teams, including Team Nike, Reebok Enclave, and some of the top college teams in the country, the Wildcats turned in their best performances of the year. “It was fantastic. We are peaking at the right time. Things are going well and we are in a good position going into conference,” said coach Gary Andrew. Hsieh ran personal records in both the 100 and the 200 (22.91, the first sub-23 second time in recent history). The 4x100 relay (Hsieh, Carlos Bowen, John Leslie, and Mike Albert) and 4x400 (Leslie, Dearing, Hsieh, and Albert) turned in season bests. Josh Cookson made the top ten performance list in the 5,000 (15:24.3).

-Dan Dearing

After splitting their matches in the last two weeks, the men’s tennis team now looks toward this weekend’s conference tournament in Greenville, SC. Bolstered by a clutch performance from doubles tandem Judson Sutherland and Theodore Kaplan, the Wildcats upset the College of Charleston, 3-2 on Apr. 6 at the Wake Forest Invitational, arguably their biggest win of the season.

“We had to raise our level of play when we realized the match was on the line,” said Sutherland. Assistant coach Bryce Plott was extremely pleased with his team’s effort: “It was one of the most impressive efforts I have seen in my time here at Davidson,” he said. Davidson fell to the host Demon Deacons though, and lost at UNC-Charlotte on Thursday. The final home match for Bill Mitchem and Scott Tonidandael is today.

-Tyler Epp

The Women’s Lacrosse team extended their winning streak to four this weekend, beating Longwood, 17-11, on Saturday.and Mt. St. Mary’s 12-8 on Sunday at Virginia Tech. The team also enjoyed a 15-12 victory Apr. 6 at Monmouth and a 14-12 win Apr. 9 at American. After a 1-4 start, the Wildcats now stand at 5-4. The young squad continues to improve. Juniors Alison Rhodes, Rebecca MacLean, and Sarah Hogan lead the Wildcats, while freshmen Linda Rothemund and Amanda Fleck continue to impress. The fine play of first-year goalie Tab Combs has also been key to Davidson’s recent success according to coach Mary Schwartz. Players are enthusiastic about the team’s current winning streak. “We’ve come a long way - we really feel like we’ve improved and we are as confident as ever,” says Amanda Fleck. -Dan Motz

Trio leads charge to conference meet
By Clayton Schloss & Michael Kruse
Staff Writer & Assistant Sports Editor

The Southern Conference Outdoor Championships will take place next weekend at ETSU, where Venessa Sims, Danielle Mall, and Jamilah Sawyer will be keys to the Wildcats’ success. “We have basically individual goals (for conference),” women's track coach Beth Puckett said. She hopes that Mall will defend her conference title in discus, and says that Sawyer and Sims should place in the 100 hurdles and high jump, respectively. Sims and Sawyer also compete in the 4x100 and 4x400 relays, two teams Puckett would like to see place in the top six next weekend. However, Sawyer’s goals stretch beyond those of her coach. “I want the 4x100 team to get under 50 seconds (its present best is 50.52),” Sawyer said. In addition, she wants to better 14.6 in the 100 hurdles, in which she is presently seeded third. Sims also has some individual goals in mind, like to clear 5’8” in the high jump and set a new school record in the process. “I have always enjoyed track the most because it is more oriented toward individual achievement. You not only have to compete against the other teams but also against yourself,” Sims said.

The terrific trio is not outspoken about their exploits, but prefers to lead by example. And for most of this year, their example has done plenty of talking. Sims was the only Davidson athlete, male or female, to score at the Southern Conference Indoor Championships in February, placing third in high jump despite spending the first semester in the Davidson in Philadelphia program. A junior from Decatur, Georgia, Sims played baseball, soccer, and basketball as a youngster. “Venessa is a great kid. She has a great work ethic, which really paid off in the indoor SCC’s, and she should do even better in the spring (championships),” said coach Beth Puckett.

Mall, who stayed busy through the winter as a key reserve on the women’s basketball team, has managed to score in several meets, winning one, since re-joining the team after the basketball tournament. Hailing from Long Grove, Illinois, she has been involved in track since sixth grade, when she competed in the high jump and shot put. She took up the discus in ninth grade, and last year she captured the Southern Conference discus championship and qualified for Junior Nationals. “I had a lot of fun last year, and making it into the Junior Nationals was incredible. I want to end the season on a good note and defend my Southern Conference title in the discus, but there is some tough competition out there this year,” said Mall.

Sawyer, just a freshman and already an impact performer in volleyball as well as track, has set school records in the hurdles for four consecutive weeks. She came here from Erie, Pennsylvania, where she played softball and volleyball. She began running track and cross country in ninth grade. “Jamilah is an extremely talented athlete with lots of potential. We hope she can finish in the top three in the hurdles at the outdoor SCC’s,” said Puckett.

PreSession: May 6-17
First Five-Week: May 20-June 25
Summer Ten-Week: May 20-August 6
Teacher Institutes: June 12-July 2
Second Five-Week: June 27-August 6
Special Institutes and Residential Courses: Summer Nights

UNC Charlotte Uptown
Call 704/547-2424 today or return the coupon by mail or fax to:
Office of Continuing Education, Extension and Summer Programs,
UNC Charlotte, 9201 University City Blvd., Charlotte, NC 28223-0001
Fax: 704/547-3158

Please send me a free summer schedule
Name:
Address:
City:

An EOE/Affirmative Action Institution