A LIEN. DA LU xe iy at ORTA LIBERTAS

VOLUME LXXXVII MONDAY, MARCH 25, 1996 NUMBER 21

Students hold minors forum;
By CATHERINE ANDERSON
News Editor

Wednesday afternoon, students and two faculty members gathered in the 900 Room for an open discussion on the issue of
minors.

“I thought that the students were extremely supportive, and I was very disappointed that more faculty didn’t show up, especially
considering Warren’s invitation the week before at the faculty meeting, and also considering the fact that we called a number
of them and posted flyers just about everywhere in Chambers. We were a little disappointed that they didn’t show more
interest in our efforts,” says Junior Liz Abernathy, Council of Academic Affairs Co-chair.

“I think the interaction between students went well,” says Rick Onkey. “We were trying to create a contact between students
and faculty, but since only two faculty showed up, that was disappointing.”

SGA President Warren Buford agrees. “I think it went really well. It was great to see so many students who
had a vested interest in bringing minors to Davidson, and students who brought unanswered questions [to the forum]. I wish
a larger group had been there to listen,” he says. “I hope it helps,” he adds.

“The forum proved that students need to continue approaching faculty... It’s [now] going to come down on our efforts and
energy,” says SGA Vice Pres. Clair Freeman. The faculty will vote April 2.

Self-study explores issues and problems of homosexuality on campus
By NARESH NAGELLA
Assistant News Editor

For all students, recent changes in the college atmosphere have made Davidson more accepting. The Self-Study on the Student Experience,
though, cites many areas in need of improvement, especially in those concerning the homosexual student.

The Self-Study states that in 1990-1991, there “were acts of homophobic intolerance directed towards openly gay students on campus.” These
acts included death threats, food throwing, and the writing of homophobic graffiti on posters in Chambers. Since then, the creation
of the student organization, Friends of Lesbians and Gays (FLAG) has greatly promoted open-mindedness towards issues of sexuality. FLAG’s Sexuality
Forum and successful fashion shows have helped heighten awareness about the presence of gay students and has nurtured a sensitivity
between people of any sexual persuasion.

See Self-Study on page 4

By SARAH HANKINS
Guest Writer

“Move Along — It’s only a Penis!” read one of the protestor’s signs in front of Charlotte Repertory Wednesday night.
A group of 150 protestors marched the streets in support of Angels in America, the controversial play by Tony Kushner.
Loudly chanting protests, 12 Davidson students joined the march with signs blazoned with everything from “Thank God for Angels” to
“Clip the Right Wing.”

The controversy began with Reverend Joe Chambers, who has previously attacked Barney the Dinosaur for being a bad role model
for children. Chambers and his followers, the Concerned Charlotteans, object to a nude scene inthe play and believe the play’s
subject matter to be offensive. His preachings have stirred up the Charlotte community and caused a flurry of letters to
the Charlotte Observer for and against Angels in America. Also, Chambers has accused the play of breaking North Carolina’s indecent
exposure law. This plea resulted in the threat of the police arresting the actor if he performed the scene as
written. Because of the controversy and possible arrest, the owners of the Charlotte Repertory Theater threatened Wednesday to pull the
play if the scene was performed as written. The actors managed to receive an injunction that would protect them from
arrest for ten days, after which they would discuss the matter in court. With this protection, the actors performed the
scene as written, but the court date of March 28th is fast approaching. Chambers and his Concerned Charlotteans declared that
they would march the streets in protest of the play on Wednesday’s opening night.

The Davidson College Theater Department got updates during the day Wednesday from Theater Professor Dr. Joe Gardner, who designed the
set for Angels in America. “We knew what was occurring in Charlotte blow by blow,” said Teresa White.

Angels tries to take flight this term.

President Kelton to resign as Executive Assistant
Fifteen-year veteran will stay on as Director of Institutional Research
By Adam Hickey
Staff Writer

Citing his plans to retire from the college at the end of the next academic year, John Kelton, Director of
Institutional Research and Executive Assistant to the President, will resign the latter of his two positions at the end of
this term. Kelton, who graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Davidson in 1951 with a Bachelor’s degree in Psychology, first joined
the faculty as an Associate Professor of Psychology in 1959. He served 15 years (1970-1985) as the Chair of the
department before becoming the Associate Dean of the Faculty in 1985, a position he held for two years before he
was named the Director of Institutional Research, a post he holds to this day.

The position of Assistant to the President was formerly a one-year internship filled by a Davidson student who graduated the
previous year. Kelton says that it was the “heavy demands of the Campaign for Davidson” which increased the Assistant’s representative
role, thus allowing Kuykendall more flexibility in his schedule. As the Executive Assistant, Kelton represents the President’s Office on a
host of various internal and external committees and councils. He also “coordinates meetings and activities of the Board of Trustees,”
“serves as liaison to the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools,” and “performs other duties and functions as assigned by
the President,” according to the official job description. In short, Kelton has acted as the right-hand man of the president.
“Or left, I don’t know,” he adds, chuckling. Asked if he advises the president, Kelton responded, “I tell him what
I think, yeah,” but he was quick to point out that the job is not part of a hierarchy which
places him between the president and others.

See Kelton on page 5

INSIDE THIS WEEK
Kids First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

NEWS
Karing about Frat plays with KAmmunity. KAtie. 5
Kappa Sigma responds to

OPINIONS
Mark Kasner plays O’Connor first seed
World-famous fiddler
Freshman scores big.

ARTS & LIVING
SPORTS
