THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

“Better one suffer, than a nation grieve.” - Dryden

A great patriot, wasn’t he? If I liked patriotism, I would be really impressed by that passionate declaration of love
for country. I bet a lot of you are Davidson patriots. You probably love your little town so much you
want to burst. I don’t feel that way about where I live. But, alas, (sigh) I live in Cornelius. It
took a long time for me to be able to say that. Not that Cornelius is a bad place, it
is a very funny place actually. I just hate the word Cornelius so much. Why would someone name a town
Cornelius? I suppose the obvious reason is that it was the founding father’s name. Cornelius is your basic Roman name,
but that does not make it a pretty sound. There is something about a name that aspires to evoke greatness
and civic pride and falls so short that is a bit charming. In a sick way. To a sick and
sarcastic person such as myself.

We tried to live in Davidson, but RLO prevented that with some sorry lottery numbers. Our previous landlord was more
emphatic about his refusal to accommodate our request for another year on Watson Street. We don’t miss him. So, we
were relegated to Cornelius. For a while, when asked that ever-so-popular, “Where do you live?” I replied, “Behind Blockbuster.” That
sounded even worse and was

Kristen Richardson

Robert Williams Reunion 2046

Following is an excerpt from a piece written by Dean of Faculty, Robert C. Williams which ran in the Spring
1996 Davidson Journal.

Those of us who returned to Davidson for our 50th reunion in 2046 were few in number, survivors in our
“global maturity.” As the reading of names of our deceased indicated, AIDS, the Ebola virus, and the mad cow epidemic
have all taken their toll in recent years. The disastrous decline in global sperm count reduced our legacies to Davidson
even further. Nevertheless, we were glad to see each other and to revisit the Cornelius-Lincolnton-Kannapolis Research Triangle once more after
so many years.

Davidson, you will be pleased to know, remains a nationally ranked small liberal arts college of 14,000 students, nearly 40
in residence. The college’s beloved Statement of Productivity which we revised 50 years ago is still in place. Tuition remains
under $1 million per year, again paralleling closely the cost of a new mid-size helicopter. The staff has been greatly
reduced from its peak of 75,000 a few years back and have, at any rate, all been promoted to facilitators,
so that our U.S. News and World Report ranking has stayed high. The donation of 400 acres of artificial turf
by a former golf coach eliminated 86 groundskeeper positions. Combining the religion and athletic departments into a single department of
entertainment would have kept the athletic budget below 92 percent of the operating budget overall if the merger had not
required raising the basketball floor another three feet further toward heaven.

The most puzzling thing about the reunion was the large number of stories we heard about the great Duke Power
Blackout, the day a few years back when power failures and a solar eclipse, together with electronic pulses from the
Chilean nuclear attack on Peru, completely zapped the IT infrastructure of the college. For a period of many months students
and facilitators discovered that they were once again compelled by the failure of technology to engage in a moral enterprise
of learning and teaching grounded in faith. The relationship with the Presbyterian Church UN was renegotiated. Task forces on athletics
sprang up again like mushrooms, struggling with the old division 21 or 23 questions. Humanities instructors took over the campus
classroom. There were real conversations — face-to-face interactions, as we called them — about topics discussed in the books which
had escaped The Burning. The library ceased for a while to be a Museum of Curriculum and became a place
where students actually read books and conversed with their facilitators. Most remarkable was that the banned politically incorrect keywords began
to appear on campus — mission, purpose, character, honor, community, warmth, love, humane instincts, wisdom, ethics, values, friendship, commitment. I
must say I had not seen those words on the home page for years, ever since the old Honor System
gave way to the Information Sharing and Caring Team.

And one more thing; if you’re interested in learning more about Reunion and the Great Blackout, there is lots more
on our reunion home page. It’s under GSD, for “God Save Davidson.”rumors. Write for opinions. Call Kristen, — 2148

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1996

Corntown Shuffle

Almost always followed by, “In Cornelius?” To which I had to choke out, “Yes.” So, I live behind Blockbuster in
Cornelius. I have a pool and tennis courts and a weight room. I also have neighbors. And they have kids,
and the kids have bikes and the bikes have training wheels and that is frustrating when you are late to
class and the sea of children will not part.

Inspired by the sheer number of children, I tried to figure out the demographics of my living arrangements. I finally
did so with the help of a fellow Cornelian and friend who lives at the other apartment complex in Cornelius.
With her help, I discovered that she lived in the swingin’ singles apartments (Alta Harbor) and I lived in a
halfway house for lake-bound families whose homes are not yet finished (One Norman Square). You probably didn’t even know there
was a singles scene in Cornelius. I didn’t and I was happy without that knowledge.

I am not being entirely fair to Cornelius, or, as it is sometimes euphemistically referred to, Lake Norman. It can
be a rocking good time. For example, after tiring of a party in Davidson, a friend and I went to
a bar in Cornelius. We met some people who asked us a lot of questions and drank five drinks to
our one. Another incident of fun being had in Cornelius was reported by one of my roommates. She heard a
snappy and interpretive rendition of “Bust a Move” on karaoke night at the Tropicana. With the tragic demise of Backstreet,
Cornelius could be the answer. Hell, you can all sleep at our place. Just kidding.

So what if Cornelius does not satisfy my aesthetic need. With my postmodern propensity for anti-cool, I have embraced Corntown
as my (very temporary) home. So, I’m waiting in vain for the t-shirt that reads “London, Paris, Rome, Cornelius.”

Senior Kristen Richardson is co-opinions editor of The Davidsonian.

THE MANY MOODS OF BOB DOLE

Michael Kruse

Pam Kelley of the Observer wrote a front-page article in Saturday’s paper called “Home sweet dorm.” She led, “Not that
many years ago, college students arrived on campus ready to share a barrackslike room with at least one other person
and a bathroom with a putrid shade of ‘50s green and the entire hall.”

Then I started to look around my tiny - no, cozy - and humble 4th Belk abode. A sink. Neat.
The desks, they’re hardly big enough to hold a computer, let alone a computer and some adequate writing space. And
they’re stuck to the wall.

Home sweet dorm? UNCCers pay $859 a semester for the cheapest housing available and $1,175 for the most expensive Poplar
Hall apartments, which contain four single bedrooms, a living room, and a kitchen area. Irma Wolfe, a UNCC junior, is
quoted as saying, “This is what I mused to growing up — my own bedroom and bathroom.” “Today’s students expect
better.”

“And so it often comes as a shock when they (students) move into the standard 10-by-14-foot rooms ... Where they
study, eat and sleep beside another person,” writes Kelley.

And apparently, according to Kelley, many area collegiates are getting better. Winthrop University installed refrigerator-freezers and microwaves in every dorm
room this summer, the Observer reports. At Wake Forest, every dorm floor is equipped with a printer and each room
has two computer plug-in jacks per person per room. And Western Carolina offers cable TV in rooms for an extra
$50 a semester.

By the end of the article, I was drooling at the descriptions of posh apartments and luxurious amenities and wondering
just where our quarter-of-a-hundred grand goes. There are two beds, but one phone jack. And no computer jacks to speak
of. Hell, hardwiring is a foreign concept on campus, so we need modems to get online from anywhere but the
makeshift computer center in the Belk sub-basement. And what do we pay for this? The cheapest housing available, a triple,
goes for $1,075 a semester. Students living in the senior apartments are shelling out $1865 a semester.

“It’s character-building, I guess,” suggests another UNCC student. Well, here at little, uppity, prestigious, outlandishly expensive Davidson, there’s a whole
lot of character building going on in shock city. At least we don’t go to the Citadel.

Michael Kruse is a co-editor of the Sports section of The Davidsonian.
