MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1996 7 The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
MARY CLARE JALONICK

Cartoonist
GREG GARRISON

Arts & Living Editor
SUSAN RUGGIERO

Assoc. Arts & Living Editor
JILL WILLIAMS

Business Manager
CAROLINE BYNUM

Associate Editor
TERESA WHITE

Sports Editors
WILL BRADSHAW
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL

Advertising Managers
BETH BACON
MEREDITH LUCIUS

News Editor
MICHAEL KRUSE

Associate News Editor
RANDY HARTWELL

Photo Editor
BEN DeLISA

Circulation Manager
McNEIL CARSWELL

Opinions Editors
NINA BLOUNT
CARRIE BLACKBURN

Copy Editors
CLAY LENHART
KRISTEN RICHARDSON
JILL WILLIAMS

Web Page Managers
BRAD CHASE
DANIEL MOTZ
ERIC PENDERGRASS

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

P00 PARKING STICKERS. Towieff
I MUST ADMIT, I WAS OUT THE WAZOO.
Voice-MAIL INTRIGUED, AND SO I DECIDED
ON THE OTHER END OF IT, TO INVESTIGATE.
MY SLEUTHING BROUGHT ME TO THIS OFFICE,
WHERE I FOUND CHANGES THAT THE MAN BEHIND

LETTERS

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

We want a celebrity

Purpose

In the past few weeks, The Davidsonian has printed opinions articles that have generated controversy. Some people have a problem with this. To reprint the first amendment would seem dramatic and trite. However, we can offer a brief statement of purpose for each section. If you should find that we violate any of these delineated intentions, then call us on it. Write us a letter. Give us a call. Request a meeting. Denounce us publicly.

Simply, news stories report on-campus events and discuss, unbiasedly, on-campus issues. Opinions articles are submitted by students who would like to offer their view on a particular issue to the campus. They do not reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board, and we publish what we receive. Arts and Living features review (subjectively) fine arts events and campus happenings. Sports articles report on sports. This should clear up any misconceptions.

We welcome criticism — your opinion will help us create a more respectable publication. But do not ask us to violate the first amendment. Davidson is a small place, and any freedoms or facts that are censored could have a detrimental effect on the student body. We, along with other campus publications, are your voice. Use us as such, and let others do so as well.

Parking

Hello, Town of Davidson! Are you listening? The students are speaking. The merchants are speaking. The new parking policy does not work. The designated area has sat three-quarters empty every day. Spaces in front of a busy college campus should be filled with campus cars, not the cars of merchants who would rather park behind their businesses, which are closer to them anyway.

Angry students and faculty have been spotted combing main street recently, counting the number of spaces designated for merchants and denied to students. It is possible that as many, or even more, merchants exist as spaces exist for them, but they are not parking in them. Case closed.

Off-campus students, in particular, need these spaces. They pay taxes to the town in order to receive benefits. Davidson College feels affectionate toward the Town of Davidson. It would be sad for all involved if that relationship turned sour or competitive. So please, work with us on the issue of town parking. Give us back the spaces that were rightfully ours, even if just for two hours at a time.

Politics

Congratulations to those who facilitated the outing of the latent political junkie in all of us on Sunday night. College Republicans and College Democrats did a fine job of preparing for the Clinton/Dole debates, decorating the 900 room and providing political entertainment for a packed room of students. And whoever is responsible for the television in the library deserves kudos as well, for library hermits eagerly crawled out of their carrels to the sound of campaign rhetoric and election year banter.

Last January President Kuykendall told The Davidsonian that he noticed a trend: “students are not, just now, very much motivated to become engaged in politics.” We often say, also, that Davidson students are starved for an occasional outside breath of fresh air or an out-of-classroom intellectual enterprise. Thanks for proving tous, and to them, that this isn’t always the case.

# tore

To the Editors:

An exciting opportunity now exists for students on this campus. We have the ability to nominate a new professor. The Knight Foundation recently gave a generous amount of money to Davidson College for the establishment of the James Knox Batten Professorship in Public Policy. Jim Batten, a career journalist [Ed. note: Batten began his illustrious career on The Davidsonian], was a Davidson alumnus and the former CEO of Knight-Ridder, Inc. This professorship will bring someone accomplished in public policy—journalism, politics, etc.—to our campus to teach for one semester each year. Most likely this person will teach two seminars and give various public lectures based on his/her life experience. It is an interdisciplinary position that stands to affect our entire community.

Alongside a panel of professors, I represent students on the nominating committee. Some public figures already considered for next year are: Bill Bradley, Michael Dukakis, Harvey Gantt, Nancy Kassebaum, and Jason McManus. We have the money and the prestige to attract incredible people, so we’re aiming high. If you can think of some renowned figures whom you would like to see walking around campus, let me know. I invite all students to email or call me (-6344) with their personal nominees. This is an opportunity too good to pass up. I look forward to your ideas.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Support the

To the Editors:

Last Monday night I went to something spectacular. The Davidson College Wind Ensemble put on an astounding concert. A concert that should have drawn a huge crowd. Unfortunately, only about 50 members of the student body and faculty showed up. I know that there wasn’t much in the way of advertisement for this, but I’m sure that more than two or three score of us knew about the event. They managed to pull off a magnificent concert with as much professional air as I’ve seen anywhere with only three weeks and seven scheduled practices. This kind of determination and talent is not an everyday occurrence.

I am disappointed in the populace of Davidson College for not showing more support for our resident musicians. This was, by far, the best use I’ve made of my time since coming to this school in August. I am not only disappointed in the size, or lack thereof, of attendance at the concert, but I am also saddened by the fact that so many missed out on this experience. There will be many more opportunities, but I’m scared that, once again, most of us will not take advantage of them. Check out the Calendar of Events, or ask someone who would know, but don’t simply let opportunities pass you by. Become exposed. We support the football team, the soccer teams, and even the flickerball teams, but so far, not the arts. I know the kind of hard mental and physical work it takes to be part of something like a football team or a musical ensemble. Giving your best is a hard thing to do when it seems that no one appreciates it.

My congratulations and admiration go out to Dr. Lawing and to the Wind Ensemble. And to everyone else, I sincerely hope that you can find time during your busy nights to go out and support your fellow Davidsonians.

Jim Rice

Show your good taste and high IQ. Wear a Davidsonian t-shirt. Fashionable. Comfortable. Versatile. All this and a handy pocket, too. Yours for $10. Call Caroline at -2148.