SPORTS 14 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1996

Kruse’s Cubby
A Little Respect
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Assistant Sports Editor

The Davidson men’s basketball team is in the midst of one of its best seasons in history and seems to be well on their way to an NCAA bid (via victory in the conference tournament or otherwise), but the pathetic Belk Arena turnout still hovers around a thousand fans every game. Granted, Davidson scholars comprise a busy bunch, but two hours on game night is not going to make the definitive difference between success and failure as a human being.

The Wildcats have four more home dates this season, two of which will be televised live on SportSouth (Feb. 17 vs. The Citadel and Feb. 24 vs. Marshall). Consider them opportunities to show some school spirit. Make signs. Utilize body paint to the utmost. Heckle. Be loud, be obnoxious, and most importantly, be there.

Speaking of basketball teams that don’t get the respect they deserve. The women are on track to have their best campaign in history and their attendance is even worse than the guys’. You’ve already been instructed how to remedy this situation.

While we’re on the topic of R-E-S-P-E-C-T, let’s talk about UMass. Although they are #1 in both major national polls, the so-called experts still address other schools as potential Final Four material before finally discussing the Minutemen, if ever. UMass is the country’s only unbeaten team at 21-0. Hence, they have so far lived up to their team motto, “Refuse to Lose.” And that mentality, let alone the unblemished record, should count for something. Talent alone doesn’t win championships.

On the subject of ridiculously masterful basketball, the Bulls are 41-4. Throughout the first half of the NBA season, Jordan and company have dropped just enough games to lose a single playoff series. I’m going to go out on a limb at this early juncture and propose that, unless Chicago’s team plane plunges into the side of a mountain and burns in a blazing heap of destruction,

See Respect on page 15

LET’S GET HIGH
Cheerleaders propel Brooke Bagwell skyward, dazzling the crowd.
Josh Glazer

Swimmers race phantoms from Emory
By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

The final swim meet of the season against Emory was thrown a curveball by the weekend ice storm. The team was scheduled to leave for Emory on Friday afternoon, but their departure was delayed by the storm. On Saturday, it was decided that it would be unsafe to travel, but that would not keep the ingenious and inventive swim team from still having their meet. The two schools decided to swim in their own pools, and fax their results to each other so they could be compiled and a winner declared.

“Tomorrow we will know the results,” head coach Rich DeSelm said. “We tried to put a positive slant on a difficult situation. We got some good out of it; anything that we can get to help people achieve their goals is good. The weather was just not in our favor this weekend.”

Davidson started their meet at 11, and the Wildcats were finished by the time Emory had started at 3. “It’s unique to swim a meet like this because of the weather. It’s a very personal test and it requires a lot more focusing because you don’t have the other team there,” senior Churchill Hooff said. “Some people stepped up and swam well today despite that and when you can do that it builds a lot of confidence in your ability.”

Many of the team members said it was difficult to get prepared to swim and to motivate themselves. “Sitting around all weekend wondering if we were going to have a meet made it difficult to prepare,” senior Rion Smith said. Freshman Jay Rosenquest added, “It was difficult for

See Ghosts on page 16

Fish still run the river wild
By JOHN ROG
Outdoors Columnist

Looking down from a high bluff, I could seewhere the river used to run wild and free. I could picture where every shallow, fast run would be, and I could see where a small inlet would fill with water and flood the cypress trees. I could imagine the patchwork of deep pools and undercut banks that would hold many hungry trout and bass, and I saw a small sandy flat near the canopy of sycamores that would provide a perfect place to pitch a tent. All of this was in my imagination because, much like many rivers, this one was plugged by a hydro-power plant. The age of water-generated power took off in the mid-1900s, and unfortunately, the environment was the big loser. Not many thought of the environmental consequences at the time, but when biologists reported a massive drop in the spawning of the Pacific Salmon, some eyes were opened. Not only were the dams an eyesore, but they had altered the river ecosystems in a drastic and sometimes deadly way. The salmon spawning runs may never be the same, but we can still salvage some recreational value from these waters.

Fishing behind these dams still provides many quality opportunities for every type of fisherman. In times of low water generation, fly fishers and spin fishers alike can probe the deep pools and shallow runs by wading or by canoe. At low water, the rivers are much like they used to be, and the fish will hold in the obvious places. Look for trout in shallow, rocky runs and in the front of pools. Cast for walleye, smallmouth, or Kentucky bass behind boulders in fast current, but try drifting a crawdad or nightcrawler through the deeper pools. Pay close attention to undercut banks in these areas, for if you can cast your fly or lure above the undercut and let it swing.

See Wild Fish on page 15

Wrestlers still fighting despite losses
By JOHN ROE
Staff Writer

Despite the bandages and black eyes, the wrestling team continues to perform very well as individuals, but the team is still trying to find a winning combination.

Wrestling

“We are the battling walking wounded,” said coach Tom Oddo of the Davidson wrestling team after last weekend’s competition at the Lancer Duals. “We went into all of our matches beat up and banged up, but that didn’t keep us from fighting hard.”

In last weekend’s tournament, Davidson went 0-4, losing to PSU (18-26), Norfolk State (19-28), Virginia Tech (9-36), and Gardner Webb (9-37).

“We continue to give up too many points by forfeit, so we are fighting an uphill battle the whole match,” said coach Oddo. The Wildcats lost to Norfolk State and PSU by one forfeit each, but the team score does not tell the whole story. On a day where the team went 0-4, individual wrestlers continued to shine. Sophomore Jake Hamilton went 2-1 on the day, improving his overall record to 6-3, while freshman Christian Baker (11-11) split his four matches. George Escaravage fought hard and won two matches, despite wrestling up a weight class all day. Ben Wall, at 190 lbs, and Chip Stewart, at heavyweight, continue to pummel opponents. Wall improved his record to 15-6 by winning three matches and losing one, while Stewart went 3-1 as well, improving to 10-4 on the season. Wall and Stewart have 13 pins between them, showing their ability to finish their opponents.

The wrestling team seems to keep within striking distance in every match, but until they send a full and healthy lineup to the mat, the gap might not be shut.

“Those that are wrestling are improving and becoming much more competitive,” said coach Oddo. “But until the injured wrestlers are able to return, we will continue to fight an uphill battle in the team score.”