THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS APRIL 29, 1996

SENIOR SEND-OFF

Ode to Senior Spring: making eyes at Harris Teeter

“I’d like six plain bagels, please. Actually, just one will do. You can’t toast it? I’ll take it home.” Then
to Harris Teeter and, reflected in the doors of the frozen food section, I glimpse the orange jumpsuit. Shielded by
corn Niblets, I make eyes at the Unabomber. Three weeks, I think to myself. (Where is the yearbook from last
year?) Returning home, the Martin Court fox reminds me of the key: it’s all about proximity. I take a bite
of my bagel. The chimes. I wish I had a pencil-thin mustache to go with these marching ants. It’s like
a black fly...

Lessons Learned:
1) No license? Sara, remember to bring your passport to 21-year-old night.
2) The Mighty E. Dreamworld says, “This too shall pass.”
3) Accept the inevitable smooch (i.e., become masters of your own destiny while biking on Bat Cave or streaking in
Female Form).
4) The rain it raineth every day (and the chimes).
5) Leave campus over Easter break. It’s magically delicious!
6) Fight taxidermy and nymphets.
7) Earth Day reminds us not only to eat hamburgers on paper plates but also to...
8) Date functions: flank, forget, and then order the picture.
9) For maximum effect on The Date: always wear the red scarf and non...
10) Dfinger and make eyes over email.

Well, here it is. My grand finale. The pinnacle of my Davidsonian career. It’s been quite the wild ride: a
veritable fiesta of amateur journalism. As my parting gift, I think I'll leave you, the faithful reader, with a sliver
of my infinite knowledge, another lesson in life from El Jefe. So in the great tradition of space-filling Opinions articles,
here are the top ten things I learned in college:

10.) Professors are never wrong. Professors here, for the most part, have Ph.D.s. For those of you that don’t already
know, that is an abbreviation of the Greek phrase “I am smarter than you.” If you say something on the
border of challenging this intellectual supremacy, you are usually countered with the hated and feared retort of “can you show
me that in the text.” Or perhaps, for the more blunt instructors of the math department, a simple “prove it”
usually suffices.
9.) Don’t ever invent fictional characters for newspaper articles, especially if the description of those characters is less than flattering.
Every friend remotely resembling that description will undoubtedly get upset. The term “pear-shaped” is definitely out.
8.) If you are a guy, shy away from cameras on self-selection night, especially if the cameraman works for The
Davidsonian. Otherwise, like my roommate, you may end up living with peanut butter on your nipple — or worse.
7.) The “freshman 15” is a very real phenomenon. If you live in Belk as a freshman, then you understand
the problems created by undersized mirrors. When I was a young buck residing on Second West, I put on about
15 pounds of what I thought was pure muscle. When I returned home, I discovered to my horror when looking
in a full-size mirror that all my cherished muscle had somehow slid from my arms and shoulders to my waistline.
Perhaps gravity is just stronger in my hometown of Atlanta, but I doubt that.
6.) If you live in the apartments, do not, I repeat, do not eat any food left in your refrigerator
from the former tenants. The shelf life of Steak’Mmmms may be impressive, but remember that there are some natural by-products
in them, and those elements tend to rot.
5.) At Davidson, we don’t just go to parties and get drunk. Instead, we dress up in ridiculous outfits and
then get drunk. Think about it, it’s true.
4.) The lofts in the down-the-hill dorms are very dangerous.
3.) Here are the stages of romantic engagement: hook up, “hanging out,” followed by “seeing each other,” followed by a
full-fledged fling, then...

Bill Gullan
Out of the Gull’s Nest
Bill takes a last look from his Davidson roost

There is no time nor room for a manifesto, ala the Unabomber, nor do I have the inclination to spew
out some platitudes, couched in sentimentality. Many of you were not students here when I wrote my column every week,
and surely many of you who were never read it. Advice is not my thing, either; you can figure out
how you should live your life far better than I could. So in lieu of a traditional Gull’s Nest or
a self-indulgent Ann Landers-style column, allow me to share a few things I’ve noticed these four years:

— Sometimes “celebrating diversity” inadvertently means breaking down unity. Our differences spice up our education, but our similarities breed friendships.
— There is no more imbecilic act than taking a swing at somebody. Why does someone who says something, no
matter how vile or offensive, deserve a bloody nose?
— Emotions are irrepressible and indispensable. However, many a poor decision has been made, or an argument lost because emotion
reared its head.
— One great thing about Davidson professors is that they thrive on disagreement, rather than become annoyed by it.
— People who bemoan “anti-intellectualism” at Davidson do not realize that with our small classes and emphasis on discussion and
interpretation, we boast more intellectualism inside the classroom than most schools have at all. Intellectuals need not wear black and
drink coffee; they only need to take seriously the charge of examining oneself and the universe.
— We are not allowed to stereotype anybody (except a Jesse Helms supporter).
— I have never seen anything like the loyalty and affection people feel for Davidson. It’s wonderful to be part
of this tradition.
— Police officers who are polite and who smile receive more cooperation than those with a chip on their shoulder.
— This campus would be a lot safer and more fun if the drinking age was...dating, then whipped. Then you
do something cheesy like lavaliere or get engaged. If you have a special someone, make sure you know your status.
There is great potential for argument otherwise. With over half of our students still eighteen, the student and faculty block
party at Patterson Court has degenerated into a stupid name-calling war replete with exaggeration, uninformed judgment, and suspicion all around.

People here sometimes take everything so seriously. Knowing facts means very little. The facts change every generation. What our education
really teaches us is how to think; what one should do in attacking a problem. Who would you want to
hire? Someone who knows a lot of information, or someone who has the ability to adapt to new information? The
first is an automaton, and his/her effectiveness is ephemeral. The second is flexible, and his/her effectiveness is permanent. Isn’t this
stupid? Why can we not prove our belief in equality by our actions, rather than by being forced to use
awkward language which ruins the flow of a sentence? Thanks for reading.

Despite my greatest efforts to reform the meaning of “hoochie” into a respectable term, the word just hasn’t broken through
into polite conversation. Such a shame because, as I have said before, the word “hoochie” is just so fun to
say. It’s light, it makes people smile, and it rolls off the tongue with such grace and ease.

Four years. Almost one hundred thousand dollars. No job. This school should pay me — or at least let me
stick around so I don’t have to grow up. Chow.

And so it ends; this dance with Davidson that winds and twists but never slows down. I chose Davidson haphazardly
at best. Intoxicated by the springtime tulips and the warm hellos, I turned to my father after an hour on
campus and said, “This is it.” Now, in just weeks, I will turn to him once again and say, “So
it was.” But what was ‘it’ really, in words and visions? We can all name the concrete elements of our
existence here. They are different for each one of us — choices we made on a whim and with thought.
Who we were before Davidson and who we are now are not descriptive things. Instead, they are narratives, collages of
happenings, excerpts from personal pages of our lives, hodgepodges of non-sequitur and sequential happenings. These intricacies — these years —
begin to overlap in the end when we summarize our beings; a summation that replicates the true learning experiences we
encountered here.

We learned to love. Whether it was our friends, a special someone or mate, a sports team, we learned how
amazing love could be and how much it could hurt when disappointed. We learned to change, but not lower, our
expectations. We learned to pick up pieces and glue them back together, not just our own but the pieces of
those around us as well. And when it seemed as if all the world had darkened with our own personal
despair, we acknowledged that part of suffering and learned to become stronger and wiser.

We learned to serve. Each one of us recognized that we were not complete until we responded to the world
around us. We went beyond what was convenient for us, what was in our comfort zone, what was familiar and
non-threatening. When we stopped to realize this world is not necessarily about what makes us happiest or how we can
benefit the most, it was when we did the greatest good, for ourselves and others. Many of us chose to
listen to the choirs of need and respond to those problems we had the talents to assist, thereby lightening the
burdens of those around us.

We learned to think. In our thinking, we questioned. We questioned ourselves, each other, our families, our professors, this institution,
society, and the world. We leave this institution now with the imprints of our thoughts. As we developed, as we
thought, we pushed for change or dialogue or tradition. Whatever our battle cry may have been, we learned to develop
our arguments, come to the table and discuss. When the episodes of our conflicts did not unleash themselves in this
sequence, we learned the pain and complexities of conflict and the delicacy of reversing damage.

We learned who we were becoming, who we were not. While often painful, we finish as much more complete entities
than when we started. We learned to open up, dive into the confessional and free ourselves from private thoughts. We
learned to speak our love — whatever that love might be — without apology, to show our passion without remorse
and to share ourselves without expectations.

We learned to learn. We learned in our classrooms, from our friends, and our experiences. We found out how to
investigate and reach conclusions, how to challenge, how to question. We learned that the cycle of learning is never complete;
it is always broken; the volumes are never full. So what we must do is work throughout our lives to
fill those volumes, to fill our volumes. This objective is not just for our own personal betterment, but to help
those around us.

We learned to change. The one truth of any existence is that life is a pathway of changes and we
must adapt to survive. We changed our hair color, our majors, our roommates, our friends, our fears, our hopes, and
our priorities. We changed who we wanted to be, what we were becoming. But even as we changed, we trembled
at the change of others or this institution. We yearned for some consistency, for comfort. If we were in such
a constant state of flux, it seemed disarming that everything else was as well. Now comes our greatest change of
all. We have moments of our futures. I wish you...
