THE DAVIDSONIAN

Diane Keaton, Goldie Hawn, Bette Midler. Entertainment Weekly

By Becky LATANICH & KARINA KHOOVURI
Guest Writers

As refined, artsy films seem to be the common trend this early fall season, First Wives Club thankfully broke the
monotony with a refreshing, comical twist on a potentially mundane topic - husbands leaving their wives for younger women. After
a week of nothing other than homework, we were infinitely glad that First Wives Club was not the depressing portrayal
of three neglected middle-aged women (Goldie Hawn, Bette Midler, Diane Keaton), but rather a light-hearted, liberating story of rekindled friendship.

Reunited at a friend’s funeral some twenty years after their college graduation, these three friends discover that each of their
marriages has gone to pieces. They now strive to creatively rebuild their lives through less than conventional methods. Written to
accommodate the acting talents of Hawn, Midler, and Keaton, First Wives Club provided some good, although unoriginal laughs. The supporting
cast, notably Bronson Pinchot (as the saucy interior decorator), Ivana Trump (as herself), Maggie Smith (as Midler’s wealthy confidant), Elizabeth
Berkeley and Sarah Jessica Parker (as Hawn and Midler’s respective rivals), lent a creative spark to the predictable humor.

At times, the movie bordered on ludicrous, and other times overly sentimental. But in retrospect, these seemingly melodramatic scenes were
necessary to add a dimension of reality and to differentiate it from the slapstick comedy characteristic of Billy Madison and
Tommy Boy. Overall, First Wives Club is entertaining and nice to look at. But, if you are looking to spend
$4.25 at the movies next weekend, your money would probably be better spent checking out Hugh Grant and Gene Hackman
in Extreme Measures. Save this one for video.

Agents of Good Roots
Infamous band rivets bones and saturates souls

By Kate GREENE
Concert Reviewer

Agents of Good Roots, an infamous band among Davidson students, graced the musical cosmos with two local shows recently, on
campus: during Homecoming at SAE and last Thursday at Jack Straw’s in Charlotte. Both shows musically riveted everyone’s bones, saturating
souls, heads, and auras.

The four-person ensemble hails from Richmond, VA. Andrew Winn, the classy lead singer, guitarist, and pianist, claims that their sound
derives from its economy, with only four band members, in contrast with their expansive sound. The members, especially Winn, have
studied the theories of counterpoint and have been influenced by jazz and the soul of Stevie Wonder. Driving the stair-stepping
harmonics and theoretical counterpoint is a danceable, exploratory beat, wild saxophone, and Winn’s scratchy, bassy vocals.

Saturday’s show at SAE paled in comparison to Thursday’s Jack Straw’s performance. The band took the stage next to the
mixing station for the Homecoming bar. It was also the soundman’s birthday, which created more distractions. Despite the foggy atmosphere
of both the band and the crowd, classics such as “Straight” drew everyone out of the mist. The beat satisfied
everyone’s need for a dancing tune. The saxophone highlighted the melodic line and the vocals provided an auditory enigma for
only the keen to decipher. Hazy or not, Agents of Good Roots were there to play music.

The band’s passion also dominated the show at Jack Straw’s Thursday evening, despite the diverging interests of the notorious out-of-college,
young, yuppie crowd. Just watching the facial emotion-ridden expressions of Winn was entertainment enough. While playing, Winn is overcome with
little, laughing music demons in his inner body that he releases and flings at the crowd visually and musically. His
facial expressions are minute mirrorings of the musical lines, but the passion is now expressed in all facial wrinkles imaginable.
At times, the laughing inner-agents did get the better of Winn producing a laughing hyena face.

The word “fling” took on a special connotation during this performance. The drummer, Brian Jones, played cowbells and cymbals with
equal abandon. Elbows and drumsticks were flung everywhere. Winn flung his vocals, which rolled off his tongue and hung in
the air with abandon equal to that of the motions of Jones. His body also flung — an arm here,
a foot there — when the music spirits engulfed him. It was even catching for the audience; eventually, everyone was
flinging a hand, sub-Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

tly dancing in place to the lilting rhythms of Jones’ drums and J. C. Kuhi’s saxophone overtones. “One Strange Land,”
introduced by Winn as a folk song, alternated between Winn’s husky vocals and Stewart Myers’ and Jones’ catchy Top 40
sounding chorus. Captain’s voices and castle secrets planted themselves in the minds of listeners leaving all with a music-infested spirit.
Perhaps a folk song is still the universally speaking song. “Turtle Dove” was a more musically varied tune. Sparkling guitar
framed puzzling lyrics; saxophone and bass did make the audience fly into swinging dancing. Repeated notes built up the phrasing.
The stair-stepping harmonics finished out the side thoughts and introduced the solo musical explorations. This song set the pattern for
most of those to follow. Significant exceptions were two covers, one by Dylan and another by Dire Straits. Interestingly, Winn
surrendered his raspy vocals at their moment of appropriateness to bassist, Myers. The Dire Straits rendition fit the band’s desire
to include “old songs with soul” into their original repertoire. Those who did attend the show may be puzzled about
how Winn’s raspy, hushed vocals can be distinguished. The answer is ear plugs. Yes, those bizarre looking foam things that
stick ungainly out from the ears. Not only do they protect hearing, but they filter out unwanted noise and reverberation
that even Winn’s vocals can be heard. Did Dylan’s fans wear ear plugs?

- ARTS & LIVING

OCTOBER 7, 1986

Combo Latino Band spices up the 900 Room 10 p.m.

William C. Kirby, History Department Chair at Harvard University, will be lecturing on “Sino-American Relations since the Qing Dynasty” in
Chambers Gallery 7:30 p.m.

Jumpin’ Java jump starts your week in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Coffeehouse gives you the incentive to wake up in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.

Panel Discussion on “Colliding Perspectives: Communicating About Human Rights and the Taiwan Issue” will be led by Dr. Shelley Rigger,
assistant professor of political science, in Chambers Gallery 4 p.m. - 5:30 p.m.

Irish Storytellers will entertain you in the 900 Room 7 p.m. - 8 p.m.

Panel Discussion on “A Chinese Perspective on Issues in Sino-American Relations” will take place in Chambers Gallery 7:30 p.m.

Jumpin’ Java is still jumping in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Twenty-One Year Old Night is where all the cool upperclassmen will be 900 Room 10:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Blood Drive in the Union 9 a.m. - 5 p.m.

Sino-US relations in Chambers Gallery 4 p.m. dress focusing on “Managing US-China Relations” 1:30 p.m.

Lunch serves you in the 900 Room 11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m.

Walden Horn Trio performs chamber music in Love Auditorium 8 p.m. $8 student admission

Coffeehouse serves fresh coffee and doughnuts in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.

Fall Break begins at 4:30 p.m.!

SATURDAY & SUNDAY FALL BREAK!!!

Exhale from page 10

Erika Rissing demonstrated her impressive lung capacity as she continued to create beautiful sounds with her French Horn while turning
really red in the face. It is impossible to tell that she is the only junior of the five. Despite
being plagued by illness, Erika simply shrugged it off and showed us that fine musicians are tough as well as
talented. The final member of the group, trombonist Ethan McCutchen, showed us that even though he is a composer by
divine nature, he can roll right along with the best performers on campus. Ethan also faces personal danger every time
he takes the stage, in that bizarre older women tend to follow him around and compare him to Jesus. We
thank Ethan for taking the stage regardless of the constant harassment from his fans. If you have friends who perform,
you should be there to support and cherish them in their shining moment. If you make excuses (like too much
work), you fail to be a loyal friend. That is the ultimate F at Davidson. Loyalty above all except honor.
Support your friends, and Davidson will bloom for you.
