MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1996

By Susan RUGGIERO
Arts & Living Editor

The Presentation

“This is a true story.” Yes, for my Fall Break excitement I actually attended a presentation by three cast members of MTV’s The Real World, in my hometown of Portsmouth, Ohio. The former housemates are currently touring to talk to college students about how to get along with roommates. Ironic as this may sound to those familiar with the show, the advice was little needed among the attendees in the audience, most of whom were high school students. I managed to avoid the steep $12 ticket price for entrance to Shawnee State University’s new performing arts center and was granted a backstage interview with Joe Patan, Dan Renzi, Cynthia Roberts, and Joe’s girlfriend Nicole.

Background Information

Although I have seen various episodes of The Real World, I had never seen the Miami Beach season, which is currently airing. For people unfamiliar with the show’s format, it involves seven strangers living together for a specified amount of time, in this case 5 1/2 months. They are constantly filmed, from the time their alarm clock goes off in the morning, until they are trying to fall asleep at night. At the end of the season, the producers cut and splice footage together, put some Hootie and the Blowfish music in the background and air a weekly, half-hour show. As the latest participants explained, the producers try to form characters out of each house member and create storylines by rearranging sequences of events.

The Cast Members

The producers evidently succeeded in creating characters, because when I frantically called a friend to get some kind of information before the interview, she quickly stereotyped: Dan is the gay model, Cynthia is the outspoken black girl, Joe is a businessman from New York. I got more information from the cast members themselves. Dan was picked partly because of his sexual orientation — the producers finally got the OK to put homosexual physical intimacy on the air, and due to the large gay population in Miami Beach, they wanted to go far with the issue. He was also chosen because of his outrageous personality and sense of humor. In his application tape, he said, “you wouldn’t dare put me on your show, but you need to because your show sucks and I’m cool.”

Joe, who received his MBA from Fordham and owned his own business at the age of 19, was compelled to apply because of the business side of this season. For the first time, part of the contract included the requirement that the house members start a business on $50,000 provided by MTV. Cynthia, who is from Oakland, California, heard an MTV ad over the radio and applied to be on a Real World spin-off, Road Rules. Her outspoken nature on racial issues was a key factor in her being chosen. In her interview, she was asked how she would feel about living with someone who was gay. She replied, “I don’t feel anything about it, but how many white people are going to be there?” Likewise, on Dan’s 30-page written application, he gave an alternative answer to the question “How do you feel about people with different sexual orientations?” He wrote “I don’t mind their actions in private.” However, as often as Dan talked about homosexuality Saturday night, he insisted that the producers overemphasized its importance to him. “Out of a two-hour interview, I would say the word gay one time and they would splash it everywhere.”

Inside Information

The first question from the audience was about a stolen 8 ball. Apparently, in one episode the house is attacked...by strangers, and when the excitement was over, the 8 ball was missing from the pool table. Dan was befuddled by a girl who was crawling on the floor.

Top: Montage of “Slacker of the Week.” Left: Dan Renzi fights with Melissa. Right: Cynthia Roberts looking at electrical sockets, saying “it’s all wrong.” The reason she gave him for taping each socket embarrassed him. He was on target: MTV had instructed the Road Rules members to ambush the house. Cynthia said, “I wanted to get back at them so bad, but when we found out, they were states away.”

Two other questions that set off the members were questions regarding Arnie and Trevor. Dan insists that he and Arnie were never a couple; the show only portrays them as one. He attributes many of the fights they had to Arnie feeling “like he was being used as a prop for the gay guy on The Real World.” Dan indicated that the show will soon show Arnie’s life falling apart. According to Cynthia, “Trevor hasn’t changed, and he’s never gonna change.” They still talk occasionally, but she was not eager to talk about him in the presentation.

Another interesting tidbit Cynthia brought up is that an episode will soon air that “involves a shower and more than two people,” in which, as Dan says, “certain members of the house have their moment of glory.” He explained that sometimes, being extremely lewd was the only way to ensure that film footage could never be aired.

The cast members would also go to grocery stores just to hang out, sometimes for hours at a time, because cameras were not allowed in due to security reasons.

The Cameras

The cameramen, who were “forever breaking stuff in the house,” proved relentless in their quest for footage. Melissa never could make it to a nude beach in Miami, because the cameramen were always with her. In cars, they put handheld cameras right next to the driver and passenger’s faces, or they would drive by in a van, hanging out of the sliding door. Cynthia, who likes to go to clubs, said she would be “trying to get my little boogie on, and they come in with a big ass light and they stick a big mic up to my face.” Flora was so infuriated one day that she ran a cameraman over with her car, but did not deter him from continuing to film.

The Payoff

The cast members get paid after the season, so any expenses they incur can be deducted and also to add a touch of reality, the producers want the members to struggle to pay the bills like any other tenants would. All the members agreed that the amount of money they received did not compensate the experience, but all of them were glad that they did it. They were upset that MTV “gets as much from you as they can and then casts you aside.” The members seemed disappointed that MTV did not help boost their careers. Dan lost several modeling jobs because of his stereotype as “the gay guy on The Real World.” He did get to meet Tommy Hilfiger and do an ad for him. Melissa was offered a job as a radio morning talk show host, but she turned it down because she wants to get out of public view.

All the members insist that they really got along better than the way they were portrayed. They blame the constant fighting on producers’ interference and the way the show is edited. They are “currently trying to get through the week by week process of watching [themselves] look like asses on national TV.” The best advice I heard them give to students was not in regard to living etiquette, but that college students are better off doing chemistry homework than watching edited clips of people’s lives on MTV.