6 THE DAVIDSONIAN ELSEWHERE MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1996

Profiles of nominees named Thursday for Clinton's new national security team:

Secretary of State: Madeleine Albright

She stood up to Colin Powell on Bosnia and led the fight to deny Boutros Boutros-Ghali a second term as U.N. secretary-general—episodes that define the toughness Madeleine Albright will bring to the office of secretary of state. As is often the case, Albright, 59, was the only woman in the picture as President Clinton announced his choices Thursday for his second-term national security team. Albright's tough approach has even endeared her to members of Congress who tend to be the most hostile to the Clinton administration. Sen. Jesse Helms, R-North Carolina, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, called Albright "a tough and courageous lady" and predicted easy confirmation. She's a native Czechoslovakian born on the eve of World War II. Her family fled the Nazis—first to London and then to America. She went to Wellesley, and after receiving a doctorate in Russian studies from Columbia in 1976, she went to work for a former professor, Zbigniew Brzezinski, when he was national security adviser to President Carter.

Secretary of Defense: William Cohen

The Republican chosen by Clinton to run the Pentagon is a man of many talents—senator, lawyer, poet, author. Then there is the one Clinton hopes William Cohen will emphasize: bridge-builder. Equally at ease going against his own party as criticizing Clinton administration policy, Cohen carries two decades of experience in national security issues into his assignment as defense secretary. Cohen earned a law degree from Boston University, then served on the Bangor City Council and was mayor of Bangor in the early 1970s. He did not serve in the military, something unusual for a defense secretary, but he devoted much of his 20 years in the Senate to working on defense issues, from the reorganization of the Pentagon to the modernization of the Navy. He has written nine books.

CIA Director: Anthony Lake

It is fitting that Clinton's choice to head the CIA is Anthony Lake: for four years, he's been the invisible man of the administration's foreign policy team. William Anthony Kirsopp Lake, 57, keeps such a low profile that he was identified as "unidentified" in a New York Times photograph taken well into his tenure as Clinton's national security adviser. Lake, taking a rare turn in the Oval Office spotlight, promised he would use the agency to provide Clinton "the unvarnished facts on which he can base wise decisions in a time of change and promise."

- Associated Press

- Associated Press - http://cnn.com

White House Works to Fill Domestic Slots

With his major decisions on foreign policy appointments behind him, President Clinton met Friday with his transition team in hopes of announcing some key domestic and economic appointments next week. Clinton has already told Charlene Barshefsky, the acting U.S. trade representative, that he would fight to secure her permanent appointment to her current post. She was never formally nominated as trade representative last year, because of a recent amendment to the trade laws that rules out the selection of anyone who has represented a foreign government in trade matters. As a private trade lawyer in the early 1990s, Ms. Barshefsky briefly represented the government of Canada in a dispute with the United States about lumber. But a senior administration official said Friday that it looked as if the White House could work out an arrangement with the Senate that would clear the way for Ms. Barshefsky to succeed Mickey Kantor, who was made secretary of commerce in April after Ron Brown died in a plane crash in Croatia.

Administration officials also said that Lawrence Summers, the deputy treasury secretary and one of the most powerful figures in the administration's economic team, had decided to remain in his position. Summers, a former economics professor at Harvard University and a chief economist at the World Bank, had frequently been named as a leading candidate to head the Council of Economic Advisers or the National Economic Council, which coordinates economic policy within the White House. Another frequently mentioned candidate for the National Economic Council, Samuel Berger, was appointed head of the National Security Council on Thursday. As a result, White House officials say that Clinton is now leaning toward creating co-chairmen of the National Economic Council, promoting the two chief deputies to Laura D'Andrea Tyson, who is resuming her academic career in California. Those deputies are Gene Sperling, who has been a senior domestic policy-maker in the White House, and Daniel Tarullo, who has headed upInternational affairs for the council. Clinton must also make decisions about several other domestic posts in the next few days. Bill Daley, the brother of Chicago's mayor, Richard Daley, and a key figure in the passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1993, appears to be a leading candidate to run the Department of Transportation. Norman Rice, the mayor of Seattle, was in the White House this week, fueling rumors that he is the front-runner to replace Henry Cisneros as secretary of housing and urban development. Alexis Herman, the director of public liaison at the White House, is the leading candidate to become secretary of labor, but the nation's leading labor unions are concerned that she is too closely linked to big business. Former Sen. Harris Wofford, D-Pa., is another leading candidate for that post. Rep. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, who has been deeply involved in dealings with North Korea, is frequently named as a possible candidate to run the Commerce Department, or to fill a number of other vacancies. 

By David E. Sanger, The New York Times

Beyond Davidson International ...

Taiwan will suspend aid to South Africa

Last week Taiwan announced its decision to halt all aid to South Africa. The decision is a result of South Africa's recent declaration that it will discontinue diplomatic relations with Taipei in 1997 and will instead forge diplomatic ties with Beijing. Chinese officials demanded that South Africa transfer diplomatic relations and in return promised to open its markets to South Africa.

China will build second nuclear plant in Pakistan

Governments of Pakistan and China reached a formal agreement last week, when Pakistan agreed to allow China to build a second nuclear power plant in Pakistan. China's president, Jiang Zemin, returned to China last Friday after a four-day visit to Pakistan.

Sextuplets born in Madrid

Sextuplets were born to a Spanish woman in Madrid last Thursday, ten weeks before their expected due date. The four boys and two girls were delivered by Caesarean section. They ranged from just over one and a half pounds to nearly four pounds. Two fetuses were stillborn.

Paris subway blast continues to claim lives

As of last Thursday, three people had died as a result of Tuesday's Paris subway bombing. A Canadian woman and French man were killed immediately by the blast. Last Thursday, a Moroccan man died from injuries sustained in the explosion. Eighty-eight people were injured during the blast, when a bomb detonated in a rush hour subway train.

National ...

Shuttle's return to Earth delayed due to weather

Shuttle Columbia's return to Earth was delayed last Thursday due to cloudy skies. The mission had been in space for 17 days.

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Great composer
4 Puerto —
14 Form of oxygen
16 Light color
17 Minced oath
18 Composition for piano
19 — moss
20 Vocalist
22 Airborne throngs
24 Grandiose
25 Wading bird
26 System of morals
28 Relied on
31 Brother of Moses
32 Cursed
33 Status —
35 Deer
36 Throw
37 In one’s — (drunk)
38 Dry, as wine
39 Orchestra part
40 Spirals
41 Ponder
43 Slanting way
44 Big dummy
45 Balconist
54 Rich cake
56 Movie lioness
57 Persia, at pre-Islamic times
59 Go after
60 Gingrich
61 Small rooms
62 Withered

DOWN
1 Hive dwellers
2 Jason's vessel
3 Group of relatives
4 Pure mammal
5 Kind of justice
6 Mexican Indian
7 Decant
8 Clyne
9 Orlando
10 Food and drink
11 Cake decorator
12 Stuff
21 Short dive
23 Sage
25 Presses
28 Wring
29 Furnish with
34 Hush-hush gp., once
36 Wildly excited
40 A Muse
42 Another language
43 Tears
45 Flower part
48 Bird's crop
50 Toward
51 Addict