NEWS THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1996

Committee discusses new Union
By ALEX OBREGON
Staff Writer

One of the most frequented buildings on campus, Davidson’s College Union is the place to go to find friends, food, and entertainment, and it’s a primary meeting place for campus clubs and organizations. Since 1985 proposals have been made to raise funds for a new and improved union to better accommodate the growing and changing needs of students. Now, eleven years later, these proposals are finally becoming reality.

Organizing efforts to construct new buildings or to renovate and/or remodel old ones is a tedious process. Planning for the new Union, which will be located where Johnston Gym now stands and which will eventually replace the current Student Union, is the job of the Union Planning Committee, which includes two students and several members of the faculty and staff. Committee member William Brown says that construction of the new union most likely will not start for another five years, when it is estimated that there will be sufficient funds for the project.

According to a policy of Davidson’s Board of Trustees, in order for a building or renovation project to begin construction, 100% of the funds for that project must be committed and 50% of the funds must be in hand. Fundraising efforts for the new union are scheduled to begin next summer, when fundraising efforts for renovations and additions to the Dana Science building will be completed.

Plans for the design and layout of the new Union are already in the works. This past summer, the Union Planning Committee visited Duke University, Elon College, and Appalachian State University, to study recently constructed or renovated student unions. Committee members say they will visit several other colleges this year and will meet with an architect in order to finalize the plans for the new union, so that they will be ready once fundraising begins. Right now, the committee says it is still unsure about how much the project will cost.

Along with Brown, members of the Union Planning Committee include sophomore Jonathan Sipling, senior Sara Beth Hamlin, History Professor Sally McMillan, Art History Professor C. Shaw Smith, Richard Terry, Director of Auxiliary Services; and Davidson College Trustee Gretchen Johnston. Dean of Students Tom Shandley serves as Committee Chair.

Davidson-in-India departs
By ANN HATFIELD
Staff Writer

Last Thursday, fifteen students left for the Davidson In India semester abroad program. Held only every other year, the program, which takes place entirely in India, consists of two months of study and one month of travel.

For the past two weeks, Davidson In India participants attended an on-campus orientation which included two classes each day during which students studied India’s sociology, religion, and economy. Professors Appleyard, Mahoney, Sabaratnam, and Martin lent their experience and knowledge to this orientation. In addition, students were debriefed on food and hygiene and watched several films. Renu Jain, a student from Brown University, says, “this week was so relaxed...we got to know each other and meet the Davidson students.”

Norrie Herrin climbs in the Davidson bus heading to India.

Plans for Dana and Watson. College relations

New science center to break ground in spring
By IAN HUMMEL
Staff Writer

In an attempt to raise the standing of Davidson’s life sciences facilities, classes may begin in a newly constructed Life Sciences Building, the future site of both the biology and psychology departments, as early as fall 1998. According to the Office of Institutional...Advancement’s “Life Sciences Report,” the Dana Science Building has not been “seriously upgraded” since the 1960s, a time when Davidson was attended by only about a thousand men. In order to keep pace with the increasing numbers of psychology and biology majors, as well as rapidly advancing technology, construction of the building is considered a necessary step for the college. Biology was the second most popular major of last year’s 384 graduating seniors, 54 of whom majored in biology. Thirty-six seniors graduated as psychology majors, the fifth most popular major choice. The new Life Sciences Building’s projected cost includes $8.9 million for construction and a $3 million maintenance endowment. To date, about half of the project cost has been raised in the form of gifts and pledges from alumni, parents, and friends of the college. The new building will bear the name of Wayne M. and Carolyn A. Watson, parents of Davidson alumna Bryna Watson ‘82, who gave generously to the project in 1995. Toby Bethea, Vice President of Institutional Advancement, says that the project has received “nothing but positive reaction. A lot of students come from high schools where the lab facilities are very strong, and they expect that Davidson, because of its strength both in the sciences and pre-med, should have strength in its science facilities.” Bethea expects that the new building will help draw first-tier students sought by Davidson. According to Bethea, construction of the Life Sciences Building will begin in the spring of 1997, when the Trustees’ funding criteria to begin construction should be met. Bethea states that “hopefully, classes will [be held in Watson] in the fall of 1998,” if construction goes as planned. The 32,000 square-foot finished building will run parallel to and in front of Dana. Watson’s architectural style will be consistent with that of Dana, and the two buildings will be joined by two covered walkways and an esplanade. Faculty expect that Watson will provide a place where students and professors of psychology and biology will be able to conduct research together as the future draws those two fields closer together.

Junior Jackie Rasulo says, “I’m looking forward to the personal challenge of the trip. If I can handle India, I can handle anything.” Classmate Vaishali Gupta adds, “I’m first generation American, so I’m hoping that this trip will teach me about my Indian heritage. I’m also interested in India as a developing nation, so traveling there will give me a sense of the country as it grows.” Students will live at Madras Christian College while they take classes in Indian history, the Indian economy, and contemporary Indian issues. Each student will conduct an Independent Study culminating in a paper and presentation. During the next several months participants will travel to Delhi, Agra, Jaipur, Aurangabad, Bombay, and Varanasi.

Can I borrow one of your ten free sessions?

We Could All Use a Little More Savvy

SAVVY SHORT-CUT
1-Shorter drying time
2-Shorter product use
3-Shorter salon visits

Norman Crossing Shopping Center
Exit 28 off I-77, Cornelius
895-0404

Main Address: 202 S. Main St., Suite 202, Davidson, NC 28036
(704) 892-1848

10 a.m. to 7 p.m. - Exit 28 Shops on the Green Cornelius, NC

7th Annual Demo Day
Canoes and Kayaks
Saturday, September 14th - 3 p.m.
Ramsey Creek Park
~FREE ADMISSION~
Door prizes: 15% discount on Paddlesport Accessories for Demo Participants the day of the demo.
ALL BOATS ON SALE