RTS & LIVING. MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1996

Movie Review

Broken Arrow misses target

By Ed Arley
Movie Critic

John Woo knows how to direct action films. Anyone that has ever seen any of his Hong Kong action films knows that he’s an old pro. What the Hong Kong films such as The Killer had which separated them from standard Hollywood fare was the depth of characterization that Woo gave each of his characters. The Killer worked because Woo set up the characterizations of both the policeman and the killer (Chow Yun Fat). Even though Fat was a relentless assassin, the audience sympathized with him.

Broken Arrow could have used some of the characterization that Woo’s earlier film employed. Arrow’s plot is relatively simple to follow. While on a training mission over the Utah desert in a B-3 Stealth Bomber, pilot Vic Deakins (John Travolta) punches out his friend and co-pilot Riley Hale (Christian Slater). He then takes off with two nuclear bombs. The rest of the film is basically a face-off between the two old friends as they race to gain control of the weapons across the Western desert.

The Western locale is no accident. Much of the film seems to be a reconfiguration of old Western ideas (the whole film is basically an extended shoot-out). The score itself seems to have come straight out of an Ennio Morricone score that one could find in a Sergio Leone Spaghetti Western.

The action sequences are impeccable. Many of the new school directors (such as Quentin Tarantino) have pointed out Woo as one of their main influences. That can be seen in Broken Arrow through the use of Woo trademarks such as the lightning-fast editing, the balletic slow motion, the gun-in-each-hand-blazing-away sequence, and the countless number of stand-offs that occur in the film. Woo’s skill in the editing room becomes apparent in the opening credits' brutal boxing sequence.

Yet Woo’s most endearing trademark of character depth is missing. Much could have been done with the friendship between the men. Travolta is an accomplished actor—he could have done wonders with a more re-

See Woo who? on page 13

Women make their weekly pilgrimage to the T.V. set as the latest Melrose sequel unfolds.

Josh Glazer

ONE ADDICT'S STORY

The Melrose Phenomenon

By Mary Towles Allison
Assistant Arts and Living Editor

Ah, Mondays. You drag yourself out of bed, thinking you have nothing to look forward to but another week of Davidson’s grueling workload, when you suddenly realize that there is something. It’s Melrose Place—a mindless collaboration of scandal and tawdry love affairs that makes life at Davidson complete. Never mind that you have two tests to study for and a paper to write; there are no excuses for missing Melrose (more affectionately known as MP). Heaven forbid that a meeting would keep us away, or that we would walk out of the room before catching scenes from the next episode.

I have a friend, we’ll call her Bonnie for protection’s sake, who is so obsessed with MP that she has the perfume and an entire magazine dedicated to the show. It is not enough to know the characters only by name (one must have a very high tolerance for TV addiction).To not get hooked after the first or second episode, watching MP should be a vicarious experience. In a conversation my friends and I might have about MP, we refer to the inhabitants of Melrose as if they were close acquaintances. Bonnie was talking about the show just the other day: “Can you believe that Billy? He was so rude to confront Alison moving in with him in front of the whole wedding reception! I was so embarrassed for her. He’s gotten really aggressive lately.” We’re suspicious that Aaron Spelling is going to try a Billy’s-been-possessed-by-Brook’s-ghost theme. Even the most faithful Melrose watchers would see this as a frivolous attempt at finding a storyline. Bonnie and I are hoping that this isn’t the case.

A couple of weeks ago, Fox showed a two-hour episode of MP (the crowd cheers). Everyone knew that two people were going to die; the entire week before the show, my hall discussed who we thought it would be. We were all disappointed when the first victim was Kimberly’s psychopathic kidnapper from her radio show days; he was kind of entertaining, and, after all, what’s Melrose without mental disorders? Some traitor in the room went so far as to comment that Fox was just trying to boost ratings by doing a two-hour show, and no one important would end up dying anyway. After bearing a few evil stares, she regained her composure.

Near the end of the episode, all other members of the cast were intact and, yes, even I was losing faith in Aaron Spelling. Wait! A glimmer of light (and it wasn’t one of Amanda’s tight satin shirts in the background); Brook threw one of her whiny little fits again and Billy, with a newfound assertive personality, left with Alison. Any religious MP viewer could have known what was coming next. The room fell silent and we watched as Brook slipped, hit her head on the side of the pool, and floated unconscious. No one said anything for a few minutes and then everyone agreed that it was for the best; she was only making everyone miserable (including herself), and none of us liked her anyway. It was a typical MP twist, with just enough suspense to make us come back for more.

Bonnie and I, as well as many others (even if they’re not willing to admit it), are happy to escape into this realm of MP. Sure, it’s not real, but that’s the beauty of it.

Kiss and tell with the afterlife
Dr. Moody speaks about near death
By Naresh Nagella
Assistant News Editor

Dying and coming back. Wouldn’t those people have stories to tell? Dr. Raymond Moody, author of Life After Life and seven other books on the subject, came to campus Wednesday to tell some of those stories. As part of the Medical Humanities Lecture Series, Moody gave a talk on “Learning from Near Death Experiences,” a topic he considers “jazzy and exciting.” To preface his lecture, Moody spent a half hour warning the audience not to take his stories as evidence of an afterlife, stating, “as dramatic as [the stories] may be, it is not fair to state that they are valid.

- See Afterlife on page 12
Scott Burkhardt