OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1996

You know, some people are almost universally loved by others around here, and if you’re one of them, and if you’re tired of it, I can offer you a few solutions to help people along the way toward not liking you. At this point, it’s probably judicious to doubt just how much people love you before plunging headlong into a program to make it end; the probability is high that plenty of people dislike you. If you’re convinced that everyone likes you, read on.

A terribly effective way to irritate people, and to make them uncomfortable when you show up, is to invade others’ personal space. You know what I mean. We all have an invisible bubble around us with a diameter of two to three feet, and although some people can enter this zone, others must stay out, out, out. So make a concerted effort to violate somebody else’s boundaries, and talk to them with your head a foot or so from theirs. Within a couple of weeks, people will already start to back up when they see you, and although people may still like you, there will be enough discomfort in the air that their love is not as stifling as it used to be.

Now, if you’re a person who can’t stand being this close to others, don’t think that you’re doomed to live a life as one of the over-loved; you can invade people’s personal space in a lot more ways than merely physical. Consider an emotional invasion of space. In conversations, act overly excited all the time, and move from here to asking personal questions and being hyper-emotional with every acquaintance you have. Odds are you will soon become a pariah, as you hope.

Another effective form is an invasion of personal-habits space. Approach a smoker and say, “You know that'll kill you, don’t you? When are you going to quit?” Your antagonistic attack will have been successful. However, if you are a close enough friend, s/he will take it as a sign that you really care about him/her. Likewise, if you are attractive enough and say it flirtatiously, s/he will smile, try to think of something witty to say, and most likely fail. In both of these cases, the invasion will probably not be a success and may actually be counterproductive. Use it carefully.

Ideological invasion of space is yet another alienating form of behavior. Try it; you'll like it. Impose your religious beliefs on each person that you encounter, and make him/her feel like s/he should never have been born. As someone who used to be a religious space invader, I can assure you that people dislike it and that their dislike will be applied liberally to you as well as your actions. Now, don’t think at this point that hyper-religious people are the only invaders of ideological space. You can hold to any belief, worldview, or philosophy, and as long as you impress it upon people with enough fervor and consistency, you can be just as unpleasant as a fundamentalist.

In the growing history of the world, there have always been dogmatic ess-oh-bees, and as far as I know, they have attracted like-minded people and repelled all others, so be careful and choose a repellent enough philosophy to alienate everyone. Unfortunately, as I think about all the whacked-out ideas people push, I can’t give you an example of a super-repellant worldview; there’s bound to be a few crazies out there who’ll hold to any belief. For example, some people believe that Elvis Presley is alive, Paul McCartney is dead, black velvet paintings are classy, and Jesse Helms is a sensitive, loving man.

Now, if invading others’ space doesn’t appeal to you, I apologize, but I just want to remind you again that you probably don’t have anything to worry about. You might feel like you suffer from over-popularity, but an over-inflated ego is much more likely.

Let’s say that I meet you at a party down on the court this Saturday. I think you are cute, you think I am cute. We talk for a long time, we dance, we sit on the wall with our arms around each other’s shoulders laughing like old friends. This sounds like a pretty good start, right? Right. It also sounds like the perfect place for things to start going wrong. I am convinced that Davidson students like to play a masochistic game called “Let’s See How Many Good Starts I Can Screw Up Before I Graduate.” It’s a game played by women and men alike. It’s played on many different fields: obviously the court is the Rose Bowl, but stadiums exist elsewhere on campus. Check out the games in the Library sometime. Many a good start gets lost among the Chal terminals.

Here, I'll give you an example. We meet for a study session at 9 p.m. on a Monday night. The group trades study sheets, questions are answered, and in true Davidson style everyone hustles off to their next commitment. You stay behind with me for one second to discuss something or another that I don’t quite understand. We talk shop for a while,and I finally get it. Then the talk evolves into gossip and stories about our lives. Neither of us want to go back to work, Emily Eagan Games People Play crastination tool. It’s about 10:30 now, prime time for a Union break. So we go. We have a good time chatting in the Union, but the Library calls. You go back to the second floor, I go back to my room because I can’t study in the library anyway. The game begins. You call me to ask a question that I know you know the answer to. I write you messages when I know you are online that say stupid things like “get off e-mail and get back to work.” We take another unscheduled study break the next time we are both in the library at the same time. There is a date function coming up in a couple of weeks. My friends want to know if I am going to ask you. I don’t know, that might get too serious. (Right, like I want to marry every person I take to a date function — but when the game is on, reason is on the IR [Injured Reserve—Ed.]). I hear things like “Sooooo, what’s up with you guys?” from your friends, so I know that you are talking about me. You see me in the hall and invite me to watch a movie with you and the guys. I don’t go, on purpose, I wouldn’t want you to think that I liked you or anything. (Right, like you didn’t ask 20 other people to watch the movie — but when the game is on, common sense plays JV). AHHHHHHH. How annoying! The potential is up there. But no one wants to sacrifice their batting average. Davidson men and women won’t step up to the plate, for fear that they will swing and miss. So you swing and miss, so what? What should happen next is that I should suck it up and invite you to my date function. You should suck it up and suggest that we grab dinner in Cornelius or something. But here is the problem, the game is more fun. We all want what we don’t have, and when we can have it, we don’t really want it anymore. That’s not to say that some players don’t retire and move on. Sure, there is some of that on campus. But for the most part, we are all playing the game. And we are all loving it. If we didn’t play the game then there would be no gossip, no stories to tell about your friends, no reason to sit up with your roommate until 4 or 5. In short, the game has its definite advantages. For all my railing and whining, I like the game. Playing the game well is an art form, and Davidson kids play it well. It’s fun to watch. You know ... on second thought, I don’t think it is a game after all. I am pretty sure it is a course requirement, but I'll have to ask the registrar and get back to you on that one. In the meantime, let’s see a little hustle and chatting is the ultimate procrastination tool! Here we have a perfectly good out there! Walt Barron ~ The Meaning (less) of Greeting When I was a freshman, I thought one of the best aspects of Davidson was the sense of community here, mainly shown by exchanging pleasantries with whomever you passed. Regardless of age or whether you knew the person, you were bound to say something to the effect of ‘hello’ to at least 95% of the students and faculty on campus and receive a nice response. I felt truly welcome because everyone welcomed me, even if they didn’t know me personally. As a senior, I know now that these nice exchanges are temporary and not always nice. I know now that your future at Davidson depends on the type of greeting you receive. To the freshmen: I don’t want to burst your bubble, but the fact that a really hot stud or a fine-looking woman acknowledges your presence might not mean that they think you are cool. Here are some hints to help you decipher the pleasantries and in the process guess what people really think of you. Right now, you might be awed at the fact that just about anyone you come in contact with greets you. It is natural to feel good about this, but don’t let it fool you. Most of the time it turns out that these superficial comments have hidden messages different than what you may expect. If someone gives you a real dry smile and says, “Hi,” then that’s about as far as they want to go with you. You can either be nice and give a “Hi” back, or act like you don’t know them and say nothing. This will frustrate them and you will have won the battle. If someone says, “Whassup,” they themselves are bordering on coolness, and this should be a warning to be careful with what you say. Your reputation at Davidson for the next four years could hinge on your response. If the person simply says, “Sup,” they are way too cool for you, and you might as well look for some other friends or go back to your carrel. Your response is meaningless at this point — they have already determined that you are not. See *Sup on page 12