THE DAVIDSONIAN CD Review ARTS & LIVING | MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 1996 13

Dead Man Walking soundtrack takes new turn for movie music

DEAD MAN WALKING
By JACOB ABRAHAM
Staff Writer

Movie soundtracks just ain’t what they used to be. The days of the traditional orchestral score are numbered. These days,
directors are going for the more commercially viable option of hiring popular musicians to contribute songs to their films.

Unlike the mood-setting scores of the past, this relatively new breed of soundtracks poses a certain problem. Unless the film
is aiming for nostalgia (see Good Morning Vietnam, Platoon, Forrest Gump, etc. ad infinitum), pop songs seldom have any connection
to the film’s content. The last few years have witnessed several inventive but unsuccessful attempts to wed song and content,
such as Trent Reznor’s irritating musical collage for Natural Born Killers.

Actor/director Tim Robbins has found a more viable solution with the soundtrack to his new film, Dead Man Walking. Robbins
sent the script to a number of prominent singer-songwriters and asked them to write pieces with the story of the
film in mind. The results are nothing short of spectacular.

Of course, with a roster of such acclaimed artists, the album could hardly go wrong. Still as vibrant as he
was in the 50s, Johnny Cash continues his crossover from Nashville’s musical ghetto into the alternative mainstream with “In Your
Mind.” Another welcome comeback kid, Patti Smith contributes the eerie “Walkin Blind.” Lyrical wizard and vocal sadomasochist Tom Waits delivers
a pair of tunes that would be right at home on his Grammy-winning 1992 masterpiece, Bone Machine.

The Dead Man Walking soundtrack features a variety of music ranging from Johnny Cash and Lyle Lovett to Michelle Shocked
and Patti Smith.

Two contributors play a curious game of role reversal. Bruce Springsteen plagiarizes the singing and songwriting style of the unfortunately
absent Bob Dylan, while Steve Earle does a wicked Boss impersonation with his own haunting “Ellis Unit One.” Suzanne Vega
emerges from a long absence with the pop-industrial clamor of “Woman on the Tier (I’ll See You Through).” Lyle Lovett
and Mary Chapin Carpenter shake their country labels with a pair of mournful acoustic ballads. Folkster Michelle Shocked pulls off
one of the soundtrack’s lyrical high points with the quirky, inspiring “Quality of Mercy.”

Grunge poster boy Eddie Vedder shines in the most surprising collaboration on the soundtrack, with Pakistani vocalist Nusrat Fateh Ali
Khan. Combining instruments, singing styles, and languages of the East and West, Vedder and Ali Khan’s songs have a universal
appeal that blurs cultural distinctions and unifies the album in a transcendent spiritual whole.

Perhaps Robbins’ biggest accomplishment is choosing a group of artists whose styles so effectively complement each other while exploring the
film’s themes and characters. Bluesman Ry Cooder’s guitar work and production on various songs helps to give the album its
musical consistency. The cohesive, meditative mood allows the Dead Man Walking soundtrack to stand on its own, independent of the
film.of the film, as one of the best albums of the new year.

College Kitchen
Break out the
By Jay Schultz & Ros Kosicki
Chefs-in-Residence

In the spirit of this month's Chill Chaser’s chili cook-off, we have decided to share with everyone our favorite chili
recipe. You may use this recipe as a guide in preparation of your own chili recipe. Feel free to add
or subtract ingredients to your own desired taste. For this recipe, you will need the following:

- 3 1/2 lbs ground beef
- 1 tbsp. garlic salt
- 1 large onion (chopped)
- 1/3 cup chili powder
- 1/4 cup ground cumin
- 2 tbsp. paprika
- 1 tbsp. ground oregano
- 1 tbsp. sugar
- 30-40 jalapeno slices
- 1 can tomato sauce (8 oz.)
- 1 can beef broth (10 oz.)
- 1 tbsp. flour
- 1 bottle beer

Brown meat in skillet at medium-high heat. With a slotted spoon, remove the beef and place in a 4-6 quart
pot, leaving the grease in the skillet. Dispose of most of the grease in the pan, leaving a little bit
to sauté the onions. Fry the onions and garlic salt in the skillet. When the onions are soft, empty them
into the pot with the beef. Combine the rest of the ingredients in the pot and simmer (low heat) for
three hours, stirring occasionally. Enjoy and good luck in the chili cook-off. Because against us, you will need it.

ON THE SCENE

Halley’s Comet hits Davidson with a performance by Oscar-nominee John Amos in Love Auditorium 8:15 p.m. - 11 p.m.
Artist Series Reception receives guests in Chambers Lobby 9 p.m. - 11 p.m.
Tuesday Coffeehouse wakes up your morning in the 900 Room 8 a.m. - 11 a.m.
Free Play Basketball bounces through Johnston Gym 3:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m.
January Chill Chasers begin to warm you up. Designated area, 7 p.m. - 9 p.m.
Twenty-one Year Old Night bubbles over in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Wednesday
Free Play Basketball in Johnston Gym 3:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m.
January Chill Chasers chase your hump-day blues away in designated areas 7 p.m. - 9 p.m.

Thursday
Crop Lunch serves you in the 900 Room 8 a.m. - 2 p.m.
Free Play Basketball in Johnston Gym 3:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m.
January Chill Chasers Are you warm yet? 7 p.m. - 9 p.m.

Friday
Chili Cookoff stirs up some fun in the 900 Room 5:30 p.m. - 7 p.m.
Peter and the Wolf Ballet dances through the night in Love Auditorium 7 p.m. - 9 p.m.

Saturday
Peter and the Wolf Ballet still dancing in Love Auditorium 2 p.m. - 4 p.m.
Dr. Holiday comes to hypnotize in the 900 Room 9 p.m. - 11 p.m.

Sunday
Super Bowl Party Cheer on your favorite team in the 900 Room 6 p.m. - 11 p.m.

SPRING BREAK!
BAHAMAS CRUISE $279 7 days & 15 meals
CANCUN $429 7 nights! Air, hotel & parties
PANAMA CITY $119 7 nights! Room with kitchen near the bars
FLORIDA FROM $159 Cocoa Beach, Key West, Daytona!
1-800-678-6386

OPEN NOW!
EUROPEAN AUTOWORKS
151 S. BROAD ST.
MOORESVILLE, NC 28115
(704) 664-9683
(704) 664-9726
MERCEDES-BMW-VOLVO-VOLKSWAGEN-SAAB
AUDI-PORSCHE & OTHER FINE IMPORTS
Complete Automotive Repair
From minor tune-ups to major engine overhauls
