THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1996

Athletic council discusses new track possibilities

By STEPHEN CEFALU
Staff Writer

Recently, the Athletic Council has discussed building an eight-lane competition track on campus. Most members of the campus community, including
athletic staff members, cannot pinpoint the last time an official track & field competition was held on Davidson’s IMAC fields.

“Practically speaking,” says Sterling Martin, “the cost of constructing an eight-lane track at Richardson Field is restrictive.” For Men’s Track
& Cross Country head coach Gary Andrew, the new track would be a welcome improvement. Athletic Director Jim Murphy says,
however, that the plans are still in the developmental stage.

Assistant Athletic Director Sterling Martin says that during the late 1980s, the Trustee Committee’s Council on Athletic Policy had already
begun to consider renovating what was identified as a very dilapidated Richardson Field track. But under the leadership of then
athletic director Terry Holland, the Council decided to use funds earmarked for track repair for soccer field renovations instead, so
as to attract the NCAA Division I Soccer Championship Committee to Davidson.

“Right now we’re still collecting input and pricing out possibilities,” says Murphy. Murphy says that while some funds may be
siphoned from Davidson’s capital campaign, the bulk of the track project funding must come from private donations.

When Davidson was selected to host the 1992 NCAA Division I Soccer Championships, construction work was subsequently required to modify
the dimensions of Richardson Field in preparation for the event. As a result of the construction work, Davidson’s track lost
three of its six lanes.

“We knew that by making that decision, we would consequentially force the issue of what to do with the track,”
says Martin. The Richardson Field track originally consisted of four lanes. In 1974, a new rubberized asphalt surface was laid
down and the track grew to six lanes. Over its history, the six-lane Davidson track played host to the Southern
Conference Championships and Davidson Relays. Current Southern Conference athletic regulations require an eight-lane track.

Parking fee hike remains a mystery

By IAN HUMMEL
Staff Writer

In response to the clamor that has surrounded parking problems at Davidson this year, the SGA set an agenda for
an Ad Hoc Committee on Parking by which student complaints would be reviewed and the findings would be submitted to
school administration. However, this committee has been largely unsuccessful due to a lack of response from Vice President for Business
and Finance Robert Norfleet.

The agenda included discussions with Norfleet on the topic of the increase in car registration fees and with Public Safety
Director Ray Thrower on the reasons for the significant price increase, which was explained as a contribution to the “general
fund.” Thrower explained that the parking spaces that were eliminated behind Belk Dorm and Johnston Gym had been in conflict
with either the fire code or ADA regulations.

In addition, the subcommittee on parking will conduct a survey of the student body to gather more input on the
issue.Campus regarding student opinions on the parking situation, and conduct research in conjunction with the administration on the parking fees
and problems at other schools. The parking survey is presently being conducted under the supervision of senior Jonathan.

Says Andrew, “The track is long overdue for replacement. Right now our practices are really crowded and hectic.” Andrew says
that the absence of a home track has hurt recruiting efforts and also caused the program’s travel expenses to escalate
significantly. Davidson track & field team member Michael Albert says the current track is nothing short of a safety hazard:
“We have guys icing down injuries after every practice.” Most everyone involved in the track & field program agrees that
the lack of a home track has hurt team morale. Says Albert, “It’s lonely competing on the road all the
time without any fans.”

This Tuesday, the SGA will propose to form a committee to work with admissions on the issue.

A crack in the really old track.

Emily Smith Goodwin-Exxon Awards — character, sportsmanship
Senior: John Cowan, Junior: Heather Perry, Sophomore: Yu-jay Harris

PCC Awards — Scholarship: Connor, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Service: Warner Hall, Spirit: Rusk and Kappa Sigma.

Alumnae Association Freshman award — highest GPA, class of ’99
Lee Burnett, Elizabeth Davis, Jennifer Marenberg, Emily Setina

Thomas Jefferson Award — Ruth Ault
Grey Professorship — Dirk French
Cannon Religion Professorship — Karl Plank

Coming to a city near you—the U.S. Mathematica Empowerment Tour! Wolfram Research is hitting the road to show the world
what Mathematica 3.0 is all about. Climb aboard our colorful traveling display for an inside look at what makes Mathematica
indispensable in fields such as science, technology, engineering, finance, medicine, research, education, and many, many more. Come and try Mathematica,
share reduction in the number of parking spaces behind Belk and Johnston.

The survey consists of several questions concerning Davidson’s parking facilities.

Chair of the Ad Hoc committee, Damon Colbert, a junior, says he was unsuccessful in his attempts to contact Norfleet
to discuss the specifics of the parking fee increase. He says Norfleet instructed him to direct all questions on parking
to Thrower. However, Thrower had not been given any specific information explaining the elevation in parking price. The only official
explanation thus far has been Norfleet’s original statement that the extra money would go to the “general fund.” Colbert says
that “if the price had not gone up 33%, there would not have been this campus-wide uproar [over parking] this
year.” He says he also believes that, at the very least, students are entitled to 3-5.

Decide what to do with yourself. Visit the majors fair.

Check out the Wolfram Research website: http://www.wolfram.com/empower for information on this and other Empowerment Tour stops!

Where: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA AT CHARLOTTE—Check the website for exact location information
When: Tuesday, October 29, 1996
Time: 1:00 to 5:00 pm

RESEARCH

Monday, Nov. 4
