SPORTS MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1996 15

Ironman Cowan downplays streak
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

Senior lineman John Cowan, who will co-captain this year’s Wildcats with linebacker A.R. Barrington, has started all 30 games since
he arrived on campus three years ago. But the 6-2, 240-pounder from Cartersville, Ga., dubbed “the glue” of the team
by Landis, insists the Ripkenesque stretch is not on his mind: “I feel like I’m really lucky to have had
that opportunity, but I honestly don’t think about it. I just think about winning football games.”

Last year’s traditional red pants, black (home) and white (away) jerseys, and red helmets brought a disappointing 1-8-1 mark. So
to go with their new and improved size and speed, the Wildcats will sport spiffy new uniforms this season. The
duds, which will hopefully translate into more wins, feature a white pants - black jersey - black helmet ensemble at
home and a black pants - white jersey - black helmet combo on the road. The pants also have a
pawprint on the left hip. And don’t be surprised to see the team break out in an intimidating all-black outfit
for an especially big game this fall.

Emory & Henry (Va.), Davidson’s Sept. 28 Homecoming opponent, was ranked 12th in the country in Sports Illustrated’s Division III
pre-season poll. The Wasps, who own a 22-game home winning streak and are among the nation’s leaders in D-III attendance,
blanked the Wildcats in last year’s meeting, 32-0.

Sophomore speedster Karim Lawrence, who ran track last spring, is playing organized football for the first time in his life.
Called “a project” by Landis, Lawrence should ultimately become a deep threat.

James Cassidy, Davidson’s all-time sack king (22.5) who, as a senior last year, set the school single-season sack standard with
11, currently plays for the Munich Cowboys at the highest professional level of American football in Germany. Cassidy is one
of seven past Davidson players or coaches who have taken part in pro football overseas since 1993.

Davidson will scrimmage Chowan, a Division III school that faces many of the same Old Dominion Athletic Conference (ODAC) teams
the Wildcats play, on Saturday in Murphysboro, N.C. The team will then have two weeks to prepare for its Sept.
14 opener at Maryville (Tenn.).

Be a cool ‘Cat. Write sports. Call Will (x6126) or Kruse (x6231).

Linemen may be few in number, but if line coach Bob Brown can keep his squad healthy, they should be
an imposing and powerful bunch.

Superwoman returns
By MICHAEL KRUSE AND WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editors

Junior Allison Noznesky, who broke every single-season goalkeeping record in 1995, would, with a repeat of last year’s heroics, hold
all the career records by the end of this season. She played all 2100 minutes last season, recording 117 saves,
6 shutouts, and a 1.17 goals against average.

Coach Kevin Hundley sees the women’s soccer teamas a regional top 10, which includes all schools in North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, and Florida... Hundley’s recruiting class of 15 this year is the largest in program history. On the men's
side, seven players (Dennis Buck, Robert Clarke, Bryce Jewett, Keith Kleeman, Chad Lagerway, Isaac Stewart, and Dan Guill) spent last
semester abroad, allowing many younger players to gain valuable experience during the spring season.

“Last spring was really important,” said junior Phil Julien. “People like (midfielders Jeff) Harrell and (Patrick) Cahan were mainstays on
the spring team. They got a lot of experience.”

Boston University, scheduled as Davidson’s second opponent in the FIU Umbro Invitational in Miami on Sept. 29, has withdrawn from
that tournament. The Wildcats’ alternate opponent has yet to be determined.

Watch soccer, win free stuff
By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

One lucky student will be headed to the upcoming men’s soccer UNLV Coors Light Classic in Las Vegas. The contest
winner will hold the best seven card stud hand, but you can only get cards if you come to the
men’s games. Contact Alec McAllister x2781 for more information.

The Sept. 1 soccer matchup against South Carolina will now be a double-header with the women battling the Gamecocks at
4 p.m. and the men at 6 p.m. on Richardson Field.

March Madness will come to Davidson this year when the college hosts Southeast Regional First and Second Round games at
the Charlotte Coliseum. Tickets will be available to students, faculty, and staff later in the year for $75.00 a book,
a six-game package.

The German and Canadian Women’s Olympic Volleyball teams stayed on campus for their pre-Olympic training and played a free match
in Belk Arena seen by about 1,000 people. Germany won that match in four games and made the quarterfinal round
in Atlanta before being eliminated by China.

Construction is finished, and the Belk Arena floor now sits three feet higher than it did last year. The improvements
prompted Game Management Director Lee Sargent to say, “It’s as good as any floor in the U.S.”

The Davidsonian, where the truth comes out after 10 o'clock. Write for it. Call John or Mary Clare x2148.

Wednesday is Davidson College night at... Great drink specials! 19501-4 HWY 73 W Cornelius, NC 28031 (one mile west off
exit 28 - next to Irish Cue) (704) 892-4335. Faculty and students always receive a 10% discount on food with
Davidson College ID. Open 7 days a week - 11 a.m. until ? VISA, MasterCard, and American Express welcome.

Mailing Address: 20212 Knox Rd. Suite 1 Davidson, NC 28036

OUTDOORS EXC

Welcome back students! 40% off all spring and summer clothing 30-35% off most climbing gear. Come see our new selection
of snowboards! I-77 - Exit 28 Shops on the Green Cornelius, NC (704) 892-1848

KRYPTONITE lock sale!

Evan Kruppenbach
Post Office Box 1376
428 South Main Street
Davidson, NC 28036
704.896.3331
FAX 704.896.3352
