12 - THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1996

CD Review

ERIC MATHEWS & Papas Fritas

By CURTIS MANN
Staff Writer

In today’s grungy, lo-fi, nasty world of dull, noise-making rock bands, Eric Matthews’ solo debut It’s Heavy In Here breaks
the mold. Once a member of the equally heavy band Cardinal, Matthews has branched off on his own to further
develop his highly orchestral style. It’s Heavy In Here could easily be mistaken for a George Martin-produced Beatles’ album. This
polished product comes from Portland, OR and is on Seattle’s Sub Pop label, hardly a hotbed for clean-cut fellows who
play harpsichord.

Although the opening track “Fanfare” includes regal trumpets to usher in this highly original work of art, much of the
rest of the album is rather delicate, somber pop. This fits Matthews’ warm, liquidy voice to a tee. He also
has a flair for tight melodies and harmonies, and when coupled with rich lyrics, the result is a vivid tapestry
which has the power to evoke real emotion. Take the elegant “Fried Out Broken Girl,” for instance. To look at
the lyric sheet, the words might seem nonsensical, but Matthews’ voice mixed solely with piano and trumpet works magically. Jason
Falkner (ex-Jellyfish, the Grays) provides exemplary guitar, bouncy bass, and even a little drum work throughout the album to complement
Matthews. Alternative Press has raved, “If you buy only one album this year to see you through the darker phases
of your life, this should be it. Hell, buy it even if you’re not depressed; you’re still going to love
it.” I concur.

Papas Fritas means “french fries” in Spanish, but it also happens to be the name of a band on Minty
Fresh records. Don’t worry, it’s not flamenco music, nor is it heavy. This debut recalls those wonderful Cars or Talking
Heads albums I know you all grew up adoring, and features a Ringo Starr sound-alike on drums. “Wild Life” is
a fun little ditty including hand-claps, sugary harmonies, a cowbell, and even sleigh bells to go with the simple, hooky
guitar riff. “Passion Play” could ride on the Magical Mystery Tourbus with its odd string arrangements and trippy feel. The
lyrics are mostly pretty humorous, tackling such pertinent issues such as “TV Movies,” a 9-to-5er’s lament (“Holiday”) and the campy
jaunts “My Revolution” and “Smash This World.” At their best, Papas Fritas are right on the mark, their boy/girl melodies
just goofy and jangly enough to keep your head bouncing and your feet tapping, but at their worst, and especially
on the last three tracks, this trio sounds like one of those bad early ‘80s new wave bands you’d just
as soon forget about.

At the Clubs
———— Music in two hours or less ————

A - Amos’s (Charlotte)
JS - Jack Straw’s (Charlotte)
T - Tremont Music Hall (Charlotte)
Z - Ziggy’s (Winston-Salem)
BHN - Be Here Now (Asheville)

This * means good stuff

Tuesday, Feb. 13
Derek Trucks Band* (JS; 16-year-old lead guitarist played w/ Allman Bros.)

Wednesday, Feb. 14
Ani DiFranco (BHN; edgy vocals), Moon Boot Lover(JS; one of the top bands from the Northeast), Leftover Salmon w/ Dayroom*
(T; LoS-polyethnic cajun slamgrass, Dayroom-club rock); Candlebox (Z; new grunge)

Thursday, Feb. 15
Big Stoner Creek* (JS), Elk (T; CD release night!), Hobex (Z; Dillon Fence goes soul)

Friday, Feb. 16
Craven Melon (A; friends of Hootie), Squirrel Nut Zippers* (BHN; Charlotte’s modern swing), Violet Strange w/ Schleigho (JS; punk with
intelligence), Ani DiFranco (T), Vertical Horizon w/ Doxy’s Kitchen (Z; Carter Beauford plays drums)

Saturday, Feb. 17
Bus Stop (A), Blue Miracle (JS), AWARE* Music Festival (Nashville, TN; 10 bands on or will be on AWARE records,
$7), Flat Duo Jets w/ Danielle Howle & Tantrums* (T; rockabilly)

Sunday, Feb. 18
Hum w/ Mercury Red (T; smashed buzz)

By Wit Foy

Rising from page 10

stalking grassland game, of police beatings. “You tried to beat me to death. You tried to beat the Africa out
of me.” The play was an intriguing mixture of public and private, alternating from the confession of a crack-addict to
an angry lament for the babies killed by the Oklahoma City bombing. “Does it take a war or a disaster
or a madman with a bomb to bring us together?”

The characters addressed at various points during the evening such contemporary figures as Rosa Parks, Newt Gingrich, OJ Simpson, and
Susan Smith, and always, they spoke to us — of fatherhood, of manhood, of teacherhood. In one classroom scene, a
character styled himself as teacher and the lesson of the moment (for the evening held many) was “What are You
Willing to Die For?” Educated Davidson students and community members had to answer “yes” or “no” to: color? crack? a
friend? a flag? a million dollars? freedom? The two “students” on stage imitated our often mixed and wavering responses, and
our teacher concluded, “if you have nothing to die for, you have no reason to live.”

A drama whose premise was the Black Man in all his hardness and complexity eventually focused on the softness and
simple solution of love for the Black Woman. During a worshipful, Whitmanesque praise of woman in all her shapes and
sizes and shades, one performer left the stage and approached freshman Rhina Roberts, dropping to his knees to speak softly
and kiss her hand. “We need a healing from the White House to the Whore House ... The healing begins
with you and me ... We don’t need to wait for a leader to follow.”

Black Man Rising, which played an opening role in Davidson’s Solidarity Week with events through Saturday, is funded by the
non-profit organization Living The Dream, Inc. and takes its message to high schools and detention centers, colleges and prisons across
the country.
