THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1996

Palatable Pleasures
Cajun Tomatoes heat up the kitchen — and your mouth
By JEFFERY D. CROMARTIE
Chef-in-Residence

One of my earliest memories deals with my grandmother stuffing an uncooked tomato down my throat — it was not
a joyful moment. However, years later I found myself working at a greenhouse tomato farm in Purvis, Mississippi, where I
was introduced to the messiah of all tomato recipes — Smothered Cajun Tomatoes. One taste and you’ll forget all those
trauma-filled tomato force-feedings and suddenly become an enlightened, born-again, tomato-loving martyr. Enough dogma — here’s what you do:

1) Get you some tomatoes and cut them like you are going to put them on burgers except thicker (3-4
slices per fruit — or whatever those trendy New Englanders call them).
2) Slap those tomato discs down on an oven tray or somethin’ with rims (no cookie sheets).
3) Now, we are at the fun part. You need A-1 BOLD Steak Sauce (1-2 tablespoons per slice), Worcestershire sauce
(1/4-1/2 tablespoons per slice), Cajun pepper or any hot Cajun spice (just a dash on each slice), fresh ground black
pepper, and Italian dressing (1-2 tablespoons per slice). Now DUMP all of this stuff on top of your tomato slices.
4) Cover the slices with your choice of grated cheese. Pile it on. I usually use Mozzarella, Parmesan, cheddar, or
any combo you like.
5) Pop the whole tray-full including the sauce — which should be running all over the tray — in the
oven at 300-350 F, and cook them till the cheese is completely melted — 10-15 min. — then resurrect them
from the fiery pits of your oven and experience the prophecy of Palatable Pleasures.

If you have any questions or humorous concerns, feel free to call me at 6827 — and always remember: If
it’s fat-free, it sucks!

Waiting for the Nightfall
Our hapless freshman reflects on Courtless life
By JENNY CORKE
Staff Writer

From what I have heard, “First Night Down” — the night when freshmen are introduced to the Davidsonian society —
is one of the greatest rites of passage in the freshman social experience. Freshmen enter a new realm of involvement
that reaches beyond hall mixers and co-ed board games within our own class, to a somewhat more complex idea of
fun.

I for one am glad that this big night did not descend upon us (or us upon it) right at
the beginning of the school year, simply because, at the risk of seeming frivolous or disillusioned, I would currently define
my life at Davidson thus far as one huge and rather confusing social event. From my academic classes to meals
at Vail Commons, to weekend events, I always feel as though I am shaking a stranger’s hand and then proceeding
to make small talk.

I must admit, however, that the weekend events have been, by far, the most fun of all these activities (probably
because they were organized with underlying social intentions). Our first big organized activity, a mixer at the Student Union, offered
an eclectic array of fun. The evening came complete with dancing, cookie making, gambling, and “hall” feuding (a take-off on
Family Feud). In my opinion and in the opinions of those that I have talked to, the evening was a
big success, both in terms of its enjoyment value and its congregational value.

The popular band “Jump Little Children” was our next form of entertainment. Although I really enjoyed the music, I must
admit that I did feel somewhat lost, not only because of the impermeable crowd of dancing people, but also because
of the lack of adequate lighting. There was one point, in fact, when I got separated from my friends, and
found myself looking...Out into a sea of strangers, praying to find one familiar face. Ice Skating was a very interesting
all-class event. We piled into cars and paraded down to the Charlotte ice skating rink for a night of athletic,
and inevitably clumsy fun. Being from the North, where ice skating is basically a winter institution, I found it rather
amusing that a lot of Southerners had never skated before. But aside from a few minor falls, and a few
wimpy complaints that “the ice is too slippery,” everyone seemed to fare pretty well.

And, of course, we have also had mixers and movie nights galore. Some were planned and directed by our hall
counselors, while others occurred completely randomly and at very odd hours during the night. The informality and spontaneity of these
“get-togethers” certainly offered a better arena for relaxed mingling and more in-depth conversations, but less excitement.

So, as we freshmen anxiously await a great milestone in our coming-of-age experience here at Davidson, we are certainly finding
a variety of things to do besides homework and writing letters home. I know I can speak for many when
I say that we have all had fun, but that we are getting ready to move on to bigger and
brighter social horizons.

Nails
Manicures * Pedicures * Acrylic * Gels * Tips * Fiberglass
Facial Waxing
Contact Diane 892-1633
NAIL BOUTIQUE
The Duchess Nail, Hair & Tanning Salon
Full service salon for women & men
892-7030

"Best Prices in Town"
Tanning
"Hottest Bulbs in Town"
$4.00 per session * $33.00 for 10 sessions
$43.00 for 15 sessions * $50.00 for 20 sessions
RedKen Hair Products & more...

Davidson College Campus Hair
Precision cuts * Perms
DAVIDSON STUDENTS $10.00 CUTS!
Diane: 892-1633
Trudy: 895-8012
Located 1/2 mile south of 892-7030
20700 N. Main St.

Jumpin’ Java gets your blood flowing in the Outpost 8 Coffeehouse perks you up in the 900 Room 8 p.m.
- 12:30 a.m. Jumpin’ Java is still brewin’ up fun in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 p.m. Twenty-one year
old night brews up even more fun in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. with subtitles in the
900 Room at 9:30 p.m. The Crop Lunch provides you with great food for a good cause in the 900
Room 11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. Dream Worlds II gives us a concentrated and objective perspective of sex in the
media at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Belle Epoque gives you an international study break Coffeehouse is your only
hope of surviving your last day of classes in the 900 Room from 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m. Belle Epoque
will be showing yet again in the 900 Room at 6:30 p.m. Lunar Luau will take place on Richardson Field
from 9 p.m. - 1 a.m. Come play and meet the athletic Wildcats by moonlight. The Gospel Choir Extravaganza livens
up an otherwise dull Saturday morning in Chambers Gallery from 10 a.m. - 1 p.m. The Magical Mystery Tour is
a great chance for freshmen to... well, you will find out. Interested freshmen should buy a ticket in advance in
the ticket office of the Union and report to the 900 Room at 8 p.m. Opera Arias provide you with
a chance to appreciate the refined arts. (They are also a great way to fulfill your performance requirements for music
courses!) The performances will be in Hodson Hall from 8 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.

Jumpin’ Java is there to give you that boost you need at the end of the weekend/beginning of the week
in the Outpost from 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Write for Arts and Living. Call Susan or Jill at x2148

Nutritional Supplements
21316 Davidson St., Cornelius, (704) 896-0089
OPEN: (Located near the Lake Norman YMCA)
