MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1996 — The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
MARY CLARE JALONICK

Associate Editors
WILL BRADSHAW
TERESA WHITE
MICHAEL KRUSE
MEREDITH LUCIUS

News Editors
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
BEN DeLISA

Sports Editors
RANDY HARTWELL
McNEIL CARSWELL

Opinions Editors
CARRIE BLACKBURN
NINA BLOUNT
DANIEL MOTZ
KRISTEN RICHARDSON

Arts & Living Editor
GREG GARRISON

Associate Arts & Living Editor
JILL WILLIAMS

Photo Editor
RANDY HARTWELL

Business Manager
BETH BACON

Advertising Managers
TERESA WHITE
MICHAEL KRUSE
MEREDITH LUCIUS

Circulation Manager
CLAY LENHART

Copy Editors
BRAD CHASE
SUSAN RUGGIERO
ERIC PENDERGRASS

Web Page Managers
CLAY LENHART
GREG GARRISON

Cartoonist
CLAY LENHART

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at: http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Thanks for Habitat

Consequences. Oh, the fear of the lawsuit. Oh, What If, What If, WHAT IF?

WHAT IF a student who walked across campus to get another student a drink tripped and fell, and then sued
the school for not installing a coke machine in a near enough locale?

WHAT IF a student who drank six beers and threw up on a friend’s silk shirt sued the school and
a beer-supplying fraternity for cleaning charges and the mental anguish for having to deal with said friend?

WHAT IF voluntarily wearing swimming goggles on the head as a part of a collective sport activity, scars a poor,
innocent freshman for the rest of his or her years (Neglected by a crush? Spurned by a professor? Ostracized from
social life at Davidson forever?), the victim sues the school for heartless subjection of a certain set of values on
a willing and impressionable team member?

We could come up with these forever. IT COULD all happen. ANYTHING can happen. Anything at all.

But should we let our college experience be affected by these possibilities? In some ways, yes—people have sued and will
continue to sue. Our lawyers are there to protect us, and rightly so. But we should avoid any unnecessary lawsuits,
even if it means we have to give up a few liberties. But when the measures become excessive, then we
have surrendered to the fallacies of the system. When we force a meaningless label on a frivolous activity, cancel an
event because of some technical mistake, or attribute all wrongdoing to the source of a lawsuit-inducing incident, then, we are
sending the members of this community a message with mixed signals: be creative, encourage community, but don’t even attempt to
cross a line, for fear of the consequences.

So, they say, this is correct. Students should be taught to play by the rules and not cross inappropriate lines.
But why should we live paranoid? This is extreme, they say, we are just preparing you for the real world.
But we, at Davidson, are taught to look at the real world through multi-disciplined eyes, through educated minds that help
us to make our own decisions and decide the consequences for ourselves. We are not, in general, stupid; we will
make decisions based on rational principles and expected outcomes. Thus, we shouldn’t be told we cannot wear something for fear
its meaning will become distorted; or we shouldn’t be told we cannot gather with friends because one gathering at one
time went awry.

It is sad how some people become slaves to the system without putting true thought, experience, or trust into those
they deal with. Davidson has taught us to act exactly the opposite. It is unfortunate that college policies often conflict
with the very education we receive from it.

To the Editors:

On behalf of the Board of Directors of Our Towns Habitat for Humanity, I would like to thank and congratulate
the entire Davidson College community on the successful completion of the Wildcat Habitat house. This visionary undertaking...required untold dedication, determination,
and persistence from untold numbers of people. You have accomplished not only a lasting home for the Jetton family, but
a lasting legacy for yourselves of unity, service, and pride. I hope this will be the first of many opportunities
for Our Towns Habitat to work in partnership with Davidson College Habitat. But until the next project, there is always
a hammer waiting for you in one of our towns—just call and volunteer. Thank you for caring.

Jane Cain
Vice President of Davidson Habitat for Humanity

Hit and Run
To the Editors:

Friday morning, November 22, I walked to my car on my way to run some errands and was shocked and
infuriated to find that my car had been severely damaged. My car, a red Honda Civic hatchback, was parked on
the corner of Concord and College Street just past Jackson Court. I last saw it Saturday, November 16th. I am
truly not upset that my car is damaged. Accidents happen. Especially parked on Concord Road, I would be unrealistic to
imagine that my car was entirely safe. BUT I am extremely disconcerted that I have not been notified. I understand
that the damage may have been caused by someone other than a member of the Davidson community. However, if anyone
reading this letter knows who is responsible, I need to be informed. If I cannot find the person responsible or
a witness to the hit and run, the repairs will fall entirely on my shoulders. However “real life” that consequence
may be, it is my belief (and not mine alone) that Davidson is structured to prevent such irresponsibility. If anyone
knows who is responsible (although I would hope they would notify me directly), who might have witnessed it, or when
it may have happened, PLEASE let me know. Again, I understand that these things happen in life. I AM NOT
UPSET at the incident, only at the lack of responsibility. You can reach me at 6835, Flowe 303, seclippard@davidson.edu, or
voice-mail 3886.

— Seth Clippard ‘97

Projecting Life
The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the term by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student.
Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors
or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35 per year,
$17.50 for the Spring Semester. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editors,

On behalf of the Project Life Committee, I would like to thank and congratulate the students, faculty, and staff on
this year’s bone marrow drive. I would first like to thank you for the tremendous support we received. We appreciate
the campus-wide interest in the drive and the many encouraging words throughout our quest to raise $12,000. By purchasing our
t-shirts, raffle tickets, spaghetti dinners, and donuts, you helped us to reach our goal. I especially want to thank the
McCarthy family, Dr. Don Kimmel, Catherine Turner, and Scottie Lindsay for their guidance and continual support for our bone marrow
drive. Secondly, I would like to congratulate you for making this year’s drive the biggest ever. We typed 363 people,
putting Davidson’s seven-year total well over 2,000. We are making an enormous contribution to the National Bone Marrow Registry each
year from our small campus. As bone marrow transplants are becoming more common, patients are finding donors because of drives
like ours. I am happy to report that Davidson has inspired other schools, such as UNC and Elon, to start
their own drives based on our success. I would like to encourage you to keep supporting the bone marrow drive
and to get typed if you missed this year’s drive, so that Project Life can continue to give terminally ill
patients a second chance at life.
