THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, APRIL 1, 1996

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors:
JOHN COPENHAVER
JAMES BERRY

Arts & Living Editor:
CAROLINE BYNUM

Business Manager:
MARY CLARE JALONICK

Asst. Arts & Living Editor:
MARY TOWLES ALLISON

Photography Editor:
JOSH GLAZER

Associate Editor:
TERESA WHITE

Sports Editor:
WILL BRADSHAW

Advertising Managers:
BEN GRIFFIN
BONNER MEAD

News Editor:
CATHERINE ANDERSON

Assistant Sports Editor:
MICHAEL KRUSE

Assistant News Editors:
NARESH NAGELLA
CHLOE BROOKE
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL

Circulation Manager:
CARRIE BLACKBURN

Web Page Manager:
SUSAN RUGGIERO

Opinions Editor:
BRAD CHASE

Copy Editor:
KATIE McKELVIE

JILL WILLIAMS

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You Can Lead a Horse to Water, But You Can’t Make Him Drink

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at: http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Voices. In the tiny Davidsonian office, a newspaper published by our predecessors in 1970 hangs on the wall. The headline reads: Campus erupts in protest over Cambodia, Kent State. An article near the bottom of the yellowed page, entitled Make policy in streets, not smoke filled rooms details the encouragements of visiting speaker Nobel Prize Winner and Harvard Professor George Wald: “American people must express what they want. No charismatic figure is needed. We can formulate and deal with things as you want. Say it loud! And keep on saying it.”

Wald spoke during the Vietnam era. At that point, students all over the nation erupted in violent protest regularly, struggling to make their voice heard. They may have believed they were changing the world — beginning an era where smoke-filled rooms would be invaded by strong, healthy voices of youthful reason. They may have begun an era, but today, 25 years later, we have slipped back into an age of moderation. This can mostly be attributed to the lack of major issues (such as a war) to be debated, but it might also be attributed to a general lack of youthful passion alive in college students today.

Generally, Davidson students fit this passive mold. However, as the rooms of Chambers have become a little smokier, the streets have become a bit more crowded. Have you noticed it? It all started with Christina Hoff Sommers. She riled students about women’s issues. And, of course, students have been concerned about the minors debate. Over 600 students have expressed an interest in them and wear ribbons to show their support. The whole keg issue has students talking constantly, as well.

Why are people so incensed? Why are people talking about issues? Because they mean something to us. But do we really have a voice? Is what we want known? Are sub-committees and sub-committees of sub-committees simply for show, or will anyone really listen to what we have to say? Hopefully we do. Hopefully it is. Hopefully they are.

Powerlessness is a very frustrating, demeaning feeling. Students are not the only side of any issue — we know our voice is not the only one. We should all work as a community to make a decision. Let’s hope that the system gives us all an equal voice - a real voice; not just a token voice — to all sides.

1970 is not 1996. Students will most likely not hold a sit-in for minors or a freedom march against a BYOB policy. But we speak out, and will continue to speak out. Although we may not all want the exact same things, we will work together to decide what we do want. We will say it loud. And we will keep on saying it. Please, take advantage of our newfound passion.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTERS

Congratulations on cherishing learning

To the Editors:

I enjoyed the energetic student and faculty response to Christina Hoff Sommers’s address in Love Auditorium on March 19. Sommers had mentioned to Jenny Reinoehl and me during our interview of her that sometimes faculty members at other schools discouraged their students from attending her lectures. She implied that her material was too threaten-ing. I responded, “Oh, no. That's not true here. Several of us read your book, discussed it together outside of class, and we have encouraged others to listen to what you have to say.” I consciously stressed the infinitive “to listen,” for I see listening as crucial in any intellectual exchange. But questioning is also important, and I was gratified by the tone and the content of the questions the audience asked Sommers. The audience took Sommers seriously. They listened while she arbitrarily divided the feminist movement into a nasty struggle (sometimes even a “war” of “betrayal”) between “gender feminists” and “equity feminists,” battling for the imaginations and resources of contemporary Americans, particularly students. They heard her paste simplistic labels on complex problems (e.g., “phony statistics,” “gender propaganda,” “victimology,” “political correctness,” “sleeping with the enemy”). The audience then responded by asking Sommers to clarify her terms and support her claims with specific evidence. I found that response both respectful and intelligent.

Although I do not believe that Sommers sees herself as an “ideologue” (another of those terms she smears on others) or as viewing reality through any lens but the “truth,” her speech did present a particular point of view, not any “universally accepted truth.” Thus, I enjoyed hearing students and faculty actively challenge Sommers to define her terms, to explain and support her “traditional” philosophy. The classroom was just what she encountered in the audience’s critical analysis of her argument. I was surprised to learn later that Sommers found that audience “hostile,” for what I observed was people actively learning! What a concept!

Sincerely,
Elizabeth Mills
Professor of English

Five reasons to support minors

To the Editors:

The following is the proposal for the institution of minors at Davidson that comes before the faculty on Tuesday, April 2, 1996. It appears in the format that will be used in the 1996-1997 catalogue should the minors proposal be approved.

Some departments at Davidson College offer minors. A minor is a set of five or six courses designated by a participating department and approved by the Faculty, including at least one course at the 300-level or above. Students are allowed to declare one, and only one, minor to the appropriate academic department by no later than October 1 of their senior year. Department chairs or minor advisors will recommend the minor for certification by the Registrar before commencement. Students declaring a minor may not also declare a concentration or a second major. Courses counted toward a minor may not be counted toward a major. Students must maintain a minimum 2.0 cumulative grade point average to pursue a minor, and must achieve a minimum 2.0 average on all courses counted toward a minor.

In the spring of 2001, the Educational Policy Committee will review the educational merit of minors and report its findings to the Faculty. Before the April 2nd faculty vote on minors, the Council on Academic Affairs would like to address the issue of minors in five brief statements:

The Effects of Minors on Concentrations. We also believe that minors and concentrations meet different needs. While concentrations are beneficial for students who have a developed, multi-disciplinary interest, we feel that some students need a more broad-based option within a single discipline. Students accepted to Davidson are well-rounded and have many diverse interests. Students should have the opportunity to pursue these interests, such as those in the fine arts, without compromising their choice for a major.

Minors and the Liberal Arts Tradition at Davidson. As students, we chose Davidson because of its liberal arts curriculum. We believe that minors will supplement the core curriculum requirements by encouraging students to do more than take random 100-level classes. Minors will offer structure to develop general interests within a particular discipline.

Minors are Optional. If the faculty passes minors, each department will decide whether to offer them. Departments will also determine the structure of the minor, including the component courses and the procedure for declaring a minor. This would allow departments to tailor minors according to their wishes. We feel that it is unfortunate that should minors fail, departments that would like to offer them will be unable to do so.

See Minor on page 9