THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING — MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1996

Daryle Ryce flops; Catfish Jenkins to test the waters

KATE GREENE & JASON SCHMIDT
Staff Writers

After Monday’s uninspiring show in the 900 Room, the Union Board’s Intimate Performances Committee (IPC) may need to salvage their
rep with their second show, Catfish Jenkins, who will be playing Saturday night in the 900 Room.

Monday’s performer, Daryle Ryce, hails from Charlotte and Spartanburg. Cover tunes and less than candid originals spotted her performance. Her
guitar playing was more up-to-par, but her piano skills were less than Billy Joel-esque. She played for the usual Davidson
Monday night IPC crowd, who enjoyed the mellow atmosphere as a break from their monotonous studies. Some students, such as
senior Sara Beth Hamlin, came for a second time to hear Daryle Ryce. Those students who were first-time listeners enjoyed
the folk music for its atmosphere, not, in this case, its musicality.

The last time Catfish Jenkins came to Davidson, the band proved to be the epitome of college sounds. Based in
the mecca of college music, Athens, GA, this band hopes to follow in the wake of success of other bands
who originated from there, such as R.E.M. They had their first big break two years ago when one of their
songs, “Wishing Time,” was released on the compilation, AWARE II. With this break, the foursome gained much of their popularity,
following, and national recognition. Their sound resembles other Davidson alumni, such as Cravin Melon, Edwin McCain, and the Connells. They
have a traditional lead electric guitar and a beat that can keep any college student interested. The bass line is
exploratory and riveting compared to the traditional, Michael Stipe-type vocals. Press literature claims that a member plays the harp —
something to wait for in anticipation.

Catfish Jenkins is playing on Saturday, September 21st. The show is at 9 pm in the 900 Room, but the
doors open at 8:30 pm.

Mystery Machine zooms to Charlotte

By WILL RAGLAND
Staff Writer

This past weekend about a hundred daring freshmen took the plunge into the Magical Mystery Tour, an event sponsored by
the F-CREW, which proved that freshmen indeed can run everything well. The night began with a Subway supper in the
900 Room and a magically mysterious t-shirt. Afterwards, we were carried away in vans towards our unknown destination somewhere south
of Davidson. After a short journey, we arrived at the Omnimax Theatre in Charlotte, a domelike planetarium structure.

We were herded into the theater, given a pair of 3-D glasses, and prepared ourselves for the big show that
night known as “Laser Flashback.” Not quite knowing what to expect, we were exposed to an ear-piercing laser show/concert featuring
such artists as Jimi Hendrix, the Grateful Dead, and The Doors. We were taken on an emotional roller coaster, with
psychedelic colors and shapes dancing in front of our faces. One could compare the show to a freakish dream, an
art form overwhelming the senses of sight and hearing, or to an artificial collection of drug-induced hallucinations. It was quite
an experience having Jimi, Jerry, and Jimgiving me a personal concert in my ear, but also a thrilling one. The
lasers were especially amazing, creating both weird forms and recognizable ones. The Mystery Tour was a welcomed escape from reality,
and one that the participating freshmen enjoyed. As we were truckin’ on back to Davidson, the familiar phrases danced in
our minds. Come on baby light my fire; it’s just a box of rain; and the wind began to howl.
All I have to say is ... what a long, strange trip it’s been!

FIRST LET
Freshmen Stephen Gamboa, Laura Shearon, Chase Coffey, Chris Richards, Erin Woodall, Staff Grayson Carter, and Coddy Coddington cheese for the
camera.

We need good writers. We need help. We need you! Write for Arts and Living. Call Susan or Jill at
x2148.

HOROSCOPE: By Dorcas AND SLIM Consulting Astrologists

Virgo (August 23-September 22)—Build a Geodesic dome. Make it shiny. Use Epcot as a model or one of the biospheres.
Lucky Person: Buckminster Fuller.

Libra (September 23-October 22)—This week you only live twice, so live and let die. This message comes from Russia, with
love: Octopussy does have eight legs. Lucky Person: Oddjob. Lucky Gadget: gun.

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)—Perform ablutions with Mr. Clean. His pate is good for scrubbing. Lucky person: Saye Massengil and/or Shaw
Smith.

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21)—Find yourself climbing Mt. Parnassus. Compose poems or other elegant literature there, north of the Gulf of
Corinth. Lucky instrument: lyre, mandolin, lute, flute, kettledrums or Casio™ keyboards.

Capricorn (December 22-January 19)—Teach English as a Second Language. Repeat this phrase: Mr. Rogers has a gopher. No luck? Try
teaching Spanish. Can you say S-O-C-K-S? Lucky pedagogical device: Speak & Spell™ or See-N-Say™.

Aquarius (January 20-February 18)—Native Meso-Americans called “corn” “maize.” They also had different words for other things. Beware the doctrine of
oppression: Manifest Destiny.

Pisces (February 19-March 20)—This week, beware of the perils of libel. Words hurt, but they’re not fatal. Watch for falling
prices! Day discount murderer of communal America: Wal-Mart.

Aries (March 21-April 19)—Express yourself in a different tongue. Ye Olde English impresses even the most jaded professor. Try this:
“Fie, ye wanton hussy! A pox on thee, scurvied knave!” Lucky tale: The Summoner’s, as told by Sting. Lucky place:
any shoppe.

Taurus (April 20-May 20)—Many find peace in linoleum printing. Make a Bible like Gutenberg. Then sell it as a real
one. Honor Code or Code of Responsibility—you be the judge. Lucky Guildhall: whichever one you can think of at the
moment.

Gemini (May 21-June 20)—Life passes you by when you are iced in a pillory. You will be subjected to vegetable
justice and the stockades hurt delicate skin. Unlucky vegetable: GIANT Squash.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)—You Rock.

Leo (July 23-August 22)—Watch what is in your favorite food. Even though Methylchloroisothiazolinone may sound okay, it’s not. It will
make you barf hard. Unlucky ingredients: Methylchloroisothiazolinone and partially hydrogenated soybean oil.

Nominations needed for Goodwin-Exxon Award
$500 educational grant and $100 grant to charity. Students, faculty, and staff should stop by Dean of Students Office. Submissions
due October 3. Call 892-2225 for more info.
