OPINIONS . MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1996

Rebekah Peeples

Are you starving your way to perfection?

Today marks the beginning of National Eating Disorders Awareness Week. Most students at Davidson, however, don’t need a national event
to make them aware of eating disorders. Everyone heard the lecture in P.E. 101, and most of us can remember
the signs in the Chambers and library bathrooms hoping to help someone suffering from bulimia last year. Even if you
don’t think you know someone at Davidson with an eating disorder, chances are that you would be surprised to discover
that you do.

Actually, it shouldn’t surprise us that these problems occur with frequency at Davidson — a list of traits that often
accompany eating disorders reads like a description of the Davidson student body: Successful. Perfectionistic. Organized. Goal-Oriented. Competitive. Disciplined. Over-Achieving. Given
the high concentration of individuals fitting this description at Davidson, we can hardly be surprised that eating disorders are all
too common on this campus.

In addition to these personality traits that could make a Davidson student more prone to developing an eating disorder, the
stressful environment of Davidson academic life does us no favors. Although eating disorders develop from a wide range of individual
factors, many recoverers say that it’s not necessarily about being thin. Eating disorders are often about control, about thinking, “If
I can’t control my grades, my friends, or my environment, then at least I can control my body.”

Eating disorders also involve a complex web of emotional issues. A friend from home who has wrestled with anorexia for
several years confided to me over Christmas break that, for her, the disease was her weapon against pain; the way
she found to numb herself from the agony of grief, loss, and failure. Her body became the casualty of a
personal emotional war.

If we begin to understand these diseases more fully, we begin to realize that the cure is far more complex
than just eating. For us to be able to help a friend or loved one who suffers from disordered eating,
we must be willing to reach beyond the comfortable remedy of cooking their favorite meals. We must begin to accept
ourselves as we are — faults and all — and give ourselves permission to not be perfect. The struggle for
perfection can lead us to sacrifice relationships, experiences, and our physical beings if that struggle becomes an eating disorder.

In the meantime, this week offers tremendous opportunities to learn both about eating disorders and about how to help a
friend who might be suffering from one. This evening, Dr. DeWitt Crosby and Georgia Ringle will join a group of
students to discuss “What Helps” through students’ personal accounts at 7:30 in the Carolina Inn. Wednesday, Dr. Nina Serebrenikov will
present “The Very Skinny Woman in the Very Expensive Clothes: Images of Women in Advertising” at 7:30 in the VAC.
Finally, the Student Counseling Center will offer free screening for eating disorders from 9 a.m. to noon every day this
week. I urge everyone to take advantage of the opportunities this week to become more educated about a disease that
hits so close to home.

Naresh Nagella

1 in 1618

Name: Seth DeVere Clippard
Year: Junior
Hometown: Chattanooga, TN
Favorite class yet at Davidson: Modern Criticisms of Religion with Dr. Poland.
Prediction for Election ‘96: Clinton.
Favorite place on campus: Right now it’s the gravel walkway between the library and Duke at night.

Rachel Cockrill thinks that Davidson fosters regression. Do you think you’ve grown or regressed in your time here?
I think I’ve grown. Some of my growth I would attribute to observing the regression of others. Other factors like
going abroad and various people I’ve met here helped me grow. There is one aspect of Davidson which seems to
be a reinforcement of a high school mentality — in regards to social life. Some [students] are academically mature but
emotionally are in some sort of limbo.

What do you do in your free time?
What free time? I like to sit and breathe. Go slowly, smile and breathe. That’s a quotation from Thich Nhat
Hanh — a Buddhist monk.

This week, Tripp Franklin asks “Can love exist at Davidson?” What do you think?
Yes. I think in terms of just two hearts coming together without any concern for their surroundings or their environment
that that’s something that can happen because that is the kind of coincidence that occurs all over the world. But,
in terms of an actual, working relationship, if you throw the ingredient of Davidson it increases the difficulty tenfold. In
terms of a non-intimate kind of love that strangely Davidson is really conducive to have someone grow like that.

If you did it all again would you come back to Davidson?
Oh yeah.

In the January 29 issue of The Davidsonian a sentence in the article “Davidson and the Church” by A.J. McKelway
read, “Exclusion defeats not only good learning, but the very openness and inclusiveness that defines authentic Christianity.”The correct version is,
“Exclusion defeats not only good learning, but also the openness essential to a Christian approach to higher education.” We apologize
for the mistake.

Seize the challenge of the new age! Well, we are well into our new year, and that feeling of “newness”
still exists. You know, that feeling of a clean slate on which lies redemption and hope that this year we
will grow, be better, and do more than we did last year. I can see it on everyone’s faces and
mine. Everyone’s classes are better this semester, and everyone is studying, our youthful idealism is shining bright. At least, until
we get our first grades. Yes, everywhere you can feel the hope, the vigor, the dreams, the “newness.” Still, some
skeptics out there are probably thinking, “Yeah, but it will get old soon. Everything does. We’ll all be hating life
in about two weeks.” Most years, I would agree, but in 1996, I beg to differ.

Do You Want To Go Today? Yes, the richest man on this planet wants us to go somewhere, do something.
He wants us to grow, search, and discover. As long as you do it on Windows ‘95. You say so
far this “Doing Stuff” stuff is confined only to the elite, huh? Well, don’t worry it will trickle down —
onto the funny pages. Everyone’s favorite comic strip ended with 1995 as Bill Watterson drew Calvin and Hobbes for the
last time. What was that strip’s last message, you ask? Well, it featured our favorite eight-year-old and his tiger walking
in the morning to play in a new snow. Hobbes comments, “Isn’t it great, Calvin? It’s like a brand new
piece of paper to draw on?” Calvin, for once, agrees and talks about life’s challenges. Finally, the two friends slide
away, with Calvin’s last words being, “Let’s go exploring!” Even a little kid and his doll are telling us that
there is a whole world out there, that we can make it whatever we want, and that it is ours
to explore. As long as we go somewhere and do some stuff. That is the key.

Folks, we are in a cycle. At least I think we are. We go into these cycles every 10 years
or so, usually grouped by the decade in which they begin. You know, 60s liberalism, 70s weirdness, and 80s greed.
Many of you might be thinking, what about the 90s? Well, I think I have the answer and it is
not Hootie and the Blowfish. The 90s will be the “Decade of Doing.” It’s already started. Actually, the first sign
of it was in 1990, with the release of Dead Poets Society. This movie touted the mantra “Carpe Diem.” People
thought that was cool. Everybody was talking about seizing this and seizing that. Then, the Gulf War and the recession
happened. War and lack of money can really put a damper on doing or seizing stuff. So the decade stalled
for a little while.

Enter the first liberal to enter the White House in 12 years. He won on a platform of “change” in
1992. He wanted to get things done. He wanted to do stuff. The “Revolution of Doing” had started. It had
Presidential approval. He would change his mind about this, like he does everything else, but he would return later. He
always does (more on that later). Next, enter a man so rich he could buy your parents. Bill Gates and
his Windows have hit it big this decade. This man and his software run the world. Along with his rise,
came the internet and World Wide Web, a.k.a, “A great way to spend three hours in the library not studying.”
Anyway, his company’s slogan is: “Where do you want to go today?”

Finally, we come back to our President who finally gave direct approval to this decade by declaring “The Age of
Possibility” in his State of the Union speech. He sees a possibility of better schools, safer streets, and a new
morality. Anyway you look at it, though, possibility can only mean one thing: stuff will happen, things will be done.
It’s all possible, now.

Well, there you have it everyone. We are in the “Age of Possibility.” We can “go anywhere we want on
any day.” And, we should all “go exploring.” Carpe Diem can come in any form, now. It has blossomed and
matured. So, I hope you are happy with the “Decade of Doing.” I am. I hope it leads to people
loving and understanding life. I hope people will not so much “seize the day” as “seize the challenge.” The opportunities
and possibilities are endless. Who knows what the next decade, which will be the next century, will bring? Right now,
all you can do is do something, go somewhere, or explore. You better hurry, though. Only five more years are
left. This decade should be longer.
