MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1996 NEWS THE DAVIDSONIAN

James Swisher: A legend in Davidson music, 1949 — 1996

Jim Swisher taught music at Davidson for eighteen years. He acted as pianist-in-residence for several years as well, but he
retired last year because he was suffering from cancer. He died last Sunday night. Here a student and a colleague
express what Jim Swisher means to them. The following is excerpted from Professor Bill Lawing’s retirement speech last spring for
Jim Swisher.

Two weeks ago, those of us who heard Jim Swisher perform in Love Auditorium experienced one of the most musically
moving and emotionally touching moments of our lives. It was an evening that reminded us of Jim’s gifts, in music
and life, that he has shared with us for eighteen years. Endowed with a multiplicity of talents and interests, Jim
entered Yale unsure of a career goal. He excelled in writing, running, acting, painting, and he also played chamber music,
fostered especially through the Nikos trio, which has celebrated ten years of performance excellence. All these professional accomplishments, by themselves,
are goals to emulate. But in so many ways, they pale beside Jim’s other contributions to Davidson College and to
this community.

In his 1978 cover letter that accompanied his application for his position, Jim wrote, “I am personally convinced that the
interdependence of disciplines and ideas is indispensable for education at any level.” In so very that process, with a stubborn,
vocal, irreverent, argumentative, Catholic, Italian, Midwestern musician representing the faculty, speaks volumes about you — and about him.

Jim’s community activities fostered his other loves. His involvement with the Davidson Community Players was a fulfillment of his earlier
love of acting. As much as I treasure Jim for his piano artistry, I also treasure his convincing performance in
The Cherry Orchard and The Diary of Anne Frank. He and Rita were also faithful members of the DCPC choir
in the years the piano on the side. Winning the Yale Symphony Concerto Competition in his sophomore year moved him
toward a career in music. In his remaining years at Yale, his musical life took shape, as Jim increasingly found
himself active as a chamber musician, and as an advocate of contemporary, especially American contemporary music. Jim found a natural
home in chamber ensembles, where his love of conversation and discussion could be expressed in the language of music. After
several years performing with a professional trio, and teaching part-time at Wesleyan University, Jim arrived at Davidson in 1978, and
began a most remarkable career that has included over fifty performances on campus, not to mention, a reputation as one
of the greatest teachers this College has known. Within a month of his arrival he gave us the first of
many electrifying performances, a recital that included music of Beethoven, Chopin, Debussy, and especially the Six Pieces of Arnold Schoenberg,
the performance of which reshaped my own sense of the musicianship of that twentieth-century pioneer.

There are so many other memorable performances. I especially recall two. One was his performance of the entire 24 Chopin
preludes, where Jim, the consummate chamber musician, conversed with the gods, or maybe Chopin himself, through the thunderstorms that punctuated
the evening. A second was the dedicatory recital of the Donald.

Lessons in Life
By Elizabeth Field

Music lies deep in the core of my being, rarely uncovered by anyone but myself. I learned on the day
of my first piano lesson with Dr. Swisher that he was someone who could peel away the layers of reserve
which surround this core and see my true feelings and thoughts. I had planned to walk into this lesson with
a smile on my face and say a polite “nice to see you,” then sit down to play the Bach
prelude and fugue which I had been working on the previous semester. It didn’t happen. From the minute I stepped
into the door, Dr. Swisher seemed so intent on knowing how I was and how my first semester had gone
that I knew if I played the Bach the way I was really feeling, he would know there was something
wrong. “I broke up with my boyfriend last night,” I blurted out, immediately regretting that I had told this to
someone whom I had only met once before. Dr. Swisher quickly allayed those regrets. We spent fifteen minutes talking about
relationships and left forty-five for Bach. Each lesson with Dr. Swisher was like that, although later into the semester I
didn’t have to verbalize my thoughts because he could read them just by listening to me play. In this way,
friendship with Dr. Swisher was challenging in the best sense of the word because there was no hiding from him.
By knowing him, I knew myself better than I had before. Music is a language which Dr. Swisher could understand
better than anyone else I have ever met. To hear him play Mozart or Brahms or Grieg was to hear
a dialogue spanning the centuries between musicians who knew what it meant truly to appreciate life. Now that Dr. Swisher
is gone, Davidson College has lost a friend and a teacher in the truest meaning of the word. I am
sure, however, that he would not want us to focus on what we have lost, but rather what we have
to look forward to. Dr. Swisher made us confront our innermost beliefs and emotions. By continuing to do that on
our own, we will keep his memory alive.Plott piano, which required on-stage seating to accommodate the overflow crowd. I remember
how well Jim kept his composure that evening, as he contended with an unusually close audience. Jim’s performance activities outside
of Davidson have included recitals throughout the country, concerto appearances (two of which were world premieres), and a continued love
of many ways. Jim has spent his career fulfilling that philosophy. He spent several years in the Humanities program and
gave to it a greater understanding of our art. His lectures in Humes, as in all of his courses, have
been cited on many occasions as the best examples of truly inspired teaching. Indeed, I believe that as a lecturer
he is unequalled at this institution. His love of disciplines and topics beyond music brought him commonly to classrooms that
spanned the arts and sciences, as a guest lecturer who could not only discuss music, but who could relate it
to the non-musical audience he was addressing.

Other services to Davidson have included several years as a member of the Admissions Committee, and membership, now 13 years
ago, on our last Presidential Selection Committee. Mr. President, for you to have come through they resided in Davidson. Jim’s
friends and colleagues seem to have vastly different ways of characterizing him. Appropriately, these remarks form a mosaic of this
wonderfully complex man. One perception, which all of us who have watched Jim perform can appreciate, is of his tremendous
performance flair. His concert performances are elegant, athletic, and graceful. Watching Jim perform is as absorbing as listening to the
music he is performing. A former student observed that Jim holds a special ability to define what he wants out
of his life and focus his energies in pursuit of those ambitions. Certainly, his marriage of career and family is
an example. He has relocated twice, each time farther from Davidson, to support Rita’s studies and career, and to give
Anna and Tali greater opportunities. At the beginning of Rita’s career as a radiologist, Jim chose to take a two-year
leave of absence to manage the family’s affairs. His return to Davidson was marked by a richly deserved new title,
Pianist-in-Residence, and by a narrower focus: that of performing as much as possible, and of teaching a most fortunate cadre
of piano students. These events are remarkable testaments not only to Jim’s ability to define his aspirations but also to
his willingness to sacrifice to achieve them.

Words of praise and admiration flow freely. From one colleague, “His combination of scholarship and sheer intelligence combined with wit
and dedication to his craft makes him an extraordinary teacher. He is always willing to learn. When he makes a
mistake (once every decade or so), he is able to admit it and to learn from it.” From another: “He
will not back down in the face of a good argument. He is the type of friend who will tell
you to your face that you have made a stupid fool of yourself. That is a quality some people never
learn to appreciate, but for those of us who did, he is a valued friend.” And finally, “I am touched
and astounded by the unusual courage and tranquility with which he has faced, and continues to face, his illness.”

But the central issue of Jim, and the ways he has affected our lives, is actually quite simple. It is
music. Again a remark from a friend: “One of his gifts is to see music as the center of the
universe, since it gets at the issues that really matter: love, hope, and courage. I will always remember his lecture
on the final scene from The Marriage of Figaro. He talked about love and forgiveness and the wonderful way in
which Mozart charmed us into forgiving a flawed man.” Similar statements were made by his brother, and perhaps his closest
friend, Michael, who wanted to correct an impression that was given in a recent interview in the Charlotte Observer. The
article describes how Jim came close to tears on several occasions during the interview, and it links those emotional moments
to his illness. As Michael related, the reporter never reached what was really important to Jim. “Jimmy was not overcome
over his own mortality. He hasn’t cried once about that. He was overcome when he began talking about music. He
is so awed and astounded by music, by the fact that it even exists, that he reacts emotionally to the
contemplation of its existence. I am sure that as he considers his future, that he will miss his life far
less than he will miss his music.”

There is one additional quality: Jim is as gifted a partier as anyone who has ever graced this faculty. His
wit and humor are most sparkling in social occasions. Jim, for now, we honor you and give you thanks in
a formal manner, but in about a half hour, after the faculty passes the music minor, we will toast and
roast. It’s a shame that you won’t be here with us, if for no other reason than to prove, once
again, that you can outlast us all. Jim, we hope a miracle or two comes your way. We express to
you our immeasurable gratitude for the life, and its music, that you have shared with us.
