6 THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1996

Scott Lafranchi

There were no surprises at the Democratic National Convention of 1996; contemporary politics were at their best. The majority have
become caught up in the emotional speeches, the multi-media presentations, and the election year rhetoric. However, after the balloons were
dropped, the songs sang, and the tears shed, a void still remains in the hearts of those who dared to
listen. Leadership has not yet emerged.

Look beyond tax credits for families with children, tax credits for college education, tax credits for homeownership, and tax incentives
for companies who hire people on welfare. Sounds to me like Dick Morris, Clinton’s chief advisor, had somewhat of an
effect on moving him towards the middle. But Morris no longer works for the Clinton administration. Which brings me to
my next point: character. Even though I do not believe that the character debate should monopolize the policy debate, one
must wonder about the integrity of a president, when they have eight cabinet members under investigation, their chief counsel is
dead, and their main advisor is resigning because he was using White House funds to support his weekly escapades with
a prostitute.

After all of this, I cannot bring myself to understand how the delegates of the Democratic Convention can dance and
cheer for a president who refuses to acknowledge the problems at hand. He paints a picture of hope with his
colorful language and his appealing demeanor, but are we really listening to what is behind the fluff, or do we
even want to? It is imperative that we address our financial gloom or at least listen to someone who does.
Or will we continue to support a president who promises that he will protect children, when he is actually failing
to recognize that we have a total of $20 trillion dollars in debt: $5 trillion in funded liabilities (bonds, treasury
bills), and $15 trillion in unfunded liabilities (social security and Medicare). At 7% interest we have an annual fee of
$1.4 trillion, and that is just for the debt service. We only take in $1.5 trillion per annum in taxes,
and obviously, we do not spend all of our taxes on the debt service. Consequently, it is clear that this
problem is omnipotent. No, we do not need the tax incentives that President Clinton is proposing, nor Dole’s 15% tax
cut approach to winning votes. Since when do you pay off a debt by decreasing your income?

At first glance, one might say that there are no more options after Clinton or Dole. Difficult as it may
be, I encourage you to look to someone outside the ranks of Republicans and Democrats. We need someone who has
consistently addressed the debt. We need someone who has had success in an executive position. We need someone who listens
to his heart and has the will to follow it. I dare you to not be swayed by shallow rhetoric,
but rather to direct your attention towards someone who speaks the truth, even though they might come hand-in-hand with a
pile of charts, big ears, and a twangy Southern accent. Yes, President Clinton can work a crowd and Dole was
indeed a war hero, but that is not what being a president is all about. Being a president is about
speaking the truth, following through on what you say, and leading the people. So when election day comes, do what
is right, not just that which feels secure.

Election ’96 BY RACHEL ANDERSON

Davidson’s role in November

In November of 1994, low voter turnout was reported among Americans between the ages of 18 and 29. Many predict
similar results in the upcoming presidential elections with youth expected to vote less than any other group. Due either to
apathy or disillusionment with the political process, today’s youth may be less politically active than previous generations. Are these trends
reflected on Davidson’s campus? Some students sense low levels of political awareness and activism. Yet, campus-wide support for service projects
such as Habitat for Humanity and the commonly-held goal of helping others in a future career belie a commitment to
the community which is far from apathetic.

Several factors complicate the translation of personal beliefs into a political choice. Voters are uncertain about...the efficacy of their vote
and are skeptical of politicians’ promises to meet their demands. Senior Tracy Privette commented that although she has become more
aware of certain issues during her time at Davidson, “It is hard to know which candidate will actually address those
issues.”

As the general election approaches, political activity has been increasing among students. Several campus organizations are already preparing for the
election season. The Campus Forum Union Committee will sponsor speakers and topical discussions during CROP lunch every other week in
the hope of increasing awareness on major issues. College Republicans and College Democrats both report growing numbers, including many enthusiastic
and dedicated freshmen. According to Kelly Cunningham, president of College Democrats, interest had waned after the 1992 election, but is
now even greater than four years ago. “This is the biggest and best organized group since I’ve been here,” she
said. College Democrats plan to work for voter registration in Davidson and Charlotte, as well as participate in some of
the state and local campaigns. College Republicans will also hold voter registration and absentee ballot drives before the October deadline.
They plan to hold events and publish a newsletter focusing on issues of special importance to students. College Republicans vice-president
Andrew Marvin sees this year as a turning point in national politics in which many conservative-minded students will become involved
in the political process.

International...
- One thousand delegates, including activists and government officials representing 130 countries, met at the World Congress in Stockholm, Sweden
last week. The international conference was designed to raise awareness of the worldwide child sex trade phenomenon. The United States
Government did not send delegates.
- The British Government recently agreed to pay $1.6 million per year for the next three years to a private
consultant charged with managing the nation’s latest anti-smoking campaign, named “Respect,” geared toward young people.
- The Titanic’s remains are being recovered from their resting place just off Newfoundland. Last week a section of the
Titanic’s hull, weighing 21 tons, had almost been lifted to the ocean surface when the nylon cables which supported it
snapped, sending the piece straight back down to the ocean floor two and a half miles below. After the mishap,
the decision was made to call off the $5 million expedition.

National...
- A drug derived from the adrenal gland of common farm animals such as cattle and pigs is the culprit
in 54 recent cases of bacterial infection in humans. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) last week put the nation
on alert, warning Americans of the potentially harmful effects of injecting the drug. Adrenal cortex extract is not approved by
the FDA, but is being billed as both a key to weight loss and a treatment for burns.
- Cardinal Joseph Bernadin, the spiritual leader of Chicago’s 2.3 million Catholic population, revealed last week that doctors have informed
him that he will likely face death within the next 12 months. He was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer 14 months
ago.

Local...
- ValuJet officials confirm that the company will return to the airline industry next month. Later this year, ValuJet plans
to again provide service to Raleigh-Durham International Airport. Officials said service to Charlotte/Douglas International Airport is scheduled to resume in
1997.
- Fans of Andrew Lloyd Webber’s “Phantom of the Opera” have already snapped up 120,000 tickets to see the show
during its seven and a half week stay in Charlotte. Ticket prices range from $16.50 to $66.50. Phantom’s Third National
Company, which came to Charlotte in late August from Milwaukee, will hold 64 performances at Charlotte’s Blumenthal Performing Arts Center
until October 19. Last week, the Charlotte Observer reported that only 8,000 tickets were still available.

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1. Hurried
5. Masculine
9. Sinew
13. Busy place
14. New
15. Stratagem
16. Tavern brews
17. Come up
18. Pay up
19. Merited
21. Shed
23. Regret
24. See
25. African fly
28. Came in
32. Tilting
33. Endure
35. Whitney or Wallach
36. Cover
37. Campers’ homes
38. Transgress
39. Pindaric work
40. Sunbeams
41. Stockholm resident
43. Tense
46. Exultantly proud
47. Other
48. Period
50. Garden growth
52. “And now I am the ruler of the conquered Queen’s —.”
57. Wan
58. Size of type
60. Avis
61. Chills and fever
62. Artist's item
63. Mild oath
64. Activist
65. Building place
66. Printing direction

DOWN
1. — Miserables
2. Heap
3. Holiday times
4. Strands
5. Additional
6. Enthusiastic
7. Components
8. “The Rose of —”
9. Diligent search
10. Punto de! —
11. Car of old
12. Garden growth
14. “And now I am the ruler of the conquered Queen’s —.”
20. Corrode
22. Former
24. Annoying ones
25. Bird's weapon
26. Playground equipment
27. Large seaduck
29. Adjust a clock
30. Omit syllables
31. Rent
32. Indefinite number
33. Guardians of a kind
34. Indefinite number
37. Guardians of a kind
41. Opening for a coin
42. Irrigated
44. Surface layer
45. Corridor cheer
46. Car of old
49. Nail
50. Shakespearean villain
51. Adhesive
52. Spray
53. Suit to —
54. Anger
55. Of a historic time
56. Miami's county
59. Chou En—
