THE DAVIDSONIAN

I have been considering for a while whether to write an editorial concerning the events that have taken place between the school administration and me about the case of Rob Neigert — the person who cut Chris Machon’s hand and threatened to kill me. I fear partially the consequences of my actions because I may overstep some bounds of secrecy of which I was unaware. But students and faculty need to know the truth of what’s happening around them. After all, “Davidson is dedicated to the quest for truth and encourages teachers and students to explore the whole of reality” (Course Book 6).

Though the Code of Responsibilities hearing has ended, I still must attend a hearing in Charlotte on January 23, 1997. So for me, the past events are not completely finished. However, I am not writing this to rehash the past or gain pity. I am writing this because I hope to gain verbal and written support from the students, faculty, and staff. I am writing to initiate a change in the way the school handles the needs of victims in criminal cases.

Most people do not know that I spent about three hours (from 4:30 to 7 in the morning) trying to find the Magistrate’s office in Charlotte and upon finding it was told to go to the police station where I spent 30 minutes explaining the situation, then was directed back to the Magistrate’s office. Though my roommate went with me, I had no one from Davidson to guide me through this ordeal. Though the Dean of Students has apologized for this oversight, I have not heard that it will not happen again.

I hope that the administration will work with a student organization (or the counseling center) that will always be on campus to assist (by assist I mean go with the victim to Charlotte or wherever else) victims when a crime takes place. Besides helping, the organization — which should include faculty, students, and staff — should know and tell the victim what might result from pressing charges outside (and inside) of Davidson. If the administration truly cares about the lives of Davidson students, then it will go beyond its responsibilities on Davidson College campus and help students with the Charlotte/Mecklenburg judicial system.

The organization that decides to work with the administration to help students involved in criminal cases will certainly have difficulty in getting the cooperation of the administration due to the amount of secrecy involved in the Code of Responsibilities hearings. But as long as they are pressured by a large group of students and faculty, they should listen. Maybe parents should also be involved in writing letters to the president of the College.

The Office of the Dean of Students made clear that they did not like that The Davidsonian published the story concerning what took place between Rob Neigert and me. The Dean of Students’ Office would prefer that all this business be kept quiet — maybe they are thinking of my feelings and how the story would affect me. Maybe not. Maybe they are protecting themselves.

The students need to know that Davidson College is not a paradise where they are always safe. Crimes can happen here just like anywhere else. They also need to know that the administration is going to be forceful and successful in taking care of both the victim and the criminal. If the administration could do this, it would strengthen the students’ trust in the college. Keeping secrets can protect an organization, but one day a detrimental secret will become known publicly, and the trust that most students have in Davidson will diminish greatly.

I am also asking for help in pressuring the school to provide a lawyer for students who cannot afford one. Schools like ours should have a lawyer to represent their students, so why can’t we? If cost is the excuse, I find that hard to believe. I’m sure the school can cut back on the number of times they change the flowers around campus or enact other financial changes in order to provide a lawyer for students in need of one. If the school did provide a lawyer, he or she could go with the student to court and tell the student what to expect and what to do. A lawyer would also provide more support for victims which in turn would initiate greater trust in the school administration on the part of the students.

I am asking students to write President Kuykendall and the Dean of Students concerning these problems. But it’s not only the students I need help from. I also need faculty and staff to put pressure on the administration so that they will listen and act. I want the school...To know that I’m not trying to act against the administration. I want the school to understand that I am serious and that I want to work with them. But it will only work if the administration, faculty, and students are sincere about wanting to change and correct the problems of safety and faculty.

So very many of you know the story I am about to tell. You know it because you have been a part of the Davidson community that has become our extended family. You have cut our grass and cooked our meals. Most importantly, you have held us in your hearts and in your prayers, and you have helped us carry a burden that continues to challenge us. Project Life’s Bone Marrow Drive is here, and I write in hopes that our story will convince each and every member of our campus and our community to help by getting on the registry.

Fate has given my three-year-old son Jack two birthdays. His birth certificate reads August 9, 1993, but it was on June 28, 1996, that he received a second chance at life. It was on that day at Duke University Medical Center’s Pediatric Bone Marrow Transplant Unit that Jack received bone marrow from his eight-year-old brother Cormac. In April of this year, Jack was diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), a relatively rare form of cancer in young children. We soon learned that the only hope for Jack’s malignant blood cancer was to get the leukemia in remission with chemotherapy and to follow with a bone marrow transplant.

Within days, Cormac, my husband Kevin, and I were tested for a match. As we awaited the result of our blood tests, I mercifully did not know the statistics I am going to share with you. The possibility of a perfect “match” (matching on all 6 antigens) for bone marrow from a parent or sibling is only between 20-25%. Outside of the immediate family, a stranger has as much of a chance of a “match” as a perfect stranger. Finding a match in the general population is only about 1 in 20,000, with many of these not being perfect matches.

In the weeks following his diagnosis, Jack received two rounds of chemotherapy, interspersed with weeks in the hospital fighting various infections. On Father’s Day, we traveled to Duke to undergo extremely dangerous chemotherapy, as we “killed” his bone marrow and his immune system in preparation for the transplant. On June 28, Cormac’s bone marrow was “harvested” through a series of needle extractions from his pelvic bone. The bag of bone marrow, roughly a quart, was still warm in Kevin’s hand as they prepared to “transplant” it into Jack through his central venous catheter. There is no “operation” or “transplant” in the sense of an organ transplant. Through what remains to me both a mystery of medicine as well as a sign of God’s grace, the marrow cells find their home in Jack’s system over the next weeks and months.

The stories of the following weeks on the isolation unit were filled with great pain and great joy as Jack battled infections and graft-versus-host disease. We still have five years of watching and waiting for Jack’s leukemia to be considered “cured,” but without the bone marrow transplant, we would have had absolutely no hope. Because Jack had a sibling donor, we have hope and Jack is alive, but a number of the children with us on the Bone Marrow Unit were not so lucky. On the seven-bed isolation unit, all of the other children were without a perfect “match,” receiving instead the more experimental bone marrow transplant from umbilical cord blood from a New York hospital involved in a joint study.

I lived with these families and their children, and I will carry with me as long as I shall live the pain of seeing five children, each with different cancer, die post-transplant: Morgan Story, 7 1/2 months, on July 12; Nicole Hendrix, 2 1/2, on August 4; Cody Stanley, 4 1/2, on August 6; Lisa Sykes, 13, on October 11; and James Hellier, 2 1/2, on October 16. Their chances of survival might have been better had they had a better match. Please, please take the time to offer someone a second chance at life. Support Project Life and the Bone Marrow Drive. Remember the families of Morgan, Nicole, Cody, Lisa, and James as you continue to remember Jack, and give a second “birthday.”

YOU WALK AROUND IN A RITUALIZED EXCHANGE OF SIMMERING RESENTMENT AND SIMMERING RAGE.