4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1996

Scuba club dives into existence
By JOHN DUNWOODY
Staff Writer

In an effort to tap into Davidson’s diving interest, junior Jarett Weinpel is chartering the Scuba Club. Weinpel says, “Many
Davidson students have received their Scuba Certification, but have not had the opportunity to use it. What I hope to
do is create a club where interested students can get their certification, pursue higher levels of certification and be able
to use this certification on a regular basis.”

The first official club meeting was September 27. Weinpel was excited to see that the interest in diving was alive
and well at Davidson. As Weinpel says, “I’d like to show people that there is more to the sport of
scuba diving than what people think.” He has been diving ever since he was 14 and has wanted to do
it since he first came to Davidson. Weinpel asks, “If Davidson Outdoors is doing it, why can’t we?” in response
to the planning of future trips and activities. Tentative diving destinations include the Bahamas, West Palm Beach, and swimming with
the Manatees in Florida. Another possible diving adventure includes visiting a sunken town and underwater forests.

Davidson’s Scuba Club is sponsored by the Charlotte Dive Center, owned by Ken Charnack. This allows the club to have
a number of advantages: equipment, trips, and certification classes are all offered to Davidson students in the club at special
rates. Affiliation with the Dive Center also allows club members to have a current knowledge of the opportunities and events
in the diving world.

Jarett Weinpel chats with prospective divers.
Anna Hathaway

More fun than a barrel of monkeys
Cerutti sets up state-of-the-art laboratory for the psych. dept.
By JEFFREY COKER
Science Staff Writer

Psychology Professor Dan Cerutti no longer studies primates, but the affectionate nickname “Dan, Dan, The Monkey Man” has stuck among
his students. “I must admit that it’s quite embarrassing,” remarks Cerutti. He doesn’t monkey around much, though. When he came
to the psychology department in 1993, the lab he was assigned had been collecting dust for almost a decade. Since
then, he has erected an impressive state-of-the-art laboratory for studying pigeon and rat behavior that is the envy of more
than one big research institution.

If imitation is truly the ultimate flattery, then researchers from Duke, Indiana University, and Germany who are modeling their labs
after Cerutti’s offer quite a compliment. “I’m very proud of this lab... More and more students are getting involved in
research,” says Cerutti.

Cerutti set up the entire lab himself, from the computer programming to the electronics. His latest study on pigeon behavior
is being done with junior Danielle Carroll. Their research shows that accurate foraging performance is based more on stimulus position,
and less on stimulus appearance. A preliminary study, titled “Pigeons foraging in a virtual maze” was presented this summer at
the Interamerican and Iberoamerican Meeting of Behavior Analysis in Veracruz, Mexico. Similar behavioral researchis being done with students Brian Ruscito
and Mattison Ward. Cerutti points to the “magnificent” scientific work of his lab students as his “greatest personal success.” All
Cerutti’s behavioral research topics, including foraging, primates, ADHD, schizophrenia, and drug effects in retarded children, have followed a common theme.
“What can we know about the world?” he asks. “It seems like a philosophical thing, but I want to get
at it empirically. We’re putting numbers on behavior... This kind of psychology eventually teaches us about ourselves.”

FROM THE ARCHIVES
By Erica THORSON
Staff Writer

Life at Davidson during World War II

A casualty of the Second World War, the ideal Davidsonian life ceased to exist in the early 1940s. Despite a
shortage of students, faculty, and funding, students of the nearly barren wartime institution embraced their school and welcomed the return
of prewar traditions and campus life as 1946 approached. Davidson College in no way escaped World War II’s far-reaching effects.
Young men who were once eager, idealistic students returned as weathered veterans. Those who had remained at school soon adapted
to many changes, including a married couples’ dormitory.

In the 1940s, like today, athletics came second to academics. Then, as now, Davidson’s student body took part in competitive
sports with fervor. With an enrollment of only 321 in the fall of 1945, Davidson fielded a football team which
included mostly freshmen. A staple of collegiate entertainment, the team chose to compete against high schools and prep schools rather
than suspend play. Evidence of Davidson’s pride, the wartime student body relished these games with as much zeal as would
be aroused by a varsity squad. Davidson athletics at the time also consisted of basketball, track and field, tennis, and
golf.

Women at Davidson were greatest in number when busloads of college-age females converged on campus for weekends of dates, dances,
and fraternity parties or when Davidson men scoured the countryside for dates to the Fall, Midwinter, and Spring Frolic dances.
In addition, at this time women made significant contributions to the school by sponsoring a variety of organizations. It was
not uncommon for the girlfriend or sister of a Davidson student to act as sponsor of a club, fraternity, or
class.

Even in the mid-forties, Davidson’s Honor Code was greatly important to students. Composed of upperclassmen, the “Court of Control” established
and maintained freshman discipline or judged cases involving violations of freshman regulations or college traditions. Students were so trustworthy that
both the library and the student store ran on the honor code. Davidson’s first post-WWII graduating class was a mix
of remnants of pre-war Davidson who returned to school after military service, as well as students who completed their education
in the traditional four years.

Did the CATS line get you down? Have any suggestions or questions for academic policy? Contact the Council on Academic
Affairs, find the suggestion box on the SGA bulletin board, or contact Liz Abernathy, -6809.
