2. THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS BRIEFS

Minors Forum to be held
The Council on Academic Affairs will hold an open forum on minors Wednesday at 4 p.m. in Chambers Gallery. Everyone
is welcome, refreshments provided.

Independent Senator Resigns
An election to fill two vacant SGA Senate seats will be held at this Tuesday’s SGA meeting. The latest Senate
vacancy has arisen as a result of Independent Senator John Hollan’s resignation, which was announced by Chancellor Adam Hickey at
last Tuesday’s SGA meeting. Hollan says he resigned because of overcommittal. “I had so many draws on my time that
some of my activities had to fall. SGA was one of them.”

Honor Council Changes Leadership
Through an election held Sunday afternoon, Junior Ann Hatfield was named Honor Council Chairman, and Charlotte Hildebrand was named Secretary
for the coming year. Hatfield ran for the position against two other candidates, Allen Marshall and Jay Hinton, while Hildebrand
ran unopposed. Votes were cast by all Honor Council members. Hatfield, who has served on the Honor Council since her
freshman year, replaces senior Phil Ewing, who served as last year’s Honor Council Chairman. “I am confident in Davidson’s commitment
to the honor code, and I look forward to my duties as chairman,” she says.

Phi Beta Kappa Scholar to Visit Thursday
Dr. Eric Chaisson, the author of the nation’s most widely used college astronomy textbook, Astronomy Today, will be speaking Thursday
evening on the origins of life and matter and the development of complexity in our universe. Director of the H.
Dudley Wright Center for Innovative Science Education at Tufts University, Chaisson has published several books and has earned the Phi
Beta Kappa Award in Science, the American Institute of Physics Award, and the 1995 Science Writing Award from AIP. Chaisson
will present his lecture, “Cosmic Evolution and Complexity in the Universe,” Thursday in the 900 Room at 7:30. He will
give a class/public lecture Thursday morning at 8:30 a.m. in the Big Screen Room, and will address the astronomy class
at 1:30 p.m. Friday about “The Fate of the Universe.” He is willing to talk with interested faculty and students
upon request.

NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1996

Students and faculty discuss the future of recycling on campus
By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
Assistant News Editor

The recycling effort at Davidson has had its ups and downs, according to the current Reachout Recycling Coordinators. But Meredith
Judy, one of three new coordinators appointed this semester, is “convinced that [campus recycling] is going to grow from here.”
Her optimism is due, she says, to the fact that “so many students are interested in environmental issues, and everyone
is becoming more focused and involved.”

If the results of the recent Earth Summit, held in late February, are any indication, the recycling organizers can afford
to make such predictions. The Summit drew a number of student and faculty attendees, including Bob Collins, Director of the
Physical Plant and Kurt Holmes, Director of Residence Life. Students in attendance included Recycling Coordinators Seth Clippard, Tom Guthrie, and
Judy, as well as SGA President Warren Buford and Reach Out Coordinator Catherine Turner. Organized by Helen Robinson, last year’s
Recycling Coordinator, the Summit was designed to provide an opportunity for direct discussion between students and faculty involved in Davidson’s
recycling efforts.

Of the meeting, Robinson says, “I thought it was very successful. It wasn’t all good news, but the people from
the Physical Plant let us know the logistics. We learned that we’d have to go in a different direction [in
terms of recycling] than we’d thought.”

“We discovered at the meeting,” says Judy, “that we actually weren’t making that much money [off of recycling].”Recyclable material] because
our recyclables are often contaminated.” Contamination might include the presence of non-recyclable material mixed in with recyclables, or improperly prepared
recyclable materials. For example, in order to earn money on recycled aluminum, all aluminum cans must be crushed. Likewise, all
cardboard must be flattened, or no money will be earned. As a result, explains Robinson, “we plan to head toward
a smaller and better-run recycling effort.” Next year the campus will recycle only four items: aluminum, plastic, paper, and cardboard.
The recycling committee’s focus will be on maintaining the quality of these recyclables, resulting in greater earnings. Only uncontaminated aluminum
and cardboard will be worth money. “Hopefully,” says Judy, “the money will eventually go back into recycling to improve the
program.” Also among the long-term goals discussed at the Summit is a reduction in the use of glass, which will
still not be recycled next year. Students and Patterson Court houses will be encouraged to use aluminum instead.

—PHI BETA KAPPA—

A research professor of physics, astronomy, and education, and The Davidsonian is always looking for new blood. Write for news,
arts, opinions, or sports. Call Catherine, James, Katie, or Will. -2148

Elected To Membership In-Course, 20 February 1996
William Stephen Aldridge III
Elizabeth Lynn Anderson
Sarah Elizabeth Brewer
Joseph William Buff
James Davidson Byassee
Letitia Marie Campbell
Caroline Elizabeth Carpenter
David Victor Christopherson
Eric Michael Collings
John Daniel Eckman
Scott Jacob Ellis
Stephen Delbert Feeley
Tracy Elizabeth French
Austin Donald Gerken, Jr.
Peter William Hallenbeck
Katherine Merritt Hash
Meredith Ellen Hayden
Wendy Jane Johnson
Jessica Marie Kahn
Nicholas C. Kallan
Anna Mary Amanda Kemp
Katherine Sterling McEntire
Thomas Carter Robertson
Christopher Sture Edwards
Andrew Craig McGregor
Cynthia Anne Marion
Bonell Marie Millar
Mary Laura Moretz
Stephanie Michelle Morgan
Richard Hugh Onkey
Christine Post Roberts
Margaret Blackwell Scott
Charles Tune Staples, Jr.
Jane Morrison Moore Stubbs
Kristina Zita Tihanyi
Scott Tonidandel
Peter Marshall Varney
Katherine Frances Voyer
Scarlet Lee Wynns
Shawn Renee Young

Elected To Membership 18 May 1995
Arul Baskaran
Elizabeth Jean McDonald
George Francis Weld III

Complimentary DEEP CONDITIONING SERVICES
Saturday, March 23
10am-2pm
Let us DE-STRESS your tresses!
Savvy Hair Salon
895-0404
Totally FREE, no obligation
Call for an appointment!
WE COULD ALL USE A LITTLE MORE SAVVY
Norman Crossing Shopping Center
I-77/Exit 28, Cornelius

SGA prepares to storm dorms
NARESH NAGELLA
Assistant News Editor

Students should expect to run into their SGA representatives a lot this week — the senators will be coming to
the dorms. It is all part of Dorm Storm 96, an SGA initiative that intends to help foster a more
direct and definite means of communication between the student body and the SGA. “An important factor about Dorm Storm is
how it is a means for writing a report for the use of other student organizations and the administration which
clearly outlines issues important to students,” says President Warren Buford. Senators will be assigned a specific dorm to “storm,” and
will talk with students about their concerns. Then they will write a report which will be reviewed by the Polling
and Response Committee of the SGA. That committee will then come up with a comprehensive report. “It should result in
an effective means of ensuring the student voice will be heard,” says Sophomore Senator Robert Knight. He adds, “I know
it will make sure I talk with people other than my friends allowing for a more complete student voice to
be heard.” After the week ends, the SGA will go over all the concerns raised by students and try to
incorporate as many of them as possible into their official agenda.
