_ OPINIONS: MONDAY, APRIL 1, 1996 +

Ike Bailey

Stepping out on faith

Romans 7: 14-21
“We know that the law is spiritual; but I am unspiritual, sold as a slave to sin. I do not understand what I do. For what I want to do I do not do, but what I hate I do. And if I do what I do not want to do, I agree that the law is good. As it is, it is no longer I myself who do it, but it is sin living in me.”

I can now admit, aloud, that I am a sinner. As I write this article, the doubts that persist in my mind try to overwhelm me, just as they have every time I’ve tried to take such a defining step in my life. How will people react? Will I change? How must I change? Am I strong enough? Will I become what I’ve always feared becoming, a hypocrite? ... But today, I step out on faith.

* Have you ever truly contemplated what it means to marry another? I have. And I realize that it is probably the most difficult transition an individual can make for another in their life. Yet, the beauty of such a transition is that once it is truly made, the rewards and benefits will be quite beautiful.

* Have you ever truly contemplated what it means to be a fluent speaker? I have. And I realize that for a stutterer who has been non-fluent for most of his life, that transition is ten times more difficult than the transition needed for marriage. Yet, the beauty of such a transition is that once it is truly complete, the rewards and benefits will be ten times as beautiful.

* Have you ever truly contemplated what it means to turn your life over to God? I have. And I realize that for a person who has been an extremely fearful sinner for all of his life, the difficulty of that transition is immeasurable! Yet, the beauty of it is when you make that transition, the rewards and the benefits you can receive in such a state are also immeasurable.

I have always had difficulty dealing with religion. I constantly stand at a crossroads: Should I go out on faith and establish a closer relationship with God? Or should I continue to lead a fairly clean life, but one that has always been less than fulfilling? And what I have recently discovered, with the help of some very special people, is we don’t always need what we want. But we always need what we need. And I have needed this step for quite some time.

I’ve learned that fear begins where faith ends. Because the moment you step out on faith is precisely the moment you lose control and place it in your God’s hands. For most people, a lack of control is fearful because we no longer control our fate. But do we really want to? We are beings that have knowledge about lots of things, but not enough knowledge to know everything. Yet, God is of infinite wisdom and power. How logical, then, is it for us to control our own fate when our wisdom is obviously limited? How silly are we, how silly am I, when I don’t relinquish control to someone, some spirit, who already has complete control and knowledge of everything?

I have been trying to live a complete life with inadequate means. So, I must have faith that he is within me and will guide me with his infinite knowledge. Though this is the only step I must take, it is the most difficult one I can make.

* The biggest obstacle for a couple to overcome in order to have a fulfilled marriage is precisely the one ingredient that is absolutely necessary to make that marriage complete: faith in each other’s love so that they both will forsake all others and do everything to make the other complete.

* The biggest obstacle for a stutterer to overcome on a journey towards fluency is the one ingredient that is absolutely necessary in the life of all fluent speakers: faith that when he opens his mouth he will speak fluently because all of the tools and capabilities are there, just as they are in fluent speakers.

* And the biggest obstacle for a sinner to overcome in establishing faith in God is fear. Because there is no room for fear in faith.

I am far from perfect and will always be, but I know my completeness lies not in me, but in Him. So my one goal in life is to become perfect, in him, through faith. A day before he was shot and killed, Martin Luther King, Jr. proclaimed that he didn’t fear death because he had reached his mountaintop. Today, I start the journey to reach mine.

(The above is a recent article written in the Rainbow Revue.)

I attended a minority retreat this past weekend and learned a valuable lesson: “You can learn something from anybody; you can even learn how not to be a fool from a fool.” The formal education offered at Davidson College is truly invaluable and should never be taken for granted. Yet, if we allow ourselves to focus solely on academic pursuits that are offered inside the classroom we will never become fully educated. If we are willing to put fear and complacency aside, learning from the experiences, views and struggles of others can prove to be a great supplement to our formal education.

I sincerely believe that some real solutions for making minorities feel more comfortable at Davidson lay somewhere in the white portion of the student body. And I also believe that white students can find the strength to endure some of their struggles in the minority portion. The college can stage awareness and cultural diversity forums, events and discussions on a weekly basis, yet none of this will be effective without open and honest discussion from a diverse group of students. And I have found that the most difficult things to say are usually the most valuable to hear, no matter how scary and how vulnerable we may feel when saying them.

The members of the BSC, in an effort to encourage cultural diversity and understanding, publish a bi-weekly newsletter called the Rainbow Review. The newsletter offers challenging and thought-provoking commentary on difficult issues.and topics. If you enjoy reading and discussing issues that are important to us all, call Joy Sparks at -6271 or Ike Bailey at -2241 (P.O. Box 2656) to get your name added to the mailing list. Diverse opinions and points of view are always welcomed and supported.

Sex in a Festering Society

Last week, I went to a concert at Blumenthal Performing Arts Center and saw a small group of picketers protesting "Angels In America." I have neither read nor seen the play, and so I cannot make a judgment about whether or not it is indeed obscene. The play doesn’t sound particularly obscene, though, and the whole protest seemed a little silly more than anything. I can’t say that the protesters bothered me. Even if they’re wrong, they’re practicing their Constitutional right to assemble peacefully, and they’re taking an interest in their community, which is more than could be said for most of us.

After the show, I got a little bit lost in a rough part of town, and it was there that I became bothered. As I passed by porn shop and strip bar after porn shop and strip bar, I was bothered that I didn’t see people protesting in the places where there really is indecent exposure. According to the FBI, pornography in America is a three billion dollar per year industry. This is a sick, shocking statistic, and it should make us, as citizens, mad as hell and sick at ourselves as a nation. We live in a festering society, obsessed with sex. We have perverted a beautiful thing, and a glance at sex-crime statistics will tell you that we are suffering for it.

Just for experiment’s sake, go to the computer center, enter Netscape, and run an internet search combining any two of the following words: women, pictures, nude, naked, sex, hot, girls, or chicks. You will get dozens of URLs leading to pictures of nudity and things which I will not discuss here. Now, I’m not defending the recently-passed internet bill, because it is so thoroughly unconstitutional that when it is overturned, it will make it almost impossible to pass a more reasonable bill—such as one that requires “adult” material to be encoded so that only adults with decoding software can receive it.

As educated citizens, we must take a stand against hard-core pornography. People are making three billion dollars a year off of rape, violence, bestiality, and child molestation. I’m sure that I sound like an extremist, and that’s because I am. It is absolutely reprehensible that our country spends this much money on an industry based on exploitation and degradation. There is no logical reason that we should tolerate this.

Now, some people will say that the First Amendment protects the right to express oneself in such a manner. This, however, cannot have been the intention of our nation’s founders. The First Amendment is about liberty, not licentiousness. It’s about protecting the right to express oneself, not protecting the right to rape and murder. Many pornographic films depict rape. As far as murder is concerned, there are over 300,000 children in the United States currently involved in child pornography. They are typically kidnapped and used for the production of videos as well as “recreational” use by people who pass them around well-concealed white slavery rings. The children are used until they grow too old, lose their looks, or become an arrest-risk to the pornographers, at which time they are typically killed.

According to the Supreme Court, child pornography is illegal to buy or sell, but in most states it is not illegal to possess, which robs the police and the FBI of their power to trace the material back to its source, since it is very difficult to catch people in the act of selling or buying the material. Some people will say, “Sure, child pornography’s wrong. But the women who are in adult porn are in it of their own volition. Some of them even enjoy it. They have a right to make money how they want to.”

This argument is fallacious. I doubt that the life ambition of many women is to become a porn star, but even if it is, that doesn’t mean that we, as a nation, should encourage this impulse. Porn stars’ looks are vital to their employment, and almost all of them have to get breast implants to keep working. Many also get hooked on cocaine because it allows them to prolong the sexual act. They get trapped in a vicious, self-destructive circle, unable to quit the industry because they need to support their drug habits and unable to quit using drugs because they have to stay in the industry. They are abused by profiteers until they have no feeling of self-worth or sense of dignity.

The press rarely reports these facts, and so most people are ignorant of them. It is the responsibility of the government to protect its citizens. This includes protecting them from entering into a lifestyle that will destroy them and has no positive effect on society. Now, some people will tell you that even if you were to ban hard-core pornography outright, it will still continue. They are right. We cannot stop evil, but we can help individuals. We cannot destroy hard-core pornography, but we can greatly decrease the amount of it produced, thereby helping countless victims. The human soul is eternal, and positively affecting a great number of them is the single most important reason for a ban on hard-core porn.

So why, you may ask, what can I do? Well, you can vote. With the current interpretation of the Constitution, a national ban on pornography would be basically unconstitutional without an anti-porn amendment, which would never pass in today’s political climate. You can, however, vote for local bans. And if you’re a Christian, you can pray. Even if an outright ban is impossible, prayer will have more positive effects than any legislation. Where we are weak, God is strong. Pray for the victims of pornography. Pray for the society which protects the industry, allows it to flourish, and receives in itself the destructive effects of its own stupidity, abuse of freedom, and injustice.

I am writing because there’s something very wrong, I care, and there’s something that we can do about it. Give a damn and live out your convictions. There is no excuse for apathy. Period.