Che Davidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1996

VOLUME 88, NUMBER 14

Construction will most likely move graduation

By Mary Clark Jalonick
Executive Editor

According to Registrar and graduation planner Polly Griffin, the college “plan[s] to break ground on the Life Sciences Building during early Spring [1997], so it can be open for classes by fall 1998.”

This means that the school will most likely not hold graduation in the shaded area in front of Dana Science Building, as it has every year in the recent past. This ground breaking is dependent upon the college reaching a certain percentage of its goal of $12 million for the project. Griffin says, “We think that it is likely [that we will realize that goal in time to break ground.]”

At one point this goal seemed far-reaching, but a $2 million donation from Frances and Lenox Baker earlier this semester helped the project move forward faster than expected.

Seniors Charlotte Seigler and Brian Woodward will sit on the Commencement Planning Committee as co-chairs of the senior class committee. Seigler says, “Their goal is not to disrupt our graduation, but if they don't break ground before graduation then they can’t reach their goal of having the building open by fall of 1998.”

Griffin says, “If we begin construction in early Spring, we will adjust the location of the graduation ceremony to another site on the front campus. Commencement over the years has been on at least three other sites in front of Chambers, and that history will be useful in our planning.”

She and other administrators have already taken walking tours of campus to look at prospective graduation sites. As of now, Griffin says that administrators have a few ideas in mind. She cites the areas in front of Cunningham and near the well as two that “come to mind right away.”

She says they are looking for a location where 5,000 people can sit in the shade. “There is a lot of land out there,” she says. “We have a lot of good options.”

Decking the halls for Christmas a la Davidson.

By Ann Culp
Staff Writer

Snowflakes hanging from the fluorescent lights, freshman halls prepared for Christmas.

Cutting and pasting with “Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer” playing reduced many students of higher learning to first grade punch parties.

Class of ‘00 Beth Valera said, “Hall decorating is fun because you’re using your mind and creativity and for just a few hours you’re a child again.”

“And it’s much more fun than flickerball,” said Melanie Dodd, class of ‘00.

“Everyone was together into the wee hours of the morning gluing, glittering, and cutting. Then we all went out for pizza when it was done.”

Although it was difficult to cut out the 105th star, the spirit of the holidays was evident in any freshman hall.

The halls were judged by Professor John Swallow and others on Sunday night. The winners will be announced on Monday.

With bows of holly?

Above, Freshman Katie Miltich decorates her door, spreading holiday cheer throughout First Richardson. Right, Freshmen twins Jenny and Soosan Calhoun cut out Christmas decorations together.

Photos by Anna Judy

Transcripts to list labs

By Stephen Cefalu
Staff Writer

A recommendation that the laboratory components of science department courses be listed separately on academic transcripts was put forth at a meeting of the Educational Policy Committee last Tuesday.

Registrar Polly Griffin, the EPC member chiefly responsible for the proposal, says the separate listing of labs is part of a broader effort to provide more detailed academic reports and student transcripts.

Griffin says the issue is one she has discussed with both science department faculty members and members of the Student Government Association’s Council on Academic Affairs.

Set for implementation in the fall of 1997, the standard separate listing for science department course labs will read as follows: “LA Laboratory—ungraded.”

Griffin notes that the registration procedure for science courses with labs will remain unchanged as will denotation of the student’s overall course grade on the transcript.

Says Griffin, “We’ve received several calls from various graduate schools, and believe that the new listing change will ultimately lend them more descriptive student transcripts.”

According to Chemistry Department Chair, Dr. Felix Carroll, “Listing labs separately on department enrollment reports will provide more clarity in instances where one professor teaches the lecture component of the course, and another the lab.”

Carroll predicts the lab listing change will make for an easier evaluation of Davidson transcripts by employers, as well as graduate and professional schools.