14 MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1996 SPORTS DAVIDSONIAN

Backcourt bonanza
By Dante Morz
Copy Editor

Ali Ton has stepped up in a big way so far this season. Replacing departed four-year starter Chris Alpert, the
6-0 point guard has already accumulated career highs in points and assists, and hit a game-winning three-pointer. Ton collected eight
points against Mississippi and drilled the bomb with 57 seconds left to lead the Wildcats to the 59-56 victory. Ton
dished out eleven assists in the SMU loss and concluded his memorable week with a seven-point, eight-assist performance Saturday vs.
Sewanee.

Despite the impressive statistics, Ton remains hesitant about his play. “On paper, sure it looks good, but in reality, it
is not that good. I made stupid mistakes in the SMU game which I think cost us the game,” Ton
said. “I played solid, but I need to cut out the sloppy play and lead the team to victories.”

One reason for Ton’s recent success is his increasing role on the offensive end. In his freshman campaign, Ton showed
flashes of ball-handling, passing, and defensive brilliance, but rarely looked to take the shot. This season, he is pulling the
trigger on the open shot - and finishing off plays. “I like the fact that Ali is taking the shot,”
said coach Bob McKillop. “He has a nice offensive game and I hope he continues to utilize it.”

McKillop has recently used the backcourt of Ton and Billy Armstrong. While it leaves the Wildcats a little undersized (Armstrong
is 6-2), McKillop likes the combination because it gives the Wildcats more quickness, ball-handling ability, and defensive pressure on the
opponents’ guards.

Armstrong, like Ton, has sparkled recently. Against Sewanee, the junior set career highs in both points (eight) and assists (seven).
Senior Jay Arial, a defensive end for the Wildcat football team this fall, has earned a permanent spot on the
roster. Seeing his first collegiate action against Sewanee, Arial grabbed a rebound and hit one of two free throws. “I
haven’t played organized basketball in five years so I was definitely nervous out there, and I know I looked nervous,”
he said. “But I am fired up. It is a real privilege to be on this team.”

Freshman forward Stephen Marshall returned to practice this week. Marshall suffered from sickness during the early part of the season,
but hopes to return for the Dec. 21 game at New Hampshire.

Pesky D from page 13

first half. “I think defensively, we were surprised with how well they pressured us with the ball and without the
ball. I give them credit. I think they did a great job and I wish them well.”

The results were not nearly so positive against SMU though, as the Mustangs held a stagnant Davidson offense to 18
first half points and thwarted a late comeback bid for the 17-point win. The victory snapped a 14-game road losing
streak for SMU (3-1) and ended the Wildcats’ 13-contest winning stint in Belk. “We were not very focused tonight and
just not in sync,” said McKillop. “SMU showed great quickness, great poise, and great execution. No team this year, including
Wake Forest, ran their offense as effectively against our defense as they did in the first half.”

The Mustangs shot 52% from the field in the decisive half and held Davidson to 30%, building a 31-18 intermission
advantage. Donnelly scored 14 to lead four Wildcats in double figures, while Ton dished out a career high 11 assists.
Ton continued his productive play on Saturday against Sewanee, posting seven points and eight assists in the 40-point rout over
the Tigers. “I’m thrilled with our point guards,” said McKillop. “Ali and Billy, they had a 15 to 3 assist
to turnover ratio. I’m thrilled with the 38% shooting our opponent had. That was one of our goals coming in
- to hold them under 40. And our point distribution was excellent. We got the right guys the shots.”

Ewodo paced the balanced scoring with 24 points. Holmes added 16, Kosmalski 15, and Donnelly 12. Burns and Jeff Bergmann
each chipped in 7 points off the bench.

The Wildcats dashed to a 30-point halftime lead against Lynchburg on Thanksgiving Eve en route to another easy win. Davidson
converted 29 Hornet turnovers into 35 points and shot 59% from the floor. Ewodo logged a career high 26 points,
Holmes had a career high 18, and Kosmalski (14, team-high 8 rebounds) and Donnelly (12) also cracked double figures.

Dan Dearing contributed to this report from Winston-Salem.

Mary Shell Brosche

The Anderson, S.C., native began swimming competitively when she was six, but swimming was not the only sport in which
she found success. She has competed in gymnastics, diving, softball, basketball, track, and cross country. In high school, she placed
second in the state cross country championships (18:05), 2nd in the 800 (2:24), 3rd in the mile (5:25), and ran
on a 2nd place 4x400 relay team (1:03 split). However, her accomplishments in the pool probably surpass her track and
field feats. Brosche made her first Junior National cut at 13. Since then...That time, she has qualified in an amazing
seven different events: the 50 free, 100 free, 100 fly, 100 back, 200 back, 200 IM, and 400 IM. She
says her best events are the 200 back, 200 IM, and 400 IM. “I’d like to win an event or
two at Southern States, and do well for the team,” Brosche said. “It’s not fun swimming if you’re all by
yourself.” —WILL BRADSHAW

Scott Harper
The 6’5” Harper hails from Richmond, Va., where he has been swimming since he was eleven. Nicknamed “The Big Load”
by teammates, he has made quite a splash thus far in the season. Head coach Rich DeSelm has used Harper
in a variety of races, and each meet he has been successful. “Swimming here is so much more exciting than
swimming at home,” Harper said. “I didn’t swim for a high school, and everybody just did their own thing. But
here, everybody is up and cheering. It’s awesome, and it really fires me up. I love it.” Harper qualified for
Junior Nationals for the first time last year, competing in the 100 fly and 200 breast. He also has some
big goals for his time at Davidson. “I want to make it to the NCAA championships before I graduate,” he
said. —W.B.

Keith Nelson
The Waterville, Ohio, native helped lead his Saint Francis de Sales swim squad to the Ohio state championship last season.
“It was something my teammates and I had always hoped for. It was very fulfilling and satisfying when it happened,”
Nelson said. He has swum year-round since he was ten and played water polo as well. Last season he competed
at Junior Nationals in the 100 butterfly. Nelson hopes to help the team to a Southern States title this season
and wants to see the program continue to improve. He also has noticed a difference between high school and college
swimming. “It’s more intense on a day-to-day basis, which makes it more fun. The meets are more fun. It’s neat
traveling and swimming against people I’ve never swum against before,” he said. —W.B.

Zannah Bozzone
Bozzone hails from Signal Mountain, Tenn., where she attended Girls’ Preparatory High School. She started swimming at nine, thinking that
she would keep soccer as her main priority. But swimming soon took over her time, and she had quit playing
soccer by the time she was 12. She made her first Junior National cut last year in the 200 back,
and she missed the cut in the 100 back by .11 seconds. However, the most exciting meet she competed in
before coming to Davidson was her Zone meet last season. “It was the first time I ever experienced a big
team atmosphere. It means a lot more swimming for a team than for yourself,” she said. “That was more exciting
to me than Juniors. I want to keep on improving, to keep on enjoying it and working hard. I don’t
want to start slacking off, and I want the team to be as close as we are. And we definitely
want to win Southern States every year.” —W.B.

More Fresh Faces next semester

Women’s hoops: The Weeks Ahead

Dec. 19 vs. Manhattan (7:30)
Conference: MAAC
1995-96 record: 19-11
Last meeting: first meeting
Player to watch: Wanda Camps (5-7, Jr., G, 9.6 ppg, 5.7 apg)
Filar on the Jaspers: “Manhattan will be a tough game. They went to the NCAA tournament last year and only
lost one big scorer. So it will be a challenge.”

Dec. 30 @ Winthrop (7:00)
Conference: Big South
1995-96 record: 13-15
Players to watch: Jennifer Churchill (6-3, So., C, 13.8 ppg, 7.5 rpg), Anne Cox (6-0, Jr., G/F, 11.3 ppg)
Filar on the Lady Eagles: “They were the runner-up in the Big South last year and all their starters are
returning. They have a very solid team.”

Jan. 6 @ College of Charleston (7:00)
Conference: Trans American Athletic
1995-96 record: 6-21
Last meeting: first meeting
Filar on the Lady Cougars: “This will be a good matchup. They are a lot better than their record shows.”

Jan. 11 @ Western Carolina (2:00)
1995-96 record: 9-18, 4-10
Preseason SC ranking: 8th (coaches), 8th (media)
Series: 10-2 Western Carolina
Last meeting: DC, 69-60
Player to watch: Karen Mason (15.1 PPG)

January 13 @ App. St. (7:00)
1995-96 record: 24-6 (14-0 SC)
Preseason SC ranking: 2nd (coaches), 1st (media)
Last meeting: App. St., 83-74 (SC semis)
Players to watch: Andreia Hinton (15.5 ppg), Melissa Davis (12.4 PPG)

January 16 vs. Maryland Baltimore County (7:30)
Conference: Big South
1995-96 Record: 12-15
Last meeting: UMBC, 59-54

January 18 vs. UT-Chattanooga (7:30)
1995-96 record: 12-15 (6-8 SC)
Preseason SC ranking: 5th (coaches), 6th (media)
Last meeting: DC, 80-51 (SC Quarters)
Player to watch: Stacey Brown (14.0 PPG)

Filar on the upcoming games: “I am really excited about our games over the break, and I’m especially anxious to
start our conference schedule. It’s really important for us to get off to a good start.”

*All individual statistics are from last year. Italics indicate conference games.

COMPILED BY CLAYTON SCHLOSS
