4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 1, 1996

Students come together to Take Back the Night

By CATHERINE ANDERSON
Staff Writer

Tuesday evening, hundreds of students and faculty gathered in the 900 Room to hear several women's tales of sexual assault and rape at the seventh annual Take Back the Night. Sponsored by the Women’s Issues Committee as a part of Women’s Month, the event is designed to empower women to deal with past experiences and put them behind them to overcome sexual oppression.

The program parlayed staggering statistics of rapes on college campuses: 10-30% of college women are victims of rape, the chances that a woman will be raped in her lifetime is one in four, and one in three women will be the target of an actual or attempted rape. Several women came to the front and communicated their stories in various ways, from direct accounts to poetry readings to dramatic presentations.

“I think it was the most powerful Take Back the Night we’ve had thus far,” says Health Educator Georgia Ringle. “It was a wonderful mix of true stories, poetry, performance art and music. I think it really reached out to the audience, and they felt very comforted and reassured by the numbers coming forward. I was greatly moved and personally proud of all who participated. I think it shows how strong these women are.”

Joselyn Schultz, chairperson of the Women’s Issues Committee, agrees. “I was really happy with it. There was a fantastic attendance, and a real push toward a positive feeling. There was definitely more uniting with the crowd and a feeling that we can do something, taking from the strength and courage of the people on stage.”

Junior Kate Caputo shared her experience with sexual assault and hoped to leave the audience with a specific message: “If someone ever forces you to do something, although it’s not rape, it’s sexual assault and it’s wrong.”

Junior Elyse Weitman spoke as well. “I was in absolute awe,” she says, “with the number of guys who were there. It means so much to see them there supporting us.” Of the night Weitman says, “It was one of the best feelings I’ve had about something that felt so bad for so long.”

“I’m very proud of the emergence of a voice on campus that makes of a sad cry, a silent scream, and of an unsaid lament, a fierce denunciation of the unspeakable violations of human dignity,” says Spanish Professor Magdalena Maiz-Pena. “At Take Back the Night, Davidson students reclaimed the bodies and names of the victims, yelling ‘Basta’ (it’s enough) to the fear, silence and loneliness they had.”

Despite weeks of uncooperative weather which have delayed construction, graduating seniors will still be able to attend the dedication ceremony for the college’s Habitat house. They’ll just be doing it in the fall when they return for Homecoming instead of this spring before Commencement. Organizers now concede that construction will not be completed in time for a dedication this year. Several members of the community have been lined up to oversee construction during the summer.so that faculty, staff, and students who will be in the area can still come out to work. Also, incoming freshmen participating in the Odyssey, which will be going on throughout the summer, will do construction as part of their service. And there is plenty more activity planned this semester. The energy level will increase April 15 to 19 during a week-long “Building Blitz.” There will be construction at the site every day in an all-out effort by campus volunteers, and a group of seven high school students from Boston will also help. Fundraising has not been hampered by the weather. Responses to a phone-a-thon last week were very positive, with “Hammerhead” volunteers raising more than $3,000. If you know of anyone who would like to donate materials or services for the house, please call Dr. John Wertheimer (-2582). Organizations that wish to have a group workday at the site should call Katherine Cooke (-2298). — Saralyn J. Damanti for Wildcat Habitat

If you have any questions, complaints, or news tips then please write the editors at Davidsonian@Davidson.edu

Reach Out offers many opportunities for students
By Betu Bacon

All salons are not created equal. Ours was created with YOU in mind. We provide individualized application through skill and product. We carry: Aveda, Paul Mitchell, Senscience, Biolage, Nexxus.

704/895-0404
Norman Crossing Shopping Center
I-77, Exit 28--Cornelius, NC

Staff Writer

Many students participate in the numerous community service options that Davidson provides. Catherine Turner, community service coordinator, says, “So many students are involved, and that’s something that other schools want to emulate.” Reach Out is instrumental in providing service opportunities for Davidson students. Reach Out President Katie Brasfield says, “Reach Out is the umbrella student organization for Davidson College’s 22 student-run service programs.” The program’s areas include homelessness, housing, education and tutoring, service trips, work with senior citizens, programs for children, recycling, health-related programs, and hunger awareness.

Reach Out is sponsoring a barbecue dinner at the Ada Jenkins Community Center on National Youth Service Day, April 23. A spring cleaning project at the Senior Nutrition Center precedes the dinner, and Habitat for Humanity will build that day. Reach Out Vice-President Bill Abrams says, “We are joining millions of adults and young people nationwide in the celebration of the power and vitality of youth in our communities.”

Every Thursday Reach Out plans a CROP lunch in the 900 Room from 11:30-1:15 in order to promote issues of hunger. Contributions received go to organizations that help hunger worldwide and locally. Habitat builds every Thursday afternoon and all day each Saturday. April 15-19, they will be building every day.

Patterson Court also organizes service projects. The Easter egg hunt on Sunday, March 31 was a Patterson Court sponsored activity. The court will be sponsoring a “Crush” fundraiser on April 13-14. Patterson Court will participate in the Earth Day celebration on April 22. Brasfield says, “Community service is a great way to get involved with other Davidson students as well as the community. It provides an outlet for people to get involved in relationships beyond the court and classroom.”

Turner stresses the link between community service, class, and life. She urges volunteers to “look deeper into things instead of doing them and leaving them behind. Educated people can cut themselves short if they don’t look for the cause of the problem.” She says, “Making service an integral part of your life is what makes it really meaningful.”