RTS & LIVING MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1996

From Rodeo to Rhapsody

Davidson College Symphony Orchestra joins with Chamber Singers to delight audience

By JENNIFER CARLSON
Guest Writer

Thursday, November 21, The Davidson College Symphony Orchestra performed their 1996 Fall Concert in Love Auditorium. Conducted by Richard Prior, DCSO masterfully executed four works: Paul Creston’s Fantasy for Trombone and Orchestra, Op. 42, Igor Stravinsky’s Symphony of Psalms, Aaron Copland’s “Hoe-Down” from Rodeo, and George Gershwin’s Rhapsody in Blue.

Applause from the large audience coupled with the stomping of feet from DCSO members warmly welcomed Prior to the podium. Prior in turn introduced senior Steven Duncan, the featured trombone soloist in the performance of the first piece of the evening, “Creston’s Fantasy.” Creston composed this work in three sections, the first of which is fast-tempoed and rhythmic. The orchestra thus opened with an initial underlying rhythm while Duncan commanded a performance of great technical skill. During the slower middle section, the soloist seemed to sustain notes effortlessly, creating a beautiful melody which captivated the audience. The “Fantasy” concluded with fast, complex rhythms and melodies introduced in the opening. Duncan maintained remarkable endurance through the final measure, continuously distinguishing his notes and rhythmic pattern from those of the orchestra. For Prior and the entire orchestra, the “Fantasy” was without a doubt a brilliant performance. For Duncan, moreover, it proved to be a successful and appropriate dedication to a friend of his who had recently passed away.

The performance of the second piece, Stravinsky’s Symphony of Psalms, combined the talents of the Davidson College Chamber Singers with those of the Symphony Orchestra. The Chamber Singers, directed by Donna M. Di Grazia, enveloped the solemn yet peaceful mood of the work by singing the Latin texts of three Psalms. The orchestra complemented the singing with their own musical expressions. Of particular interest were the flute and oboe sections which performed a pleasing duet during the first Psalm. The final movement, however, best exemplified the interaction of the orchestra and Chamber Singers. While the instrumentalists performed various rhythmic sections, the Singers echoed with celebratory “Alleluias” of Psalm 150, thus ending the first half of the evening.

Spirited red bandannas tied to the cellos and basses set the mood for the animated “Hoe-Down” which began the second half. DCSO’s performance of Copland’s famous final episode from the ballet Rodeo proved to be an uplifting treat for the whole audience. A variety of percussion instruments, including a wood block, bass drum, and cymbals, aided in vibrant rhythmic explosions that had listeners tapping their feet. By the end of the performance, one couldn’t help but hum the square-dance melodies evoked in the celebrated work (and at the same time be reminded of those American “Beef” commercials).

The evening concluded with an exceptional performance of Gershwin’s Rhapsody in Blue. This work also featured the talents of a solo artist, Davidson’s Cynthia Lawing, on piano. At Prior’s cue, clarinetist Jill Williams played the memorable opening notes of this piece. ShortlyThereafter, the orchestra joined in and Lawing attacked the keyboard. "Rhapsody in Blue" incorporates several rhythmic patterns, demanding the utmost control and persistence of the pianist. Lawing demonstrated such ability with her incredible technical skill and careful focus on dynamics. Moreover, accurate pedaling and phrasing enabled Lawing to successfully command her playing while the orchestra sounded its own rhythms. With jazzy interludes from the wind and brass sections, enthusiastic percussion responses, and superb piano playing, DCSO and Lawing achieved a highly estimable performance of an American classic. The Davidson College Symphony Orchestra will perform next on December 11 with organist Jane Cain in Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Congratulations to Richard Prior and all DCSO members for a truly successful Fall 1996 Concert.

What happened beyond

Poet Jane Mead Reads in the 900 Room
By GEORGIE SCHIMMEL
Guest Writer

Jane Mead, poet-in-residence at Wake Forest, read from her poems Friday evening in the 900 Room to a small, informal audience. Among other accolades, Mead has received the 1995 Kathryn A. Morton Prize in Poetry, given by Philip Levine, for her book "The Lord and General Din of the World." Philip Levine wrote that the poet’s language does not creep across the page to entertain; rather “it prefers to leap out of its own darkness with the suddenness of something wild and catch us by the throat.” But upon hearing Mead speak, it became obvious that the matter was more about her voice: her voice, at once intimate and subtly sonorous, seemed also far-off, musically distant, and quiet, perhaps too quiet for those seated in the back rows. Her cadences were similarly unsettling and unfamiliar. Mead’s lines sounded occasionally fluid and voluble, and occasionally as though each individual word within the phrase were itself an urgent utterance. Were ... itself ... an ... urgent ... utterance.

The book is structured somewhat like a triptych, with a sort of introductory poem or proem setting the tone for the three sections following, all of which concern the poet’s drug rehabilitation, father, home, etc. The sections range in tone dramatically. The first can be comprised by one word: interrogating. Nearly every other poem has the word "To" in its title. It seems in the first section, as Levine remarks in his introduction to the book, that the poet is asking the fundamental question of whether we should live or not. The poems in the first section nearly prickle over with slings and arrows, outrageously.

In the second section, the poems begin to assert themselves over their events, in a manner of speaking. The poems are less "to" than they are "for." Similarly, the vast question taken up by the first section begins here to find its answer: we should live, for the detail, for the music in our own conditions. The third section is not jubilant. But it is as jubilant as the situation of these poems will allow. The poet’s voice becomes unmuddied and positive, in the ef.

See Poet on page 13