THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1996

C’est La Vie

Students return from French program in Tours, France

By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
Assistant News Editor

For over 30 years, interested students have participated in Davidson’s yearlong program of study in Montpellier, France.

However, this fall 12 students departed for France as pioneers, taking part in a completely transformed French study abroad program.

Six of these participants have just returned from the program’s new location in Tours, France. Now featuring options for fall or spring semester study, as well as the traditional yearlong stay, the program allows for greater scheduling flexibility.

Seven participants opted to study in France for a single semester while five elected to remain there throughout the second semester. Only one participant in the program did not attend Davidson.

Alan Singerman, Professor of French, acted as Resident Director of the trip. He traveled with the students to Paris, where the group stayed for three weeks.

During this time, students spent three hours a day in intensive language instruction and explored the city, visiting museums and other historical and cultural attractions.

Travel during the last few weeks of the program was made difficult by worker strikes which paralyzed many industries. There was virtually no transportation and no mail delivery, explains McGehee. Because many of the university students went on strike, some participants in the yearlong program were unable to attend classes.

Lulu Srinivasan, an economics major, took intensive French language courses at Davidson for one and a half years before participating in the program last fall. Of her semester abroad, she says, “the best part of the Davidson program was the three weeks in Paris because I experienced more of French culture than I ever could on my own.”

After the initial segment in Paris, the group moved onto Tours, where students lived with French families and attended classes in language, literature, history, art history, and civilization at the Institut de Touraine.

“I met friends from all over the world,” says J.C. Carlson, “which I found to be a unique aspect of studying at the Institut.”

Despite a full course load, Molly McGehee wasn’t overwhelmed by the work.

“The most challenging thing was that we had to speak French 24 hours a day,” she says.

Sophomore Brad Preston broadcasts to the masses from Basement Belk as a WALT DJ.

Josh Glazer

WALT

from page 1

DJ choice constitutes much of what is broadcast. Hooff says that in the future, as WALT appears on more music lists, the station will receive greater numbers of new releases from record labels.

WALT’s executive committee makes an effort to provide daily news, all of which must be approved by WALT’s news director before being broadcast.

Other features include special programming which can be heard on Sundays and on weekday evenings. “We want to provide a segment of programming that is all one genre or one basic theme,” says Foy. Such programs include segments which offer strictly 80s tunes, jazz, or women’s rock.

Davidson’s first serious movement to create a campus radio station in the 70s resulted in WDAV. WDAV “was exactly what college radio should be” says Foy. However, due to on-air acts of student impropriety, the station gave restrictions on broadcast content which encroached upon students’ air time. Soon, the station was abandoned, and its studio was vandalized by angry students.

The continued push for student radio resulted in the creation of new stations on and off throughout the 80s. Funding and administrative approval was difficult to secure due to the unpleasant history of student stations. Eventually, however, the existence of a true student-run radio station seemed increasingly possible. Foy says that Dean of Students Thomas Shandley “encouraged efforts to start things up again.”

Mike Guggenheimer has been a WALT DJ since the station first took to the air last semester. In keeping with WALT’s stated goals, he says, “I’m a DJ because I love music, and I have a wide range of musical interests. I like to play stuff people may not have heard before.”

Students pose in front of the ruins of an old chateau in Dordogne, France.

Catherine Anderson

Jen Rawlings found that her language skills improved significantly through daily interaction with her French host family. “They wouldn’t let me speak English at all,” she says.

“At first it was difficult,” she says of life with her hosts, “because I was trying to be perfect. But you just have to be yourself... it’s not as easy as it sounds.”

During the weekends, participants explored France and surrounding countries. Between excursions organized by the Davidson program and individual opportunities, students ventured to many different places. They were able to travel to such sites as the prehistoric caves of Dordogne, countless chateaus, Venice, Florence, Amsterdam, and Corsica.

Attention Sophomores

Applications are now being distributed for the Edward Crosland Stuart Scholarship Program. Stuart Scholars receive grants of $10,000 for the junior year, renewable for the senior year, plus funding for an internship during the summer between the junior and senior years.

Pick up your application from Ms. Brenda King in Chambers 111. Completed applications are due back in the office no later than Monday, February 9, 1996.

BLACK MAN RISING

A Powerful Play About Hope and Challenge!
A New Play by James H. Chapmyn

As part of a celebration of African American History month, "Black Man Rising" will be performed Feb. 10 in the 900 Room at 7:00. Dinner theater with discussion to follow. Sponsored by the College Union, BSC, and the Dean of Students Office. Tickets are $4.00 and will be on sale in the Union ticket office Monday-Friday, 2:00-5:00. Only 100 places available.