THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1996

The skyscrapers of Shibam, a city in Yemen.

National Geographic Yemen program approved
By RANDY HARTWELL
News Editor

Students looking for an unusual and exciting study abroad option may find it in the Davidson in Yemen program, which
was approved by vote of the faculty last week and will begin its inaugural journey next July. To be offered
in the summers of odd-numbered years, the six-week program will offer 100 classroom hours of intensive study in Arabic, as
well as a Middle Eastern political science or history course, for which participants will earn two course credits.

On the southern tip of the Arabian peninsula, Yemen is a country the New York Times has called “the land
of the Queen of Sheba and the ancient Incense Route.” Its capital, Sanaa, is where the program will be based.
History professor Johnathan Berkey, who conceived the program with political science professor Ken Menkhaus, says he is “delighted” about faculty
approval of the program. After noting genuine student interest in the study of the Middle East upon his arrival to
Davidson in 1993, Berkey says he “started looking about for a Davidson program somewhere in the Arabic-speaking world.”

A year ago, Berkey met Sabri Saleem, director of the Yemen Language Center, touted in its brochures as “the only
language center in Yemen devoted exclusively to teaching Arabic as a foreign language.” “[Saleem] was quite organized, efficient, and impressive,”
Berkey says. “He managed to put together a package that would involve instruction in Arabic, lectures, discussions, and field trips...
for a very reasonable figure, and his institute came highly recommended.”

Menkhaus, who will be leading the first trip, says Davidson in Yemen will offer distinct advantages over study in other
countries: “Not many people get to see this part of the world,” he says. Sanaa differs from tourist-filled Cairo, Menkhaus
says, in that “[students] are going to be special—they’ll have direct access to the Yemeni people.”

Berkey says “the heart of the program is the language,” and students will have the option of continuing Arabic study
on return to Davidson in the fall. But Menkhaus, who says he is “comfortable talking about regional dynamics,” will also
be teaching Political Science 242, “Politics of the Red Sea.” The course will be supplemented by guest lecturers, site visits,
and travel.

Applications will be available in the Office for Study Abroad in December. Cost for the program is estimated at $3500,
which includes airfare, room and board, travel within Yemen, and tuition.

National Geographic Admission to Dr. Jane Goodall’s Nov. 19 lecture will be granted only to those with tickets. Tickets are
available at the Union ticket office between 2 p.m. and 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. Tickets are free, but students
must present a Davidson ID to obtain one. Limit one ticket per student. After Nov. 14, tickets will be made
available to the general public.

Neigert leaves school
By Mary Care JALONICK
Executive Editor

Sophomore Robert Neigert moved out of his room this weekend, and it is not known for certain when he will
be back to Davidson. On November 1, Neigert, intoxicated, left a life-threatening message on sophomore Robbie Lee’s voice mail.and later
cut senior Chris Machon with an illegal butterfly knife. Lee has pressed charges against Neigert for “communicating a threat”; Machon
has not pressed charges. Referring to Neigert’s departure, Machon says, “what needed to happen happened.” Machon is still taking drugs
for the pain in his hand and is unable to do schoolwork. He says his professors are “giving me a
lot of leeway, and are very understanding.” Lee says that she now feels “a lot safer.” She isn’t sure if
she can forgive Neigert for his harsh words but does acknowledge that he sent her a long letter of apology.
Among other regrets and explanations, Neigert said the night was a “nightmare” for him and that he was “fully responsible”
for his actions.

In a police report released this week, witnesses confirmed that Neigert was violent throughout the night of the 1st, repeatedly
threatening Lee. The problems started after a problem arose between the two at Phi Gamma Delta, in which she shoved
him and he became angry. He was escorted out of the fraternity and taken to campus by a person who
said he made threatening remarks about Lee (who remained at the fraternity) in the car. According to the report, Neigert
remained violent when he returned to his room. He then left the threatening message to Lee. Machon later found Neigert
in the Belk stairwell with a knife, talking about Lee, and tried to calm him down. After a few minutes,
Machon “unconsciously moved forward,” and Neigert cut the top of his wrist down to the bone. Neigert immediately dropped the
knife and ran with Machon to the Student Health Center, where he was arrested for leaving the message.

Lt. D.E. McLaurin, Head of Investigations at the Campus Police, says that he would “have to say” that the incident
was “not intentional... with the pressure students are under here... they [go out and drink], and alcohol changes their personality...
[they] get carried away sometimes, and do things they might regret.” He has talked to Neigert, and he says that
Neigert “doesn’t seem like the kind of person who would [do this kind of thing].” Still, he says, he has
never seen such an incident at Davidson. After ten years here, “I’ve seen a few fights, but nothing like this.”

Dean Leslie Marsicano, who cannot speak about the case specifically, agrees. She says, “there is not a clear picture that
involves all of these elements.”

Students interested in, and have potential in, careers in mathematics, the natural sciences, and engineering (but not medicine) are invited
to apply for the Barry M. Goldwater scholarship program. It is open to students who will be seniors or juniors
during the 1997-98 year. It awards up to $7000 per year. In practice, only students with a good GPA and
research experience are eligible. Deadline: November 15.

PASTA COMPANY
CARRY OUT DELIVERY DINE-IN
896-8333

Alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages available. Featuring the best import and domestic beers and a full line of wines including Chardonnay,
Cabernet, and Merlot.
* We deliver full meals including all alcoholic beverages.
* FREE delivery. Limited delivery area. $10 Minimum Delivery
* Major Credit Cards Accepted.

HOURS:
11:30-9 Mon. - Thur.
11:30-10 Fri. - Sat.
Closed Sunday

I-77, Exit 28, Norman Crossing Shopping Center

10% off any pasta combo with student I.D. thru 3/31/97

GET INVOLVED.
