OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1996

R.J. Joseph

Tupac Shakur: A Baptism and Trial by Fire

Darkness. An evolving, ever-changing void which stretches through the vast, nebulous confines of space. From this abyss, the four natural elements came forth. Namely, earth, wind, water, and fire. However, as time went on, the first three elements dissipated into oblivion and the element known as fire remained.

Fire. What is fire? All of a sudden, it came to me like a blinding light, a flash of insight. Fire is the conviction to maintain and persevere when they call you—whatever they’re going to call you. The former sentiment exemplifies the late rapper/actor Tupac Shakur. For during his 25 turbulent years of life on this planet, Tupac Shakur was persecuted by a wave of controversy which would follow him continuously for the duration of his life. However, for all of the drama which surrounded Tupac, one cannot deny that the man was honest and truthful about the reality of the life experiences and expectancies of inhabitants in America’s inner cities. In doing so, he always stayed true to himself and his mission of producing music regardless of the reprimands, jibes, and insults he received from the naysayers and his critics. He was America’s prime agent provocateur. And that is a nice term, considering that he was portrayed as a thug, an opportunist, and a media manipulator by the press.

For all the criticism Tupac received, he still called things as he saw them. The man never pulled any punches. No retreat and no surrender. Tupac was a man who answered to no one but himself and was not above responding to his critics when they questioned his opinions. I respect this and I respect him for his solid take on the sensitive subjects that people often consider taboo. One should not be surprised about his take on life. Sometimes, people may see evidence of certain goings-on and tend to sweep issues under the carpet, hoping the issue will go away. Not so with Tupac Shakur. The fire was with him from the time he was born. His first glimpse of the world may have been a dark jail cell where his mother (a member of the activist Black Panthers) carried him while being incarcerated for taking part in a protest in the early 1970s. I believe this first foray into real life may have innately set the stage for the troubling times that were yet to come. Maybe he was becoming aware of his situation in society at large, for the lyrics in his albums touched on the harshness of life in poverty-stricken areas. As time progressed, his lyrics became more brash about issues such as black male genocide, politicians’ insensitive views towards the hip-hop culture, harassment by the police, and the numerous other plagues that haunt Americans of African descent.

His life seemed to mirror his craft or vice versa. There was constant media coverage, brushes with the judicial system, and rumors of bad blood between competing rap recording firms from the East and West coasts. But that was all it was. It was bad press from an overzealous media whose sole objective was to obtain good ratings and sell newspapers. Tupac took his time in the spotlight with a grain of salt, but not without responding to those people who sought to debase his character. The model, Tyson Beckford, summed it up in a recent VIBE article, “There is something seemingly threatening about black men... once you get to a certain level, [people] start messing with you.”

It must be said that Tupac Shakur was not a saint. Yet, despite his difficulties, he had raw talent and potential. He never assumed that he was a spokesman for the younger members of an ignored subculture of minorities. The poignancy, the charisma, and the power came from the fact that many of these same people identified personally with his music. He unwittingly became a public figure to whom many a person could relate, since their daily struggles were finally being addressed by one of their peers.

Tupac Shakur, the revolutionary multimillionaire rapper, was himself dropped on Sept 13, 1996. A few days later, Tupac gave up the ghost and died of heart failure, after struggling to return to the land of the living. Comments came in fast and furious. Words expressing pain and sorrow to others who simply professed nonchalance. Many of us have seen the negative side of Tupac, but he did have a sensitive side. Too many times we tend to focus on the evil. His reflective side is present in his lyrics. “Dear Mama” is his most introspective piece. In this song, he pays homage to his mother and is thankful for the time and responsibility she spent caring for him and his sister. The lyrics follow:

Mama I finally understand/ for a woman it [ain’t] easy trying to raise a man/ you [always were committed]/A poor single mother on welfare/ Tell me how you did it/ There is no way I can pay you back/ But the plan is to show you that I understand./ You are appreciated. “Dear Mama”

Then there is the sorrow he expresses for a young mother who is trapped by her circumstances:

Now Brenda never really knew her mom/and her dad was a junkie putting death into his arms/ It’s sad because I bet Brenda didn’t know/Just [cuz] you’re in the ghetto/ doesn’t mean you can’t grow.” “Brenda’s Got a Baby”

These next few lyrics express a lament for his male counterparts.who died in violent circumstances: How many brothers fell victim to the streets / rest in peace young [brothers] / Is there a heaven for a G? / Be a lie if I told you that I never thought of death / My [brother], we’[re] the last one’s left / And life goes on. “Life goes on” And life does go on. A few days after his death, he was cremated. The man, who constantly lived within the fire and fanned the flames of controversy, was finally consumed by the element which spawned him. But the fire has not been extinguished. Somewhere out there, a flame is being lit in his memory. Hopefully, some of us will learn from his death. In the meantime, for those people who are constantly under fire, always remember: fire is the conviction to persevere and excel when the nay-sayers call you whatever they’re going to call you. R.I.P. Tupac.

I have watched the recent debate between Sabine Heller and Saad Gul, Fahd Gul, Yasar Ishaq, and Vinod Thomas with great interest. For me, it is a situation involving many variables. I am a feminist and a Middle Eastern Studies major. For a long time, I played the apologist and denied women’s realities in the Middle East because I was anxious to dispel Western stereotypes about the region. (Oh, if you are antsy about the placement of Pakistan within the geographical category of the Middle East, I am doing so for my own purposes in this article. I understand that all may not agree with this and I understand why.)

At first, I was a bit surprised that nobody wrote in to defend Sabine Heller. But it really isn’t surprising when I think about it. In effect, if you defend Ms. Heller, then you defend western feminism. If you defend western feminism, you are defaming the culture of another region. If you defame culture, you are a bigot, and in this case, an orientalist. Do you really believe this? I don’t. Defending Ms. Heller is easy. Her point was simple: women face subjugation in most of the world; we should be mindful of this oppression.

If you would like to know what feminists in Pakistan struggle against, you don’t have to go there. Look no further than Fahd Gul and Yasar Ishaq. Their description of the “respect” given to women in Pakistan is as follows: “Public transportation has seats reserved in the front for women... having travelled extensively around Pakistan, we can recall... having to step off the bus because there was not enough space for the women.” Is this equality? Is this respect? No. This is a policy based on an androcentric notion of man’s strength and woman’s weakness. I would never claim that sexism does not exist in the modern industrial West. I understand that the Mssrs. Gul, Mr. Ishaq, and Mr. Thomas feel the need to increase awareness of their respective countries, but their binary oppositions only appear more ignorant in this case.

Kristen Richardson

On increasing awareness

Jeffrey Coker

In John Blake’s Defense

I am writing in regard to the Union Board’s recent cancellation of the mock game show “Singled Out” on DCTV. Once again, we have managed to let political correctness get the best of us. The decision was just plain silly for a number of reasons. First, let me say that I don’t care if the show is run or not. It’s not a big deal. However, on principle, I think we are embarrassing ourselves by suggesting that we don’t have enough decency to have good, clean fun. This is a good example of a common Davidson fallacy... thinking too much and intellectualizing an innocent social event so that all common sense in the matter is lost.

Abraham Lincoln once said, “If you look only for the evil in man, you shall surely find it.” This observation applies to our situation. It is certainly good to be sensitive to the feelings of others, but there is a distinct difference between being sensitive and being anal. I hate to say that, but I can’t help but think it regarding this issue, and a lot of others on campus. It seems like over-intellectualizing and political correctness cloud our common sense.

Nothing is more representative of Davidson than our Honor Code. In order to gain certain freedoms, we must have a general trust in each other based on an optimistic view of human nature. This works because intelligent and ethical people respond well to freedom and generally live up to what is expected of them. If we expect that we can’t control ourselves, what are we saying?

Let me address the opinion that “Well, there’s always one that will get out of control and do something stupid to embarrass themselves.” I like to call this the “Village Idiot” hypothesis. There’s one idiot everywhere you go, and everyone has been that idiot at some point in their lives. You either shrug it off and eventually laugh at yourself, or let acute tension progress to neuroticism, schizophrenia, and eventual homicidal behavior. I’m only kidding (It’s important to point this out, since the people I’m speaking to may not get the joke, otherwise).

I must also question the “little less than half of the Union Board” who abstained from voting. Why are you on the Union Board, to begin with? This is not at all meant to shun the Union Board. Many factors play into such decisions, and since I haven’t the foggiest about the background of this argument, I must give them the benefit of the doubt. I must say, however, that it will be a very pathetic day in Davidson history when we can’t hold a mock game show with some degree of decorum. Why can’t we laugh at ourselves? Am I wrong to have such confidence in Davidson students?