THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING

The Lottery: One Survivor’s Tale

Remember the savagery of the villagers in Shirley Jackson’s short story? Davidson students re-enact the horror.

By Emily Smith
Staff Writer

The flock of students that gathered at what Residence Life lightly names “Lottery 101” packed Chambers Gallery just before Easter break. Anxious juniors, sophomores, and freshmen embarked on their annual search for a place to call home at Davidson. Students braved the masses, awaiting a space in line to be determined by a randomly assigned lottery number. As usual, the available rooms were posted on the wall, or rather, black X’s loomed over areas claimed by luckier students. They eagerly questioned one another, while awaiting their turn to sign for a room. However, as the line decreased, so did the number of rooms. The black X epidemic left roommates whispering about their second choices and clusters nervously discussing third and fourth options. Expectant participants began squirming towards the front of the line (as if this would better their fated lottery number), while others carefully hid their room preferences (just in case someone decided to take “their” room).

The mad dash for next year’s renovated sophomore dorms found many students scribbling down specific room numbers. They quickly discovered what came to be known as the “fat daddy rooms,” the two large L-shaped rooms that will be created from the existing second-floor lounges. The demand for rooms up the hill provided an option for students who prefer sinks in their rooms, more square footage, and the proximity of academic buildings. Duke dorm’s spacious abodes were also a much sought-after commodity on Lottery night. The close of the annual Lottery 101 left many students trekking across campus to look at their newly won rooms. Others sulked outside Chambers and tried to arrange for visits from their long-departed friends.

“Sexpert” 99

By Jay Hupson
Staff Writer

Last week, international “sexpert” Jay Friedman spoke in a program entitled “Sex Matters: Insights and Outbursts on Love, Sex, and Dating.” Instead of just lecturing to us about sex for an hour, Friedman presented the topic in humorous fashion, replete with Seinfeld clips, slides, and a body condom. He discussed topics ranging from dream dates to pornography, and a host of other topics in-between. One of the first topics that Friedman spoke about was romance and how to keep romance in a loving relationship. One of the methods that he espoused was an idea termed a “perpetual bouquet.” For a perpetual bouquet to come to fruition, one member of a relationship needs to give their partner a different flower each day, resulting in an ever-changing and indefinitely long-lasting bouquet. In continuation, Friedman tested the male members of the audience to see if they could name 12 different types of flowers and maintained that any ’90s guy should be able to do so. The male population in the audience proved their worth by rapidly spouting off twelve, although one of them was dandelions. Another one of Friedman’s methods to keep romance in a relationship was to give your partner Hershey’s Kisses and make it such that the paper inside of each kiss was redeemable for a real kiss. Friedman also read several dream dates from students living in Iowa. All of the dates that he read involved spending a day alone on the beach and watching the sunset.

Before Friedman spoke, attendees participated in a "get to know each other" activity.to know you” sex game. Students found people who had experienced certain things or knew specific definitions. However, one male’s view of romance included getting picked up by a helicopter in Iowa and flying to a deserted Pacific island. Friedman also gave us his political views regarding sex and sex education. Friedman said that the increasing trend towards conservatism in the US will have a drastic impact upon our country in the future. Citing examples of the government cutting sex education programs, he claimed that the trend would increase the US’s sexual backwardness. In comparison, he used examples of European countries where talk about sex is not censored by the government and where the people behave more intelligently regarding sex.

The last topic of the evening was pornography and its role in society. In general, Friedman supports pornography; he claims that for the most part it promotes sexual awareness. To support this view, he showed slides from a European magazine which depicted couples in loving and not degrading positions. The slide he stayed on the longest, however, was a picture of a naked man. He did this essentially to make the male members of the audience uncomfortable. Friedman proved to be an extremely entertaining speaker. Although some of the things he talked about were overly trite, particularly the methods for keeping romance in a relationship, he was engaging and informative.

Parodies of Black Student Life performed in the 900 Room 7 p.m.-11 p.m.
Rev. Frederick Buechner, Staley Lecturer and famous theological writer, will speak on “The Longing for Home” in DCPC 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m.
Woodwind Quintet and friends play “Old Wine in New Bottles” in Hodson Hall 8 p.m.

MONDAY
Jumpin’ Java jump starts your week with poetry in the Outpost 8 p.m.-12 a.m.
Coffeehouse wakes you up in the 900 Room 8 a.m.-11 a.m.
Rev. Frederick Buechner, Staley Lecturer, will read from his fiction writing in the 900 Room 4:30 p.m.-6 p.m.
Indian Independent Study Projects shared in the 900 Room 7 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java in the Outpost 8 p.m.-12 a.m.
Forces of Nature, an Artist Series Performance, create a “living book” from which audiences of all ages may experience the African Diaspora and its influence in American dance in Love Auditorium 8:15 p.m.-9:30 p.m.
Ainslie T. Embree, Professor of History at Columbia University, speaks on “Nationalism in India” in the 900 Room 4 p.m.-5:30 p.m.
Dr. Michael Mahla speaks about how advances in technology have changed how doctors approach the surgical patient in Chambers Gallery 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m.
One Act Plays, “The Universal Language” and “Women and Wallace,” performed in the Black Box Theater 7 p.m.

WEDNESDAY
Wild Bunch makes you wish for the weekend in the 900 Room 9:30 p.m.-11:30 p.m.
Quaint little get-together on the Commons Patio 5 p.m.-7 p.m.
Red Cross Blood Drive — save a life in the Union 11 a.m.-4:30 p.m.
Veena Concert features traditional Indian stringed instrument accompanied by the mridangam drum in the 900 Room 4 p.m.-5:30 p.m.
Ice Cream Social and Band unites the campus for a p.m.
One Act Plays again in Black Box Theater 7 p.m.
Davidson College Symphony Orchestra performs with pianist-in-residence, James Swisher in Love Auditorium 8 p.m.
Wild Bunch plays in the 900 Room 8 p.m.-10 p.m.
Frolic, it’s Spring! Spring Frolics Concert gives you the fever 5:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. on Richardson Field
International Ball invites all to dance in the 900 Room 10 p.m.-1 a.m.
Jumpin’ Java keeps your spring fever high 2 p.m.-6 p.m.
Comedy Showcase makes for some good laughs in the 900 Room 8 p.m.-10:30 p.m.

Start shopping for graduation gifts.