THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1996

Wildcats thrash Catamounts
By WILL BALDWIN
Staff Writer

Davidson rugby overcame a long road trip, a hostile crowd, and a lack of substitutes to trounce Western Carolina, 34-3
on Saturday in Cullowhee. Rugby President Thayer Long said, “We had to overcome a lot of adversity this weekend. I
am real proud of all these guys because they refused to be cowed by Western’s dirty tactics.”

The game started out evenly, both teams unable to penetrate deep into opponent territory. Davidson drew first blood on a
Matt Burkhardt penalty kick. Davey Bacon used a ball fake to break into the open and beat the defense. Kicker
extraordinaire Matt Burkhardt deceived defenders. Josh Glazer down the field for five points, adding to the Davidson lead. The Davidson
backs employed quick passes, solid running, and a Hank Ackerman try at the end of the period, giving Davidson a
15-0 halftime lead.

The Wildcats showed superior conditioning and talent, repeatedly beating the Catamounts to loose balls. “We won the game because we
were all still running around tackling and rucking while half of their team was standing around gasping for air,” Ackerman
said. After an injury to Scott Burkhardt, Standout was enlisted as a Wildcat. He immediately proved his mettle with an
outstanding run over and through several Western players for a try. Holding the momentum, Davidson added David Derrick and Long
tries. The team is ecstatic over their sparkling 3-0 record, but disappointed with the turnout for this game. Said Craig
Murphy, “I wish we had had our whole team here so we could have beaten those guys 100-0.”

Team doesn’t panic despite disappointing week
By CLAYTON SCHLOSS
Staff Writer

The Davidson baseball team endured a disappointing string of losses last week, losing all four of their games. The Wildcats
lost to the UNC-Greensboro Spartans last Wednesday 5-4 and were swept this weekend in three games against the Appalachian State
Mountaineers by scores of 16-7, 9-3, and 6-0.

The Wildcats suffered a 12-inning heartbreaker last Wednesday in Greensboro, 5-4. Chris Pollard started on the mound for Davidson, and
Jonathan Coulombe pitched well in relief, allowing only one earned run. Second baseman T.J. Plummer led the way for the
Wildcats on offense, going three for five on the day, and catcher Dominick Talvacchio knocked in two runs. “There were
two teams out there who fought hard and deserved to win, but we came out of it with a frustrating
loss. We played tough and hung with them, but it wasn’t enough,” said Plummer. “We played twelve innings of good,
hard baseball today, but we just couldn’t pull it out,” added pitcher Mordecai Stolk.

Davidson hosted a doubleheader at Wildcat Park against Appalachian State last Saturday, and their fortunes did not change. The Mountaineers
dominated Davidson 16-7 in the opener, and they broke open a close game to take the nightcap 9-3. The Wildcats
never seemed to get on track in the first game, as Appalachian State lit up Davidson’s pitching staff for 17
hits and 10 walks en route to an easy victory. Mordecai Stolk started the game for the Wildcats, but he
blew out his arm and could not continue past the second inning. Right fielder Gus Quattlebaum was the lone bright
spot for Davidson, blasting solo and three-run homers and collecting four RBIs. “We didn’t come out mentally ready to play.
We made fundamental mistakes on defense that cost us,” said Quattlebaum.

Davidson took an early 2-1 lead in the second game on third baseman Anderson Marvin’s solo homer, but Appalachian State
came back to win. Chris Pollard, who started on the hill for the Wildcats, suffered his first loss of the
season. Chris Rodriguez of Appalachian State had a huge day, going eight for ten with a home run and five
RBIs. “The two games on Saturday were really exciting. I was a little disappointed at the outcome, but this team
has a lot of potential and they’ll get better over time,” said Bo Craig, who eagerly attended both Saturday games
along with 247 other fans.

Appalachian State completed the sweep of Davidson Sunday, winning comfortably 6-0. The Wildcats were held to only two hits, as
starting pitcher Jonathan Coulombe picked up the loss. The most costly blow was a grand slam by Appalachian State’s Scott
Garrett. However, the team is not panicked. They feel there is plenty of time to improve on their 1-6 record.
During Spring Break, the Wildcats have big matchups against Duke and Wake Forest, and they face an always talented Citadel
team the week we return.

Run! from page 14

Mother and professor says that she wants to run one more, but she is unsure where and when she wants
to do it. She is looking for an unusual race, preferably in the fall, but the possibility of racing in
Chicago where she ran her first 10k is tempting. Roberts is now a race director too. She has planned a
competitive run, to be held on May 4, called the Davidson Town Day 5k. It will be part of the
festivities of Town Day ‘96, which will be centered around...Centered on the town green in front of the new Public
Library, proceeds from the race will be donated to the Davidson/Cornelius Daycare Center. “A 5k is a good distance for
people who have never run a race before. For more serious runners, it is a distance where you can push
yourself unlike a 10k where you have to conserve,” Dr. Roberts explained. “There will also be surprises along the course.”
She said that she is considering several interesting loops through Davidson. She will also be selling Town Day 5k T-shirts.
Roberts hopes to make this an annual event and encourages Davidson College students to participate.

Wildcats to host tournament game
By Daniel Motz & Mike Kruse
Staff Writer & Asst Sports Editor

The Davidson women’s basketball team had mixed results this week, beating Tennessee-Chattanooga, 79-74, Monday and East Tennessee St., Thursday, 75-66,
before falling to Marshall, 85-69, Saturday in Belk Arena.

Women’s Basketball

Thursday’s win clinched home court advantage for Davidson in the first round of the Southern Conference tournament on Wednesday. Saturday,
the Wildcats played the Thundering Herd close early, trailing by just two at the half. But Marshall came out firing
in the second half, continually nailing three-pointers that eventually wore the Wildcats down. “The three-pointer is their (Marshall’s) only offense,
and when they hit the three, they are very tough to beat,” Carolyn Kirsch said. Jessica Montrella, who scored 12
for the Wildcats, also credits Marshall’s rebounding. “In the second half, they were effective on the offensive boards and were
able to get a lot of easy points with put-backs,” she said. Added coach John Filar, “We got a little
tired on defense. We had four games in eight days (going into Saturday). I knew, sooner or later, the legs
were gonna catch up to us. It was disappointing.”

Kristina Behnfeldt led Marshall with a career-high 25 points and 14 rebounds, while Ferrucci tallied 18 for the Wildcats. Saturday’s
contest represented the last regular season game at Belk for seniors Kristen Ferrucci, Maggie Young, Tonya Sharpe, and Molly Burke
who were honored in a pre-game ceremony. As the first recruited class after the reinstatement of the women’s basketball program
at Davidson in 1992-93, the quartet has resurrected the Wildcats from recent doldrums to where they currently stand, an even
.500 in league play and ready to host postseason action for the first time ever. “We took the approach when
we had to build this program from scratch to build it around not just quality players, but quality people,” Filar
explained, “That’s what these four have meant. These four have been such great role models. They’ve given so much to
this program. They’re four of the best young ladies I've ever coached. They really are.”

“Obviously we’ve had some disappointing losses this season, but we’re putting all of that away to focus on Wednesday,” Montrella
said. “Last year any time we took the court, we were never the favorite,” said Filar, “This year, we turned
the tables completely and we expect to win. That’s a big step to take in one year.” And the next
step is a victory Wednesday night. “One of our goals was to host a tournament game. We’ve played so well
at home,” added Filar, “The student body has now really started to buy into this team. We need the student
body to turn out in mass on Wednesday night. These kids need a big send-off, whether they win or lose,
they need to hear some big-time noise at the end of the game.” Game time is 7 p.m.

Conference tourney looms
By John Rog
Staff Writer

Davidson finished their dual meet season Tuesday night by topping Longwood, 32-15, and falling to a skilled App. St. team,
40-9.

Wrestling

The grapplers experienced ups and downs throughout this year’s campaign, but according to coach Tom Oddo, the team finished extremely
well. “I was very pleased by the way we came back and fought in all of the matches. These two
matches were a good close to a successful dual meet season,” said Oddo. The Wildcats avenged an earlier loss to
Longwood, taking every weight class except 118. Freshman Christian Baker (134) got the team rolling by defeating his opponent, 10-4.
Baker pieced together two takedowns and two near falls in the first period to take a commanding 9-1 advantage on
his way to the easy victory. George Escaravage outlasted Ivan Cruz, 5-3. 150-pounder Sean Harvey and his opponent were both
disqualified just nine seconds into the first round of their bout. The Wildcats continued to dominate, as Miller Cary and
Seth Herman, both wrestling up a weight class, prevailed 9-4 and 9-7, respectively. Ben Wall increased his conference-leading pin total
to nine, upping his team-leading record to 19-9. Chip Stewart posted a 1-0 triumph, his only point coming from a
second-period escape. Although the Wildcats wrestled well versus the Mountaineers, App. St. ultimately proved too strong. After giving up the
first takedown and reversal, Baker battled back in the third period to overcome Hariston, 9-4. Only the conference tournament in
Greensboro, starting Saturday, remains for the Wildcats.
