THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1996 3

Three laptops stolen from library

By ANN CUP

Staff Writer

Students can study in Chambers any time of the day or night because the building stays open. Book bags are often left to be picked up by their owner later. No one pockets the extra change in the copier. Yet, Davidson is still vulnerable. Signs in the library read: “Due to recent thefts, do not leave computers and other equipment unattended.”

Senior Lauren Ellis’ computer and CD player were stolen from a second-floor library carrel when she took a break for lunch.

“It frustrates me because we all trust the honor code so much and it’s all going to hurt us when we leave,” said Ellis. “You leave doors unlocked and bags laying around and you don’t think someone will steal something.”

In the month of November, three laptops were stolen from the library. Bikes and book bags are continually reported as missing also.

Theft is not new to Davidson, but the rash of occurrences has left many people wary.

Brian Campbell ‘99 says, “I think it’s unfortunate that we have to lock up our things. Although Davidson isn’t the ‘real world,’ the virtual world is no better.”

Until a better answer is found, signs will continue to be posted which warn of real-world problems.

Extended hours in the computer center this week:

Sun.-Wed. computer center open until 3 a.m.

Extended hours in the library as well!

Residence life to conduct internal survey of operations
Students can express grievances and concerns in RLO in-house examination

By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
News Editor

Davidson’s Residence Life Office is “ready and willing to hear what [students] have to say” about on-campus housing, says RLO Director Kurt Holmes.

As coordinator of all on-campus student housing, no student leaves Davidson without coming into contact with the Residence Life Office.

RLO is currently under scrutiny by a 12-member committee formed to conduct an in-house self-evaluation of the department.

Students Lucy Sherman and David Derrick sit on the review committee, as do several professors, the Associate Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano, and staff from Physical Plant, the Controller’s Office, the Admissions Office, and Health Services.

However, no representatives of RLO are included in committee membership.

“I sit in on [some] committee meetings to answer questions,” says Holmes.

He says he gave the committee “carte blanche” to take their review in any direction.

Ringle worries about drug use on campus

By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
News Editor

Although the on-campus use of alcohol and marijuana is widely recognized among students and staff, Health Educator Georgia Ringle worries about evidence of harder drugs such as cocaine and LSD on campus.

"I think we have reason to be concerned," she says. Rohypnol, a downer 20 times stronger than Valium, has been "implicated in date rape cases."

She says, "I have heard reports of 'roofies' in Charlotte nightclubs. As far as I'm concerned, that's close enough. There's no reason in the world that they may not appear on campus."

“Roofies,” a street name for Rohypnol, is the second most commonly declared drug coming over the Texas-Mexico border, according to a September 3 article in the Charlotte Observer.

The scary thing about illegal drugs is that they are not regulated, says Ringle. "Most drug dealers are going to cut their drug with something."

"Cocaine in itself can be extremely powerful," she says, "but combined with other substances it can be an even more dangerous drug.... We have had some word that it is present on this campus."

"Very few people know the source of their drug” and “on this campus, very few people even realize what they are experimenting with,” Ringle says.

The campus police department has also seen recent cases of illegal drugs on campus. On December 5th, officers found an “unruly white male” on Fourth Belk who had dropped “eight to nine” tabs of acid. The student was charged with possession of cocaine and marijuana.

"Students can come and talk to me about their drug use -- legal or illegal." Ringle says her position as counselor enables her to keep such discussions confidential.

Rarely known facts that might help you through the exam period: in order from most to least caffeine — 16 oz. coffee, Vivarin, NoDoz, 8 oz. Instant Coffee, 16 oz. Caffe Latte, Caffe Mocha, 20 oz. Cola, 12 oz. Mountain Dew, 16 oz. Cola, Tea, Chocolate, Chocolate milk, Decaf coffee.

WANT TO BE A TOUR GUIDE?

THE ADMISSION OFFICE IS CHOOSING NEW TOUR GUIDES FOR THE SPRING SEMESTER.

INTERVIEWS WILL BE HELD THE FIRST SATURDAY AFTER CHRISTMAS BREAK.

CALL MATT GRIFFITH AT X2031 IF YOU'RE INTERESTED, TO GET YOUR NAME ON A LIST AND SET UP AN INTERVIEW TIME.