16 THE DAVIDSONIAN BACK PAGE INTERVIEW MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 1996

Just after announcing his resignation to the faculty, President Kuykendall reflects on his tenure at Davidson.

January 16, 1996

How would you describe your tenure here?

The greatest privilege of my life. It is gratifying to be in a vocation and to be invited back to
a place where you began that pilgrimage. I’m almost maudlin about Davidson. I just think it’s a great place. Not
that it is perfect and not that it can’t be improved, and not that it doesn’t take a lot of
hard work to keep it on track. But this is home to me in a very profound sense — so
it’s been very gratifying.

What do you think were the highlights of your time at Davidson?

That’s hard to answer. It’s been a time filled with wonderful experiences that I would not otherwise have had in
terms of meeting people and working together in good causes. I’m not sure I can label “highlights.” I mentioned to
one reporter that some of your predecessors, three or four years ago, got wind of a rumor that I was
supposed to be leaving to go somewhere else (which lacked any substance in fact), but they wrote a very gratifying
editorial encouraging me not to go. That was a humorous highlight. Apart from that, I’m glad that we have successfully
completed the Campaign for Davidson, which was a very constant personal preoccupation for about five and a half, six years
... I wouldn’t call it so much a highlight as just a wonderful experience throughout. I really never got tired
of the Campaign because it was so diverse ... and because of the worthiness of what we were trying to
accomplish.

In what ways do you think the student body has changed during your stay at Davidson?

It is in some respects more diverse. It’s certainly more diverse geographically. In terms of what they refer to in
the trade as “spike talents” it is more diverse — special gifts in music, in drama, in creative writing, things
like that. I think there’s probably a more self-conscious effort on the college’s part to promote diversity as we recruit
and select the incoming class. In terms of racial-ethnic minorities it is probably a little more diverse now. It is
not, in my own personal judgment, satisfactorily diverse in that respect. There has not been the kind of growth in
that area that we have expected or desired. One wonders what can be done that we haven’t been doing. On
another front, regarding matters of the student body, I’d say that it is still rather nonpolitical. And I don’t mean
that in terms of campus politics: A lot of things are going on in that regard. We have real issues
to deal with in terms of our community, responsibilities to each other, and the things we do and don’t do.
But in terms of the national and international scene, this is a generation akin to my own college cohort ...
Students are not, just now, very much motivated to become engaged in politics. It really is very reminiscent of the
fifties in that respect ... I think the rank and file of the Davidson student community is not actively involved
in the political issues of the day.

In the statement of purpose it says that the college intends that the “vital relationship” between the church and the
college will remain strong. Do you feel ties were as strong as they were when you began?

Yes, at least on the college’s part. But somewhat different because of the changing nature of American religious life in
the later part of the twentieth century and especially the changing nature of denominational strength and continuity. As far as
the Presbyterian Church is concerned, younger! And again, they seem more diverse. They come from a variety of backgrounds, and
many have a meaningful and intimate relationship with the college — not just Davidson but all the colleges.

What changes do you wish could have happened during your term as president?

Well, I’ve already mentioned one, and that is the enhancement of the racial/ethnic minority presence on campus ... The presence
of a critical mass of racial/ethnic minority students, especially African American students, has eluded us. That’s still before us to
be done. I would also have liked to have raised substantially more money for Davidson’s endowment. One of the things
that has been most evident in terms of comparisons between Davidson and other institutions has been the fact that we
areThere does not seem to be the interest or the engagement that was present ten years ago. In some ways,
it’s a function of the fact that the denomination itself has more concerns than it can say grace over right
now... The most significant story in American religion in this last third of the twentieth century has been the demise
of the strength of the mainline denominations. The Presbyterian Church at one time was giving money, was sending students, was
doing all sorts of things for the institutions it claimed. It is now unable to give money and probably, for
different reasons, unable to give the kind of focused encouragement to Presbyterians to go to Davidson or other Presbyterian-related colleges...
But one wonders what the future holds in terms of the denominational ability to maintain contact and to maintain a...

We are under-endowed. We make up for it with other virtues: hard work, frugality, all those things that you like
to talk about, but in fact, we have to do more with less and keep on doing it. I would
certainly love to have seen the endowment grow, and that’s a statement that needs to be said in context because
when I came here, my recollection is that the endowment was plus or minus fifty million dollars. It’s now one
hundred and sixty on a good day. It ought to be twice that in terms of our needs and aspirations,
I think... But it’s always going to be a very demanding job to accumulate the necessary resources.

A third thing that I would love to see is athletics at Davidson as a source of cohesiveness rather than
controversy. We live with a kind of hand-to-mouth, we’ll-look-at-it-in-two-years mentality, and that’s probably not to the college’s benefit. It is
no comfort, but it is probably accurate to say that were there an easy answer to this, it would have
long since been discovered and implemented. But there is no easy answer.

I asked you about changes you had seen in students. What changes have you seen in faculty?

Well, the new ones have gotten to a new part of the country and to a new sort of institution.
But they come to Davidson knowing they want to teach and knowing that they have to teach well. They also
come with the additional personal goal of intending to be a productive scholar in a particular field of specialization, where
few (if any) share that particular subset of knowledge. You can't go find the “team” of six or eight people
in your specialty because you're it. You are the person responsible for this particular subject. You have to find community
here of an intellectual sort, despite the fact that the people here may not “understand you” in your living area
of specialization.

What kind of qualities would you like to see in your successor?

Well, first of all, I would like to see someone who cares as much about the institution as I do.
Then I would like to see someone who is more capable than I in matters administrative, but who generally cares
about people and generally treasures all of the virtues of community life here. I hope for someone who is willing
to speak of Davidson as “family,” not in the sense that we agree on everything but in the sense that
we belong together, we share a common experience, we’re stuck with each other. This is what we’ve got, and we
are going to live together, and we are going to make it a meaningful experience for the whole. I would
like that person to be an educator, not necessarily in the specific sense of one who has had teaching experience,
but someone who understands almost intuitively the missions and aspirations of the College and can be collegial to the faculty
with an appreciation for the particular demands of their job, can have either a real or vicarious enjoyment of the
growth of Davidson students during their four years, perhaps by going into the classroom (which has been as great a
single joy as I’ve had in my years here). I think that he or she should take the heritage of
the place seriously. It would be counterproductive for a person to come who didn’t understand why those who love Davidson
do so, at the same time acknowledging that “new occasions take new duties.” Thus we shape the future in such
a way that it has compatibility with the good things that come out of the past, and we strive to
move beyond the liabilities of the past.

BY JOHN COPENHAVER, MANDY CURTIS, & MARY CLARE JALONICK
