DAVIDSONIAN ~ SPORTS
MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1996

JOHN ROE
Outdoors Columnist

There is something magical about rivers this time of year. The pools and riffles seem to purify as the waters become clearer and cooler in the low volume flows characteristic of early fall. The backwaters and shoreline become lined with a new layer of freshly fallen leaves each day, accumulating an organic, sweetened smell. The forests and fields surrounding the waterways take on an all-new appearance, with hues such as orange, red, and yellow reflecting off the water as it curls around a log and into a lazy pool.

Not only does the landscape change, but the critters become busy in preparation for the cooler days ahead. It is not uncommon to be scolded by a squirrel gathering acorns in an oak tree or to spook a covey of quail or doves bathing on the shoreline as you wade or paddle down a river. The water is a sanctuary for all living things, for the rivers, creeks, and springs act as arteries, veins, and capillaries for mother nature as they provide the most vital nutrient of all, water.

In the fall, when hunting season starts, it makes sense to spend time around water. Deer, turkeys, and quail, as well as a score of other small game animals, frequent water sources many times a day. Deer stands overlooking a spring or creek are often productive, but if no deer are seen, I could think of no better place to watch the many other critters that come to drink. Simply walking along a waterway, taking care to move as cautiously as possible, will put you in position for jump shots at wood ducks, rabbits, and woodcock.

If you are not a hunter, the fall waters are full of fish eager to bite. The onset of cool weather and shortened daylight triggers a feeding instinct that fattens fish for the winter. Dragging a spinner or floating a fly through a pool with proper technique is often met with a sudden tug from the other end of the line. Some fish turn brilliant colors in the fall of the year, such as the brook trout, Salvelinus fontinalus, which spawns in autumn. Catching a fish in this iridescent splendor, with a dark blue back and a bright orange belly, can only be done in the fall. Smallmouth, rock bass, and Kentucky bass can oftentimes be fooled by slowly working a topwater lure across a deep pool in the calm of dusk.

If the fish are not biting, however, there is so much else to enjoy. Stop for a moment on the shoreline, take in the sounds of the wind rustling the dry leaves, the mourning dove’s call, or just the silence, and soon you will forget about the fish that ignored your offerings. Creeks, rivers, and springs are the pathways you should travel this fall, for they will take you to the critters and fish that call these rich places home, as well as show you the brilliant colors that dance along the waters. Some of my most memorable outdoor excursions have occurred in the fall, and many have been on the water. Autumn is upon us, a spectacular time of year.

Serve me dinner
By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

In this Friday’s volleyball match-up with Georgia Southern, North Harbor Cafe will be giving away dinner for two. Participants get three attempts to serve the ball into a ball hamper. In addition, any participant that can hit one of the three shirts lying around the hamper will win it. Fans will receive a raffle ticket at the door, which enters them in the contest and may be redeemed for a slice of pizza at the men’s soccer match which follows the game.

During the men’s soccer game on Friday vs. Georgia Southern, there will be a $1500 adidas giveaway. So after cheering on the volleyball team, come watch men’s soccer face the Eagles. Maybe you’ll even go home with some new clothes.

Women run tough without Burr
By JONATHAN S. HAYES
Staff Writer

Colleges from all over North Carolina traveled to Charlotte this weekend for the state meet. A host of schools, including Duke, Wake Forest, and Carolina, attended the championship. While co-captain Kelly Kiefer and Kate Pittenger returned from the disabled list, Davidson’s top runner Suzy Burr was unable to run for reasons the team would not disclose. Allie Curran finished first among the Wildcat women. Both she and co-captain Beth Brewster achieved their fastest times ever. Next weekend the women have their last home meet - the Davidson Alumnae Invitational.

Volleyball drops two over break
By DREW WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

Over fall break, the Wildcat volleyball squad dropped two away matches to Radford and Marshall. L.A. Bumgarner led the team in kills Monday against Marshall, while freshman Gina Lawrence led the squad in kills, blocks, and digs Tuesday against Radford.

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

FAYETTEVILLE— What goes up must come down. And after winning two straight at home,Davidson came crashing down Saturday against Methodist at Monarch Field, losing 42-13 in by far its worst showing this season. The Monarchs dominated after an even first quarter, holding Davidson to 256 yards of total offense and tallying 6 touchdowns on a defense that had allowed a stingy 15 points per game over the first half of the season. "A loss like this is kind of like a slap in the face, an eye-opener," said Mike Harrington, who caught three balls for 27 yards and is the Wildcats’ leading receiver this season. "We played a horrible game. We didn’t play well enough to win. This is going to show us that if we don’t execute, we’ll be beat. Bad."

Davidson (3-3) did strike first, though. Standout rookie fullback Eric Ferguson, who rushed for 86 yards on 17 carries and was perhaps the lone bright spot for a relatively stagnant Wildcat offense, scampered 14 yards into the end zone practically untouched, giving Davidson the early lead. Dunn Mileham’s extra point made it 7-0 with 4:05 left in the first quarter. But that lead proved fleeting, as Monarch fullback Dedrick Gaddy took a screen pass from quarterback Brian Turner and weaved 34 yards for the tying score less than two minutes later, triggering a Methodist offensive explosion of 35 unanswered points over the next two quarters. By the time Ferguson notched his second touchdown on a 1-yard run at the 1:59 mark in the third, the game’s outcome was all but a foregone conclusion. Methodist added another score with 2:29 remaining, accounting for the final lopsided margin.

"We ran into a team that was determined today," said coach Tim Landis. "We didn’t do enough good things to offset their good things. They just beat us in every aspect of the game." While the Monarchs used pinpoint passing and proficient rushing to run up 417 total yards, including 6.6 per play (Davidson averaged just 3.1), the Wildcats were forced to punt a school-record 14 times. Davidson quarterbacks Tommy Dugan and Matt Strader combined to complete nine of 37 passing attempts. Linebacker Wes Thornton led the defense, recording 11 tackles, while cornerback Clif Henry had 10. Linemen John Cowan and Ben Spivey each contributed a tackle for a loss, and Donnie Johnson had an interception.

"They executed all their plays and we didn’t," said Chris Currie. "But those are mistakes that we can correct in practice." "We had a real off day," said Henry. "The better team won. But this game’s over with. We’re already looking forward to next week."

Davidson upped its record to 3-2 on Oct. 12, topping rival Washington & Lee, 23-12. The Wildcats racked up 225 yards on the ground, including a career-best 124 yards on 17 carries by Ferguson. Dugan engineered two fourth-quarter touchdown drives to seal the victory.

Regular Season Flickerball Standings

Men’s League Division 1
Team’s Name Wins Losses
BOB 4 0
Go Deep 3 1
Rugmunchers 3 2
Cold Beer 3 2
En Fuego 2 3
KA 1 2
SAE 1 3
PIKA 0 4

Division 2
Beef Curtains 4 0
Ole Ole 3 2
The Wookies 2 1
Worst Nightmare 1 2
Waffle House 0 3

Division 3
AA Fly Boys 2 0-1
BBB 3 1
2nd Little 2 3
V&B 2 2
1st Little 0 5

Matches ended in three straight games. Now halfway through the season, Janet Duncan is leading the ‘Cats with a .170 attack percentage, with freshman Ginny Quis second on the squad at .154. L.A. Bumgarner leads the team in kills, and Cindy Seegers ranks first in assists with 263.

Women’s League Division 1
2nd Cannon 5 0
Kool & the Gang 3 2
3rd Cannon 2 2
1 Basement Rich 2 3
1st Rich 1 3
1 Rusk 1 4

Division 2
The Woohas 3 0-2
Cubby Bunnies 2 1
2nd Rich 2 2
4th Rich 2 2
The Wildthang 2 2
Connor 0 5

Bleeding from page 14

UVA Invitational, again playing the role of whipping boy. Princeton, ranked in the top 25 for much of the season, brushed the Wildcats aside, 5-1. Two days later Cornell blanked Davidson, 2-0. With Friday’s loss at Furman, Davidson’s losing streak now stands at nine. During the nine-game slide, the longest for a Davidson men’s soccer team since 1977, the Wildcats have been shut out five times and outscored, 31-4. With the lack of leadership on this team, it looks as though it is time for the Wildcats to think about next season. With the final two games approaching, Davidson hopes to lick the wounds from the sorry 1996 campaign and gain confidence for a fresh 1997.

Shops on the Green--Cornelius, NC 892-1848
Check out our new snowboard department.
AIRWALK
See all the new fall clothing from Patagonia & Columbia.