~ SPORTS 14 MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1996

Kruse's Cubby: Mascot madness
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Assistant Sports Editor

The Davidson Wildcats. We’ve been dubbed such since the 1920s, when Charlotte sportswriter Albert Potts, a 1919 Davidson graduate who
thought his alma mater’s quasi-nickname of “the Preachers” left something to be desired, began calling the teams “the Wildcats” in
his stories. The name stuck.

But that was then and this is now. We are currently immersed in times of revolutionary turmoil on our generally
painfully conservative campus. The Libertas reports a new earthshaking controversy every other week, such as the shocker that people here
smoke the weed. Three wooden crosses are met with a tirade of student opposition. Guys and girls don’t know how
to talk to each other. Throw in drugs, alcohol, and raging one-night stands to the typical middle school social scene,
and you have Davidson. The only apparent solution to this enigma is to form a progressive co-ed eating house. Co-ed
halls? Nah.

Our mascot should not be left out of this sweeping change at the Big D. When we became the Wildcats,
our football team played Georgia Tech and Auburn. Enough said. It’s time for a change. We complain of national anonymity—both
academically and athletically—yet, we are one of 29 American colleges or universities who call its mascot the Wildcats.

I say that we can make a name for ourselves. No, not by routinely producing Rhodes Scholars and CEOs, not
by winning 25 basketball games, not by making it to the NCAA soccer Final Four which we are hosting. But
by creating a flashy nickname. Unorthodox mascots can be vehicles of creativity, PR gems waiting to happen. Household names, if
you will. Take these otherwise unknown institutions: the Presbyterian Blue Hose, the UC-Santa Cruz Fightin’ Banana Slugs, the Western Maryland
Green Terror. And get this one: the Rhode Island School of Design Nads. Yesiree. Go Nads.

We, too, could be known worldwide. We, too, could be famous. And unless you’re a Kentucky or an Arizona, you
cannot hope to garner any sort of recognition with the blah moniker. Now, if you’re the Nads, that's a different
story.

So what should our new mascot be? You make the call. E-mail me with your brainchildren. I'll print some of
the best in the fall.

Signing off, til next year....

Lacrosse falls to Duke in final battle
Returning players, new recruits anticipate breakthrough year next spring
By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

Eight unanswered Duke goals changed Davidson’s 8-7 second half lead into a seven-goal deficit, at a first-ever .500 season. But
the loss didn’t dampen their high hopes for the future.

“Ever since we [junior tri-captains Rebecca MacLean, Sarah Hogan, and Allison Rhoads] were freshmen we’ve gotten better and better,” Hogan
said. “Next year we’re going to continue [improving] and have a winning season.”

The Wildcats went up 8-7 when Amanda Fleck beat the Blue Devil keeper for her third of four goals on
the day with 23:48 to play. But Davidson didn’t score again until 4:29 remained in the contest, with Duke holding
onto a commanding 15-8 advantage.

“Today we could have beat this team. There was a ten-minute spurt in the second half where we lost it,”
Coach Mary Schwartz said. “This is a young team, and that will change. Our intensity and focus has been lost
a couple times throughout the season. A couple times we’ve even pulled out wins, but that’s not going to happen.Thwarting
the 50) se (6-8) bid, Ashley Menger waits on a pass during the team’s 10-8 win over Ohio St. on
Apr. 20. Josh Glazer against the better teams [like Duke]. MacLean, Hogan, Rhoads, Erin Floyd, and Lisa Dorson all mentioned
fleeting focus as one of the team’s problem areas. “I don’t think we were tired. Just about every game we
have a stretch of time like that [where concentration is lost],” Floyd said. “There was a little bit of a
lull and then we had to play catch up. There was not enough time, and we had few subs, but
next year we'll have subs,” MacLean said. The Wildcats lose no one to graduation next month and fourteen recruits will
join the squad next year, providing the increased depth to which MacLean referred. “We’re going to be really good next
year,” said Lisa Dorson. “We’re getting a lot of good recruits, losing no seniors, and our coach is staying. I’m
a junior and we’ve had a different coach every year. I’m very happy with the coaching, and I’m glad she
made the commitment. Everyone’s excited.”

Baseball makes early exit from league tourney
By Kevin ZVARGULIS
Staff Writer

A season that began in February with high expectations, but sputtered throughout, ended with an appropriate thud on Friday afternoon
at the Southern Conference tournament in Charleston, SC. The upset-minded Wildcats (14-33) traveled to Charleston to face Georgia Southern (37-9),
the league’s most dominating team and top seed. The Eagles have soared into the nation’s Top 25 recently, going from
unranked obscurity just three weeks ago to the tenth-ranked team in the nation. The game, pitting Davidson senior ace Chris
Pollard against Southern Conference Pitcher of the Year Julio Ayala, was never really in question, as GSU won handily, 8-2.
Although Pollard pitched well, the Wildcats provided little support, producing as many hits (four) as errors.

On the heels of Thursday’s defeat, Davidson plunged into the loser’s bracket and a Friday elimination contest with App. St.
(27-18), and Mountaineer hurler Dan Stutzman, who entered the weekend as conference ERA (2.24) king. App. St. struck first, scoring
in the second on a Brett Berier RBI double. The Wildcats answered in the fifth, when Anderson Marvin stroked a
two-out double and then scored on a Dom Talvacchio single. Through the first six innings, John Coulombe and Stutzman were
locked in a pitcher’s duel. In the seventh though, App. St. took a 2-1 lead and had the bases loaded
with no outs, poised to have a big inning. Coulombe then struck out the next two batters and appeared on
the verge of making a great escape. But Brent Payton dealt the Wildcats a staggering blow, a bases-clearing double that
sealed Davidson’s demise. Davidson never recovered on its way to a 5-2 loss. Talvacchio and Marvin each had two hits
in the losing effort.

The Wildcats had one all-conference selection in right fielder Luke Goodwin, who entered the tournament with a .351 batting clip.
But the committee of head coaches apparently overlooked hard-hitting third baseman Gus Quattlebaum, who ended the season with a .315
batting average and 12 home runs. Davidson plays two non-conference contests this week, traveling to UNC-Asheville on Wednesday and hosting
Wofford on Friday.
