4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1996

Computers upgraded all around campus

By Mary CLARE JALONICK
Executive Editor

In addition to the new “Student Computing Center,” facelifts have been given to the library, the 24-hour computer lab in basement Chambers, and the computer classrooms in Chambers. All of the Macintoshes in Chambers classroom were replaced, and the old computers were moved to the 24-hour lab and the library. The library now has five Macintoshes and five Windows machines. The 24-hour lab now has six Macintoshes, all newer than the machines that were previously there. After being approached by the Student Government Association, computer services has also added a laser printer to the Basement Chambers facility.

However, Lydia Lorenzin, Coordinator of Academic Facilities and Services, says that they are worried about the security of the laser printer. “What we need is card access,” she says. Computer staff are hoping that this will be installed within the semester. The hours for the classroom on the 3rd floor of Chambers will be extended to close at 1 a.m. Lorenzin cites the student survey that was distributed last spring as a major factor in deciding what changes to make. “It really helped us,” she says. “I wish that more people had taken it, but it was good to be able to take student opinion into account.” The work is not all finished, however. “We still have a lot of work to do,” says Lorenzin, “but we have had a tremendous summer.”

New recycling program will challenge campus commitment

By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
News Editor

Davidson College introduces a new test this year which will be taken by every member of the student body as well as faculty and staff. Acing this test won’t result in a high GPA, but it will save the school a lot of money and will do the environment some good. Abandoning the recycling program which has existed for the past several years, Davidson will enter into a new and more lucrative recycling solution.

“Everybody will have access to two garbage cans: one for wet waste and one for recyclables,” explained Associate Professor of Economics David Martin. If the campus succeeds in keeping wet waste, which includes glass, restroom waste, food, and materials contaminated by food or liquids, separated from recyclables such as aluminum, plastic, all paper, and cardboards when disposing of these materials, Davidson will have the opportunity to see “tremendous savings,” said Tony Owens, Building Services Manager. The school now pays $31 for each ton of garbage it hauls to the landfill. Rather than joining non-recyclable waste in a landfill, this fall the entire contents of “recyclable” bins will be hauled to Fulton County Recycling (FCR) in Charlotte. There FCR will sort and sell the jumble of recyclables and send any garbage mixed in with these materials to the landfill. Davidson will be billed the usual $31 per ton disposal fee for this garbage. Not only can Davidson save money on the large amount of its recyclable waste that FCR accepts at no disposal charge, but theSchool might actually receive money back for the materials it sends to FCR. "If the rate of contamination is low — that is, if very little wet waste products are thrown into designated recyclable bins — FCR will figure their earnings on [the recyclable material] and will split them with us," said Owens. Under the new program, which Martin and Owens helped arrange this summer, a majority of Davidson’s trash will be recycled — free of the $31 per ton disposal cost. "FCR will be monitoring each and every dumpster Davidson sends them," said Martin. The recycling company will tolerate only a certain percentage of contamination.

Student Recycling Committee coordinators Seth Clippard, a senior, and sophomore Meredith Judy will work with Martin and Owens. They hope to educate the campus about the program in the hope that Davidson will meet its recycling challenge.

Parking prices soar to new heights
By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
News Editor

To the two-thirds of Davidson students who kept cars on campus last year, the benefits of personal transportation outweighed Davidson’s $60 vehicle registration fee. However, this fall as students drove onto campus, the price tag leapt to $80 over the summer. Has the Public Safety/Police Office received many complaints from students as they shelled out 33% more to keep their cars on campus?

"Only a couple," said Ray Thrower, Director of Public Safety/Police. According to Thrower, vehicle registration fees go to a campus general account and do not constitute part of the Campus Police budget. The decision to raise registration costs, he added, was handed down from the college’s vice presidents. The Davidsonian was unable to contact Vice President of Business and Finance Robert Norfleet for information as to why the fee was raised.

All students who intend to park their vehicles on campus this year must attach registration stickers to the front and rear windshields of their cars by Monday, August 26 or face parking violation fines. Thrower said that "none of the parking fines have gone up." The prices of these fines, he said, are controlled by the Public Safety Department. Parking unregistered cars on campus carries a fine of $30. After multiple offenses, the car may be towed. Vehicles parked in fire lanes, visitor spots at any time, or in employee spaces after 5 a.m. will be towed by Archers Wrecker Service on South Main Street. Thrower said that students are now allowed to park in faculty spaces during specified hours "to try to get students closer to the buildings at night." Those who wish to avoid the $80 registration fee may park in the Baker Sports Complex lot or in the far half of satellite parking.

You would be cool if you write for The Davidsonian.