THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1996

SEX IN MUSIC VIDEOS

“90% of music videos are directed by men”

TYLER Epp Guest Writer

Thursday night in the 900 Room, Dreamworlds 2, a documentary outlining desire, sex, and power in music videos, was shown to over 50 interested Davidson students. The video focused on how males in today’s society view women; what effects the seductive images of music videos have on how men and women interact with one another; and how these images affect how men and women think about sex.

Dreamworlds 2 consisted of approximately 45 minutes of clips of seductive videos including Madonna, the artist formerly known as Prince, the late Tupac Shakur, and L.L. Cool J., among others. Clips of their videos were flashed between comments by the narrator such as the fact that 90% of music videos are directed by men. Women were viewed as victims of the situation, however, only one artist, Amy Grant, was interviewed to give her opinion on the situation. This point raised great emotion in the discussion following the viewing.

A number of students, male and female, felt that women were being portrayed as victims and were given no room for space or pleasure. Another point of concern among the audience was Madonna, both as an artist and an activist. Members of the viewing audience felt that Madonna had gone from an activist for women’s rights in the 1980s to a conformist of sexual fantasies in the 1990s. Many of the male members of the audience were insulted by the video’s presentation of a typical male fantasy. According to Davidson students, the single fantasy for men depicted in Dreamworlds 2 is not the only fantasy men have.

It was also called to the attention of the viewers that the same videos were played over and over, singling out clips of erotic dancers and men and women involved in sexual acts. To make more of a statement, the video would have been better had it included examples from many different genres of music. It was also important to remember throughout the video that videos are a way of advertising for the artists who will do whatever they can to make an impression. The American public, Davidson students included, respond to many of these rather provocative videos which is why artists can get away with producing them.

Overall, the viewers felt that Dreamworlds 2 was a well-done piece of propaganda and did an outstanding job presenting its argument. Although it perhaps took things out of context and manipulated the artists, Dreamworlds 2 spurred a great deal of positive discussion about issues affecting our sexual attitudes toward each other.

photo by Herb Ritts

R.E.M. takes New Adventures

By JEFF FULLER Guest Writer

When I heard that the title of the new R.E.M. album would be called New Adventures in Hi-Fi, I feared that this old Athens-band-turned-superstars would go over the edge with their sounds, forsaking their roots completely and begin over-experimenting. However, when I listened to New Adventures, I found echoes of past albums like Out of Time, Automatic for the People, Monster and maybe even a murmur from their early years finely blended to deliver a diverse, yet solid album.

In their new album, R.E.M. uses some of the loud, grinding electric guitar sound that was so ubiquitous on Monster, their last album. But with this new album, they seem to have much more control over the sound, without drowning out Michael Stipe’s esoteric lyrics. “The Wake-Up Bomb,” “Departure,” and “Undertow” in particular contain crisp, dominant vocals. Although R.E.M. allows the lyrics of “So Fast, So Numb” and “Leave” to fade in parts, they do not fade into unintelligible mumble as they did on Monster’s “Let Me In.”

R.E.M. contributes to the strength of New Adventures by varying its instruments and musical styles. While they improve on techniques begun in Monster, they venture into their musical attic, blowing off the dust.of some of their old sounds to create effective new songs. “Electrolite,” one of the best songs on the album, combines haunting piano music reminiscent of “Nightswimming” with the rhythm of “Man on the Moon” to create a musical landscape evocative of the song’s subject, a starry ride up L.A.’s Mulholland Drive. The lyrics of “Electrolite” could hold the idea behind the title of the album: New Adventures in Hi-Fi — new adventures in old forms. “Electrolite” waxes nostalgic (in lines like “I’m Steve McQueen, I’m Jimmy Dean,”) but also looks to the future when Stipe tells the 20th century “go and sleep/ You’re Pleistocene.” The lyrics, if read metamusically, reflect R.E.M.’s need to use their old sounds, but take them one step further. In “E-Bow the Letter,” the first release from the album, Michael Stipe conversationally delivers lyrics as he did in “Country Feedback,” while the voice of Patti Smith mystifies the listener. This song seems to be more of a progression from albums like Automatic for the People and Out of Time than Monster. Although the musical roots lie with the latter two albums, the song has a refined seriousness which would make it very much out of place on either of those albums. One could never put “E-Bow the Letter” alongside inane songs like “Shiny Happy People.”

Other songs worth noting include: “Bittersweet Me,” which alternates different guitar sounds, developing a sound which ends up being a cross between their early songs and songs from Monster. Some of the album’s weaknesses include too much reliance on instrumental repetition as the background for a few of the songs. Although this technique works in “Departure” and “Binky the Doormat” where repetition is the driving force for the song, it does not work as well in “Be Mine.” Perhaps the pace of that song is too languid for too much repetition. In “Leave” the violent fire-alarm-like repetition emerges forcefully after a tender acoustic introduction. The annoying repetition fades into the background, but the song would be much more effective without it.

In their new album, R.E.M. does a good job of gathering its strengths and taking them one step further. The result is a thoroughly enjoyable album, which will satisfy fans of any era of R.E.M.’s music. At the same time, the album would make a great introduction to anyone new to R.E.M.

Nutritional Supplements
Aromatherapy
Natural Health Emporium
21316 Davidson St, Cornelius, NC
(704) 896-0089
OPEN: Mon-Fri 10am-6pm, Sat 10am-4pm

At the Clubs — Music in two hours or less — COMPILED BY CLAY COFER

Monday, Sept. 16
Double Door: Jim Brock, Rick Blackwell, Johnny Alexander, Charles Hairston, & Joe Lindsey
Rainbow Deli (Cornelius): Green Eggs and Jam
Ziggy’s, Winston Salem: Me’shell Ndegeocello

Tuesday, Sept. 17
Pterodactyl: 80’s Dance night
Mythos: College night - Techno
Double Door: Doubting Thomas
Tremont: Man Or Astro Man?
Coyote Joe’s (country): Vic Rorrer & The No Name Band
Ziggy’s (Winston Salem): Underfoot
Amos’: Bill Hanna & Ziad
Jack Straw’s: Moe

Wednesday, Sept. 18
Double Door: Terra Firma
Coyote Joe’s (country): Vic Rorrer & The No Name Band
Club 2000: College Dance Night
Comedy Zone: Todd Glass

Thursday, Sept. 19
Baha: Retro 80’s Dance Night
Double Door: Frantic Flattops & Glenmont Popes
Comedy Zone: Todd Glass
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance

Friday, Sept. 20
Double Door: The Extraordinaires
Comedy Zone: Todd Glass
Baha: Rave Night
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance

Saturday, Sept. 21
Double Door: Anson Funderburgh & The Rockets W/ Sam Myers
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance
Comedy Zone: Todd Glass
Tremont: Jump Starts (Ska Nite)

Sunday, Sept. 22
Double Door: In Concert: Sapphire (9 pm)
Comedy Zone: Todd Glass
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Free dance lessons at 8:30pm (Salsa & Meringue!)

Club #’s
Double Door Inn: 376-1446
Jack Straw’s: 347-8960
Blockbuster Pavilion: 337-2883
Baha: 525-3343
Coyote Joe’s: 399-4946
Tremont Music Hall: 343-9494
Amos’: 527-6611
Comedy Zone: 568-4242

Happy Birthday, Naked Lew!

Yearbook Wanted: Business Manager
Interested? Contact Shelley at x6620 or Kerry at 895-2014