THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING

Blowin’ in the Windy City

HOROSCOPE

Wind Ensemble sacrifices Spring Break for cold trek

By Jay Hupson
Staff Writer

Spring Break heralds the arrival of the wind ensemble’s annual spring tour. The spring tour enables all 37 members of the Davidson College Wind Ensemble to gallivant around the country performing concerts in churches and high schools. Every member of the group sacrificed their Spring Break to bus around the country in order to receive a day and a half in Chicago, almost completely paid for by Davidson College.

Our trip began on Friday, March 1st, when the ensemble congregated outside of Cunningham Performing Arts Center to board a coach bus which would serve as home for the week. Our bus driver, Bob, did not have any sense of direction, and would have gotten lost several times if not for the watchful eyes of Dr. William Lawing, our wind ensemble conductor.

The first night we drove to Elkin. From there, we traveled through the Appalachian mountains to Fairmont and then trekked to Culver, Indiana. Unfortunately, we arrived 45 minutes late for our concert, due mostly to the fact that nobody in the band, including a resident of Culver, knew whether Culver belonged in the Eastern Standard Time Zone or the Central Standard Time Zone.

From Culver we drove to Chicago and received our bribe for going on spring tour. On the final night of tour we performed in Lexington, Kentucky. We then completed our tour by returning to Davidson, Thursday afternoon, March 7th.

The major incentive for going on tour was the free time spent in Chicago. As I walked around Chicago, I kept thinking about last year’s tour when the group I was with was almost mugged and sexually assaulted in New York City. Fortunately, Chicago proved much safer than New York City; nothing of this sort occurred on this year’s tour.

Chicago contains its fair share of tourist attractions, and many members of the ensemble took advantage of them. Chicago boasts several world-class museums and one of the best orchestras in the United States. Two of the highlights of the Museum of Science and Industry were a man and a woman who had been sliced into vertical and horizontal cross-sections; one could flip through their bodies as if reading a book. The other major attraction for the band was The Art Institute of Chicago. Besides its countless examples of priceless art, the museum contained the old Chicago stock exchange trading room, which had been transplanted from its original site.

In the evening, some fortunate members of the ensemble took advantage of student rush tickets and heard the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, featuring the world-renowned tuba player Gene Pokorny. Pokorny led the orchestra in a rousing performance of Dmitri Shostakovich’s Symphony #5.

After about fifteen hundred miles on the road, most band members were ecstatic upon returning to Davidson. Most enjoyed the spring tour, but it was nice to get back home.

M-I-C-K-E.... FLAT

The Davidson Concert Choir takes time out of a rigorous schedule to pose with their favorite Disney friends. The choir spent their Spring Break singing in Florida.

Disney World

Organ from page 10

chapter of the American Guild of Organists and has been published frequently in Reformed Liturgy and Music. Cain’s program consisted of repertoire mostly from the Baroque era, due to the mass amounts of music written specifically for the clavichord during this era. The pieces ranged in genre from a concerto, two chorales, and virtuosic pieces such as a Voluntary and Fantasie.

The program started with a Voluntary No. 5 in G Major by William Walond (1725-70). The second piece written by Handel (1685-1759) was a Concerto in F Major, op. 4 no. 4, featuring Cain as the soloist, and members of the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra as the orchestral ensemble. The next two pieces were by J.S. Bach (1685-1750), a composer notorious for his virtuosic keyboard pieces. The first of the two Bach pieces was a Prelude and Fugue in B minor, the second Abide with...us Lord Jesus Christ and Praise to the Lord, the Almighty from Two Schuebler Chorales. The closing piece was an intriguing work by Mozart (1756-1791), K. 608. It was originally written for mechanical organ in Vienna. The original plates of the mechanical action organ which Mozart played may be used for insight into new artistic interpretations, such as Cain’s excellent rendition. The organ is often considered an accompanying instrument to sacred services, but with the brilliant concert given by Cain, we are reminded of the instrument’s virtuosic and expressive capabilities.

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1996 - By Dorcas AND MADGE Consulting Astrologists

Capricorn (December 22-January 19)— Don’t you wish that you had a prehensile tail? Since that is not possible—we have not seen one since V: The Final Chapter™—do something else to attract attention to yourself this week. Love site: where your prehensile tail would be.

Aquarius (January 20-February 18)— Reviving “Rock Me Amadeus” would be beneficial for you will be a Su-su-su-su-Superstar, Superstar). Captain Cave-Maaaaaaaaaaan will bring you the Chicken of the Sea™. Love site: Sparrow’s Nest.

Pisces (February 19-March 20)— Use your Diner’s Club International card at the Commons (they accept it now as a tribute to Telly Savalas). Beware of lapsing into a psychogenic fugue; stress levels are at an all-time high at the present moment. Love site: Knobloch Indoor Tennis Center.

Aries (March 21-April 19)— A small, furry creature will bring you pestilence and plague (Bubonic). Able was I, ere I saw Elba. Leitmotif: palindromes. Love site: McConnell House.

Taurus (April 20-May 20)— Nostradamus predicted that you would be angst-ridden on Thursday. He has been right about a lot of stuff (i.e. The Wizard of Menlo Park). Erogenous zone: brain. Love site: Menlo Park.

Gemini (May 21-June 20)— Play the oboe, but get a new reed. Beware of wine containing sulfites. C3PO™ is underrated. You have to get an AT-AT Walker™, Star Wars™ was and is real. Love match: Male—Boba Fett™, Female—Admiral Ackbar™. Love site: Jabba’s™ Hut.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)— Keep rockin’ the house down! Your life only gets better. A legendary creature enters your dorm room. Treat him/her cordially. Love match: anyone you want. Love site: Anywhere.

Leo (July 23-August 22)— Take care of your baking needs. Carpe diem. Canis mortus est. Every time that you move keep vectors in mind. There is no such thing as “centrifugal” force, okay? Love site: WDAV, Classical 89.9 F.M. (McMillan Building).

Virgo (August 23-September 22)— It’s Friday night and the lights are low—70s party happens more than once a year: Do the Hustle. Do a little dance. That’s the way (uh-huh, uh-huh) I like it (uh-huh, uh-huh). Love site: Studio 54.

Libra (September 23-October 22)— Aspire to become a noted frontiersman. Stop channeling Moon Zappa. Start channeling Dweezil. We mean it. Love site: Development Offices (in the Henry Louis Smith House).

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)— Don’t live your life in slo-mo. The benevolent west wind, Zéphyrus, blows this week. Take full advantage of it. Visit the Tom Clark Museum pronto. Love site: Tom Clark Museum.

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21)— Start bootlegging. There is a great speakeasy on N.C. 115 South. Visit it often, but don’t tell anyone about it. Love site: speakeasy. Erogenous zone: taste buds.

Remember, Recycle!

Mexico/Caribbean $189 RT Europe $169 OW & Domestic Destinations Cheap!!! IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE PRICES START YOUR OWN DAMN AIRLINE. Air-Tech, Ltd. 212/219-7000 info@acrotech.com http://campus.nevaerotech

CARIBOU COFFEE

LOOKING FOR A CHALLENGING, REWARDING, EXCITING CAREER WITH AN UP AND COMING COMPANY?? CARIBOU COFFEE IS LOOKING FOR HIGHLY ENERGETIC, HARD WORKING INDIVIDUALS LIKE YOURSELF! Stop by one of our Charlotte Locations Today to pick up an application or call: 1.800 BOU HIRE **Great Benefits! **Management In Training positions! **Full Time and Part Time positions! LIFE IS SHORT....ENJOY WHAT YOU DO!

SYRACUSE STUDY ABROAD

SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY OFFERS
- Unmatched academic programs
- Internships with world-class firms
- Business courses in three countries
- Generous grants and scholarships
- Placement in foreign universities
- Instruction in English or host-country language

ITALY • ENGLAND • FRANCE • HONG KONG • SPAIN • ZIMBABWE

Syracuse University Study Abroad
119 Euclid Avenue • Syracuse, NY 13244-4170
1-800-235-3472 • DIPA@suadmin.syr.edu