THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1996

Taub tickles the ivories

By Susan Ruggiero
Arts and Living Editor

Robert Taub, winner of some of the most coveted international prizes in piano performance, will share his talent with the
Davidson community on November 7 and 8 in Hodson Hall. At 8 p.m. on the 7th, he will be performing
Beethoven’s Sonata in D minor, as well as his Sonata in B-flat major, written for the Hammerklavier. In addition to
that recital, he will also be speaking to middle school students and Davidson College’s Music in Western Civilization class on
the 8th, as well as giving a master class for piano students, in which four students will also perform.

Taub, who received the highest award in piano from The Juilliard School, has performed at Lincoln Center, the Kennedy Center,
and Avery Fisher Hall. He is a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Princeton where he was a University Scholar. The
pianist is a Steinway Artist and is currently recording the complete Beethoven Sonata cycle. He has performed with the San
Francisco Symphony, Philadelphia Orchestra, Los Angeles Philharmonic, Montreal Symphony, BBC Philharmonic, and Hong Kong Philharmonic. He has performed throughout the
United States, Europe, the Far East, and Latin America, and was highlighted by The New York Times in their year-end
review “Year in the Arts.”

He has given world premieres in Los Angeles and London, of which the concerto from the former won the 1990
Pulitzer Prize. Taub’s repertoire embraces music from the Baroque era to the present day, and he has been chosen by
contemporary American composers to create their music. Taub has been honored since 1994 as the Artist-in-Residence for the Institute for
Advanced Study.

Sleep from page 10

...well as take advantage of some of their own homemade rules. The speaker, one of the two boys who went
into the home thinking of one day being a priest, clings onto his religion in a sort of in-the-viewer’s-face way,
which could be too harsh, but is warranted given the enormity of the atrocities he and his friends suffer. The
transition from life in Wilkinson to 1981 is well done. Not only do clothing and music change as the characters
age, but the tiniest background details do as well — it was interesting to see label names on drug store
items change with the time.

The four boys became men scarred by their experiences as sleepers — two are criminals; the speaker is a low
man on the totem pole for a newspaper, and the fourth is a lawyer with a plan relying on a
Mafia kingpin, a drug lord, police corruption, and broken clergy vows, all of which are prevalent in New York, but
subtracted from the reality of a supposedly true story. When the two criminals encounter a guard responsible for their torture,
they are finally in a position to retaliate. A trial results in which all the characters play a part and
Father Bobby faces his decision.

As an avid fan of criminology, I thoroughly...Enjoyed the movie. I was disappointed only by the form of revenge taken—I
wanted more torture, but I am also far too intrigued by Charles Manson and his cronies. My brother, on the
other hand, finds it hard to recommend the movie because of its gore. I concede by saying that it isn’t
for everyone; it includes very brutal acts that are sometimes a reality in poorly supervised boys’ homes, run by perverted
guards with way too much power. It doesn’t leave the viewer necessarily uplifted—it mixes the ending scene of the four
friends reminiscing with their ever-loyal female companion with the bloody, decomposing bodies of two of the men—but the viewer is
warned of the outcome at the beginning, as well as by hints of the brutality that are to follow.

North Carolina State University! Sapper Join Us for Graduate Studies!
® PhD, MS, and MCS curricula
® Energetic, growing faculty and graduate student body
® Full financial support available
® Bright employment outlook in one of America's best places to live
® CS minors and non-majors eligible
® Attuned to industry's research needs

For more information:
NCSU Box 8207, Raleigh NC 27695
(919) 515-2654
graduate@csc.ncsu.edu
http://www.csc.ncsu.edu/graduate

Visit Herman, a state-of-the-art animated intelligent agent, at the IntelliMedia Initiative homepage: http://multimedia.csc.ncsu.edu

Coffee in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. Jumpin’ Java will provide you with good company and Coffeehouse will
wake you up in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m. VOTE!!! Jumpin’ Java gets you ready to study
(or sleep) in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. Twenty-one Year Old Night is where you will find the
upperclassmen in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

AVCSHOALL p.m. Union Conference Room 9:30 p.m. - 11 p.m.

WEDNESDAY
Leaving Las Vegas will be showing in the 900 Room 9:30
Chess Club challenges your concentration skills in the Crop
Lunch serves you in the 900 Room 11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m.
Robert Taub, pianist, will perform a recital as part of the Concert Series in Hodson Hall 8 p.m.
Michael Stoops speaks in the 900 Room. Coffeehouse perks you up in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m.
F.A.C. Pub will be in the 900 Room 4:30 p.m. - 8 p.m.
Leaving Las Vegas will be shown again (for those who missed it on Wednesday) in the 900 Room 8 p.m.
- 10 p.m.
Michael Stoops, head of the National Coalition for the Homeless, will be speaking in the Home Room 8 p.m.
Box Sleepout will take place on Chambers Lawn after
FLAG Fashion Show is always a highlight of the year and will be held in Chambers Gallery 8 p.m.
Games Night featuring an open microphone and much more will take place in the 900 Room 9 p.m. - midnight.
Ask about it at the front desk of the Union. 12:30 a.m.
Jumpin’ Java begins the week in the Outpost 8 p.m.
FLAG Fashion Show in Chambers Gallery 8 p.m.
Saturday, November the 9th
