2 _ THE DAVIDSONIAN

SGA Chancellor Adam Hickey resigns

Adam Hickey, who served as SGA Chancellor for one semester last year, submitted a letter of resignation to SGA President Warren Buford in August. Hickey, who would be a sophomore at Davidson this year, said he will not return to Davidson this fall and is instead attending Harvard University. Hickey’s resignation from the Chancellor position halfway through his term has left Buford in search of a replacement. Said Buford, “We are actively seeking those interested in the position — and we’re confident we will find a suitable replacement.” SGA Chancellor is the only paid position in Davidson’s SGA, and includes an $800 salary for a full year — the new chancellor will receive around $400. The chancellor distributes minutes, handles finances, and serves as an adviser to the president and vice president.

Computer Services to offer student Web Pages

This fall, Davidson will join the ranks of many other colleges and universities across the nation in providing its students the opportunity to create their own web pages. Computer Center employees said they are in the process of developing an instruction sheet on how to create a personal web page. These instructions, they said, should be completed and made available to students in the coming weeks.

Freshman and Independent SGA elections soon

Elections for Freshmen Senators will be held Monday, September 16. Six open freshmen seats in the Student Government Association (SGA) will be filled. Sophomore John Bell, Chair of the Elections Council, explained that “the top vote-getter among the freshmen Senators will become the Freshman Class President.” Freshmen interested in running for a position in Student Government should look for fliers and ads announcing details of the election sign-ups, located in the Dean of Students’ Office. Sign-ups will begin Thursday, September 5, and will continue until the following Tuesday, when active campaigning begins. Bell explained that the SGA decided to “move the election date back a week,” so that freshmen may better familiarize themselves with their classmates. Independent elections for upperclassmen will also be held Sept. 16 as well, but the sign-up deadline is Sept. 12. Freshmen with questions may call Bell at 6165.

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1996

Spontaneously combust. Visit The Davidsonian office. Write for John, Mary Clare, Teresa, Kirsten, Randy, Kristen, Emily, Susan, Will, Mike, Caroline ... —2148

Welcome back Davidson College students!

104 South Main Street
THE SOP’S SHOE
Est. 1951
Davidson, North Carolina
896-7743
Open 7 Days
Breakfast Daily Until 11:30
Mon-Wed 8-8
Thurs, Fri & Sat 8-9
Sunday 9-8

NEWS

In focus ...

NEW PROFESSORS

Dave Robb: Philosophy is more than you expect

By JENNIFER STARR
Staff Writer

Dr. Dave Robb is Davidson's new Visiting Professor of Philosophy on a one-year appointment. Although he is new to Davidson, he is not new to this area of the country. Robb, a Chattanooga native and a graduate of The McCallie School says, “I was raised in the South so it is nice to be down here for another year.” Impressed by Davidson’s warm weather and friendly people, Robb has formed a favorable impression of the school although he has only been here a few weeks.

James Najarian:

By DANIELLE MILES
Staff Writer

“I like to talk...” admitted James Najarian, Davidson’s new Visiting Assistant Professor of English. Words in general fascinate Najarian, who always knew he would be a good teacher and gained a chance to prove himself during his second year in graduate school. At that time he began a career that would take him around the country — even around the globe — and allow him to share his talents with thousands of college students. Najarian grew up on a small farm in central Pennsylvania, a limiting experience as far as travel. “Cows and goats really tie you down,” Najarian explained. Isolation in a small town for most of his life inspired a burning desire to expand his horizons and led him to apply to and be accepted by Yale University for his undergraduate studies.

Kristi Multhaup:

By ALEX OBREGON
Staff Writer

Among the many new faces around campus this fall is that of Professor Kristi Multhaup, who joins Davidson’s Psychology Department. Multhaup comes to Davidson from Duke University and is presently teaching Introduction to Psychology and The Psychology of Aging. Originally from Minnesota, Multhaup completed her undergraduate degree at Gustavus Adolphus College in Minnesota. Robb said he likes “the smaller school atmosphere. A big school can be impersonal... Here it’s more likely.”When you see someone that where he served as a teacher assistant, you will know them.” Like many students, Robb offered these words of wisdom for current students considering a philosophy course: “For most students, it’s not what they expect. Philosophy, as usually taught in the United States, involves lots of logic. It is much closer to math and science than to English and the other humanities.”

“Philosophy is hard,” he said, “I don’t mean that to be intimidating, but when you come into a philosophy course you should expect to think hard about things.” When he is not teaching philosophy or thinking, Robb can be found running, playing tennis, playing basketball, watching movies, or playing the guitar.

“Why is this phrase here?” studies. Upon entering college, Najarian was a “far too serious eighteen-year-old,” according to his own description, who liked the Yale teaching style’s emphasis on self-study from textbooks. At Yale, throughout his years as an undergraduate and graduate student, Najarian was involved in a variety of literary and social activities, especially with outside writing and editing. He edited the Scholarly Journal and financed his college education through freelance editing. Although he explained, “I know I did things outside of English,” English was obviously his first priority.

After Yale, Najarian shared his teaching talents with classes of Orthodox-Jewish men at Yeshiva in New York City, stimulated the minds of the young women at Barnard, and explored the wonders of the English language with international students at Polytechnic University. He even taught English courses in Slovakia in 1994. Of this international teaching experience, he recalled the excitement of living in the midst of a huge transitional period in that country. He left only days before Slovakia’s elections.

In his teaching, Najarian hopes to combine the methods of two teachers who had the most profound impact on him during his college years: one quiet and “picky” about details; the other entertaining, able to improvise a speech on any subject and spice his lectures with humor. Professor Najarian’s own philosophy is to watch for phrases or subjects that seem oddly placed and ask: “Why is this phrase here?”

Away from the classroom, Najarian enjoys an odd musical combination of classical composers like Tchaikovsky and alternative music such as Nirvana. This music, he said, provides a background while he is running around campus or working out in the weight rooms at Baker. Najarian admitted that he would like to return to Central Europe someday (where he could make good use of his German and Slovak language skills) but is quick to avoid any specific plans for the future. As he explained, “One tries not to have plans in this field.”

A fresh face in the psychology department, Multhaup completed her graduate studies at Gustavus. She later completed her graduate work at Princeton University. Along with her studies, Multhaup has done extensive research in the field of psychology at the University of Minnesota, Washington University in St. Louis where she did post-doctoral research in aging, and most recently at Duke University where she completed research in aging memory and taught a course in human memory.

What attracted Multhaup to Davidson was “the perfect mix between teaching and research” it offers. While teaching several courses, Multhaup is able to continue her research and help and encourage students in theirs as well. She also said that the size of the Davidson student body is beneficial in that it allows her to become better acquainted with her students. New to the Davidson community, Multhaup said she has most enjoyed the friendly welcome she has received. Impressed by the initiative and independence of her students and by Davidson’s relaxed atmosphere, she said that “there is always a good feeling on campus.” Multhaup said her plans for the future are to remain at Davidson “for the long haul.”

Tune in next week for interviews with a new crop of professors.