4 N Kristen

This summer, I spent close to a month living in London by myself. I organized my trip in this manner:
I rented a flat, bought my ticket, and left. My parents couldn’t comprehend why I wanted to go alone. “Take
your brother or go with a friend,” they said. I didn’t feel as if I were being incredibly daring going
to London alone. I was born there, lived there, spent the semester abroad there, so it wasn’t as if I
would land there and have no idea what to do. An aside, having attended boarding school, this was the first
time in seven years that I had lived at home. I was willing to purchase a one-way ticket to Chad
to escape Connecticut and I certainly wanted to be alone.

I can’t say that I had an itinerary when I arrived. I imagine that this was subconscious reactionary behavior on
my part because my last voyage to Britain was in the company of Larry Ligo, a man for whom itinerary
is fun. Although I loved my art history semester from beginning to end, this trip was going to be rather
more relaxed. A few of my loosely delineated goals were to see my beloved paintings, buy a lot of shoes,
and read for my thesis. It is this reading that brings me a bit closer to my point. I had
decided that I would read some of the classics of feminist scholarship. I was terribly ashamed that, as a woman,
I had not read de Beauvoir or Greer or Millet. So I read and I got angry. Even though I
have called myself a feminist always, it has been to challenge people’s conceptions of the stereotypical feminist. In other words,
I defined myself as a feminist to eradicate the negative connotation that the word carries. This summer, I learned that
when I said I was a feminist, I meant it.

As I walked through my favorite city, I became aware of myself as a person but more aware of myself
as a woman. Men stare at women who are alone. I had never noticed stares before. I felt ashamed of
myself and uncomfortable. I thought that if I changed clothes the stares would stop. I put on jeans and an
oxford shirt. No change. This led me to believe that the lecherous stares were less about sex than they were
about hegemony and appraisal. Men’s gazes are proprietary and they are territorial. It is not because of what women wear,
our breast size, our hair or eye color, or body. My experiences are the product of a long and complicated
dynamic. The relationship between woman’s sexual power and man’s desire to harness and subdue that power became apparent to me
as being present in my life. I came to realize this through experiencing the comparative anonymity of a city where
it is possible to look but not touch and move on and remain anonymous. I suppose that I tried to
ignore staring in the past or maybe I just didn’t understand the meaning behind the gazes. But when alone, stares
are harder to ignore and they are frightening.

I read more and walked everywhere until I was so angry that I began to take taxis. But that did
not help. And it was expensive. So I walked everywhere again and I finally experienced my catharsis. I was in
Grosvenor Square in front of the American Embassy, a mere

They began scolding me almost as soon as I arrived at Magdelene College for Davidson’s Summer Programme in Cambridge, two
days late. Carol: “I am amazed. This has never happened before. We’ve never had a Davidson student like this before.”
While she counted to ten, Alison, Davidson’s other British liaison, controlled herself and merely said: “We're glad that you’ve arrived
safely, Teresa. [deep breath] Finally. [deeper breath] We’re looking forward to your explanation.” And so I told for the first
time the tale of How Teresa Loses Her Passport and Finds an Irish Wedding (sponsored in part by the Dean
Rusk Program).

It had been nearly a week since I arrived in Britain in order to study British university newspapers and meet
with a few editors, and after seven days of traveling alone without (major) mishap, I was feeling particularly proud of
myself. Having spent the morning studying several old issues of Trinity College, Dublin’s, Trinity News, I congratulated myself again as
I just caught the noon train to Limerick. “Ah, yes, Teresa. Rising bright and early and getting the job done.
Yes, Teresa, good job. You’re definitely getting it right.” Two hours later I realize that I’ve left my passport, my
BritRail pass, my traveler’s checks, and my plane tickets home at the hostel in Dublin.

So the next morning I hunt down some old issues of Limerick University’s An Focal and head to the train
station to buy my ticket back to Dublin, and I think about the James Joyce I’ve read where the characters
try and try to leave that suction city and just end up drowning in the struggle. While waiting in line
at the information desk, I meet the three guys in line behind me, who were obviously also young confused Americans.
Justin, the Crow Indian. Patrick, the I-wish-I-was-Irish-man. Rob. They’re from Connecticut. “Next please,” the big grumpy man calls. My train
leaves in two hours. Their train to Cork also leaves in two hours. We go for lunch together. Patrick invites
me to his cousin’s wedding. What? “I’m serious. Come to the wedding. My Uncle Sean, man, he’s so cool. And
my cousins Nessa and Julie — Julie’s the one getting married — I hung with them all last summer. Super-cool.
Nessa has this hair... and my Uncle Jerry. He’s like an Irish hick, can’t understand a word he says. But
they all love Americans. Serious, come with us.” And so I do. We traveled to Cork on a train full
of drunk Irishmen singing old rebel songs.and then to Innishannon, the closest town with a bed and breakfast to Castlhack.

HELL FOR BEGINNERS
A BRIEF INTRODUCTION TO THIS CARTOON FOR NEOPHYTES AND A REMEDIAL COURSE FOR THOSE WHO HAVEN'T BEEN PAYING ATTENTION

WHAT IS “LIFE IN HELL”?
WHAT ARE THE MAJOR THEMES OF THIS CARTOON?

the hamlet of 12 where Patrick’s family lives (almost half the population). Patrick’s Uncle Sean, Aunt Teresa, and cousin Nessa
invited us over and spent the evening feeding us, telling story after story, doling out Irish Cream, and letting us
marvel at Nessa’s magnificent hair, blond and curly and uncontrollable. I went to Julie’s wedding the next day and tried
to kneel and stand appropriately, tried to figure out what I didn’t understand because it was in Gaelic and what
I didn’t understand because of the priest’s thick brogue. And then at the reception, I met Uncle Jerry and the
rest of the O’Callaghans and some of the O’Sullivans of the groom’s side. And then I was complimented on my
dancing for the first time in my life. And then I camped with Patrick, Justin, and Rob on a hillside
overlooking Kinsale harbor and fell asleep under a clear sky and full moon. In Dublin, I found Joyce’s recurring nightmares.
In Kinsale, I found Yeats’ echoing dreams. What I didn’t find anywhere was good bus service on Sundays. I had
to wait until afternoon to catch the bus into Cork to catch the train to Dublin where I retrieved my
passport and ran to the dock in time to watch the last ferry to England pull away. I spent that
night in the ferry station with a bum named Mick who made his money by breathing fire. I finally arrived
in Cambridge late the next day to a welcoming committee of frantic messages from parents and furious messages from Programme
heads. Moral: like Uncle Sean said, “De Englis’, me dear, dey’re not like us.”

Senior Teresa White is the Associate Editor of The Davidsonian.

THE DAVIDSONIAN - OPINION - MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1996

Summer Luvin’

block from my flat. A revolting individual came up to me and told me his plans for our evening together.
That was it. With feminism acting as my aegis, I screamed at him. I managed some coherent and lucid sentences,
then lapsed into profanity and ended with a tidy idiomatic epithet that was lost on no one there, least of
all the visa applicants lining up outside the embassy. I felt so much better. So, I learned that the cliché-ridden
domain of angry feminism is also my own sphere. My anger hastened the coalescence of a lot of my own
fragmented ideas, concepts that, I believe, are present at least in embryonic form in all women.

Senior Kristen Richardson is a co-editor of the Opinions section of The Davidsonian.

Will Bradshaw

Smile. I wrote this down a week ago for the freshmen orientation issue, but if you're not a freshman or
don't feel particularly unoriented I still would ask you to read on. You see, I didn't feel comfortable playing the
shaman for 450 strangers who know as much about what to expect from a new year as I do. However,
I do feel comfortable playing the storyteller, and if you care to listen then please gather round.

Last year, I found myself between two friends in the parking lot of Harris Teeter’s. Actually, we were standing by
the entrance in an attempt to stay out of the drizzle which threatened to spoil our formal attire. We were
chatting about something which escapes me now, waiting. An older woman pushed her cart out the doors and began slide-stepping
her way down the slick cart ramp into the chilled night. I watched her for a moment and lost interest.
But one of my friends did not. Unasked, he sprang from his dry perch where he had been enjoying a
cigarette and stepped towards the woman saying “let me help you with that, ma’am.” She was reluctant at first, but
in moments he had the cart in his hands and they were locked in a conversation. After placing the groceries
in her trunk, he helped her into the car and waved goodbye. Then he pushed the cart back up the
ramp and reclaimed his post next to us. We said nothing. After lighting up a fresh cigarette and taking a
slow drag off it he offered one simple and amazing explanation for his actions. “I always try to leave people
with a smile.” That was all. That doesn't have anything to do with orientation, that's why you are seeing it
now, but since that night it has had much to do with life for me. The woman at the grocery,
she did smile.

Will Bradshaw is a co-Sports Editor for The Davidsonian.

Grow a spine. Call Kristen or Nina -2148. Write for Opinions.
