THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING - MONDAY, MARCH 25, 1996

Cravin’ Dogs mark their rock territory with El Camino
By WILL FOY
Staff Writer

Bluesy distorted rockabilly with melodic excellence and vocal harmony is the oversimplification I'd make about Vienna, VA’s Cravin’ Dogs. Their 1994 release El Camino opens with such a song, “Liquor Store” and closes with a punkish, yet still consistent with the primary rockabilly, blues-drenched style. Sensitive vocals with interesting harmonies of both vocal and electric violin permeate almost every track. Caldwell Gray’s vocal style is akin to that of Todd Park Mohr of Big Head Todd and the Monsters, and some of the songs on El Camino are reminiscent of the Monsters’ most recent album Strategem.

Persistent guitars, lots of distortion, and a mixture of almost melancholy ballads, all support the parallel, as well as songs like “Treadmill” that make a listener want to scream “Grrrrrrr” occasionally. Percussion follows a standard beat, rarely changing or improvising away from standard rhythms. Likewise, the bass follows a similar trek to monotony. These two facts do not detract from the talent in arranging such simple structures into interesting songs. It doesn’t hurt them to have some really fun, upbeat songs, that almost bring one to two-step or conversely to waltz. Also, production and advice from the Empty’s Doug Derryberry at Rutabega Studios can only help them.

Violin is used as harmony, filling melody, and primary melody, while electric guitars are used as rhythm and lead. The lead guitar follows the sort of country twang expected in rockabilly, but without being an annoyance. While their lyrics don’t really make social commentaries, the songs break from serious reflection into fun tunes about people, loves lost or won, or a truck. Who says a song can’t be written about a truck, or Cravin’ Dogs’ El Camino? It’s a good addition to a CD collection, and a good way to learn to like country if you don’t. This band will grow on you like a pleasant fungus, and you’ll want to purchase their next CD due out later this spring.

Movie Review
The Birdcage soars in audience reviews
By EP ACLE
Staff Writer

Robin Williams cracks me up. I’m not really sure why this is the case—perhaps my Mork and Mindy addiction at an early age has permanently skewed my perception of all his films. As you read this review, please keep that in mind, because I think The Birdcage is one of the funniest films that I have seen come out of Hollywood in a long time.

It is not the most terribly original film ever created. The Birdcage is a remake of La Cage Aux Folles, a late 70s French film which was quite popular at the time. These films work on two fundamental comedic devices that have been used for many a century: the meeting (or, more accurately, collision) between two disparate worlds and appearance of something which ends up exactly opposite of how it first appeared.

The two films concern themselves with a male gay couple whose son has come home from college. Upon arrival at home, the son announces that he has become engaged to the daughter of an ultra-conservative member of the government. The son’s fiancée and her family are coming down to meet the couple, believing that their future son-in-law has two conservative heterosexual parents. This sets the stage for a hilarious farce where the couple attempts to fool the conservative parents that they are conservative and heterosexual.

The acting in the film is excellent on all counts. Gene Hackman and Diane West are suitably Pat Buchanan-ish, and Dan Futterman (who shares a more than passing resemblance to freshman Matt King) acts well as Val, the homosexual couple’s son. Nathan Lane plays the part of Albert, the “wife” in the homosexual arrangement,with quite flamboyant flair. Despite all of his co-stars’ more eccentric turns, Robin Williams remains the center of the show as Armand, the “husband” of the gay couple. He is the film’s comedic center upon which everyone must revolve. His part may not be as flamboyant as Lane’s, nor as Archie Bunker-ish as Hackman, but he finds the comedic element in it. It is more of a subtle, nuanced performance, but without it the film would not have been a success. Mike Nichols, the director, has turned in a film which works on all fronts. From the first helicopter shot of Miami Beach that leads us right into the club “The Birdcage” (owned by Albert and Armand), we know that the film will be technically proficient. The beach scenes of Miami Beach are jazzed up (not everyone wears a thong on Miami Beach, contrary to popular opinion) and the gay nightclub scenes are toned down but that is to be expected. The script is not new, but it is a successful American take on the original. This bird has wings. (Grade: A-)

Sign up for Angels in America tickets at the Union Desk.

By Dorcas AND MADGE Consulting Astrologists

Aries (March 21-April 19)—In the morning, in the evening, ain’t you got fun. Never consider naming anything or anyone “Dolly Lightfoot” (especially a boat). That means that you have to say it and you will sound stupid. Lucky place: the Big Red Boat/FunShip cruise.

Taurus (April 20-May 20)—Watch out, bull! The new comet is zooming toward your room. Building a fallout shelter might be wise. If you live through the collision, you will have an incredible week. Lucky place: not your room.

Gemini (May 21-June 20)—Jif is better than Skippy. If you do not believe the stars, conduct your own blindfold taste test. Peter Pan is a farce. Look into alprostadil. It is the wonder drug! Lucky place: the doctor’s office, or the Harris Teeter.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)—Reminisce about that fateful night you crossed the Rio Grande. Those good times can be reclaimed. Lucky rock group: Abba—check out track #12 on Abba Gold. Lucky place: Australia or anywhere else.

Leo (July 23-August 22)—Commence your search for the Missing Link. This is an annus mirabilis, like 1666, 1492, 1066, etc. (all dates C.E.). Lucky rock group: Rolling Stones.

Virgo (August 23-September 22)—Are you alright? Are you O.K.? You, born under the sign of Virgo, call 911! You’ve got a pulse; you're breathing. Do something! Lucky class: P.E. 101, class on CPR.

Libra (September 23-October 22)—Explore the civilizations of the Ancient Near East. The Phoenicians really were great shipbuilders. In fact, get in touch with all of your primordial roots. Hunt! Gather! Forage! Lucky place: any henge.

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)—The “I-am-rubber-you-are-glue” rule is not in effect this week. In fact, everything that people say about you this week is true. That is not necessarily bad. Lucky rock group: Igneous.

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21)—Get your P.A.D.L. certificate. The McGuire Nuclear Power Plant has yielded new forms of “wild” life in Loch Norman that you really must see. Tally-ho! Lucky song: “Yellow Submarine.” Lucky Cartoon: Snorks.

Capricorn (December 22-January 19)—Do not shed the tears of a clown this week. We know what you do when no one is around. Sad, sad, sad; sad. You have reason to be happy. Lucky singer: Smokey Robinson.

Aquarius (January 20-February 18)—Have a picnic! The weather is getting warmer; the stars are aligning. Rock with it all night long! Lucky place: M Trading Co., Freedom Drive, Charlotte. Call Hotline for directions.

Pisces (February 19-March 20)—Stop trying to imitate Rocky the Squirrel. You can’t do it: No one can. Spend your time pursuing more meaningful things. Volunteer for psychology experiments. Lucky place: Hershey Suite.

Call 1-900-PALM-RED to have Dorcas and Madge tell you the future.

House for Rent!
829 B Shearer Street in Davidson
- 1000 square foot house with 3 bedrooms and 2 baths
- Year lease starting August 1
- $900/month + security deposit
Call 896-8447