SPORTS 14 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1996

Kruse’s Cubby

I still hate the Panthers

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

In last Tuesday’s Observer, Panthers offensive tackle Blake Brockermeyer was quoted as saying, “We’re not going to go 16-0. I
can almost promise you that. We’ll lose a game, and probably two.”

Almost, Mr. Brockermeyer? A game? Probably two? Like he evidently does to everything else he encounters, Brockermeyer ended up eating
his words in a big way yesterday, as the highly touted, used-to-be-undefeated Panthers Express came crashing to the ground in
a fiery heap of twisted metal, losing to their expansion brethren Jacksonville Jaguars. And I’ve got a feeling that yesterday’s
loss will ultimately serve merely as an appetizer. The entree is yet to come. And don’t forget dessert...

Was anyone watching the 49ers-Falcons game yesterday afternoon near the end of the first half when John Madden turned in
the greatest incoherent (perhaps drunken), rambling discourse in the history of sportscasting, each comment more ridiculously absurd and idiotic than
the one before it? And he wasn’t even talking about football. As the blimp-cam showed a tiny rock-like island in
San Francisco Bay, he began talking about seals. And the rock. And fish. And fishermen competing with the seals for
the fish. And as John Madden usually does, he seized the occasion to use the telestrator to the penultimate. You
know. The chalkboard thingy. He circled the rock, labeled the seals on the rock with X’s and then demonstrated exactly
how the seals go after the fish. This went on for minutes. Meanwhile, the Niners were recovering from their little
Carolina debacle by abusing the pathetic Falcons. But that hardly mattered. Madden was speaking. And I was listening....

The men’s soccer team plays all its games at Richardson Field. The women’s soccer team is often relegated to their
own little personal field behind the senior apartments near the IMAC fields. Seeing as this is the case, why doesn’t
the women’s basketball team play the majority of their contests in Johnston Gym? Or more appropriately, why does the women’s
soccer team ever not play at Richardson? This from a school that refuses to send cheerleaders to away football games
apparently because there’s no female equivalent of football for which they could also cheer. Champions of gender equity. That we
are.

Women’s soccer sits atop conference

By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

The women’s soccer team came home to the friendly confines of Richardson Field last Wednesday and broke out of their
scoring drought by beating App. St. 3-1. Finishing three goals against the Mountaineers (2-7, 1-2) didn’t just up the Wildcats'
record to 4-4, 2-0 in the conference, it proved this team could score.

“Three goals seem like a million today. It allows us to relax a bit and actually play,” coach Kevin Hundley
said. “We’ve played so close (so far this season). That wears on the front players who press to score, and
makes our backs cautious. Soccer is a game that if you play too tight you don’t play as well as
you’re capable.”

And no one appreciates the extra goals more than goalkeeper Allison Noznesky. “We started taking chances tonight. (Everyone) saw how
many times their keeper had to come out on the ground. That hasn’t happened at all this year, and it’s
good. It means we’re jumping on every loose ball in the box,” she said.

Amy Kanoff started the Wildcat barrage in the 18th minute. Ginny Dye hit a cross from the left flank that
Lucia Plosser tried to settle at the six. Plosser knocked it out to an onrushing Kanoff who ripped a volley
from 30 yards out that beat Mountaineer keeper Kelley Guinn. But Kanoff’s goal was the only scoring the Wildcats could
muster in the first half despite outshooting the Mountaineers 10-1 and dominating the play.

After the break, the Wildcats continued to control the game and put it out of reach with a flurry of
goals in the middle of the period. Dye got behind the defense in the 56th minute with a through ball
from Plosser. She carried it to the top of the penalty area...where she chipped Guinn to finish her team-leading fourth
goal and her third game-winner. Five minutes later, Amy Balsinger ended any Mountaineer hopes of a comeback. Dye hit a
shot that Guinn was able to dive and deflect, but Balsinger rushed onto the ball and headed it into the
now-empty net.

“A lot of people on the team were very frustrated, especially after losing to Charleston (2-1, last weekend) when we
had outshot them,” said a team member.

See Women Page 16

Time runs out on Homecoming

Anna Judy

Wildcat defenders, led by Shreve Ariail and Wes Thornton, swarm J.D. Davis of Emory & Henry.

By AARON DUNHAM
Staff Writer

Saturday afternoon at Richardson Field was almost a fairytale. Homecoming festivities, a crowd of over three thousand, and the spirit
of the home opener were all motivational tools for Davidson in its showdown with the Emory & Henry Wasps, ranked
18th nationally in Division II. The Wildcats ultimately came up short, falling 24-17, to their bigger, stronger opponents in an
exciting game which proved the team is turning the corner.

“The previous three years coming in, we had been beaten (by Emory & Henry) by a combined score of 80-7,”
head coach Tim Landis told the Charlotte Observer. “We were shut out twice. So today I’m real proud of the
guys.”

The Wildcats, clearly undersized against an Emory & Henry offensive line that averaged 278 pounds, continued to fight back until
the end. After falling behind 14-3 at halftime, Jay Ariail recovered a fumble inside the Wasps' territory, giving Davidson solid
field position. Tommy Dugan marched the Wildcats down the field and found freshman fullback Eric Ferguson on a 7-yard flare
pass to cut the margin to 14-10 early in the third quarter.

After Emory & Henry added another touchdown and a field goal, Davidson looked to be out of the game. But
reserve quarterback Matt Strader had other ideas, driving the Wildcats 72 yards and lofting a 28-yard touchdown pass to Kirk
Roberts. Strader, in his first action of the season, completed 4-of-4 passes for 62 yards on the scoring drive.

“I was just thankful to get the opportunity,” said Strader. “I think if we had had two more minutes, we
could’ve won the game. I truly believe that. I think we could have driven the ball down the field.”

After a Davidson onsides kick attempt failed, Emory & Henry ran the final 57 seconds out.

“We didn’t give up,” said Roberts. “We kept fighting until the end.”

But the determination of Davidson was not enough to overcome the Wasp rushing attack, which rolled for 321 total yards,
including 142 by tailback J.D. Davis. Davidson was held to an anemic 64 rushing yards. The Wildcat defense was able
to counter by forcing two critical turnovers though, keying offensive opportunities.

“Our defense played really well and gave our offense several chances to score,” said Ferguson. “We were just unable to
score in key situations.”

Despite the 1-2 start, the team is still positive.

“Coach Landis told us that if we keep playing like we have been, there is no reason why we can’t
go 8-2,” Ferguson added.

Men’s soccer drops three straight, falls to 6-6

By DanteL Motz
Copy Editor

After starting the season with an impressive 5-1 mark, the men’s soccer team has lost five of their last six.
On Tuesday, 20th-ranked UNC Greensboro blasted a hapless Davidson team. After playing a scoreless first half in which the Wildcats
outshot the Spartans, 7-6, Davidson virtually disappeared in the second. Led by a Jeremy Fedor hat trick, UNCG ran off
five unanswered goals.

“It’s very disconcerting when we outplay our opponent (like we did tonight in the first half), but are unable to
find the back of the net,” said head coach Charlie Slagle. “We’re creating the opportunities but we’ve got to concentrate
on taking advantage of them.”

Host Davidson suffered their first defeat at home and seemed to give up after the first Spartan goal scored with
33:48 left in the game.

“We didn’t show the character that we needed to after giving up the first goal,” said Slagle. “Good teams are
able to come back from a deficit, and tonight we didn’t.”

See Men Page 16
