6 THE DAVIDSONIAN ELSEWHERE

Week in Washington: Congress revives health reform

By David Santschi
Washington Week Correspondent

In the broadest health care legislation since Medicare was created in 1965, the Senate on Tuesday passed a bill that would mandate health insurance portability and coverage for pre-existing medical conditions. The 100-0 vote was hailed by the bill’s chief sponsors, Sen. Edward Kennedy (D-MA) and Sen. Nancy Kassenbaum (R-KS), as “a constructive step forward, a step that will help millions of Americans.”

The bill has two major provisions. First, employees who switch jobs would be guaranteed health insurance coverage under their new employer if their previous job provided insurance. Second, the waiting period to obtain coverage for pre-existing medical conditions would be reduced to one year. The General Accounting Office estimates that 25 to 30 million Americans would be affected by this legislation.

The bill will face challenges in conference, where it must be reconciled with the House version, which contains more sweeping changes. The House bill would allow people to establish tax-free medical savings accounts to pay for routine medical services if they also purchased high-deductible catastrophic insurance. It would also limit malpractice awards for pain and suffering to $250,000. Both provisions are opposed by Democrats and President Clinton.

Mental health coverage will further complicate the conference. The Senate passed an amendment which requires employers to provide comparable coverage for mental health care as for other health services. Sponsors Kennedy and Kassenbaum oppose this provision, as well as the medical savings accounts and malpractice reform passed by the House, because they would break the coalition that supported the bill.

Kassenbaum argued that a limited bill was essential if any health reform was to move forward. “In order to get this through, it’s got to be free and clear of controversial amendments,” she said. However, Sen. Phil Gramm (R-TX) indicated that “there’s going to be a very strong push” from Senate Republicans for medical savings accounts. Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole (R-KS) has also appointed Senate conferees who favor medical savings accounts. Supporters claim that these accounts would reduce health care costs because people would have an incentive to limit their spending. However, White House Chief of Staff Leon Panetta promised that “if Senator Dole makes the bill more partisan with medical savings accounts, the President will veto it.” Clinton believes that once affluent, healthy people enroll in medical savings accounts and withdraw from traditional insurance, those remaining would pay higher premiums.

The challenge for the Senate bill sponsors will be to stave off these controversial provisions. By limiting their legislation mainly to portability and pre-existing conditions, they cleared away significant opposition from industry and the insurance lobby. Kassenbaum said that any broader package would be “unmanageable and intrusive.” The bill was one “that we believed could get the broadest possible support and yet be a step forward in meaningful health care legislation.”

The bill is a sharp departure from the failed health care plan proposed by President Clinton in 1994. Rather than force an overhaul of the American health care system, this plan takes an incremental approach, addressing specific problems that are of the greatest concern to voters. If the bill passes, it will likely encourage further health care legislation. Sen. Kennedy remarked that “above all, [the bill] is proof positive that progress is again possible on health reform.”

Sources include: April 24 and 25 of The New York Times and April 24 of The Wall Street Journal.

Global Perspective

CIA abets arm smuggling?

By Andy Barwic
Guest Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

Amidst the charged political atmosphere of an election year and Whitewater hearings, another political crisis is looming on the horizon for the Clinton Administration. The roots of this crisis go back to early 1994 when debate in Washington concerning the civil war in the former Yugoslavia was centered around the arms embargo. American foreign policy makers were deeply concerned about the disproportionate balance of power in the Balkan region. Certain members of the government such as Bob Dole clamored for the removal of the arms embargo to allow the beleaguered Bosnian forces to fight their Serbian foes on more equal footing. These critics of the arms embargo contended that the US would create “a more level playing field” by allowing weapons shipments into Bosnia. Clinton decided to reject this proposal in fear that the removal of the arms embargo would lead to an escalation and militarization of the Balkan conflict. However, as steadfast as Clinton’s stance might have seemed at the time, the US continued to explore ways to come to the aid of the Bosnian Muslims. The ultimate course of action Washington decided upon reflected more of “what not to do” rather than “what to do.”

It has been known that Iran and several other Middle Eastern countries had been secretly supplying the Bosnian Muslims with arms over the past couple years. For much of the war, Iran smuggled weapons through Croatia and even supplied mujahideen forces to the Bosnian government in Sarajevo. What was not known and what recent reports seem to imply, however, is that this clandestine operation was facilitated by the CIA office in Croatia under President Clinton’s tacit approval. The issue is the wisdom and legality of Clinton’s decision to inform President Franco Tudjman of Croatia in April 1994 that the United States essentially would not object if Iran shipped arms to Bosnia through Croatia.

Since this information has surfaced it has created a storm on Capitol Hill. Oversight committees have demanded that Clinton turn over classified documents that he has deemed as “executivedecisions” concerning the policy on Bosnian arms shipments. As the showdown threatens to spill over into campaign politics, one consequence has already materialized for Bill Clinton — yet another American president in a streak since Jimmy Carter to be scorned by the Islamic Republic of Iran.

Stormin’ from page 4

extending dining hours on campus. Even alternative dining down the hill has been suggested. A large part of the student body expresses frustration with the Union Cafe’s high prices, the relative disrepair of campus vending machines, and limited CAT card capabilities. Students also addressed other college services. Several people feel that the Student Health Center is providing adequate service, but express concern that neither the morning after pill nor birth control are provided free, when condoms are readily available in all hall bathrooms.

In reaction to the issue of Patterson Court, the presence of a co-ed eating house is widely supported and students feel that the BSC could become more of a presence on campus and on the Court by co-sponsoring more events with other houses.

Students react strongly to matters concerning RLO. Most would like to see renovation and technological improvements, including internet and cable television accessibility to each dorm room. Others call for greater pollux availability campus-wide, perhaps in the Union and Chambers, and some complain of poor BTI service and rates. Many students advocate cleaner hall conditions, but object to the RLO collection and hoarding of property left on the halls. Co-ed dorms are of great concern, since many students feel that co-ed living could be a potential solution to senior year housing issues.

MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1996

Paraguay’s international adoptions under suspicion

Paraguay’s court system has become the target of numerous accusations that it has repeatedly sanctioned illicit international adoptions of Paraguayan children during the past few years. One Paraguayan woman recently stepped forward, intent on challenging the system, allegedly riddled with corruption. She claims that her 14-month-old daughter was stolen and sold for international adoption to an American couple in 1993.

Since the demise in 1989 of Paraguay’s dictatorial government, which had ruled the small South American country for 35 years, Paraguay has come to supply more children for adoption in the US than any other South American country.

Disco fire in Manila results in over a hundred fatalities

During Tuesday’s early morning hours, fire broke out in a crowded disco in Manila, capital of the Philippines. Literally packed with teenagers in the midst of a school-end celebration, the entire building was ravaged by flames. Hours after the fire, 80 bodies had been recovered from the wreckage, and officials predicted that the death toll would likely reach 150.

Cuban emigrants’ hopes rise with lottery announcement

Last week, just days after the US government announced its intention to hold a second lottery to allow Cubans to emigrate to the US, throngs of Cubans gathered in Havana outside the United States’ Interests Section, hoping to hand in their lottery applications. The lottery system was devised in 1994 by the US in an attempt to curb the flow of Cuban boat people entering the US. Through the lottery, Cubans who do not have relatives in the US and might not otherwise qualify for emigration are given a chance of acceptance into the United States.

Hamas budget may be funneled through Jordan

Western leaders, reacting to a string of deadly terrorist acts against Israel for which Hamas, a militant Islamic movement, claimed responsibility, urged Jordanian officials to shut down Hamas operations within Jordan. Jordanian Information Minister Marwan Muasher denied Hamas presence in the nation saying, “There are no Hamas offices in Jordan.” Yet Muasher was forced to admit that Hamas representatives maintain operations in the political headquarters of Jordan’s legal organization, the Muslim Brotherhood. The Brotherhood holds 17 of 80 parliamentary seats in Jordan’s government. Western intelligence officials insist that much of Hamas’ $70 million budget is channeled to the group through Jordan.

Sources include: The New York Times March 19 and 21, 1996

Break out the Eggs!

Exams will soon be here. To make it through them, we need to eat well (and study, too!). Besides maintaining our health and energy, we must consider our budget. Luckily, the NC Egg Association has a quick, easy, and inexpensive meal that your student body can prepare for a meal or snack. Did you know that it’s possible to make a 40-second omelet? It looks great and is a better deal than 2 chicken tacos at a fast food restaurant.

A few days ago I made my first omelet. I didn’t know if I was omelet making material, but in less than a minute I learned and made my own. My omelet was delicious. If omelet making was a class, we'd all make an A. Don’t you wish all your classes could be so easy? Get those eggs (and books) cracking!

The Official 40 Second Omelet

2 eggs
2 tbsp water
pat of butter
1/2 cup of whatever filling you want — onions, mushrooms, peppers, cheese, pizza sauce, bacon, spices, asparagus, fruit, peanut butter, etc.

Before adding the eggs, heat pan over stove. Chop filling. Mix eggs and water. Put butter in pan — don’t let it burn. Set your stop watch: pour eggs on hot pan. Turn the spatula over (inverted position) and gently push eggs from the pan’s 12 o’clock position to the center. Tilt the pan for eggs to fill the hole. Repeat push and tilt at the three, six, and nine o’clock positions. Place filling on left side of omelet. Fold right side over left. Put down spatula, pick up plate, and flip omelet onto plate.

— North Carolina Egg Association