12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Be a 900 Room Bar Manager.
It's an easy decision.

Flexible

If you are interested, pick up an application at the Union Information Desk, and return it by Thursday, April 18.

Stretch...
Yoga pulls out the kinks

By Nick PAUL
Staff Writer

Last Thursday in the Big Screen Room, the good people who have set up South Asian awareness week hosted a
Yoga workshop. It was instructed by Dot Kaylor, a longtime enthusiast and student of Yoga. The setting was relaxing and
instructive; I think that all of us who attended came away feeling more at peace with ourselves and with a
more complete understanding of the now popular Indian art.

Kaylor’s technique concentrates on unifying breath and movement while performing the ancient movements and stretches. She told us that all
of the stretches and bends in Yoga are meant to allow the body to sit perfectly on the ground. The
sitting position has always been imperative for the Yoga gurus of India who attempt to retain the position for days
at a time while reciting Vedic chants and entering into meditative states. With this in mind, we began in the
cross-legged sitting position focusing on our breathing cycle. Then we attempted a few of the stretches. To say that I
am not the most flexible guy at Davidson would be somewhat of an understatement. Fortunately for me, flexibility is not
required to attempt any of the positions. The most important rule of Yoga to remember is the two-word guideline, “Steady,
comfortable.”

While Yoga is often associated with the Hindu religion of India, it is in fact a practice outside of religious
boundaries. Yoga is meant to remove the “kinks,” as Kaylor called them, from the body. Combined with meditation, its objective
is to forge a more perfect union between the human consciousness and the universe. Kaylor commented that, “we don’t regard
the body enough in our (Christian) religion,” and I agree.

CHARLOTTE

On Saturday, April 20, the Charlotte Hornets will host the second annual Nike Hoop Summit, a heady clash of culturally
diverse teams. The fundamentals of the game, who end up to their knees and hands up on D, have to
manage charge and moving without the ball into art form. The clash will certainly, almost chemically, result in a high-scoring,
lopsided, run-and-gun game with dramatic rim-shaking helicopter slam dunks, no-look passes, multilingual trash talk, and the ever-hovering...

The Nike Hoop Summit, presented by...

The Charlotte Observer. Tickets cost $5 and $8. Call TicketMaster at 704-522-6500 or 1-800-736-NIKE for more information. Proceeds benefit the
Basketball Hall of Fame.

ARTS & LIVING - MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1996

At the Clubs

Music in two hours or less—

COMPILED BY WILL FOY

April 15
Elbow Room (Columbia): 3 Lb. Thrill
Rockafellas (Columbia): Agent Orange w/ Horace Pinker and Cletus (7 p.m.)
Rockafellas: Euthanasia w/ Day After (11 p.m.)

April 16
Cat’s Cradle (Chapel Hill): Nathan Sheppard Band w/ Far Too Jones
Elbow Room: Fleming & John
Rockafella’s: Magadog
Ziggy’s (Winston-Salem): Hog w/ Athanaeum

April 17
Amos’s (Charlotte): Hazel Virtue
Be Here Now (Asheville): Evan & Jaron w/ The Nields
Brewery (Charlotte): Doxy’s Kitchen w/ People Who Must
Cat’s Cradle: Braniac w/ A Ten O’Clock Scholar & Cobra Kahn
Elbow Room: Spider Monkey
Jack Straw’s (Charlotte): The Grapes
Rockafella’s: Clarissa w/ Spanish Tonys and Space 13
Ziggy’s: Last One Standing

April 18
Amos’s: Love Canal
Be Here Now: Bus Stop
Brewery: Speed McQueen w/ Splitsville & Liquor Bike
Cat’s Cradle: Golden Smog w/ Geraldine Fibbers & Tweaker (8 p.m.)
Elbow Room: Dash Rip Rock
Jack Straw’s: Fleming & John
Rockafella’s: Evil Mother, Tongue & Redrum (11 p.m.)
Ziggy’s: Jackopierce

April 19
Amos’s: Peace ‘n’ Love
Be Here Now: Spider Monkey
Brewery: Jumpstarts w/ Massey Jive & Viskacity
Cat's Cradle: Doxy’s Kitchen w/ Jump, Little Children
Elbow Room: Gracie Moon
Jack Straw’s: Blue Miracle
Rockafella’s: The Goops w/ Joykiller & Gameboy (6 p.m.)
Rockafella’s: Sqweal w/ Scooby Doos (11 p.m.)
Ziggy’s: Eddie From Ohio w/ Keller Williams

April 20
Amos’s: Colorblind
Be Here Now: The Rankin Family
Brewery: Six String Drag w/ the Tonebenders
Cat’s Cradle: Girls Against Boys w/ Salt & Edsel
Elbow Room: Possum Dixon
Jack Straw’s: Big Stoner Creek
Ziggy’s: Tiny Lights

April 21
Amos’s: Curious George
Cat's Cradle: Evan & Jaron w/ Fendal (7 p.m.)
