THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1996

Anthony Abbott PROFILE | Professor of English and Humanities

Abbott receives prestigious Sam Ragan Fine Arts Award

By JOHN DUNWOODY
Staff Writer

Tony Abbott, Professor of English and Humanities, was awarded the Sam Ragan Arts Award on September 19, in a ceremony at St. Andrews Presbyterian College. The Ragan Awards recognize artistic excellence and dedication to furthering the arts in North Carolina. They are named for the state’s former Poet Laureate, who died earlier this year. This marked the 16th year of their presentation.

St. Andrews College President Dr. Warren Board presented Abbott’s award, and Stephen Smith, editor of the St. Andrews journal, Sandhills Review, read a selection of Ragan’s poems at the ceremony. Ron Bayes, chairman of the Ragan Awards Committee, said Abbott is a shining example of long-time service to the state’s artistic community. “I can’t think of a finer example of leadership that crosses all the literary genres — anywhere, not just in North Carolina,” Bayes said. “His poetry blends sensitivity with insight and frequently with a wonderful, mordant sense of humor.”

Abbott has served the literary arts as a writer, teacher, and organizational leader. He joined the Davidson faculty in 1964 and served as chair of the English department from 1989-1996. He has served as president of the North Carolina Writers Network, chaired this summer’s meeting of the N.C. Writers Conference, and served as judge and speaker for the O. Henry Literary Festival.

In 1989 Abbott was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize for his first collection of poems, The Girl in the Yellow Raincoat (St. Andrews Press). His second collection, A Small Thing Like a Breath, received an award from the North Carolina Arts Council. He has won numerous awards for poetry published in literary magazines, and has directed seven plays for the Davidson Community Players.

Abbott received his undergraduate degree from Princeton University and his M.A. and Ph.D. from Harvard.

College Relations contributed to this article.

Molly McGehee, Stephen Elliott, Dr. Daniel Cerutti, and Lindsay O’Nell.

Bill Giduz
Staff Writer

Even though Stephen Elliott, Molly McGehee, and Lindsay O’Nell aren’t exactly sure where they will be or what they will do next year, they now know that they will have up to $22,000 with which to do it. The three seniors won Rotary Scholarships sponsored by Charlotte and North Mecklenburg Rotary Clubs. They each chose five international universities where they would like to study next year.

O’Nell, a Spanish major, chose schools from Spain to Argentina, and decided that she wanted to study the educational system of a country to better understand its leaders. 

Elliott, McGehee, and O’Nell win Rotary

By ANN CULP

History major McGehee’s first choice was the University of Nice because she wanted to focus her attention on history, art history, and literature. Elliott would like to study in Ecuador but he also applied to schools in Costa Rica, Mexico, and Argentina. Because he is an economics major with a concentration in applied math, he wants to study economic development in the Latin American context and also general Latin American studies.

“I am really excited about receiving the scholarship so early in the year,” says Elliott. “Now I can lay off the job search for a while,” he says.

In December, the Rotary Club will finally select the school where Elliott, McGehee, and O’Nell will be studying. “The Rotary Club is a group of businessmen which promotes service, goodwill, and truth on an"International level," says O'Neil. "Service above all else is their creed." The area Rotary Clubs sponsored three awards for which fourteen people applied. "The scholarship is an ambassadorial scholarship which involves presenting the U.S. to another country," says McGehee. Anyone who has graduated from college qualifies for the award. Besides this scholarship, the Rotary Club also sponsors scholarships for high school seniors and a cultural scholarship for students in college going abroad.

College trustees depart after uneventful weekend
By DANIELLE MILES
Staff Writer

Most of the 48 members of Davidson’s Board of Trustees were on campus this weekend for committee meetings on Thursday, a Trustee Dinner Thursday evening in Chambers Gallery, and full board meetings on Friday. Each of the seven trustee committees, including those on Admission and Financial Aid, Athletic Policy, Buildings and Grounds, Institutional Advancement, the Council on Campus and Religious Life, Academic and Educational Policy, and Business and Finance, met Thursday. Student representatives serve on the first five of these committees. Seniors Will Cowan, Clair Freeman, and Warren Buford return to their respective committees from last year. Senior Nelson Chandler and sophomore Rives Moore were selected by the Student Government Association two weeks ago to fill vacant positions on the remaining two committees.

Says Chandler, "I think the trustees are receptive to having students on the committees. [It] helps promote dialogue between students and committees." He adds that the student participation also helps the trustees to be "generally receptive to the student body," especially in relation to issues like the remodeling of the sophomore dorms and efforts to provide all students with online access from their rooms, which are in the domain of the committee on Building and Grounds, on which Chandler serves. In his experience this weekend, the trustees are, Chandler emphasizes, "interested to know what students feel."

Buford also believes that communication with the trustees has been successful. "I believe open dialogue has occurred," he says. Thursday night’s Trustee Dinner brought students, trustees, and some faculty together. Other students who attended the dinner say that the trustees went out of their way to communicate with students. As Chandler says, it was a time to "get together ... in a more informal setting." Overall, he calls the trustees’ visit "a positive experience, and hopefully a productive one."

Trustees made general reviews on such issues as the alcohol policy and the future construction of a new college union. However, the majority of discussion centered on progress reports. The recipient of this year’s honorary degree was chosen by the Academic and Educational Policy committee, but committee members are waiting to hear if the degree will be accepted before the name is released. Members of the Physical Plant who aided in the hurricane relief were honored. Other reports included a statistical update on the Class of 2000, a review of the summer renovations to the sophomore dorms, a review of the construction of the new computer lab in the basement of Belk, and current status updates from Dr. Robert J. Manning, Vice Chairman of the Faculty, Dr. Laurie Dunn, President of the Alumni Association, and Warren Buford, SGA President.

Meet lots of cool people and write about them. Call Kirsten. — 2148

OUTDOOR EXCITEMENT
Shops on the Green--Cornelius, NC 892-1848
Check out our new snowboard department.
AIRWALK
See all the new fall clothing from Patagonia & Columbia

Aromatherapy Essentials
(704) 896-0089