4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1996

Sophomores ride for MS
By Kirsten RECKNAGEL
News Editor

Recently, sophomores Kerry Brophy and Ann Flinn left Ben & Jerry’s with more than dessert. By the time the two Davidson Outdoors leaders had finished their Cherry Garcia, they had stumbled upon an opportunity too great to pass up: Brophy and Flinn were determined to take on “The 150 Multiple Sclerosis Tour” held last weekend.

“We were in Ben & Jerry’s and saw a poster for [The 150 MS Tour] and we thought, ‘that sounds like a challenge’,” Flinn explains. Created to raise money for the Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Society, “The Tour” actually consists of 160 miles of biking — from Columbia, S.C. to Myrtle Beach. Participants solicit pledges from friends, family, or perfect strangers. Then they hop on their bikes and ride 160 miles over the course of two days.

About 1500 riders ranging in age from 8 to 83 years took to backroads, Main Streets, and occasionally stretches of major highways to raise money for the MS Society last weekend. After riding all day Saturday, the tour stopped in Florence, S.C. where participants slept in a high school gymnasium or stayed in local hotels. Jim Smith, an MS Society official, says Brophy and Flinn were “probably the only couple of college students in the ride.” Each raised about $150 through their efforts.

“We didn’t train for [the bikeathon],” Flinn says. “The last 20 miles each day were pretty bad. It was hard, but do-able.”

Students worry about the “BTI advantage”
from page 1

Berry used her father’s credit card to order a combination refrigerator/freezer/microwave for her Cannon triple over the summer. When she showed up during orientation to pick it up, “they had no record of me at all,” she says. “And they didn’t have any left.” When Berry called University Programs to inquire about her order, the operator “didn’t have my name in the computer,” even though Berry had given her her father’s name, credit card number and expiration date over the phone weeks earlier. “She had everything she needed to use [my father’s credit card],” she says.

Finally, once a manager was able to fill Berry’s order with an unclaimed unit, she was told it wouldn’t be possible to receive a discount off the $210 annual rental fee, even though five weeks of the semester had already gone by. The operator with whom Berry spoke said that “There’s nothing we can do about it.”

Rather than passively accept a corporate mandate, sophomore Shannon Howland took action last year when she found long-distance service BTI’s rates too high. Now, Howland says, “I use a Sprint card.” Howland doesn’t understand why Davidson doesn’t try a service she cites used at Maryland universities, which taps into the best rate possible at the time a student calls. “The phone industry is so competitive...” she says. “It doesn’t seem as though Davidson couldn’t find a better rate. It seems to me that this is a prime marketplace... I don’t know why they can’t find other retailers.”

“I don’t know if it’s Davidson’s responsibility to say ‘OK, let’s do a cost analysis,’ or anything... [but] they have a moral obligation to make sure BTI has a good plan,” Yet, Howland says, “To a certain extent, you have to be a smart consumer,” and Davidson students who are perhaps too trusting “should not take everything at face value.”

Hey, are you WILDCAT Fans!! (Students, Faculty, Alumni) the WILDCATS want YOU! We are looking for musicians and other talented persons interested in forming the WILDCAT PEP-BAND. You will be guaranteed:
1. The best seats in the house
2. Band Shirt
3. All expense paid trip to Southern Conference TournamentPE Team Credit
For more info call: Alec - 2781 or Jeanette - 2378

PROFILE
Shelley Rigger
Political Science Professor

By DANIELLE MILES
Staff Writer

While Professor Shelley Rigger was trying to find a way to Taiwan to witness the Taiwanese national elections last spring, a golden opportunity arose in the form of an invitation from the Joan Shorenstein Institute for Press, Politics, and Policy at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. The invitation, which sparked from Rigger’s graduate studies at Harvard and was extended by director Marvin Kalb (whose daughter Judy Kalb is currently teaching Russian at Davidson), came attached to an assignment: to study the liberalization of the mass media in Taiwan.

The Joan Shorenstein Institute was “interested in finding out how lifting [media] restrictions affects politics in Taiwan.” Unfortunately, on her spring trip Rigger soon discovered, “The whole island was just crazy over this election.” If the Taiwanese were less than interested in talking about liberalization of the press, they were eager to talk to Rigger and a reporter for the Government Information Office and the Charlotte Observer.

From March 14 to March 25, 1996, Rigger “spent each day chasing candidates” — sometimes across the country. She recalls one day when she and a reporter friend from Hong Kong joined forces (combining his journalism skills and her fluency in Mandarin Chinese) to track down Mr. Peng Ming-min, a presidential candidate from the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP). They traveled across the country to witness one of Peng’s campaign parades, arriving just in time to see a parade disappearing down the street. The two flagged down what they thought to be a campaign van, hoping to catch up to the fast disappearing motorcade. The van’s friendly driver drove Rigger and her friend around the city for two hours, only to discover that the parade they were chasing was not Mr. Peng’s parade at all, but that of another politician campaigning for the National Assembly. They then learned that their volunteer chauffeur was not even on Peng’s campaign staff, but was an ordinary citizen who voluntarily missed work because of his strong dedication to Peng’s ideals. He explained his position in this way: “The least I can do is to help the foreign reporters get the story.” He drove Rigger to the DPP’s campaign headquarters, where she interviewed Peng’s campaign manager, who then offered to drive her to the headquarters of the incumbent president, Lee Teng-hui.

On March 24, the election day, Rigger traveled to different polling spots, including the China Evangelical Seminary, which coincidentally turned out to be the home of the parents of a Davidson senior, Thomas Wang. She watched as the votes were counted to re-elect President Lee by a 54% majority, even in a four-way race. Rigger commented that before she left for Taiwan in March she was warned that the situation could be dangerous. Arriving in Taiwan, however, Rigger was assured that the Chinese scare threats were more effective on outsiders than on the Taiwanese. “Sometimes nothing happens,” she explains, expressing the truth that the Taiwanese were counting on.

Perhaps that aura of danger prompted the remarkable amount of interest in her trip, both from students and faculty at Davidson, and elsewhere, including Charlotte, Washington, D.C., and Columbia, SC. In the first month following her return, Rigger did seven different lectures about her trip. As she explains: “For the first time people were really interested in that election.”

Enter The Davidsonian photo contest. Submit to our office by Sept. 30

News tip? — 2148