All photos by Ben Delisa
Top Left: The crowd roars at Sig Ep. Top Right: Deanna Yard grooves to the beat. Middle: Ellen Rockwell and
Stowe Beam get psyched. Bottom Left: Sarah Zogby gives Britton Taylor a light. Bottom Right: (Left to Right) Wes Roche,
Chris Dunn, John Webb, and Erich Hickey have a group hug.

Up All Night

First Night Down jumpstarts the Court’s nightlife

By Ellen Rockwell
Staff Writer

First Night Down — the first night for freshmen to leave behind the hall parties and dance into the real
college life of fraternities and upperclassmen.

The evening began with the traditional hall dinner at Prime to prevent drinking on an empty stomach. Following that, many
freshmen acquired a buzz before heading down to the court while the fraternities were busy setting up the bands, buying
beer, and cleaning their houses.

At ten o’clock, the music started and freshmen littered the Court. Because of the built-up anticipation, certain expectations were imagined
in the minds of freshmen. One freshman visualized First Night Down consisting of a large campus-wide party but instead found
multiple gatherings.

Nevertheless, First Night Down is an opportunity for the houses to express their different personalities and appeal to freshmen who
share those similarities. A major component to an appealing party is music, and where there is great dance music there
is a crowd. The court hosted a variety of bands ranging from rock to bluegrass and hip-hop.

And, yes, alcohol is another appealing factor in a party. Even with the new alcohol policy, there was no shortage
of beer for the freshmen — just longer lines at the top of the stairs. A couple of houses did
run out of beer around 1 a.m., but most freshmen had consumed their limit and were content.

Many concerns were voiced, as always, about the judgment of freshmen while drinking. There were no major problems reported with
First Night Down. The lack of incidents is hopefully a result of the preparation that goes into educating the freshmen.
P.E. 101 takes precaution to reinforce that such events as sexual harassment and rape can occur on campus. Hall counselors
reminded the freshmen of the dangers and encouraged them to look out for each other.

Even if a student were not into the drinking scene, he or she had at least one beer spilled on
them. In the packed houses, where dancing was swaying among numerous bodies, accidents did occur. In that environment, people shoved
you and realized it and apologized, or they were too drunk to notice.

In this type of environment, not everyone feels comfortable; those freshmen who avoided the court still had a great time
in the senior apartments mingling with upperclassmen or just enjoying the company of their fellow classmates.

And First Night Down is never complete without going to the Outpost for a bite to eat. During the early
morning hours, it was crowded with students ready to grab a snack before crashing. Many freshmen the next day agreed
they had a great time; however, they felt First Night Down was overrated.

In any event, the Class of 2000 saw their initiation into the Court as a positive scene filled with great
music and intense dancing.
