DAVIDSONIAN

Field Hockey splits two

By Carlo REYNOLDS
Staff Writer

The momentum from Thursday’s 3-0 shutout of Catawba College was not enough to carry Davidson past Richmond in the first
home game of the season on Sunday. After a hard loss at Wake Forest, the Wildcats began slowly at Catawba.
Early in the second half, Erin Smith followed up Chase Keith’s shot for the first goal. Keith, hungry for a
goal of her own, stayed after her next shot, and knocked it in on the second try. During a second-half
rally by the Indians, Pryor called a timeout to prevent panic. Soon after play resumed, Kate Schoening scored the third
goal for the Wildcats.

Davidson met Richmond after this confidence-building win, but Richmond was coming off a huge win of their own. They beat
powerhouse Wake Forest several days before. The game began with a struggle for clear shots. Davidson goalkeeper Sara Gebhardt saved
a high cross-field ball and allowed time for her team’s offense to answer. Smith streaked down the sideline as Spider
defenders strained to catch up. The Richmond goalkeeper managed to discourage the initial attack, and Smith passed off to Teresa
Alden. Drawing the scrambling defense toward her, Alden dished the ball back to Smith who scored.

In the second half, Richmond tested the sidelines, but Mary Dowd pushed Richmond’s fast breaks back time after time, crippling
the Spider offensive potency. Richmond, however, capitalized on corner shots. They were scoreless until midway through the second half, when
one of their corners finally went in to tie the game. Pryor called time-out when her team began to show
signs of fatigue. “I wanted to get them to focus again because we started to lose our poise. That’s part
of the youth of the team, something that will get better with time,” Pryor said.

The contest ultimately was decided by endurance. The deeper Spider bench was able to hold out longer and carried the
team through the double overtime. “You had to play from your heart. When there’s nothing left in your legs, it
has to come from your heart,” said Dowd. Pryor had hoped that the grass field would be more of an
advantage, since the Wildcats are accustomed to their natural surface. Gebhardt said Richmond’s corner shots balanced out any difficulty they
might have had making the transition.

SPORTS

The Davidson cross-country team had a strong showing in their first meet of the season. The race was scored as
five dual meets, and the Davidson runners went 4-1 against the other competitors. The Wildcats downed Vanderbilt (22-37), Radford (17-46),
Campbell (17-46), and Winthrop (21-40). UNC-A knocked off Davidson, 22-37, putting four runners in the top five. Josh Cookson broke
up the front-running Asheville pack to finish third overall. “I was happy with my performance, but also pleased with the
times of our younger guys,” Cookson said. Freshmen William Isenhour and Pat Burchett finished seventh and ninth, respectively. Last week
the team placed seventh out of 18 teams at the Greensboro Invitational. “The competition among the top ten runners is
very strong right now,” coach Gary Andrew remarked. “That will only force everyone to work harder individually, and as a
result the team will improve.”

Strategic Research for the World’s Leading Service Corporations

According to the school's coach, the race was scored like a dual meet. This scoring method resulted in each team
competing individually against Davidson. The Wildcats beat Vanderbilt, 26-29, but fell to the other schools: UNC-A 16-DC 47, Winthrop 19-DC
36, Campbell 25-DC.31, Radford 23-DC 32. The Wildcats' top runner, Suzy Burr, finished 9th overall, 20:12. The team was running
without their injured number two runner, Allie Curran.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1996

Harriers come home
Rugby falls to Mountaineers

Men’s team takes four of five
Women run well

By CLAYTON SCHLOSS
Staff Writer

By JONATHAN HAYES
Staff Writer

By AARON DUNHAM
Staff Writer

On Saturday, the women’s cross country team hosted its first home meet of the season against UNC-A, Winthrop, Vanderbilt, Campbell,
and Radford. Due to a request from another team, the men’s cross country team turned in its second consecutive solid
performance Saturday in the Wildcat Invitational, the only home meet of the season.

The Davidson rugby team played two games at Appalachian State last Saturday. Although the Wildcats lost the A-side game 10-12,
they came back in the B-side to dominate the Mountaineers, 24-12. Davidson got off to a slow start. Prop Mike
Lassiter scored the only try for the Wildcats, barreling through several tacklers and hurdling over an App. St. defender at
the goal line. Fullback Matt Burkhardt converted the kick and also put a penalty kick through the uprights later in
the game, but the Wildcats came up just short.

“Even though we lost, we didn’t give in after they jumped out to an early lead and we hung in
there,” said second row man Will Baldwin.

In the unofficial B-side contest, Davidson gave some of its reserves a chance to play, and they made the most
of the opportunity. The Wildcat tries were scored by Lassiter, wing Christian Baker, and prop Jason Allen. Davidson also received
help from an App. St. player who joined the Wildcats for the scrimmage and scored a try.

“We played tough today. We're all disappointed in the result, but this loss should fire us up and get us
ready for Duke,” said Baker.

Advisory Board Company
The Watergate
600 New Hampshire Ave., N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20037
Facsimile: 202-672-5700

Serving a membership of more than 2,000 organizations drawn from the upper echelons of financial services, health care, and the
Fortune 2000, the Advisory Board is the preeminent strategic research and publishing firm. Through exhaustive independent research, Research Associates contribute
significantly to the success of the firm with the annual publication of approximately 25,000 customized research briefs that address the
broad concerns of our membership. For additional information about the Research Associate position, please refer to your career center or
visit our website at http://www.advisory.com.

Please join us October 9, 1996
Davidson
The Student Union
The Big Screen Room
7:00 p.m.

Kiltant Health System
American Express Company
AT&T Corporation
Bank of America
Beth Israel Hospital
Cedars Sinai Medical Center
Citibank
The Coca-Cola Company
Duke University Hospital
DuPont
FedEx
Ford Motor Company
Georgetown University Hospital
Henry Ford Health System
The Gap, Inc.
IBM Corporation
M.D. Anderson Cancer Center
Merck & Co., Inc.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
Microsoft Corporation
Miller Brewing Company
Nestle USA, Inc.
NIKE, Inc.
Paine Webber
Polaroid
Prudential Health Services
Starbucks Coffee Company
The Texas Heart Institute
Texas Medical Center
University of Chicago Hospitals
Walt Disney World Corporation
Wells Fargo
Wake Forest University Baptist Medical Center
