OPINIONS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1996 | Matt Smith

I would like to take a moment to address Mr. Hayworth’s reactionary and disturbingly thoughtless article from last week, “Tradition or Safety?,” in which he argues against the installation of I.D. card readers on the doors of Chambers. His argument literally posits the question of whether the safety of the student body or the maintenance of tradition is a more important issue. At first, I could not believe that this could ever actually be considered a contest. More shocking than that, however, was his own ruling on the matter. I would like to think that he was not serious in what he wrote. That he couldn’t have been. But I can only assume that he was, and must therefore object.

Tradition, as we all know, is by its very definition rooted in antiquity — an old custom, born and nurtured in a time distant from our own. Such customs often are wonderful. They add fullness, complexity, and a strong sense of identity and history to an institution. If it can be afforded — that is, if they remain positive or, at worst, innocuous ideals — I feel we should continue to embrace them. But what price the glory of a wide-open Chambers?

Times, as they say, have changed. Perhaps Mr. Hayworth has never attended “Take Back the Night,” in which female Davidson students share their own stories of rape and other sexual assaults — a number of which occurred on this very campus. Even if one were to argue that the incidence of rape, assault, and battery on this campus has not increased over the past seventy years (despite a great amount of evidence that it has), one is forced to admit, at least, that we are more keenly aware than ever of its occurrence. These are the stories we cannot ignore. These are the stories which remind us that the Campus Police, as fine a force as they are, cannot possibly be there to prevent every crime on campus, and that self-defense training in no way guarantees safety. These are the stories which remind us that the fact that an incident of violence in Chambers has never been reported does not mean it has not occurred nor could not occur.

I personally feel perfectly safe in Chambers late at night, as do most of the students I know. But must we wait for the first incident to be reported before taking preventative steps? And are the preventative steps Mr. Hayworth suggested — surveillance cameras, an increased police force — truly any less detrimental to the sense of openness on this campus?

Let me rephrase my first statement. I would not so much characterize Mr. Hayworth’s article as thoughtless as I would naive. Believe me, I do harbor some of the same sentiments. I love an open Chambers and often take advantage of its silence and availability for late-night studying. But that privilege is not being denied.

Sara Smith

Educating Joseph

Joseph Hayworth, in his article of last week, titled “Safety or Tradition,” presented an extremely misinformed and poorly structured argument. He argued that keycards should not be installed on the doors of Chambers. I shudder to think that this obviously misdirected young man received an upbringing that raised him to believe that the possibility of people being assaulted in a widely used college building does not compare to his ideas of tradition. Maybe it is the inconvenience of reaching into his back pocket for his student ID that truly bothers him. I’m not slamming on his momma or his religious faith, I just have to wonder what his environmental cues were to guide such judgment. I’ve decided that I should just put it down to the fact that he hasn’t been here very long.

Here’s a quick education for you, Joseph. If you have the impression that no one has been assaulted in Chambers “since it was built,” you seriously are under the spell of Davidson’s bubble effect. I know women have only been here for twenty-two years, but there are many kinds of assault. Yeah, no rapes were reported on campus last year. This doesn’t mean that they weren’t committed. Chambers is not a great bulwark of safety. I highly recommend that you attend Take Back the Night during Women’s Month in the Spring. If you can’t wait, speak with Georgia Ringle. She’ll be very informative and patient with you. As for your rhetorical query that attempts to establish that “most female students [have] been offered courses in self-defense,” I refer you to a friend of mine who said, “Yeah, what are we supposed to do, karate chop our way down the hall?” Now whether or not Bruce Lee is in the house is irrelevant when she is walking down the hallway of Chambers at 4 a.m.

We should remember that it is our keycards that allow us to leave our dorm rooms unlocked throughout the day. If any of you want to break into my room, tough luck. I’m living off-campus this year. It isn’t simply our keycards that allow this amazingly bad habit of leaving our rooms unlocked to persist but Davidson College’s philosophy is changing, it is certainly changing for the better. I applaud the efforts of the student government, professors, and especially the campus police all of whom, in the past, have lobbied for increased campus lighting and other safety measures. Okay, so they might have gone a little overboard with Apartment F. I’m glad to see that Joseph Hayworth utilized critical think-ing and proposed alternate solutions. Unfortunately, the cost of hiring more police officers far exceeds the cost of keycard installation. Surveillance cameras bespeak “big brother is watching you.” Multiple and specific keycard areas would involve more cost than just the few needed at the main entrances and handicapped access door. Hayworth’s implication of an adverse reaction by the town of Davidson to implementing keycards on the doors of Chambers is unfounded. As far as I know, there were no riots or protests when Davidson installed keycards on the dormitories. I don’t think anyone from the town will cast their eyes in another direction when passing us on the street when the keycards are put in place. I also disagree that Chambers is the “last remaining symbol of what all of Davidson used to be,” or that we are destroying it. Look around, you’ll see hundreds of examples of symbols of the Davidson tradition. Each one of us is an example. Perhaps I am generating paranoia. I could be a little bitter or overly militant. The thing of it is, I don’t want any more of my female friends telling me that they were raped or “taken advantage of” in any way in ANY building. We need to remember that the famous bubble that surrounds this school may be reflecting rainbow but the film is thin. Sorry, poetic license (thanks Owen).

Saad from page 7

That’s why I find it disturbing as American politicians find it increasingly convenient and popular to bash judges for “coddling” defendants... “(s)he receives Christmas cards from the ACLU.” Christmas cards they might be getting, but browbeating the judge sets a dangerous precedent. To paraphrase Gerry Spence, what might strike you as absurd loopholes for others become your sacred constitutional rights when you are told “will the Defendant please rise?” And that’s why I would like to remind you that when “the crook” screams from the docket (yes, even OJ) that he is innocent, he MIGHT be. Presumably, he will be punished for his crimes. But as humans, we owe it to each other to at least listen to what he has to say. — Audi Altrum Partum — always hear both sides. And for lesser offenses, let us remember Dr. Johnson “God Himself Sir, does not propose to judge Man till the end of his days.” Perhaps neither should we.

Saad Gul, ’97

LIFE (N KELL

Not Thoughtless—Naive

Moreover, I hate the thought that the installation of card readers in Chambers marks a compromise in our trust both of the student body and of the community. But the community is growing rapidly around us; and although most do, a handful of our students do not always behave honorably. In conclusion, let me state my firm conviction that the heart of this college is its student body (and faculty), not its sense of tradition. The latter is adornment—lovely, but not essential. How selfish of me to value it over others’ well-being! The college must take every step necessary to ensure the safety of its students. And if certain measures require the loss of a little tradition, so be it. It is a small, small price to pay.

Kristen Richardson

In Response to the Amazing Technicolor Opinion

I must admit that the first time I heard about Chambers and card access was when I received an article, by Joseph Hayworth, for editing. The primary concern of the author is that tradition is being abrogated by security measures and that the addition of “keycards” to Chambers is emblematic of the end of some sort of era at Davidson. Mr. Hayworth asserts that “If nobody has been harmed, injured, or otherwise assaulted in Chambers after hours since it was built, why are these actions needed now?” I will tell you why. It is important to realize that an incident of assault and a reported incident of assault are two very different things. Many incidents of violence are unreported. This is especially true of acts of aggression against women. As a survivor of sexual assault, I can speak to that directly. I never even told my parents what happened to me, so what makes anyone think that a woman would report an attack? Mr. Hayworth makes it clear that it is women for whom these locks are being installed. He asks, “haven’t most female students been offered courses in self-defense?” I haven’t. Self-defense can help, but it sure as hell won’t stop rape. Or at least it didn’t stop mine. What would have helped me a lot was if the place where I was raped had been locked. As well as being petty, misinformed, and sexist, the essential argument of this article is at fault. An unlocked Chambers is not “the last remaining symbol of what Davidson used to be.” It is not a bastion of safety awash in the glow of a rosy southern tradition. It is a dangerous anachronism. How can anyone possibly venture that tradition is more important than the safety of Davidson students? Locking Chambers at night will not wreak proverbial havoc upon our friendly southern insouciance. Nor will it push away tradition. This school has so much southern tradition that a misplanted northerner like me would like to see it relax a bit. We cannot create a new Davidson rife with ideological ferment, although I wish sometimes we could. However, eliminating attitudes like that which was expressed in the previous issue should facilitate the growth of an atmosphere a bit closer to Utopia than Mr. Hayworth’s perfect view.