THE DAVIDSONIAN

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
JILL WILLIAMS

Associate Editors
MARY CLARE JALONICK
WILL BRADSHAW

News Editors
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
RANDY HARTWELL

Opinions Editors
CARRIE BLACKBURN
DANIEL MOTZ

Arts & Living Editor
SUSAN RUGGIERO

Sports Editors
TERESA WHITE
MICHAEL KRUSE

Photo Editor
BEN DeLISA

Advertising Managers
BETH BACON
MEREDITH LUCIUS

Circulation Manager
McNEIL CARSWELL

Copy Editors
NINA BLOUNT
KRISTEN RICHARDSON

Web Page Managers
CLAY LENHART
GREG GARRISON

Cartoonist
BRAD CHASE
ERIC PENDERGRASS

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at: http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

The Grade

In which direction should academics at Davidson head? Toward a politically correct curriculum? Toward a workload so heavy that students
learn to make the grade without doing all of the work? Toward an attitude that excludes all outside-the-classroom involvement?

Davidson has always been high stress; we are famous for it. We should not complain about this, for we knew
that we were challenging ourselves by attending this school. And we should have learned to enjoy working, thinking, and learning—all
things that Davidson teaches well.

But these attitudes can manifest themselves in different ways. They can be based on intellectual values, which encourage students to
learn and to love doing so. Many students at Davidson embrace their studies in this manner, and they are the
happy ones. They love to learn, but do not base their livelihood on The Grade.

But many worry that if they do not get The Grade, they have not lived up to The Reputation (“Were
you a valedictorian too? So was I!”), and they might not graduate with The Rank or get The Job. Maybe
the roommate, or the parents, will find out that The Grade was not perfect. Maybe they will find out that
they are not perfect.

So what does this do to young, impressionable mentalities in a high-pressure environment? It makes them study harder, stay in
more, and become less and less involved. Is this healthy?

College is about studying, academics, and learning. These priorities should never change. But college is also about enlightenment. Many students
find themselves cramming so hard that the bigger picture is lost—how many forget that history is not just about dates,
art history is not just about paintings, or English is not just about authors?

Humanities is one program that helps students to understand the big picture. Interdisciplinary skills are an essential lesson to learn
when looking critically at anything, and humanities gives freshmen and sophomores an entrance into the true world of humanism and
liberal arts thought. To lose the program would be tragic.

Students should step out and look at themselves more often, loosen up and attempt to create something else than a
high GPA. Professors should not be encouraged to make classes easier (for this would defeat the original purpose), but to
encourage narrow minds to look at other options beyond the study carrel. This is implied in most classes, but many
students will not understand unless it is beaten over their heads or written in their textbooks.

A college community should encourage students to be themselves. Once we lose that, we have nothing to enlighten. Some students
find the true self in a lab, some in a tutorial, some by writing a thesis. Others might find their
strongest skills by playing a sport or acting in a play. The skills learned in any activity, if employed with
passion, can help direct one’s future path.

A liberal arts education, a Davidson education, should encourage and explore students' talents and interests, not limit and confine them.
An education with no true depth and...Diversity is a very uninteresting, and unenlightening, prospect. Working exclusively for The Grade can
blind students to their own unique and valuable abilities. Students should take the path in which they are most skilled
and passionate, whatever the consequences—whatever the grade.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. One copy per
student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.
Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the
editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per
year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTERS

Scream For Ice Cream

To the Editors:

I read with interest Mary Clare Jalonick’s article in which she reviews two new local restaurants. I was concerned by
her exasperation—expressed at the end of the review—at the lack of student-friendly businesses on Main Street. As the owner of
the Ben & Jerry’s store on Main Street, I am obviously very much interested in attracting student business. Many Ben
& Jerry’s stores located in other college towns enjoy strong relationships with their student neighbors. We would like to know
how we can better serve the interests and needs of Davidson students at our store.

We will set up a suggestion box specifically for Davidson students. Each month, we will review the suggestions and adopt
all that are feasible within our physical and operational constraints. In soliciting their suggestions, I would like to point out
to students that the reality of doing business in a town as small as Davidson requires appealing to all segments
of the community, not just students; but we will consider all ideas. We welcome this opportunity to learn your concerns,
and we thank you in advance for your contributions. And just to give this the ol’ Ben & Jerry’s spin...
We will award a free Vermonster for the best suggestion made each month!

Phyllis Schultz, Owner
Ben & Jerry’s

No Amherst Wannabe

To the Editors:

I feel compelled to correct an implication that was made in Heyward Carter’s “Backlash.” (Sept. 9) While he was being
somewhat tongue-in-cheek, I want to point out that a school without frats is not the social hell that everyone thinks
it might be. I was at Amherst College not too long after the frats were abolished (in the “Darwinist 80’s”,
mind you), and the social life there was as good as, if not better than many of the schools I
have visited. There was always at least one party every Wednesday through Saturday night (usually multiple ones on weekends). All
parties were completely open and very well attended. Parties were sponsored by houses and dorms: they were not sponsored by
the college, although if you wanted to get money for a party, the college would help out.

It should go without saying that this is not a diatribe on frats, but if I didn’t say that, I
would get a much bigger backlash. Frats or not, Davidson is not and never needs to be an Amherst wannabe.
Davidson is just as excellent in many ways and definitely has a unique character of its own. We probably don’t
need to worry about those “pecoeds computer programmers” here either.

Peter Sheldon
Visiting Assistant Professor of Physics

If you missed our salespeople, please rap gently on our chamber door and ask for your own Davidsonian t-shirt. Or
call Mary Clare at -2148.
