Fe MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1996 7 The Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA, LIBERTAS

Arts & Living Editor
JOHN COPENHAVER

Executive Editors
SUSAN RUGGIERO
GREG GARRISON
MARY CLARE JALONICK

Assoc. Arts & Living Editor
JILL WILLIAMS

Business Manager
CAROLINE BYNUM

Associate Editor
TERESA WHITE

Sports Editors
WILL BRADSHAW
MICHAEL KRUSE

Advertising Managers
BETH BACON
MEREDITH LUCIUS

News Editor
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL

Associate News Editor
RANDY HARTWELL

Photo Editor
BEN DeLISA

Circulation Manager
McNEIL CARSWELL

Opinions Editors
NINA BLOUNT
CARRIE BLACKBURN

Copy Editors
CLAY LENHART
KRISTEN RICHARDSON
JILL WILLIAMS

Web Page Managers
BRAD CHASE
DANIEL MOTZ
ERIC PENDERGRASS

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at: http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Drunk driving

At Wake Forest last Wednesday night, six sophomore women were headed to a party. They climbed in the car together
and began the short drive to an off-campus house a few blocks from the school. A few minutes later, a
drunk driver veered into the wrong side of the road and killed two of them. Two more were seriously injured.
Wake Forest now finds itself in the midst of memorial services and funerals, depressed get-togethers and trips to the hospital.

Just over an hour away, Davidson students are blatantly unaware, hopping in cars after nights of drinking all in the
name of “sleeping in my own bed.”

“I had my car at a party, and I was buzzed,” says one junior. “I didn’t want to go through
the trouble of walking back to campus from the party and then picking it up the next day. Although I
was intoxicated at the time, I hold myself entirely responsible for my action.”

“It was only a few blocks,” says another. “It’s just Davidson, and there are rarely other cars around.”

“I don’t think I would have necessarily done a breathalyzer test, but I don’t really consider it driving drunk,” says
a senior.

Another senior tells it like it is: “I wanted to go where I wanted to go, and I wanted to
go there right then.”

Within our memory, there have been no major drunk driving accidents here. We live by rationalization and precedent, often convincing
ourselves that everything will be just fine — just like last time. There is no way to eradicate drunk driving
completely. Sadly, tragedy usually has the strongest effect. But until more students begin to take responsibility for themselves, those who
throw the parties must begin to take responsibility for them. Bars follow this policy regularly; it shouldn’t be difficult for
one of our prestigious classmates to figure out how. Notice the sobriety of who is leaving. In short, think.

Still, a central place to drink (because people will drink) helps the situation. This last weekend most parties were off-campus,
leading several people to lie about their sobriety and hop into their cars. Many without cars also risked their safety,
walking long distances in the dark to off-campus houses. If parties could be kept on campus and attract students to
them, much of the problem would be eliminated. Hopefully, more houses will have parties after the first night down. As
of now, those looking for a party are driving to find them. Drunk driving happens. We cannot deny it, and
we must begin to take preventative action against it. Too many students risk their lives for a bed or a
beer. Too many of us let them.

The Measure of Value

Fabulous. We're eleven. Now that we have reached this prestigious number we can brag with something to back us up.
We are better than Washington and Lee, worse than Middlebury. We just have to get our numbers up in faculty
resources, but they are looking good in class size. Too bad we ranked low in the library category, but way
to go on the reputation!

This talk is silly. Davidson is Davidson, and Davidson ‘96 is no different from Davidson ‘95. The rankings are important
to perspectives who crunch numbers and long-range planners who study our weaknesses. These numbers, however, have been so blown out
of proportion that students themselves compare rankings with friends at other schools. When we fell to 21 last year, the
SGA wrote a letter of disappointment to U.S. News and World Report. John Kelton made a trip to Washington, D.C.
This was noble, and it says a lot about the commitment that Davidsonians have to Davidson. We hope U.S. News
took those gestures into account.

But we shouldn’t take our new-fangled-almost-top-ten-but-not-quite ranking to judge ourselves. We know that we are getting a good education, and
one magazine cannot tell us exactly how good that is — especially when it fluctuates so dramatically. Love or hate
Davidson for what it is, not for what they tell you it is.Published weekly on Monday during the spring term
by the students of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036.
Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year.
Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Simply Wrong

To the Editors:

Re: Your “go-gatchet” editorial is amusing and well written, but needlessly sneers at the Student Government “were all done in
the time it normally takes an SGA committee to be formed...” While it is easy, fashionable, and politically correct to
bash the SGA, this droll humor dismisses what the organization has accomplished, often after a considerable commitment from individual students.
Having no more elections to contest myself, I believe that your mirth is unfortunate and misleading. By marginalizing the student’s
leadership, it paints a depressing picture for the student body at large, and freshmen, who have yet to be elected,
in particular. Last but not least, I think it is simply wrong.

Saad Gul '97
President, Senior Class

No time for tears

To the Editors:

Listening to Dean Cable rattle off the awesome list of achievements of the Freshman Class, I felt my eyes begin
to well up with tears. I was overcome by pride in my new alma mater, and anxiety that I would
not measure up to my fellow students. But there was no time for sentimentality, and before the tears could trickle
down my cheek, it was on to a picnic lunch on Chambers Lawn, followed by the writing and foreign language
tests, a quick dinner with my parents and my roommate’s family, and an address by President Kuykendall, until, thoroughly exhausted,
I met my confoundedly enthusiastic and energetic hall counselors and the girls who would live on my hall for the
rest of the freshman year. I had just gotten back from the Odyssey that morning and had not had even
a few minutes to shower or change clothes. The last thing I was concerned with at that point was making
a good impression, much less venturing over to the Union to see a band play after our hall meeting was
finished. My mind was reduced to a primitive state in which my only thoughts were of a shower and sleep.

Perhaps this hectic schedule was devised to keep our minds and bodies so busy that we weren't overwhelmed by the
monumental transition we were about to make. Perhaps they hoped that in all this hustle and bustle, we wouldn’t have
time to focus on the more intimidating aspects of starting college—such as being thrust into a community of hundreds of
people you know nothing about and who likewise know nothing about you, or your parents leaving you to return home
thousands of miles away in the very midst of your class schedule crisis. If this was indeed the intended purpose
of orientation, it was a noble one, but admittedly a failure. The hectic schedule of orientation served only to intensify
my worries rather than alleviate them. Not only was I conscious of the transition point this represented in my life,
but I had also the added agitation of attempting to find my way to an endless string of one function
after another.

My parents offered little comfort when they told me this was merely an introduction to the busy life of a
college student. I prayed this was not true as I feared I would be forced to live out of the
boxes that still sat in my room for the rest of the year. Things did slow down quite a bit
after orientation—or I likely would not be writing this article. Even though the fact that I had just arrived back
from the Odyssey intensified the chaos of Freshman Orientation, I know I was not the only one overwhelmed by the
seemingly endless succession of events we were obligated to attend. While I realize the necessity of most of the events
during orientation (with the possible exception of the 1970s retro security video), I wish that these events could have been
a bit more spaced out, so as to give us time to settle into our dorms, meet the people on
our hall in a less stressful atmosphere, and just think about what this whole change in our lives meant to
us—in other words, to really become oriented. While I could suggest beginning orientation a day or two earlier, many would
object to this solution in favor of getting the whole orientation process over as quickly as possible. Thus, while I
am unable to offer a solution, I am able to recall the stress of orientation, and feel that one’s first
experience upon entering college should be a more pleasant one.

Brooke Shaffner

Give us your sympathy. Call x2148.
