THE DAVIDSONIAN ° ARTS & LIVING

Craves the Old Sting

By JAMES BERRY
Arts & Living Editor

Sting’s music has never been easy to pin down. Before, he led by example, riding the first foamy crests of
New Wave along with the Police and soon established a standard far above most 80s contemporaries. But more recent work
attracts few imitators because of its strength and singularity. Since his solo debut (The Dream of the Blue Turtles), Sting
has repeatedly bent genre to his whim, spawning a collage of styles that declares loyalty to none in particular. And
though it doesn’t meet the expectations set by previous albums, this year’s Mercury Falling (A&M Records) continues the tradition.

Sting follows the radio-friendly Ten Summoner’s Tales with obvious hope for repeated success. Mercury’s lyrical themes meander along the same
lines and remain, for the most part, conventional: pining over lost love, asserting independence, and reassuring continued affection. But we
are talking about Sting, so we can’t expect an attitude entirely mainstream. The country/western fixation that started with “Love is
Stronger Than Justice (The Magnificent Seven),” and carried through “This Cowboy Song,” returns in such songs as “I Hung My
Head,” “I’m So Happy I Can’t Stop Crying,” and “Lithium Sunset.” The haunting melody of “Valparaiso” safely avoids any semblance
of the typical by defying its listeners to find the beat while Sting croons about a seaman’s relationship with his
wife.

From the beginning, Sting’s lyrics tended toward political subjects as heard on “Russians” but this is little represented on Mercury.
Also, the darkly personal confessions of The Soul Cages have been cast off in favor of an upbeat wit applied
to various situations, the reason for which may lie within the words. In “I’m So Happy I Can’t Stop Crying,”
Sting asserts, “[e]verybody’s got to leave the darkness sometime.” By doing so, he has created an accessible, if watered down,
mix of the familiar and the eccentric.

Though Ten Summoner’s Tales marked a change in lyrical style, and the songs stubbornly refused to relate to one another
(Sting justified his decision by citing Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales as his model for the album), Tales’ music still had layered
guitars and distinct instrumental parts supporting the central melody. Mercury Falling falls short in many respects. On two of the
ten songs, Sting’s vocals don’t stray from the instrumental melody. Where is the counterpoint between guitar, strings, and vocals as
heard on “Mad About You”? What of the driving silliness in “Shadows in the Rain” or even the mellow, haltering
“Seven Days”? Mercury’s mosaic lacks the complexity and integration of its predecessors.

Every artist acknowledges the influence of past artists or musical trends, but Sting’s tribute, through manipulation of style, remains unequaled.
The cut and paste technique that started with Turtles still works, and Mercury’s musical conglomerations often break into a soulful
bridge or a lounge-influenced chorus, tempting us with short bursts of the bizarre, while the verse wanders the familiar path
of everyday pop. Of course, inherent within all of the music is a little unidentifiable “Sting” that can’t be categorized—the
same Sting who fronted the Police and thereby ascended the throne of rock goddom. His experiments with time signature introduce
musical ideas completely alien to rock. “I Hung My Head” bounces along with a catchy, though shifting, guitar part and
listeners used to a steady beat must grasp at Sting’s vocals for fear of being left by the wayside. It’s
a refreshing change from the ironically labelled “Alternative” music that floods airwaves with a homogenous blend of inane pop.

Mercury Falling sounds far better than a work in progress, but something seems absent nonetheless. Whether it lacks the passion,
the political voice of younger days, or the insistence for quality, the difference can be heard. Sting’s music is still
unique and compelling. But he’s starting to relax, starting to get comfortable, which might flush the excitement and exterminate the
edge important to making good music.

Women Compare Roles, Feminism

By EMILY SMITH
Staff Writer

Recently, the discussion of gender relations and women’s issues has been a dominant topic of debate on campus. However, this
subject is often limited to concerns in the United States or on Davidson’s campus. Students are rarely mindful of the
obstacles facing women that transcend our borders. Wednesday night, four international students offered Davidson the opportunity to broaden their awareness
of gender issues. Sponsored by the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies, the International Women’s Panel members addressed current topics
and shared insights on their respective countries. Their candid responses to questions of marriage, occupational roles, domestic abuse, and body
image revealed the variation in topics confronting women around the globe. Areas represented were the former Soviet Union, Ethiopia, India,
and East Asia.

Panelists noted the small scale of feminist movements in their countries. In fact, many underdeveloped nations do not even use
the term feminism. The concentration is on bettering life for women, not seeking equality. The male is essentially absent from
the topic of women’s rights. Instead, women are fighting for improvements in family planning and employment. Because women must work
to support the family income while maintaining their domestic role as mother and wife, their life is actually more difficult
than the male’s.

Women can easily find employment in the Soviet Union. Unfortunately, available jobs are stereotypical “women’s” roles. One panelist described a
newspaper advertisement that read, “Secretary wanted: 18-24 year old female. Must be good looking.” Freshman Samia Mohammed said that gender
relations are gradually becoming more liberal in Ethiopia. Although her own parents had an arranged marriage, she made it clear
that shewould not have one. The traditional arranged marriage is slowly becoming obsolete, and young women now have a voice
in choosing their spouse. Junior May Kee went on to address the subject of divorce in East Asia. Men have
the option to marry and divorce as they please, but women remain irreversibly branded if they get a divorce. She
described the tragic case of an educated and successful doctor who chose suicide over divorce. Perhaps the biggest contrast between
the US and the countries represented is the issue of body image. Mohammed said that the obsession women in America
have with their bodies is difficult for her to understand. In Ethiopia, most social activities include eating, and "skinny" women
are definitely not considered models for other women to follow. Mohammed is still amazed at the rituals of exercise and
rollercoaster dieting that are prevalent among young women in our society. May Kee said that the ideal Chinese woman is
five feet tall, demure, and obedient. Obviously, this ideology is not a reality for most women.

MONDAY, APRIL 1, 1996

By Dorcas AND MADGE

Call 1-900-FREE-LUV for intimate psychic counseling.

Consulting Astrologists

Aries (March 21-April 19)—Were you ever a congressional page? You need to slow down and stop leaving a trail of
fire behind you everywhere you go. Consider investing in futures—think soy. Soy, soy, soy!

Taurus (April 20-May 20)—There is only one solution to a Rubik's Cube. Go to Fred Astaire Dance Studio and learn
a new saraband. Begin collecting aggies and steelies. They rock and roll.

Gemini (May 21-June 20)—Encounter with a fiddler crab is imminent. Be nice to this crab, he does not have cooties
even though he has that big claw. Greet him bearing a Lady-slipper. It’s a flower, you can ask W.T. Lammers
about that.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)—They have great Dickies at Target. They are great for the cold weather we have been having.
You should also consider buying a farthingale. THEY ARE BACK, by popular demand.

Leo (July 23-August 22)—Beware of filter feeders—they are phlegmatic, but their baleen is threatening. Roar a sigh of relief Lion,
they do not subsist in Loch Norman.

Virgo (August 23-September 22)—Yentl is not a good movie. Those late fines are not worth it. A tundra buggy is
worth it for you this week. Or a good prairie schooner. They just don’t make ‘em like they used to.

Libra (September 23-October 22)—Get to know the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World... The Colossus at Rhodes, the Mausoleum of
Halicarnassus, the Hanging Gardens of Babylon, etc. Think cocktail party conversations.

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)—This weekend weigh your whelk which was wiggling wildly while your whippet whined. We, weevils, welcome weeny
weasels weaving white carpets. We warrant a war-weeping warthog in Wolverhampton.

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21)—You must know that you are not an owl. All you are doing is hurting your neck
with all of this silliness. Your Shatneresque antics will work in your favor on Tuesday at four.

Capricorn (December 22-January 19)—Cup and saucer races are jolly good fun. Imbibe a hot toddy before going to bed every
night this week. Mind the Gap, sly boots.

Aquarius (January 20-February 18)—Revamp your room, it is not worth a tinker’s damn. Follow the crafty sloth who is better
than any divining rod. He will lead you to water, although it may take time, it is worth your effort.

Pisces (February 19-March 20)—Take a poultice-making class. Sign-ups at the Union. Some suggested ingredients: cream of tartar, saffron threads, a
jellyfish, witch hazel, nightshade, mandrake root, cinnabar, dry ice, and Mello Yello.

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Penny
5 Impurities of molten metal
10 As blind as —
14 Medicinal plant
15 Traveled way
16 Cord
17 Bathe
18 Failed auto
19 Girl
20 Burns brightly
22 Frogs-to-be
24 Otherwise
26 Anchor
27 Unspoken
31 Des —
35 Simian creature
36 Illegal burning
38 Memorize
39 Loch — monster
41 MacGraw the actress
42 — qua non
43 In a — (fast)
45 Pulls
48 Contend
49 Mental health
51 Antlered animal
53 Servant
55 Old Greek portico
58 Weapons storehouses
64 Injury
65 Certain contract
67 Ark builder
68 On the ocean
69 Friend to Pythias
70 Thr
71 Sign of sorrow
72 Small, crested ducks
73 Canine cry

DOWN
1 Leg part
2 Israeli airline
3 Variable star
4 Abounded
5 Bureau
6 Stewart or Serling
7 Eject
8 Kind of engine
9 Infrequently
10 Weapons storehouses
11 Seethe
12 Church part
13 Hardy character
21 Fitzgerald
23 Natatorium
25 Composition
27 Things desired
28 Musical entertainment
29 Varnish ingredient
30 — system
32 Artless
33 Tennessee —
34 Scornful look
37 Playing cards
40 Oriental sword
44 And others: abbr.
46 Feline creatures
47 Kind of tire
50 Succumbs
52 Delicately beautiful
54 Reverie
56 The thing there
57 Misleading action
58 Length times width
59 Identical
61 Painful
62 Airplane part
63 Boutique
66 Scatter seed

Happy Birthday Catherine, you KArazy nut!
