THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1996

Only 60%
By IAN HUMMEL
Staff Writer

At the beginning of this year, Davidson embarked on a program designed to facilitate recycling on campus. The program included placing containers throughout the campus and residence halls in which virtually all recyclables (everything excluding wet waste and glass) could be placed together. According to Tony Owens, Building Services Manager for the Physical Plant and head of the recycling program, it is yet difficult to predict what the ultimate level of success for the program will be. This is due to the fact that the recycling compactor necessary for the program was connected only very recently. Owens said that the recyclables that had been compacted thus far were “looking good” in that the students were not allowing very much wet waste to get into the blue bags. He also said, however, that early approximations showed that as much as 60% of the recyclables are not making their way into the containers.

In addition to the obvious environmental gains of recycling, the aim of the program is economic. The program was designed to be more student-friendly as opposed to the programs of the past in which it was necessary for the students to separate the recyclables themselves.

“Into the Streets” targets housing, hunger, and the environment
from page 1

The walk proceeded to the cross-country trails, where Dr. Grant pointed out insects and patches of growth in a fieldwork exercise. According to Grant, a biology professor, ecology is not limited to the exotic rainforests or the tundra; it is all around us. “Into the Streets” is a national program designed to introduce students to thoughtful community service and problem-solving through partnership. The program was brought to Davidson by an ITS coalition consisting of students, faculty members, and residents of the community. Many more events are still to come, including volunteer work at the Senior Nutrition Center and the Uptown Men’s Shelter, a CROP walk, Fun Run, Community Lunch, and Highway Clean-Up Day. All students are encouraged to attend any or all events. Junior Liz Boehmler, chair of the environmental committee, says that “Into the Streets” is “a real moving and exciting program.”

Consumer Protection Committee gets green light
CPC will be steered by Dervan and Ch'ng
By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
News Editor

Davidson’s first Consumer Protection Committee (CPC) is now official. Last Tuesday a resolution regarding the committee’s purpose and responsibilities was adopted by the SGA Senate and two CPC co-chairs were approved. Senior Lucian Dervan will serve as the Senate Chairman of the committee, and Sophomore Toh Hean Ch’ng will fill the committee’s Student Body Chair position.

The CPC hopes to provide an organized voice for student opinion and concerns regarding the business organizations which provide services to the Davidson College student body. Says Dervan, who came up with the idea for the CPC this summer, “We hope to get an active group of committed [CPC] members.” Committee sign-ups will be held until Friday in the Union and in Chambers.

The CPC will collect feedback from students about how they feel about companies on campus as well as recommendations about these companies. In addition, says Dervan, the CPC will compile statistical evidence or hard proof regarding service problems. “We want numbers to back up student opinions and stories,” says Dervan, who continues, “We are not passing judgement on these companies ... [rather] we hope to figure out what’s really going on with monopolies on campus.”

As CPC co-chairs, Dervan and Ch’ng will serve a two-year term. At the end of this academic year, the CPC will issue a report on its findings. Subsequent reports will be produced every two years. Dervan says he “voiced interest in being the Senate Chair [of the CPC].” Ch’ng was “one of the first people I approached” about the student body chair position. Ch’ng had already written a report on the competitiveness of the international rates of Davidson’s long-distance phone carrier, BTI. “He was our top choice for the position,” says Dervan.

The expected increase in efficiency would decrease the amount of waste products, which would both decrease landfill costs as well as increase the amount of money the college could make from the sale of recyclables. Owens believes that it is an “excellent program,” but for it to prove itself profitable relies on student desire to cooperate. Meredith Judy, a coordinator of the student Recycling Committee, also emphasized the importance of student involvement, saying that for students the “best assistance is being responsible about recycling.”

Student files charges for message
from page 1

side and escorted to campus by car. Lee then returned to her room where she received a call from the police, who, according to Lee, had been informed that Neigert had knives and had threatened her. Shetold them what had happened. After hanging up, she checked her voicemail and heard a message left to her from Neigert. “I am the guy you hit,” he says, “... next time I see you I’m [going to] crack your neck and break your face ... you are going to f—— die ... When I am sober I will still remember this... You hit the wrong person ... next time you see me you may not be alive ... I am wasted now but I will not forget this ... you will f—— die, understand that, understand that, ... maybe you should transfer out before I get a hold of your ass ... girls do not f——ng hit me ... I will see you f——ing later.” Neigert says he remembers leaving the message. At this point, Lee forwarded this message to campus police, who she says encouraged her to drive to Charlotte and get a warrant for Neigert’s arrest. She did so around 6:30 in the morning.

Apparently, after leaving the message for Lee, Neigert wandered around his hall on second Belk. According to sophomore L.P. Hill, another resident of that hall, Neigert walked in and out of Hill’s room and mumbled something unintelligible. Hill told him to go to bed. Meanwhile, Machon, who had been at the party earlier when the scuffle occurred, was walking up the back stairs of Belk toward his room on fourth Belk when he saw Neigert “waving two knives, a butterfly knife and a Swiss Army knife.” He said that Neigert was mentioning Lee and trying to get to her room. Machon asked him where he was going and tried to calm him. “I knew that he was up to no good with two knives in his hand. I was really concerned.” He says that Neigert seemed calm after the two spoke for five to ten minutes. However, when Machon “unconsciously moved forward” Neigert sliced the top of Machon’s hand with the butterfly knife, cutting the tendon in his index finger and chipping part of the bone. “I wasn’t trying to take the knife away, but he might have thought I was,” says Machon. At this point, according to Machon, Neigert dropped the knives and took his shirt off to wrap Machon’s bleeding wound.

Hill was walking into the stairwell while all of this was happening. “I saw Chris talking to Rob, trying to calm him down, and it looked like [the cutting] just sort of happened. Rob was extremely apologetic, saying that it was all his fault. Chris wasn’t mad or angry, he just wanted to get his finger taken care of.” Machon, Neigert, and Hill all rushed to the infirmary, where staff took care of Machon’s wound. According to Neigert, he walked out of the infirmary and was picked up by Officer Moore. Neigert spent much of the night in custody at the Davidson College police station and was then arrested and taken to a Charlotte jail. A friend bailed him out with a $300 fine. Machon received around 30 stitches in his hand. He is taking heavy sedatives and is not sure how long it will be before he can do schoolwork. He filed a police report but maintains that he will not press charges. “If [Neigert] had been sober,” Machon says, “he wouldn’t have done this ... All I wanted to do was stop him from going over [to Lee’s room] ... there are no excuses for it, but I wanted to give him a break, because the charges would have been assault with a deadly illegal weapon ... he would have spent time in jail,” says Machon.

Neigert says his “drinking has stopped for good” and admits to Lee’s charge of “communicating a threat.” The trial is set for November 10. He expects to receive a fine and says that it doesn’t look like he will have to leave Davidson. “The worst part was hurting my friend. I learned a big lesson,” he says. Neigert’s mother called Machon on Sunday from Caracas, Venezuela and offered to pay for the surgery. Neigert feels “sorry that the whole thing happened,” saying that “I never drank before I came here. I was drinking [on Friday], and that was my fault ... it was the worst night of my life.” He also commented that he “didn’t know that knives were illegal [in North Carolina]” and he was “vent[ing] out depression and frustration.” He was angry that Lee had shoved him because it “is very offensive to a man if a girl hits him in South America.”

Associate Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano cannot comment about the case while it is still being investigated, but says that making threats and assaulting are Code of Responsibility violations, and that punishments up to indefinite suspension are possible ramifications for these transgressions. “The Honor Council decides whether a student can or cannot be part of the community.”