THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING

Swinging in the Rain
Student and visiting bands frolic in drizzly weather
By JAMES BERRY
Arts & Living Editor

Student acts take Spring Frolics by storm

While the sun disappeared by degrees behind an ominous block of rolling clouds, Richardson Field slowly drew a crowd of
carefree students. Spring was in the air. As the first of the student acts began to set up the stage,
air pumps feeding the circus amusements roared to life, and pugil-stick wars and bungee races broke out everywhere. Soda, cookies,
pizza, and even beer found their way into the hands of eager students. And the party was only just beginning.

The festivities began at four o’clock when Chas Victory and the Desuaves took the stage. The largest group of the
student acts, their setup included drums, bass, guitar, harmonica, and vocals, and it was obvious that their songs were the
product of complex jams. The resulting sound hinted at both classic rock and indie-alternative influences. Without any formal structure, the
songs meandered through surprisingly tight chord changes signaled only by a nod from the guitarist. Occasionally, the lead singer would
retire the cigarette from his lips and pump out a few lines of grainy lyrics before returning, with a satisfied
grin, to his former pastime.

The act following was a study in contrast. Miles Mowry decided that a seat on the grass looked more comfortable
than any stage and soon situated himself only a couple of feet from the lounging lookers-on. With only a guitar
and sitar, Miles kept his music on the side more mellow. His vocals carried an almost placable accent, his mouth
twisting with as much expression as the lyrics, and much of the crowd watched transfixed.

With two guitars, three voices, and a cello, Moxie was next to grace the stage. Opening with “Lucky Ball and
Chain” by They Might Be Giants, the trio kept their set fairly upbeat and odd. Guitarist Nathan Summerlin occasionally offered
comments to the crowd in the middle of the songs. Confusion peaked with a jumpy medley composed of the Vaseline’s
“Molly’s Lips” and “Blister in the Sun” by the Violent Femmes. The set closed with a version of “Cecilia” that
alternated between a cappella vocals and true-to-form acoustic guitar.

The last act of the afternoon was Ecdysis. Two voices and a guitar were all they needed to fill up
their sound. The songs ranged from self-proclaimed “sassy” (attitude in everything from rhythm to lyrics) to straightforward acoustic numbers. Almost
every melody had a harmony, and the two wove their vocals together in sometimes off-beat, sometimes echoing forms. Although there
was only one acoustic guitar, the sound remained full due to the strong vocals.

Top: Ecdysis plays. Bottom: ‘Da Zippas plays.

the Big Screen Room 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. p.m.-12 a.m.
Earth Day Celebration on Union Patio 11 a.m.-4 p.m.
Environmental Poetry Reading gives its ode to nature in Jumpin’ Java jump starts your week in the Outpost 8 Coffeehouse
in the 900 Room 8 a.m.-11 a.m.
Bone Marrow Drive—get typed in honor of all sufferers of cancer in Chambers Gallery 11 a.m.-2 p.m.
Carlos Chen—speaker from Guatemala speaks in the Morrison Room 7 p.m.-9 p.m.
Gerald Stern reads poetry and hosts the Vereen Bell Memorial Award for Creative Writing ceremony in the 900 Room 7:30
p.m.-9 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java launches your spring fever into high gear in the Outpost 8 p.m.-12 a.m.
Twenty-One Year Old Night relieves a little stress in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m.
Spring Convocation honors outstanding members of the campus in Love Auditorium 10:30 a.m.-12 p.m.
Student exhibition opens in the William H. Van Every Gallery. Reception for the artists in the VAC 4:30 p.m.
One-Act Plays continue with Naomi in the Living Room and The Conduct of Life in the Black Box Theater at
7 p.m.
Easy Rider carries you through the week in the 900 Room
Spring Frolics romps to ‘Da Zippas
Surrounded by the moonwalkEnclosure, tables for making your own cookie, a beer hut, Q-tip wars, rubber band racing, a giant
game of kickball, and crowds of frolicking students, The Squirrel Nut Zippers looked strangely at home. They were dressed to
kill (some time in the mid-70s), and whether they got their power from the butterfly collars or the grease holding
their hair back, something resonated. They had chutzpah. The stage was packed with performers (seven to be exact), and where
a performer wasn’t standing, an instrument was. The drummer sat in the back. Throughout the show, he wore an expression
of worry, though I could never figure out why. To his left, the bassist stood as most bassists stand—in a
perpetual daze, their fingers plucking at the strings and crawling across the neck with what looks like a total lack
of acknowledgment. A female vocalist/banjo player (banjoist?)/tambourine guru sat/stood in front of the bass and spent most of her time
looking a lot like Natalie Merchant. Next to her were the two lead vocalists. Each played electric guitar and one
of them wore his only a few inches below his chin. Trumpet came next, contorting his face with every insistent
note. And in the back, next to the drummer, sat a man on baritone sax. Despite the chill and looming
clouds, students flocked to Richardson as the band played on. At first, only a small, skeptical crowd gathered before the
stage but in the course of a few songs, the Zippers had collected a mass of cavorting bodies. The quick
beat and playful attitude lent itself to dancing. Those present could only comply, and groups of one, two, and three
hopped this way and that as if it was their last chance to strut their stuff. The music itself was
a complex weave of rhythm and style. Someone told me the technical term: swing. Whatever it was, the Zippers never
broke stride. Most of their songs raced along, horns jumping in at odd times, guitars chunking air-tight strokes, but that
didn’t stop them from slowing the set down every once in a while. As the sun disappeared, and the stage
lights took its place, the crowd was tantalized with a couple moody numbers. The vocalists suddenly transformed into lounge singers
and I became thoroughly transfixed. Their voices were incredible—dripping with character and a twisted earnestness. The crowd was obviously affected
as well. After a short huddle, the Zippers ended the show with a couple more heart-stopping tunes, and the crowd
appreciated it. Waves of applause from all directions erupted at their departure. While the crowd filed from the field, scooping
up free Spring Frolics '96 mugs on the way out, the announcement was made that more fun and excitement was
about to get started with a Latino band in the 900 Room. Will the fun ever end?

Crop Lunch—eat and donate for those who aren’t as fortunate in the 900 Room 11 a.m.-2 p.m.
Sexuality Forum spices up your night in the 900 Room 7 p.m.-11 p.m.
One-Act Plays again in the Black Box Theater 7 p.m.
Anne Miller senior exhibition opens in the Edward M. Smith Gallery in the VAC 10 a.m.-4 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java is stronger than ever in the Outpost 9:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m.
Reunion Weekend—smile for the alums 8 p.m.-10 p.m.
Easy Rider tops off your weekend in the 900 Room 8 p.m.
DC Concert Choir performs their spring concert in DCPC
South Asian Dance Performance puts a little rhythm in the night in Love Auditorium 8 p.m.-9:30 p.m.
Day at the Lake Campus—take a break from your work for a little frolicking in the sun 1 p.m.-5 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java gets your weekend hoppin’ in the Outpost 2 p.m.-6 p.m.
DC Dance Troop performs in Love Auditorium 7 p.m.-8 p.m.
Saturday Night Live is a barrel of laughs in the 900 Room
Jumpin’ Java serves up some relaxation before the week hits. Outpost—8 p.m.-12 a.m.
Fun ends May 9.
