OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1996

Reneé Radford

What's the Big Deal about homecoming?

“What’s all the commotion about?” I asked myself as I watched the excitement begin. Questions had been floating through the
air weeks earlier, but now the heat was on. “Are you going?” was all one had to ask. To wonder
“go where” would have been absurd! Wait! Before I go any further, for those of you who are still confused,
I am referring to Davidson’s Football Homecoming ‘96!

Now, was it just me or did every conversation you have last week begin with, “Are you going?” For those
of you who can relate thus far, realize that your answer to this question was very crucial. If you were
one of those unfortunate souls who replied “No,” you were first given that dazed glare that said “What?” followed by
a severe verbal reprimand. Oh, but it didn’t stop there now, did it? Then came the “Why not’s” and the
“How come’s”! Didn’t you just want to scream, “Shut up! I’m not going because I’m not!”

Don’t worry, those of you who responded “No” were not alone in being verbally beaten. Let’s take a look at
the flip side. I bet you thought that if you said “Yes” when asked if you were going, it would
be just grand. WRONG! You got the worst bombardment of questions! “Hey Karen, are you going?” “Yeah!” “With who? Where
are you going to eat? What are you wearing? How are you going to do your hair? Are you going
to the game? Are you going to any frat house? If so, which ones? What time are you getting ready?
What time is he picking you up? What time are you leaving? Etc, etc, etc...” The next thing you knew,
the conversation was over and all you had a chance to say was “Yes”!

I hope those of you who responded “Yes” didn’t get too worked up over the fact that you were only
given the opportunity to confirm your intentions of attending the weekend festivities. I say this because all of your dear
friends’ questions were answered on Saturday, and boy did these “friends” have something to say about you! Wipe that confused
look off of your face! You know exactly what I am talking about! This was undoubtedly the best part of
Homecoming weekend... The Gossip!! I never heard so much bad mouthing in my life! “Did you see what Susie Mae
had on? I can’t believe she had the nerve to wear that dress! She knows she is too big for
that dress! Doesn’t she know the meaning of semi-formal? How could Billy Bob have the nerve to wear that tie
with that suit? It is a total fashion no-no! I can’t believe she was bold enough to wear those white
shoes! Didn’t they go out of season three weeks ago?” Sound familiar? I thought it would!

So, my question to you is this: Why make such a big deal about the preparations and occurrences of Homecoming
if, when it’s all said and done, you are just going to talk about your so-called best buddies? Are we
not recognized as the world’s finest students? Were we not raised to be kind to our fellow man? Whatever happened
to “do unto others as you would have them do unto you”? Oh, I get it! That would be too
much like right and, therefore, take away all of the fun. I guess I'll keep that in mind when spring
formals come around!

Alex Obregon

Davidson tradition?

Homecoming weekend is traditionally one of the biggest, most anticipated weekends during the Davidson school year, and rightly so. More
than the first home football game, it is a celebration of both alumni and current students alike, of Davidson College
as home, an active part in who we are and what we will become. As a freshman, I looked forward
to Homecoming Weekend because I wanted to experience Davidson tradition to the full extent, and subsequently become a part of
it. Since the beginning of the semester, I had heard nothing but great things about homecoming, with the fact that
my high school didn’t have a “homecoming” probably adding to my excitement.

What I didn’t realize was that fraternities invited only freshmen guys; the logic behind this being that the guys would
in turn ask freshmen girls. But where does that leave me? My boyfriend does not go to Davidson, and therefore
could not possibly be invited to the fraternity activities. Yet again, I found myself excluded from the homecoming festivities. Freshmen
have been allowed on Patterson Court for only a week, and already we have to deal with the pressure of
social acceptance without getting a real taste of the school spirit that comes from celebrating homecoming. Why?

One of the things that attracted me to Davidson was that it didn’t have a strict Greek system, and that
there is no pressure for students to join fraternities or eating houses since all Patterson Court functions are open to
all students — at least that’s what I thought. I later realized that freshmen can be invited to any one
of the fraternity formals by a member of one of the fraternities, which calmed my worries. However, the answer was
that homecoming...For fra- adding to my excitement, what they kept saying at Watch some Wildcat, Discover Davidson, football, get dressed
up. Davidson is our home? That’s certainly not the message I’ve gotten from homecoming weekend. Out of the 244 males
in the freshmen class, each fraternity invites an average of 50 guys. This figure seems to indicate that all guys
get invited somewhere, but in reality, some get invited to 3 or 4 fraternities, and some to none at all.
I understand that a fraternity cannot expect to rush the entire freshman class, so somewhere along the way it has
to narrow the group down. But why use a weekend that is supposed to be a Davidson College tradition for
this? Why deliberately exclude students from something that is based on the idea that Davidson is our home? Wouldn’t you
invite your entire family to a family reunion?

I had a good time on homecoming; I would even go as far as to say it was better than
average, but something about walking around the Court on Saturday night wondering where I was allowed and where I wasn’t
makes me think Davidson isn’t quite home yet.

Things are really falling apart in my apartment. I’m not sure my roommates and I will be able to make
it through the month of October. Friends since freshman year, we’ve been through it all: laugh, cry, puke, pee, scream,
wig, pass, fail, etc. We’ve seen each other heart-breaking, head-standing, crash-dieting, Bubba’s-barbecuing, running-manning, meeting-leading, goal-scoring, masterpiece-painting, opinions-writing, couch-sleeping, and more.
I think, however, we may have met our friendship match: Baseball.

Although several of us have roomed together before, we have never had such a volatile and passionate baseball situation before.
There are five of us. One is from Birmingham, so life is all about Roll Tide for her; baseball is
just something to watch when the ‘Bama game isn’t on. One is from New Jersey... no home-state baseball team, no
team loyalties. That leaves three of us. One is from Atlanta and probably came Tomahawkin’ out of the womb. One
is from an hour outside of Baltimore and has a family history of starting the wave at Orioles’ games. I’m
a third-generation Yankee fan with a grandfather who grew up in the shadow of Yankee Stadium in the Bronx.

For those of you who don’t follow baseball, all three of the aforementioned teams have made it to the playoffs.
In the apartment, the three of us are very supportive of each other’s teams... for now. We always root for
the other teams, just to be nice. “The O’s won last night? Fantastic.” The problem is going to really erupt,
however, when the teams have to play each other. I love my friend from Pennsylvania, but if the Orioles play
the Yankees, all bets are off. None of this “it’s just a game” crap. War. Even worse, what happens if
one of our teams has to play the Braves in the World Series? Who does the odd-man-out root for? Will
it be two-against-one then? I don’t know if our relationship can survive this. I don’t know if I can brush
my teeth next to someone I know is rooting against the Yankees. How can I cook dinner with someone who
is praying they lose? Blasphemy from the mouths of angels, I tell you.

Baseball is the great equalizer. We keep it in the same place in our hearts as we keep summer and
squirt-guns and Thanksgiving. It is our history and our future and it helps keep us American. There are only about
three more weeks of baseball until next spring, so if you haven’t gotten to watch any yet, now is the
time. The next few weeks hold some great games. In the end, with such a great sport, it may spark
some of the best memories, as long as it’s the Yankees and not one of the teams those bitches in
my apartment are rooting for.
