NEWS
Hamlin, Everett, Beachem: planning a new year for the Union

Lora CHAVIS
Staff Writer

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS BRIEFS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1996

No exceptions, stickers will be checked

Like last semester, Patterson Court parties will be open only to those students who display a PCC sticker on their
school ID cards.

Members of Court Houses will receive these stickers through their House, and independents must purchase a sticker at a cost
of $10 in order to attend any court party this semester.

Stickers will be on sale in Chambers gallery on Tuesday and Wednesday.

Ashley Maner, newly elected PCC Secretary, says that although enforcement of the sticker policy grew lax last semester, the PCC
is determined that the admittance policy will be upheld in the coming months.

“We're really going to try to enforce [the policy] this semester,” says Susie Spressert, PCC Treasurer, “if you don’t have
the proper PCC sticker on the back of your ID, you won’t be let in.”

SGA inaugurates new leadership

Last term’s SGA President Bill Gullan passed his title to recently elected Warren Buford last Sunday evening in Chambers gallery.

The inauguration ceremony, attended by the SGA Senate, college president John Kuykendal, and friends and family of the participants, welcomed
SGA’s new leaders.

After Gullan’s final remarks as outgoing president, Buford and new SGA Vice President Clair Freeman took their oaths of office.
Buford then gave his first remarks as SGA president.

—compiled by Kirsten Recknagel

—ATTENTION—
JUNIORS, SOPHOMORES, FRESHMEN:

Sign ups in the Dean of Students Office Feb 6—Feb 12 for serving on a five-member Student Advisory Council to
the Board of Trustees for the Presidential Search. Interviews by SGA members will be held next week. Students must be
available to meet a few times during the summer.

CAMP

Box #919 Brevard, N.C., 28712

SUMMER JOBS!

Join our High-Adventure staff family for the summer of 1996!!

THE EXPERIENCE OF A LIFETIME!!!
We will be at your school on 2-7-96.

Call for an appointment with Cha-Cha, Rob, Dan, Alfred, or Nath. For more information call 1-800-551-9136

CAROLINA

1996 is not the year for close calls or vigorous campaigns. Without opposition, Sara Beth Hamlin slid into the president’s
seat of the Union Board last week.

Jenny Everett also became the Union Board’s new Co-Curricular Vice President without a race.

However, Mecie Beachem had to fight for her new position. The only Union Board candidate with opposition, she beat Jason
Schmidt to become Social Vice-President.

Meanwhile, the comfort of a definite position gave Hamlin time to begin deciding some specific goals for the Union Board’s
future.

Hamlin says she wants the Union Board to help bring faculty, staff, and students together in a way that is
informal and non-academic.

She would also like to see the Union Board working closer with the Patterson Court Council, SGA, and Reach Out
to bring all facets of the community together.

With these new goals in mind, Hamlin gives credit to her predecessors.

“The upcoming Union Board can do nothing but succeed because of the groundwork the present Union Board has done,” she
says.

Hamlin also stresses that she “would like to see more involvement in the Union as a whole, more opportunity for
campus-wide interaction on a social level, even more stimulating programs which provoke thought and discussion, and an increased campus-wide awareness
of the countless opportunities available in the Union, through creative communication and personal contact.”

The current Union Board made a promise to have events available every weekend for students. With this goal accomplished, Hamlin
hopes to sustain its success.

Everett says, “What makes or breaks the Union is the new board, so it is important to choose the best
one possible.” She encourages everyone interested to make sure they sign up for interviews.

Students may sign up to interview for the various Board positions at the Union desk beginning February 4th.

According to Hamlin, those selected will be the heart of the success for the new Union Board.

She says they are looking for energetic individuals with some creative ideas to carry out these jobs.

Beachem says, “I would like to see a diverse group of people who want to work hard and have fun.”

However, the success rests also on students’ willingness and time to begin the events which the Union Board creates, says
Hamlin.

She states that the Union Board has made weekend programming available for everyone, but she hopes throughout the upcoming year
more students will take advantage of Union opportunities.

She says, “Currently many students take the Union Board for granted, but I hope that this attitude diminishes as the
Union Board proves for yet another year that we are sincerely devoted to the interests of the student body. I
can only predict wonderful things for this College Union in the next year.”

RESULTS

Brad House and Deborah Mitan (not pictured), Defense Advisors
“We look forward to supporting the honor system and contributing to its efficiency.”

Amy Lindstrom and Sallie Permar, Student Solicitors
Permar: “I look forward to learning the process behind the honor system.”
Lindstrom: “It will be a lot of hard work, but it will be a good experience.”

Caroline Polster and Matt Rich, Council for Campus and Religious Life (CCRL)
“We hope that we can have a positive impact on the campus as a whole as we serve the students
of Davidson.”

Katie Brasfield and Bill Abrams, President and Vice-President of Reach Out
Abrams: “My idea for this next year is to try to make Reach Out a presence on campus as a
service entity, and I think it is important that people spend at least some of their time trying to do
something outside of themselves.”
