ORTA LLIBERTAS  
VOLUME LXXXVII  
MONDAY, APRIL 1, 1996  
NUMBER 22  

Sophomore dorms will receive face-lift.  
Rooms down the hill may have cable, ethernet access in each room  
By Brad D. Chase  
Staff Writer  

While most students will be sitting out in the sun, traveling, or trying to make a few bucks this summer, major renovations will be taking place in Knox, Irwin, and Akers dormitories. Built in the mid-1970s, the sophomore dorms were designed to last only 20 or 25 years before needing renovation. Unfortunately, when the dorms were built, long-term use and efficiency were not considered.  

Director of Residence Life Kurt Holmes outlined the areas that students will find more visible. “The dorms will be re-carpeted and re-painted this summer,” Holmes says. The dorms will also undergo some structural changes. Three rooms on each floor are being turned into what Holmes termed “natural singles.” During this process, these singles will be made slightly smaller in order to accommodate built-in closets in the double rooms. The upstairs lounge in each of the buildings is also being converted into two double rooms. Holmes says, “There just wasn’t a need to have two lounges in each building.”  

Possibly the biggest change affecting the dorms is the wiring for cable and ethernet. Each room will have a cable and an ethernet outlet. However, Holmes says, “We are not sure that the actual outlets will be hooked up. It is a good probability that each room will have these outlets, but that they will be non-functional next year. Until Trellis Communications gets back to us, we don’t know exactly what will happen.”  

The plans are also calling for an added front porch on each of the dorms which would provide for covered bike racks. Additional changes include changing the hot water system to gas and replacing the existing heating and cooling system so that each room has an individual thermostat. “In the past, students have complained about the climate control system, so we are trying to fix that,” Holmes says. In the process of fixing the climate control systems, an additional closet will have to be made, and will result in the loss of one toilet in each of the bathrooms.  

Holmes  

See Lucky freshmen on BYOB campus?  

Ad-Hoc committee to hold open forum Tues.  
By Mary Clare Jalonick  
Executive Editor  

As committees meet and higher-ups discuss alcohol issues, the campus continues to wonder what will happen if the ban on kegs (proposed by the self-study) is approved. Several committees of students, faculty, and staff exist to talk about the issue at hand: will the campus go BYOB, and if so, then how will it work? The CCRL (Council on Campus and Religious Life)  

Faculty vote on minors Tuesday  
By Kirsten Recknagel  
Assistant News Editor  

As the clock runs down on Davidson’s latest academic issue — the institution of minors — the Council on Academic Affairs is planning a campus-wide push for awareness of minors’ last hurdle, the faculty vote. This vote, in which all faculty will take part, is scheduled to be held this Tuesday.  

Junior Liz Abernathy, President of the Council on Academic Affairs, says, “If minors don’t pass, it should be a while before our committee pursues them again unless there is just overwhelming student support for them. But we’re trying to be positive and hope that they pass.”  

As of last week, the Council on Academic Affairs had collected almost 600 student signatures in support of minors. Even passage of the resolution will not ensure that minors  

See Minors on page 3WEEK - First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1

Page 2

By NARESH NAGELLA
Assistant News Editor

According to a Davidsonian telepoll, 69% of surveyed students are not happy with the state of gender relations on campus. The poll was conducted by calling a random sampling of 88 students.

Self-Study Series

These results come as no surprise to the subcommittee on women’s issues for the Self Study on the Student Experience. Among the many concerns raised by the study, gender relations became a priority recommendation, stating, “The campus should work to promote an atmosphere that does not promote the disparagement of women.”

This semester has been no exception to the debate. As seen by the controversy surrounding Patterson Court’s events from “Hook Night,” “Ladies Night,” and the proposed “Pimp and Ho” party on Patterson Court, Davidson males and females do not always seem to be communicating on the same wavelength. Sophomore Vinod Thomas says, “It seems that every semester one of the biggest controversies has to do with gender relations.”

Kappa Sigma President David Wick says he does "not believe the problem is as big as it is made up to be.” But, he also agrees, “The school should provide more opportunities to interact besides Patterson Court.”

One poll respondent said, “Even though I have no personal problems [with the state of gender relations], the atmosphere just seems to be negative.” That theme was echoed throughout the polling. As the numbers and recent campus debate indicate, problems between genders at Davidson will not be easily resolved.

Even the Self Study is uncharacteristically vague on how to solve the problem. It does say that “other areas of interaction between the sexes should exist other than Patterson Court.” But, it does not offer any specifics, besides possible events in the new Union, as to how that can be possibly achieved in the near future.

That does not mean answers to helping the situation are not available. One possible solution, suggested by self-study coordinators, could be sessions to promote “sensitivity” between males and females. These efforts would take place during the freshman year. It is hoped it will provide an alternate method of interaction for girls and guys to meet other than hall mixers or the Court.

The designers of such meetings do not want the sessions to always deal with gender relations. Instead, they would simply provide a non-academic and non-social forum to discuss anything.

Dean of Students Tom Shandley says, “I would not use the phrase ‘sensitivity training’,” but does hope that “some aspects of the program could be phased into PE 101.”

Another group of students are taking a more direct approach to the problem. Freshman Jordan deBree is part of an effort to establish a coed eating house. Davidson has had such a house in the past, but it fell apart in the early 80s. deBree says, “The house would serve as an excellent way for Patterson Court to bring girls and guys together instead of drive them apart. The Court is the one thing that all Davidson students can participate in and that is unique to Davidson. However, it seems as if most gender problems originate from the Court. Our House will try to fix that.”

One plan that many believe

Davidson, NC 28036

How well do the genders really get along at Davidson? Josh Glazer.

See Genders on page 5

Sunny Ray, Ike’s back. We’ve missed him. Learn about Crew cuts keeps the Fern through the water clouds away.

NEWS 5 | Opinions 8 | ARTS & LIVING 10 | SPORTS 14