Che Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1996 VOLUME 88, NUMBER 9

Many Davidson graduates delay grad programs

By RANDY HARTWELL
News Editor

Statistics published by the Office of Career Services about recent graduating classes might at first appear alarming. In the Senior
Survey of the Class of 1994, 328 members of the 393-person class responded. 181 graduates, or 55% of the class,
went on to full-time employment, while 107 graduates, or 33% of the class, planned on continuing their education in graduate
school programs. Of the 350 respondents of the 371-member Class of 1995, 194 graduates, or 61% of the class, said
they would be employed full-time upon graduation, while 69 graduates, or 22% of the class, said they would be going
on to graduate school. Data on the Class of 1996 are not yet available, but will likely show a similar
increase in the number of seniors seeking employment, coupled with a decrease in the number of seniors entering graduate programs.

However, Director of Career Services Carol Jordan maintains that the lower number of graduating seniors heading directly to graduate school
reflects a nationwide trend, and is not unique to Davidson students. Also, the surveys rely only on graduates’ most immediate
plans and do not demonstrate the intent of many alumni to attend graduate school after working for a few years.

Jordan offers several reasons why fewer graduating seniors at Davidson are entering graduate study programs upon receipt of diplomas. Part
of the decrease, she says, is due simply to age. “Graduate and professional schools are looking for older students,” she
says, citing average ages of law school matriculants at 27, those of medical school at 28, and PhD. candidates at
32 or 33.

Age, of course, is closely related to experience, and most college graduates, Jordan says, “do not have practical experience in
a particular field.” Many seniors choose to find internships or entry-level positions in their fields of interest to gain valuable
time on the job and insight. Jobs like these can also help gauge the level of commitment to the profession.
“You have to be sure [graduate school] is what you want,” Jordan says. “Uncertainty comes across in an application.”

As college costs continue to skyrocket, incurred debt can also factor into the delay in graduate school attendance. Students who
don’t have the means to enter graduate programs immediately often say, according to Jordan, that “they’d rather work.”

One reason to wait to enter professional programs that looms hugely on many graduates’ horizons is just that the competition
is a lot stiffer than in previous years. Entrance at many schools is so tough that scores from standardized tests
such as the MCAT, LSAT, GRE, and others provide an easy initial screening, so if a graduate’s scores aren’t high
enough, their application isn’t considered.

See Grad on page 5

Humanities course comes up for debate

By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
News Editor

Davidson’s Humanities course, a two-year survey of the history of Western Civilization, may not be offered in the coming years
if the Educational Policy Committee finds merit ina proposal submitted to them by several professors two weeks ago. The proposal
suggests that the Humanities course be replaced with writing seminars for first-year students. Dr. David Kaylor, a religion professor who
is also a professor in the Humanities program, is one of six professors who submitted the writing seminar proposal. According
to Kaylor, improving the teaching of writing skills was a primary concern of those professors who developed the proposal. He
says he is not alone among the Humanities staff in feeling that in terms of writing ability, students sometimes seem
to be “just about in the same place when they leave [at the end of the semester] as when they
came to me.” Not all of those who submitted the proposal are involved in the Humanities program. Kaylor notes that
an assessment of the Humanities program will take place this spring, and says, “It seemed an opportune time to put
this idea forward.” The Humanities program is unique in that it enables professors of a range of disciplines, rather than
just the English department, to teach writing skills. Kaylor says,

See Proposal on page 2

Jasper’s isn’t worth it. 8

ARTS 1

Fun for the whole family...chivalry and Pakistan.

OPINIONS

WHAT, NO DIPLOMA?

Only seven months to go! Seniors Seth Clippard and Jennifer Hibbert grin for Mom and Dad after Fall Convocation, held
Saturday morning in Love Auditorium. Many seniors attended this year after the ceremony was moved back to be held during
Parents Weekend. Several parents and students headed to the football game later in the afternoon, while others held cocktail parties
and luncheons for future grads and underclassmen.

Martin Science to renovate with NSF grant

By ALEX OBREGON
Staff Writer

The chemistry department is currently looking forward to some long-awaited changes and renovations in the Martin Science Building, set to
begin immediately after the spring semester.

Nina Clippard

Damn Yankees.

SPORTS 14

the STH ITS asrerigy ees up to current standards and allow faculty and students to work closer together. These renovations
are possible thanks to a $400,000 Science Infrastructure Grant recently awarded to Davidson College by the National Science Foundation. Davidson
submitted a proposal to renovate the facilities available in the Martin Science Building written by Dr. Merlyn Schuc, Chemistry Department
Chair currently on sabbatical, in collaboration with Bob Collins, Director of the Physical Plant. The plans for these renovations, which
are not yet final, involve the current laboratory facilities located on the second floor of the Martin Science Building, according
to Acting Department Chair Dr. Felix Carroll. Three new faculty research labs will be built, along with an organic chemistry
research lab and a physical/analytical research lab, both of which will be for the use of chemistry students. Along with
the new labs, two shared instrument rooms and a computer lab are also in the plans. According to a project
summary included in the proposal submitted to the NSF, these renova-

See Martin on page 2

HOROSCOPE............ 13

SPORTS i555 Gis. 14

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
