THE DAVIDSONIAN  
MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 1996

The Davidsonian  
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors  
MANDY CURTIS  
JOHN COPENHAVER

Arts & Living Editor  
KATHERINE HASH

Business Manager  
ROBERT RAMSAY

Assistant Arts & Living Editor  
TERESA WHITE

Operations Manager  
JOSHUA BUCHANAN

Associate Editors  
WILLIAM ROBERT  
RUSS TARVER

Sports Editor  
MATT PITZER

Advertising Managers  
MEREDITH BENKE  
BEN GRIFFIN

Assistant News Editor  
JOANNA JOHNSON

Photography Editor  
BONNER MEAD

ROB KOSICKI

Opinions Editor  
JEFF KENT

Assistant Photography Editor  
CHLOE BROOKE

Circulation Manager  
BRANDON CLARRE

Founded in 1914  
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

LETTERS

Standing Ovation

Those of us who have been around for a couple of years have witnessed the passing of three inimitable Davidson institutions. The retirement of Dean of Students Will Terry, the death of Archivist Chalmers Davidson, and now the coming retirement of President John Kuykendall come as shocks to we who considered these figures eternal. Just as our parents, our coaches, our idols, and our heroes represent, for the most part, a greatness that we believe unattainable in ourselves, these men of Davidson College have been a part of our lives and our experiences. They are, we believe, irreplaceable.

Who could fill the empty office of Will Terry, where many of us lounged for hours discussing anything but student issues? Similarly, John Kuykendall has molded here an invisible tribute to his brilliance, and no one can conceivably tear that down or supplant it. Actually, though, none of these men will be replaced. Their legacies will endure. Kuykendall’s memory and spirit will be ever-present. Now, there will be a new creation. When Dean of Students Tom Shandley came to Davidson, his ability to replace Terry was questioned; but Shandley has established something new. And the new president of Davidson College will do the same. He or she will take what is given, and without destroying the monument to Kuykendall that exists in all our minds, the new leader will begin a sculpture in his or her own honor.

Greatness cannot be erased. The actions and achievements of those we consider outstanding are the invisible tributes, and they will always be remembered. Does Lincoln’s greatness suffer any reduction because Grant was elected? Have we forgotten Humphrey Bogart merely because Harrison Ford recreated his role? Absolutely not. The men who followed created their own legacies—perhaps dubious, but deserved.

We think about this a great deal here at Davidson, where accomplishments are for some of us the blood that fills our veins. Achieving the highest apex of our potential and making a lasting impression are for some of us the ultimate and purest goals. By senior year, we feel that we have done something, made something, of ourselves and of our time here. And then we leave. It is frightening to think that all we have done will now be taken over. The Court houses we led are in the hands of others. The SGA is given a different administration. The major in which we live by now has its own up-and-comers. The newspaper is passed on to different hands. Our carrels will soon be taken away. And we may believe our impact will be taken away, too. We may believe that when we exit the things that we have done here will be forgotten, and the work we have done will be proven vain.

But, like the past, present, and future presidents of Davidson College, we will be remembered. We will move on to create another artwork, to impact another place, and...To establish our own irrefutable greatness.

Gift Market Success

To the editors,

I am happy to report that the Alternative Gift Market was a huge success for the third consecutive year. Thank you to all of the people and organizations that were part of the gift market, and especially thank you to all those who purchased alternative gifts. The Alternative Gift Market here at Davidson College raised over $6800, including the money that was donated to the three independent groups represented at the event. Davidson United Methodist Church, hosting an Alternative Gift Market the same day, raised an additional $8000. Overall, a sizable contribution was made to global charities from the community of Davidson. This is a refreshing and appropriate way to celebrate the holiday season.

Some of the highlights from Davidson College’s Alternative Gift Market this year include a donation of $830 to buy medical supplies for Bosnia and $490 donated for adult literacy programs in Appalachia. Also, Davidson’s Habitat House received holiday donations totaling $750 at the gift market. It is very exciting to see this community keep the Alternative Gift Market alive here at Davidson for years to come.

Sincerely,
Laura Jones ‘96

Film Fest and Fruitful Discussion

Dear Davidsonian,

Thank you for agreeing to publicize Davidson College’s first (and, we hope, annual) film festival! The idea for the festival arose last spring from a dialogue between members of the College Union’s Film Committee and the Women’s Issues Committee. Inspired by national and foreign film festivals, our festival attempts to showcase films that may not necessarily be familiar to mainstream cinema viewing audiences.

We hope that the festival will provide a forum for intellectual as well as social discourse, raising issues such as race, gender, violence, community, and representation of females in film. These issues are not merely important to students here at Davidson, but are important for all of us, as citizens of a vast and expanding political community. We want this to be not only a College but a community event. We are very excited about bringing these films to campus, and hope they will encourage generative and fruitful discussion. We hope that the issues raised and the ensuing dialogue will involve students, faculty and staff, and members of the larger community.

Please contact Meg Wolff at -6737 or Letitia Campbell at -6810 if you have any questions.

Sincerely,
Prof. Sara Beasley
Letitia Campbell
Meg Wolff
Adam Knapp

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

ELECTIONS

Sign-ups will be held in the Dean of Student’s Office until Thursday, Jan. 25 at 5 p.m. Open positions include SGA President, SGA Vice President, Union President, Union Vice President (Social), Union Vice President (Co-Curricular), Defense Advisor, Student Solicitor, Student Conduct Council, CCRL, and Review Board. Candidates interested in an interview with The Davidsonian should contact Mandy Curtis at -2148 or -6626 to pick up questions to be answered and returned by Wednesday, Jan. 24 at 12 p.m.