SPORTS MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 1996

A few final words
By Matt Pirzer, Sports Editor

You all are probably sick and tired of columns such as the one I’m about to write. But endure with
me for just a few minutes. Yes, I know it’s getting on toward the end of January, making this article
a little dated.

ACCORDING TO SCHOON

However, I feel compelled to share some observations and insights about the last year before I shuttle on out of
here (if any of you care, I’ll be out of your hair after this issue). First of all, congratulations are
in order once again for the men’s and women’s soccer teams and the field hockey squad. Few teams are lucky
enough to win the last game of their respective seasons. All of you should be proud. Seniors, doubly so.

Let’s all welcome Jim Murphy, when our new athletic director moves into his nice, plush office down in Baker on
Feb. 1. Mr. Murphy, you have a tough job here. Maintaining athletics at its current level at the smallest coeducational
Division I school will not be an easy task. And here’s one recommendation you’re probably not seeking. Put to rest
all this talk about dropping from D-I for the final time. At the risk of angering and offending some otherwise
decent people, those of you who advocate Division III athletics are, in a word, misguided. When else have you seen
a campus come together as it did?

See Schoon on page 15

By MICHAEL KRUSE, Staff Writer

During its first two seasons as members of the Southern Conference, the Davidson women’s basketball team compiled a 9-43 overall
record, including an 0-26 conference mark.

WOMEN’S BASKETBALL

Now in its third year, the revitalized squad stands at 8-6, but even with the improvement, a Jan. 4 loss
at Furman, after holding a 13-point halftime advantage, extended conference futility to 27 consecutive contests. Point guards Monica Winter and
Elizabeth DuBose each said in this year’s media guide that their greatest moment on the court would be winning their
first Southern Conference game. After the Cats trounced Western Carolina on Jan. 13, 63-44, finally earning that victory, both Winter
and DuBose can now aim for bigger and better aspirations.

“It’s been a long time coming. All the struggles were really worth it. It was nice to do it that
convincingly, to be able to do it at home (and) to have the seniors play such a nice role in
it, too,” coach John Filar said.

With the score knotted at 17 with 7:34 left before intermission, the Wildcats rattled off 17 unanswered points to claim
a 34-17 lead at the half. In the second frame, Davidson picked up right where it left off, at one
point holding a 25-point advantage, as they coasted to the memorable triumph. Sophomore sharp-shooter Jennifer Sanborn starred, tallying 18 points
on 7-for-10 shooting from the field, including 3-for-4 from three-point range. Carolyn Kirsch, who averages a team-leading 13 points per
game, controlled the boards with a team-best 11 rebounds. Kristen Ferrucci returned from a knee injury and scored six points
in abbreviated playing time.

The win was especially satisfying, following a disappointing 1-2 performance over the break, consisting not only of the 73-64 setback
against Furman, but also a 59-54 away loss to Maryland-Baltimore County. Their lone victory was a lopsided 76-31 encounter against
Army, in which five Wildcats scored in double figures. Jamie Brown led the way with 13 points and Montrella contributed
12, while Jennie Vanlerberghe and Jessie Young each scored 11. Young shot a perfect 4-for-4 from the field, 3-for-3 from
long distance, in her 13 minutes of action. Kirsch recorded a double-double, collecting 10 points and 11 rebounds. Danielle Mall
also registered a 7-point, 7-rebound effort.

A 76-57 loss to powerful Appalachian State (10-4, 3-0) in Belk Arena Tuesday and an exciting 58-57 win at Tennessee-Chattanooga
Saturday evening brought their record to 8-6 (2-2 in the Southern). And with 11 regular-season games left, the Wildcats have
a chance at being the winningest women’s basketball team ever at Davidson. The 1985-86 and the 1974-75 teams each...posted 10
wins. The Wildcats clawed back from a 26-20 halftime deficit in Chattanooga, Saturday, to claim their second conference win and
even their conference record. Ferrucci led all scorers with 15 points, while Montrella tossed in 12 off the bench, and
Jamie Brown added 10. Carolyn Kirsch chipped in nine points and grabbed nine rebounds, six of them offensive. Their accomplishments
so far this season are even more impressive when injuries are considered. The Brown twins, Jamie and Kerry, have each
endured stress fractures, while Ferrucci, who shoots 70 percent from the floor and averages close to 13 points a game,
missed six games due to her knee injury. And Filar hopes the Wildcats, once healthy, can finish as a top-four
team in the conference and host a first-round postseason tournament game. “By February (when everyone is healthy), if there’s a
team on the rise, it’s going to be us,” he said. “All the weapons will be back in February.”

Cold water paddling is a must for winter

Outdoors enthusiasts should not miss this chilling opportunity

By JOHN ROE
Staff Writer

Although the winter season is in full swing, there are still many outdoor activities to be enjoyed. There are the
obvious winter pastimes, such as cross-country and downhill skiing, ice fishing, and hunting. Some even enjoy braving the cold weather
with a backpack on the trail, for the mountains take on a spectacular appearance after a winter storm. Although it
is a rather common occurrence to see someone walking into the woods with a rifle or heading to the slopes
with a set of skis this time of year, one might be puzzled upon seeing a backpacker embarking on a
trail with snow, ice, and other winter surprises in the forecast. But what if you were to run across a
group of kayakers in the winter season? At first, you would probably believe it was already summer by some mistake,
but soon you would notice that it was still snowing. Next, you would want to ask questions such as: “Kayaking
is a warm weather activity, right?” or “Isn’t the water freezing?” or “Are you crazy?” These are all common questions
asked when one happens upon a gang of paddlers in the dead of winter, but believe it or not, some
diehards believe kayaking is just as legitimate a winter sport as skiing.

Although the weather is not forgiving, there are many advantages to paddling at this time of year. First, if all
you can remember about your summer paddling trip is dodging rafts and getting bumped out of eddies by other boaters,
try paddling this winter. Although you might have to duck to avoid icicles or pass up the eddy that is
now solid ice, you will not need to compete with the multitudes of people and boats. Also, because winter can
bring high waters to mountainous areas, many outstanding creeks can be run at optimum water levels. Because most of the
water in runnable creeks and rivers comes from freezing rain and snowmelt, don’t expect the water temperature to be forgiving
or refreshing during a swim. But, you can justify all of that fancy gear you bought like those high-tech offshore
Alpine Mitts.

In order to paddle in inclement weather, you must be very confident and comfortable on the water. Any wrong move
or missed roll can result in a bad situation that can only get worse. With the cold temperatures, hypothermia and
frostbite are very real possibilities, so proper cold weather paddling gear, plenty of food and water, and very careful, knowledgeable
paddlers are essential for any winter paddling excursion. I enjoyed my first winter on the Obed-Emory watershed. I don’t know
if it was the magnificent canyon walls covered with ice, the traces of being the only ones on the water,
but there was something spectacular about that canyon in the winter. Maybe this feeling was brought on by the anticipation
of venturing into the canyon in dangerous weather, or maybe it was just a good cure for a bad case
of cabin fever. Try paddling a creek or river this winter, and experience the cold season in an unconventional manner.
You might just realize that winter paddling is not crazy, but a great way to experience the outdoors this time
of year.
