RLO and seniors debate purpose of inspections

Angered apartment owners claim that routine inspections “treat them like children”

By STEPHEN CEFALU
Staff Writer

Fall inspections of the Martin Court senior apartments, which were recently conducted by Davidson College’s Residence Life Office, left several disgruntled apartment residents in their wake.

Building Services staff members use a comprehensive 23-point checklist in their inspections, a completed copy of which is presented to the apartment occupants after the inspection’s completion. Facilities and Housing Coordinator Debbie Young says of the inspection process, “The building inspectors are, if anything, too lenient in their evaluations.” According to Young, the number of persons with inspection policy grievances constitutes a very tiny minority, since only two of the 82 senior apartments failed to meet inspection standards this fall.

Some apartment residents have seen fit to add a series of amendments to what they consider an otherwise too restrictive lease contract.

However, Young says that while resident input is always encouraged, no serious consideration is given to terms appended to the lease agreement of residents’ own volition.

Senior Ben DeLisa says he was in a state of utter disbelief after his apartment was assessed a $40 fine for dirty dishes in the kitchen sink.

Says DeLisa, “It’s absolutely ludicrous. Who are they to come in here and tell us to wash our dishes?...We’re college seniors, and they’re treating us like children.”

Standard college policy printed in the Davidson College red student handbook, and reiterated in the Martin Court lease agreement, states the following: “All Martin Court apartment suites will be inspected twice annually. Apartment residents are responsible for clean common areas and clean appliances.

“Residents with areas that do not pass inspection will be given 48 hours in which to rectify the situation. Failure to meet subsequent inspections will result in $40 fines ($10 per apartment occupant).”

Recycling and in Charlotte.

Ever wondered where your recyclables go? Recycling guru Meredith Judy recently visited the recycling plant with Senior Seth Clippard, Economics Professor David Martin, and Building Services Manager Tony Owens. While there, she snuck some shots of Davidson’s recycling program at work.

SARAH BURNS

Multipurpose Room Thursday about Winslow Homer and the influence of the American big business spirit in his art.

Come to Pub Night

Students and Faculty

Every Friday night,
4:30 — 7:30
movie at 8:00

Beer served to those 21 and older.
Bring two IDs please.