OPINIONS _ MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1996

Ken May

It’s good to be back

You should have seen me at the end of last spring. After a sophomore year chock full of pre-med, labs,
late nights, and gallons of Mello Yello, I was a goner. I was overworked, overstressed, my brain was fried over-easy,
and most importantly, I was overjoyed to leave Davidson. So thorough was my discontentment, that I was all ready to
transfer to another school. Not knowing whether Davidson or myself was to blame didn’t really matter. Everything was wrong and
something had to change... big time! Thus, I decided to study abroad, perhaps as much to “bail out” of Davidson
as for the experience itself.

Before I left, I had a long chat with my advisor, Dr. Williamson, about my health, happiness, and future at
Davidson. He said something to me of profound insight, which at the time I completely discounted. “Ken, you may not
feel good about this place now, but I'll bet some time away will make you really grow to appreciate what
Davidson is all about.” Sure, and the moon is made of green cheese too. But I'll be darned, here it
is a year later, and I’m back. And Big Doc Williamson was right. This school really has taken on a
new light upon returning.

Don’t get me wrong. Leaving Davidson for a while was the best thing I ever did. Like everybody else who
goes abroad, I met, saw, and experienced so many new people, places, and ideas that I’m forever changed. Going to
the University of Edinburgh gave me the opportunity to do many things I never could have imagined doing here: to
be a nameless face in a crowd, to attend lectures of several hundred students, to get lost on the way
to class, to cook for myself or starve, to do my own laundry, to be alone. That was all so
cool and frequently I find my thoughts drifting back to the freedom of it all.

It’s interesting though. The more I experienced the differences of my new school, the more I began to appreciate the
experience that Davidson offers. As my semester in Scotland came to a close, my eager anticipation for returning to my
old school grew. All those things I had to get away from, I couldn’t wait to get back to. Friendly
familiar faces on the way to class, new intellectual challenges, old friends, and that warm homey feeling of our quaint
campus. You all know what I mean.

It’s funny the way things work out, and in ways you’d never expect. Davidson is a special college, and often
a hard one to deal with. I guess you just need to step away every once in a while to
reacquaint yourself with its unique charm.

---

Name: Sara Lyn Goodman
Year: Senior
Major: French
Hometown: Oklahoma City, OK
Abroad experience: Junior year in France.

Ken May thinks that going abroad leads to a greater appreciation of Davidson. After a year in France did you
find you appreciate Davidson more?

I don’t know if I appreciate it any more but it was good to go.

Now that President Kuykendall has announced his resignation, what do you think Davidson should look for in a new president?

An open-minded person willing to lead us into a new century.

In your opinion, should he or she be Presbyterian?

I could care less as long as they do a good job.

Tell me, what’s wrong with The Davidsonian?

I don’t know. I never read it — except for the Opinions page. That's the only page I read.

Have you made any big plans for Valentine’s Day?

I have a date with my boyfriend.

How do you feel about graduation? Are you scared or excited?

I’m excited. I’m just ready to get out of here. I’m sort of in a nonacademic frame of mind which
isn’t good when you have to write a thesis.

Any additional comments?

Keith Davis, stay away from my window!

---

The Davidsonian needs a cartoonist. Until some creative soul volunteers to provide us with weekly, witty humor, we shall be
forced to print hideous attempts at artistic editorialism such as: Hey isn't it cool when those crazy frat pledges make
fools of themselves in the library? College is so cool! Help us.yourself with what it’s all about and why you're
here. I’m glad I had the chance to get away, but boy it’s good to be back!!

Kay Walraven

Starving Sweethearts

I spent $37.95 on cards at the Hallmark store Friday. No denying, I’m a card freak. I can’t leave a
card store empty-handed. But only at Valentine’s do my expenditures on cards exceed my grocery bill. Now you probably think
I like Valentine’s Day. Why else would I drain pocketbook and pantry to celebrate the occasion? The truth is, I
hate that disgusting holiday with all its hearts and hoopla. I’ve hated it for as long as I can remember
— all the way back to elementary school. I hate it, hate it, hate it!

So why, if I hate the day so much, do I let it bleed all the other days? As I
wrote out the personal notes in my valentines this weekend, I noticed something. Every single message was negative. All I
did was bellyache to my friends about how much I dreaded V-Day. I spent $37.95 on Valentine greetings to tell
people how much I loathe and despise Valentine’s Day — for the exact same reason I’m writing this article. I
want sympathy. I want all those lousy lovebirds to know that while they’re smooching and smacking, some of us will
be loning it. Some of us will be lamenting the day St. Valentine was born.

But we won’t really be alone. Oh no. We have each other. That’s what all that cardio-capital goes for. To
let others know I’m thinking about them. And that’s where the love is. My heart may not be into Valentine’s
Day, but at least it’s in the right place.

As always, I’ll anxiously await that smitten sweetheart to come knocking at my door, and as always, be forced to
settle down with my usual Valentine companion: Russell Stover. Now there’s a reliable fellow for you. He’s always been there
for me. I’ll drive over to Wal-Mart, pick out a box of assorted candies, come home, plop down on the
floor, turn the television to the Valentine’s Day Special Movie Presentation — some goo-goo flick that’ll get me good and
depressed — and shove as many of those babies down my throat as possible. I may not get my Romeo,
but I sure will feel a lot better. Who needs a sweetheart when there’s chocolate? Maybe I’ll even send that
leftover chocolate Santa down the hatch. Mom and Dad will send me a stash, too. Freshman year, they sent a
whole tin of Godivas. Those truffles didn’t live to see February 15. After a few more Valentine’s Days, I figure
I’ll look like a gigantic bon bon myself. But who cares? It’s not like I have a Valentine to impress.
Of course, before long, I’ll have spent so much money on Valentine cards, I won’t be able to afford Russell
Stover anymore. Guess I’ll have to settle for Ramen Noodles and soda crackers. What kind of indulgence is that?

Sweetheart dances waltz right by me. Cute couples coo and cuddle. Rack after rack of lovey-dovey, heartsy-fartsy merchandise serves as
a painful reminder of my absent ardor. Sure I get cards and candy from family and friends, and that makes
a day I’d just as soon sleep through worth setting the alarm clock. But Valentine’s Day — that means romance:
flowers and candy from that special someone, cozy kisses and corny cards, a little lingerie to liven up the love.
(The closest I’ll ever get to that are those bright red panties with the frilly butt my grandmother gave me
for Valentine’s when I was six.) I want some sap. Some cheese. I want a Valentine. But this year will
be yet another verse in the lonely love song.
