bon UB] ORTA LIBERTAS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1996

NUMBER 16:

Buford, Freeman to lead SGA in 1996

By Adam Hickey
Staff Writer

Warren Buford could taste victory a little early last Thursday night, when he was informed that he was unopposed for
the Presidency of the SGA. But for the Vice Presidential candidates Will Cowan, Lucian Dervan, Clair Freeman, Naresh Nagella, and
Tim Saintsing, the race would be harder fought. The Vice Presidential election was close enough to force a run-off between
the top two vote-getters Freeman and Dervan; Freeman emerged as the winner on Tuesday afternoon.

“I was surprised at first, and of course I was a little relieved,” says Buford of the moment he was
told he was unopposed. “I feel encouraged ... it means there is support out there, and I’m excited about that
support.”

“I’m big on service,” he says when asked what his platform would have been. “[If I had to have run,]
I would have let people know that I’m a candidate ... who wants the SGA to be a service organization.”

Despite his four-year association with the SGA, Buford says he has only thought about becoming president for the last six
months, and he decided he really wanted the job only recently — within the last three weeks. Asked what his
immediate plans for the Senate were, Buford says he plans to complete “unfinished business” and gauge Senatorial opinion on specific
issues. Among his long-term goals for the Senate, Buford would like to bring a rides program and a communication center
to Davidson. Depending on student support for the idea, Buford hopes to obtain administrative support that would increase the SGA’s
budget, allowing it to meet larger student needs more quickly than they would be addressed through current channels.

Roughly 700 ballots were cast in the general election, held Mon-

See SGA on page 5

IN THE BLEAK MIDWINTER

Icicles cling to the trees and create a canopy of winter wonder. Josh Glazer

Clair and Warren: our new student leaders brave the cold weather. Josh Glazer

WALT hits the air

Station will play “what students want to hear”

By Kirsten Recknagel
Assistant News Editor

They’re on a mission. Since the 1970s, Davidson students have been plagued by obstacles that either made the creation of
such a station an impossible dream, or forced it to shut down soon after it seemed a reality. Last Thursday
however, WALT, Davidson College’s new AM radio station, took to the airwaves. The students of Davidson College have finally achieved
their goal.

Students have been able to receive WALT’s broadcasts since late last semester as the station began legal and equipment testing.
“Now we’re no longer testing,” says WALT Programming Director Will Foy, “we’re on.” Broadcasting nearly 130 hours a week, WALT
is on the air at 1610 AM from 6 a.m. to 2 a.m. Monday through Saturday and from 6 a.m.
to 12 a.m. on Sundays. Foy estimates that there are currently between 60 and 70 students involved with the station
in some capacity. Hoof says that about 40 of these students are DJs.

“Our two goals are to play music not found on Charlotte stations and to play music students want to hear,
and the two are not necessarily exclusive,” says Station Manager Churchill Hoof. Currently, WALT has a limited number of...Songs on
rotation; See WALT on page 4

Snow blankets campus for an icy weekend

By NARESH NAGELLA
Assistant News Editor

Despite already hitting the East Coast with “The Blizzard” earlier this year, Mother Nature struck again with what meteorologists are
calling “The Cold Blast.” A fierce winter storm hit Friday night as an overnight coating of ice and freezing rain
covered the campus and the rest of the Piedmont area. The treacherous storm has caused many deaths nationwide, as record
lows were broken all around the country. Davidson luckily avoided fatal damage, but could not escape an ice storm’s other
inconveniences. Electricity was lost in the part of the town stretching beyond Concord and Grey streets. Campus Police say, “The
storm rivals Hugo in terms of power outages.” Power is not expected back in those areas until the middle of
the week.

The Baker Sports Complex was the only campus building to lose electricity due to large, icy tree branches falling on
the power lines leading to the building. The Physical Plant is busy working on the problem and clearing the fallen
branches, so Baker should be operating as normal during the week. Campus Safety sent out a message warning students of
falling trees and slippery roads. Otherwise, they report only minor fender-benders. Sophomore Sergei Tikhonekov started spinning wildly in his 1977
Mazda while driving to the library. “I barely avoided a major crash. I felt lucky to come out of that
alive,” said a shaken, but happy Tikhonekov. He also stated he had never seen conditions so bad in his native
Russia.

Sophomores Anthony Mackaronis and Andrew Coates returned from their lunch Friday to be greeted by flooding from half of their
ceiling. They quickly put up plastic to isolate the leaks and then enlisted the help of their hallmates to relocate
everything from their room to the 3rd Belk lounge. The flooding occurred because a frozen gutter backed up remaining water
over their 3rd Belk room. RLO has given the students permission to stay in the lounge through the week. Coates
is taking everything in stride. He states, “It’s been nice to have a large room with sofas and heat. But,
it is annoying to have freshmen come in and ask why they can’t watch TV.”

Even our outgoing SGA President had a branch fall and hit his head while walking back from dinner at Les
Trois Faisans Friday. A surprised Gullan admitted, “Yes, I did fall down. I had a headache, but took a couple
of Bufferin and the pain was over in about 2 hours.”

Overall, Davidson should be able to ride out the storm without too much reshuffling. A prepared RLO had developed emergency
plans that included housing seniors in the Commons to accommodate the worst-case scenarios. Luckily, they will probably not have to
use it. So keep the hot chocolate running, the heater on, and stay inside as much as possible. The ice
is expected to melt before next weekend. In the meantime, watch out for those falling branches.

Grades by Celebrating Latex-friendly Flash finish!
AIDS speakers confront the phone consciousness with frank humor.
Track teams break school records.
Davidson catches up to the real world.
Sara Beasley addresses the need for the Women’s Film Festival.

NEWS 5 | OPINIONS 9 | ARTS & LIVING 10 | SPORTS 15
