THE DAVIDSONIAN 16 SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1996

QUINN-tessential
Davidson dominates Southern

By Michael Kruse
Assistant Sports Editor

Chris Alpert secured a starting job and a position on the All-Southern Conference freshman squad three years ago. Classmate Brandon Williams garnered all-conference honors as a sophomore. Fellow senior Quinn Harwood’s statistical impact as a Davidson Wildcat was not so instantaneous, averaging 1.1 points in just 14 games as a rookie, and 7.9 points and 4.8 rebounds in his second collegiate campaign. But the 6-9, 240-pound point forward vaulted to the forefront last winter, accounting for 13.3 points and 7.1 boards an outing. And he has continued to play a vital role in this year’s magical season, averaging 14.7 points (second on the team behind scoring machine Williams) and 5.8 rebounds. He also leads the team in field goal percentage (56% overall, 63% in league play).

“We certainly wouldn’t be where we are right now if it wasn’t for Quinn,” said Alpert, “He’s having a sensational senior year. You can’t say much about his hard work and his dedication because you just look at his statistics and they’re all there.”

Against Michigan on Dec. 30, Harwood matched up against some of the nation’s premier post players and recorded perhaps the game of his life, notching a then career-high 22 points and 11 rebounds.

“It (the Michigan game) was fun, but disappointing because I thought we could’ve won,” said Harwood, “I thought, deep down, we were the better team. Something tells me that I wouldn’t mind facing them again.”

Two weeks later, Harwood shattered that personal best, amassing 31 points against Furman. He has done this by being the most versatile player on the Southern Conference’s most versatile team.

“You look at anybody in college basketball, and there are not going to be too many guys who are 6-9, 240, who can dribble, shoot, pass, rebound, and play defense,” Williams said, “When you can get a player who can play three positions, four positions, that’s extraordinary.”

Added freshman big man Chadd Holmes, “Of all the guys on the team, the things he does impress me the most. Every game, he does something that impresses me more and more.”

But Harwood’s versatility is not limited to the hardcourt. In an era when the academic status and graduation rate among college athletes has dipped appallingly low and the title “student-athlete” has become somewhat of an oxymoron, Harwood defines the term. Offered scholarships from Virginia Tech and Richmond, both schools with significant hoops recognition, Harwood instead chose Davidson because of the balance between academics and big-time basketball. A Reston, Va. native, Harwood earned honor roll status three years at South Lake High. Now a Biology major, the GTE/CoSida Academic All-American candidate currently boasts a 3.6 grade point average. Harwood will try to play professionally somewhere after graduation, but if his future basketball plans falter, he will enroll in medical school and work to become a doctor — quite an assuring safeguard for Mr. Versatile.

Ferrucci fights injuries, leads Wildcats

By Daniel Motz
Staff Writer

Freshman year, center Kristen Ferrucci suffered a broken leg. Junior year a broken nose cut her season short. And this year, a serious, partially dislocated kneecap suffered in December was supposed to end her season and career at Davidson. It didn’t. Ferrucci, a 6-1 senior from Grove City, Pa. has contributed a lot to the Davidson Women’s basketball program, despite her injuries. She has improved her statistics each season, as she now leads the Wildcats with close to 13 points per game. Her 64.4 field goal percentage was third in NCAA last season, and she has topped that this year, shooting 70 percent from the floor.

“You won’t find a better center in the conference that can run the court like Kristen. She gets down for the break faster than a lot of guards in the league do,” Coach John Filar said. Her skills have won the respect of her teammates. “She reallyknows how to play her position. Her agile moves to the basket are excellent,” Jessica Montrella said. Aside from her skills on the court, she has earned just as much respect by the work she does off the court. “She has been a leader on this team for four years. She showed a lot of people what kind of person she is with the way she worked herself back to playing condition after the knee injury,” Filar said. “She is the glue of this team. She always knows what to say and when to say it,” Carolyn Kirsch said. After a combined 18-57 record her first three seasons, Ferrucci is excited about the team’s success this year. “This year has been a great accomplishment. For the first time since I have come to Davidson, the team really thinks it can win. It is a great feeling.” Ferrucci says the Wildcats have the potential to be in the Southern Conference tournament championship game, and once that is achieved, she says anything can happen. Ferrucci gets fouled.

But for now, Quinn and the 22-3 Wildcats are focused on the Southern Conference tournament title and an NCAA bid. “My favorite memory’s gonna be this year when we put up a banner and go to the NCAA tournament,” said Harwood. Harwood, Williams, and Alpert, along with veteran companions Jeff Anderson and Mark McGuire, represent the most successful basketball class at Davidson in twenty-two years. They have been the keys to Davidson’s resurgence as a basketball power. “They’ve set the tone for the future of Davidson basketball,” said Wildcat mentor Bob McKillop, “And I think they’re going to be catalysts for what happens beyond this year because I think there’s going to be a carry over from this year to the next and the next to the next. They have built that foundation.”

“They’re inseparable. Those five guys are something special to me. Those are the first five guys that, as a group, came in here and wanted to make Davidson something special. They had a twinkle in their eye that told me that they could.” Josh Glazer

SCOREBOX

Men’s Track
2/19 Davidson 95 @ VMI 76
2/23-24 Conf. Tourney @ Lexington Va. 9th

Men’s Tennis
2/25 JMU 3, Davidson 2
Tonight @ Furman 7:30 p.m.
Mar. 2 @ Citadel 1:00

Men’s Basketball
2/24 Davidson 83 @ USC Marshall 77 (0 pts.)
Thursday-Sunday Conf. Tourney @ Greensboro

Men’s Tennis
Mar. 13 vs. Swarthmore 2:00
Mar. 15 vs. VMI 2:00
Mar. 17 vs. U. of Richmond

Swimming
2/22-24 National Independent Championships @ Little Rock, AR

Women’s Track
2/23-24 Conf. Tourney @ Lexington Va. 8th
Venessa Sims 3rd in high jump

Women’s Basketball
2/20 @ UNCG 5 Davidson 4
2/24 App. St. 16 @ Davidson 7 (7 pts.)
2/25 App. St. 6 @ Davidson 0
2/21 @ Davidson 32 Longwood 15
2/19 @ Davidson 79 UTC 74
2/22 Davidson 75 @ ETSU 66
2/24 Marshall 85 @ Davidson 69

Women’s Tennis
2/23 Georgia Tech 6 @ Davidson 1
2/24 Davidson 34 @ WCU 3

Baseball
Mar. 11 vs. Richmond 3:00
Mar. 16 @ UNCC
Mar. 14 vs. Wofford 3:00
Mar. 16 @ Charleston Southern 11:00 a.m.
Tuesday vs. Wake Forest 3:00
Wednesday vs. Duke 3:00
Saturday @ the Citadel (2) 12:00

Rugby
@ Greensboro

Men’s and Women’s Track
2/24 Combined scores from Points Regatta @ Charleston
Davidson 41
Charleston 50
UNCW 83
NC State 103
Vanderbilt 112
Duke 114
SCAD 139
UT 139