THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1996

Movie Feature

Round ‘Em Up Pardner
Westerns take a ride on the wilder side
By Ep AcLe
Movie Critic

“Awright, Pardner, let’s go ‘round up that ol’ cowpoke and stick him in the hoosegow.” This is the stereotypical idea of the Western that many still have without the taint of modern society (many of the baddies in these films were representative of the tainted society — greedy, self-centered monsters trying to shape the land to their vision). Some say that the Western died out for a decade or two (from the late ‘70s to the early ‘90s). But they fail to take into account movies such as Star Wars which is basically a Western set in space. All you need to do is set the cantina scene from the first Star Wars in a proper Western context — it’s straight out of any predictable bar confrontation. Films changed the setting from the “Wild West” to “the Final Frontier” (to quote another popular space series). The West no longer exists. If you really wanted adventure and virgin land you’d have to leave the earth’s surface.

Westerns have made a comeback in recent years, and there are several theories why this might be the case. With the explosion of the Challenger, America’s faith in the space program was severely shaken. NASA’s subsequent slide has made some believe exploration of the “New Frontier” of the magnitude shown in the movies is not possible today. When I was younger I wouldn’t watch Westerns: I thought they were all the same, and besides, I liked Starsky and Hutch better (I even named that car). It wasn’t until fairly recently that I began to enjoy Westerns. They do seem to operate on a fairly simplistic level: one man (or woman, as some of the newer revisionist Westerns have shown) sticks up for his ideals in the face of overwhelming adversity. Our hero always seems to be the sheriff or the new kid in town. And, guaranteed, there will be a climactic gunfight at the end.

If you take a closer look at them, you begin to realize that they are films that appeal to the audience for some old and new reasons alike. The first is the idea of the lone hero, one who can save us all from destruction. The idea of the loner hero has been a part of Western Civilization for centuries (look at Beowulf). Westerns also fulfill the audience’s yearning for a time and place where part of America was still a new land, a place where it was possible to restart your life. Another theory holds that the movie-going audience has grown more complex. Simple good vs. evil parables aren’t done anymore. We like our heroes dirty (witness Unforgiven). We have Westerns now with the brat pack (Young Guns), women (Bad Girls, The Quick and the Dead) and African Americans (Posse) as the heroes of what used to be only a white male’s territory.

A comparison of different Westerns reveals quite a bit. If you come to Westerns expecting authentic period detail, you'll be sorely disappointed. The West was never anything even remotely like it was portrayed in films. If you go to them to learn more about our nation and the themes that underlie the discourse of the past 50 years, however, you might just learn something.

Cajun Cooking

Mardi Gras Martyr
Rob suffers for ultimate cajun rice
By Ros Kosicki & JAY SHULTZ
Chefs-in-Residence

Rob was sent on assignment this weekend to New Orleans, LA in search of the ultimate cajun dish. He called me last night claiming to have found it. However, the waitress at the restaurant was very reluctant to give away this recipe and told him he had to earn it. He didn’t tell me exactly what it is he had to do to get it, but keep in mind, it is Mardi Gras... When he gets back next week be sure to ask him.

For this recipe you will need the following:
1 lb. smoked sausage cut into 1/2 inch slices
1 cup cubed, cooked ham
1 cup chopped onion
3/4 cup chopped green pepper
1 clove garlic, finely chopped
3 tbsp. vegetable oil
3 cups water
1 can whole tomatoes (28 oz.), undrained and broken up
2 cups uncooked long grain rice
4 tsp. beef broth
2 tsp. paprika
1/4 tsp. each of basil and thyme leaves
1/8 tsp. pepper
1 lb. shrimp, peeled and deveined
hot pepper sauce

In a large kettle or Dutch oven, cook sausage, ham, onion, green pepper and garlic in oil until sausage browns. Stir in remaining ingredients except shrimp and hot pepper sauce; bring to a boil. Reduce heat, cover and simmer for 20 minutes. Stir in shrimp and cook uncovered five to eight minutes longer. Serve with hot pepper sauce.

This is a pretty hefty recipe which makes eight servings. Leftovers should be refrigerated. I’m sure everyone who has a taste for cajun recipes will thoroughly enjoy this dish. And don’t forget to ask Rob what he had to do to get it!Forget to thank Rob who made a personal sacrifice to bring us this hearty recipe from the Deep South. There will never be an - Ss so Searoop, BBQ & Gatenine Featuring GREAT Seafood, outstanding Ribeye Steaks, our famous Barbecue, and award-winning Banana Pudding PLUS Much More!

LUNCH HOURS: Friday, 11:30 - 2:00 P.M.
DINNER: Tues. - Sat., 5:00 P.M. - 9:00 P.M.
18150 Statesville Rd., CORNELIUS

HOROSCOPE By Dorcas AND MADGE Consulting Astrologists

Pisces (February 19-March 20) — Watch for dehydration in these winter months. Replace your electrolytes with some refreshing Sunny Delight™. Entering a dance contest could raise your spirits. Lucky Day: Wednesday. Place: Fred Astaire Dance Studio.

Aries (March 21-April 19) — Take a course from the International Correspondence School (I.C.S.) - we recommend “High School Diploma” or “Gun Repair.” You will be very popular with the R.L.O. (in a good way). Lucky Day: Friday. Day to stay in bed: Thursday.

Taurus (April 20-May 20) — Beware of the Y! It is time to make a scene. This week you get a phone call from a former love. Maybe it's time to rekindle the old flame. Lucky Numbers: 13 7 83 14 24 8. Lucky Place: Slot Machine. Spring Break hot spot: Vegas.

Gemini (May 21-June 20) — Take the curative waters at the Lake Campus. They have great medicinal value. Do not take internally. Lucky Day: Saturday. Lucky Shirt: yellow oxford.

Cancer (June 21-July 22) — Step up to the mic, Crabby! Kill him/her softly with your song. You are lucky in love this week. Go for it, moon child. Lucky day: Thursday. Lucky Numbers: 5 15 73 6 22 3568.

Leo (July 23-August 22) — Always put the toilet seat down! Sniffing glue brings only tragedy. Explore old yearbooks. Lucky day: Monday.

Virgo (August 23-September 22) — Read the newspapers carefully this week. Secret truths will emerge in time. This is the week for you to save the princess - you will see a marked increase in your video game playing skills. Lucky Day: Tuesday.

Libra (September 23-October 22) — Show your stuff in class this week. Your brain is working surprisingly well. Do not go to the office every day and there will be more in it when you do go. Lucky Day: Wednesday.

Scorpio (October 23-November 21) — Avoid anything flammable this week. Due to the alignment of Pluto and Saturn, you may experience restlessness on Wednesday. Rock on. Lucky Numbers: 65 98 127 35 9.

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21) — What is going on, wild man/woman? You must calm your social life down. Do not wear anything the color of the carpet in the library. Lucky day: Monday.

Capricorn (December 22-January 19) — Experiment with a new hairstyle this week - how about the Friends do? (Even the stars can joke around every now and then.) Find a tub and take a bath. Too many showers can bring you harm. Lucky day: Today.

Aquarius (January 20-February 18) — You need to make less noise! Watch out for crickets, they are attracted by your outbursts. Water will play an important role in your life this week. Lucky Day: Tuesday. Lucky Numbers: 4 18 34 2 67.

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1. Burden
5. Friendly conversations
10. Snatch
14. Accomplished
15. Ingredient in plastics
16. Breathing sound
17. Of the ear
18. Upper crust
19. French river
20. Tire type
22. Beirut's land
24. Sup
25. Old World finch
26. Regard with suspicion
30. Russian plain
32. Singles
35. Wander
38. Convert into leather
39. Continued stories
41. Age
42. Beginning
44. Against
45. Let it stand
46. Staggered
48. Prank
50. Issued a challenge
53. Light spear
56. Rubber-soled shoe
60. Finished
61. Former senator Kefauver
63. Chinese river
64. Boat structure
65. Set of rooms
69. Capitol feature

DOWN
1. Scent
2. Short letter
3. Distinct entity
4. Hidden things
5. Human being
6. Kept
7. “— was going...”
8. Name
9. Villainous
10. Weather word
11. In addition
12. Auxiliary verb
13. Hearing organ
21. Posts on a ship's deck
23. Colored, in a way
25. Engine part
26. Catch sight of
27. Small rugs
31. Peeled
32. Make happy
36. Small rugs
39. Filch
40. One sensed
43. Along in years
45. Used anatomizer
47. Most arid
49. Exist
51. Follow after
53. Funny story
55. Gore, e.g.
56. Pairs
57. Knockout
58. Fundamental: abbr.
62. Metal