SPORTS 16 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1996

Kruse’s Cubby

I hate the Panthers.

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

I had this Cubby all planned out. The 49ers were going to ravage the Panthers, and rape, pillage, and plunder brand spanking new Ericsson Stadium. And I was going to sound off. I was going to tell the naive and annoying Panthers fans to shut up and sit down because their team was nothing but a bunch of visionary expansion wannabees. I was going to tell them not to even compare their team to the 49ers, perennial NFC West kings. I was going to tell the Observer to shove its excessively positive Panthers coverage up its you know what. Because you know, there’s more to the sports world than the Panthers.

And I was going to rant and rave about how the Panthers-49ers so-called blockbuster was far from the Game of the Century. Sure, to the Panthers, yes, it may indeed have been the Game of the Century. But to the 49ers, it was just another blip on the screen of conference domination.

But because of Carolina’s stunning 23-7 victory, I am forced to retreat. I must admit. The Panthers were rather impressive. Beating Them of the Handful of Super Bowl Rings is no small feat. But I still hate the Panthers. And even with the win over the 49ers, 3-0 does not mean the Panthers are on a crash course with Super Bowl destiny. Or even headed to the playoffs. Even if the Panthers Times - excuse me, the Observer - says so.

Dammit, you people, get cynical. You see, I am from Boston, the cynicism capital of the world. Home of the Red Sox, who haven’t won a World Series since 1918, who were one out away in 1986 for batter after batter, who were one strike away... And I’m not bitter. Just cynical. The Panthers aren’t going to win the Super Bowl in their second season. Get that through your heads.

In Boston, if the Patriots start 3-0 (and we usually don’t have to worry about that), the media doesn’t jump on the bandwagon like it has here in the Queen City. No sir. It wonders how this freak of nature ever happened and then reasons about when and how the Pats will collapse. When Bledsoe will fold. When Parcells will gain that fatal pound.

That’s the way it is supposed to be. When the Sox start 6-19 like...

See Cubby on page 19

Men’s soccer struggles as it prepares for big dogs

Wildcats fall to App. St., slip by VMI

By DANIEL MOTZ
Copy Editor

What was supposed to be an easy week for the men’s soccer team nearly turned disastrous, as the Wildcats fell to App. St., 1-0, on Wednesday and escaped with a 2-1 victory over VMI on Saturday.

Coming off a 2-0 loss at UNLV two weekends ago where the Wildcats outshot the Runnin’ Rebels, 18-9, Davidson hoped to use the Southern Conference foes as a stepping stone to the difficult portion of its schedule. But App. St. had other ideas. Taking advantage of their Astroturf surface, the Mountaineers played a more up-tempo game than the Wildcats had been used to. Keeping the ball on the Davidson half of the field for the majority of the game, App. St. was finally able to convert in the 86th minute for the game-winning goal.

“App. St. played very, very well,” coach Charlie Slagle said. “They played well defensively and were able to convert offensively, and the one was all they needed.”

Slagle also noted the home-field prowess of App. St., citing the Mountaineer victory over Southern Conference power Furman a year ago. But he also mentioned Davidson’s lack of preparation.

“On the road, we have to learn to swallow our pride and play to...the conditions,” Slagle explained. “The Astroturf was obviously an advantage for them. But as a team, we have to go out and adjust. We just didn’t do that.”

Perhaps searching for a spark, Slagle shook up the starting lineup Saturday, benching senior forwards Coley Dominiak and Robert Clarke in favor of Bryce Jewett and Wes Roache. Slagle also gave sophomore midfielder Drew Lindsey the starting nod.

“I have been playing like (dog doo),” Clarke reasoned. “I deserved to be benched.”

Davidson came out firing but was unable to convert. And fifteen minutes into the game, it was VMI taking a 1-0 advantage on a goal by Phillip Harper. The Wildcats continued to have a plethora of opportunities, and despite outshooting the Keydets, 9-5, VMI took the one-goal lead into the locker room.

With 31:07 left in the game, Phil Julien broke free and whipped a shot past Keydet goalkeeper Tom Butler to even the game. Davidson continued to dominate, but the game remained deadlocked until Robert Clarke punched in a deflected Dennis Buck shot with 28 seconds left, giving the Wildcats the 2-1 squeaker.

Davidson (6-3) was pleased with the comeback win but maintains their best soccer is yet to come.

“It showed good character to come back,” Clarke said. “But as a whole, I still don’t think we’re playing well.”

Slagle also credited an improved Keydet club. “VMI showed that they really have improved their talent over the past few years,” he said. “We’re still in a period of transition, but to our credit, we came back and fought. This team doesn’t give up.”

And let’s hope not: A home loss against VMI would have compounded an already dented ‘96 campaign. To prevent the whispers of being apathetic underachievers, the Wildcats must step up in the next couple of weeks, as they face three top 25 powers in UNC Greensboro, George Mason, and Duke, and perennial Division II force Florida Institute of Technology.

“This team is ready to play,” Slagle said. “We know it’s time to pick it up.”

Women harriers run to third
By JONATHAN HAYES
Staff Writer

The women’s cross country team faced Western Carolina and App. St. on Saturday on a challenging course in Cullowhee, N.C. Although Debra Williams, Elizabeth Fischer, and Jennie Clark bettered their times, the squad was disappointed with its overall performance and hopes that a return of some of its injured to next weekend’s roster will help. As Suzy Burr, yesterday’s top finisher, said, “I think it (next week’s race) will be a lot better because we will have a lot of the people back.”

The team is now familiar with the rough nature of the course in Cullowhee, site of this year’s conference meet, and hopes to use that increased knowledge in the November championships.

Like cameras? Take pictures for sports. Call Mike (x6231).

Volleyball breaks losing streak
By Drew WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The Wildcats ended a nine-game losing streak this week with decisive victories over Winthrop on Tuesday and N.C. A&T on Saturday. The Wildcats (4-9) had been plagued with a “lack of finishing,” but seemed to correct the problem.

“We came up on some tough situations this time and we pushed forward,” said head coach Lisa Radford after the Winthrop victory. “I’m pleased that we finally finished.”

Davidson swept Winthrop in three games, 15-9, 15-7, 16-14. L.A. Bumgarner again led the team in kills and digs, and Radford praised the blocking efforts of Jamil Sawyer and Janet Duncan, who combined for 8 blocks on the evening.

Davidson needed four games to dispatch A&T, recording a 15-13, 5-15, 15-13, 15-12 victory.