THE Davidsonian BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

Friday, April 12, 1996

Between bites of breakfast, Cornel West shares his views on evil in America, Marxism, and the politics of conversion.

In Race Matters you support large-scale public intervention to ensure access to basic social goods, describing yourself now as a
radical democrat. How do such programs relate to being a radical democrat, and is being a radical democrat the same
as being a democratic socialist?

Well, one has to be an experimentalist. Nobody knows exactly which program will work. We’ve never really tried a full
employment policy, for example. We'd have to try it and see if in fact it had an impact in overcoming
some social misery. Then we'd follow through. If not, we'd try something else. The problem with using the term ‘democratic
socialist’ is people think you have a certain blueprint which you impose upon society no matter what the costs are.
It is true that I’m still very much a democratic socialist, but what one means by that is simply ensuring
that people have access to basic social goods and that one has accountability.

How can democratic socialism be used to ameliorate racism?

If people have access to basic social goods, then that would automatically alleviate some of the tension. A lot of
the tension is people fighting for the funds and scarce resources that one finds in the working community and among
the very poor. I don’t think that any economic system can completely eliminate racism or sexism because racism and sexism
are not solely economic phenomena. They are also psycho-cultural, political, and in the hearts and souls of individuals. I think
it would be a contribution towards eliminating it, but it wouldn’t eliminate it.

How can we work to reduce or eliminate the strong connection that exists between economic and political power?

We need campaign reform in terms of granting free television time and free commercial time to show candidates other than
those who merely have the money to pay. We need much shorter primaries so candidates can be heard without having
enough money to sustain almost a year and a half or more of campaigning. But that’s the beginning. We’ve got
to somehow decouple economic power from political power enough... though we’ll never be able to do it completely. Then, in
a democracy, an organization would have the right to come together, to bring power and pressure to bear. We just
want to make the conditions fair under which that can happen.

Last night you discussed the problem of evil in America. How can we get a public debate on this topic
started with people so hypersensitive to being challenged over what is right, just, good, or evil?

We have to engage in a moral discourse in a self-critical way. The debate over abortion is primarily a debate
about evil; one side believes it’s evil while the other doesn’t. We have to be able to be candid about
our moral convictions even as we recognize that it’s not just a matter of imposing them on others.

So, you wouldn’t mind talking about vast economic inequality as an evil.

I say let’s argue about it... what you think evil is, what I think evil is, and how it relates
to the public good. If, for example, the issue of abortion were to lead toward a level of civil strife
that you’ve seen with race like we’ve seen in the 1960s or in the civil war... you'd have to come
up with some sort of compromise... or we begin to slide down the slippery slope to chaos. If we’d come
to some non-violent way of dealing with slavery, we wouldn’t have 600,000 fellow human beings killed in the war. Similarly,
in the 60s, if we had come up with some non-violent way, the way King talked about, we wouldn't have
had so many deaths, riots, and uprisings. But, that doesn’t mean that one still is not clear about one’s convictions.
When people believe white supremacy is a natural way of life, we're gonna hold on for dear life. We've got
to try to convince them that’s not the way. They’d rather fight, BOOM, and we end up with the democracy
in deep trouble. There’s nothing wrong with being quite honest and candid with one’s moral convictions, but when one is
in the public sphere you have to have a certain respect or tolerance for other peoples’ views, even when you
utterly oppose them.

You’ve stated that “the case of the church-based civil rights movement would seem to counter [Malcolm X’s] charge that black
Christianity serves as a sedative to put people to sleep rather than to ignite them to action.” Whether or not
Malcolm would agree with your claim, he might still assert that non-violent constraints on movements necessarily restrict the spheres within
which they may move and succeed. Is moral violence ever possible as a means of fighting injustice?

I think generally pretty good at it. The Black Panther Party was crushed. So again, the game of violence is
a very dangerous one.

You talk in Race Matters about nihilism. When Black youth see that men like Martin and Malcolm have been gunned
down, the BPP and other movements systematically crushed, the FBI’s COINTELPRO operations... and at the same time conservative forces crying
that Black America need only try harder to succeed. How can we reconcile these two things to give the youth
any hope?

America has to be honest about itself concerning what the genuine possibilities are for people. The same people who say
‘if you really work hard you can make it’... let’s say if a conservative upper-middle-class person were to wake up
Black the next morning and had acknowledged to themselves that they were Black, poor, and wouldn’t have the opportunities that
they themselves claim are out there. There is a certain hypocrisy going on in terms of the rhetoric on the
one hand and the fact that they don’t have to live that kind of life on the other. That is
partly what I meant by the empathy last night. If we cannot increase the scope of empathy that people really
can feel, then we only end up with a mean-spirited discourse. I think that’s very much what we’re seeing. It
is true in poor Black communities and among Jews.

DIRECTION: WEST

Courtesy of the Oak Row Report

Harvard Professor Cornel West, who spoke Thursday night in Love Auditorium, teaches Afro-American Studies and Philosophy of Religion. He is
the author of several books and a leading commentator on the complexities of American race relations. Currently, his interests lie
in the problems facing the urban African-American and in maintaining communication between their influence is waning though their numbers are
not necessarily declining. It’s ironic though because their influence is waning primarily because of mass media. Also, the younger generations
are more unaffiliated than they’ve ever been with these churches. You discussed speaking, violence is just a bad way of
going about dealing with conflict. You want to avoid it at all costs.All costs. There are certain conditions under which
violence is inescapable. Generally speaking, it is not a good way to achieve public good. Say, let’s argue about it.
What you think evil is, what I think evil is, and how it relates to the sermons as commercials for
Jesus and of preachers selling sermons every week... to what extent are false sales pitches going on compared with genuine
transfers of values? It depends on how... primarily because if your ends are non-violent ends for democratic cooperation, then the
means that you deploy will ultimately shape and influence your ends. It becomes highly problematic to use violent means for
non-violent ends. Anti-democratic means for democratic ends. It doesn’t work. That, for me, is a very convincing argument, that one
must consider the relationship of means to ends in political strategy and political tactics. That’s part of my critique of
Brother Malcolm, actually. What if he would respond that unjust oppressive forces have not and will not respond to reasonable
non-violent requests or demands? Is violence then inescapable but still not just? Exactly. At that point, there is simply no
other way. The ANC in South Africa or the Jewish resistance against Nazis in Poland, I would think, are certainly
understandable and in some ways justifiable. Realize that it is the last option available. Usually, when it is the last
option available, nine times out of ten it will be crushed anyway. Now you do take that one chance and
say, ‘ok, let’s see if we can actually organize and have enough power to change or overthrow the present order.’
But usually, you're crushed anyway. Again though, I can see Malcolm’s point. You push against a wall and there is
no other language available. You speak their language... You speak their language. But usually, if you’re speaking their language, they’ve
been speaking it for a while. They’re communities; it’s not just the COINTELPRO against the Panthers, but of course the
police. The constant surveillance, keeping track, and containing the population through incarceration in jails creates a lived experience of this
vigilant watch over them. It’s unbelievable. To what extent are we using what you call the ‘politics of conversion’ to
battle this nihilism? The politics of conversion are very real; I’m a product of it. Growing up, I could have
been doing a number of other things, but part of a family, church, and political movement turned me around. By
conversion, I mean a turning of the soul, a reorienting of one’s self to wrestle with one’s rage through moral
and political channels that are justifiable as opposed to unjustifiable self-destructive channels. Black folk out there were reorienting, turning their
souls away from self-hatred and self-destruction to self-respect and construction. You have to talk about the spiritual and existential dimension
as well as the political and economic one. The politics of conversion are a very loose and highly inadequate way
of trying to make that connection. Those practicing these politics won’t be politicians, but cultural organizations like schools, families, churches,
mosques, and temples... Absolutely right. They'll be civic associations. You're absolutely right. You’ve mentioned that religious organizations are in decay.
How good the preacher actually is. Is he or she actually digging deep into the worlds of the Gospel and
recognizing just how critical and non-conformist the Gospel is in relation to the world? If there is a prosperity gospel:
God blesses you with material possessions and so forth, then that is too narrow. There is nothing wrong with material
possessions or relative prosperity, but when it becomes idolatry, then I was arguing that you’ve ended up with a commercial.
I do think that we've always had that in the Christian church. But, I think it’s emphasized even more now
in a moment of deep conservatism. Rich market culture becomes so seductive and material possessions become in and of themselves
sacred. As Marx observed. Oh, yeah, very much so. There are some very deep insights in the Marxist tradition. You’ve
stated that “Marxism and Christianity share a similar moral impulse.” How did Christianity part with Marxist notions of community good,
or have the two actually parted? Christianity has been a movement primarily concerned with accenting equality before God and concern
about the limitations of human efforts. Marx himself grew up as a Christian... his early essays were on Jesus. He
was very Christo-centric and was convinced that the way of living in the world was with a compassion for the
poor. When one does look at the ministry of Jesus, one does see a fundamental focus on the least of
the Samaritans, those who had been marginalized. Marx puts at the center of his perspective those who are oppressed, the
workers. That’s the vantage point from which he looks at the world. In an interesting kind of way, like Christians
who are supposed to look at the world through the lens of the cross, those who suffer, Marx looks at
the world through the lens of those who suffer. The difference was that Marx himself was deeply influenced by the
Enlightenment and the developments of modern science and therefore he was convinced that Christian beliefs about God, faith, and grace
(following Feuerbach and others) got in the way of overcoming the suffering. Marx is convinced that the very church that
came out of the Jesus movement was a major obstacle to dealing with suffering. But, looking at the world through
the lens of the cross was still a useful one. You begin to see tremendous divergence... liberation theologians probably understand
this best than most, Gustavo Gutierrez and others who said, ‘look, there is this rich tradition within the Christian church
that still follows Marx, but we don’t have to accept his Enlightenment views about religion.’ We don’t have to accept
his secular critiques of religion, but we do listen and take it seriously... but with a Christian response. That’s part
of my tradition. I think Marx was wrong about religion; there’s no doubt about that. But he had his own
reasons. Most of the churches of his day were aligned with the status quo and supported the most ugly forms
of oppression. When you have 98 or 99 percent of the church going in one direction, you begin to think
there is nothing to this faith if this is the manifestation of it. If he had been around when the
Martin Luther Kings, the Fannie Lou Hamers, and the Myles Hortons were more numerous, he would have had a different
context in which to write. All Marx was writing about was that particular Lutheran church. It would be like if
for Black folk, the only Christian organization they knew were the Ku Klux Klan, how could they ever be Christian.
But, they’ve always known that that particular version does not exhaust the possibilities of Christianity. If the Klan were the
only version of Christianity, then they’d look for something else. That was Marx’s situation; he had to look for something
else.

BY BENJAMIN HILL
