THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 1996

Wrestlers earn exciting win over W&L
By John Roe
Staff Writer

While most students were resting over the Christmas holidays, the Davidson wrestling team was busy on the mats, preparing for
many tough matches with three-a-day practices.

WRESTLING

“We outwrestled everyone, and we were better conditioned than our opponents. I think our coming back early from the holidays
for practice really helped us. Even in the matches we lost, I felt that we were wrestling very well,” coach
Tom Oddo said.

Matches against Howard and Morgan State had to be canceled due to the snow, and Apprentice College called off another
match at the last minute. However, the wrestlers still had many opportunities to wrestle.

In one of the most exciting matches yet this season, the wrestlers outlasted Washington and Lee 25-24. Despite giving up
24 points in forfeits, the wrestlers fought back and didn’t lose a single match. Freshman Christian Baker started off by
defeating Washington and Lee’s co-captain with a 6-0 decision, and Miller Cary followed with another victory. In the 177-pound weight
class, Seth Herman defeated his opponent in a major decision, and at 190 pounds, Ben Wall squeezed past Washington and
Lee’s Colin Looney in an exciting and controversial overtime victory. Wall controlled the entire match and earned nine points, but
due to some very questionable calls, his opponent stayed close and forced a sudden death overtime. Wall finally took Looney
down to win the match, pulling Davidson within five points of Washington and Lee.

It all came down to the heavyweight match, where Davidson’s Tom Greene needed a pin for a team victory. In
the third round, Greene pinned his opponent, finishing an incredible 25-24 comeback victory.

Thinking that the snowstorm would cancel their matches, some of the wrestlers came back to school nearly fifteen pounds overweight,
forcing coach Oddo to juggle the lineup. This weight problem, coupled with a few injuries, weakened the lineup just enough
to cost the team a few matches. Against Longwood, the team gave up three forfeits and could not overcome the
18-0 deficit. The final score was 31-30. The match against Pensacola Christian College posed the same problems, and Davidson lost,
31-21. Davidson’s third defeat came at the hands of a very strong VMI team, but the Wildcats wrestled very well.

This weekend the team finished sixth out of eight teams at the Washington and Lee University Wrestling Invitational. Washington and
Jefferson won the tournament with 92.5 points, and Lebanon Valley nipped Davidson for fifth with 40 points (the Wildcats finished
with 37).

The Wildcats had two tournament runner-ups: Chip Stewart in heavyweight and Ben Wall in the 177-pound class. They also had
two fourth-place finishes: Tom Greene in the 190-pound class and Christian Baker in 134.

B-ball from page 1

contracted viral meningitis, a very contagious and sometimes fatal disease. Late last week, the student had a heart attack and
died in transit to a hospital. The school then immunized everybody who had come into contact with him, about 150
students and some basketball players. Because effects from that medicine would have prevented the players from taking part in the
game and because of an effective quarantine on those who came in contact with the stricken student, Saturday’s game was
forced to be postponed.

The game will be made up on January 31 at Davidson, and the teams’ second meeting, scheduled for February 19,
will be moved to Lexington, Virginia.

The delay was probably just as well for the Keydets as they avoided a run-in with the recently high-flying Wildcats.
Including December 21’s game against Williams, Davidson had won four of five games over the break. The only setback was
an 82-70 loss to then-No. 19 Michigan at a tournament inLas Vegas on December 30. Davidson played the Wolverines close
all game and was within two points with about four minutes left. At that point, Brandon Williams missed a dunk
that would have tied the game, and Mark Donnelly grabbed the offensive rebound but missed the follow-up shot. From there,
the Wolverines made the requisite free throws and started pulling away. But the Wildcats have been playing great since then,
trouncing two Patriot League teams — Lafayette and Navy — and using a 39-2 run to top East Tennessee State
and an 18-0 run to build an insurmountable lead over Furman. Those two conference wins raised hopes about potentially winning
the conference and the NCAA tournament bid that goes with it. McKillop downplayed such optimism. “After we beat ETSU by
30 points, when we were playing as well as we possibly could and they were playing as poorly as they
possibly could,” he said, “I had a lot of people tell me that we were going to waltz through the
Southern Conference. If that becomes your mindset, there’s no way you can play as need be... We cannot miss a
beat; we cannot let up an inch. We have to bring our best to the table every game if we're
going to win.”

While it may not have looked it, Davidson served up some pretty good stuff Thursday night in beating UNCC. By
the numbers, the game certainly was not a thing of beauty. Davidson’s point total matched its lowest of the season.
It was the 49ers' lowest total in about 12 years. The Wildcats shot 34 percent for the game, UNCC 32
percent. The 49ers helped shoot themselves in the foot by hitting only 12 of 25 free throws, led by Bobby
Kummer’s 2-of-8 shooting. The constant in that game, as it has been most of the season, was clutch defense. The
Wildcats allowed just three points over the final 4:10 of the game. With a 45-44 lead, point guard Chris Alpert
made a crucial three-pointer. Davidson then made enough free throws down the stretch to hold on for the win, retaining
the Hornets’ Nest Trophy for the third year in a row. Williams led the way with 18 points, ten in
the second half. Quinn Harwood scored 11 of his 13 points in the first half and grabbed 11 rebounds. “The
defense has been the constant throughout the year,” McKillop said. “Our senior leadership and depth are really showing through ...
Never before have we beaten teams so handily. And it’s all attributed to defensive runs. Against Furman, a 13-point deficit
went to a 21-point lead, and it all goes back to defense.”

One of the biggest challenges for the Wildcats over the rest of the season will be proving their mettle on
the road and not looking past any opponents. Ray Mineland goes for a shot against UNCC. Rob Kosicki. Davidson has
played only three road games and two neutral-site games, going 3-2 in those games. “The test of this team will
be to become road warriors,” McKillop said. “Conference play is not one to be judged by numbers and statistics. Any
team can beat any team in the conference right now ... We can’t be putting pressure on ourselves right now
beyond winning the next game ... We have to pretend each game is an NCAA game.”

Davidson is scheduled to return to action Tuesday night at Appalachian State but doesn’t play at home again until January
29 against Georgia Southern.

Don’t worry! There’s still time to sign up for Ballroom Dancing Lessons. Please, I need a PE credit. Call Teresa
- 6262. Oh, and Mike Scarbo is looking for a partner.

FORGET TO SMILE? HAVE A BAD HAIR DAY? WANT TO BE REMEMBERED DIFFERENTLY? ~ YEARBOOK PICTURE RETAKES ~ JANUARY 31
10 a.m. - 5 p.m. Chambers Gallery.
