THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1996

Yantie Ardie

I called Davidson “home” for two years, and recently returned to visit my old friends here. Upon asking them, “What’s
up?” I invariably received the reply: “Nothing much. Nothing really changes around here.” One observed: “Well, nothing’s really changed around
here in the past 150 years, except for the addition of women, and some people don’t seem to have noticed
that yet.”

I understand that many of the things I say will be offensive and inflammatory, and in some ways they are
intended to be so. I do make generalizations and stereotypes, and sometimes I exaggerate for emphasis. But in it all,
watch for the grain of truth, because it is unmistakably there.

Davidson in some ways grew to be a college for the sons of rich plantation owners, and hasn’t quite been
able to rid itself of that stigma. I am almost tempted to draw a parallel between the old practice of
slavery and the current one of “buying” international and minority students, the majority of which are on very generous amounts
of financial aid (thank you, Davidson). With due respect to students not included in those categories, ever noticed who constitutes
(over the years) the majority of student workers in the cafeteria? If the ratio of students engaged in work/study, as
well as those who cater and work in the cafeteria for extra money, were extrapolated to the rest of the
student body, we would have a really colorful campus. No more J. Clones and khaki.

Which brings me to my next point about reasons for “buying” internationals and minorities (aside from the cheap labor) —
for exhibition. The admissions office needs a nice, diverse looking glossy to help remove that nasty taint of “racism” which
seems to follow the word “Davidson” in the minds and mouths of international and minority students here. Again, if students
on exhibition... A student (notice, a white, Southern American male student) pointed out that even he felt uncomfortable with the
yearly International Festival because it almost seemed like a freak show — “LOOK, Mommy, a Pakistani! Can I get him
to write my name for me?” Yeah, and if you feed him, he’ll dance for you.

As it is, we make a wonderful petting zoo: “Yes, see here on the right, we do have African-Americans on
this campus.” Bought and paid for. Just like in the past.

On a quick tangent, I would like to point out that I’m not an African-American, and don’t have the right
to speak for them, but my guess is they aren’t particularly thrilled with a lot of aspects of this campus
either. Let’s face it — as one of my best friends pointed out, “Beggars can’t be choosers.” How many less
international and minority students would we have if Davidson didn’t give out the financial aid it does to those groups?
Hey, that’s okay, we’re used to it. The white man has traditionally controlled the world for its own purposes —
why should Davidson be any different?

Back to the idea of Diverse...

I am writing in response to Vinod Thomas’ letter last week about my article titled, “Yes, I am an angry
feminist.” Vinod Thomas attacked me for citing “examples of oppression of women in foreign, non-Western countries.” He chastised me for
neglecting to mention inequalities that exist in the Western world. What he failed to note was that I qualified my
statements about Pakistan by mentioning that Pakistan was not the only country where problems existed for women. The pulled quote
in my article concerned the level of oppression women “all over the world suffer.” I then went further to mention
that in the United States twenty-five percent of women are victims of sexual assault at some point in their lives.

What I perceived to be the situation in Pakistan simply provided the impetus for me to write the article, and
that is why I chose to expound on that particular issue. The point of my article was not to attack
Islam, or third world countries — it was simply to highlight the fact that “women’s issues” do exist. It would
have been impossible for me to mention, in a 500-word opinions article, ALL the problems that women face in the
world!

In my defense, for the time being, I did not intend or rather blatantly state that I am perpetuating the
belief that inequality between the sexes has been eradicated in the U.S. Let me ask you this question — if
I were to write an article about rape statistics in the U.S., would anybody question why I didn’t expound upon
similar issues in Bosnia, Ghana, or Pakistan? Would I be, by definition, inferring that those problems didn’t exist in those
countries? The answer, I’m sure, is no.

On a more personal note, women’s issues in non-Western countries affect me directly as I am half Indian Muslim, grew
up in India, have spent a lot of time in Pakistan, and have plenty of family in both Pakistan and
India. I am, in no way, trying to vilify the third world as I consider myself, in some ways, its
product. I resent the fact that there are people at...Davidson who are trying to use a human rights issue as
an excuse to wage a cultural war. (I’ve tried it. It works.) We earn our purpose at this institution —
warm bodies to serve food and to show off when needed. But what happens when it comes to our concerns?
Ask some random minority and international students... We feel so listened to, many are living on a couch in someone
else’s home for three weeks. Maybe I was imagining a lot of these things, that my friends and I were
just unhappy because we were in a strange country away from home and weren’t used to things. But it’s hard
to “imagine away” two really difficult years, not just mine, but those long years of so many other people who
share a common experience. It’s not to say that there aren’t good things about Davidson; there are. But I transferred
out to another school, and now, having a comparison, I simply cannot believe what so many people here put up
with. We are often asked to cite specific examples of what is really wrong, and I have. But it’s more
like a birdcage: if it were any one prejudice, any one unpleasantry, any one constraint, it would be the one
wire of a birdcage — we could easily fly around it. However, when there are a large number of injustices,
of students ignored, we are faced with a thousand crisscrossed wires from which we cannot free ourselves to fly, to
learn, to experience the fullness of all that might be “the college experience.” Davidson has great things to offer many
people, and just sometimes, we’d rather not walk alone.

Liz Reid

Skinny Girls was more than just “entertainment”

After reading James Berry’s critique of “Skinny Girls” I was shocked! And then I got upset. And so I found
my pen. Like every other Davidson student, I put off my work an hour or so every Monday to read
The Davidsonian, but not to read such a bland and unfeeling article! I really feel that it was a real
letdown to the type of reporting that has previously been published. Actually, I have visions of a journalist with a
notebook perched on his knee, furiously describing the cast and costumes, when it didn’t even matter if the actors had
been naked standing in the middle of a field! I feel sorry that perhaps the author of the article was
too busy jotting down notes to really listen to the message of the play. So much for the intimate feel
of the Black Box Theater, if all you can hear is “the actors... crack their knuckles”! The whole idea of
presenting a play in the Black Box was to give such an intimate look into this deeply disturbing psychological problem
that has a profound effect; not only on the psyche and reasoning of an anorexic or bulimic, but also on
their family and friends. I don’t really feel that the play was big on entertainment value, despite the fact that
it was interspersed with jokes and amusing parodies of misunderstanding mothers, etc. It just made a powerful wrong conclusion. Anorexia
and Bulimia are DISEASES. An anorexic doesn’t just wake up on a Tuesday morning and decide perhaps he/she would like
to deprive their body of food, then a week later on Friday decide, “Hey, this whole downward cycle/self-punishment just isn’t
working for me.” Too bad. These diseases don’t go away even after the weight is gained back, or the purging
stops. It lingers. I feel as if you are standing in the middle of a field! Berry seemed to get
so caught up in his neat little descriptive narrative that randomly describes the seating of the audience and the logistics
of the set. Granted, he did inject a few short descriptions of the mini-scenes, but the whole point of the
play was missed! Sorry to get so personal, but it simply disgusts me that a viewer could walk out of
the play and make a statement like, “I gathered I was not the only one who’d been entertained.” This play
was one of the most realistic interpretations about eating disorders that I have ever viewed. Perhaps Berry has not had
experience with anorexia or bulimia, personally or with a sibling or a friend, but for me, the play’s examples rang
a little too true. The most powerful aspect of this production was that it didn’t regurgitate statistics and textbook explanations.
The audience wasn’t bombarded with faceless numbers related to the typical “13-25 year old females, usually white, middle to upper
class...” Instead, it offered suggestions about the multiplicity of possibilities as to why this disease affects some women and not
others, how to deal with it, etc. Another point brought up in James Berry’s article: The lack of resolution in
the production: Excellent, poignant, fabulous insight! An important presentation and “didn’t even feel obligated to heighten [his] awareness.” To anyone
who attended and listened, your awareness WAS heightened. I feel that the author of last week’s article showed a callous
disregard to the message that the actors and playwright depicted with professional ease. The article was disrespectful not only to
the actors, but to anyone who has ever struggled, or watched someone battle with these diseases. I would hardly call
the depiction of a power struggle between mind and body “entertainment.”

Deane Teo

Disagree? Have your own idea? Kristen or Nina, x2148
