16 DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1996

Fresh Faces

Landry Kosmalski
Kosmalski, a 6-7 power forward from Bedford, Tex., has made an immediate impact for the Wildcats, stepping to the forefront of this year’s outstanding rookie class. He recorded a double-double in an exhibition game versus the Global Sports All-Stars, his first college action ever, scored 18 against the Charlotte Royals last week, and came through with a 16-point, 10-rebound effort yesterday in the season-opening 87-73 victory at Fairleigh-Dickinson. As an Academic All-Stater, Kosmalski led Trinity to the Texas state championship, averaging 20 points and 13 boards. His father, Len, played in the NBA with the Kansas City Kings and Chicago Bulls. “He’s playing like a veteran,” lauded McKillop. “I think he’s made a statement already about how talented he is. I’d like to see if there’s a better freshman in the Southern Conference.” — MICHAEL KRUSE

Davor Halbauer
Halbauer brings a soft long-range shooting touch to Davidson from basketball-rich Croatia. The 6-3 shooting guard averaged 17 points and 8 assists for his junior club team in Zagreb. He is the third international player on coach McKillop’s roster, along with Narcisse Ewodo from Cameroon and Ali Ton from Turkey. “Davidson is a nice place. I like it,” said Halbauer. “Everybody knows each other. That’s the good thing about it. Here you can meet a lot of people. That’s a very good experience for me because everything is new for me. It was difficult at first. Still now I don’t speak good English. I am happy because my teammates and all the people here, including professors, they really help me to understand. Without these people, I don’t think I would learn so fast.” — MLK.

Stephen Marshall
Marshall, who averaged 16 points and 10 rebounds last year at the Governor’s School in Midlothian, Va., was sidelined for much of the preseason with Hepatitis A. The 6-8 forward, who lost 20 lbs. as a result of the sickness, will resume light activities in a week or so, but will likely not see game action for another 2-3 weeks. “Stephen is as solid as we can get in the post here at Davidson,” said McKillop. “We are very pleased with what he did in the preseason and optimistic about what he’s going to do during his career here.” “I’d like to be one of the best teams that Davidson has ever had,” said Marshall. “Hopefully we (the freshmen) will be one of the best classes that’s ever been here and win the conference championship and an NCAA bid. Maybe a few of them.” — MLK.

Jeff Bergmann
Bergmann, who set school records for long jump and high jump while at Conant High in Elk Grove, Ill., brings versatility and the ability to play three positions to the Wildcats. The 6-3 guard averaged 15.5 ppg, 5.2 rpg, and 4.9 apg as team captain his junior and senior campaigns at Conant and was named to the Windy City Roundball All-Star Team. — MLK.

Meagan Gleason
Gleason, a 5-5 guard from Juneau, Alaska, comes to Davidson after a successful senior year at Douglas High, where her team won the state title. Gleason hit six three-pointers in the championship and was named player of the game. She sunk a remarkable 91 threes for the season. “I am excited to be part of such a talented and devoted team,” said Gleason. “We have so much potential.” “We were very fortunate to find Meagan this spring,” said coach Filar. “She adds versatility to the squad.” — NATALIE STUMPF

Jen O’Brien
O’Brien, a 5-5 guard from Mercy High in Middletown, Conn., was named the state’s Player of the Year last season. She was also a first team All-Stater for three years. She has great ball handling skills and exceptional court vision. O’Brien notched seven points and seven assists in 18 minutes against Fort Bragg in an exhibition last week. “She isa fantastic team player who is very unselfish,” said Filar. “Yet she can step up and be a scorer when needed.” —NS.

Katy Kamp
Katy Kamp, a 6-1 post-player from Lakeshore High in Stevensville, Mich., was named MVP in the state All-Star game after her senior year. She was Michigan’s leading scorer in girls basketball last year and tallied a school-record 40 points in one contest. “Katy is a rare player—so many aspects of her game are strong,” noted Filar. Kamp says that she feels excited to be part of the team and is looking forward to making a run at the Southern Conference championship. —NSS.

By MENNEN Dry, Unspecial Correspondent

THE MOUNTAIN HOUSE, N.C. — The volleyball team fell in four games to evil purple Furman this weekend. “We played well,” said coach Lisa Radford. “It was unfortunate that Furman played well, too.” The team finished the season with an 11-22 record, three more games than they won during last year’s 8-25 campaign.

Volleyball falls to Furman in first round of conference tournament

Radford didn’t have the game scores when contacted late Sunday night. The Davidsonian sports staff wishes to sincerely apologize to the volleyball team for lack of serious coverage in this week’s issue. Our very special correspondent lost his way to the tournament and ended up in his mountain house in western North Carolina. We will amend this error in our next issue.

Everybody’s All-American Tim Duncan, Deacons loom
By MICHAEL KRUSE Sports Editor

The men’s basketball team faces the first of many stern early non-conference tests on Friday night, traveling to Winston-Salem for a 7:30 matchup with the Demon Deacons of Wake Forest. Last year the Wildcats posted one of their best seasons in decades, winning 25 games and earning their second NIT berth in three years. But the Deacons boast some formidable recent history as well. They have recorded a school-best 26 victories and top 10 national finishes in each of the past two years, captured back-to-back ACC tournament titles—the first school to do that since 1982—and advanced to the regional finals in the NCAA Tournament last March, falling there to eventual national champion Kentucky.

Even better for Wake, 6-10 center Tim Duncan, the premier collegiate player in America, bucked the ever-increasing trend of star underclassmen jumping to the NBA and decided to stay on campus for this, his senior year. Duncan was a third-team All-American as a sophomore and a first-teamer last year and garnered national preseason Player of the Year honors this fall. NBA coaches, who projected Duncan to be the No. 1 pick in last year’s draft, have dubbed him the national Defensive Player of the Year the last two seasons. As the Wake Forest media guide asks, “Is there more for him to accomplish?” Apparently Duncan thought there was.

“Being a part of Wake Forest and the basketball program here has meant a great deal to me the past three years,” said Duncan. “At this point in my life, I feel the best thing for me is to remain at Wake Forest for one more year.”

That decision has virtually single-handedly kept the Deacons (currently No. 3 in the AP poll) in contention for another conference crown and even a national championship. The prolific rebounder and shot-blocker represents a tremendously tough assignment for any opponent, and it will be no different for Wildcat center Chadd Holmes and the rest of the Davidson front line. Senior Ricky Peral (9.4 ppg last year), a 6-10 swingman, and junior point guard Tony Rutland (7.2) are also keys to Wake’s success.

“Tim Duncan is a really good player. No question about that. But we are not frightened by anybody,” said freshman shooting guard Davor Halbauer. “If we can play like we know how to play, I think we can win this game. We always have a chance if we play like we know how.”