THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, a 25, 194 On the Horizon HOROSCO. Vertical Horizon brings their tour to Davidson
By JASON SCHMIDT Staff Writer Saturday night, Vertical Horizon overwhelmed Davidson’s campus for the umpteenth time. Picking up Vertical on
a last-minute cancellation, Davidson College Union Intimate Performances Committee packed the 900 Room with over 250 students and had another
successful Saturday Night Live success. VH’s sound was overwhelming and tight. They played a wide range of tunes from old
classics to new songs. The upbeat guitar riffs kept the crowd jumping in the normally dormant 900 Room. This show
was the last in a series of Fall Tour dates for VH. Even though the band was ready to head
home, they still played a two-hour set and left the crowd begging for more. The Fall Tour took the band
beyond their normal East coast setting into the Midwest. The band said their Midwest following was slow to come, but
they were developing a strong fan base. This tour is the last before their next release, a live album featuring
many guest artists. Most of this new album was recorded during the tour and includes many tunes from a two-night
stint at Ziggy’s. Unlike Jackopierce, Vertical has made an easy transition to a more electric sound. They have not lost
the positive elements of their acoustic duet while enhancing the overall sound by spicing up older pieces with electric solos
and new bass lines. The bass and drums stepped beyond their stereotypical background roles to enhance the sound of the
band as a whole. The better acoustics of the 900 Room allowed for a much better performance than when they
played at Sig Ep earlier this year. Overall this show was a complete success, not only for IPC, but for
Vertical Horizon as well. A SINGING SENSATION: Ecdysis, Katherine Palmer and Diane Krause, played at Cosmic Coffee on Friday night.
Bill Gid Poet from page 10 sense of its assertions, and one has the sense of having witnessed nothing short
of poetic birth, or better said, a baptism in the things of this world. The last poem in the book,
easily the most delightful (amid its darker moments), is called “Passing a Truck Full of Chickens at Night on Highway
Eighty.” Seeing one particularly fiery bantam, the speaker slows the car, and observes it: She looked around, watched me, then
strained to see over the car—strained to see what happened beyond. That is the chicken I want to be. As
far as I am worthy of making the judgment, I would say that these are poems, as Levine also asserts.
But I would also say that these poems are, or have the tendency to be, in their more crucial moments,
Philip Levine’s poems. In the poem quoted above, the speaker’s comparison of self to fowl is shocking, but not unusual.
Levine did it twenty years ago in his poem “Not this Pig.” Of course, the two poems are not identical,
but the assertion at the end of Mead’s has striking parallels in Levine’s. Both share poems about rehabilitated painters as
well, but then I suppose everyone writes at least one poem about a rehabilitated painter. This is not to say
that Mead does not have an original voice. She has. Sifting through her poems, one encounters lines like this, which
neither Levine nor anyone else could write.From “Concerning the Prayer I Cannot Make”:

Listen—all you bare trees, burrs, brambles, piles of twigs, red and green lights flashing, muddy bottle shards, shoe half buried—listen,
listen, I am holy. Anyone wanting to buy Mead’s The Lord and General Din of the World should contact the
Davidson College Bookstore or Main Street Books, who both will order the book. Thanks especially to Professor Tony Abbott, Cintra
Pollock, and the Davidson College Literary Arts Committee for bringing Jane Mead to Davidson, and for the warm reception following
her reading.

By Dorcas AND A HEDGEHOG Consulting Astrologists

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21)—Await the arrival of the carrier pigeon from Land o’ Lakes. You will be able to recognize
your pigeon by the take-home test in its beak. Lucky Aviary: do you know the name of one?

Capricorn (December 22—January 19)—Buy a mule (burro) and take your new beast of burden to a pasture. Preferably a pasture
in Eastern California. Be careful not to get stuck in Lodi (again). Lucky Coffee Figure: Juan Valdez.

Aquarius (January 20—February 18)—Try to pronounce these words... coelacanth, gaoler, Houyhnhnms, Tlaquepaque, Scheherezade, Quetzlcoatl, cthonian, Lou Ferigno. Week’s Leitmotif: Verbiage.

Pisces (February 19-March 20)—You with the albatross around your neck, the stars show a seaside adventure for you soon. Beware
of the longshoreman with the yellow hat. He stands alone on a wharf. Lucky Phrase: “I have the conch.”

Aries (March 21-April 20)—Think about your Holiday shopping. Buy some gifts from the magi. Suggested purchases: combs and watches. Lucky
Person: Mary Clare Jalonick and her one large knee. Wounded.

Taurus (April 21-May 20)—Do not drink from the Cask of Amontillado. Très dangereux mon ami. You are better off drinking
from the Old Well or the Chalice of Vlad the Impaler. Lucky Beverage Triumvirate: Ale, Bock, and Mead.

Gemini (May 21-June 20)—Seventeen-year locusts are in your room. This probably comes as no surprise to some of you. Our
advice: wait it out. Your place is not Shangri-La, but it ain’t so bad. Lucky Bug: 17-year locusts.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)—You are some kind of wonderful. Why are you so great every week? For the simple reason
that I am a Cancer.

Leo (July 23-August 22)—If you are bored this week, think about obscure things. Be fearless and name the whole cast
of “Fame.”

Virgo (August 23-September 22)—Have sex to the William Tell Overture. Rossini would be proud of you. If you make it
through the whole piece, then be very proud of yourself. It has never been done before you. Lucky Places: WDAV,
Cunningham.

Libra (September 23-October 22)—Well, go to McDonald’s and name as many of their characters as you can to obtain a
free meal. Shoe-in: Birdie.

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)—Venerate the palindrome. Here is a good one to try. Think T.R.—A man, a plan, a canal,
PANAMA!! Ah, what an isthmus. Lucky Stick: Big. Lucky Question: Why are Swedish bands always palindromic? ABBA, AHA?

Be an Arts editor. Call Susan. -2148.

Unity Transportation Services
Your Total Transportation Services
* Airport Transportation
* Christmas Parties
* Dependable Safe Service
* Holiday Student, Faculty Prices

To Airport:
1 Person $25
2 People $30
3 People $35
Return from Airport also Available

Charlotte Office: 553-1356
Mooresville Office: 660-5048
1-800-449-1006

Mini Vans * 12 Passenger Vans * 15 Passenger Vans (Available upon Request)
