THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1996

Thanks to Gravity slingshots new release

By WILL FOY
Staff Writer

Relentless is a word that comes to mind for much of Thanks to Gravity’s newest album, Slingshot, on AWARE Records. The album’s 10 tracks move from relentless acoustic rock with a twinge of industrial rhythm, to slow, haunting, emotionally relentless ballads, like “Catching Stars on Paper Plates.” This persistence of music is driven by all four of this Portsmouth, NH band, especially in live performance: Andy Happel on acoustic guitars, vocals, and violin; Feelix Caughran on piano, synths, and Hammond B-3; Sean Daniels on percussion and backing vocals; and Drew Wyman on bass. Each member propels forceful rhythms with great technical skill.

Andy mentioned to me at Jack Straw’s that while his guitar skills are self-taught, he has studied classical violin since age 3. Sean, like many drummers, continually practices to perfect his craft, and Drew, dissatisfied with commercial products, built his own bass, the “Grooverocker.” Feelix searches for new sounds to plug into his synths, such as the airplane takeoff used in “Phenomenon of Flight” or the dolphin clicks on “Bobsled.”

Stylistically, Thanks to Gravity doesn’t fit into any standard boxes, but their sound is a pleasant mixture of acoustic instruments and electrified technology. Happel’s vocals are unique, and on the violin, he is just as expressive. Wyman’s Grooverocker flies through miles of funk in many Thanks to Gravity songs, but at times lays a sensitive groove. Caughran, while a player of one of the most currently ridiculed instruments (the synthesizer), does play with talent, and a genuine feel for what synths are supposed to be. Daniels’ drumming features complicated rhythms and many, many percussive devices, including well over a dozen cymbals, and a newly purchased MIDI drum for fun. His harmony on vocals adds to the layered mixture.

Meaningful lyrics, not teen angst or alternative rage, are the primary feature of most of the TTG catalog. “Catching Stars...” calls for political reform “brothers... oh brothers in the clouds/when will your hands be clean.” Sexual restraint appears in “Isometric Plaything,” as Happel warns “you know I can’t do that/you know I can’t/this is not going to be easy.” Confusion in a “Crowded World,” or bitter goodbyes in “Last Time.” Perhaps the most pointed tune in the bunch is the unlisted “Spoddies and Birits,” a tune directed at materialism, lack of care for others, and the stereotyping each of us contributes to our social lives. Happel writes: “it’s sick when partners criticize the ones with the cheaper car/the ones with the older tires/the ones who stop to chat/a foreign man ignores his kids.”

You can listen to this album on WALT’s rotation; call 2471 and ask for it.

Acts from page 10

sorts of woman problems. When he’s in the second grade, his mother (Jackie Rasulo) commits suicide. His necrophiliac grandmother (Tamra Carhart), obsessed with the last pictures taken of any deceased, tries to comfort him but can do little to help. Wallace gets his first kiss in eighth grade from Sarah (Emily Eagan), and though she instigates the kiss, she calls Wallace “too fast” and runs away. At thirteen, he ruins another relationship, this time with Victoria (Emily Eagan). Though he loses his virginity to Lilly (Kate Laidlaw) as a college freshman, she wants to introduce him to her sister Nina (Jackie Rasulo), who he falls in love with.

The subject matter ranged from dramatic monologues to quick one-liners, but the actors did a great job of keeping the pace as well as changing character or age. The final segment consisted of Christopher Durang’s “Naomi in the Living Room” and Maria Irene Fornes’s “The Conduct of Life.” They were directed by students Joshua Buchanan and Amanda Davis respectively. These two plays were contrasts in subject matter and audience reaction. “Naomi in the Living Room” depicted the bizarre visit of straight-laced John (Bobby Ramsay) and sweet wife Johnna (Jane Ruschky) to John’s mother’s (Naomi, played by Jennifer Neale) apartment. Jennifer Neale provided an exceptional rendition of John’s erratic mother. Her performance was characterized by brief periods of seeming mental containment and sudden eruptions of lunacy. The quirky script provided for much of the work’s humor. Naomi describes her living room as the area for living. Correspondingly, the kitchen is the place of all...things kitsch, most notable and familiar of such things is a gnome. Perhaps the most exciting point in the play, besides Miss Neale’s unpredictable spasms, was when Mr. Ramsay donned female attire, a short sun dress identical to that worn by Miss Ruschky. This was a frightening moment for the audience and perhaps more frightening is my admittance that he looked good. A well-directed gem, this play provided countless aspects for the audience to love: cross-dressing, spousal mimicry, an insane old hag, etc. The audience was required to redirect their emotions for the next piece, “The Conduct of Life.” The comical aspects of the first work were traded for the serious matters of sexual abuse, the disintegration of relationships, and the maintenance of one’s disillusioned sanity. Dramatic performances by all members of the cast propelled this work: Laura Seib as Leticia, Stowe Beamas Alejo, and Jessica Robblee as Nena. Trey Adams’s brutal depiction of Orlando was most prominent and disturbing. Similarly, Southern belle Kay Walraven’s rendition of a disgruntled Italian maid (Olimpia) threatened to steal the show. Once again, this work was well-directed, highlighted by excellent use of lights and choice of scenes depicted. If you missed the one acts this year, consider this article promotion for next year’s efforts.

The Davidsonian is looking for people who want to work on the editorial staff next semester. If you want to help edit news or art, take pictures, manage advertising or work on the web page, call John or Mary Clare x-2148.

HOROSCOPE
By Dorcas AND MADGE
Consulting Astrologists

Taurus (April 20-May 20) — You are blessed by Shamash, the Assyro-Babylonian Sun God. He is responsible for the sunny weather. Pay homage to him this week. In lieu of burnt offerings, write for Opinions next year. Lucky Section of the Davidsonian: Opinions.

Gemini (May 21-June 20) — Don’t be afraid of the big bad Latin beat. It is inevitable that you join a Conga line in your lifetime. Hey Girls, slay his heart with a slanderous Mambo. Lucky Singer: Tito Puente. Perpetually Unlucky Singer: Gloria Estefan.

Cancer (June 21-July 22) — Beware of the ubiquitous people on campus. They may be following you. Superman’s Father is a walkin’ talkin’ miracle. Lucky Places: Anywhere on campus, Bruegger’s Bagels, the Planet Krypton.

Leo (July 23-August 22) — Practice restraint this week. By the weekend, you will have the continence of Morrissey — if you want it. Leitmotif: hair shirts.

Virgo (August 23-September 22) — This week you will be visited by a band of minstrels. They are only in town for a few days, so live it up, buttercup. Lucky Song: Greensleeves. Lucky Place: Vu? Green.

Libra (September 23-October 22) — Watch old figure skating tapes this week. They are enjoyable. Try to learn a triple axle or lutz. Lucky Skaters, Pairs: Ty Babylonia and Randy Gardner.

Scorpio (October 23-November 22) — Collect insects on the cross-country trails. Beware of the fire ants. Once you have collected the insects, pin them through the thorax. Watch them scream. Just kidding. Lucky Insects: Stinkbug, Earwig. Unlucky insect: Scorpion.

Sagittarius (November 23-December 21) — Begin music lessons. You will prevail in percussion. We recommend the wood-blocks, kettle drums or that you just bang two rocks together really hard. Lucky instrument: cymbals.

Capricorn (December 22-January 19) — Do not strike a Faustian bargain this week. It is almost time for you to take your finals. It is not wise for you to deal with the devil this week. Unlucky Amorphous Being: Mephistopheles.

Aquarius (January 20-February 18) — Jupiter ascending highlights creativity. You are particularly adept in the kitchen, primarily as a pastry chef. Lucky Food: Strudel, Turnovers, Napoleons.

Pisces (February 19-March 20) — You feel out of the loop this week. To counter these feelings, explore the Zeitgeist at the local coffeehouses. Lucky Drink: Vanilla Latte.

Aries (March 21-April 19) — This week you will be graced by the presence of a true Harlequin. Yes, there is pantomime in the air, folks. “Investing” in a lottery ticket is a good idea this week. Lucky Numbers: 13, 4, 98, 7, 2.

For a private personal reading call Dorcas or Madge at 1-900-FREE-LUV.

Reed’s Seafood & Catering
Featuring GREAT Seafood, outstanding Ribeye Steaks, our famous Barbecue and award-winning Banana Pudding: PLUS Much More!
LUNCH HOURS: Friday, 11:30 - 2:00 P.M.
DINNER: Tues. - Sat., 5:00 P.M. - 9:00 P.M.
18150 Statesville Rd., CORNELIUS