THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1996

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Arts & Living Editor
JAMES BERRY

Executive Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
CARRIE BLACKBURN

Copy Editors
MARY CLARE JALONICK
SUSAN RUGGIERO
MARY TOWLES ALLISON
JILL WILLIAMS

Associate Editor
TERESA WHITE

Sports Editor
WILL BRADSHAW

Advertising Managers
BEN GRIFFIN
BONNER MEAD

News Editor
CATHERINE ANDERSON

Assistant Sports Editor
MICHAEL KRUSE

Circulation Manager
CHLOE BROOKE

Assistant News Editors
NARESH NAGELLA
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL

Photography Editor
JOSH GLAZER

Cartoonist
GREG GARRISON

Opinions Editor
KATIE McKELVIE

Business Manager
KATHERINE HASH

Web Page Manager
BRAD CHASE

Assistant Business Manager
CAROLINE BYNUM

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

MULTIPLE SOCIAL OPTIONS, AND REGIONAL PRESTIGE ARE THREATENED BY THE ABOLITION OF OUR Patterson’s Complaint

LETTERS

We're pathetic. It’s Saturday. How could you possibly have so much to read? Three tests this week, ugh. You really
should go hibernate in the library. Your roommate is going to the mall. Your friends are drinking somewhere off campus.
You are beat from last night, maybe you should just take a nap.

From your room, you see non-students walking by. Where are they going? Hmm... That’s right, there’s a basketball game. Wasn’t
there a sign somewhere? You are feeling crazy. So sick of that Davidson rut. Maybe you’ll do something else for
a change. Get rid of that headache—from too much exposure to that all-too-familiar psychedelic green carpet or Friday night, you’re
not sure. You heave your tired body out of your dorm and head towards Baker. You walk past alums and
local fans wearing Davidson gear and walk into Belk Arena. Wow. People are cheering. Shirtless men with W-I-L-D-C-A-T-S written on
their individual chests jump up and down. Dean Shandley, Dean Terry, and President Kuykendall all sit together with their families.
Professors walk by with their children and chat with students. Cheerleaders with bright red lipstick, huge bows and beaming smiles
shout their hearts out and are thrown in the air. Little boys with Davidson hats and shirts run in circles
around the perimeter of the arena. The Pines collectively does the wave. Best of all, you see friends, classmates, fellow
Davidson students giving it their all down on the court.

You walk down into the student section, surprised at how small it is. You don’t know that much about basketball,
but the game is still exciting. Davidson soon manages to turn the game to their advantage. Two minutes left, we’re
up by two points. In the last seconds, that guy in your Organic Chem class dunks the ball and gives
Davidson another win. The crowd goes wild.

But who is in that crowd?

In Saturday’s Charlotte Observer, William P. Bray, ‘89, wrote a letter to the “Your Voice” column in the Sports Section
as “a challenge to all Davidson alumni in the Charlotte area.” He writes, “We are in the midst of our
greatest basketball season since our last Southern Conference tournament championship in the ‘85-’86 campaign... The problem is, you wouldn’t notice
it from the crowds turning out at Belk Arena for our games... Remember Johnston Gym? Let’s get at it and
pack our new home for today’s game against Marshall, and show the few students who bother to show up what
it was like when Wildcats’ games were an event on campus.”

How embarrassing.

Well, Saturday, students did turn out for one of the most exciting games Davidson has had in a long time.
Sadly, though, it was an exception. Not that there isn’t a large contingent who can call themselves the faithful, that
there isn’t a vocal and extremely supportive minority who attend every game and cheer loud enough for the whole student
body—there is and they do.

But why shouldn’t games still be an “event on campus?” Basketball doesn’t have any more home games, but Davidson has
many more sports to offer. Go see a baseball game. Go see a tennis match. Go watch lacrosse. The spirit
of teamwork must move beyond the limits of the team members and coach. For any team to be wholly successful,
it needs the complete and unfailing support—the unfailing enthusiasm—of the student body.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address all
correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are locatedOn
the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not
necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available
upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Minor concerns

To the Editors:

In your recent edition dedicated to exploring the topic of academic minors, I read with interest the comments in which
the Careers Office and I were credited with supporting the desire of students at Davidson to minor in a discipline
as well as major in another. While it is in fact true that the staff and I promote acquiring unique
and diverse experiences as a complement to academic achievement, a concern I have raised repeatedly about minors at Davidson is
the demand which will be placed upon the student who elects both a major and a minor. By demand I
mean that students will be required to demonstrate a measurable significant acquisition of knowledge in any curricular design which carries
the stamp of approval “Minor in ...” I venture to say to students that minor does not mean a few
courses randomly chosen within a discipline but suggests a past, present, and future orientation to the discipline requiring possibly as
much reading, writing, and synthesis as is demanded in a major. For that reason, I have on each occasion when
asked about minors and getting jobs, discussed my concern and suggested that the concentration options at Davidson are a unique
and possibly preferable way of getting a significant other academic experience for a resume.

My admiration for the far-sightedness of concentrations comes from the collaboration of departments — Philosophy, Religion, Sociology, Anthropology, Biology, Math,
Economics, Art, History, Languages, Political Science — and from the experiential, practical training or research component of most concentrations —
Medical Humanities, Ethnic Studies, International Studies, Gender Studies, Neuroscience Concentration, and Applied Mathematics Concentration. Employers routinely praise the Davidson resume,
pointing to the liberal arts curriculum as extremely valid for work in today’s marketplace. They attribute initial interest in a
candidate to the diversity of experiences which support the impressive academic studies. Research experiences, internships, practicums, and summer jobs balanced
with demonstrated campus leadership are the telling factors to recruiters who look for potential and preparation in graduating seniors.

Whether Davidson faculty elect to offer minors, or whether Davidson students choose to add a minor to their academic studies
is a complex issue in which both voices need to be heard. The Careers Office hopes to be seen as
an advocate for students both on campus and off campus. If minors are approved, we will work to promote minors
as an additional indication of the dedication and determination of Davidson students to go beyond the ordinary and reach for
ever-increasing challenges. If minors are not approved, we will advocate for the concentrations as well as any other component of
the Davidson experience which makes our graduates outstanding and highly qualified to take on the rigors of the marketplace.

Sincerely,
Carol Walker Jordan
Director, Career Services

Keep Chambers clean

To the editors:

The Chambers Building is open all night for students to study. Last year, in response to student requests, the number
of rooms available for 24-hour study was expanded to better meet student needs. We would like to remind you of
the responsibilities associated with the privilege of 24-hour study in Chambers. Students must leave the study space as they find
it. Building Services staff clean classrooms every afternoon. By 8:30 a.m., many classrooms are too filthy for classroom use. Classes
have arrived to find trash including papers, drinks, pizza boxes, smeared food, magazines, even used condoms cluttering the classroom. Effective
immediately, we ask that you not eat pizza in Chambers study rooms. Please pick up after yourselves, putting trash in
the trash cans, straightening classroom furniture, and erasing boards if you use them. Remember that Chambers is left open to
provide study space. Other more social uses are not appropriate. We know that you sincerely want the use of Chambers
for extended hours to study. Please help us make this possible. It is a privilege that Davidson students can maintain
only by responsible use of the facility.

Sincerely,
Polly W. Griffin, Registrar
Thomas C. Shandley, Dean of Students
