- THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1996

Jasper’s debuts on Depot Street

By John Dunwoody
Staff Writer

Wednesday evening marked the grand opening of Jasper’s, located on Depot Street on the former site of Back Street Café. If crowd size is any indication of future success, then Jasper’s full house that night is a great sign.

Owner Dale Metzler was enthused by the grand opening. Over the Homecoming weekend, guests arrived to find the restaurant full.

He states, “Usually grand openings start out really slow and seem to wane on. That was not how it was this past Wednesday; we started out strong and continued on throughout the evening.”

One reason for Jasper’s initial success could be its elegant atmosphere.

Moore, Chandler selected for trustee committees

By Kirsten Recknagel
News Editor

Sophomore Rives Moore and senior Nelson Chandler will each serve on a trustee committee, posts Student Government Association president Warren Buford calls “the highest level of student representation.”

Moore and Chandler were nominated by the SGA’s Trustee Committee Member Selection Committee, chaired by senior Chrissie Hudson. SGA senators Lara Burkholder, Saad Gul, Steinen Gerla, and John Hutzley also served on the committee, conducting interviews with eleven candidates. No freshmen expressed interest in the trustee committee positions.

Moore was nominated for membership in the Trustee Admission and Financial Aid Committee, and Chandler was nominated to serve on the Trustee Building and Grounds Committee. Both nominations were approved by the Senate.

Moore replaces Missy Graves, whose membership in the Admission and Financial Aid Committee ended when she graduated last spring. Chandler fills a vacancy created by recent graduate Katherine Hash, who served on the Building and Grounds Committee.

Moore and Chandler will meet with their five-member Trustee Committees for several hours on October 3 and again on February 3.

Seniors Buford, Clair Freeman, and Will Cowan serve as student representatives on the trustee committees for Council on Campus and Religious Life, Athletic Policy, and Institutional Advancement, respectively.

Campus-wide elections to select next year’s student representatives will be held in January.

Metzler hopes “that Jasper’s can become part of the Davidson family.”

Right now, Jasper’s is open for lunch and dinner but the Metzlers hope to be open for breakfast starting January 1.

More additions are on the way. Metzler wants to have completed a brand new bar adjoining the restaurant to the left, also in January.

To the right of Jasper’s, a bakery and pastry shop is being built, which should be open this coming February.

In the spring, a canopy will be installed over the terrace for outdoor dining with views of an enclosed garden.

With 35 years invested in the food service industry, Metzler also hopes to expand into the banqueting business in the coming year.

Jasper's owner, Dale Metzler, chats with patrons eating lunch on Sunday.

The Duchess Nail, Hair & Tanning Salon
Full service salon for women & men

892-7030

"Best Prices in Town"

Nails
acrylic * gels * tips * fiberglass
Tanning

"Hottest Bulbs in Town"
$4.00 per session * $33.00 for 10 sessions

Treat yourself...you deserve it
Ask for Connie, Michelle, or Susan

RedKen Hair Products & more...

NAIL BOUTIQUE

Located 1/2 mile south of Davidson College Campus
20700 N. Main St.

manicures * pedicures in European spa pedicure chair

$43.00 for 15 sessions * $50.00 for 20 sessions

Students of Davidson College:

You have the opportunity to participate in political action at the grass roots level.

Tuesday, October 1 at 7:30 p.m.
Board Room of the Town Hall

The Democratic Party Precinct of Davidson will meet to organize a campaign so that every Democrat in the Davidson Precinct votes in the coming November elections.

We hope you will attend and take part if you wish.

Call Hugh Casey at 892-6734 for more information.

October 5, 1996
900 Room

An evening of drama and fine desserts with:

* Doors open @ 7:30pm, show @ 8:00pm

* $5.00/ticket—includes show and elegant dessert buffet, courtesy of Vail Commons

* Seating is limited! Buy today at the Union!

LETTERS