THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1996

Catherine Anderson - An Epiphany

Upon a recent Sunday morning perusal of The Charlotte Observer, a headline entitled, “‘Rules’ lead to the altar?” caught my eye. Struck with curiosity, I read on to find out which "Rules" the author might be referring to and to which particular altar these rules might lead. The first sentences tell all: “Are you single? Female? Always looking for Mr. Right and finding Mr. Wrong? That’s because you’re not following ‘The Rules’.” Well, thank goodness, I thought, finally an answer to my gender’s perpetual problems of love: a review of a new, foolproof, how-to book by Ellen Fein and Sherrie Schneider followed. This hot-selling bible of love and matchmaking, subtitled, Time-Tested Secrets for Capturing the Heart of Mr. Right, will grace all womankind with key tricks of the husband-catching trade.

According to these authors, the number one mistake made by women interested in marital commitment is acting like it. “If you want the man of your dreams to marry you,” said the article, “you must give up that liberated, all-genders-are-equal nonsense for an old-fashioned game of cat and mouse. Men want a challenge, not an instant or easy victory.” And all this time I was led astray, foolishly thinking that gender equality issues, or “nonsense,” served important and fulfilling functions in the lives of the female sex. Not if I wish to share that life with anyone other than Ben and Jerry, they say. My problem has been thinking men and women are equal. How silly of me. Menfolk must be kept occupied with an obstacle to overcome, otherwise risking loss of attention span and suppression of their inherent animal drives. Women must constantly stimulate the congenital male ambition by supplying men with something to do. Female company means nothing unless provided in the face of adversity, a key device used to hook a healthy husband.

The article continues, giving examples of the various rules that, if properly followed, will guarantee wedding bells to any subscriber. The first rule commands that all women adopt an attitude radiating with a confidence that penetrates the entirety of her very essence. Specifically, a woman should be a “Creature Unlike Any Other,” a veritable font of voluptuousness and sensuality simply waiting to hypnotize the opposite sex into lust and desire for the exquisite female form. How blind we have been, believing that our own personalities could ever suffice! To think that the answer to the mystery of love lies only as far as the acquisition of a new aura plants a seed of hope in the frustrated, forlorn gardens of female love.

Furthermore, the authors allow neither talking to a man first, nor initiating conversation of any form with said male, nor asking that man for a dance. A woman could “never make anything happen” anyway, say these authors, so loitering sheepishly (yet coyly and with an attitude) in the corner is the best bet. Here again, we have innocently initiated conversation with many a man while consequently writing ourselves out of their little black books for the transgression. Additionally, Fein and Schneider say that calling a man is a definite no-no, and they frown upon returning the calls of suitors, for such response will undoubtedly insinuate a possible interest on the part of the female and violate the standards of gender interaction set forth by these two women. Providing women suppress all self-assertion, previously deemed beneficial to a healthy lifestyle, that man could be snagged. “When you’re with a man you like, be quiet and mysterious, act ladylike, cross your legs and smile. Don’t talk too much.” The value of a personality is negligible in the dating game, these women say. We should halt all enjoyable conversation with the opposite sex and maintain a grin, even in the presence of undesirable company. But what really counts is donning the “black sheer pantyhose and hiking up your skirt.” Forget an intriguing personality, or even mannerly discourse; it’s all in the legs.

Finishing the article, I felt the clouds lift above my former dating naivete, and the light bulb of epiphany flicker on above my head; I realized exactly where the single female population has gone wrong: displaying ourselves as intelligent, communicative human beings. Men merely require a submissive tongue, an appreciable lack of personality and Jet Black Hanes Her Way from winners in the commitment round of the game show of love. “I am a woman; hear me roar” is passé. Providing the entertainment is all that counts.

Robert Briggs - Hail Professors

Picture it: you’re sitting in the middle of your lecture hall, surrounded by 499 other students who are all straining to hear the words of the teacher’s assistant at the front, who is, by the way, only two years older than some of the people in the class. Your professor has only been in class three times since he handed out the syllabus on the first day (which he never did go over), and each time you go by his office, his assistant tells you that he is out doing research.

Fortunately, this scenario is not a part of life at Davidson College. The only time you’re in a room with anywhere near 500 students is during your freshman orientation. There are no words of wisdom sent by professors via teaching assistants. And professors are almost always available to deal with your concerns. Each week I scan The Davidsonian articles and I see many opinions about what’s wrong...With Davidson and what should be changed, but I rarely see opinions that praise the many things the college does to benefit its students. One of the things that the college does is to provide for us professors who are actually here to teach students. They are not here simply to take advantage of research facilities that help them write their next journal article or publish their next book. Many students probably take for granted the many professors who spend eight to ten hours a week in their offices before and after their classes while students come in and out to talk about papers, presentations, reviews, and majors. They also spend a great deal of time talking to students about life in general: time management, roommate situations, gender relations. One of my favorite professors is one whom I’ve never had for a class, but who is still always willing to listen to me recount my successes and failures of the previous few weeks. Davidson College students are very lucky to have professors who take an interest in students’ lives inside and outside the classroom. They are always willing to share advice and resources, and they involve themselves in student events. It always feels good to know that my professors actually know my name and that I’m more than just number 323 out of 500.

Eric Sapp

Veterans are important

Ever since I came to Davidson, I have always found it strange that we never recognize national holidays. But I figured that this lack of recognition simply reflected Davidson’s “commitment to education” and our professors’ diehard insistence that it would be impossible for them to properly teach their subjects if any of their class time was taken away. To be honest, I felt that the first explanation was a valid one. So with the exception of showing up to a locked post office and realizing it was one of those holidays, I didn’t give the issue further thought. That is, I didn’t give it further thought until four weeks ago. If you have been following, Veteran’s Day is a day that was set aside to honor those men and women who have risked and often lost their lives defending our country. This is a day that was set aside to pay homage to those who jeopardized everything so that we might enjoy the lives and freedoms we currently enjoy. And this is a holiday that in its essence crosses all racial, social, gender, and religious bounds. It is a holiday that celebrates and thanks Americans for believing in what America stands for, period. There is no distinction between black, white, male, female, Jew, or Christian on Veteran’s Day. We thank the American soldier for fighting for freedom. There is something very much akin to what Dr. King preached in that.

By giving students a half day off for Martin Luther King Day only, Davidson has elevated it above the other national holidays. The reason is that our long-standing policy on national holidays has changed. Starting two years from now, afternoon classes will be canceled for Martin Luther King Day. In conjunction with this half-holiday, the school will sponsor an afternoon celebration (I believe this part is organized by COMA). Since classes are canceled, the idea is that students will be able to attend. I think this is a great idea. But it does pose some problems. By giving students a half day off for Martin Luther King Day only, Davidson has, in essence, elevated it above the other national holidays. I know that this was not the intent, but it is the result. From looking at the calendar, Labor Day, President’s Day, and Veteran’s Day are the other national holidays that occur during the school year. I will admit that I do not feel very strongly about Labor Day. And while I believe that some of the presidents of this country deserve to be placed at least on the same level with Dr. King, the holiday I am most concerned with is Veteran’s Day.

I see two possible solutions to this problem. One is that we decide that equality will be our banner and if one holiday is going to be recognized, all national holidays will be recognized. However, I believe that Martin Luther King Day and Veteran’s Day are different from Labor Day and President’s Day. The first set of holidays specifically remembers and honors people living today (blacks and the civil rights movement and veterans). The second set does not seem to do this. So the resolution I will propose to the SGA will be that Veteran’s Day alone be given treatment equal to Martin Luther King Day. This alleviates the problem of devaluing Veteran’s Day and balances the calendar by giving us one national holiday each semester. There is not much else to say. We owe our veterans an incredible debt. Without them, there is no telling what condition our country or our world would be in. It would be a shame if we felt that we were not able to make minor sacrifices in our schedule so that we might remember those who have sacrificed so much for us.

Write for Opinions. Call Kristen or Nina. -2148. Submit letters to the Editors and articles by Wednesday on Macintosh disks.