2 THE DAVIDSONIAN > BRIEFS

Students asked to move cars from Baker lot on home basketball game days

Game Management Director Lee Sargent spoke with the SGA Senate last week about the need for students parked in Baker Sports Complex. Many parking spaces nearest to the complex are reserved by ticket holders. In addition, those who arrive at the game without having reserved a parking space may purchase available spots for $2. According to SGA Minutes, parking on game days has been a problem in the past. Sargent said he will send a voicemail to every student, asking them to either remove their cars from the lot or to move their car to Baker lot's third parking bay, farthest from the building.

Kevin Smith named Building Services Committee Chair

Freshman Class Senator Kevin Smith's nomination for the position of Building Services Committee Chairman, submitted by SGA Vice President Clair Freeman, was approved by the Senate last Tuesday evening.

SGA Polling and Response Committee surveys student attitudes toward parking situation

Chaired by Sophomore Senator Jonathan Sipling, the SGA Polling and Response Committee conducted a random telephone survey to gauge student opinion on the campus parking situation. The fourteen-member committee contacted over 160 students and received the following responses:

Do you believe that the current parking registration fee of $80 per year is too high?
Yes: 86%
No: 14%

If yes, then what amount do you feel is adequate for parking registration?
Average Response: $42.84

Do you feel that there is an adequate amount of student parking spaces on campus?
Yes: 60%
No: 40%

Are you aware of the emergency phones stationed at Satellite and Baker parking lots that allow you to access them without getting out of your vehicle?
Yes: 41%
No: 59%

Do you feel that there is an adequate amount of lighting in Satellite and Baker parking lots?
Yes: 56%
No: 44%

Saturday's Tailgate Party a “huge success”

The post-football game tailgate party, sponsored by the SGA's freshmen and sophomore senators, was a “huge success,” says Ann Harriot Fisher, sophomore class president. The event featured “lots of food, lots of music, dancing and fun,” she says. Sophomores Dewy Ervin and Jay Urder provided live music. BSC provided use of their house for the event. Fisher estimates that between 200 and 250 students attended.

Consumer Protection Committee sign-ups will be held this week

Sign-ups for those interested in serving on the Consumer Protection Committee, chaired by junior Lucian Dervan and sophomore Toh Hean Ch'ng, will be held this week, Monday through Friday, in Chambers. The Committee, created just weeks ago, will investigate student satisfaction with services provided by companies contracted by Davidson College. The committee is charged with producing a biannual report on the status of business services at Davidson. The report will be distributed to College administrators.

NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1996

From the archives ...

Casting a vote for Bill Clinton or Bob Dole this year may have been a classic case of choosing the lesser of two evils, but ambivalence about presidential elections is nothing new to Davidson. In the November 5, 1976 issue of the Davidsonian, students and faculty alike expressed similar displeasure.At their options in both the presidential and congressional races, Executive Editor Dave Keller quoted one professor as saying, “I’m almost more comfortable telling you why I’m not voting for Ford than why I am voting for Carter.”

Other 1976 headlines:
- Campus CROP program holds fast for hungry
- Swine flu shots available soon
- SGA sponsors program for dormitory visitation
- Admissions organizes plan for student recruiters
- Dead tree limbs threaten woodpeckers’ habitats
- Stan “Half-pint” Hales leads PDT 3 in tromp over SPEs
- Wildcat Club supports every sport
- Project Life hopes to register 400

By JENNIFER STARR
Staff Writer

Project Life’s seventh annual bone marrow typing drive will be held November 19 and 20 from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the Union. This year, Project Life’s goal is to have 400 people typed and have their names added to the National Bone Marrow Registry.

Project Life Co-chairman Sallie Permar feels the drive is important. She says, “Only 20-25% of people in need of bone marrow find a match within their family. Once they have to go outside their family, the odds are 1 in 20,000 of a person being a match. The more names we can add to the National Bone Marrow Registry, the better the odds of a person being able to find a match.”

Permar also feels that Project Life has been very successful in this mission. “Project Life has had seven people typed who have become donors. That’s a really amazing number for such a small school in such a short amount of time,” she says.

According to Permar, typing is fairly quick and easy. The procedure involves taking only about 2 tablespoons of blood, so fainting is not an issue. The entire process takes about 15 minutes. Being typed does not obligate anyone to donate bone marrow. After being typed once, a potential donor will be on the National Registry until age 65 and will never need to be typed again.

In addition to the chance to make a difference, Project Life is offering another incentive for freshmen to get typed. Each freshman hall with 100% participation will be entered in a drawing for a VCR. Typing blood costs $60 per person; Project Life receives matching funds from the Red Cross to meet half this cost but no funding from Davidson College. Project Life plans to raise $1,500 for this year’s drive. The group has raised $1,200 through various projects this semester.

According to Permar, the group’s most successful fundraiser was writing letters to personal acquaintances asking them for donations. Other fundraisers included a spaghetti dinner on First Night Down, a raffle over Parents’ Weekend, and a t-shirt sale. Project Life is currently having a donut sale.

The Duchess Nail, Hair & Tanning Salon
Full service salon for women & men
892-7030
"Best Prices in Town"

Nails
- Manicures
- Pedicures in European spa pedicure chair
- Acrylic
- Gels
- Tips
- Fiberglass

Tanning
- "Hottest Bulbs in Town"
- $4.00 per session
- $33.00 for 10 sessions
- $43.00 for 15 sessions
- $50.00 for 20 sessions

Treat yourself... you deserve it
Ask for Connie, Michelle, or Susan
RedKen Hair Products & more...
Located 1/2 mile south of Davidson College Campus
20700 N. Main St.

Enlighten others, and yourself. Get involved with The Davidsonian. Call any of us, -2148