ELSEWHERE 6 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1996

The Elections '96 Beyond Davidson

When surveyed about the Elsewhere page, most students respond, “What is the Elsewhere page?” This attitude reflects the lack of
political activity and worldly awareness at Davidson. In this season of the crunch, time flies here. We lose ourselves in
the academic and the social while forgetting that something very important is about to happen — the Presidential elections. It
may seem far away, but in fact, we only have 37 days. Many have decided that undecided is the way
to go. It may seem easiest to dismiss all of the candidates, complain about our workloads, and blame the media
for unfair race coverage, but information — mediated and unmediated — is easily found. By skimming a wide variety of
newspapers or surfing the World Wide Web, one can find more than enough information to get a basic idea of
the ideas and issues, comings and goings of the presidential candidates. The Davidsonian will try and do some of this
for you. In the few weeks left before the elections, political science faculty and students will discuss current issues on
this page.

International...

After an armed clash between Palestinian security forces and Israeli troops, at least fifty Palestinians lay dead and over 300
Palestinians and Israelis were injured. The entire West Bank was rocked by Wednesday’s violence, the worst conflict since Israeli-Palestinian peace
talks began three years ago.

Russian president Boris Yeltsin decided Wednesday to undergo coronary bypass surgery in six to eight weeks. Yeltsin was inaugurated on
August 9 at age 65. He also suffered a recent blood clot and a low red blood cell count.

For three years, the intellectual battle between Egyptians who want to make Islamic law the law of the land and
others who fear that imposing Islamic law over the nation will threaten freedom of secular thought has raged. Last week,
an Egyptian court blocked a lower court’s ruling which ordered a Muslim man to divorce his wife because he published
writings critical of Islam. Both Nasr Abu Zeid and his wife have been fighting the ruling.

Candidates:
- Bill Clinton, Democrat
- Al Gore, VP Candidate
- Bob Dole, Republican
- Jack Kemp, VP Candidate
- Ross Perot, Reform Party
- Pat Choate, VP Candidate
- John Hagelin, Natural Law
- Ralph Nader, Green Party
- Harry Browne, Libertarian

Bill Clinton:
- Doesn't support a balanced budget amendment.
- Says he will balance the budget by 2002 without making major cuts in Social Security or Medicare.

Bob Dole:
- Will cut federal taxes by 15%.
- Also supports a balanced budget amendment and says he will balance the budget by 2002.

Ross Perot:
- Favors a balanced budget amendment but says that big government programs must suffer significant cuts in order to balance
the budget.

John Hagelin:
- A physicist, he intends to apply the laws of natural science to the political world.
- Also proposes using meditation to cure society's stress.

Ralph Nader:
- Refuses campaign contributions and has no expectations of becoming president.
- Hopes to "build a progressive movement."
- Major issues include campaign reform and corporate power over American politics.

Harry Browne:
- Will eliminate the federal income tax and cut federal spending in half to balance the budget.
- Will eliminate welfare and Social Security.

Debate schedule:
- Sunday, Oct 6, 9:00 p.m. Presidential debate, Hartford, Conn.
- Wednesday, Oct. 9, 9:00 p.m. Vice-Presidential debate, St. Petersburg, Fla.
- Wednesday, Oct. 16, 9:00 p.m. Presidential debate, San Diego, Cal.

ELECTION DAY — NOV. 5

Last week:
Clinton:
- Addressed the United Nations in New York and visited New Jersey on Tuesday.
- Stumped for congressional candidates in three cities in Texas on Friday.
- Proposed a new type of savings bond and prepared for the first debate.

Dole:
- Spoke with voters in northern Virginia on Monday, then visited midwestern cities Detroit, Mansfield OH, and St. Louis on
Friday.
- Prepared for debate.

Perot:
- Campaigned in various states and prepared for the upcoming debates.his wife have said they do not want to divorce.

National ... The FBI charged Robert Chaegon Kim, an employee of the Office of Naval Intelligence, with giving classified documents
to a South Korean navy officer. Officials say Kim passed over 50 documents to Baek Dong-il over the past five
months. A hidden camera caught Kim printing classified records from his office computer and then sending them to Baek, who
works in the South Korean Embassy in Washington.

The House of Representatives passed two bills on Wednesday designed to cut illegal immigration into the U.S. The first bill
deals with law enforcement and includes provisions for massive increases in Border Patrol Officers. The second and more controversial bill
allows states to deny public education to illegal immigrant children.

Local ... Evangelist Billy Graham, now a 72-year-old preacher, embarked on a crusade through the Carolinas late last week. His
first stop was Charlotte’s Ericsson Stadium on Thursday evening. Louis on Tuesday, and then traveled to Cedar Rapids, IA on
Wednesday. Spoke with seniors in Florida on Thursday and filed suit when he was not included in the debate schedule.

Earn and Learn Opportunity! Huntersville company looking for student to work 25 hours a week performing miscellaneous administrative tasks. Great
chance to get some business experience. Must be organized, have PC skills and some type of customer service experience. For
consideration, stop by and complete an application or send a resume to the following address (no calls please):

HR Manager - BU
Soft Play, LLC
12100 Vance Davis Drive
Charlotte, NC 28269

Sources: New York Times

SOURCES: (check these out!)
http://www.cnn.com
http://www.nytimes.com
http://campaign.96.com

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1. Healthy
5. Fiery signal
10. Brass instrument
14. Melody
15. Shoestrings
16. Outer garment
17. Barbershop item
18. Make suitable
19. Eye
20. Caught sight of
22. Stands for canvases
24. Phooey!
25. A Muse
26. Electrical unit
29. Rich source
33. Fly high
34. Boldness
36. Arab VIP
37. Mink, e.g.
38. Bakery item
39. Sch. gp.
40. Bone: pref.
42. Where soldiers are stationed
44. That girl's
45. Limit
47. Grand — Dam
49. Engrave
50. School period
51. Find (with “out")
54. Sprees
57. Paton or Milne
58. WWII vessel
60. Weather outlook
62. Ship of 1492
63. Wash lightly
64. “Do — others...”
65. Schooner part
66. Ceased
67. Distort

DOWN
1. Woman in uniform, once
2. Desire personified
3. Walk with difficulty
4. Toiler
5. Squash
6. Fills with cargo
7. School: abbr.
8. Agent: abbr.
9. Actress Parsons
12. Fancy dance
13. Chimpanzees
21. Sailor
23. Help
25. Desire greedily
26. With regard to
27. Mickey or Minnie
28. Components
29. Grain for grinding
30. Urge on
31. Saltpeter
32. Remove in a way
35. Geologic period
41. Never-ending
42. Photo
43. Perfumed
44. Bone of the upper arm
46. Abbr. on a map
48. Law: abbr.
50. Tantalize
51. Devotees
52. Mr. Kazan
53. Indian queen
54. He's 007
55. Give a rating to
56. Scene
59. Receptacle for storage
61. The present

ANSWERS
3/~/sMMolalalniaMalilvis
O|LINiaM@alsinit|umvini
tin tiviufislvio'ainiini(y[
tiv SiulalainialaMalalululals
OE Mere 3/3/1j No} MBL]
9) tiwlaisiale S|u/3)/H—S|1)S/O|d
MM ajsisio vitid a}ij¢ ulnis
NO BOO OOOS ainitiwialil(o/o
fi alulalainiv oll oR slilvie
S'vjalsiviaMalalilsjojd|s
2 10/0MM 1] d|vialv—
ainjolo dlviu[mis/3/olvi
amv) uly, MOD ECG) GiReNL)
52 Mr. Kazan
53 Indian queen
54 He's 007
55 Give a rating to
56 Scene
59 Receptacle for storage
61 The present
