LUX. UB I OR Tx LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1996

VOLUME 88, NUMBER 5

SGA watchdog committee to inspect “monopolies” on campus

By ANN HATFIELD
Staff Writer

Junior Class President Lucian Dervan plans to introduce an SGA bylaws change that will result in the formation of a Consumer Protection Committee (CPC) for students. This committee will seek to explore the businesses used on campus and determine whether students receive the most for their money.

Students have complained that telephone, refrigerator, and microwave fees are too high and that service is not good.

Dervan says that though many questions are already under the jurisdiction of Student Advisory Committees (SACs), he hopes to one day consider prices at Vail Commons and the College Bookstore.

Dervan says that the duties of the committee will be primarily research, analysis, and making reports to the Dean of Students, the Office of the President, and the business in question.

He charges the committee to “examine those businesses which hold monopolies on campus, and act as a means by which to report student and committee recommendations on a bi-annual basis.”

He adds, “The first reports should come out at the end of the school year and every two years thereafter. I hope that this will be a means by which students will be able to report any complaints about businesses and have a more powerful voice when it comes to monopolies on campus.”

Student viewpoints: many say companies like BTI shouldn’t ‘pass GO’

If you're like most students, you’ve probably resigned yourself to the use of companies like BTI and University Programs, whether or not you like their service, simply because they’re the businesses sanctioned by the College. But many students feel they shouldn’t be held hostage to corporate decisions they had no part in making, particularly when they’re not satisfied with the offerings of College-approved companies catering to students.

Freshman Debbi Berry holds nothing back when asked about Erie, PA-based University Programs, which rents appliances such as refrigerators and microwaves to students nationwide: “I’m really fed up.”

See Students on page 4

THE COURT IS NOW IN SESSION

Faces in the Crowd: Seniors Jason Carlock and Katie Meisky stare into the spotlight during First Night Down activities. Ben DeLisa

Haselden elected freshmen class president; Hobbie elected head independent senator

By ANN CUTP & ELIZABETH BLACKBURN
Staff Writers

Freshmen and independent senators are ready to leave their mark.

Foster Haselden was elected president of the freshman class with the most votes. Julie Chevalier, Whitney Frazier, Margaret Hoover, Joslyn Ogden, and Kevin Smith were all elected freshman senators. Ideas for the coming year range from Plant A Flower Day for Earth Day, creating a shuttle system to Charlotte, to making assorted projects more centralized.

The top vote-getter among all independent senators, junior Matthew Hobbie, will assume the role of head independent senator. Hobbie’s decision to run for a position on the SGA was in part a reaction to decisions made by the Student Government in the past and a desire to change things by becoming a part of the Student Government himself.

Also elected as independent senators were junior Sandy Neblett and sophomores Bob Lonergan, Kirsten Recknagel, Kurt Fesenmyer, and Chris Tuttle.

The independent senators’ current project concerns an independent Homecoming Dance.

“I would like the dance to be a place that the students can go just to hang out without any pressure. It is especially important for the freshmen to know that there is a place on the Court that they are welcome to come since they are new to Patterson Court,” says Hobbie.

Sophomore John Bell, Chair of the Student Government Association’s Election Council, says roughly 75% of first-year students voted in the first election which included 24 candidates. Approximately 71% voted in the 13-candidate run-off.

“To have that narrow of a gap is fantastic,” says Bell.

Haselden says, “The class ran a tough campaign. We were very competitive, but we all got along.”

Town of Davidson to charge for Main Street parking

By DOUG PENHALLEGON
Staff Writer

The enormous growth of the Davidson area has forced town administrators to enact a new parking policy for Main Street.

Beginning September 30, only merchants with special permits will be allowed to park in the majority of spaces between Concord and Depot streets.

The new law will be enforced only between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. on weekdays.

On the college side of Main Street, the boundaries will be from the intersection of Concord and Main north toward Griffith Street.

On the storefront side, permits will be required only for spaces between Depot and Griffith streets.

The two-hour limit will remain in effect on the storefront side between Concord and Depot, but will be eradicated for all permit spaces.

“Basically, it’s going to take spaces away from the students,” says Butch Parker, Assistant Police Chief for the town of Davidson. The merchants want students to park on campus, and claim they are losing business because of the current strain.

Despite new lots built behind the VAC, post office, First Union, and Cairn’s Wood Crafts, merchants still complain they have no place to park. They plan for their customers to park in the 2-hour zone between Concord and Depot.

The two-hour limit was enacted three years ago to cope with the “tug of war between students and merchants,” says Parker, “I’ve been here for ten years, and it’s been a mess ever since I got here.”

Football defeated.

SPORTS 16

How to be a Davidson man.
OPINIONS 8

James Swisher, 1949 — 1996
NEWS 7

NEWS 7
OPINIONS 8
WEIS 10
HOROSCOPE 15
SPORTS 16

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036