OPINIONS | THE DAVIDSONIAN APRIL 1, 1996

FACULTY VOICE

Bo Bartholomew

Scott Denham
Assistant Professor of German

On Reading

In a course I taught last semester, on Franz Kafka and the modern novel, I saw something that I had learned before about reading, that I had hoped was still true, and that I now hold up as an ideal and a model for reading with students, with you. We read, of course, some appropriately challenging number of pages — all of Kafka’s novels, six other important modern novels, Kafka’s diaries and letters, and a few dozen of Kafka’s stories. From all these works one single Kafka story occupied our minds more than anything else, whether we knew it or not: “Before the Law,” a cryptic little tale of a page and a half in which a petitioner appeals to a gatekeeper for entrance into the law, yet ultimately is denied entrance after years of waiting. He dies unfulfilled, his questions unanswered, or answered inadequately. The story, though, shows that the petitioner was asking the wrong questions, perhaps, about when and how and where he could get his hearing. Better questions, we can imagine, would have had to do with the basics: what is the law anyway, why am I here, who are you, gatekeeper, to say that I can’t go in and seek justice?

These questions and others like them kept recurring in our course throughout the semester, and every time one of these existential questions arose, echoes of “Before the Law” could be heard. Students would return to the story in class or at the café or in a journal entry and find something in the text that we hadn’t seen or hadn’t addressed before. The lesson for me was this: close reading pays off. Reading again and again yields ever more useful and informed and relevant meanings. Texts, literary texts especially, but all texts really, are an inexhaustible source of meanings, ideas, questions, even — dare we whisper this in our post-Enlightenment age of relativism — moral imperatives. Reading closely and well destabilizes our assumptions, presents us with decisions to make about the book in our hands; we don’t just get the meaning, but instead have to choose between various possible meanings. Reading closely gives us power but also responsibility. Having exposed a text’s necessarily inconclusive nature, we must then act on the possibilities it has presented to us.

As a scholar I am interested in looking very closely at literature, or for that matter, at any sort of aesthetic or cultural production, be it a film, poem, painting, symphony, novel, even a building. All these “texts” can be “read” closely and should be. Non-artistic or non-aesthetic texts can also prove especially compelling when put under the lens of a close reader: legal discourse, medical case histories, the language of politics, history writing, journalism, advertising all offer more than a single, simple meaning to be consumed and mastered. I can look at how a text is structured, how it came to be, how it was received and understood or misunderstood by its readers and viewers and listeners, what other readers said and wrote about it, how other artists incorporated it into new aesthetic works — there are millions of things to know, millions of questions to ask, all complex, all demanding, all ultimately rewarding, intellectually and morally. This sort of project — what I do as a literary and cultural historian — is a challenge for sure, but not nearly so daunting as what my charge is as a teacher.

As a teacher I naturally try to pass on skills and expertise to my students: I try to teach my students to communicate, in English or German; to write more clearly and directly; to speak with confidence and thoughtfully; in short, I am a kind of language coach. Beyond this I can do no more than present two basic things to my students: first, I can show them how to read well, and second I can argue that reading well is a social, yes, moral duty. Then I have no control. Whether they — you — read or not is their — your — decision; whether you read well or not is also up to you. Whether you act on what you read is something I’ll probably never know.

What is reading well? Reading well is, as I saw again in my Kafka and modern novel course last semester, first of all, I think, reading for pleasure. Critic Roland Barthes talked of the “pleasure of the text” and introduced — I think accurately — erotic metaphor to describe the way a book seduces us, leads us on, delays our gratification and finally leaves us with a sweet, though confused memory of a passionate encounter. Reading well is reading with passion. But reading well has another, opposite side which is also reading critically, reading with questions, reading skeptically, reading with control. Bertolt Brecht called this stance that of the cigar-smoking viewer, someone who would have the distance from the action on stage to smoke dispassionately while the play goes on, someone reserved, objective, arms crossed and gaze askance while sitting in there, not identifying, but instead judging and weighing the text.

We know now, because of a renewed interest in rhetoric demonstrated by recent advances in critical theory, narratology, myth studies, deconstruction, and in related fields, that most books are not nearly so tightly bound together as we once assumed. Good readers can see and understand how a narrator prejudices the reader toward the position of one character or another, they can find an author’s language to be sending messages somehow in conflict with itself, and can accept the legitimacy of differing interpretations coexisting mutually. Good readers see that texts participate in a dialogue with their own histories and political contexts and readers carry that dialogue into the present. In asking what a text means, answers like “Huck Finn = X,” “Macbeth = Y,” and “Faust = Z” are far too simple, far too basic, and unfortunately far too common. Reading well entails recognizing the many meanings inherent in any product of culture; reading well, then, means reading for good questions, not for good answers. A book may well provide answers which have value for us as moral beings, but unless we as readers know what the questions are, and can ask them ourselves, these answers are useless, for we cannot judge them.

In practical terms this means, for me, demanding responsibility from my co-readers, and giving them responsibility in turn. It means I try to set up the logistics of a course in such a way that my co-readers are forced to present their readings — their questions — to the group on a regular basis, inHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

A relatively non-threatening atmosphere. It means that I take their readings seriously if they are sincere and well-grounded, and that I help them ground their readings well if they are not. (Insincere readings get bad grades.) And perhaps most importantly, it means that I and my co-readers write, write lots, and write for each other, not just for me. Before we even begin to talk about any text in class, everyone will have written on it. Writing well and reading well go hand in hand. As a teacher and scholar here I can do nothing more than what I love to do anyway. Try to read well with my students. Then hope for the best.

Student Support. Students Affairs would like to thank students and faculty for their show of interest and support. We hope that faculty will take into consideration these statements, as well as the desires of students and their fellow faculty members during the vote on April 2nd.

Sincerely,
The Council on Academic Affairs

We need your help

Dear Davidson College Faculty,

I am a senior and have had many experiences at Davidson that I will never forget. I love this school and almost everything about it. As a tour guide, I sold Davidson as a little piece of heaven, and I truly believe that. Having been here for four years, I have seen a few things that I would like to ask your help with. Being an athlete and being involved in ROTC and other organizations, I have been marked as a student that may not be totally dedicated to his studies or classes. Being involved in these activities and others is not uncommon for the Davidson College student. I will admit my favorite thing is not reading history for hours at a time or researching topics until I can’t think straight, but I have learned how to do these things and have learned the value of these things.

What I want to propose to you based on a large list of examples is that you help us not only to be great students, but to be well-rounded people. I did not come here to be a great student. I came to Davidson to be the best well-rounded gentleman, scholar, and athlete that I could be. The Admissions office sells Davidson as a place that helps develop the whole person. If I was the only one who felt that the faculty does a great job promoting the scholar aspect of the whole person, but does not promote the other aspects very much, I would not write this letter.

Just recently, I had an athlete come to me with Southern Conference Championship hopes, but no way to take a test early because the professor wanted it to be taken at one of two specific times, both of which conflict with the practices or the games. I know this student athlete. This person is devoted to getting the best education available and does not want to challenge a professor at all, but this student is also devoted to athletics. Two years ago, when I was on the Student Government, a foreign student came to me very distraught. A professor would not grade his paper because of its topic. He wrote a satire on women in the weight room because where he comes from that does not exist. The professor refused even to read the paper and assigned him a new topic one day before the paper was due. The professor could have taken the student’s background into account, and read the paper before judging it unsuitable.

These are two isolated events that hopefully will be worked out, but I have been made aware of many more examples. I do not believe this is the Davidson that I believe in and tell people about. The type of person Davidson brings into your classes is one that is dedicated to getting their work done and to working hard. There may be some exceptions, but I truly believe that if a student misses a class or fails to get something done it is not because they just don’t care, but because they are having difficulties being the well-rounded, whole person they came here to be.

In summary, I am making a request on behalf of the students: “We need your help.” Don’t make your courses easy or cater to our desires, but please support our efforts. The athletes that devote hours to practice need you at the games to support them. The actors that prepare their lines in the late hours of the night need you there to applaud their performances. The artists and performers of all different fields need your assistance in balancing their time between their studies and their personal endeavors of achievement. The musicians gain confidence when a professor supports their recitals or concerts. We are a family because of the small size of our community. I guarantee you will see better results with those students that you support outside of the classroom. Ask the students themselves and look at those professors who are known for their outside-classroom efforts. Please help us to become, as the Army would say, “All that we can be.”

Thanks.

This basketball season will forever be fondly etched into our memories. All of you, students, faculty, and staff, gave us a purpose. You were a consistent voice of inspiration. We felt your embrace. Thanks for not only caring, but also for showing that you care.

Sincerely,
Men’s Basketball Players and Coaches

Submit your articles by Thursday at noon. 300 words or less — please!