2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1996

NEWS BRIEFS

Recycling summit to give direction to campus efforts

The recycling effort at Davidson has “definitely been growing” in recent years, says Helen Robinson, Reach Out Coordinator for Recycling. For this reason, Robinson and others recognize that on-campus recycling needs to be given a definitive direction. Reach Out’s recycling committee is planning to hold a recycling summit in the near future, to which members of the administration, Physical Plant, Residence Life Office, and students will be invited. Robinson says she hopes that the summit will result in an “efficient recycling plan for the whole campus.”

Mathews a free man

The arresting officer in the case against sophomore John Mathews did not show up at the trial, allowing Mathews to be set free of all charges. Mathews had been charged with disorderly conduct around a bonfire. No explanation of the police officer’s absence has been offered by the Campus Police, but a happy and relieved Mathews says that it is a symbol of the “innocence that he has maintained throughout the whole ordeal.”

Libertas receives SGA charter

The SGA Charters and Bylaws committee granted Libertas an official charter last week. A charter gives an organization permission to apply for funds from the Activities Tax Council, apply for an office in the College Union, and deposit funds in a college account. The Media Board still must approve the magazine.

Davidsonian has award-winning web site

The Davidsonian was recently awarded one of the “Top 100 Web Sites on the Planet” by 2Ask, an Internet group which evaluates thousands of home pages each month. The Davidsonian's Homepage will be featured as a “Top 100” site for the month of February and posted on the 2Ask list effective March 1, 1996. After months of programming and working out many problems, The Davidsonian is now accessible on the Internet. The Davidsonian’s homepage is located at: http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

The homepage is available to students on campus through the Davidson College homepage using Netscape. To locate the page, either type the http address above or choose “student life” on the Davidson College homepage and scroll down under Student Activities and choose The Davidsonian. The homepage is updated weekly and offers many of the same articles that are found in the print edition of The Davidsonian. It also offers the opportunity to respond to articles by writing email to the individual author of any article. Eventually, pictures from each week’s Davidsonian will also be scanned in so that they can be viewed on the computer. In addition, the page is home to information about the staff of The Davidsonian, individual homepages of writers and editors, and past issues. Registering almost 200 visits a month from off-campus computers, The Davidsonian’s homepage is able to offer information about Davidson College to alumni, students traveling abroad, prospective students, and other web surfers. Recently, the address, or Uniform Resource Locator, of the homepage was registered with Yahoo and WebCrawler, two popular Internet browsing programs. With the addition to these services, The Davidsonian page will be easier than ever to locate on the Internet. Send questions or comments about The Davidsonian’s homepage to brchase@davidson.edu.

— Compiled by Kirsten Recknagel

Habitat officially kicks off

“It’s a chance to do something real with your life.”

By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL Assistant News Editor

Students, faculty, and community members gathered Saturday at the future site of the first Habitat For Humanity house to be sponsored by Davidson College. The occasion was the site’s Groundbreaking Ceremony, which marked tremendous progress made by volunteers in preparing the overgrown lot for construction. Mr. and Mrs. Jetton simultaneously thrust their shovels into the earth on which the Habitat house will soon stand. Kinnaman, who has served in a variety of capacities on numerous Habitat For Humanity projects, says he was pleased with the number of people who turned out for the ceremony. “It was wonderful to see the whole community and not just Davidson students come together,” said Kinnaman, who spent Saturday afternoon working on the lot. “I’d never heard of Habitat until I heard about this project,” adds freshman Shannon Howland, “It’s a chance...to do something real with your life.” At its conclusion, students, faculty, and community members who had attended the Groundbreaking Ceremony moved down the street to the Ada Jenkins Center for a barbecue lunch. With the words, “Let’s break ground!” Kinnaman, Kuykendall, We want to hear what you have to say. Write us an email to “Davidsonian.” If you are not on campus, then write us at “Davidsonian@Davidson.edu.”

The ceremony, which began at noon and lasted approximately 15 minutes, featured a few words from several individuals closely involved with the house’s construction. Cooper Dean, Co-Chairman of the Special Events Committee, spoke, after which Laurie Greif, Family Liaison, introduced the Jettons, the family for whom the house is being built. Mr. and Mrs. Jetton each spoke briefly, and were followed by Davidson College President John Kuykendall. Finally, Ben Kinnaman, Construction Director for the project, initiated the ceremony’s symbolic groundbreaking.

Students and volunteers clear trees to prepare for the groundbreaking.

TRUSTEE MEETINGS

As of 1995, students were to sit on trustee committees. Each of these students serves as a representative for the student body on the individual committee that they attended during Trustee Weekend.

Institutional Advancement: Will Cowan
The priorities for the Institutional Advancement Committee are fundraising and the annual fund. As of right now, three specific priorities are to increase scholarship money, encourage the annual fund, and work on the life sciences building project. The new campus union project is on hold as of now because the other projects are so important. There was also talk of Davidson presidential candidates, and if they will approach fundraising with the same vigor as President Kuykendall has. They hope that the annual fund will continue to flourish like the Campaign for Davidson did in the last 10 years.

Athletic Policy: Warren Buford
Associate Director of Athletics Sterling Martin introduced new Athletic Director Jim Murphy to the committee and reported statistics from recent games. The committee also discussed the Davidson Athletic Fund, which will attempt to raise money for Davidson athletics after the budget was cut by $100,000 this year. The committee also talked about the major need for a new track.

Buildings and Grounds: Katherine Hash
The committee is planning to build a new dorm by fall 1997, as there have been problems getting everyone housed. Another priority is a fiber optics system that will give Davidson a “total communications network.” The committee is also discussing how to most effectively deal with maintenance problems, because, at this point, by the year 2015 Davidson will have about 25 million dollars in backlogged maintenance. The reason that expenses have been stretched is that newer buildings like Baker and the VAC have higher operating costs.

Council for Campus and Religious Life: Bill Gullan
Associate Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano reported on international students at Davidson, while Dean of Students Tom Shandley reported on a study done by representatives of other colleges about drinking at Davidson. Gullan also distributed a copy of the SGA drunk driving report, the final report of the SGA Ad Hoc Committee on drunk driving, and urged the trustees to read it.

Admission and Financial Aid: Missy Graves
Dean of Admissions Nancy Cable gave a report on the current application statistics: although applications are down this year, she also noted that there are fewer 17 and 18-year-olds in the country. SAT scores and class rankings remain at high levels, and African American applications have increased. The committee is focusing on the yield right now—the number of people who are accepted that come to Davidson. Usually around 47% of those accepted come, but last year 39% came, and the waitlist was used more extensively than normal. The committee is trying to decide if students are choosing other “name” schools or schools with better financial aid. They also discussed the financial aid situation; with the recently instituted 13.5% cap, they are trying to raise money for additional funds. They hope to earmark funds for certain scholarships and target specific students, this way donors will see where their money is going.