OPINIONS MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1996

Barbarians at the Gate

You know, the phenomenon known as life is, for lack of a better word, interesting. Just when you think that
you have found the unsolvable solution to Fermat’s “life” equation, an aberration of sorts emerges and totally messes up the
program which you thought consistent with the status quo and the way things operate in society. Sadly, you come to
the realization that there is nothing wrong with you per se. Larger society just operates on a different set of
rules and values, which call for a person to compromise, assimilate, and adapt or die.

It’s funny. Really, it is. I’m part of an intellectual community that values reason and open-mindedness above everything else. That’s
what I like about Davidson. Then again, I have the extreme pleasure of listening to beer bottles being broken in
my hall on weekends, observing unsung throngs of people lecturing others on the finer points of “getting blitzed,” and viewing
the paths of wanton destruction these scions leave in their wake. But such is life.

In a world which views many black men (such as myself) as feral beasts whose sole function in life is
to rape, pillage, plunder, and destroy the institutions of a majority population who fear and misunderstand us, such revelry, celebration,
and destruction is the accepted norm, and anything to the contrary is thought of as uncivilized. So in order to
protect the weak and innocent, I must stifle the supposed “true nature of the beast” within me and live with
the stigma that something is wrong with me while everyone else is normal. However, I will not be tricked, bamboozled,
or misled into thinking this is the case.

I beg to differ. Breaking bottles in the halls is not kosher. Destroying property, peace, and tranquility are not the
actions that define an intellectual elite. I know everyone on this campus does not indulge in such behavior, and I
have no problems with people who drink on the whole. I do have a problem with people who take this
social way of life to the extreme.

I, for one, can’t be blind to the reckless state of affairs surrounding me. As students of this institution, we
cannot afford to be oblivious of such things. Aldous Huxley noted in his novel Brave New World Revisited, “those who
are alert to the dangers of tyranny, are often asleep to the dangers of distraction and hedonism.” It is so
easy for many of us to turn our heads and dismiss these actions as trivial pursuits. Yet, I can clearly
hear the refrain for the justification of such actions: “We just wanna have fun. You know. When in Rome ...”

However, I wonder if the Romans realized it was the end of society as they knew it when the Visigoths
came charging towards their city hundreds of years ago. There they stood, at the threshold of the destruction of an
empire. The barbarians were at the gate. Of course, such a scenario could not happen at Davidson. Right? We have
no barbarians banging at our doorstep. Right? Wrong. Maybe it is the case since the barbarians are already within our
midst. How else can one explain the delinquency that occurs when alcohol is involved?

Can such drunken despotism and destruction be allowed within this honor-bound center of law and order? I think not. One
must not allow this extreme sect of our population to impose their rancid ways upon those who have common sense
and dislike chaos. Even though these destructive forces are among us, they are not a reflection or image of many
students who come to this college for an education. The way I see it, we may not be able to
solve this problem. However, come hell or high water, we can do what we can to limit it. All it
takes is for someone to make a stand.

Naresh Nagella

Presidential Debate?

Well, this week will signal the end or climax of one of the bigger campus debates this year. The trustees
are going to decide whether the “religious qualifications” for some important college posts should be rescinded or kept intact. The
trustees and professors, it seems we have decided, can be other than Christian, or at least other than Presbyterian. The
controversial post looks to be about the new president. Does he or she have to be Presbyterian?

Now, there are passionate supporters on either side of the issue. The SGA was severely split over the whole thing.
It could be trouble. It could be controversy. It could divide the campus. I hope it does not get solved.
It probably won’t be too damaging if the trustees decide to maintain the requirement. I mean, let’s not let just
our four classes have all the good issues, right? Future generations of Davidson students should explore this issue. Spread the
intellectual growth, I say.

But, we cannot do this by simply staying silent on this issue. People who think the requirement should be taken
out must keep pressing their cause. I mean, the repealers do have a point. Why restrict ourselves and our $25,000
tuition to only Presbyterian candidates for president? Shouldn’t we demand and receive the best person for our money? What if
an excellent Baptist, Jew, or Buddhist was out there who knew much about running a college, had great social skills,
served his or her community excellently, and had a knack for making alumni fill out large checks regularly? Wouldn’t we
want that person to guide us? Why would we want to limit ourselves?

Also, it looks bad. I mean, how do you...go about requesting ‘special character’ applicant for this job? Does the ad
read, “Wanted: President for national liberal arts college. Presbyterians need only apply”? Liberals have been complaining equal employment does not
exist at the top. That ad looks more like an iron shield than a glass ceiling. Well, that’s what the
opposition says. The standpatters want to keep the requirement. They worry the Presbyterian connection of the college will be lost.
They rightly worry about the loss of possible money and support the church gives us. They worry the school will
lose ties with its history and roots. They worry Davidson will lose its identity. All are very good arguments. Some
of the repealers, though, question what exactly a Presbyterian influence is. How many people on the campus even know who
John Calvin is? One might wonder: Would he condone a Patterson Court reveler? A Habitat Home builder? Or both? “Some
big Presbyterian influence!” they say.

So, what are we going to do? Well, let’s just keep this debate going. Let’s not decide on this for
a while. I mean, I like the church’s influence on this college. It demands we find excellent, caring professors. It
brings us scholars like Frederick Buechner to campus. It tries to keep the school’s goals on service to community and
strong scholarship. I even like the plainness it might cause; the buildings on campus seem to suggest that the only
thing you should pay attention to is the subject at hand — be it a friend, Cornel West, Rusted Root,
a professor, or a book. And, still, everyone agrees we have a beautiful campus. Cherish the learning, right? I believe
the Presbyterian church’s influence can be seen in this way. I am glad it had such an effect.

But, the repealers would respond. They would say that we could never lose the church’s influence since it is already
so ingrained. And, DCPC is not going anywhere. They would say having the requirement would actually make the church’s influence
seem too materialistic since we would have to keep it in writing to believe. Let’s nurture the church’s ideals as
universal and common. Let’s suggest everyone should try to strive in scholarship and service because that would be good for
anyone, not just Presbyterians.

Finally, the standpatters would say that keeping the president Presbyterian has not hurt the college so far. Plus, we agree
the trustee requirement should change. So, will it really hurt to keep the president Presbyterian?

So, there you have it. The debate questions and explores religion, politics, and morals. The point is that it is
very difficult to come to a conclusion on this topic. You can have my gut reaction to it. Or, you
can explore it among intellectual and complex theological lines. It’s for one and all. You can find my middle ground
(or wishy-washiness as my Presbyterian roommate tells me — Jesus said, "You should be hot or cold, not lukewarm," he
adds) or you can be resolute in it. Wherever or whatever your opinion, it is okay. At least everyone agrees
a Hindu student can act as a trustee to their alma mater and that it is okay for a Muslim
to teach about Islam. The presidential position does not enter so absolute an area. So, talk and debate on, I
say. But, let’s do something about that ad anyway. Maybe “People of the Presbyterian Persuasion a Big Plus.” It has
alliteration and political correctness. See, this stuff is going to be fun!

John Rogers

Court members should accept changes

For four years, I have enjoyed mixing and mingling on Patterson Court, and I want it to remain healthy. Unfortunately,
the coming BYO policy and closed parties will change business as usual. Although these new rules may seem odious, they
will ensure the Court’s survival by minimizing our liability. Otherwise, one lawsuit could end the Court for good.

Each fraternity and women’s eating house carries liability insurance. My fraternity’s policy, doubtlessly similar to the others, prohibits kegs, open
parties, and slush funds, among other evils. If we ignore these rules, we lose our coverage, leaving us legally defenseless
in the event of an accident. This means that a court could require that any house member pay thousands of
dollars a year to satisfy a judgment. Do you want your name on a lawsuit?

We can follow the rules while having fun — BYO does not mean no parties. In fact, Virginia Tech houses
throw fun BYO parties. On a BYO Patterson Court, people will still dance, socialize, and relax. They can drink as
long as they bring their own or have friends who bring their own.

Some people have raised noteworthy concerns, including potential increases in drunk driving and binge drinking. However, these concerns are not
well-founded. After Duke went BYO, for example, the number of emergency room visits plummeted from 5-7 per weekend to 0-1.
BYO does not mean that Davidson students will act irresponsibly.

Of greatest concern to me are closed parties. I’d hate for the Court to become exclusionary and divisive. But I
think we can produce inclusive guest lists which satisfy our insurance policies. Neither BYO nor guest lists will force parties
off campus or ruin the Court. A lawsuit could. Accepting these changes means protecting our skins from a legal climate
hostile to fraternities and eating houses. It’s the best way to make sure that we can enjoy the Court in
the years to come.

The Davidsonian is looking for interested people to apply for editorial positions for the fall semester. Call John or Mary
Clare at 2148 if you want to write, edit, manage advertising, take pictures, or work on our web page.
