THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 1996

JOURNEY TO CHINA
By Brooke BAGWELL
Staff Writer

As students studied faraway places through the classroom, other Davidson scholars explored foreign countries first-hand. Last semester, Professor of English Gill Holland sponsored a semester abroad in China through a program based in Washington D.C., called China Educational Tours. Living in Beijing, the capital, the students studied at a Chinese university and had several opportunities for adventure.

Ten students from Davidson and 9 others from Presbyterian College, Guilford College, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and Wake Forest University attended the Capital Normal University College of Foreign Languages in the western part of Beijing. The students lived in dorms, took four classes for four hours each day, including two language classes, a contemporary Chinese literature class taught by Dr. Holland, and a seminar on Chinese environmental issues.

Davidson student Chris Williams says the “workload was probably light in comparison to Davidson” and allowed time for travel and experimentation with Chinese culture. Travel consisted of weekly group trips and individual trips. The difficulties of transportation proved to be an obstacle for the students, but Holland says the Davidson students “were fearless in accepting the challenge of Chinese transportation.” Transportation within the city was most convenient by taxi or bike.

Individual exploration took students all over China from tourist attractions to little-known rural towns: Katie Saldarini described journeying eight hours by bus to visit a small Tibetan town in the Gansu Province, called Xiahe. She also trekked to Xi’an, where an army of terra-cotta soldiers is buried, and to a private beach for communist Chinese officials. John Spainhour and Williams also went to Shanghai and to the Great Wall of China.

Living, traveling, and studying among the Chinese provided each group member the opportunity for total immersion in Chinese language and lifestyle. Students initially reported difficulty with the language, but as Williams said, “the language barriers fell down as the semester went by.” Saldarini mentioned that once the students began to understand the language better, it was “much easier to use because there are no verb tenses, and you can form sentences quickly.”

Many students of the group plan to keep up their Chinese and possibly pursue careers dealing with China or the Chinese language. Both Spainhour and Williams indicated an interest in continuing the study of Chinese at Davidson; they are both considering living in China again after college. Williams still communicates with his Chinese roommate and plans to go into marketing or sales dealing with China.

Holland felt the main success of the trip was the motivation of the students. Holland said, “It was a challenge and the students rose to the occasion. They took advantage of every opportunity and earned the respect of everybody.”

SUMMER SCHOOL
Be a Carolina Tar Heel!
Session I: May 20-June 25, 1996
Session II: June 27-August 2, 1996

Students from any college or university, teachers, rising high school seniors, and others who are not enrolled at UNC-CH may apply as Visiting Summer Students for first, second, or both sessions. UNC-CH offers over 900 courses.

$131 PLUS $50 per credit hour for Undergraduates, $50 per credit hour for Graduates.

When requesting a catalog and application, please mention seeing this ad in The Davidsonian for special attention.

Summer School
CB #3340, 200 Pettigrew Hall
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3340
919-962-1009
Fax: 919-962-2752
E-mail: summer_school@unc.edu
EEO Institutionoffered in the evening. In one course, the science of enhancing and testing athletic performance is examined, covering topics from ancient Greece to the present. The course is available in both sessions and spans over 40 disciplines, including sports contracting. 

- Cost per Session (NC Resident): tuition and fees of approximately $368 per credit hour for undergraduates.

AIDS speakers come to campus
By Mary Clare JALONICK
Guest Writer

“When you get beyond the shock and adjustment of finding out you’re HIV positive,” says Joel Goldman, “you realize that you need to make the most of every day.” When Goldman discovered he was HIV positive, he decided to help others prevent the deadly disease. With a mixture of humor and real-life college scenarios, Goldman and his friend T.J. Sullivan will present “Friendship in the Age of AIDS” Wednesday at 7:30 in Love Auditorium. Since the pair began traveling in 1993, they have presented their program to more than 150,000 students. The two travel full-time with their program to more than 80 campuses each year. Sullivan believes that this program will stick with students more than most AIDS awareness programs: “Students don’t expect to laugh this hard at an AIDS program,” he says, “It doesn’t take them long to realize that we’re not your typical AIDS educators.”

Suburbia from page 1

The trend is toward the creation of isolated subdivisions, connected only by major roads. According to the Davidson Plan, however, traffic would be free to move in any direction rather than emptying out onto several heavily trafficked thoroughfares. Although the plan may affect certain areas of vacant campus on the outskirts of the College’s main grounds, Lawing says, “the existence of the campus affects the town much more than the Land Plan will affect Davidson [College].” Bob Collins concurs and explains that there is a possibility that roads may be constructed on some of the college’s vacant property between Highway 115 and Grey Road in order to relieve traffic in the downtown area. However, he says, “we will try to minimize impact and find a nice balance between land use and college need.”

In addition to traffic issues, the Plan addresses modification of future urban development. In what Lawing describes as a “reorientation” toward an older neighborhood concept, the plan aims to preserve open space. Rather than building homes isolated by large lots, builders are granted permission to develop more homes on smaller plots of land, creating a greater sense of community and neighborhood. Creators of the plan say they’ve also attempted to encourage a level of mixed housing not often seen in today’s development. Yet many members of the Davidson community feel that, as stated in the draft of Davidson’s Land Plan, “It would be difficult to improve upon the traditional American small town...” For this reason, the Land Plan seeks not to change Davidson’s character, but rather “to adapt the best of this tradition to the conditions of the late 20th and early 21st Century.”

LOOKING FOR A JOB? Try Charlotte, NC, one of the country's hot spots rated as having the Nation's "#1 Pro-Business attitude." Get a free information packet by calling our automated information system at (704) 845-4636, by writing to The Charlotte Chamber--P.O. Box 32785- Charlotte, NC 28232, or via internet, http://www.charweb.org/ charlotte/chamber/index.html