THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1996

Students call for better darkroom facilities

By ANN HATFIELD
Staff Writer

Davidson’s Visual Arts Center was designed with an unfinished darkroom. Now, two years after the building’s completion, still no darkroom
exists.

Davidson students have expressed concern that this otherwise comprehensive and progressive art center houses no photography facilities.

Herb Jackson, Chairman of the Art Department, explains that completing the darkroom and endowing a new professorship to oversee a
photography program would cost in excess of $1 million. He does, however, call it a future goal of the college.

“If enough students demonstrate interest in photography and a darkroom, a more desirable location might be the new student Union,”
says Jackson. A darkroom in the Union could be used for extracurricular as well as academic purposes; and thus would
not mandate hiring a new professor.

Seniors Brooke McCrae and Rob Kosicki, two student photographers, applaud this plan.

“There is definitely interest in photography on campus but the facilities are so bad that they deter students from cultivating
talent,” says McCrae. “The darkroom in the basement of the Union is infested with bugs, allows light to infiltrate, has
severe plumbing problems, and houses chemicals that have been there since the mid-80s.”

The present facility is used almost exclusively by the newspaper and yearbook staffs because they are the only groups with
a photography budget.

Kosicki supports including a student darkroom in the new union and even suggests purchasing a yearly membership to fund chemical
and maintenance costs, which would lower expenses. “Davidson needs a new user-friendly facility,” adds Kosicki.

The empty room designated for photography in the Visual Arts Center.

Josh Glazer

New user-friendly system will give grades by phone beginning this summer
Registrar’s Office offers prize to students who name it

By CATHERINE ANDERSON
News Editor

Davidson can now join the ranks of bigger, more efficient schools. Students can now stop running to the mailbox over
Christmas and summer breaks.

The Registrar’s Office recently purchased a new telephone voice response product through a grant from the Mellon Foundation, allowing students
to call in and receive grades and do schedule adjustments by computer.

“What we want to do is be more efficient and eliminate long lines in the gallery for schedule adjustments,” says
Registrar Polly Griffin.

The current option for telephone schedule adjustments has helped reduce these lines dramatically, but the new system will allow more
people to call at one time and communicate their needs through a computerized response system.

“It’s very user-friendly,” she adds. It will be available in the spring for students to call in and receive their
grades.

Griffin is offering a prize of $50 to the student or group of students who name the new voice response
system. Those wanting to submit a name can turn in their responses to the registrar’s office before March 1.

NAIL BOUTIQUE

GET READY FOR SPRING BREAK
NEW TAN RATES
$4.00 PER SESSION
10 sessions for $33.00
15 sessions for $43.00
20 sessions for $50.00
Monthly Unlimited for $49.00

Located at the Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St., Cornelius

(704) 892-7030

Sculptured Nails * French Manicures * Pedicures

TREAT YOURSELF TODAY!

SGA

from page 1

day. Chancellor Dennis Seavers calls the turnout “excellent” and the election “efficient.”

Though she lost her first bid for office in her sophomore year, Freeman served as Warner Hall’s representative to the
SGA during the Spring 1995 term. In April of that year she went on to win a place as president
of the junior class.

Her goal is simple: “I’m a talker,” she says. “So many people don’t know the issues on campus... I want
to get them talking.”

The buzzword for her campaign was “communication,” and Freeman is excited about her role as a liaison between the SGA,
the students, and the faculty.

“I’ve already had three or four people approach me... That’s great,” she says, “I’m glad people already feel they can
come to me.”

Freeman’s most recent work in the SGA involved the move for minors at Davidson. Though she must resign as co-chair
of the Council on Academic Affairs, which has been the main organization behind the proposal, Freeman intends to keep pushing
for their approval.

She says that chances that Davidson students will be allowed to declare minors in the coming years are “improving.”

“The faculty just need to hear from students,” she adds.

Regarding her opponents Freeman says, “All candidates brought out issues I hope they’ll help us address.”

Saintsing and Dervan, two other candidates for Vice President, pledged to do so. “Just because [elections are] over doesn’t mean
[the issues] go away,” says Saintsing.

Dervan agrees: “I’m going to pursue them just as if I were Vice President.”

Buford was confirmed by the Senate at last Tuesday’s meeting. Both he and Freeman took the oath of office at
an inaugural reception held Sunday evening.

We are always looking for news writers. Call Catherine, -2148

CONTEST!

NAME DAVIDSON'S VOICE RESPONSE SYSTEM

Individuals, halls, houses, groups submit suggestions to registrar's office. A group of students, faculty, and staff representation will select the
winning entry.

Contest Ends March 1

Suggested Name

Submitted by:

Extension:
