THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1996

Senior Lora Chavis holds her Maxwell Thurman award. She is the first woman — and the first Davidson student — to win.

Chavis first woman to win ROTC Award
By STEPHEN CEFALU
Staff Writer

In a ceremony held in the Davidson College President’s office on Wednesday, October 9, Lora Chavis, a Davidson senior and ROTC Cadet, was presented the 1996 Maxwell Thurman Award by Colonel Robert Raynor, President of the Reserve Officers Association of the United States (Department of North Carolina).

The Maxwell Thurman Award, named for the distinguished late Army Vice Chief of Staff, is presented annually to the top-ranked North Carolina Army ROTC Cadet in the All-America Officers Advanced Camp held at Fort Bragg over six weeks of the summer. Chavis is the first female recipient of the award and also the first Davidson cadet to receive the honor.

Chavis joined ROTC as a sophomore and dedicated herself to developing proficiency in the skills required for the All-America Advanced Camp. She describes this as “the pinnacle of the ROTC Experience.” Chavis’ training paid off when she found herself listed among the top 300 cadets in her regiment after six weeks of comprehensive evaluations at Ft. Bragg.

Colonel Kevin Colcord, a Davidson Professor of Military Science, says that Chavis’ award was not a complete surprise to him. “Lora is a tremendous all-around person, very upbeat, dedicated, and driven,” he says. Currently, Chavis holds the top position within the Davidson Corps of Cadets as Cadet Battalion Commander.

Chavis describes her ROTC experience as very rewarding. The skills she has learned range from how to shoot an M-16 to how to lead a cadet battalion. Says Chavis, “ROTC is essentially a confidence-building program. The program really forces you to evaluate how you work with other people.”

Chavis says she’s also benefitted from a three-week shadowing experience she spent with an aviation unit at Hunter Army Base in Savannah, GA last summer. As the top-rated cadet in the state of North Carolina, Chavis stands a good chance at gaining entry into the medical service corps. She designated this as her most preferred branch of the service upon graduation this spring.

President John Kuykendall describes Chavis’ recent honor as “a capstone award for a person who has proven herself remarkable in so many different contexts on campus.” Kuykendall continues, “This honor speaks well for both Lora and the ROTC Department here at Davidson.”

Campus police revamp communication system
By STEPHEN CEFALU
Staff Writer

Campus police have expanded their phone system to make it more “user friendly.” Calls received from emergency call boxes on campus are now automatically forwarded to the cellular phone of the on-duty campus police officer. Emergency police request phone calls will still be handled by a dispatcher at the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Communication Center, which communicates with Davidson’s Campus Police over a radio relay system. Should the cellular phone line be busy, the call will transfer to the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Communications Center.

The key new feature of the communication system is the non-emergency campus police line which is now reached by dialing the on-campus extension — 2178. When the line is unattended, a voice mail system is activated which gives the caller the option of pressing “1” to be transferred to the cellular phone line of the Campus Police Officer on duty.

Thrower says that the new on-campus extension for non-emergency police calls was designed to make students on campus more comfortable in taking advantage of such campus police services as after-hours escorts. “We are searching for ways to better serve the entire college community,” says Thrower, “and by implementing these changes I feel we’ve more personalized the Campus Police communication system.”

Forum on Religion and Politics
Tues, Oct. 22
7:30 p.m.
Speakers include: representatives from The Christian Coalition, Bread for the World, America United for Separation of Church and State, and President Kuykendall.

Poetry Reading Night at Jumpin’ Java
Tuesday at 8:30
In the Outpost

Speaker Lectures Series
October 21-25
NATIVE AMERICAN WEEK

Native American Poetry
Sponsored by the Union Outpost Committee

Storyteller and cultural historian Lloyd Arheah from Cherokee, NC “Electrifies” the Outpost
Sponsored by the Union Cultural Events Committee

Choctaw Author and Lecturer LeAnne Howe
Speaks on “Toxic Waste Management on the Mississippi”
Thursday, 7 p.m. in the 900 Rm.
Reception following lecture
Sponsored by the Ethnic Studies Program and the Public Story Telling
Wednesday 8-10 p.m.

TRUSTEE COMMITTEES
compiled by Ann Culp

Council on Buildings and Grounds
Six trustees, one faculty member, Bob Collins as administrative liaison, and Senior Neléona Chandler met to discuss physical improvements to the Davidson campus.Major projects for the upcoming year include the Watson Life Science Building, which will be an extension of the Dana Science Building. The outline of the new building was staked out prior to Fall Break. Other major projects include some renovations to the President’s House, improvements to Martin Science Building’s second floor, and access control (Cat-card scanners) on the doors of Chambers. The installment of a fiber network into all dormitory facilities is the long-term project. All students will be able to plug into the Internet from their dorm rooms within a few years.

Council on Athletic Policy
Four trustees, four professors, Athletic Director Jim Murphy, Assistant Athletic Director Stirling Martin, and SGA Vice President Clair Freeman met to discuss major athletic policy. Improvements on the track took top priority. Half of the $500,000 needed for its construction has been raised. The IMAC fields were designated as the site of the future track, and plans were made to resurface the current track and enlarge the future IMAC fields. The new track’s center will be used as an intramural field, while the current track will be used for jogging. Other discussions involved the Self-Study for athletics. In an effort to encourage more communication and publicity between students and alumni, one goal is to create a newsletter called Track of the Cat for alumni athletes and others included on the mailing list. The mailing would include information on present Davidson athletes. A new full-tuition scholarship, the Norris Scholarship, was created for entering athletes and will be offered every four years beginning in fall 1997. It is designated for a top student accepted at Davidson and a potential Southern Conference champion athlete. Final discussions involved the Baker basketball court, which was raised three feet and made state-of-the-art, and the recent expansion of the intramural program. The fall intramural program is twice as large as in previous years and includes more eating house and upperclass hall involvement and, for the first time, coed teams.

Council on Campus and Religious Life
Bill Wood, a trustee and minister at First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, chairs this committee. Members include four trustees, Dean Shandley, Dean Jeffries, Assistant Director of Residence Life Beth Bell, Assistant Director of Career Services Tony Butchello, Professor Mary Thornberry, PCC President John Cowan, and SGA President Warren Buford. Butchello raised the concern with the small number of the class of 1995 which went on to medical school after graduation. Pre-professional advising at Career Services with special emphasis on medical school was discussed. A committee of faculty, administration, students, and one trustee are currently visiting other college unions and soliciting suggestions to be included in the plans for a new college union. As soon as construction of the Life Sciences building is begun, the union will become top priority. Buford raised the subject of parking on campus, especially the increase in fees, the towing policy, and the need for a transportation system.

Council on Institutional Advancement
Three trustees, Professor Benjamin Klein as faculty liaison, John Clark of WDAV, Osborne Bethea, Jr., and James May, Jr. of the Office of Institutional Advancement, and Senior Will Cowan discussed fundraising for Davidson. After ending the ten-year Campaign for Davidson, fundraising went surprisingly well this year. 95.05% of the projected annual fund was raised, creating a total amount of $382,635.22. Of the amount projected to be raised from each donating group, parents of Davidson students gave more than expected at 105.23%, alumni gave 98.62% of projected, friends gave 134.38%, churches 156.18%, and corporations and foundations 78.4% of expected contributions. Davidson ranks third among the top liberal arts colleges in Living Endowment, surpassed only by Williams and Swarthmore. The biggest expenditure proposed for the coming year is the Life Science Project. It requires $12 million total, and $6,089,000 has already been raised. As a result, groundbreaking is proposed for spring 1997. The building should be available for use by fall 1998.

Council on Admission and Financial Aid
Six trustees, Libby Mills as faculty liaison, Dean Nancy Cable as administrative liaison, Dr. Kuykendall, and Sophomore Rives Moore attended. Most of the business centered around financial aid. Gordon L. Peck and Harrison Hagan Heil of the financial aid office presented the financial aid planning team preliminary report. In 1992, the Board of Trustees accepted the committee’s recommendation to impose a 13.5% cap on unrestricted funding to financial aid from the education and general budget. The report recommended “a stabilizing modification.” A decision will probably be made regarding the cap in the next meeting on February 3. The Financial Aid Office recommended creating a financial aid reserve account, using net revenue instead of expenditures as the measure of accountability, maintaining financial aid fundraising and development as a priority, and returning to equity packaging of need-based funds.