THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1996

SGA Senate holds dinner with Davidson town council
Town and College governments dine to improve town-gown relations

By JENNIFER SIKKE

Staff Writer

SGA senators hosted a catered dinner meeting with the Davidson town council, as well as Davidson Mayor Russell Knox, and Davidson Town Manager Leamon Brice.

Saad Gul, Senior Class President and Chair of the SGA Roundtable Committee, organized the event, held two weeks ago in the DuPont Room of Vail Commons.

The Thursday evening dinner was intended to provide an opportunity for student leaders and town officials to get personally acquainted with each other as a first step in improving the student-town relationship.

Although students did not press any particular issues, hope that the town might help with the SGA’s rides program, now in the works, was expressed by the Senate as a whole. In addition, students voiced interest in some Main Street shops establishing student discounts.

SGA president Warren Buford expressed gratitude that the Town Council repealed the town’s parking decision.

According to Buford, “On the whole, [the town officials] were very sympathetic to our concerns.”

Head Independent Senator Matthew Hobbie, a junior, ate with Town Manager Leamon Brice. “We talked about a number of issues. We talked a lot about businesses on Main Street ... and how there should be more stores that gear themselves toward students. [Brice] expressed the fact that people in the town feel the same way.”

“I think it is really important that we do this,” Hobbie continues, “because ... a lot of decisions the town council makes affect students, whether through parking, or the Post Office, or businesses on Main Street ... it is very important that students ... talk in some way with the town government.”

Julie Chevalier, Freshman Class Senator, sat at a table with Davidson's mayor, Russell Knox. “The mayor seemed really open to ... our opinions,” she says, “They said that they had not had enough student contact and wanted to have more,” Chevalier continues.

Both student leaders and town officials seem to feel the meeting was a success and look forward to a continued dialogue.

Town Manager Brice says, “We were extremely pleased... I think we discussed a lot of good things.”

Buford says, “The dinner was a very positive event. It could spark some good things in the future in terms of student and town relations.”

Town council members invited the SGA to send a representative to Davidson’s monthly town meetings.

In return, the SGA invited the town council to send a representative to SGA meetings and has plans to hold a formal meeting with the town council in the future.

ANNOUNCING

NEW SUPPORT GROUP

THURSDAYS AT 7:00 P.M.

ROOM 205 at

DAVIDSON COLLEGE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH

You are most welcome to this support group. It is a place where individuals can share their fears, hopes, thoughts, and experiences with others who also have an eating disorder.

This is a small community of individuals who are free to express feelings and to learn how others cope with eating disorders.

A sense of community and validation will be provided to you.

Always remember this is a support group -- NOT a therapy group.

For more information, call Melanie Newton 892-6222

Johnston Gym to get new fire doors.

By RANDY HARTWELL
News Editor

After years of exposure to the elements, the rotten fire doors of Johnston Gym are being replaced. Though the doors have been functional under official state fire regulations for years, they haven’t always had the “panic bars” that enable quick escape in emergencies.

Until now, the doors have just been kept locked except during events held in the gym, according to Director of Public Safety Ray Thrower. The new fire exits, complete with “panic bars,” will be part of an effort to spruce up the aging hardware of the facility.

Thrower says College Union Director William Brown approached him about the security of the doors, since the Union uses Johnston for programming. Brown, who was out of town for the weekend, could not be reached for comment.

Ed Daugherty, co-director of Davidson Outdoors, whose offices are in the basement of Johnston Gym, says he’s wanted to see the doors replaced “since I started working here.” But, he adds, “We’re glad it’s happening. [The new fire exits] are an important step in securing the building.”

Associate Director of Operations and Management Phillip Cashion says he and the Physical Plant had hoped to locate better doors within the College’s holdings. Unable to find any, new fire doors were ordered last week, and Cashion expects them to be installed soon.