4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1996

Interview with Jim Martin: the former U.S. Representative and Governor of North Carolina reminisces about Davidson and his career.

Jim Martin, speaking at Davidson in 1987. College Archives

What exactly do you do now?
I’m Vice President of Research at the Carolinas Medical Center in Charlotte. To enhance the residency program, it has developed a rather strong collection of research specialists here at the Cannon Research Center. We have a number of very promising research leads that we’ve developed here. And so my job is not only to provide the spiritual leadership but also the budget design, recruiting, and occasionally refereeing for disciplinary matters. It’s organizational executive leadership.

What do you think about managed care and HMOs?
I think it was unavoidable because of all the interest in past years in controlling the rise of the cost of health care. I was very much opposed to governmental action to require capitation payments on the simple political theory that if it were all that desirable you wouldn’t need to impose it because the marketplace would. If it wasn’t that good an idea, then you shouldn’t impose it. Either way, it wasn’t an appropriate activity for government. While I give the Clintons a lot of credit for bringing attention to health care financing issues, I was very much opposed to their proposal to take what looked like a good idea and mandate that everyone had to do it.

Why did you go into politics?
A lust for power in my heart, as Jimmy Carter would say. I was a mild-mannered chemistry professor at Davidson and began in politics doing precinct work in Davidson trying to help the local Republicans to get organized. I recruited a couple of students to help do surveys and found that if we identified the potential Republican voters and reminded them to get out and vote that we could improve our showing on election day. That was my start. I did run for town council in Davidson in 1963 and got beat because I didn’t campaign. I was advised by another faculty member on the town council that active campaigning was not considered worthy in Davidson, so I didn’t and lost. I went back to teaching and precinct work and then in 1966 I was recruited to run for County Commissioner. After six years of that, there was an opening in the U.S. House of Representatives. Our previous Congressman from the Ninth District was Charlie Jonas, who was Republican, so with a pretty good Republican base I got into that race and quickly found myself way behind. Early polls showed [my opponent] ahead.

BOWLES HOLLOWELL CONNER & Co. INVESTMENT BANKERS

NOVEMBER 6, 1996
NOVEMBER 8, 1996
DECEMBER 5, 1996

BOWLES HOLLOWELL CONNER & CO. IS THE PREMIER U.S. INVESTMENT BANK IN THE MIDDLE MARKET, PROVIDING ADVISORY SERVICES FOR MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS, AND DIVESTITURES AND ARRANGING FINANCING FOR GROWTH, RECAPITALIZATIONS, AND ACQUISITIONS ON TRANSACTIONS TYPICALLY VALUED BETWEEN $10 MILLION AND $200 MILLION.

SCHEDULE OF DAVIDSON ANALYST RECRUITING EVENTS
COMPANY PRESENTATION AND RECEPTION
RESUMES DUE TO CAREER SERVICES
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS

For More INFORMATION, CONTACT SARAH Brewer, 1996 GRADUATE
BOWLES HOLLOWELL CONNER & Co.
227 WEST TRADE STREET
CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA 28202
TELEPHONE: (704) 348-1103
Facsimile: (704) 348-1099

INQUIRIES MAY ALSO BE DIRECTED TO:
Craig Wise
TELEPHONE: (704) 348-100040% to 20% with a large undecided vote. On election day, he still got his 40% and I got the remaining 60%.

Is it true that you made the only budget proposal in 1982 that didn’t create a deficit?

We lost the substitute amendment but received 200 votes, and it takes 218 for a majority. That’s the closest we came to balancing the budget during that time. What it did was to spread the pain around to everybody. That way, the spending cuts would have a patriotic flavor to them. We didn’t actually cut programs. Cutting the growth of programs was enough to balance the budget at that time. There were others whose argument was that we should target areas that needed to be cut, but my feeling was that you could spend all your time doing that and lose because each of those areas has its own constituents and political strength and, in fact, that’s been the case.

Why did you get out of politics after having been so successful?

I was happy leaving by my own choice and on my own terms in 1992. I announced in a somewhat unorthodox setting than is usual that I would not run for office again. Usually, you wait a year before the election to announce that decision, and I announced it two years before. There are several reasons for that. One important consequence was that it cleared the air of bipartisan fighting that I had faced in previous years so that I was able to get some legislation through the General Assembly. By clearing the air and announcing in a very significant and convincing way that I wasn’t running for office again, the Democrats were left with no reason to oppose what I was working on. I was also ready to get back to private life. I felt I had done my duty after 26 years of public life. That was sufficient reason for me and my family to step aside from politics.

How close are your Davidson ties?

We’ve got a lot of friends at Davidson and really enjoy being with them and visiting the campus from time to time. I haven’t been to a football game this year but have been to a few in previous years, as well as soccer matches, basketball games, and a few plays. There are also a lot of Davidson friends here in Charlotte.

Is there anything else you want Davidson students to know about you?

Yeah, there’s at least one thing I want them to know about me. I was a very tough chemistry professor at Davidson when I was there. I don’t think it’s still around, but there used to be this cartoon advertisement that shows this big guy and says that he’s ‘tough but oh so gentle’. Well, I was tough and gentle. I laced my exams with questions that I hoped would stretch the creative mind. Sometimes that may have gotten out of hand, but students knew coming into my exams that they couldn’t just feed back information. My concept as an educator was that I wanted to know the difference between those who could and those who couldn’t solve problems creatively using what they had learned. So I want them to know that if they’d been in my class they would have to struggle, and it would be for their own good.