THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING

Palatable Pleasures
Recipes for people with two metal plates in their head

(Tip #1: stay away from microwaves)

COMPILED BY TERESA WHITE

We know that all the fans of Palatable Pleasures are wondering what has happened to their favorite columnist and our
favorite cook. Jeffery Cromartie has run into a little trouble lately and hasn’t felt quite up to slaving over the
stove or spouting off his usual insights into McCall’s cookbook. So in honor of our overly medicated chef, the Davidsonian
staff has come together to produce this collection of easy, microwaveless recipes:

From the Sports Editors: VanCamp’s fish sticks. Follow box directions. Best crunchy. Just like Mom makes. 12:30 a.m.

From Arts Editor: Kraft Cheese and Macaroni — it’s the cheesiest. Follow box directions. Helpful hint: do the mixing in
the pot you used for boiling. Then eat out of the same pot, and you only have one thing to
clean!

From the Opinions Editor: Hire a cook.

From the News Editors: OceanSpray cranberry sauce — just in time for the holidays! Open and invert can. Watch it
slide out ... plop. Revel in the sound.

From the Cartoonist: Beer-basted hot dogs. Soak hot dogs in beer while you (and friends, we hope) finish the rest
of the six-pack. Don’t drink the beer used to soak the dogs. You'll need it later. While roasting hot dogs
on grill or campfire, occasionally pour the beer you saved from the soaking over the dogs. Be careful not to
put out the fire. Roast to taste. Best with more beer.

From Mary Clare’s kitchen: Pasta. Buy bag of pasta. Put water in large pot. Watch water bubble. Put pasta in
water. Wait a few minutes. Throw pasta (one piece) against wall, and if it sticks, then remove pot from stove
— it’s ready. If it doesn’t, it’s not. Wait a few more minutes and throw more pasta. If venting stress,
throw at friend.

From John’s kitchen: Curd and cuke sandwich— an original. Do you dare? You need two pieces of sourdough bread, a
cup and a half of low-fat cottage cheese, a tablespoon of light mayonnaise, a fourth cup of fresh chives, and
a fresh cucumber. Chop the chives into little pieces. Blend, blend, blend the mayo, cheese, and chives until spreadable. Spread
evenly on bread. Slice cucumbers and lay on cheese spread. Best cut into fourths.

From Teresa, who doesn’t have a kitchen: Wine and ice cream. Red wine, chocolate chip cookie dough ice cream, a
personal favorite. Eat and drink, or pour wine on top. It’s all good.

---

Martha Montello, current visiting Davidson professor from Harvard Medical School, will be speaking on “Choosing Literature.”

Jumpin’ Java provides you with an outlet to study, converse, and enjoy coffee in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. -
11:15 a.m.

Bone Marrow Drive allows you to help save lives in the Morrison Room 11 a.m. - 2 p.m.

Jane Goodall, world-renowned anthropologist, will speak in Love Auditorium 7:30 p.m.

Jumpin’ Java means good coffee and conversation in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Twenty-one Year Old Night is where you can find upperclassmen in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

“The Other Hand” will discuss the conception “Christianity stifles personal freedom” in the Morrison Room 3 p.m.

Strange Snow, a Stephen Metcalf play, will be directed by Professor Alex Pinkston and will be performed in the Black
Box Theatre 7:30 p.m. $4 student admission.

Dead Man Walking will be showing in the 900 Room 9:30 p.m.

Crop Lunch serves you in the 900 Room 11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m.

Jane Mead, poet in residence at Wake Forest University, will have a poetry reading in the Outpost at 7 p.m.

Sarah Burns, Professor of Fine Arts at Indiana University, will speak on “Being Big: Winslow Homer and the American Business
Spirit” in Chambers Gallery 7 p.m.

Strange Snow will be performed again in the Black Box Theatre 7:30 p.m.

Davidson College Symphony Orchestra will perform their Fall Concert in Love Auditorium 8 p.m.

Coffeehouse gets your Friday off to a good start in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.

F.A.C. Pub will take place in the 900 Room 4:30 p.m. - 8 p.m.

Strange Snow will be showing again in the Black Box Theatre 7:30 p.m.

Dead Man Walking will show again in the 900 Room 8 p.m.

Strange Snow will give you another chance to be cultured in the Black Box Theatre 7:30 p.m.

Saturday Night Live entertains you in the 900 Room 8 p.m. - midnight.

Strange Snow will perform for the last time in the Black Box Theatre 2 p.m.

Jumpin’ Java equals that much-needed Pre-Thanksgiving Break caffeine boost in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.
