THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1996 13

Palatable Pleasures
Balance your savage aggression by grillin’ a fowl

By JEFFERY CROMARTIE
Chef-in-Residence

Photo Contest Winners

Ever find yourself staring into a campfire? Ever lose your thoughts in the flickering warmth of oxidation? Again, just like
bread preparation, there is a deep, pleasing feeling somehow associated with the ambiance of an open flame. From an evolutionary
standpoint, it is easy to see why so many of us are hypnotically lured by the dance of the flames.
Our ancestors learned to harvest the energy for warmth and food preparation. Without this energy, they were much more prone
to disease and the chilling bite of winter. Perhaps past memories and instincts are somehow locked into our seemingly endless
strands of nitrogenous bases. Perhaps we feel a tiny remnant of thoughts and emotions of the ancient past. So, take
some time and really pay attention to the sights, sounds, and smells of sizzling, crackling flesh over an open fire.
If only for a moment, open yourself to the savage beauty and wonder what drives our souls. The awe of
the unknown awaits us all.

Now that women are becoming hunter-providers, it is definitely to a working female’s advantage to be skilled at manning a
grill. Why? First, the savage beauty we briefly discussed before can be tapped and used to one’s advantage in the
jungle of corporate America. You simply have to be aggressive in the business world or somebody is going to steamroll
you without thinking twice. Honing one’s hunter-provider instincts could prove helpful in boosting more intellectual aggression. Although we say we
are civilized, nothing has really changed. It is still about who gets what and how much. Let the smells, texture,
and taste of char-grilled flesh fill you with the primal drives still necessary to acquire and protect resources. How else
are we supposed to be able to send our kids to Davidson? Well, hopefully we won’t be that cruel.

Recently I have been pleased to see quite a few women operating various grills around campus, while their males stand
around playing with their filthy baseball caps. Having the hunter-provider of the family operate the grill also begins to balance
the domestic tasks of food preparation. Remember that balance is critical in any family or relationship. The more tasks completed
as a unit, the closer the unit becomes. Granted, most of the work should be done by the chief of
domestic affairs, while the hunter female is out claiming resources, but always at least offer to help with preparation or
clean up after the hunt.

Enough Dogma: Here is what you do:

Grilled Basil Chicken -

—Mix two sticks of butter (1/2 Cup), 2 tablespoons of freshly shredded parmesan cheese, and a big handful of freshly
chopped basil. Wait till the butter gets soft, and then mix it until it is smooth and spoonable.

—Grill 4 boneless, skinless chicken breasts, and brush them with melted butter every time you flip them.

—Spoon the butter basil mix over the grilled chicken and serve. Add fresh ground pepper as well.

Clinical Depression: Self-Screening Test

CLINICAL DEPRESSION IS A TREATABLE MENTAL ILLNESS THAT AFFECTS 12 MILLION PEOPLE EACH YEAR. IF YOU OR SOMEONE YOU KNOW
HAS HAD THREE OR MORE OF THE FOLLOWING SYMPTOMS FOR MORE THAN TWO WEEKS, CONTACT THE STUDENT HEALTH CENTER FOR
AN INDIVIDUAL EVALUATION AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. PHONE 892-2451

—Feeling of sadness and/or irritability
—Loss of interest or pleasure in activities once enjoyed
—Changes in weight or appetite
—Change in sleeping pattern
—Feeling guilty, hopeless, or worthless
—Fatigue or loss of energy
—Inability to concentrate, remember things, or make decisions
—Restlessness or decreased activity noticed by others
—Thoughts of suicide or death

Top to bottom—1st place: “Colmar, France,” Clay Cofer.
2nd place: “Signs,” Ashley Gribble.
3rd place: “Girl at fountain,” Ashley Gribble.

Spalding Gray in

“It’s a Slippery Slope”
Don't miss this evening with America’s Surgeon General of Satire. Spalding Gray is equal parts storyteller, stand-up comedian, and group
therapist.

October 21 ° 8:15 p.m.
Love Auditorium

TICKETS: call 892-2135

Davidson College

Artists Series

1996-1997
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 10
7:00 PM — 900 ROOM
$10.00

Upcoming Events:
Faculty/Staff season tickets:
Individual $20, Couple $30, Family of Four $45, Emeriti $15
Individual event tickets available.
