NEWS In focus ... NEW PROFESSORS

Marie Vasquez: here to join in a ‘common enterprise’

THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1996

Presidential Search Committee issues progress report

In addition to placing announcements in the higher education press and soliciting nominations from members of the Davidson College community, we wrote to hundreds of leaders in higher education and related fields for their suggestions... As a result, we developed quite a "library" of candidate files over the summer, which we have now studied thoroughly. At a meeting on September 5, we agreed that a number of these prospects stood out, and are now asking them for permission to call references. We'll meet in a few weeks to share reports of these calls and to decide which of our leading candidates should be invited for preliminary, confidential interviews with the committee in late October.

-excerpt from a press release by Presidential Search Committee Chair Larry Dagenhart

The Duchess Nail, Hair & Tanning Salon

Full service salon for women & men
892-7030
“Best Prices in Town"

Nails
manicures * pedicures in European spa pedicure chair
acrylic * gels * tips * fiberglass

Tanning
“Hottest Bulbs in Town"
$4.00 per session * $33.00 for 10 sessions
$43.00 for 15 sessions * $50.00 for 20 sessions

Treat yourself...you deserve it
Ask for Connie, Michelle, or Susan
RedKen Hair Products & more...

Located 1/2 mile south of Davidson College Campus
NAIL BOUTIQUE
20700 N. Main St.

By ALEX OBREGON
Staff writer

One of the many new members of the Davidson faculty this semester is Spanish Professor Marie Vasquez who comes to Davidson full of enthusiasm about teaching. Originally from New York, Vasquez was raised in Grosse Pointe, Michigan, and spent the latter part of her youth in Arizona. Vasquez completed her undergraduate studies at Florida State University, where she earned a degree in Spanish and graduated magna cum laude. She obtained her master’s degree and her Ph.D. in language and literature at the University of Washington. After teaching at Kendall College in Chicago for a brief time, she went on to Arizona State University where she had a 14-year tenure. In Arizona, Vasquez founded a scholarly journal, Letras Peninsulares, of literary criticism, Spanish literature from the 18th century, and literary theory. Vasquez has taught at Michigan State University for the past seven years.

Vasquez was attracted to Davidson by the quality of the college and its academic excellence. She admires Davidson as a “true college community where faculty, staff, and students are engaged in a common enterprise with a great deal of enthusiasm.” Vasquez has two daughters, Suzanna Teresa, 19, a student at UNCC; and Anamaria Belen, 12, a 7th grader at Alexander Middle School in Huntersville. Vasquez hopes to stay at Davidson “teaching, learning, and working with my journal for many years.” Among the projects she would like to undertake while at Davidson are leading student trips to Spain, where she has lived for several periods of her life, and completing a novel on which she is currently working. Vasquez has been here since mid-July and is

Peter Sheldon: full of endorphins

By R. STEPHEN CEFALU
Staff Writer

He once shuttled himself from Winston Salem to New England and back again in the span of three days so he could run in the Boston Marathon and still return south in time to defend his PhD thesis. Even more impressive, Dr. Peter Sheldon accomplished all this while in the throes of a severe flu. Sheldon, a new visiting Professor of Physics says “energy, enthusiasm, interest” are what he wishes to inspire in his students. Sheldon graduated from Amherst College, where he concentrated on studies in atomic physics. He then entered University of Massachusetts at Amherst where he engaged himself in graduate work in low temperature physics. It’s clear the man has a passion for helium. Sheldon spent six years conducting experimental research, then completed his PhD work at Wake Forest University while gaining collegiate teaching experience. “I always wanted to teach,” says Sheldon, “It was always my plan.” He speaks with much enthusiasm about his current position at Davidson, which he anticipates will provide him with enough time for both teaching and research. “Students take top priority,” says Sheldon. “I want to identify with my students...All the professors I admired were tough, and yet very approachable.” Concerning his first impressions of Davidson, Sheldon says,Very enthusiastic about the start of the new academic year, a time which she finds “very exciting.” “This is the perfect setting for me. People here really want to learn.” The value of Sheldon’s own small liberal arts college experience has not been lost on him. “Physics is great to teach because no one wants to take it,” Sheldon quips. “My ultimate goal is to attract students to physics, to make them say ‘Wow! I want to take another class.’”

Perhaps endorphins are what inspire Sheldon’s passion for his profession. He nearly withdrew from graduate school to pursue a professional running career, something he’s worked toward since age ten. After a stellar Walt Disney World Marathon performance, Sheldon had his sights set on the 1996 Olympic Trials, but in the end, academic demands took precedence. Still, Sheldon says, “The 2000 Olympic Trials are not at all out of the question.”

SGA ELECTIONS

FRESHMEN SENATORS

FOSTER HASELDEN
Class President
Slogan: Foster. Australian for beer. American for leader.
No student government experience.
“The Class of 2000 is a landmark class. We want to make a statement for the millennium. From the first time I walked on the campus, the school grabbed me. I fell in love with it and everything Davidson stands for. I got to see the friendliness of the campus firsthand through the campaign.”

JULIE CHEVALIER
Slogan: Chevalier, the name that’s fun to say.
No student government experience.
“I want to allow the freshman class to have a voice in the senate. I will listen to what my peers tell me and base my decisions on that. Being the Class of 2000 is very special. We have a lot of potential.”

WHITNEY FRAZIER
Slogan: Whitney, she listens, she cares, she’s interested.
Four years of student government experience including president and vice-president.
“I’m really excited about being on Freshman Senate. I think it’s going to be a great year. I’m going to be there for our class.”

INDEPENDENT SENATORS

MARGARET HOOVER
Slogan: Vote Margaret Hoover for Freshman Senate.
No student government experience.
“I see SGA as a way to get involved in the life of Davidson. It is a stepping stone for me, a way to try something that I haven’t done before. I am very impressed with the class so far. I think that the fact that we sold out of Last Night Up [as opposed to First Night Down] t-shirts says a lot about the class.”

JOSLYN OGDEN
Slogan: Experience and dedication, a winning combination.
Four years of student government experience including class president.
“I feel like I’ve been blessed with the ability to communicate effectively between different groups. I am going to take freshmen’s concerns to SGA, the rest of the student body, and the faculty. I enjoy setting goals and watching them become a reality.”

KEVIN SMITH
Slogan: Better than those other tools.
Three years student government experience.
“I believe that everyone is becoming desensitized to flyers. We need a place to go to find out what’s going on both at Davidson and in Charlotte.”

The Davidsonian would like to apologize to career services for the “what are you going to do with your life, loser?” comment last week in regard to the internship fair. The ad was merely a shameless and pathetic space filler written by bitter and confused seniors.

MATTHEW HOBBIE, Junior
Head independent senator
“If the Student Government is powerful enough, then it can accomplish amazing things. If everyone on campus picked one thing to do or to stand for, the effect would be absolutely incredible.”

BOB LONERGAN, Sophomore
“I found things happening around school that I had never even heard about and began to feel left out. Being an independent senator is a great way to get involved in campus life and participate in the decisions that affect the student body as a whole.”

SANDY NEBLETT, Junior
“I want to serve and look out for the needs of fellow students.”

KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL, Sophomore
“I decided to run because I liked the idea of getting involved in the planning aspect of campus events and policies.”

KURT FESENMEYER, Sophomore
“I’m looking forward to an exciting and vocal year.”

CHRIS TUTTLE, Sophomore
“I’m excited about this year and the cool stuff that we can do, because oftentimes us independents get dumped on the social scene and I want to make sure that just because we're not [Greek-affiliated] we don't get the shaft from the rest of the campus.”