THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1996

Chambers keycards will be installed
By ALLISON DOLPH
Staff Writer

Last spring, the SGA voted to recommend that a security system be installed to protect students studying at night in Chambers. Subsequently, the Vice President’s Committee, the Director of Campus Safety, and the campus police have all seconded this measure. By spring semester of this year, the current doors on Chambers will be removed and new doors with keycard entrances will be installed.

Lucian Dervan, Junior Class President and the Chairman of the Student Advisory Council to the Director of Campus Safety, thinks that keycards are a proactive step. “I think it’s a great idea,” says Dervan. “It will really improve the safety of students.” Keycard systems are currently in place on the entrances to dorms. A desire to protect students from outside intruders prompted the Chambers addition. According to Dervan, incidents definitely have occurred in Chambers. Every spring, female students are asked to place pins in a campus map on the Union Board, indicating areas where they have been threatened or assaulted. Last spring, three such pins were placed on Chambers.

The heavy, outdated doors currently on Chambers cannot support the new security system, and would soon have to be replaced anyway since the wood is rotting. A major reason for the delay in installing the keycards on Chambers is the Vice President's Committee’s commitment to finding the best doors possible.

Jane Goodall to give Reynolds lecture
By ANDREW PRESTON
Staff Writer

Jane Goodall, a pioneer in chimpanzee research, will speak at Davidson on November 19 in Love Auditorium as this year’s Reynolds Lecturer. The Reynolds Lecture constitutes the most prestigious lecture at Davidson each year. As Vivian Dietz, Davidson professor and Speaker Coordinator, explains, “The purpose of the Reynolds lecture is to have a speaker of world stature, not just national.”

For over 30 years, the Reynolds lecture has attracted intellectual speakers from a variety of fields. Past speakers include Maya Angelou, Tom Foley, Tom Wolfe, Ralph Nader and most recently Cornel West. Jane Goodall has studied and lived with chimpanzees in their natural habitat for more than three decades. In this time, she has become a leader in improving conditions for chimpanzees in captivity, as well as increasing environmental awareness on many levels. Goodall makes public appearances around the world, and acts as both a political and educational force for the preservation of the environment. All money from her lectures goes to the Jane Goodall Foundation, which Goodall founded to support her cause. Goodall has published books on her research and experiences.

Clark Ross supervises AP tests
By ANN CUP
Staff Writer

Palms sweat and tensions run high as 25,000 high school students take the advanced placement (AP) exam in economics each year. Beginning in 1998, the person who causes this stress will be the Frontis Johnston Professor of Economics at Davidson, Dr. Clark Ross. With a committee of eight or nine people, Ross will annually change the exam as one of his many duties as chief faculty consultant for the economics AP.

For all but one year since the exam was first offered in 1989, Ross has served as a “table leader,” coordinating the work of about ten readers. He will now oversee the grading of all economics tests for the next several years and will participate in AP workshops to help high school teachers better understand the test. “The purpose of the committee is to ensure consistent grading of each student’s paper with the ideal being that a given answer would get the same score regardless of which reader graded it or when in the grading process it was graded,” says Ross. It is Ross’s duty to develop a standard. He must determine what correct answers should be and determine how to administer partial points. Ross is responsible for the future of many young economists.Chimpanzee studies, and has been featured in various magazines, including the December 1995 issue of National Geographic. As the Reynolds Lecturer, Goodall will attend lunch with Davidson students and attend a class, most likely in biology or an environmentally related class. The lecture’s venue is tentatively Love Auditorium, but could be moved to accommodate larger attendance. After the talk, a reception will be held for book signing and questions.

College prions AP exams are administered for the College Board by the Princeton, N.J., based Educational Testing Service (ETS). Each year ETS recruits thousands of high school and college people to read those exams. Ross says, “One thing that has impressed me with economics is the care and consistency which go into the grading process. The goals of consistency and reliability are of utmost concern to myself, ETS, and the College Board.” In comparison to economics, 133,000 students take the AP U.S. history exam and 143,000 take English. “At Davidson, we only have 10-20 students each year who have taken AP economics,” says Ross. “Many high schools don’t have a person trained in economics, so that is a big problem in getting the program across the country.”

The bars will soon be locked at night.

Retention rate soars
By Doug Penhallegon
Staff Writer

The percentage of students who graduate from Davidson in six years or less continues to be among the highest for liberal arts colleges. U.S. News & World Report lists Davidson’s retention rate at 91% this year, with 96% of last year's freshman class returning for their sophomore year. Over the past ten years, Davidson’s retention rate has hovered between 88 and 92%. Registrar Polly Griffin says statistics such as 92% are “almost unheard of ... That’d be the top of anyone’s pile.” Among the U.S. News & World Report’s 25 Best National Liberal Arts Colleges, which ranks Davidson 11th, the average graduation rate for the class of ‘95 is roughly 91%.

The retention rate is viewed as an indicator of students’ overall satisfaction with their school. Many aspects of students’ college experiences can influence retention. These include classroom setting, registration, social opportunities, living arrangements, athletics, and other facilities. Griffin points out that because Davidson’s graduation rate is so high, stereotyping reasons why students withdraw is speculative. She says that those who do withdraw have highly individual reasons. “It would be hard to say if movement in the top 25 influences retention or applications,” she says. However, Griffin also states that the college’s mission is to provide the best undergraduate liberal arts experience in the country. Speaking on behalf of the administration, she says, “Everything we do is geared toward nurturing a class to graduation.”

How we compare ...
Davidson retention rank: 12
Retention rate: 96%
1995 Graduation rate: 91%
U.S. News & World Report: behind looking the numbers a sampling of other schools ...

Freshmen retention rate:
Pomona, Haverford 98%
Swarthmore, Amherst, Williams, Middlebury 96%
Bates, Mount Holyoke, Grinnell 95%

1995 Graduation Rate:
Williams 96%
Amherst 95%
Swarthmore 93%
Pomona, Washington & Lee, Hamilton 91%

Hearings: Two Plagiarized Assignments
Sanctions: Failing grade in the class
Sanctions: F in the course
Withdrawal in all others
One-term suspension
Sanctions: F in the course
Two-term suspension

HONOR COUNCIL
In an effort to heighten awareness of the Honor Council’s role on campus and educate the college community about the stiff realities of a violation, The Davidsonian has agreed to publish the following Honor Council statistics from the Spring 1996 semester.

One- to two-term suspension
Authorized withdrawal from the other classes
One Cheated Final Examination
One Cheated Homework Assignment
One Cheated Lab Assignment
Sanctions: F in the course
Withdrawal from others
One term suspension
Two Thefts of a Parking Sticker
Sanctions: Letter of apology
Community Service
Fine

Total for the year:
6 cases of plagiarism
3 cases of stealing
3 cases of cheating
Total: 11 guilty
1 not guilty