THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING:

A Religious Left? The Sojourner’s conference bridges religious boundaries

By JILL WILLIAMS
Associate Editor for Arts & Living

The Sojourners’ conference on faith and politics was not a call for revolution, but a “Call for Renewal” that bridged
regional, racial, political, and religious boundaries. The “Call” hoped to gather grassroots activists and socially concerned Christians, representatives of Catholic,
mainline Protestant, Black, and Evangelical traditions, with political and national leaders such as former Senator Bill Bradley and Marian Wright
Edelman.

A combination of efforts on the part of the Christian Coalition and the media have delivered us into a time
in which the term Christianity is equated with conservative Republican views. Politically, many of the speakers would have been classified
as liberal in the time before politicians in both parties put a curse on that term. They spoke for encouragement,
not just tolerance, of diversity, for charity and rights for ostracized citizens, from the poor to homosexuals, and for wariness
of politicians who “invoke the name of God” in political life. In their gathering in Washington, DC, they attempted to
renounce all standard labels of Democrat or Republican, liberal or conservative.

Rather, as reported in the New York Times on Monday, September 16, 1996, “The speakers angrily and repeatedly targeted President
Clinton for compromising with the Republican-controlled Congress and signing the vast overhaul of the Federal welfare program that is ending
decades of guaranteed subsidies to the nation’s poorest children.” Perhaps the situation was analyzed best by Marian Wright Edelman, head
of the Children’s Defense Fund and organizer of the June 1st Stand for Children Rally, when she stated with regard
to the cutting of Aid to Families with Dependent Children, “What has happened to us that we won’t stand up
and say, ‘No, we won’t tolerate that?’”

The fact that the conference was a Christian movement does not mean that it meant to exclude non-Christians. Although the
conference was uniquely Christian, the message should transcend boundaries of religious affiliation. The “Call to Renewal” was about ending political
rhetoric and opening dialogue between God, yourself, and other people; it was a conference about integrating spirituality and political action,
not an alliance between the church and partisan politics.

Everything’s possible with Pop-Cycle

By KATE GREENE & JASON SCHMIDT
Concert Reviewers

Catfish Jenkins enlivened the 900 Room Saturday night. The four-person band appeared to be an ordinary college band on their
one-song debut on AWARE II, but proved themselves to be anything but on Saturday night. Pop-Cycle, their new name, consists
of four men: three football fanatics and a chess player. The chess player doubles as their lead vocalist and acoustic
guitarist. The others fill in the spots of electric guitarist, bassist, and drummer.

The vocals and acoustic guitar were the energetic force behind the show. One senior described the sound to be a
mix between fellow Athenians, REM, and Journey. Junior Sanders Hearne matter-of-factly claimed that they were just “damn good.” The sound
was college-band meets soul, as the guitarist sang with face-squinching passion. Senior Mary Baxter described the performance, saying that “there
is just so much energy on stage, but somehow it gets lost in the transition to the audience. Once a
spark of it gets...out, it is contagious.” One of their last tunes, the 80s hit “Safety Dance,” had more than
one Davidsonian out of their seat dancing in all corners (inspired by the lone presence of John Matthews earlier in
the show). Their rendition masterly joins rhythm-based vocals and a Southern rock slant to put a whole new spin on
the song. “Quiet,” a primarily acoustic number (the electric guitar became bluesy at points), mellowed the now large crowd. The
song contrasted well to the broken guitar string interlude jams. When strings were broken and jokes were sparse, the rest
of the band managed impromptus that arrested the crowd’s attention. Starting as familiar bass-lines, these jams soon creatively branched out
and solved the awkward problem of a broken string.

Childcare Needed for two children in Davidson home 3 or 4 afternoons/week 5-6:15 pm. Will include picking up both children
from afternoon programs. References required.

Salon Cornelius, NC
Amy Caban
HAIR DESIGNER
*Specializing in corrective color & foil highlighting
*10 years in Lake Norman area
*Attends all major hair shows
Call Cindy at 896-1640

Coffeehouse warms up your morning in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m. Jumpin’ Java provides the second dose
of caffeine in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. Twenty-One Year Old Night is where all the cool upperclassmen
will be 900 Room 10:30 p.m. - 12:30 Jumpin’ Java is kickin’ it at the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30
a.m.

WEDNESDAY
Union Seminary will have representatives available to talk to you in the Union Lobby 10:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. Richard
Keeling speaks on “Sex, Alcohol, and Self-Esteem: Health and Community on Campus in the 90s” in Love Auditorium 6:30 p.m.
- 9 p.m. “Skinny Girls,” a one-act play attacks body image in the Black Box Theatre (in Cunningham Fine Arts
Building) 8:30 p.m. Crumb is the Wednesday night entertainment in the 900 Room 9:30 p.m. Richard Keely puts on a
workshop in the Morrison Room 2 p.m. Community Dinner features Richard Keely as a speaker at the Ada Jenkins Community
Center 5:30 p.m. No charge. Speas Colloquium on Medical Ethics features keynote address speaker Richard Epstein, J.D. at Chambers Gallery
7 p.m. Call Jean Newman (704) 892-2482 to register. “Skinny Girls” is on again for those who missed it last
night or want to see it again in the Black Box Theatre 8:30 p.m.

Friday begins Homecoming Weekend. Pay close attention to the alumni to imagine yourself in twenty years. Coffeehouse serves fresh coffee
and doughnuts in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m. Crumb is playing again in the 900 Room 8
p.m. Speas Colloquium on Medical Ethics focuses on “Redesigning Ourselves, Engineering Our Children: The Ethical, Legal, and Social Implications of
the Human Genome Project” in Chambers Gallery. Be sure to register. The Blue Dogs take the stage at Richardson Field
9:30 p.m. Pub Night makes its debut in the 900 Room, 5:30 p.m. all the way to 1 a.m. Be
sure to check it out and support another great Union idea. Homecoming is celebrated at half-time of the football game
and at the parade on the way. Come hear Ghettoblasters, “loud snotty punk-pop,” in the newly redone Outpost 10 p.m.
- 12 a.m. Jumpin’ Java does it yet again in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.
