12

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 1996

Cosmic Coffee
misses the
stratosphere

By Jacob ABRAHAM
Coffee Critic

A friend recently told me about a certain Mormon university at which the pleasures of nicotine and caffeine are outlawed. As a willful addict of both cigarettes and coffee, I was aghast. The very thought made me grope for my lighter and rush right over to the latest addition to Davidson’s Main Street, the Cosmic Coffee House. Unfortunately, I quickly realized that I need not have thought to bring my trusty Zippo. Cosmic Coffee fits right in with the rest of the quaint shops on Main Street — another hide-out for the eco-friendly yuppies of the 90s. As far as I’m concerned, a “no smoking” sign in a coffeehouse might as well read “go home college creeps.”

The typical Cosmic Coffee Connoisseur is a late twenty-or-thirtysomething who likes to sip espresso and nibble on biscotti while pondering great literature or the folly of politics. Five or ten years ago, a place like this would have been a haven for disillusioned college misfits who like to wash down their angst with black java. However, if you like to relax in a place where the air is as sanitized and bland as the atmosphere, Cosmic Coffee is for you. Here you can sample the exotic lunch menu (focaccia — so European! so hip!) and ignore the adult contemporary music while admiring the quirky, trendy art soon-to-be decorating the walls.

Atmosphere aside, you can get a damn good cup of coffee here, especially if you go for the flavored kinds. The standard variations on plain old coffee (cappuccino-espresso-mocha-latte-crappe) are pretty much what you would expect, and you can mix and match them to suit your taste.

The light pastry and sandwich fare, also a prerequisite for the 90s coffeehouse, complements the coffees well and makes for a nice lunch when you want a change of pace.

But if you’re looking for a real coffeehouse — the kind of place where Flo the waitress fills your cup without asking and teases the horny truckers — leave your Birkenstocks at home and head straight for the nearest Waffle House. You'll find me in the corner booth with the cancerous cloud above my head.

MY SECRET BUSINESS

Kiki Smith's photography is on exhibit in the Visual Arts Center from January 18th through February 26th. “Prints and Multiples” is a traveling exhibition organized by the Barbara Krakow Gallery in Boston.

Dance Troupe renders a classic tale

By Laura LEIBFREID
Staff Writer

As a kid, I remember sitting in front of the old-fashioned record player in jazz oxfords, leg warmers, and jelly bracelets, listening entranced to the lyrical tones of Peter and the Wolf. Little did I know at that age that I was hearing David Bowie’s crisp British narrative over Sergei Prokofiev’s playful orchestral composition. What do kids care about technicalities? I imitated the Bird’s sing-song voice, chirping “All is quiet! All is quiet!” I sighed with relief when the Duck came back to life as the Duck Angel. And most importantly, I envied Peter’s courageous capture of the wolf.

Senior Davidson Dance Troupe member Carrie Harris also remembers the magic of Peter and the Wolf. Inspired by a high school production of the piece, Harris tackled the task of choreographing her own rendition of Peter and the Wolf for Davidson’s troupe. It is Carrie’s intention that proceeds from the production will be donated to the Ada Jenkins Center to enable the purchase of new calculators and encyclopedias for their tutoring program.

The story of Peter and the Wolf is set in a fantastical woodland landscape. Peter, played by Harris, lives with his grandfather (Mary Elise Brumfield) in the forest. The Bird, the Cat, and the Duck (played by Shannon Simmons, Sarah Holden, and Erin Steffensmeier) joust and frolic together, often with Peter as their companion. Until one day, echoing the grandfather’s warnings, an evil grey Wolf (Laura Leibfreid) enters their domain. The other animals shiver with fright, and even the hunters (Sandra Symes and Brooks Chappelle) are frozen with fear. But not valiant Peter! He succeeds in catching the Wolf by the tail with a lasso made of rope, earning the admiration of his grandfather, the woodland animals, and even the Wolf!

Harris’ rendition of Peter and the Wolf brought the tale we all imagined as children to life. Her choreography captured each animal’s personality and character, leaving the audience spellbound.

Attention
Sophomores

Applications are now being distributed for the Edward Crosland Stuart Scholarship Program. Stuart Scholars receive grants of $10,000 for the junior year, renewable for the senior year, plus funding for an internship during the summer between the junior and senior years.

Pick up your application from Ms. Brenda King in Chambers 111. Completed applications are due back in that office no later than Monday, February 9.

DUTIES INCLUDE:
Provide administrative, clerical and physical assistance in housing Summer Conferences, both athletic and educational, in-house and non-Davidson sponsored groups

Assist with Residence Life Office duties such as mailings, RCR’s, keys, etc.

Serve as Resident Advisor for summer students in Flowe

Be on-call as scheduled for Conferences and as Resident Advisor

SKILLS REQUIRED:
Ability to plan ahead and anticipate needs and problems
Dependable, punctual and flexible
Self-starter
Administrative ability (attention to details)
Effective communicator with pleasant personality

QUALIFICATIONS:
WILLING TO WORK HOLIDAYS, NIGHTS, AND WEEKENDS AS NEEDED THROUGHOUT THE SUMMER!
Must not be enrolled in summer academic classes
Must have experience living in college housing and reside in Flowe

BENEFITS:
Summer housing included at no charge
$6.50 per hour/40 hours per week guaranteed
$400 declining balance at Campus Network

PINCHING PENNIES ALREADY?

LOOKING FOR A SUMMER JOB?

THE RESIDENCE LIFE OFFICE WILL HIRE FOUR CONFERENCE ASSISTANTS FOR MAY 20th-AUGUST 9th. APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE IN RLO ON JANUARY 22ND. DEADLINE TO APPLY IS FEBRUARY 9TH.