THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1996

HOP, SKIP, By KATE GREENE & JASON SCHMIDT Staff Writers

Students, eager to see the band Jump Little Children, began showing up on Richardson Field at 8 o'clock and were
then presented with a full hour to kill. A miscommunication between advertisements, the band, and the Union Board led to
this dreadfully long wait that was finally resolved with a starting time of 9 p.m.

After cutting a deal for more staff t-shirts in exchange for a red tablecloth found on the premises of Johnston
Gym, Matt Bivins, the miscellaneous musician, made a startling entrance on the shoulders of his fellow band members as Super
Matt. Having captured the crowd’s reluctant attention, the show was off to a start with their tune, “Dark and Lonely
Man.”

With over 900 students in attendance throughout the night, the show was undoubtedly a success for the College Union. While
many students left before the final songs, the crowd at the end remained totally devoted to the stage and musical
presence of the band. The band’s demands for the students to dance were never denied; the crowd and the band
could be felt and seen jumping up and down with total enthusiasm.

Student opinions about the show varied. Senior Morgan Todd proclaimed, “Those boys are sassy!” A Union tech assistant remarked that
they performed with the aura of high school students. Junior Sanders Hearne said that the harmonica was not as good
as he expected. Sophomore Bradley Oliver questioned whether the band had reached the realm of the much-acclaimed sounds of Phish.
One agreement amongst reviewers was the abrupt close of the show. Students and band members alike were relishing in the
musical and physical energy. When the face of the sound director was seen at the edge of the stage distracting
the bassist midway through a song, the revelry was cut short. Apparently, the College Police were determined to enforce the
sound curfew. A mild encore of “Johnny Jump-Up” ended the show on a less than energetic note.

Before this disappointing finish, the band played their classic “Opium,” one of the few pieces that has less of a
top-40 feel. Grabbing the crowd’s attention with the clear line, “do you smoke opium, he said,” the crowd was hurtled
into dancing heaven as Evan, the drummer, expanded the varied rhythms of the song. The other members each took a
turn with a solo, drawing out the song to the delight of the crowd. We both felt that this song
allowed the musicians to actually explore their musical talent rather than just perform in a standard format. We felt that
most of their other songs were in standard formats, such as “Dancing Virginia,” their most popular song. Another sound that
the band interspersed within these formats was the rap-like, G Love-esque sound of such songs as “U Can Look.” Although
it was not totally spontaneous, it did have a more heartfelt performance than some of the other songs. Matt, the
miscellaneous musician, added his sexy aura.to the lyrics of the song. Musically, Jump, Little Children still lacked originality, but the
beat kept the crowd swaying. Overall, their show lent itself quite well to small venues and college shows. Musical talent
did not abound but performance aura unfailingly enticed the crowd. Hopefully, Jump, Little Children will return to Davidson for another
crowd-riling show, since they claimed that the Davidson College atmosphere was the best college show that they had ever played.

Lupie’s from page 10

I did my best to finish the feast, but my biggest problem actually turned out to be fitting the burger
into my mouth, for it was stacked with fixings over a large slab of beef. At the end of the
repast, everyone was satiated, and all were glad that we had made the trek down to Charlotte for some real
food. I would recommend this culinary experience to all of you, even lettuce-munchers disgusted by the phrase “slab of beef,”
for Lupie’s can satisfy a range of appetites. And if it can satiate me, a man who once consumed 13
sloppy joes in a single sitting, you can probably assume that you will leave with a pleasantly full feeling in
your belly.

Enjoy

HOURS
Lunch: T-S 11-3
892-3800

THE CHAIR FACTORY

MONDAY
Juggling with Bill Giduz livens up the Union in the Morrison Room 7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java starts your week off right in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. Freshmen: it’s the only place
you can go on the Court, so take advantage of the late night caffeine! Jumpin’ Java provides you with your
second (at least) caffeine fix of the day in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.
Coffeehouse sells coffee and doughnuts in the 900 Room: 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.

WEDNESDAY
The Volunteer Fair is the best way to join in campus activities. You now have no excuse not to get
involved! Chambers Gallery 6 p.m. - 8 p.m.
The Usual Suspects provides a study break in the 900 Room 9:30 p.m.
The Crop Lunch serves up excellent food in the 900 Room 11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m.

FRIDAY
Coffeehouse helps you through the last day of classes in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.
The Global Prints Sale offers more ways to decorate your room on the College Union Patio 9 a.m. - 5
p.m.
The Usual Suspects fills up that empty space before the parties start. Watch it again, you’ll catch more details, but
don’t reveal the end.
Saturday Night Live is full of laughs in the 900 Room 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.
The annual 50’s dance is twisting at Vail Commons 8 p.m. - 10 p.m. Wear your poodle skirt and look
out for RenElvis, the only Filipino Elvis impersonator in the U.S.

Jumpin’ Java is jumpin’ once again in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Go see RENELVIS and PRC sing on Saturday at the annual 50’s dance. It’s not an event to miss!
