THE DAVIDSONIAN

_NEWS

MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1996 5

Registrar cites “human error” in schedule mix-up

By Asa HERCULES

Staff Writer

A short time after Fall class schedules had been mailed home to students, an enrollment roster revealed that there were
“full” classes with no students in them — and many Davidsonians were surprised to find that they were locked out
of their first choice classes.

With a corrected schedule mailed two weeks later, many students began questioning the computerized registration system.

The glitch, according to Registrar Polly Griffin, was due to human error. In the spring, the ceilings of some classes,
including sections of Organic Chemistry, were “artificially reduced to test the CATS Line telephone system,” said Griffin.

This test allowed the Registrar’s Office to simulate a “closed” class, or a class that had the maximum number of
students, without that class actually being full.

When it was discovered that the simulation was never reversed, and that the computer still thought the classes were full,
the problem was immediately corrected, and “in order to be fair, we ran the whole thing over,” said Griffin.

Nan Morefield, also a junior, reports that although she still plans to go through Drop/Add, “It [the new schedule] allowed
me to get two classes that I really needed for my major, and that I didn’t get the first time.”

The CATS Line is now fully operational.

94-95 yearbooks in after long delays

By RANDY HARTWELL
Associate News Editor

When 1995 Quips & Cranks Editor-in-Chief Amy Liz Betz opens her editorial letter with “Eventually the age-old ‘why me’ question
appears in everyone’s life,” one has some idea of the extent of her anguish in producing a yearbook. After long
delays in publishing, the annual which documents the 1994-95 school year is available in the Union.

Betz and other Q & C staffers blame the unusually long wait on a lack of committed staff members.

“I expected that some people would flake out because it happens every year and hey, life goes on,” Betz writes.
“What I soon realized is that yes, people do drop their responsibilities at the last minute, but life goes on
for everyone except me.”

Still, Betz is pleased with the finished product and said that “I’m really glad it’s done and I think it
turned out really well. What has made it worthwhile is that I’ve bumped into people... who said it was well
worth the wait and that they were so excited about it. Just hearing stuff like that made me happy and
I hope [this edition of Q & C] encourages freshmen to get involved.”

But while good things may come to those who wait, some students say the delay makes them question the wisdom
of paying up front for a yearbook they may not receive for several years.

Those who have doubts about the capability of the incoming Q & C staff needn’t worry; co-editors Shelley Elifson and
Kerry Albright have already sent many page layouts to Quips & Cranks’ publisher, Wadsworth Publishing, and expect the 1995-96 yearbook
to arrive sometime in November.

Good luck in that finite math class, freshmen!

EMBROIDERY

est. 1981

Monogramming & Embroidery Specialist

Promotional Apparel - Events - Large & Small Orders
Special Feature: Lost Art Manual Monogramming

Special: Buy 2 beach towels get a third one free! (monogramming included)

Cathy B. Guthrie
Artist/Embroiderer/Designer
P.O. Box 1314
19900 South Main Street #7
Cornelius, NC 28031

(704) 896-0090 FAX (704) 896-0711

CLASS OF A NEW

SHIRTS BY STEVE AND MATT

Stephen Palicz, a Davidson alumnus (1994), now attends Duke Divinity School. He started designing shirts after a lifelong friend of
his, Matthew Hall, a computer graphics major at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, designed them together.

Top 10 Reasons to Buy Shirts from Steve

1. Shirts are 100% cotton. Quality stuff here.
2. Shirts by Steve are politically neutral.
3. The designs are cool and unique to Davidson.
4. Convenient to buy. You already go to the P.O.
5. No arm-twisting, intimidating sales tactics (hassle-free wear!).
6. Great gift idea for the ‘rents.
7. Shirts are available in various sizes. No more shirts with room for two.
8. All products are 100% spam-free.

Send a check to Stephen Palicz. You will be received. Please allow 6 to 8 weeks for delivery. Orders after
October 5 will be refused and returned.
