12 THE DAVIDSONIAN _ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1996

Street By Dorcas AND ANGRY CHILD | Consulting Astrologists

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21)— Despite its ubiquitous nature, egg nog (the more familiar term: “nog”) should be avoided like the
scourge it is. If you find yourself singing the phrase “See the blazing yule before us,” then end it all.
Unlucky People: People that make you go to another office to write the horoscope.

Capricorn (December 22-January 19)— Make a poultice to ease the pain of writing/reading this horoscope. It is not funny because
Dorcas is in a foul temper. If your dog has distemper, I am sorry. Active ingredient: the ground genitalia of
one Sports Editor. Inactive ingredients: Feverwort and Yellow #5.

Aquarius (January 20-February 18)— Try to think of food that you should beg the commons to serve. Think of goulash,
Welsh rarebit, ragouts, and birds’ nest soup. Lucky Question: “What is Welsh rarebit?” Most Common answer: “I don’t know.”

Pisces (February 19-March 20)— Make a dreidel out of clay. When it’s dry and ready, dreidel you will play. Lucky
Song: Dreidel - Dreidel Dreidel, I made it out of clay. Lucky pentameter: iambic.

Aries (March 21-April 20)— Fashion of yore is back. For the lady, pinafores. For the gentleman, doublets. These creations are
available at the finger-on-the-pulse-of-Davidson “boutique” of Frankly My Dear™.

Taurus (April 21-May 20)— This week, concentrate on condom distribution. Lucky style: Ribbed, for her pleasure. Lucky toe: mistle.

Gemini (May 21-June 20)— Davidson merchants are a grange organization. Break through their cartel and revel in your newfound glory.
Perpetually, Pervasively and Petulantly Unlucky locus: The Marshall Case Company.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)— You will have a fabulous week, let me tell you. Lucky Place: Davidson.

Leo (July 23-August 22)— Be careful of some draconian grandfather clauses in the honor code. Be very careful. Best form
of government: gynarchy.

Virgo (August 23-September 22)— There is a dangerous gypsy cab service operating in Davidson. Be warned that they travel in
unmarked cars of the color “phoenix green.” (many will see these cars as turquoise) These cars are illegal, but convenient.
Pick-up: laundry parking lot, after 5 p.m., can be solicited by yelling “Hey, green machine.”

Libra (September 23-October 22)— Think about bee-keeping as a stress-free activity. You'll probably get stung. Lucky phrase: “Honey comb’s big,
yeah, yeah, yeah. It’s not small, no, no, no!”

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)— When on your holiday, think about if you would like to write this horoscope. Free money
from Dorcas to those who commit. CELEBRATE YOURSELF.

PASTA COMPANY
Beg that CARRY OUT DELIVERY DINE-IN 896-8333
* Alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages available. Featuring the best Import and Domestic beers and a full line of wines including
Chardonnay, Cabernet, and Merlot.
* We deliver full meals including all alcoholic beverages.
* FREE delivery. Limited delivery area. $10 Minimum Delivery.
* Major Credit Cards Accepted.
HOURS: 11:30-9 Mon. - Thur. 11:30-10 Fri. - Sat. Closed Sunday
I-77, Exit 28, Norman Crossing Shopping Center
10% off any pasta combo with student I.D. thru 3/31/97

Frank T. Bencini ’78 died of AIDS April, 1985.

Zack — from page 11
...als quite well. In the memo he wrote about his memorial service, Zach requested that it be a ‘joyous celebration
of life.’ He specifically asked for all the music and scripture (Romans 8:31-39) used in today’s service....”

“Zach held to his faith in the power of God’s love throughout his terrible suffering. And the way Zach’s faith
most revealed itself was in his unwavering commitment to his relationships with those for whom he cared....Zach reveled in his
relationships with all of us—and somehow in his gracious, Southern gentleman style, made each of us feel special.”

Zach loved and served Davidson College and the larger community, and we are all the better for his efforts. But
it is the many lives that his friendship touched that feel...his loss the most. His surviving aunts (Mrs. Helen Follett
of Southern Pines and Mrs. Helen Snead of Rockingham), family, friends in Rockingham, the Davidson alumni who knew him—especially the
class of 1965 for whom he served as class secretary—the college’s faculty and staff who worked with him, and his
friends in California and Davidson are diminished by his death. Yet all of these and more were enriched by his
life. When Zach visited Davidson, he stayed with Scotty and Pete Nicholls. They first knew him as a student when
Scotty was director of student housing and Pete was the manager of the Student Store. Scotty told me that throughout
the years, his affection for the people of Davidson never changed. “Davidson was his home place.” It is hard to
imagine Davidson without Zach Long. Perhaps we do not have to because we will always have Zach in our hearts.

Movies from page 11

With the sentence, “With a gasp you realize what movies can be.” A reader of this article will most likely
feel that this is hyperbole at its worst, but one who has seen the movie will understand where these gushing
words come from. The movie is a masterpiece. A wartime epic, Ralph Fiennes gives a poetic performance as Count Lazlo
de Almasy. He is scarred beyond recognition in the present tense and gorgeously cool in his deluded and wistful flashbacks
of his affair with Kristen Scott Thomas. The cinematography and setting give you Lawrence of Arabia all over again. It
is a bit long, but you will find yourself never wanting it to end.
Grade: A
-MCJ

101 Dalmatians: Skip the movie; see the cartoon version.

I grew up, I must admit, loving the 101 Dalmatians. It was truly my favorite cartoon. So, when I heard
the movie was coming out, I was excited. Cruella De Vil, with her black and white hair and frightening screeches—“You
idiots”—would be back on screen and fleshed out by Glenn Close. When I saw the movie, I was disappointed. The
dogs don’t talk—a poor directorial choice (Hey, it worked in Babe; take a hint.); Roger (Jeff Daniels) and Anita (Joely
Richardson) are a bore; the dog thieves, Horace (Mark Williams) and Jasper (Hugh Laurie), were purely slapstick; and Cruella, although
well acted, was cut flat by a poor script—lots of cackles don’t make up for good lines. The movie, quite
simply, was made purely to be a big money maker. My suggestion is to skip the movie, take a little
time to get in touch with your childhood, and watch the original cartoon.
Grade: B
-IC

At the Clubs
Music in two hours or less
COMPILED BY CLAY COFER

Monday, Dec. 9
Double Door: Les Moore, Jim Brock, Rick Blackwell, Johnny Alexander, Charles Hairston, Joe Linsey
Irish Cue (Cornelius): Scoot & John

Tuesday, Dec. 10
Amos’: Leah Andreone
Coyote Joe’s (country): Vic Rorrer & The No Name Band
Double Door: Doubting Thomas
Mythos: College night - Techno
Pterodactyl: 80’s Dance night

Wednesday, Dec. 11
Amos’: Acoustic Jam
Comedy Zone: Mike Wilson
Club 2000: College night Dance
Coyote Joe’s (country): Vic Rorrer & The No Name Band
Jack Straw’s: Jasmine Attic
Ovens Auditorium: Harry Connick, Jr., & His Funk Band
Rainbow Deli, Cornelius: Brothers from Mothers - Acoustic

Thursday, Dec. 12
Baha: Retro 80’s dance night
Comedy Zone: Mike Wilson
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance

Friday, Dec. 13
Comedy Zone: Mike Wilson
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance (1/2 off before 11pm)
Tremont: Jonathan Fire Eater/Electro-Luxe

Saturday, Dec. 14
Baha: Dance (No Cover Before 10:00)
Comedy Zone: Mike Wilson
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance (1/2 off before 11pm)
Tremont: Spite/Ublisch/5X Down/Sunshine

Sunday, Dec. 15
Comedy Zone: Mike Wilson
Double Door: Les Moore and Friends
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Free dance lessons at 8:30pm (Salsa & Merengue!)
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance (1/2 off before 11pm)

Have a Merry X-mas.
