THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

(Standing l-r) Victoria McGovern (biology), James Najera (English), Debra Fisher (art), Dave Robb (philosophy), Tim Waples (English), Kristi Multhaup (psychology), Durwin Striplin (chemistry), Martha Montello (English and Medical Humanities), Mark Byrnes (history), Mary Vasquez (Spanish); (seated, l-r) Peter Sheldon (physics), Judy Kalb (Russian), Suzette Polson (chemistry), Brenda Flanagan (English).

Courtesy of College Relations

New freshman hall created in Cannon

By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
News Editor

Prepared to spend the school year below ground, eight upperclassmen received a lucky phone call this summer.

Residence Life Office (RLO) staff contacted each of this year’s basement Cannon residents with news that their sunlight-deprived underground quarters had been transformed. Students who, after last spring’s housing lottery, found themselves scheduled to live in Cannon’s basement rooms now reside in one of Davidson’s most sought-after residences: the Manse.

A veritable palace, the Concord Street Manse has three sunrooms, a full kitchen which boasts a brand new refrigerator, as well as furnished living and dining rooms. However, even the Manse was not immune to initial setbacks. “We didn’t have beds the first night [I moved in],” said April Edlin, a sophomore. That night four students who arrived on campus early shared two available mattresses. According to Edlin, the next night temporary beds had been provided, and within several days each bedroom was equipped with lofts.

By late last November, said Kurt Holmes, Director of Residence Life, RLO had already published and reserved freshman rooms based on the Admission Office’s enrollment goal for the Class of 2000. At 442 freshmen, the incoming class is almost exactly the target size which Davidson’s Admissions Office hoped to enroll this year, said Leonard Satterwhite, Senior Associate Dean of Admission and Financial Aid. RLO scrambled to come up with solutions to the housing crunch. Options which surfaced over the summer included converting dorm lounges into dorm rooms, using Johnston Gym as a temporary barracks, and breaking with tradition to make Belk a co-ed building.

Freshman Alex Oregon, who shares basement Cannon’s only triple, described her room as a bit more cluttered than those of her hallmates. “It’s not bad,” Oregon said of her situation, noting that while RLO provided extra furniture, the room’s three inhabitants will have to make do with closet space for two.

IVCF

from page 1

However, two years ago when an abstinent homosexual student was discouraged by an IVCF staff member from submitting his application for IVCF leadership, Davidson College administration asked IVCF to outline its leadership requirements to avoid similar incidents in the future.

Just minutes before the 33 members present at the April 30 SGA meeting confronted IVCF’s appeal, the Senate voted to take steps to avoid future confusion and controversy. Many felt that the SGA by-laws regarding charter requirements were not specific enough to warrant denying IVCF’s charter.

The senators adopted the following resolution to be incorporated in the SGA by-laws: “... the Senate of Davidson College does hereby condemn discrimination based on ‘race, color, religion, national origin, age, disability, sex [and] sexual orientation except where appropriate and allowed by law’ ... the Senate of Davidson College in no action that it has taken this year or will take in the future intends to condone discrimination based solely on the factors listed above.”

MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1996

3

NEW PROFESSORS

1630 hours
Larceny from building—Baker Sports Complex
$178 taken from Men’s Locker Room

7/30/96
0843 hours
Traffic accident on Baker Sports Drive in front of Baker Sports Complex.
Basketball camper struck on left leg by 1991 Volvo sedan while crossing Baker Sports Drive. Subsequent diagnosis and X-rays showed the injury as a bruise.

7/31/96
0700 hours
Burglary—non-forced entry into Irwin 109.
Unknown person(s) entered secured room and stole 2 electric drills belonging to contractors.

8/8/96
0730 hours
Burglary—non-forced entry into Akers and Irwin Halls
Unknown person(s) using unknown means entered buildings and removed 1 reciprocator saw w/ case, 1 unishear and 2 3/8 inch drills at an estimated value of $900.

Welcome Back!

A European style coffeehouse serving
- Espresso - Cappuccino
- Caffe Latte & Italian Sodas

Now serving beer and wine!
Daily Lunch Specials!

Weekdays 7am-10pm
Weekends 9am-12pm; Sun 9am-10pm
Live Entertainment on Weekends!
Blowing Rock & Davidson, NC

704.896.3915

THE CHAIR FACTORY

The Duchess Nail, Hair & Tanning Salon

Full service salon for women & men

"Best Prices in Town"

Nails:
- manicures
- pedicures
- acrylic
- gels
- tips
- fiberglass

Facial Waxing
Contact Diane
892-1633

Hair:
- precision cuts
- perms

DAVIDSON STUDENTS
$10.00 CUTS!

Diane: 892-1633
Trudy: 895-8012

Tanning:
"Hottest Bulbs in Town"
$4.00 per session
$33.00 for 10 sessions
$43.00 for 15 sessions
$50.00 for 20 sessions

RedKen Hair Products & more...

Located 1/2 mile south of Davidson College Campus
20700 N. Main St.
892-7030

We are looking for sophomores or juniors to join editorial news staff. Call John or Mary Clare —2148