THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS

FACULTY VOICE
Annie Merrill Ingram
Assistant Professor of English

Free and Easy

You know it’s important to recycle, right? You know how precious and fragile our environment is, right? You know that
paper, glass, aluminum, cardboard, plastic, scrap metal, and other materials can be recycled, right? So, do the right thing, right
now: RECYCLE.

In case your imagination or resourcefulness has temporarily left the building, here are some free & easy tips for how
to incorporate recycling into your daily routine:

1. USE THE BINS. Believe me, students already think I’m wacky enough — but when I start scrounging through the
trash bins in classrooms in Chambers for recyclables, they know things have gotten out of hand. Don’t throw away that
glass juice bottle or coke can — recycle it!

2. RECYCLE IN YOUR ROOM OR OFFICE. Recycling bins are conveniently located throughout campus — so there’s no good excuse
for throwing a recyclable away. Find a box or bag to collect recyclables in, then periodically visit the appropriate recycling
bin.

3. LOOK AT THAT PAPER PILE UP! Faculty, staff, and students, how many flyers, memos, reminder notices, etc. do you
get each day? How many do you throw in the trash? You can recycle more than just newspaper! Find a
small box and place it next to your wastebasket for recycling all kinds of paper (including junk mail). Bins are
conveniently located throughout campus for recycling both white and colored paper. The Environmental Action Committee regularly combs campus for expired
flyers on colored paper, which we make into colorful 5-1/2 by 8-1/2 notepads. Call me at 892-2487 if I can
pick up your colored recyclables.

4. PRACTICE SMART PHOTOCOPYING. Use the duplex (double-sided) option whenever possible. Make only as many copies as you need. If
you are making multiple copies of a half-page (or quarter-page) memo or assignment, print several to a page and then
cut them.

5. REUSE PAPER BEFORE YOU RECYCLE IT. (This may seem like an advanced step for you novice recyclers, but it’s
really easy.) Use the blank side of white and colored paper to print drafts, write lists, doodle while you’re on
the phone, take class notes, write letters home, keep a journal, practice your origami.

6. RECYCLE CARDBOARD, TOO. You can recycle any kind of corrugated cardboard: pizza boxes, packages from home, book boxes, and
mailers from publishers. Some of these might make excellent recycling bins for your room or office, too!

These are just a few of the many things you can do every day to improve your recycling habits. I’m
amazed at how many people know the importance of recycling yet do little or nothing to recycle the materials they
use. Perhaps it’s just a matter of not having integrated recycling into your everyday habits. But with some simple behavior
modification, you can help reduce the waste that goes to landfills, cut back on paper production instead of cutting down
trees, and save energy and money, too. What are you waiting for?

Minors
Open communication is a necessity for achieving the best possible outcome. We support the adoption of minors to open communication
lines with faculty and to discuss the benefits of minors with them. We urge faculty members to listen to our
voices and to consider the advantages of minors.

Sincerely,
Warren Buford, SGA President
Clair Freeman, SGA Vice President

If you don’t like it, write your own. Call Katie -2148.

Peter Hallenbeck
FEBRUARY 19, 1996

Different take on “Proving Faith”

After reading Eric Sapp’s article entitled “Proving Faith” last week in The Davidsonian, I thought it only appropriate to provide
a response, since there were several points that I found somewhat troubling.

The first problem I have is with Eric’s various examples of facts that Rob Vogelbacher supposedly takes for granted, such
as the earth being round, carbon being the basic element, and stars being huge balls of gas burning millions of
miles away. He assumes that Rob, “like the rest of us, most probably doesn’t understand and couldn’t ‘prove’ any of
the answers I assumed he would give.” Eric then proceeds to state that this information has been learned via teachers
and books and has been accepted purely on faith. Now, one problem I have is Eric’s equating scientific facts and
accepting God both as matters of faith.

In my handy Webster’s Collegiate dictionary, I found a definition of faith as, “a firm belief in something for which
there is no proof.” You could perform a scientific experiment such as trying to prove that the earth is round.
If you execute this experiment a thousand times, it is going to have the same result. Such experimentation leads to
the notion of a law. If one tries to prove the existence of God, he or she is inevitably going
to fail. In a scientific experiment, one proceeds with the...data, analyzes these data, comes to a conclusion, and, finally, a
theory. A theory that has been proven over and over again is a law. Simply because one does not understand
the data involved does not mean that one must accept the theory or law on faith. The point is that
if one desired to test out whether the earth is round, he or she could. There is no such process
in proving God. Herein, faith enters the equation. Eric also points out that if Rob had any questions about God,
he could “talk to a pastor or look in the most popular book in the world, where one will find
dozens of first-person accounts of people who have ‘discovered’ God.” Well, I imagine you could talk to mentally deranged people
who are certain that they are having a first-hand account in “discovering” dragons or unicorns. Does that mean that they
exist? My point is to show that having faith in the existence of (a) God is exactly that: having faith.
Faith is a wonderful, mystical, and inexplicable phenomenon that guides the lives of some, yet is devoid in the lives
of others. Faith in God is putting one’s complete trust and confidence in whatever one’s conception of that word means,
whether it be a personally involved God, a Deistic God, an energy life force common to all things, or whatever.
No one can “prove” that God exists any more than anyone can “prove” that one form of God exists over
another. Finally, that “Einstein’s claim that mass can turn into energy requires just as much faith as Matthew’s claim that
Jesus healed a blind man” simply is false. Simply because a majority of people cannot understand the workings of this
theory does not mean that it requires faith to believe it. Einstein’s E=MC² theory can be proven and indeed is
not that difficult to understand with a certain knowledge of physics. Jesus’ healing of a blind man cannot. Whether one
chooses to acknowledge the veracity of that parable is up to one’s faith, “a firm belief in something for which
there is no proof.” Faith is indeed a mysterious phenomenon which, as Søren Kierkegaard stated, “no thought can grasp because
faith begins precisely where thinking leaves off.”

Katie McKelvie

Whew, isn’t it hot? Now, the issue of North/South differences can get a bit hairy (especially for us carpetbagger-Yankee-types) but
at times it actually can be quite amusing. Take the discussion I had while being interviewed for a job last
Friday. “What, Ms. McKelvie, as a Northerner, do you see as the main differences between the South and the North?”
Fabulous. Not only have I already been flailing beyond all help in this interview but of course then I get
thrown this whopper of a question. What to say? First, I tried the cocktail party answer I’ve recycled to Southern
parents here for four years: the weather is just so great and aren’t the people just so nice and isn’t
it refreshing to walk down the street and be greeted with a how are you by a perfect stranger... blech.
It was no use. The interviewer man, probably with roots so deep in the South he resented NC for its
scurrilous Yankee name, shot holes through my superficial answer with his unrelenting, beady interviewer eyes. And then it came to
me. It was the highways. No, not the asphalt itself, but the collection of billboards and landmarks on the adjacent
stretches of land. The big Gaffney peach. The giant illuminated red cross constantly reminding the people of Greenville that “Jesus
Saves.” The old cardboard signs advertising boiled peanuts. It was Pedro telling me to exit immediately to purchase South of
the Border bumper stickers. It was Stuckey’s blue billboards and Jimmy Carter’s petting zoo. It was a giant sign near
the North/South Carolina border that warned all of us drivers that “Those who reject Jesus are on the path to
hell (whew, isn’t it hot?)” The scary interviewer looked at me like I had nine heads and zero brains but
I was on a roll. In other parts of the country, I continued, the stretches of road are enclosed by
endless strip malls of predictable chains of restaurants and stores. Sure the South has its share of Walmarts and Wendy’s
but it also has room for more one-of-a-kind oddities. And that’s the main difference between the North and the South.
And I think that’s a pretty great thing. He looked at me for a second. Then, in true scary interviewer
style, he looked down at his scary interviewer pad and scribbled something probably along the lines of “get this scary
psycho chick out of my office stat.” And whew, was it hot.
