THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1996

From the archives ... Grave-robbing at Davidson medical school?

Alumnus Brotherton wins award for article

By ALLISON DOLPH
Staff Writer

Many students come to Davidson with the intention of someday going to medical school. However, not too many people know that there once was a medical school right here. In his recent article “Grave Robbing - An Unusual Avocation,” local writer Ken Brotherton uncovers Davidson Medical College’s ghoulish past.

The limitation of resources at a small college like Davidson is not a novel problem. At the turn of the twentieth century, Davidson had difficulty securing a supply of cadavers for its medical students. The solution? Grave robbing.

The article details the various exploits engaged in by a student named Sam Thompson in search of cadavers. Apparently, Thompson would arrange to transport the corpses from the cemetery to the College in the middle of the night. Once, when spotted by a passerby, the driver pretended that the corpse slumped in the back of his carriage was an inebriated man: “Come on and sit up now! You’re not that drunk!”

The College was even the subject of a lawsuit when a local man recognized his father’s skull on a windowsill. Brotherton’s description of Davidson’s grave robbing past and the other articles in his Lake Norman Series earned him the prestigious D.T. Smithwick Newspaper and Magazine Article Award. The award was presented to him last month at the 55th annual meeting of the North Carolina Society of Historians.

Make next semester count for more than just your transcript. Write for The Davidsonian. Call Teresa or Randy, 2148.

Don’t forget to turn in your used books for cash in the bookstore.

Will Nolen

10/29/96 0100 hours
Larceny from building: E.H. Little Library
Sometime between 10/24/96 and 10/29/96, some unknown person(s) removed victim’s Macintosh Powerbook laptop computer from victim’s study carrel. Victim stated that he first noticed the computer gone several days earlier but thought someone was borrowing it. The computer was valued at $2000.

11/7/96 1300 hours
Larceny from building: E.H. Little Library
Unknown person(s) removed victim’s Macintosh Powerbook while victim left the library on an errand. When victim returned to the study area, the computer was gone along with a red North Face bookbag. Total value of stolen items was $2,660.

11/7/96 2100 hours
Larceny from building: E.H. Little Library
Between 1400 hours and 2100 hours on the above date, unknown person(s) removed victim’s black IBM notebook computer and her portable CD player. The items were unsecured and unattended at the time. The CD player also contained a CD bearing the title “Live.” Total value of items taken was $1,386.

11/7/96 2200 hours
Two witnesses reported having seen a black male and black female on the second floor of Little Library in the area of the stolen items. The couple was observed between 1100 and 1300 hours. Witness stated that the two had asked her about the photocopiers and where they were located.

11/9/96 0300 hours
Harassing telephone calls: Cannon dormitory
Victim stated that beginning Saturday, November 9, some unknown male has called her in her dorm room a total of six times. The caller asked for a subject that does not live at the victim’s address, then tried to strike up a conversation with the victim, saying that he was looking for a subject named Jason. The caller used the same routine the second time, this time asking for a subject named Ryan. The victim asked the caller if he had called before and he denied it. The caller phoned again, breathing hard and making noises. The victim hung up, but the caller phoned again. Again the victim hung up. He immediately called back and said nothing. Then, on November 18 at 0030 hours, a person called, said nothing, and the victim hung up.

11/9/96 2200 hours
Harassing phone calls: Duke dormitory
Victim stated that she had started receiving harassing phone calls from an unknown male subject during the week of October 21. According to the victim, the caller, who knew her by name, would call and ask questions and make heavy breathing sounds, or other times, would call and hang up. The calls have continued over a period of time with the most recent.on November 9 between 2000 and 2200 hours. Victim could not identify caller by voice.

11/16/96 1935 hours
Harassing telephone calls: Cannon dormitory
Victim stated that an unknown male called her room and spoke to her on the telephone. The victim was talking on the phone when her call-waiting beeped, indicating an off-campus call. When she answered, a male made sexually explicit statements, followed by groaning sounds. He called three more times, successively. Each time the caller groaned and breathed heavily before the victim hung up on him. The victim did tell the caller to stop phoning her.

11/16/96 2345 hours
Larceny from building: College Union
Victim reported that sometime between 2115 hours and 2345 hours unknown person(s) removed her unsecured and unattended bookbag from the main lobby of the student union. The total value of the bookbag and the items it contained was $273.

11/18/96 2325 hours
Harassing telephone calls: Cannon dormitory
Victim reported that she had received a harassing phone call. No one spoke, but the person calling sounded like an adult male who was breathing heavily. Victim listened for several seconds and then hung up the receiver.

11/21/96 0315 hours
Aggravated assault: PAX House, Patterson Court
Sometime between 0300 hours and 0338 hours, a Davidson student was assaulted while staying with a friend at the PAX house by her ex-boyfriend, who is not a Davidson student. Victim stated that she wanted to break up with her former boyfriend, and when she told him over the phone, he hung up on her. Sometime later, the victim’s roommate told her that she had received a call from the ex-boyfriend that he was in Durham and on his way to Davidson to pay her a visit. Victim decided to stay with friends in PAX to avoid a visit with him. Around 0330 hours, the victim thought she heard a noise on the porch. When she opened the door to investigate, a male grabbed her arm and began to assault her. He struck the victim in the stomach and struck her head against the back area of PAX. He then dragged her out to the yard area and stuffed dirt in her mouth. The assailant then disappeared in an unknown direction. At the time of the report, no warrant for the assailant’s arrest had been obtained.

11/22/96 0730 hours
Damage to property: Football practice field
Reports at 0800 hours that damage had been done to the football field behind Baker Sports Complex. The signpost behind the complex had also been damaged. The turf had deep ruts cut into it by what appeared to be a vehicle’s spinning tires. Reports on this date that several fields and traffic signs were damaged by a vehicle. The IMAC field and a portion of the golf course were damaged. The firing range of Dunmurray Road and Highway 115 was damaged. Several state “No Parking” signs and poles along Martin Court were damaged. After tracing the owner of a truck which possibly was used, the owner confessed he and a friend had done the damage while riding around. Damage estimates are $1400 to $1500.

12/5/96 1000 hours
Possession of controlled substances
Via telecom, officer was contacted in reference to an unruly white male on the fourth floor of Belk dormitory. Complainant explained that there was a white male running all over the place, yelling and talking out of his head, as though he were crazy or on drugs. Officer proceeded to the third floor of Belk dorm, where he made contact with the subject, who was moving down the hall very fast and yelling words and phrases that could not be understood. Officer had to use physical restraint to control the subject who had become combative. Officer had to place subject in restraints and transport him to the police office. Complainant called officer again to say that subject’s room was left with the door wide open and he observed a plastic bag of what appeared to be marijuana and three small vials, a small white patch and two sheets of notepad paper with writing that described how subject had taken hits of acid. Officer went to secure the room, where amounts of marijuana, LSD, and cocaine were confiscated. Medics had to be dispatched to transport subject to a medical facility.