THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1996

~The Davidsonian~
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
JAMES BERRY

Arts & Living Editor
CAROLINE BYNUM

Business Manager
MARY CLARE JALONICK

Asst. Arts & Living Editor
MARY TOWLES ALLISON

Photography Editor
JOSH GLAZER

Associate Editor
TERESA WHITE

Sports Editor
WILL BRADSHAW

Advertising Managers
BEN GRIFFIN
BONNER MEAD

News Editor
CATHERINE ANDERSON

Assistant Sports Editor
MICHAEL KRUSE

Assistant News Editors
NARESH NAGELLA
CHLOE BROOKE
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL

Circulation Manager
CARRIE BLACKBURN

Web Page Manager
SUSAN RUGGIERO

Opinions Editor
BRAD CHASE

Copy Editor
KATIE McKELVIE

JILL WILLIAMS

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Springtime In Davidson

LETTERS

Back Jack

To the Editors,

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at: http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Sometimes an event happens that makes all others seem small and pointless.

About family — As winter draws to a close and the sun slowly introduces itself to the green Chambers lawn, we continue with our Davidson routine. Weary freshmen, bored sophomores, stressed juniors, and nostalgic seniors are preoccupied with the year’s imminent close, churning out papers and thinking towards frolics, formals, and summer freedom. However, just a few blocks away, a family very close to the Davidson community is dealing with a tragic illness and emotional nightmares that they never thought they would have to face.

Little Jack Roberts may be too young to know what is happening to his body or why he must travel to Charlotte several times a week. He probably doesn’t know, either, that several people in his Davidson family met last week to mobilize a full-force effort to help him and his family. Everyone at Davidson is busy. However, these people have put him and his family first — rightfully and thankfully so. Let’s join them and try to forget our spring crunch for a little while. Offer to babysit. Buy Jack a gift. Give blood in his name. Have your marrow typed for others like him.

At Decision Davidson this weekend, prospectives from all parts of the world asked students and faculty why they should make Davidson home for the next four years. The common thread in the wide range of answers that they gave was, “Davidson is a family, we care about each other, we have an investment in the community.” So, let’s hold true to that, and give what we can to one of our kindred. He needs our help, and it is the very least we can do.

About openness

For years Davidson students have enjoyed mixing and mingling on the court, and we all want it to remain healthy. John Rogers (see article, page 8) is correct about some things. Yes, liability is a huge issue, and we must deal with it. Kegs will disappear, and that will solve most problems. Debating kegs is useless — but debating our alternatives is not. No kegs does not mean the end of the court. Such extreme acceptance of BYO, closed parties, and guest lists is what could mean the end of the court. The CCRL recommended that we ban kegs, but that was the only significant change that students will see (hopefully). The Trustees will likely accept this recommendation — they don't want to see the end of the Court either.

Rogers says: “My fraternity’s policy, doubtless similar to the others, prohibits kegs, open parties, and slush funds, among other evils.” Open parties are evils? Has our litigation-crazy society made any potentially liable situation an evil? He says, “Some people have raised noteworthy concerns, including potential increases in drunk driving and binge drinking. However, these concerns are not well founded.” He cites one statistic from Duke to prove this point. At the keg forum, someone responded to this argument with the fact that Duke not only eliminated kegs, they eliminated hard liquor and “round the world” shot parties at the same time. This is why the ER visits went down. All concerns about drunk driving are valid, no matter what the situation. Rogers is correct in asking Davidsonians to accept the inevitable, but if closed parties are truly the inevitable, then his passivity is frightening. Should a situation arise in which closed parties become a possibility, then Davidson students should fight against it — not for kegs or beer, not for wild nights, not for Patterson Court to be the center of Davidson social life — but for the principle that any Davidson student can go to a typical Davidson party. That single factor shapes what we are here for — whether we visit the Court or not.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.In comparison, this past week Jack McCarthy, son of Susan Roberts and Kevin McCarthy, was diagnosed with Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML), a type of leukemia most commonly found in adult patients. Jack and his parents are beloved members of the Davidson community. Every person that has ever seen Jack’s smile is concerned for his welfare and wants to help during this difficult time.

Susan and Kevin recently found out from their doctors that their other son, Cormac, is a bone marrow match for his little brother, opening the door for a bone marrow transplant. This is very good news and a first step in what will be a trying time for the family. The college has set up a voicemail update line so the family is not burdened with an overwhelming amount of calls as Jack’s status changes. The number is 892-2675. Both Kevin and Susan have e-mail, and this is a great way to send messages to them to let them know that we are all thinking of them.

Community members, staff members, students, and faculty are involved in planning stages of various events and support mechanisms to let Kevin, Susan, Cormac, and Jack know just how much they mean to this college and this community. Students who want to help can participate in a wide variety of events, organized by a support group called Jack’s Rabbits, made up of faculty, staff, and community members. Dean Williams has offered his office as a central communication center, and for further information, please call 892-2204.

As students, it is sometimes easy to ignore the world around us and become absorbed in our stress, our lives, and our friends. Often we don’t take time to reach out to others. This family needs our support both physically and emotionally. The following is a list of activities and gestures in the works to support Jack and his family. Please take time out and let this family see how much they mean to this community and specifically to the students of Davidson.

You Can Help “Back Jack” By Doing the Following:
- Volunteer for Child Care Assistance: Emily O’Brien (6634); Alexis DeVane (6617)
- Give blood “in honor” of Jack at the DCPC Blood Drive Saturday, April 20, 9 a.m.-1 p.m. (call 892-5641 for an appointment). Also, you can call the Charlotte Red Cross at 527-0313 to give blood anytime.
- Pray at the private meditation services for Jack in Lingle Chapel daily from 12 p.m.-1:15 p.m.
- Sign up for the Bone Marrow Drive on April 17 at a table in Chambers, or call 2185. (The actual drive will be on April 23 in the Gallery from 8 a.m.-5 p.m.)
- Attend the short service on Friday, April 19 at 5:15 p.m. in the Main Sanctuary of DCPC with other members of the Davidson Community, Jack’s priest, and his family.
- Bring gifts (tapes, videos, books) to “Jack’s Box” on the front porch of 560 Pine Road.
- Run in the Davidson Day Care Fun Run on Davidson Town Day, May 4.

Sincerely,
Emily O’Brien ‘96
Alexis DeVane ‘96

---

Frolicking Guidelines

To the Editors:

This year’s Spring Frolics will be a BYO BEER event. Below are the guidelines that you must follow in order to bring beer to Spring Frolics.

To all 21-year-olds:
1. Each person is allowed to bring 12 beers maximum inside the gates of Richardson Field during the event.
2. You may only enter once with beer — so if you bring six, that is how many you will have at the event. No glass allowed! Cans only!
3. You should bring your beer in your own cooler with your name printed on it. We will have ice at the field if you need it. There will be a few coolers that will be available on a first-come, first-serve basis.
4. Upon entrance to the field, you will take your beer to the designated serving area. At the area, you may receive one beer at a time (We will provide cups. You must use our cups). If you would like to share your beer with other 21-year-olds, this must be done at the serving area.

Some other notes about the event:
1. You will be able to come and go as you please. However, if you leave with your cooler, you will not be permitted to enter again with your beer.
2. 21-year-olds will be identified with a wristband which you will receive upon entrance to the field.
3. Your name will be written on your wristband at the entrance gate, and only you will be able to receive your beer. This is intended to keep your beer from mysteriously “disappearing.”

All of the rules follow the Davidson College BYO policy guidelines. Please comply with the rules so that we can all enjoy ourselves on the 19th. If you have any questions or concerns, please call me at 896-6185. Thank you.

DO NOT BRING OPEN CONTAINERS TO THE GATE! YOU WILL NOT BE PERMITTED TO ENTER WITH OPEN CONTAINERS!

Sincerely,
Mecie Beachem
Union Social VP