Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By J. Jay Hupson
Staff Writer

Last Monday night, Davidson College kicked off two days of festivities featuring the world-renowned pianist Robert Taub. The event began with a concert on Monday night, followed by a class lecture, a master class, and a performance/lecture, all focusing on Beethoven and his works. This fascination with Beethoven most likely stems from the pianist’s involvement in a project to record all of Beethoven’s piano sonatas and to write a book on them.

Robert Taub has performed with America’s premier symphony orchestras as well as premiered pieces by many modern American composers, particularly those of Milton Babbitt. The concert Monday night featured five Beethoven sonatas. The first three proved a mere warm-up for those of the second half. These more engrossing sonatas appeared to test the pianist’s abilities. Regardless, Taub performed masterfully, particularly in the last piece, Sonata in F Minor, opus 57. This piece featured a theme and variations in the second movement, moving progressively from quarter-note variations all the way to thirty-second notes. The piece then led into the third and final movement in which the pianist climaxed in a “whirlwind of the main theme.”

My only criticism was that Taub played works exclusively by Beethoven. Considering that Taub is a premier performer of modern music, and that his repertoire is reportedly all-encompassing, it would have been nice to hear a little more variety.

The next day, three fortunate students played for Taub in the master class (an open forum for musicians) in order to receive input. Tuesday evening Taub conducted a lecture/performance in Hodson Hall. Although the title, Global Implications of Local Details in the Beethoven Piano Sonatas sounds grand, the pianist admitted that it was just a name that he thought up one morning while shaving. The lecture dealt primarily with small details in Beethoven’s sonatas that have a large impact on sonatas as a whole. One of the issues that Taub dealt with was the ambiguities between modern-day pianos and the pianofortes of Beethoven’s day. Modern pianos with metal frames have a more bombastic sound than their smaller, wooden predecessors. Thus, pedal and dynamic markings in the sonatas created drastically different moods depending on the instrument being played.

Overall, the opportunity to hear a pianist of his caliber is rare, particularly in a small hamlet such as Davidson.

Fort Mill, S.C. offers a taste of Native American history

By Christie Shi
Travel Correspondent

My trip to Fort Mill, S.C., didn’t quite go as I expected. The preliminary precipitation to the storm under which we now lie besieged began during my trip. I had specific reasons for visiting, (namely, an auction which was to be held on Main Street of that town) and the more I read about Fort Mill, the greater my excitement about seeing it.

On the Road Again

Fort Mill was named for two separate entities, a fort and a mill. The fort was built in 1740 to protect the friendly Catawba Indians from attacks by the Shawnee and Cherokee tribes. Thirty-five years later, a gristmill was built on a local creek. In 1763, after many years of alternating peace and friction between the white settlers and the Catawbas, “an agreement was reached whereby the white men set aside an area about 15 miles square for the use of the Catawbas.” Through the years, however, much of this “Indian Nation” came back into the settlers’ hands.

Native American heritage is central to Fort Mill and its beginnings. Yet, many other interesting...Sites trace its colonial past. Some include Spratt family graveyard, Spratt’s Spring (where General Cornwallis camped during the American Revolution), Confederate Park, Springfield Plantation, White Homestead, and Springs Mills’ first textile plant. The town remains fairly untouched by unwanted development; although slightly larger than Davidson, Main Street has a way of carrying you back to another nostalgic place. Due to the weather, it was fairly difficult to explore the town; given a warm, spring day Fort Mill should prove a relaxing escape. Points of consideration: don’t go to Fort Mill hungry. There is one fast food restaurant, and another cafe-type joint on Main Street, but apparently it just “reopened.” (I was not brave enough to ask why it closed.) When asked where to find a good place to eat, a local woman directed me toward South Charlotte. That is understandable when you consider Fort Mill lies less than 18 miles south of Charlotte. It is easily accessible from I-77 once you pass the Carowinds exits. One point of interest to those of you who thrive on scandal: Jim and Tammy Bakker’s Heritage U.S.A. lies on the outskirts of Fort Mill. Also located in Fort Mill is the Charlotte Knights Stadium, home of the AAA Cleveland Indians’ baseball team. One final comment: photographers looking for subjects and settings should visit Fort Mill. There are several unique sculptures similar to those in uptown Charlotte, and the small-town atmosphere adds a wonderful taste of days gone by. If you do go, make sure the weather forecast does not call for winter weather; it sure can dampen your stay.

ARTS & LIVING | FEBRUARY 5, 1996

Bring on Beethoven

MONDAY
Eating Disorders Awareness informs the campus 8 a.m.-2 p.m. in the Union Lobby.
Free Play Basketball in Johnston Gym 3:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m.
Student Health Event on eating disorders in the Carolina Inn 7:30 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java jump starts your week 8 p.m.-12 a.m. in the Outpost.
Sherri Jackson Band chases away the Monday blues 9:30 p.m.-12 a.m. in the 900 Room.

TUESDAY
Coffeehouse perks in the 900 Room 8 a.m.-11 a.m.
Eating Disorders Awareness continues 8 a.m.-11 a.m.
Shackleford Jewelry Sale satisfies shopping cravings in the Union Lobby 8 a.m.-5 p.m.
Free Play Basketball same time, same place.
Jumpin’ Java is still jumpin’ 8 p.m.-12 a.m. in the Outpost.
Twenty-One Year Old Night is a welcome end to a long day in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m.

WEDNESDAY
Chambers Gallery 7 p.m.-9:30 p.m.
Eating Disorders Awareness in the Union 8 a.m.-12:30 p.m.
89.9 Music Listening Contest makes the students listen in the 900 Room and the Big Screen Room 12:30 p.m.-4:30 p.m.
State Laws and Underage Drinking are explained in CROP.
Lunch serves you in the 900 Room 11 a.m.-2 p.m.
Free Play Basketball plays hard in Johnston Gym 3:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java has a special surprise in mind tonight in the Outpost 9:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m.

THURSDAY
Solidarity Week 1996 begins 8 a.m.-4 p.m. in the Big Screen Room of the Union.
Eating Disorders Awareness 8 a.m.-11 a.m. in the Union.
Habitat Day inspires us to do something good for mankind 4 p.m.-2 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java spices up our weekend 2 p.m.-6 p.m. in the Outpost.
Saturday Night Live brings the Outpost to life 9:30 p.m.-1 a.m.

SUNDAY
Jumpin’ Java is there for you 8 p.m.-12 a.m.

We really need a cartoonist. Call John or Mary Clare at -2148.