6 THE DAVIDSONIAN ELSEWHERE

Week in Washington

Governors propose Medicaid, welfare compromise

By David Santschi
Washington Week Correspondent

A conference of the National Governors Association held in Washington last week has proposed a set of compromises on Medicaid
and welfare that could help break the budget deadlock. Since the disagreements between congressional Republicans and President Clinton center on
entitlement spending, their plan could become a model for congressional action.

“A bipartisan consensus among the governors will go a long way to ending the federal impasse,” said Governor George E.
Pataki (NY). While the bipartisan council of governors cannot implement policy, Republicans in Congress have said that they will consider
a compromise supported by Republican governors. The governors unanimously approved both proposals.

Funded and run by the states and the federal government, Medicaid provides subsidized medical care to millions of poor Americans.
The states have been eager to reform Medicaid because its cost now accounts for 20% of state budgets. The governors’
plan takes a middle course between the views of Congress and the President. It would fund Medicaid through block grants
given by the federal government to the states, as Republicans want. A basic set of benefits would be guaranteed to
recipients, as the President and many other Democrats favor. Medicaid would remain an entitlement, and states would be given larger
block grants if the number of recipients grows.

The states could not deny coverage to pregnant women with incomes 33% above the poverty line, the disabled, and welfare
recipients. However, the states would have “complete flexibility in defining the amount, duration, and scope” of such benefits and in
defining disabled status. Recipients could be forced into health maintenance organizations without federal approval.

On welfare reform, the governors would turn the cash-assistance program into a block grant to the states. To appease Democrats,
$4 billion was added for child care, and food stamps would continue as an entitlement. The plan represents over two
months of work by three Republican and three Democratic governors. The plan must still be assessed by the Congressional Budget
Office, and the governors’ broad agreement must be written in formal legislative language if Congress is to consider it.

Republican New Jersey Governor Christine Todd Whitman hoped that the plan would “break the logjam” in Congress over entitlements. President
Clinton praised the plan as “a step in the right direction,” but the White House argued that three million poor
children between 13 and 18 would lose Medicaid benefits. Clinton vetoed the Republican welfare reform package and a version of
Medicaid reform. Senator Bob Dole (R-KS) said both plans “hold great promise.”

The governors take a middle course between Republicans’ desire to use money saved from the programs to balance the budget
and Democratic concerns over reducing benefits to the poorest Americans. The states would have the power to limit benefit amounts
and administer the programs themselves. However, the entitlement status of Medicaid, welfare benefits, and food stamps would remain, and block
grant amounts would change from year to year.

The governors’ plan may generate enough momentum to push Congress and President Clinton back to the negotiating table on these
issues. While more ideological groups, including the conservative Heritage Foundation and the liberal Children’s Defense Fund, have condemned the plan,
the governors believe that compromise is preferable to more budget paralysis.

Sources include: February 6 of The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal.

Global Perspective

IRA history fuels recurrent terrorism

By Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

Seventeen months of peace came to an end last Friday night when the IRA detonated a bomb in London badly
damaging a six-story building, injuring almost a hundred people, and bringing Britain’s problems with Ireland back onto the front pages.

People who follow the news probably have some idea of what the I.R.A. is and what it has done over
the last few years. But to truly understand the group which has caused so much pain and suffering in Great
Britain while inspiring such loyalty and support in Ireland over the last several decades, it is important to understand the
history of the group that is called the Irish Republican Army. Over the next two weeks, we will explore the
past, present, and future of the IRA and hopefully acquire a better understanding of the conflict.

The origins of the IRA can be traced back to the formation of the Ulster Volunteer Force in the early
1900s which formed in an attempt to keep the British Liberal government from introducing home rule to Northern Ireland. The
Ulster Volunteer Force was created by the upper-class Protestants and used armed force, coercion, and its money to keep home
rule out of Northern Ireland. When home rule was proposed, the wealthy Protestants who did not want to see their
power disappear, began to recruit and train an army and formed the Ulster Provisional Government. This left Great Britain in
an awkward position because, even though it was willing to give Ireland self-rule, it could not very well use British
troops to put down an uprising whose sole purpose was to keep British citizens British. And so...the uprising triumphed and
self-rule was withheld from Ireland. However, only a few years later, World War I and the 1916 Rebellion by Catholic
Irish changed that. During the war, with the British preoccupied with the Germans, Southern Ireland declared its independence. The North,
highly populated and controlled by Protestants, remained a part of Great Britain. From this separation came the IRA and Sinn
Fein. Over the years Sinn Fein has remained basically the same. It is the political wing of the IRA and
campaigns for a union between Northern and Southern Ireland. The IRA, however, has changed a great deal throughout the years.
It began in the early 1900s as a group of volunteers who opposed and fought the Protestant forces which controlled
Northern Ireland. Over the next half-century, it slowly began to lose its focus and became more of a political society
which leaned toward Marxism and had basically no military power or incentive. At the end of the 1950s, the IRA
seemed to be disappearing from the political scene and its numbers were dropping rapidly. However, events in the 1960s brought
about a change in the IRA. Protestant riots and massacres in Catholic towns created a belief among Catholics that if
they were going to be safe, they would have to protect themselves. This new belief threw fuel on the dying
embers of hate and mistrust for the British, turned many Irish towns into war zones, and revitalized one of the
most deadly and destructive terrorist organizations the world has ever seen. Next week: The new IRA and the consequences of
its terrorism.

The Pabidgonian needs help. Please call -2148.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1996

Agricultural bill meets Senate approval

In a reversal of policy dating back to the Great Depression of the 1930s, the Senate voted Wednesday in favor
of legislation designed to end agricultural subsidies. In addition to a gradual termination of subsidies, the bill seeks to dismantle
programs which give the government significant control over farmers’ planting decisions. Through such programs, the government currently offers farmers financial
incentives to plant specific crops. The bill, approved by a vote of 64 to 32, is likely to come to
a vote before the House later this month.

—Sources include: February 8, 1996 The New York Times

China’s Military Aid in Rescue Work

Two thousand Chinese soldiers were called to Yunnan, one of China’s southern-most provinces, last Sunday, to cope with the aftermath
of an earthquake which rocked the area on Saturday. Saturday’s quake, which measured 7.0 on the Richter scale, caused 200
fatalities and left 14,000 inhabitants with injuries. Rescue work was hindered by a seemingly endless series of aftershocks which added
to the chaos and destruction. There were 184 such aftershocks recorded in the province during the first 26 hours following
Saturday’s earthquake. Several of these measured as high as 4.0 and 4.8 on the Richter scale.

—Sources include: February 5, 1996 The New York Times

Pope tours Latin America

The Pope began a seven-day tour of Latin America Monday with a visit to Guatemala City. Under heavy security, he
traveled to Nicaragua, El Salvador, and Venezuela as the week progressed. The tour was designed to offer encouragement to the
countries of Latin America, many of which face seemingly insurmountable levels of crime and corruption. Latin America has traditionally been
an area of devout Catholic faith and strong support of the Catholic Church.

—Sources include: February 6, 1996 The Washington Post

Mexican peasants protest environmental damage

Peasants in Nacajuca, Mexico banded together last week protesting environmental damage caused by Pemex, Mexico’s oil monopoly. Wednesday, after Mexican
authorities ordered federal agents to clear a road blocked by protesters, agents charged into the unarmed crowd. Protesters claim that
due to Pemex’s polluting of the area’s land and water, the farming and fishing industries on which the peasants rely
have been nearly destroyed. Their demands include monetary compensation as well as a promise that Pemex will suspend drilling on
new oil wells until a solution to the environmental exploitation is reached.

—Sources include: February 9, 1996 The Christian Science Monitor

Classes you can take at a really big school

With final projects named “Mint Chocolate Swirl” or “Angel Food Cake,” it’s no wonder Food Science 101 is becoming Cone
University’s hottest “gut” course, with 85 students. For the past three years, Professor Joseph H. Hotchkiss has required his first-year
students in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences to create a new ice cream flavor for their final exam.
“It’s all a good way to learn how food is manufactured and how nutritional content is determined,” he adds. Along
the way, students attend a series of lectures and research the marketing strategies of companies such as Ben & Jerry’s.
But thoughts of taking over the ice cream world are only fleeting. “To be honest with you, most of the
time ... the flavors are not very impressive,” Hotchkiss said. “It’s really just a learning experience for the students.”

—College Press Service

Some records were made to be broken

“I am a little bit dizzy, and I have a headache and an awful taste in my mouth, but I
am sure everything will pass away.” —Stefan Sigmond, who successfully smoked 800 cigarettes in six minutes to make it into
the record books.

—Newsweek
