THE DAVIDSONIAN

Students dig into some delicious Chinese food.

ARTS & LIVING

Josh Glazer

The Hats Back

Davidson gourmets usher in the Chinese New Year

By Saab Gut
Guest Writer

By 1930 hours, the trickle had become a flood. That enthusiastic crowd of Davidson students, which sometimes assumes more than
a passing semblance to a ravenous mob when good free food is offered, stormed into the 900 Room on Monday
night. Professors Marilyn Miller (Japanese), Mark Csikszentmihalyi (Religion), and Shelley Rigger (Political Science) had arranged a Chinese New Year (of
The Rat) Party under the “spiritual guidance” of Davidson China guru, English Professor Gill Holland. Junior Mary Baxter and Senior
Jack Livings led the effort from the student side.

Unfortunately, Rigger was unable to make it, and confusion prevailed for a while. Junior Thomas Wang from Taiwan was finally
shanghaied into service as an impromptu cook, despite his protests of ignorance, and led a group of about a dozen
students in making chicken dumplings under the culinary command of their professors.

An impressive paper rat, a distant cousin of the ones our psychology major friends are obsessed with, stood guard near
the entrance. Csikszentmihalyi regretted that after celebrating this anniversary, the rat would have to be sent on sabbatical for a
dozen years. He explained that the Chinese astrological calendar follows a 12-year cycle, and it is currently the year of
the rat that is beginning, hence the awe-inspiring rat that dominated the room.

Miller, explaining that “We want to crack some stereotypes,” prepared some excellent vegetarian sushi that was in hot demand for
the entire evening. For the more adventurous, she had some spices on standby on the side. “This is how much
you can safely use,” a student explained to me, putting some spicy sauce the size of a pinhead on his
noodles.

“Happy New Year,” explained Junior May Kee, is not necessarily an appropriate term for the occasion. Some Chinese traditions hold
the Year of The Rat to be inauspicious for certain sections, and part of the celebration may be to drive
away any negative vibes the year might bring. When pressed for examples, she said that setting fire to Ratty in
the corner might be a ritual. Birthday Rat that he was, Ratty was also spared such a fate by the
general cuteness of his manner.

In addition, the organizers were careful to ensure that the gathered learned new facts about Chinese culture, not mere rehashed
versions of the stereotypes Hollywood sets before us. Charlotte and its surrounding areas may not be famous for ethnic cuisine
like Certain Other Accepted Big Cities, but the good doctors had certainly managed to put together a gathering of fun,
knowledge, and food to satisfy the most finicky connoisseur.

By Dorcas and Maapdge
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1996

Consulting Astrologists

Pisces (February 19-March 20)—Remember that you are slippery when wet, fish. Acquiring safety skills will be a leitmotif this week.
Stop, drop, and roll! Lucky Place: Cannon Pool.

Aries (March 21-April 19)—Beware of a man clad in a wetsuit, he has gangrene. Be kind, rewind. The stars show
that you will be especially skilled in solving jumbles thisweek. Lucky Place: Sesquicentennial Garden.

Taurus (April 20-May 20)—Toro, Toro, live music on Thursday night will bring great fortune. ¡¡¡Coge tu sombrero y póntelo!!! Make
sure to cut a rug. Lucky Place: El Cancun. Performative utterance: Hola Miss Simerka.

Gemini (May 21-June 20)—Drink in your surroundings. Life is twice the fun when you're a twin. You have reached the
dew point. Lucky day: Friday. Performative utterance: Menelaus Beezy Hawley.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)—This is your week. Hey kids rock and roll, ROCK ON. Set a course for adventure; your
mind on a new romance. Wax creative: live like Bob Ross. Lucky channels: PBS, E!.

Leo (July 23-August 22)—Don’t be a lemming, roar about your individuality. Consider a career in opera. The stars dictate strong
vocal chords. Lucky place: Bravo. Lucky body part: Larynx.

Virgo (August 23-September 22)—Make sure to get a lot of sleep this week, virgin. Walking around like a zombie does
nothing for your G.P.A. Lucky song: Thriller. Walk the walk, talk the talk.

Libra (September 23-October 22)—Well Libra, you can always blame it on the Bossanova, the dance of love. After this past
weekend, you have quite the admirer. Lucky Place: the Old Well.

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)—Pretty young things, repeat after me—I will not go to the tanning bed before spring break. We’re
not doctors, we just play them on T.V. Lucky Place: Tom Clark’s Gnome Museum.

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21)—Go-go-gadget lifestyle switch. Activate your wonder twin power with a friend. Form of (pause) waterfall! Form of
(pause) ice bridge! Lucky Channel: Cartoon Network.

Capricorn (December 22-January 19)—The alignment of Mercury with Venus will give you anthrax if you are not careful. Listen to
your body. Lucky Place: Pussy Galore’s Flight Training School.

Aquarius (January 20-February 18)—A planetary pileup creates chaos this week. You will be socially cramped among other things. Watch out
for jaundice and goiters (get your iodine from fish and iodized salt), your immunity towards them is weakened at the
present time. Lucky Place: Covington Golf Course.

Put a little excitement in your life! Write for Arts. Call James at -2148.

Woo who? from page 10

Instead, he is forced to play the villain as a psychotic megalomaniac. Woo makes the same mistake as in his
previous American effort, Hard Target, by having such a contrived villain. One is forced to wonder why Woo has taken
out the marvelous shades of gray that made his earlier films work so well. Is he dumbing down his films
for an American audience? Personally, I hope not. It’s a scary thing to think that the Hong Kong action flicks
expect more out of their audience than big-time Hollywood films do. (Grade: B)

GET READY FOR SPRING BREAK

NEW TAN RATES
$4.00 PER SESSION
10 sessions for $33.00
15 sessions for $43.00
20 sessions for $50.00
Unlimited for $49.00

Located at the Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St., Cornelius
(704) 892-7030

Pi OH Nails
French Manicures
Pedicures
TREAT YOURSELF TODAY!

For’s Seafood, BBQ & Catering
Featuring GREAT Seafood, outstanding Ribeye Steaks, our famous Barbecue and award-winning Banana Pudding PLUS Much More!

LUNCH HOURS: Friday, 11:30 - 2:00 P.M.
DINNER: Tues. - Sat., 5:00 P.M. - 9:00 P.M.
18150 Statesville Rd., CORNELIUS
