OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 1996 Jack Slosson Pride or hatred

Okay, it’s time for a little controversy. The other day during a class discussion on Southern nationalism, the topic of
the rebel flag came up. My peers raised solid points on both sides. I realize the rebel flag is a
symbol for the Southern pride that Bob Bailey eloquently summed up by saying, “We're better fighters, we’re better hunters, and
we’re better lovers.” I have no problems with people taking pride in the South, that’s not the issue. The question
I would like to address is whether the rebel flag should still be used to express this pride, especially in
public places.

During the 1950s and 60s the rebel flag became a sign of hatred. Its meaning was perverted by racists who
used it to taunt blacks and voice their opposition to the achievements of the civil rights movement. As a result,
the flag is now extremely offensive to a large number of people. It can no longer be seen as merely
a symbol of pride, but also as pride and nationalism for their homeland. Some sick individuals, however, perverted the meaning
of the swastika, using it to represent their anti-semitism. Many people in Germany did not hate Jews, just as many
Southerners do not hate blacks. The point, however, is that the swastika is now seen as a symbol of hatred.
It instills fear into people when neo-Nazis use the symbol to represent their feelings of German nationalism. I tend to
see the rebel flag in a similar light.

Now don’t get me wrong, I’ve lived over half my life in the South and I just let my feelings
of hatred which the rebel flag represents and try to express pride in the South in other ways. I do
not think that everyone who hangs a rebel flag is a racist. I even think it was wrong to take
the Dukes of Hazard off the air because some people were offended by the stars and bars displayed on the
roof of the General Lee. My problem is with states such as South Carolina who started to fly the flag
over their capital in the middle of the civil rights movement. The flag was being used to express their racist
beliefs of segregation. There is no justifiable reason why the flag should still be flying over the state capital today.
If someone wants to display the flag in private places as an expression of Southern pride then that’s okay, but
public displays of the rebel flag ignore the feelings of a large number of people. Basically, people should just be
aware of the feelings of hatred which the rebel flag represents and try to express their pride in the South
in other ways.

El Jefe rides again

Well, we’re back from break and officially in the swing of things once again. By now dozens of naked men
will have streaked through campus in subhuman temperatures, dozens, nay hundreds, of women will have laughed at those poor, shriveled
fools, and the memories of Self-Selection antics will join an elite list of actions that people will either boast about
or suppress for the rest of their college terms.

So it’s back to the grind. With no vacation in sight we return to the hallowed halls of Chambers and
the puke green carpeting of the ‘braire. But before we hurl ourselves headlong into the world’s most demanding academic schedule,
let us take a few moments to examine our fine institution and ponder possibilities for its improvement.

During the snowstorm over the break when I was stuck in my home with only bad reruns of Saved by
the Bell for entertainment, I had plenty of time to think. So while marooned in my winter wonderland I came
up with a few suggestions to improve this spiffy little school. Now, I know many of you have heard me
start like this before, but this is not a list of complaints. If I wanted to complain, I would mention
the continued crippling of our campus cable T.V. system, or mention the extraordinarily low number of electives offered in the
subjects I wish to pursue. No, these are genuine tips for a better Davidson, so listen up.

First off, we need to adjust the dates of our Christmas break. For people who live far away, getting home
before the 21st or 22nd of December is tough. Such late arrivals make gift buying extremely difficult considering the often
overwhelming influx of holiday activities that often flood the prodigal sons and daughters returning home from college. When theFolks are
shelling out $24,000 plus a year for school and you stroll in the door with a collection of assorted socks
from Target for Paw and a pair of Revco clip-on earrings for Maw, it isn’t always a pretty sight. (Be
sure, when reading the article, to pronounce “Target” properly—that is to say, like “Tarjé,” which, as you francophiles well know,
originates from the French word “tarjelous” meaning: “to buy things hurriedly and carelessly as if in a rush to avoid
extreme consequences.” This word should not be confused with the more contemporary English term, “Target,” which describes something at which
you shoot or throw objects—a surly freshman, for example.)

Besides the gift-buying crunch, our lopsided break also creates problems for those who wish to work over the break. Most
businesses usually need more help in the weeks preceding Christmas and New Year’s Eve as opposed to the dead periods
afterward which consume the majority of our winter vacation. Let’s face it, there’s just more money changing hands during the
holidays than in early January when people spend most of their time clearing arteries from eggnog and debating about whether
or not the Christmas tree would look good in the living room year-round. I could ramble on, but you get
the point. Schedule people, I implore you, listen to the masses—or at least listen to me because the masses are
too lazy to say anything themselves—fix winter break. If not for me, a poor futureless senior, for the younger generation.
Do something for the children! They’re all we’ve got left for God’s sake!

Okay, moving on to a topic that hits a little closer to home for me. Something must be done about
the parking situation. These sneaky freshmen that bring back cars after Winter Break must be stopped. Or perhaps it is
those culture-rich juniors returning from abroad and bringing their autos with them. This should not happen. I say, it’s either
culture or a car. You can’t have both. If you leave the country, you lose your parking privileges for the
year. There is nothing worse than sophisticated people behind the wheel. They never yield, and they get all upset if
your ‘81 Ford happens to nick their Lexus. And as for those freshmen, they shouldn’t even have cars. Part of
the freshmen experience is kissing up to upperclassmen for rides. It’s part of life. We don’t make them wear those
beanie things on their heads anymore. I realize that wouldn’t fly in today’s world. The days of general freshmen hazing
are over, but to take away all upperclassmen privilege is a crime. If freshmen are going to have cars, then
they should be obligated to drive upperclassmen to class on command. Have you ever had to walk up that hill
from the apartments or “Down the Hill?” It’s a workout. At least give us golf carts. We’ll say one per
each side of each apartment building and one for each half hall in the sophomore dorms. Think about it. Not
only would golf carts promote unity as students coordinate schedules and cram onto the carts in a cuddly collection of
bonding, but if we bought electric carts we would cut down on the carbon monoxide levels around Davidson, doing our
part to help the environment. Recycling people, whoever you are, I think you should jump on this bandwagon A.S.A.P.

The past week has been a flurry of Patterson Court activity. It’s just been a nonstop party here at the
Big D. Yet, there lurks an environmental and financial atrocity beneath this lively new year merriment. Literally, this problem is
piling up under our feet. What is it? Wristbands. When are the people in charge of this plastic shenanigan going
to realize that wristbands are not only a complete waste of money but also an environmental outrage? Why can’t 21-year-olds
flash hand stamps instead of our favorite adjustable bracelets? Most importantly, why is O’Douls sponsoring the most recent batches of
Court wristbands? Personally, when I go to the waterslide I don’t mind a little color-coded plastic bracelet. When I start
wearing one on a regular basis though I begin to feel like a tagged shark. No more! Judging by the
number of bands strewn all over campus (and the Pub floor), it’s clear that there’s a waste problem. In addition,
seeing as though most people are wearing long sleeves this time of year, wristbands aren’t that easy to spot immediately.
Hand stamps, on the other hand, are much more economical and landfill-friendly. Although some wasteful people might share the opinion
of the senior quoted in the September 5th issue of the Davidsonian, who said she’d rather wear a disposable wristband
than a stamp that might last for a couple of days, hand stamps are definitely the way to go. Earlier
in the fall, all party-goers had to sport wristbands regardless of age. Now that only 21-year-olds and older have to
identify themselves, why not return to the old system of stamps?
