THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1996

HAWAIIAN HO-DOWN
Students dance Hawaiian style beside the Davidson well.
-Josh Glazer

Dance Troupe defies death
By BRIGAND GREEN
Staff Writer

Sometimes, it’s easy to get the feeling that the arts are being sorely neglected at Davidson. One can point at the new Fine Arts Center as a monument to our artistic commitment, but with sporadic funding and waning student interest in the arts, the building begins to look more like a mausoleum—the place where the Davidson arts go to die.

Fortunately, the artists which Davidson does manage to attract aren’t an easily-discouraged lot. For example, consider the Davidson Dance Troupe. Founded in 1983, the group’s funding has been so minimal that it lost its last salaried instructor in 1992, when most of the current student body was still in high school. However, the Dance Troupe members used this initial neglect as a gateway to greater artistic freedom and expression.

Since 1993, the Davidson Dance Troupe has been entirely student-run under the leadership of seniors Laura Liebfried and Shannon Simmons, and has continued to produce shows free of charge for Davidson’s students and faculty. Their final performance of the year, “Beyond Facades,” was held in Love Auditorium on Saturday, April 27. The show was an eclectic commemoration of some of the best pieces performed by the Troupe over the past three years. Both modern and classical dance styles were included, a hallmark of Dance Troupe productions.

“Shannon’s specialty is classical ballet — Baryshnikov and tutus,” said Liebfried, laughing. “I’m more involved in modern dance. So between the two of us we’re...”

See Dance on page 12

South Asian Dancers boogie down
By EMILY SMITH
Staff Writer

Saturday night, The South Asian Dance Festival came to Love Auditorium to present an assortment of contemporary and traditional dance. The program consisted of ten pieces, performed by solo and group dancers. Two Davidson students took part in the festival, Aparna Iyer and Amdi Amarasinghe. Iyer opened the program with two pieces, one traditional dance of worship and a dance interpretation of an old Indian story. Amarasinghe did a Kandyan dance entitled...

The contemporary dance selections were mostly excerpts from modern Indian movies and were well received by audience members. The traditional pieces incorporated instruments such as ankle and wrist bells and sticks. The traditional dances included a mix of four distinct types. Bharata Natyam is the eldest among the classical dances and was developed in the Temples as a form of Divine Worship. In Dandiya Ras, a dance originated in North India, the dancers strike sticks as they move in a circle to produce a rhythmic effect. The third of the dances is Garbo, another North Indian Dance. This form also uses a circular pattern but clapping is the method of rhythm. Finally, Kandyan dance, from Sri Lanka, is usually performed to the beat of drums called geta bera.

The colorful costumes, decorative and instrumental jewelry, and musical assortment created an extraordinary evening of tradition as well as innovative ideas in South Asian Dance.

College Kitchen
Lighten’ up the grill: Pork Roast Marinade and Delicious Jello Treats
By ROS KOSICKI AND JAY SHULTZ
Cy Chefs-in-Residence

Big Screen Room 7 p.m.- 9 p.m.
Outpost 8 p.m.- 12 a.m.
9:30 p.m. Dean Rusk Program educates you internationally in the Jumpin’ Java says goodbye with Farewell Poetry in the Music in Hodson Hall serves as a stress...Reliever 8 p.m. - Coffeehouse perks you up after a long night in the 900 Room 8 a.m. - 1 a.m. Athletic Awards Banquet honors those we know and love 6 p.m. - 11 p.m. Jumpin’ Java gets you pumpin’ with South Asian poetry in the Outpost 8:30 p.m. - 12 a.m. Twenty-one Year Old Night helps you drown stress and sorrows in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. WQSANL early in the 900 Room 7:30 a.m. - 9 a.m. Time in Erwin Lodge 5:45 p.m. - 7 p.m.

“Jesus at 2000” sounds interesting. Gallery 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. at Cosmic Coffee 8 p.m. - 10 p.m. Wellness Seminar gets you on the right track and Optional Class Days Begin—take advantage of your extra Center Awards Banquet honors more people we know and love in the Carolina Inn 5:30 p.m. - 8 p.m. End of the Year Picnic celebrates the thought of freedom in Chambers. Poetry Readings at Cosmic get you in that groovy mood. Wellness Seminar wakes you up in the 900 Room 8:30 a.m. - 10 a.m. Crop Lunch serves the hungry in the 900 Room 11 a.m. - 2 p.m. Dean Rusk Program Speaker enlightens the knowledge seekers in the 900 Room 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. in the Union Lobby 10 a.m. - 4 p.m. Jewelry Sale gets you all decked out before the year ends. Opera Scenes inspire in Hodson Hall 8 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. ODK Leadership Banquet in Chambers Gallery 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. Opera Scenes in Hodson Hall 8 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. DC Dance Troupe cuts a rug in Love Auditorium 8 p.m. - 11 p.m. Dazed and Confused reflects campus moods in the 900 Room 9 p.m. - 11:30 p.m.

Due to the arrival of spring, grilling season is now open. So we would like to provide you with a recipe you can use the next time you’re burning your nose hairs over an open flame. This marinade is best used with pork chops, or if you really aim to please, pork tenderloin. Chicken is also a proven success. For this marinade, you will need the following ingredients:

- Pork of choice
- 12 oz jar of Heinz chili sauce
- 1/4 cup of soy sauce
- 1 cup of ketchup (or catsup)
- 1/2 cup of brown sugar
- 1 tbsp. of minced garlic

* Mix all ingredients together in a dish and marinate pork for at least three hours. Grill pork to your own desire and enjoy.

In addition to the marinade, we decided to add a little dessert recipe which many of you may know, but for those who don’t, you may want to cut this one out and post it on your refrigerator. You will only need Jello mix, water, and vodka. Follow the instructions on the back of the Jello box and substitute the same amount of vodka where the recipe calls for cold water. Do not substitute the vodka for the hot water or your tasty treats won't be so tasty. Pour the contents into ice cube trays or whatever will fit into your fridge. Warning: the latter recipe is for those above the age of twenty-one; those under twenty-one should not attempt this recipe.

Vereen Bell Writing Award:
1st Place — Jack Livings
2nd Place — Jennifer Nolan
3rd Place — Chad Ossman

Prose Writing Award:
1st Place — Shayna Chazin
2nd Place — Geordie Schimmel
3rd Place — Michael Ferber

Congratulations!!!