THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS, MONDAY, APRIL 22, 1996

Self Study: Davidson needs racial acceptance

By JONATHAN SIPLING
Staff Writer

The 1995-96 Self-Study Report of the Focus Group on the Student Experience finds that, “to the detriment of all, Davidson has not yet reached an appropriate level of appreciation for the contributions of the African-American members of our community.”

Self-Study Series

While asserting that “there seems to be a consensus that overt acts of racism on the Davidson College campus are now rare,” the focus group maintains that “the College still manifests subtle aspects of racism that should not be tolerated.” Many of these aspects are not intended as offensive or discriminatory, but are attributable to ignorance in considering how an act may be perceived by another, the Study says. Included among this type of subtle racism are the hanging of the Confederate flag, derogatory remarks about music and clothing, and college personnel asking African-American students if they are students or workers.

Tom Shandley, Dean of Students and member of the Focus Committee on the Student Experience, says that “one of the most painful things we heard from African American students was a feeling of isolation, a feeling that you could walk down the halls and have no one say hello to you... It’s that sort of subtle tension that tends to break down one’s self-esteem.”

For the most part, the Self-Study finds, minority students feel the faculty are “sensitive to their concerns,” excepting a few “per-

SGA proposes to install cat cards on doors of Chambers

By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
Assistant News Editor

Student safety at Davidson doesn’t seem a pressing issue to many students. After all, Davidson College was recently recognized by Security Works magazine as one of the most secure college campuses in the nation.

However, cat cards may soon be necessary to enter the 24-hour study room, Martin Chemistry Building, and Chambers between the late evening and early morning hours. The SGA Senate body recommended such security measures Tuesday evening by passing a campus security resolution introduced by Sophomore Class President Lucian Dervan and Rusk Senator Heather Brown, also a sophomore. Dervan and Brown serve as SGA Co-Chairs of the Student Advisory Council to the Director of Campus Safety. Sophomore Anne Ford acts as Student Body Chair of the SAC.

Terms of the resolution recognize that the 24-hour study room, Chambers, and the Martin Chemistry Building are all used by students late at night and do not feature cat card access. The resolution goes on to state that because “the police have great difficulty preventing unauthorized entry into these buildings by non-Davidson affiliated persons;...these areas are potentially dangerous to Davidson students due to lack of security.”

In passing the resolution, the SGA encouraged the administration to “implement cat card access on the 24-hour Study Room, the East side automatic, North and South entrances of Chambers and the Martin Chemistry Building.”

Dervan explains that the administration has long considered such action and says that the resolution was brought before the SGA “to make clear that students were in favor of [these measures].”

Although the campus police department has voiced concern as to their ability to adequately patrol Chambers late at night, not all students are worried about safety in the area. “I think it’s a safe environment,” says freshman Seth Carpenter who often studies in Chambers, “I don’t feel threatened at all.” Sophomore Ashley Weedn says that although she does not feel that her safety is threatened while she studies in Chambers, she believes that increased security “is probably a good idea.” Carrie Sloan, a sophomore, agrees that the resolution’s call for heightened security “is a good idea. It’s really scary,” she notes, “when you are here late at night.”

If approved by the administration, the project will likely be completed this summer, says Dervan. The estimated expenses, which total approximately $80,000, would probably be split over two years’ budgets. Some students have voiced their displeasure with the prospect of one sacrifice required by the cat card installation. Because Chambers’ swinging doors are too heavy to facilitate a cat card system, they will have to be replaced.

Buechner makes three-day pilgrimage at Davidson

By CATHERINE ANDERSON
News Editor

The 1996 Staley Distinguished Christian Scholar Lecture Series brought noted theologian and one of today’s most powerful writers on religious themes to Davidson this past week. Fredrick Buechner, a graduate of Princeton University and Union Theological Seminary and author of 12 novels, 12 works of non-fiction and numerous essays and sermons, began the series last Sunday presenting the 11 a.m. sermon at Davidson College Presbyterian Church. He spoke later that evening on “The Faces of Jesus,” when he retold the story of Jesus through a slide show portraying thedepiction of the face of Jesus from different artistic traditions, from African to Northern Renaissance to Contemporary genres. Monday evening he drew a packed sanctuary for his poignant lecture on “The Longing for Home,” describing what home meant to him, the universal search for a spiritual home, and the continuous search that remains for each individual. Buechner concluded his series Tuesday with readings from his works of fiction "Book of Bebb" and "Godric" in the 900 Room of the College Union. “I felt like [the series] went very well,” says Robert Spach, College Chaplain. “He came across as a very genuine person and spoke very honestly.” Spach felt the lectures were well received and had a definite impact on the college community. He felt that Buechner’s time spent with students made an otherwise distanced figure much more human and real. “He talked about his own life and related it to his faith in a very meaningful way,” Spach said.

Kirsten rocks The Davidsonian received incidents of stereotyping minority students and possibly unfair grading. The Self-Study acknowledges, however, that a solution to these problems associated with subtle racism would be difficult to determine, as “a presentation or forum will most likely attract the students who least need this education.” “It seems like every year there are fewer opportunities to move towards that awareness,” says Junior Zikusooka Joseph. He feels that there are not enough events devoted to bringing alternative cultures to the campus. “The campus community has not been invited to deal with the issue as a group,” says Joseph. Says Junior Saad Gul, “Personal relations between the races — one on one — at Davidson could not be better. On a group basis though, one could probably hope for greater understanding of each other.” The ideal situation concerning racial tolerance, according to the Self-Study, will occur when Davidson comes to the full realization that, like international students, “African-American students also bring different experiences and backgrounds that ... contribute to the educational mission of the College.” Dean Shandley says there is a belief that improved attention to appreciation of diversity at orientation and during PE 101 could help the situation. He also felt, however, that the best way to build a campus that is not only tolerant of but grateful for diversity could be to continue to try to increase the number of African American students here.

Junior Mary Dowd gives bone marrow

By Brooke BAGWELL
Staff Writer

Junior Mary Dowd gave a precious gift to a perfect stranger earlier this month when she donated bone marrow at North Carolina Baptist Hospital in Winston-Salem. After being entered in the national registry, Dowd was designated as the closest match for the needy patient. Dowd became an eligible donor by registering for the national bone marrow registry at Project Life’s annual drive, and she was contacted earlier this year as a possible match. After further examination, Dowd reached the fourth and final level of the matching process and was identified as a perfect match. Dowd recognizes that the donation of bone marrow is more than just a clinical procedure. She considers herself lucky to be able to endure the minor inconveniences of a donation, which could potentially save the life of another. The surgery took approximately 45 minutes. Dowd was put under general anesthesia and was able to go home to Charlotte the next day. She reports that the bone marrow extraction was uneventful and the only side effects she experienced were stiffness and dull pain. Although Dowd was told that her bone marrow arrived safely for donation, she will have to wait to learn more information about the recipient, whose identity and welfare are withheld for a year to allow adequate recuperation and to avoid emotional strain. All communication between donor and patient is monitored through the Charlotte Red Cross. However, Dowd did learn that her recipient is a young child and she arranged for a stuffed rabbit and a card to be sent with her bone marrow donation. She says she is anxiously waiting to hear from the child’s parents. Dowd says she will donate again if given the opportunity. She says, “It’s overwhelming how many (people) need transplants and what a difference you can make. It’s so easy to allow someone else to live.” In light of the recent leukemia diagnosis of Jack McCarthy, the son of Susan Roberts and Kevin McCarthy, Dowd highly recommends registering as a possible bone marrow donor.

CORMAC'S Jack’s Rabbits is the name for the support group for little Jack McCarthy. This emblem was drawn by his brother Cormac, who will soon donate his bone marrow to Jack. Those who want to bring gifts should think “busy” and “small,” and leave them on the front porch of 560 Pine Road.