DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1996

Volleyball spanks two conference foes
By Drew WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

After knocking off Western Carolina on Friday in four games, the Wildcats avenged last month’s three-game sweep by beating UT-Chattanooga
in five games in Sunday’s regular season finale. Vicious kills from L.A. Bumgarner and Gina Lawrence set the tone, as
the team claimed the first two games, 15-11, 15-13. But UTC, the top seed in the conference, would not give
up so easily. After a pep-talk from their coach, the Mocs rallied to win the next two games, 15-8, 15-12.
Chattanooga jumped to a 10-5 lead in the rubber game, and it seemed another valiant effort would end in a
loss. But after a Wildcat timeout, the players took the floor with the same attitude they...

Understanding waterfowl
By JOHN ROE
Outdoors Columnist

Riding on the wing, just in front of the coldest masses of Canadian air, sweeping south through the flooded cornfields
and the cypress swamps, and meandering along swelling rivers and potholes are the flights of the waterfowl. Scores of geese
cover the sky in brilliant formations, filling the countryside with a harmony of sounds that embody nature’s wildness. Mallards, Canvasbacks,
Black Ducks, and Redheads, just to name a few, buzz over the treetops and stop frequently for rest and food.

Waterfowl hunters all over the nation look to the skies, play their wooden flutes, and employ sundry other devious tactics
in hopes to charm these birds into range. It takes much skill to coax a flock of ducks or geese
from flight. Not only must you master their language, but an advanced understanding of behavior, such as feeding and flying
habits, is necessary to outsmart these creatures. Blinds must be constructed in strategic locations, possibly on the edge of a
flooded field or in the backwater swamps bordering a major river flyway. Decoys can be set out in patterns such
that the waterfowl fly into range at just the right moment, allowing the hunters to remain concealed until the trigger
is pulled. Of course, changing weather must be factored into the mix, for winters can run the gamut from mild
to ridiculous conditions. In other words, there exists an infinite amount of details to consider that only experience and a
love for the hunt can teach you.

Although I have only hunted waterfowl for a short time, I have learned through mistakes as well as success. I
have figured out the maximum range within which to shoot, to ensure a clean kill and avoid crippling a bird.
But I have also figured out the critical depth of my waders, to ensure that no more unpleasant surprises trickle
down my legs and end the hunt. I have learned to reproduce a series of sounds on my duck call
that seems to pull the birds right in, but I have learned a series or two that apparently repels them
as well. My problem is that I cannot tell which is which, but the ducks sure can. I have realized
that a good dog is invaluable, for it is happy to sit outside the blind, dive into the icy water,
and retrieve a fighting bird all for a pat on the head.

Most importantly, I have discovered that waterfowl hunting is purely a group effort. Every hunter in a group plays a
crucial role in setting up decoys, scanning the horizon for birds, and waiting for the best shot the birds will
provide. It is truly a spectacular feeling to watch a flock materialize from the distant horizon, circle the open water,
and finally cup their wings and flutter like falling leaves into a spread of decoys just in front of the
blind. It is then that the group effort is appreciated. Between first light and the cleaning of the last bird,
so many things must go right. Understanding waterfowl behavior, reading the weather, and deciding which combinations of tactics are needed
to pull birds from the sky is what brings me back into the cold, icy conditions that ducks so love.
There is always something new to be learned about waterfowl, and the best teaching grounds are on the water among
the elements, fellow hunters, dogs, and birds.had exhibited early on, and rallied to defeat UTC, 16-14. Ginny Quis, Bumgarner, and
Lawrence each provided crucial kills to spark the victory. Radford said the difference in the game was the team’s attitude.
“They (the players) wanted to beat UTC instead of just playing well,” she said. On Friday night, the team grabbed
a 16-14, 9-15, 15-11, 15-10 win over Western Carolina. Gina Lawrence led the team with 20 kills, and Ginny Quis
had a team-leading 29 assists. Davidson (11-21) hopes to continue winning as they face either App. St. or Furman in
the first round of the Southern Conference playoffs next weekend.

CHAMPIONS
Tournament MVP Katherine Cornelius and all-tourney selection Amy Balsinger (right to left) bask in the glow of their third straight
women’s soccer conference tourney title.
Bill Giduz

Sailing snags best-ever finish at Districts
By Brice Ivy
Staff Writer

Capping off a successful season this fall, Davidson Sailing traveled to Gainesville, Fla. last weekend to compete for the Armstrong
trophy in the SAISA (South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association) Fall Dinghy Championships. Competition for berths to the championships was strong
throughout the Fall season.

Berths were determined by a series of regattas held both in the North and South sections of SAISA. The top
four competitors from each section competed in the championships. Davidson raced against nine other teams in the North Section, ranking
third overall. Section leader, College of Charleston handily won the top ranking in the North. However, Davidson, Vanderbilt, and The
Citadel competed fiercely for the remaining three slots. Sailing for Davidson in the first of these regattas, Will Beasley, Steinen
Gerla, Lindsay O’Nell, and Brice Ivy safely took fourth in windy conditions in Charleston. Charleston, Vanderbilt, and The Citadel all
placed ahead, while Davidson beat Duke, Tennessee, N.C. State, and UNC-Wilmington.

The second regatta of the series was held at Davidson’s own Lake Norman. A record ten teams competed in the
light and shifty breeze, the newcomers being Clemson and UNC Chapel Hill. Barclay McFadden, Gerla, Griffin Rankin, and Ivy captured
third place, losing only to Charleston and Vanderbilt. The Citadel had fallen and Davidson was itching to beat Vanderbilt the
following weekend in Clemson.

In conditions similar to the previous regatta at Davidson, McFadden, Gerla, O’Nell, and Ivy once again placed third. Although the
team had finally obtained a victory over Vanderbilt, The Citadel rebounded to capture second. The overall finishes in the three
regattas were not enough to beat Vanderbilt, who ranked second overall in the North. The Citadel’s surge at the end
resulted in a tie for third place. Davidson Sailing’s performance in all three regattas broke the tie in its favor,
giving the Wildcats the third place ranking in the North Section of SAISA and a berth to the championships.

In district championships, Davidson grabbed its highest place ever. Graham Ernst, O’Nell, Beasley, and Ivy easily dispatched The Citadel. Davidson
ultimately prevailed in fierce competition with Vanderbilt. Charleston placed first while two teams from the South section of SAISA, Eckerd
College and Florida, took second and third, respectively. The top two finishing teams move on to the Atlantic Coast Dinghy
Championships.

Women’s tennis looks to exciting spring
By Kerry Brophy
Staff Writer

The young women’s tennis team closed out another successful fall season despite the absence of players studying abroad this semester.
Freshman and sophomore players have seen ample opportunity to participate and gain tournament experience over the past few months, grabbing
victories in several regional team events.

“For a young team whose two captains are away, this group has really showed their strength,” said head coach Carolene
Price. “The Rolex results were outstanding, as were other strong performances throughout the fall season.”

The spring season is packed with eight tournaments against some of the top collegiate teams in the nation. The Wildcats
anticipate a national ranking of 100 or higher in 1997. The women’s team also hopes to advance to a top
ten regional ranking after being ranked 12th last year, and they look to capture the Southern Conference Championship in April.
Price believes the leadership and experience of the returning juniors and seniors will build on the team’s fall season achievements.
