MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1996 7 The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
MARY CLARE JALONICK

Arts & Living Editor
SUSAN RUGGIERO

Assoc. Arts & Living Editor
JILL WILLIAMS

Associate Editor
TERESA WHITE

Sports Editors
WILL BRADSHAW
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL

News Editor
MICHAEL KRUSE

Associate News Editor
RANDY HARTWELL

Photo Editor
BEN DeLISA

Opinions Editors
NINA BLOUNT
CARRIE BLACKBURN

Copy Editors
KRISTEN RICHARDSON
JILL WILLIAMS
DANIEL MOTZ

Cartoonist
GREG GARRISON

Business Manager
CAROLINE BYNUM

Advertising Managers
BETH BACON
MEREDITH LUCIUS

Circulation Manager
McNEIL CARSWELL

Web Page Managers
CLAY LENHART
BRAD CHASE
ERIC PENDERGRASS

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

ONE NIGHT OT & NEMCBY Bak... [| N, [5 THIS ALL a a TER COLLEse Lire Me Terent ATHOUGHT I'D
a Ya Wo) 1 NEVER ralg

Menace to Society?

Like sand through the hourglass ... Homecoming. A word that Davidson students associate with date functions and dressing up for
a football game, semi-formal dresses, and the beginning of fall. But for our graduates, homecoming becomes more literal. At parties
and games this weekend, familiar faces spanned many classes. Old friends came back with new lives — spouses, children, careers
— and met Davidson with happy memories and wistful nostalgia. They, as we do now, spent hours in the rooms
of Chambers and watched television in cramped lounges, attended parties on the court, and expected never to leave their second
home.

We walk the paths of Davidson at night, when all is quiet, and we feel that we are home, we
own the scenery, we will never leave — and when we go, Davidson will always be ours. Then we see
people living in our old rooms, our sacred comfort zones where we shared intimate moments and good times. Change becomes
ironically stable, and we learn to accept goodbye. Yet when we see the familiar faces of old, those who have
jumped off the cliff into graduated life, we realize how transitory life can be, and how many people own a
part of Davidson College.

We, as students, must look at the Davidson years or year ahead as a time to work hard, enjoy collegiate
social life, and prepare for our futures. But the future — a scary thought for most students — should not
dominate our life so much that we lose our vision of the present. What we do now is as important
as what we will be doing in a couple of years. College goes by so quickly — a blur if
you never slow down to catch a glimpse. Enjoy the present — the work, the fun. Enjoy life as it
is. Work on your future, but don’t worry about it. While you study hard, get internships, send off applications, don’t
lose yourself in the future — the present will be over before you know it; home will become a place
to return to, not to live.

To the Editors:

Since school resumed this August, the changes in the parking regulations on campus have made me quite angry. Being the
non-confrontational person that I am, I have let these changes slide by, though not unnoticed. However, the upcoming changes in
the parking laws in the town of Davidson are the straw that broke this camel’s back. It has disappointed and
saddened me to learn that the town of Davidson and its merchants look upon the students as a menace. After
all, there would not BE a town of Davidson if it were not for the founding of the college in
1837. Not even the Soda Shop can boast such longevity!

Who do the merchants think actually patronize their stores? Students, that’s who. I buy books at Main Street Bookstore; I
eat ice cream at Ben and Jerry’s; I buy greeting cards at the Village Store; I drink coffee at Cosmic
Coffee; I eat lunch at the Soda Shop; and I pay rent for my box at the Post Office just
like every other resident of the town of Davidson. How about the merchants of Main Street show the same support
for the students that we show to their stores?

In last week's Davidsonian, there was only about $25. I feel confident in saying that every student at Davidson has
spent at least that amount in trade on Main Street. And what about the other ways that students at Davidson
contribute to the town? Are the merchants and the citizens of Davidson totally oblivious to the hundreds of students who
volunteer in the community to make this a better place for all of us? Who do they think spends those
countless hours tutoring and befriending their children at Davidson Elementary?

If there is anything that is truly destructive to commerce on Main Street it is Tom Clark and his gnomes.
He and his gnome homes have consumed a third of the valuable storefront spaces on Main.Street. I propose that we
all have our voting registration shifted to the Davidsonian precinct for our four years. It would be interesting to see
how legislation would change if the 1600 students joined the mere 4000 locals at the voting booths. We could probably
even get a student elected mayor. And as for the nitpicking about parking spaces... First of all, I would argue
that living in Martin Court F places me as far, if not farther, from Main Street than most other citizens
of Davidson. Secondly, the town acts as if not making the parking spots between Concord and Depot Streets restricted is
some huge consolation. It’s only 11 spaces! Besides, does Main Street really do so much business that they need three
parking lots as well as all of Main Street down to the Admissions Office? When has anyone ever seen a
rush of locals in The Needlecraft Center anyway?!

The mess that the College has made of parking on campus this term is a whole other topic into which
I won’t go too deeply. My only comment is in regards to the so-called addition of parking behind the VAC.
Someone’s nose grew a foot when they reported that farce! The only changes made to parking behind the VAC was
the elimination of about ten student spots to be replaced with these new, seemingly useless, visitor spots (you know, the
ones with red paint). As for the students parking on the street, we were allowed to park in the grass
along the railroad tracks last year. The only change there is the painting of a few lines to make it
legitimate. Now that I know how the town of Davidson feels about the students of the college, perhaps I will
start patronizing the shops of Southlake in Cornelius. They have all the things that Main Street does, but arguably better:
a bookstore, a coffee shop, a sandwich place (which is surely a lot faster than trying to eat at the
Soda Shop, cheaper too), a Hallmark store, a mailing/shipping store, and a huge parking lot to boot!

Noni Nielsen '97

Inequality in all worlds

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. One copy per
student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.
Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the
editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per
year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editors:

The other day as I was reading The Davidsonian I came across an article entitled, “Yes I am an Angry
Feminist.” When I first came across this headline, I was extremely interested. As a person whose political views tend to
be somewhat left of center I felt that this article would be something that I would agree with. Unfortunately, I
was very wrong. The author of the article expressed her anger at the fact that many people fail to realize
that there are inequalities that exist between the sexes. While she is correct in addressing this problem, the examples she
cited did more to hurt her cause than to help it.

Throughout the article, the author cited examples of oppression of women in foreign, non-Western countries — predominantly the country of
Pakistan where the majority of citizens are Muslims. Not once in the entire article was an example of inequality in
the Western world cited. This perpetuates the beliefs of the very people that the author is trying to persuade. These
people believe that inequality between the sexes is something that has been eradicated in the U.S. and other countries with
a “similar culture.” Rather, inequality is only something that exists in far-off lands that people here have little contact with.
In my opinion, this is false. Percentages dictate that if there were no bias in this country, one-half of all
jobs would be held by men, and one-half would be held by women. Obviously, this is not true. It is
apparent that the chance that the person elected president of the U.S. will be a woman is well below 50%.
In contrast, Pakistan, the country which was so viciously attacked for its “oppression of women,” is one of the many
countries in the world that has elected democratically a woman as head of state. Other countries that have done so
include India, Bangladesh, and Turkey. All of which share strong cultural similarities with Pakistan. Perhaps these election results should be
ignored because they occurred in countries that “oppress women.” Or perhaps this reputed “feminist” should better define what she considers
equality.

Vinod Thomas '97
