THE DAVIDSONIAN
Dean Thomas Shandley and Dean Leslie Marsicano

OPINIONS | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1996

Campus Safety: The Balancing Act

We understand Robbie Lee’s anger and frustration with the incident that she was involved in and the treatment she received
on the night in which it occurred. As was stated to her, there is no good excuse why she wasn’t
accompanied by the police or someone else to help her find a magistrate early on a Saturday morning in Charlotte.
We very much regret the fear and inconvenience Robbie suffered from this oversight. We have been assured by the Campus
Police that this incident has resulted in a change in their protocol, and they will ensure that someone will accompany
a student should the need occur in the future.

Robbie also stated that this office “made it clear” that we did not like The Davidsonian article concerning this incident.
The incident itself is a matter of public record and should have been reported. We not only support that but
are thankful for it. However, we cannot provide the names of victims to the newspapers or comment about a case
that is part of on-campus judicial proceedings. If Ms. Lee chooses to talk to The Davidsonian or anyone else, that
is her right.

Robbie is right when she states that Davidson is not a paradise where you are always safe, despite our best
attempts to make it so. The student offender violated North Carolina State law and College policy by having knives that
are considered a weapon. (See pages 5, 6, and 37 of the Red Book and page 39 of the catalogue.)
We make every effort to communicate to you threats to your personal safety whenever we are aware of it. “Keeping
secrets” is not what was done in this case; protecting the privacy and due process rights of both the victims
and the accused was and always will be the case. Balancing the need for the community to be made aware
of threats to their safety with the protected privacy rights of individual students is both our challenge and our responsibility.

Finally, it is not unusual at larger, state universities for a portion of the student activity fee to be spent
on hiring attorneys to work on specific student needs. Their work often includes landlord/tenant disputes and other contractual relationships. However,
rarely do they represent one student against another. We urge Davidson students interested in such services to request them from
the SGA via the Activities Tax Council.

This was a terrible, unfortunate incident that is still not over for any of the individuals involved. We will continue
to do what we can for Robbie and the student who was injured. We will continue our efforts to ensure
that other students have the assistance they need no matter what hour of the night it might be. In addition
to the Campus Police, Hall Counselors, Resident Advisors, and representatives of the Dean of Students office are all available 24
hours a day and trained to respond when contacted. I hope our entire community can learn from a situation in
which excessive use of alcohol, anger, and a violation of state law led to an incident that disturbs us all.

CARTOONISTS & WRITERS SYNDICATE

SORRY, NO LICENSE. YOU TESTED POSITIVE FOR MIDOL. DMV DEPARTMENT of MOTOR VEHICLE

“I don’t know, the Editor did it while I was away.” Rupert Murdoch Kristen Richardson

It’s about time for some pontifications about Cornelius, that paradise I sometimes call “home.” Now that I am going to
turn right again and then I am going to go get an espresso at Caribou Coffee.” Rachel Anderson

Fascinating. Just go, dammit.

Alternatively, if you are like most Davidson students, your Christmas shopping was completed weeks ago, during that low time between
Fall Break and Thanksgiving when there is little to do around here. But you have a nagging feeling that one
item is missing. In addition to the Davidson T-shirts, Davidson mugs, and Davidson key rings, you sense that what your
family and friends really want for Christmas is a Creole pig.

Luckily, Creole pigs, along with eight acres of rainforest, solar cookers, and soybeans will be on sale during a community-wide
gathering and gift-fair held in the College Union from 2:00 to 4:00 on December 8th. The event, an Alternative Gift
Fair, is designed to give a new twist to holiday giving. The pig you purchase will provide a renewable source
of income for a household in Haiti as its offspring can be sold for profit or used to feed the
family. If you are interested instead in purchasing a solar cooker, your gift will be sent to individuals...in Ethiopia and
Kenya to be used as an energy-efficient method of meal preparation. The Chaplain’s office, the Chapel Committee, and various other
student organizations, including the Patterson Court houses and religious groups, are sponsoring the third annual Alternative Gift Fair with the
theme "Give the World a Christmas Present.” Items such as food, medical assistance, education, and shelter purchased in the name
of a loved one will be sent to people in need around the world. Shoppers receive Christmas cards with a
description of the gift and its destination, ready to mail or deliver as alternative gifts. The Alternative Gift Fair is
a great way to give a gift that will be shared by many. An entire village in Bangladesh will celebrate
acres of soybeans planted in their region, which will help ease the desperate food shortage. Families in Mozambique will rejoice
in the goats and ducks sent to populate their farms. Even simple gifts like a hot meal for homeless children
in Brazil or medicine for Rwandan orphans will help people who may not have been expecting a Christmas gift this
year and bring joy to donors and recipients alike. Other gifts on sale this year include wheelchairs and crutches for
victims of violence in Bosnia, building supplies for a community center in a low-income area along the U.S./Mexican border, and
job training for Palestinian refugees. The Christmas spirit can also be shared locally with a gift of meals for seniors
at Davidson’s Senior Nutrition Center or hours of after-school activities for Davidson youth at the Ada Jenkins Center. Since the
founding of the Alternative Gift Market, Inc. in 1980, annual fairs have been held in churches, schools, and organizations across
the country. The founder and president, Harriet C. Pritchard, believes that the “international projects are life-giving, life-saving, and life-extending, for
all races and religious groups. The Markets offer shoppers the opportunity to preserve our endangered planet as well as help
the hungry, sick, and homeless people around the world help themselves. Instead of shopping for presents friends and family here
may not need or even want, we can give gifts of hope and new life to a needy world.” So,
avoid the frantic crowds of shoppers and the frustration which often attends the holiday season and join the Alternative Gift
Fair in celebrating Christmas in a new way.

I am over the initial shock of living in Corntown, I have become more aware of my surroundings; this has
its downsides. Downside number one: I figured out that the glowing light which illuminates our balcony with an eerie glow
emanates from the largest mini-van dealership in the Carolinas. I am bathed in van lighting. Oh, how it hurts. If
you think that vans are the worst thing in Cornelius — and I understand this way of thinking — then
you don’t live there. The traffic puts the Cross Bronx Expressway to shame. Even though the potholes of the Cross
Bronx Expressway are large enough to house people (and they do) and people have been known to rappel down from
overpasses to rob you while you sit in traffic, I still prefer driving in NYC to driving in Cornelius. At
least in New York, the lights change. If they deign to change in Cornelius, you can’t go anyway because there
is some woman with frosted tip hair pretending to talk on her cell phone while checking her reflection in the
mirror. Cornelius is inhabited by people who pretend to talk into their cell phones. Imagine their conversations — “Well, first
I am going to turn right at the light, then I am traveling to and from Cornelius shouldn’t be difficult.
It’s just not worth the hassle. If I were lucky enough to live in Davidson then I would NEVER go
to Cornelius. Conversely, I would ride a big wheel if it were the only way to get to New York.
In the past six years, 600,000 people have moved to North Carolina. I think that they all live in Cornelius.
These are the same 600,000 people who voted for Jesse Helms. Thank you ever so much. You deserve him. Of
course, there’s no art to ban in Cornelius, unless you count some of the “sculptures” at Irma’s Lingerie, or the
bagel art at Bruegger’s. If you do count these things as art, you’d be happier than I am in Cornelius.
There are not as many foreigners to despise in Cornelius as Helms might like. Surprisingly, I did meet some Israelis
in Caribou Coffee. They were equally surprised to see someone reading an Arabic book. I ruined that potential relationship by
referring to how I would love to visit Palestine. Apparently, I am a little too candid with my political views.
One of my friends, okay, editors, said that I would probably get evicted for writing this piece. Everyone has a
dream.
