THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1996

SHOVELIN’ IT IN
Habitat: Freshman Seth Carpenter, Danny Jetton, Sophomore Joe Mahoney, Junior Andy Morris, and Danny Jetton, Jr. pose for the camera with their wheelbarrow.

CCRL from page 1
recommendation will result in a very minute change in our policy. There were some changes that we had to make in order to uphold the integrity of Davidson, decrease liability, and maintain a safe environment for Patterson Court — and I think we’ve done that. I am happy with the recommendation.” The CCRL also recommended that shut-off time for weekday parties be extended to 1:30 a.m. from midnight, and that risk managers be provided by the houses and serve “on a rotating basis.” They also asked that police officers patrol the Court in “zones” as opposed to one officer attending each party — this would reduce costs for each house. CCRL members hope that, if accepted, this policy would please most everyone involved. "We haven't [recommended the ban of kegs] without considering anything else," says member Senior Peter Verney: "That is hardly the case." However, he stresses that this is not the final word. “It’s not a decision, but a recommendation.”

Before these decisions were made, a well-attended open forum was held on Tuesday, April 2 concerning the alcohol policy. The forum offered an opportunity for those gathered to discuss the present alcohol policy and address the keg issue and was meant to be an informational session about the findings and recommendations of the self-study concerning the alcohol policy. Among the panelists were Beth Bell, Assistant Director to RLO and Advisor to Patterson Court, Bart Landis, General Counsel, John Cowan, President of Patterson Court, and Sara Beth Hamlin, Union Board President and subcommittee member. Dean Shandley, Vice President for Student Life, arrived later to join the panelists.

Many students seemed to discredit liability threats and blame the banning of kegs in Courthouses as a move to end Patterson Court. Bell insists, “this is not about ending the Court, but about saving the Court. We must play by the rules.” She says many have misinterpreted the administration’s intent, which concerns the interests of the students.

Minors from page 1
ment, including at least one course at the 300-level or above. Students may declare only one minor and must maintain at least a 2.0 cumulative grade point average. It specifies that pursuing a minor precludes pursuing a double major or a concentration. Not all students are pleased with the result of the vote. Senior Katie Tobin, who has been involved in the minors debate through her work with both the Academic Affairs Council and the Educational Policy Committee, does not support the institution of minors at Davidson. "I do think [minors] threaten a liberal arts education," she says. "I think [minors] may threaten concentrations... one of the neatest aspects of our curriculum." However, on the whole, student excitement runs high. Warren Buford, President of SGA, calls the vote a “great testament to hard work and good open communication between students and faculty.” Buford adds that “a lot of people need to be thanked for their efforts.”

8pm Andy O'Dell and White Bicycle Campaign
7:30-9pm Movie: Wild Bunch in the 900 room

Friday, April 19th:
4-7pm Student Bands: Chas Victory & the Desuaves, Miles Mowry, Moxie, Ecdysis, Squirrel Nut Zippers
Location: Richardson Field
Rain Site: Johnston Gym

Saturday, April 20th:
2:30-4pm The Jump Starts play on the Commons patio
2-6pm Jumpin’ Java Cafe in Outpost
8-10pm Comedy Club: 8pm Rob Weinstein

Sunday, April 21st:
8am-12pm Jumpin’ Java Cafe in Outpost

Monday, April 22nd:
Earth Day — Campus wide picnic 11-2 pm

Trustees will decide on tenure
By Naresh Nagella and Kirsten Recknagel
Assistant News Editors

Among other issues at their meeting this week, the trustees will vote on whether to grant certain professors tenure. Each faculty member on a “tenure track” contract must wait six years to receive word on whether they will receive the right of permanent employment. This guarantees the professor to say what he or she thinks inside and outside the classroom, “without fear of reprisal or loss of employment,” according to guidelines provided by the Dean of Academic Affairs’ office. After receiving the promotion, an Assistant Professor becomes an Associate Professor. Dean of Faculty Robert Williams says, “There are two major benefits to tenure: they...Protect the academic freedom of the faculty and the provision of job security (for the professor). Six professors are up for tenure this year. They are: Jonathan Berkey, History; Mauro Botelho, Music; Scott Denham, German; Vivien Dietz, History; Ken Menkhaus, Political Science; and Janet Shannon, Anthropology/Sociology.

Despite its benefits and its almost universal use in higher education, tenure has now become a controversial issue in academia. Some universities are having problems with what are termed as “deadwood” faculty, who, after receiving tenure, simply let their performance slide. When they cannot be fired, these professors might show little interest in their students, not maintain current knowledge in their field, or focus more on research than teaching.

Davidson, however, maintains the high quality of teaching by creating performance-based incentives for professors to keep up their high standards after receiving tenure. There are no automatic salary increases at Davidson—all salary increases depend on merit. According to Dean Williams, “The increases range from 0% to 15%. That's the one leverage that we still have (to maintain the high quality of teaching).” Theoretically, it could lead to a professor with 30 years of experience making the same as one that has taught for only 8 years.

Trustees ultimately award tenure, but their decision is based on recommendations from President Kuykendall. Kuykendall, in turn, hears from Dean Williams and department members. Excellence in teaching (based in part on student evaluations), maintaining a quality of scholarship, and service to the community are the basic standards which all professors must show to receive tenure. However, at Davidson, most emphasis is put upon the quality of teaching. Dean Williams stresses this. “You cannot get tenure at Davidson without being an excellent teacher,” he says.

National fraternity organizations, insurance companies, and the college. Some students expressed concerns about an end to the unique Davidson social life, characterized by open parties and free-flowing beer. Most agree that a ban on the keg would spell closed parties and a rise in pre-party drinking in residence halls. Many feel uninformed and excluded from the decision-making process. As Rix Threadgill says, “We need a clear line from the college. What control do students have? It seems like we have none.” Other students fear the many committees, whose representatives are mainly appointed, may confuse and complicate the communication of student concerns.

Although most students recognized the probability of a keg ban, many believe the school is being too hasty in deciding an alternate policy. Should the CCRL's recommendation be accepted, most of the fears expressed at the forum (except for the keg ban) will be allayed. Nevertheless, CCRL member and Union Board President Sara Beth Hamlin says, “This was a very important forum and I’m very glad to see such student input. All the opinions were valid and in the wake of minors, such student input and action can be very effective.” “This is a way to give the houses leverage in making their own responsibilities,” he says, “Our responsibility was getting in line with insurance.”

9pm Gerald Kelly

THE CONVERSION OF ST. PAUL
Friday, April 19 ~ 8:00pm
Sunday, April 21 ~ 8:00pm

“The Conversion of St. Paul,” a translation and contemporary adaptation by Gail Gibson of a late-15th century English saint play, will be performed outdoors on the front portico and grounds of DCPC. Like the medieval original, the DCPC production is notable for its memorable portrayal of the comedy of evil and of erring human pride, for its use of dance to mark scene divisions, and for its involvement of the audience who will process along with the narrator from “Jerusalem” to "Damascus" and who will join the narrator in singing a familiar hymn at the close of the play.

PLAY TO BE PERFORMED ON DCPC PATIO

Great Job Opportunity!
Childcare needed for full-time summer and part-time during the school year. Looking for someone energetic to take care of and entertain two energetic children ages 5 & 8 to do fun things like going to the park, swimming, and the movies. Must be responsible, have a car and a good driving record. Located in Wynfield subdivision in Huntersville.
Call Tina at 948-0012