THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 1996

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
MANDY CURTIS
BOBBY RAMSAY

Arts & Living Editor
JOHN COPENHAVER

Business Manager
KATHERINE HASH

Asst. Arts & Living Editor
TERESA WHITE

Operations Manager
WILL IAM EORLE

Associate Editors
JOSHUA BUCHANAN
RUSS TARVER

Sports Editor
MATT PITZER

Advertising Managers
MEREDITH BENKE
ANDY BOSWELL

Assistant News Editor
JOANNA JOHNSON

Photography Editor
ROB KOSICKI

Circulation Manager
CHLOE BROOKE

Opinions Editor
JEFF KENT

Asst. Photography Editor
BRANDON CLARKE

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Ah, Davidson

In four years we’ve seen the changing faces of Davidson. We’ve seen the building of a new Visual Arts Center
and a new Melrose Place apartment building. We've seen our soccer team to the NCAA Final Four hosted here at
Davidson. We've said goodbye to such major figures as Dean Will Terry, Athletic Director Terry Holland, and College Archivist Chalmers
Davidson. We’ve seen the end of a $160 million Campaign for Davidson. We’ve seen the growth of Charlotte and of
the greater Cornelius area. We’ve seen one of our fellow students win the Rhodes. We’ve seen John Kuykendall to the
end of his term as Davidson’s 15th president.

As far as changes go, these have all been quite significant. But as significant as these big changes have been,
the quieter, more subtle changes—those that might not make the front page but can be found buried on page four—are
what will strengthen and confirm the ideals behind the reality at Davidson. Three years ago we heard the stories of
racist and sexist behavior on the part of our fellow students; we saw attitudes we wanted to change. Four years
later, we see a campus striving for unity, inclusiveness, open-mindedness, and tolerance—goals, attitudes, and ideals manifested in the Habitat for
Humanity house, a new Ethnic Studies concentration, a well-supported FLAG group, and a co-ed hall. Though not breaking news at
Davidson, these changes in perceptions deserve as much credit.

Tradition, however, is as important as transition. As we move into the 21st century, we must strive to maintain the
basic principles that brought us here: honor, character, hard work, faith, and ingenuity. Believing in this place as a good
and positive environment, believing in community, believing in education—these traditions have become a part of all of us. These traditions
are what keep us together in the face of change.

In the coming years, Davidson will walk the tightrope between tradition and change. We challenge our successors at The Davidsonian
to continue as facilitators and communicators of these changes while remaining true to the history and integrity of Davidson. Recognizing
the power of the written and printed word, the importance of communicating ideas, and the necessity of an open forum
for student discourse, The Davidsonian must walk the fine line with Davidson in instigating change and perpetuating tradition. Perhaps this
task is a larger responsibility than we can even fathom. We trust that our new editors, John Copenhaver, Mary Clare
Jalonick, and Teresa White, will face the challenge and succeed with tenacity and grace.

As for our own staff, we couldn’t have printed the South’s Foremost College Weekly without the ability to crop photos
and download fonts. Special thanks goes to our beloved associate editors, William and Russ, for their hard work, energy, humor,
patience, and friendship. Without them The Davidsonian would not have the smart quotes that it does. We also thank our
seniors—Katherine, Schoon, and, well, okay, El Jefe—for their commitment to the paper, and in turn, to Davidson. Thanks for the
memories.

Mandy Curtis
Bobby Ramsay

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices
are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or
commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTERS

Thoughts on Pass/Fail

It is that time again: The deadline is fast approaching and students all over this campus are wondering to themselves,
“am I going to take a class pass/fail and if so which one?” The answer, unfortunately, is that we are
forced to make uninformed decisions which we often regret after our first grades are returned. My question is simple: Why
do we have to decide on pass/fail before why are we not allowed to exchange the pass/fail forour real grade
at any time in the semester? I have asked a great many people this question and no one has ever
given me an answer other than that’s just the way it is. In the following article, I will try to
convince you that that is not the way it should be. The most glaring problem with the current system is
that almost no one receives a grade in the first three weeks of class (the deadline for pass/fail). We are
forced to gamble on whether we should take a certain class pass/fail or not. As a result, this decision normally
is based on what we have heard from friends about how hard the class or professor is. This can either
lead to a person getting creamed in a class he/she thought they could handle or a person ending up with
an A- on his first test. He was really upset because he said if he hadn’t taken the class pass/fail
he could have worked hard and gotten an A or A-. What ended up happening was that he simply blew
the class off and passed. Many argue that the purpose of pass/fail is not to make GPAs better, but to
allow students to take classes outside of their major that they aren’t good at without having to worry about the
grade. Any student will tell you that the first part of this problem is bad, it is in the second
part where one finds the total contradiction to everything for which Davidson and academia stand. The current system gives no
incentive for students to try or learn in their pass/fail classes. A friend of mine took a class pass/fail and
then to my second question: If the student does the work and puts in the effort in a class, why
not allow that student to receive the grade he/she deserves? If a student takes a course pass/fail and then gets
an A or a B in it, see Pass/Fail on page 8.

Finding the meaning of service

To the editors,

I had been tutoring Tikeysie and her classmates all day, but she had not yet spoken to me. When it
was time to go home, the little first grader ran over to me and gave me a hug. Then she
asked, “Will you buy me something?” Surprised by her question, I replied, “What kind of something?” Finding my question equally
odd, she shrugged and said, “I don’t know. People who come here usually buy me something and then they leave.”

Encounters like this one and many others last summer had a profound effect on my idea of service. Although I
have always volunteered for a couple of hours a month in the community and tried to donate what I could,
as a Stapleton-Davidson intern, I realized that I did not have a clue what service was. Like many people, I
saw service as an activity. The message that my type of volunteer work sent was that I was there to
just fulfill some moral duty, which would have no effect on me once I left. One wise first grader showed
me that service is not about a few hours or a few dollars — it is about a way of
life. Service should be an integral part of all we do and in all our relations, whether we are interacting
with people in the inner city, friends, roommates, professors, coworkers, or parents.

If you, too, have a heart of service and are still looking for that perfect summer job, the Stapleton-Davidson Urban
Service Internship is an opportunity worth investigating. The internship offers students a $2500 stipend to work at a service agency
in inner-city Charlotte through a local church. Such service agencies range from serving as a counselor for a day camp
to counseling the homeless to offering emergency assistance to people in crisis. Furthermore, while gaining hands-on experience serving people and
learning about the details of social service, interns are also challenged to explore their call to serve through discussions with
ministers and other interns.

I encourage anyone and everyone to apply, for it is truly an amazing opportunity. But I must warn you: those
who undertake this job cannot escape without being permanently changed. Confronting the harsh and unsettling realities of the inner city
calls into question our beliefs and habits. But, while improving our service is never an easy thing, what we learn
is always worth the effort.

Sincerely,
Nicole Howard
