THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1996

Court presidents
By Beto Bacon
Staff Writer

The banning of common containers will have many effects on Patterson Court and social life at Davidson. Unfortunately, since the revised alcohol policy has not yet been completed, all of the effects are still unknown. Nonetheless, fraternities have begun preparing for next semester.

Pi Kappa Alpha President Dave Farrar says, “We’re going to purchase alcohol solely for the brothers at our functions.” Thus, members of other fraternities and eating houses and independents will have to bring their own. Farrar says, “About halfway through [the semester] we’re going to switch over to entirely BYOB so that we can apply our national charter and our insurance. That way we won’t be in violation of our insurance anymore.” Farrar doesn’t see a big change in the types of parties at PiKA. “Personally, I think it’s stupid to ban kegs and still have open parties because it’s going to be harder for the cops to control beer coming out of the basement.”

Sigma Phi Epsilon President Rix Threadgill agrees. “I believe it will force drinking more into the apartments and off campus. The idea of the Court was free beer, and that’s what the keg meant.” Hence, Threadgill foresees a decline in the number of open parties on campus. He says: “We’ve tried to push for the school policy to allow us to buy alcohol for the house. That’s the only thing that has saved us in the past because the school policy is over our national.”

David Wick, president of Kappa Sigma, encourages: “I believe it will force drinking more into the apartments and off campus. The idea of the Court was free beer, and that’s what the keg meant.” Wick sees a change in the number of open parties KA will have. “There will obviously be a decline in the number of parties we have because it’s going to be a lot more expensive to buy beer in cans,” he says.

Panelists discuss wide range of issues at FLAG forum
By Catherine Anderson
News Editor

In the intimate setting of the 900 Room before a crowded audience, three women told about their own experiences as declared bisexuals and lesbians. The forum, sponsored by FLAG, was mediated by sophomore Robert Knight, former president of FLAG, and sophomore Susan Plummer, current president. The forum addressed a wide range of issues, from experiences before coming out to relations with family and friends in the context of their sexual orientations.

The panelists all expressed concern with the reactions of family, friends, and the community in general, but most had not experienced outright discrimination, although “everyone has their silent forms of discrimination,” said senior Shayna Chazin. When asked why they chose to speak at the forum, each woman expressed a unique motivation: the decision was spontaneous for Chazin, and sophomore Arsiyanti Ardie attributed her motivation to spontaneity as well as to express her feelings concerning the recent religion issue and alternative lifestyles. As an active Southern Baptist, she says, “I don’t want to be ostracized. It’s still me.”

After the forum, Ardie felt good about her decision to speak. “I feel that it went well, it was actually nice that there weren’t as many people as last year because it made it more comfortable for us. Since then all of the feedback has been really positive — people have been really open.” Junior Adriana Arcia says, “One of the reasons I spoke was because when I was struggling with my own sexuality last year it helped me immeasurably. Most people see homosexuals as mythical creatures, but when people come out as those we know, they become more accepted to society.”

“I thought the forum went really well,” says Knight. “I was very proud of the three speakers, and I hope the audience has a greater understanding of their friends on campus.” Overall, the group felt like Davidson...was a receptive community and open-minded for the most part, and were pleased with the movement toward awareness that they had seen. “This college has definitely surprised me and is definitely going in a good direction,” said Knight. “I would encourage people to come out not only for their own well-being, but to set an example for society as those we know and love and talk to every day,” says Arcia. She would be willing to speak with anyone who has questions or concerns of their own regarding the matter.

Uniqueness of open parties at Davidson: “One of the main things that I want to work on, and that I challenge the students at Davidson to work on, is to keep the party system open and figure out a creative and logistic way to have a semi-BYOB system that works,” he says. Wick feels that the open parties are “the backbone for a successful social scene at Davidson.” He fears that the elimination of open parties would cause students to leave campus in search of other social settings.

Minors Update
By CATHERINE ANDERSON

Fraternity policy: The national organization “applauds” the banning of kegs and “does not ever want house funds to be used for alcohol.” Craig Murphy, president of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, also felt national pressure. “The increased pressure from the national organizations and the general liability concerns have pretty much made the banning of common containers inevitable,” he says. “It’s just unfortunate to see another one of Davidson’s unique social characteristics done away with.”

Murphy is unable to say whether or not there will be any changes at SAE other than the required ones. He says, “Davidson’s social functions might change. We’re in limbo right now, waiting on the formal wording of the alcohol policy. Once we hear that, then we'll try to decide as a house the best way to carry out social functions.” Phi Delta President Mike Ingram says, “I really don’t see anything changing too much, just a fewer number of parties and more brotherhoods.” He says, “We survived the change to just beer with one cup [coming up the stairs at a time]. I think we can survive going from kegs to cans and probably even eventually to BYOB.”

Eating house presidents are not sure what the new system will bring for their organizations, since national pressure is not an issue. Connor President Molly McGehee says, “To be honest, I don’t know which way we will go with this. Hopefully, we will go to an intermediary policy, between BYOB and kegs. It’s going to be difficult. We will have to wait until the fall to figure it out.”

French, Music minors for 1996-97 split year
News Editor

The Educational Policy Committee reviewed and approved the first minors proposals from the Departments of French and Music. Says French Professor Homer Sutton, “The French minor will consist of six courses of the 211 level and above, which must include a composition and conversation course, an introduction to French Literature course, a course in French culture or civilization, and three additional courses beyond 211, one being at the 300-level or above.”

Of the requirements for the pending Music Minor, says Chairman and Professor of Music William Lawing: “Basically, our minor is parallel to our major, but simply requires fewer courses. Where the major requires four courses in music theory, four courses in music history, a senior seminar, and one outside course, the minor requires two courses in music theory, two courses in music history, one outside course, and an additional course above the 200-level. The nice thing about a minor is that one can give a recital instead of taking a sixth class.”

The Art History Department has announced its plans to decline the invitation to offer minors. The two approved minors proposals will go before the faculty for a vote on May 7.

The Davidsonian is looking for 1996-97 editorial staff. If you are interested in getting to know the ‘in’ crowd, give us a call at 2148.

We provide individualized application through skill and product. All salons are not created equal. Ours was created with YOU in mind. We carry:
- Aveda
- Paul Mitchell
- Nexxus
- Senscience
- Biolage

my favvy SALON
704/895-0404
Norman Crossing Shopping Center
I-77, Exit 28--Cornelius, NC