~— The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
JILL WILLIAMS

Assoc. Arts & Living Editor
CAROLINE BYNUM

Business Manager
MARY CLARE JALONICK

Sports Editors
WILL BRADSHAW
GREG GARRISON

Cartoonist
TERESA WHITE

Associate Editor
MICHAEL KRUSE

Advertising Managers
BETH BACON
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL

News Editors
BEN DeLISA
MEREDITH LUCIUS

Photo Editor
RANDY HARTWELL

Copy Editors
CARRIE BLACKBURN
McNEIL CARSWELL

Opinions Editors
NINA BLOUNT
DANIEL MOTZ

KRISTEN RICHARDSON

Web Page Managers
CLAY LENHART
BRAD CHASE
SUSAN RUGGIERO
ERIC PENDERGRASS

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1996

LETTERS

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

In defense of Mrs. Claus

The twelve days of Christmas (at Davidson)

On the first day of Christmas, my true love gave to me, a condom in a Christmas tree.

On the second day of Christmas, my true love gave to me, two hours of sleep and a condom in a Christmas tree.

On the third day of Christmas, my true love gave to me, three take home tests, two hours of sleep, and a condom in a Christmas tree.

On the fourth day of Christmas, my true love gave to me, four ten-page papers, three take home tests, two hours of sleep, and a condom in a Christmas tree.

On the fifth day of Christmas, my true love gave to me, five Pak-is-tanis, four ten-page papers, three take home tests, two hours of sleep, and a condom in a Christmas tree.

On the sixth day of Christmas, my true love gave to me, six angry women, five Pak-is-tanis, four ten-page papers, three take home tests, two hours of sleep, and a condom in a Christmas tree.

On the seventh day of Christmas, my true love gave to me, seven damaged disks, six angry women, five Pak-is-tanis, four ten-page papers, three take home tests, two hours of sleep, and a condom in a Christmas tree.

On the eighth day of Christmas, my true love gave to me, eight maids a milking, seven damaged disks, six angry women, five Pak-is-tanis, four ten-page papers, three take home tests, two hours of sleep, and a condom in a Christmas tree.

On the ninth day of Christmas, my true love gave to me, nine layer dip, eight maids a milking, seven damaged disks, six angry women, five Pak-is-tanis, four ten-page papers, three take home tests, two hours of sleep, and a condom in a Christmas tree.

On the tenth day of Christmas, my true love gave to me, ten Davidsonian T-Shirts (sitting in the office please buy one they make a great gift), nine layer dip, eight maids a milking, seven damaged disks, six angry women, five Pak-is-tanis, four ten-page papers, three take home tests, two hours of sleep, and a condom in a Christmas tree.

On the eleventh day of Christmas, my true love gave to me, eleven pots o’ coffee, ten Davidsonian T-Shirts (sitting in the office please buy one they make a great gift), nine layer dip, eight maids a milking, seven damaged disks, six angry women, five Pak-is-tanis, four ten-page papers, three take home tests, two hours of sleep, and a condom in a Christmas tree.

On the twelfth day of Christmas, my true love gave to me, eleven pots o’ coffee, ten Davidsonian T-Shirts (sitting in the office please buy one they make a great gift), nine layer dip, eight maids a milking, seven damaged disks, six angry women, five Pak-is-tanis, four ten-page papers, three take home tests, two hours of sleep, and a condom in a Christmas tree.Damaged disks, six angry women, five Pakistanis, four ten-page papers, three take-home tests, two hours of sleep, and a condom in a Christmas tree.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editors:

Anticipating that there will be some letters and opinions articles in this week’s Davidsonian, we feel that it would be prudent to write a letter explaining the last-minute decision to have Mrs. Claus throw condoms from the roof of Chambers during the campus Christmas party last Tuesday. We have already heard complaints from some small factions of the campus (but many thanks to the many more who have been supportive) about the subject of condoms at a Christmas party. As most of the campus hopefully already knows, last week was AIDS Awareness week. It was in the spirit of this event that the decision was made to throw the condoms.

While some may argue that talk of AIDS is not “in the Christmas spirit” or “appropriate” at a Christmas party, we have to disagree. Every 15 minutes an American dies of AIDS. 90% of new HIV cases are contracted through heterosexual sex. By age 21, one in four Americans will require treatment for sexually transmitted diseases. There are few, if any, things more important than helping to save someone’s life, no matter what holiday season it is.

As for the comment that “everyone already knows to use condoms,” unfortunately even Davidson students are having unprotected sex. AIDS is a frightening reality, and it can happen to anyone, including Davidson students, whether it’s through unprotected sex, blood transfusions, drug needles, etc. Even if no one at the Christmas party acquires HIV, they will at some point know someone who does. Shouldn’t education, awareness, and prevention of a life-threatening disease be a priority, whatever the occasion?

We do realize that, unexpectedly, there were a few small children in attendance that night. If this caused any uncomfortable situations for Davidson parents, then we do apologize. However, we hope that any parent would realize that when they bring a small child onto a college campus at 9:30 at night, there is a risk that they will be exposed to “adult subject matter,” and will therefore forgive us. We can assure you that at the Community Christmas party this Sunday afternoon in the Union, the only grown-up “thing” was Dr. Manning dressed as the Grinch.

While we are sorry if some people let this spoil the party for them, we believe that conversations sparked on campus by this “controversial” issue have been valuable.

Sara Beth Hamlin, Union Board President
Jenny Everett, Co-Curricular Vice President
Sherry Malushizky, Assistant Director for Programs
Brian Campbell, Campus Forum Chair
Jennie Geada, Cultural Events Chair
Joselyn Schultz, Women’s Issues Chair
Laurie DeVegter, F-CREW
Meagan Mitchell, Films Chair
Dan Mojonnier, Member at Large
Catherine Ursery, Publicity
Britton Taylor, Social Vice President

Looking for the perfect gift? You just might find it in The Davidsonian office. T-shirts, $8.00 (marked down for Christmas!)