4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

College to build new

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1996

NEWS
OH COME ALL YE FAITHFUL

physical plant shop
behind WDAV

By IAN HUMMEL
Staff Writer

Construction will soon begin on a new consolidated shop and warehouse building for the Physical Plant.

The new building will give some of the various divisions of the Physical Plant a more centralized location in which
to work.

These shops are currently spread out across campus in temporary locations, such as the basement of Johnston Gym, that are
not very accommodating in terms of space or efficiency.

Due to the fact that “just about every shop overlaps,” Associate Director of the Physical Plant Philip Cashion says that
the new building will be a significant aid to the smooth running of the Physical Plant.

He hopes it will also alleviate the problem of cramped space that some of the shops now face.

Blueprints for the building are already drawn and the Physical Plant is now in the process of obtaining the permit
to begin construction.

Cashion expects that this permit will be granted within the next couple of weeks and that construction will begin soon
after Christmas.

Once begun, Cashion says that the building should take eight to ten weeks to complete.

The building will be located behind the WDAV radio station, near the edge of campus.

Two children are entertained by a singer next to Ben and Jerry's. At Christmas in Davidson last week, children had
the opportunity to visit with Santa, make Christmas cards at the town hall, and make decorations for Davidson’s small town
Christmas tree at the library. The college’s drama department presented the play “Christmas Gifts: Favorite Stories, Songs and Poems Wrapped
in Christmas Paper” on Thursday and Friday as part of the festivities.

Sherry Adams, with Davidson Parks and Recreation Department, describes Christmas in Davidson as “wonderful...It’s really family-oriented and has a lot
of style.”

Cashion says that the new building will be a significant aid to the smooth running of the Physical Plant.

The Duchess Nail, Hair & Tanning Salon
Full service salon for women & men

Will Nolen
892-7030
"Best Prices in Town"

If you didn't get a lime green RLO survey from your Hall Counselor or R.A., pick one up at the
Residence Life Office on the first floor of Belk.

Tanning
"Hottest Bulbs in Town"
$4.00 per session * $33.00 for 10 sessions
$43.00 for 15 sessions * $50.00 for 20 sessions

Get your parents a subscription to The Davidsonian for Christmas, only $17.50 for the second semester. Send it to P.O.
Box 219, Davidson, 28036.

Treat yourself...you deserve it
Ask for Connie, Michelle, or Susan

The Village Store — serving Davidson College students for over 30 years!

RedKen Hair Products & more...

CANCEL YOUR LIBRARY FINES

Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus!

From December 2nd until December 18th you can pay your Library fines and IOUs with cans of food which will
be given to the needy in our area.

HOW: One can of food will cover up to $1.00 of overdue fines or IOUs. (For example, you can cover
$4.50 in fines with five cans of food)

WHERE: Library circulation desk

Christmas shopping at the Village Store on Main Street Davidson is fun and easy with loads of great choices, free
wrap service, and UPS shipping service offered for store purchases.

Go home wrapped and ready to relax... and have a great holiday!

110 S. Main Street in Historic Downtown Davidson

Located 1/2 mile south of Davidson College Campus
20700 N. Main St.
