OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 25, 1996 : Gull’s Nest: Bill Gullan

U.S. News should not have Davidson to kick around any more

Why do we have such a passion for self-definition? Humans do; we rant on incessantly about who we think we are. Institutions do as well; we study ourselves and wait with bated breath as a national news magazine computes where we fit on some meaningless scale.

The Self-Study in which we now find ourselves engaged is undeniably useful. It allows us the opportunity to comprehensively evaluate Davidson College, while challenging us to see ourselves as outsiders might see us. The benefits are manifold, presuming that our goal is self-improvement above self-esteem, and we enter the process with an open mind rather than an individual agenda.

However, this column is aimed at convincing the powers that be around this place to stop competing in rankings systems such as that which we feel wronged us this past year, the U.S. News and World Report. The desire to continue submitting ourselves to such an inaccurate and trivial quantitative measure is the ultimate in the quest for self-congratulation. “Fishing for compliments,” some call it. Often, like last year, casting that rod results in a shark bite, or at least a scare.

Raising such an issue this time of year is asking for my column to be glossed over by hungry eyes in search of diatribes against demeaning and marginalizing events like a silly fraternity party. I'll let my colleagues sink their teeth into such juicy and substantial topics. But, for those of you that are still with me, let me explain to you why, practically and philosophically, submitting ourselves to a wrong-headed, uninformed scrutiny is a bad idea.

First, the practical side. It has taken a long time, but Davidson has attained a strong enough national reputation that such devices are no longer necessary for recruitment. Our applications have increased exponentially in the last decade, and the added legitimacy of being listed with the famous schools provided is not likely to be much of a factor anymore. Those of us from places where Davidson’s reputation used to be spotty at best, formerly sustained ourselves with the fervent belief that those who needed to know knew. Now, knowledge of and respect for Davidson is no longer limited to corporate recruiters and Southern-born college counselors. A strong prospective student who is uninformed about Davidson is to blame for that, not our regionalist outlook.

Secondly, U.S. News fed us for years, but this year bit our hand. We brandished the sword of high national rankings, and it is only fair that we should now die by it. The way they rank changes every year; this time, they diminished the influence of the categories in which we always have fared well. It is possible that shock waves like those felt this year will emanate from administrative offices all over campus again a decade from now, when we drop from #3 to #11. This game is a crapshoot. There are no assurances that the glory we feel we deserve will be heaped on us every year. The time spent assuring everyone that Davidson’s quality of education has not dramatically declined in one year’s time could be better spent.

Now, to the philosophical. First, no institution can truly be judged as the sum of its parts. Adding up the statistics in each area somebody feels is important does not provide an accurate measure any more than adding up the batting averages will yield the winner of next year’s World Series. Tell me, is the Honor Code included in the rankings? How about the sense of community we all feel? And what about our passion for service? Davidson is more than its student-teacher ratio plus our average SATs. We embody a spirit these rankings could never quantify.

Lastly, do we want students who pay excessive attention to these rankings? Encouraging students to look us up, find we’re highly rated, and apply, smacks of fakery and phoniness. Students that do so demonstrate characteristics we should abhor: credentialism, the willingness to be a follower, the search for a shortcut, and the weakness to allow another’s distant opinions to interfere with the process of making up one’s own mind. These are not the kind of students we presently have, nor should anyone spineless enough to be swayed by meaningless rankings and fraudulent enough to ensure that his/her college be rated a certain way ever receive admission to this institution. Rankings, like college guides, may help someone find the ballpark for which they’re looking, but should never pinch-hit for the rational final judgment of one’s own heart and mind.

We are doing fine. We do not need a magazine to validate us, nor should we want people to whom that validation means too much. Let us tell U.S. News what it really needs to hear; that Davidson College will no longer slavishly take part in their sweepstakes, whether they defame or honor us. We know who we are, and it is that we should continue to be.

Jonathan Pieslak

‘Real’ music is possible at Davidson

We are not a service. The music department and the numerous students who participate in the instrumental and vocal ensembles do not exist for the benefit of high-level administration. We perform and study music because we are talented musicians who derive a serious meaning from music; we do not perform so Davidson’s administration can enhance its public image. Apparently, the powers-that-be do not feel this way. They ask us to provide musicAt parents' weekend, graduation, and over our entire spring break on tour; yet our facilities are dismal. How can over 200 students be expected to practice their instruments and voice in 7 resonant practice rooms that aren’t even soundproofed? Why do termites make annual appearances in the classrooms of Cunningham? Compared to the respect and facilities given to other music departments at comparable liberal arts institutions (Carleton, Oberlin), we look pathetic. Considering these factors, the level of musical achievement at Davidson is phenomenal. The level of performance of the various ensembles is remarkably high for groups of non-music majors, and I consider it an honor to have had the opportunity to play with such immensely talented musicians. This is not only due to the devotion of the students but to the abilities of our music faculty. They are highly regarded professors within their fields and pour their time and effort into what is considered a service. Well, maybe it’s not so much of a service anymore. They have produced a number of first prize winners at NATS, a national jazz scholarship winner, and two (of the two who applied) acceptances into highly regarded composition graduate programs. Contrary to the administration’s belief, music is an academic discipline and these professors should be given the same respect as any other department on campus. Upgrading their facilities would be the appropriate way. They could transform the old Union into a performing arts building, or better, build a new music building next to the VAC. Plus, we just campaigned for over $250 million, so we have the money. Finally, I would like to thank all of the students, faculty, and staff who have supported the musical life at Davidson. Without your support, our program would have crumbled, and I am deeply grateful to the innumerable people who have offered their encouragement during my four years at Davidson. You have helped me grow as a person and a musician. ‘Real’ music is possible at Davidson and the administration should make the effort to improve our facilities and develop the immense potential within the students and faculty of the music department.

We need you to make recycling work at Davidson:
- Sort recyclables on Friday at 4 pm with the recycling committee or on your own with a group of friends (call Helen x6542).
- Pick up recyclables at Senior Apartments at 4 pm on Wednesdays (call Jenn x6827 or Marc x6648).
- Deposit plastic, aluminum, glass, newspaper, or paper in recycling bins all around campus.

- Jenn Sheutz

FACULTY VOICE
Sally McMillen
Associate Professor of History

An Inspirational Woman

Currently, students in my American Women’s History class are reading a new biography of Fannie Lou Hamer, the famous Civil Rights activist who fought oppression, injustice, and racism in Mississippi during the 1960s. Hamer was the most visible member of the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party (MFDP) and one of the most inspirational women I have discovered. In the midst of Women’s Month and campus-wide discussions of sexism, feminism, and related issues, we should take time out to ponder what someone like Fannie Hamer achieved. This was a woman identified by a life of poverty and oppression, relying on her deep faith in God and incredible inner strength. She did not have time to ponder what it meant to be a woman, what role she should play, or who she might offend by protesting and demanding her rights. Nor was she someone who had the opportunity to consider life options; there were few choices in Hamer’s life. This was a woman raised among the poorest of the poor, a child whose grandparents were born into slavery, a sharecropper who began to pick cotton at the age of six, someone unaware of her Constitutional right to vote until she was in her 40s, and a woman who fought to overturn unjust laws so that she and other black Mississippians could vote. Hamer was jailed, threatened, and beaten. She suffered lifelong ill health as a result of those beatings and lost her job and home. Yet she never displayed anger toward her oppressors and even forgave those who beat her. Though she knew her activism was a risk to her own personal safety, she never gave up the fight.

In class discussions last week, students offered sensitive reactions to Hamer. Some had never heard of her; others had never read a biography of anyone who overcame such odds to struggle for a cherished goal, who was so loving and forgiving amidst widespread violence, and who wouldn’t compromise when she knew the righteousness of her cause. (“We didn’t come all this way for no two seats...when all of us is tired,” she declared when the Democratic Party in 1964 offered the MFDP only two seats to represent the state’s entire African American population.) When life seems overwhelming (as can be the case at Davidson), when battles seem scarcely worth fighting, when people are uncivil, or when we lose heart trying to change ingrained attitudes that just won’t change, we need a Fannie Lou Hamer in our lives. She reminds us of what is really important and offers the inspiration of someone who sacrificed everything to right wrongs and reshape our crazy world. Thirty students in History 352 have been touched by this incredibly brave woman. They hardly need to debate the importance of female assertiveness and self-confidence or to define feminism. Hamer personifies all these. She persevered and fought to undo what she knew to be unjust. She embodies so much that we admire in those who leave an indelible mark. May we all engage in even a small portion of what Hamer accomplished and fight our battles with equal energy and commitment.