DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS | October 28, 1996 16

Football drops squeaker to Randolph-Macon

By Aaron DUNHAM
Staff Writer

For the second time this season, Davidson entered a football game as a big underdog and came up just short.

After nearly knocking off Division III power Emory & Henry a month ago, the Wildcats fell 31-24 to a strong Randolph-Macon team before 2,358 fans at Richardson Field Saturday.

A 7-yard touchdown run by reserve running back Adrian Hughes with 55 seconds remaining proved to be the decisive score.

“Our defense was on the field a lot in the fourth quarter and was probably a little worn down,” admitted Davidson coach Tim Landis after the game. The Wildcats were outscored 21-7 in the final period.

Davidson (3-4) outgained the Yellow Jackets in total yards (411-346) and took a 10-7 lead into the locker room after Dunn Mileham booted a career-best 50-yard field goal.

The Wildcats led going into the fourth quarter before Randolph-Macon (5-2) mounted two consecutive scoring drives. Mike Klazas, who led the Yellow Jackets in rushing (67 yards), scored touchdowns on both of those drives to propel his team ahead.

The Wildcats responded with a six-play, 80-yard drive that ended with Tommy Dugan firing a 27-yard touchdown strike to Ronald Williams that tied the score. 

Randolph-Macon answered with a drive that was capped by Hughes’s scoring run. 

Tommy Dugan threw three consecutive completions and brought the ‘Cats to the Randolph-Macon 47 before being picked off by Joe Seetoo. Dugan completed 12-of-28 passes for 217 yards with a touchdown and two interceptions on the day.

“It was hard to go in the locker room. We made some big plays today and I’m proud of our kids, but we wanted to win.”

---

Aaron Kudoch
Fullback Eric Ferguson (13 rushes for 58 yards) dives into the end zone for a first-quarter score to put the Wildcats on top, 7-0.

---

Happy 40th Birthday Coach Cooke!

We've been waiting a long time for this!

Love, Mom, Dad, Pete, George, Sue, John, Brian, Julie, Denise, & John