THE DAVIDSONIAN — MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1996

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors
Arts & Living Editor: SUSAN RUGGIERO
Cartoonist: GREG GARRISON
MARY CLARE JALONICK

Assoc. Arts & Living Editor: JILL WILLIAMS
Business Manager: CAROLINE BYNUM
Associate Editor: TERESA WHITE

Sports Editors: WILL BRADSHAW, BETH BACON, KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
News Editor: MICHAEL KRUSE
MEREDITH LUCIUS

Associate News Editor: RANDY HARTWELL
Photo Editor: BEN DeLISA
Circulation Manager: McNEIL CARSWELL

Opinions Editors: NINA BLOUNT, CARRIE BLACKBURN
Copy Editors: CLAY LENHART, KRISTEN RICHARDSON, JILL WILLIAMS
Web Page Managers: BRAD CHASE, DANIEL MOTZ, ERIC PENDERGRASS

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

LETTERS

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at: http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

No Opinions, Please.

Facing Depression

Sex, Alcohol, and Self-Esteem. Ten free sessions. Take Back the Night. Body-image discussion group. Faces of Depression. These are all faces of depression. Davidson works actively to relieve the symptoms but not to heal the wound. So we patch it with band-aids. Rough fall semester? Try going abroad in the spring. Many of us who choose to study overseas profess a commitment to the understanding of a global village. “I really want to expand my horizons,” we tell ourselves. Yet, another reason, sometimes omitted but often not, is the burning desire to be away from Davidson. Why? This is a nice place. Meals are prepared for us. Our clothes are washed. Lawns are mown. Bike thefts are the biggest offenses to reach crime reports. ATM machines and the post office are nearby. People smile. What’s wrong?

Many people are happy here. But many of those who are not find themselves trapped in a place without many outlets, confined to carrels and computers, studying away their negative energies and ticking off the days until the next break. Why do we see this so often here? Possibly, those depressed would be so at any college. But more likely than not those who dislike our idyllic little school are struggling with claustrophobia: a disease induced by the one-sidedness of our social life and the three-sidedness of the typical library carrel. A lot of this is college in general, not Davidson College.

In The Davidsonian office late last Sunday night, four of us took the self-screening test for depression. To our amazement, we all tested super positive. Yes, we all found that irritability, changes in sleeping pattern, fatigue, inability to concentrate, changes in weight, and restlessness were regular parts of our Davidson experience. Ironically, we took the test laughing and joking. Depression day will not solve true depression problems. Most college students find themselves acting irregularly due to workload, not due to depression. True depression has roots much deeper than can be solved in a phone call to a one-day-only hotline. Many unhappy students rise above it—most do, apparently, judging by our retention rate. This exemplifies the love/hate factor.

Davidson is a wonderful place, for many reasons. But many find that we have problems not addressed by the administration: is the workload equal to the difficulty of our classes? How can we work with the town to establish more off-campus hangouts for students? Why are major weekends for alumnae structured around fraternities? How can we encourage more students to get involved on campus? Why are fewer students involved every year, but over-studying more? How can we slow the burn-out that leaves so many students exhausted at the end of their sophomore year? How do we help alleviate the causes of excessive abuse (drugs, alcohol, food, sex)?sleep-deprivation, et al.) students find comfort in? How can we help students recognize and handle their problems instead of fostering systematic denial and escapism? We recognize that not everyone, and (we hope) not the majority, are depressed or have trouble managing their problems. Davidson is a school that probably attracts students who place high levels of stress onto themselves, and students who are used to throwing themselves full-throttle into most everything they do, whether studying or partying; regardless, this does not absolve the school of its responsibility to actively help create a healthy environment to learn—and live in.

To the Editors:

The following is a general address to Sabine Heller, regarding her original article, “Yes, I am an angry feminist” (Sept. 23), and her recent response, “In my defense, for the time being” (Oct. 7). Sabine Heller has made two serious mistakes in the course of her protracted fuming in The Davidsonian’s forum. First, she errs in assuming that anyone should listen to what she has to say solely because she is furious. No one besides Ms. Heller’s roommate has any reason to care whether she’s angry or not. The distinction between “feel” and “think”—and the distinction is profound—obviously eludes her. In her second Davidsonian piece, she begins the middle portion of her defense with the words, “I feel that it is crazy to infer.” We all have feelings, but they’re best left in the hands of close friends or trained professionals, not the student body as a whole.

Ms. Heller makes her second serious error when she mistakes intelligent disagreement for obtuseness and ignorance. Of the statement “Men and women [in society] are pretty much equal,” she writes, “It is precisely this level of ignorance that infuriates me.” The arrogance she demonstrates is ridiculous. Respect for the possibility that reasonable people can disagree while remaining reasonable is not too much to expect on a college campus, even an unenlightened campus like Davidson’s. Unfortunately, for Sabine Heller, there’s no reason for any of us to tune in to her tirades when all we’re going to hear is a lot of heavy breathing.

Jim Stuntz '99

Thank you

To the Editors:

Thank you very much for the generous space you gave to the National Depression Screening Day efforts in The Davidsonian. This is the second year we have sponsored the participation of our campus in this national effort to increase awareness and knowledge of the illness depression. Last year we had many students come to the Counseling Center after the program, people who might not have thought to otherwise. I expect that we will have the same result this year. I appreciate your willingness to help us in this and other efforts to educate the campus community about important mental health issues.

DeWitt Crosby, Ph.D.

Roast oxen for Pakistan

To the Editors:

As a Pakistani at Davidson, I launch a “strongly worded protest” with you regarding your recent article by Yanti Ardie that claimed that Pakistanis do everything around food. To show our displeasure, I call on all friends of Pakistan to join in a whole-roast-oxen barbeque outside the Davidsonian office.

Sincerely,
Saad Gul ‘97

You can still get your T-Shirt! Only $10.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

All the cool kids are wearing them.