THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING

Cutting the chill

Sherri Jackson tries to defrost the 900 Room

By Matt Forge
Staff Writer

Last Monday, Sherri Jackson and her two bandmates took to the stage on a freezing winter’s night. The small crowd that braved the cold was hoping that the music would distract their thoughts from the weather. The band had an arsenal of instruments on display — violin, two acoustic guitars, wood blocks, maracas, a cowbell, bongos — to try to combat the ice and snow as they provided musical fellowship for the evening.

The band’s first number, a Tracy Chapman cut called “Mountain O’ Things,” was a wonderful intro. The red stage lights warmly tinted the band as Jackson’s sensual vocals coated the music. Her voice conjured nostalgia as she lazily swayed her hips in time. The three players fused together to form the funky ethnic sound that made them worthy of their opening gig with Rusted Root.

The band members quickly displayed their loose style, discussing with the sparse crowd the night’s crucial episode of Melrose Place. Sherri met an awkward silence when the lifeless crowd could not answer her questions about one certain character’s fate on the show. Nevertheless, they enjoyed themselves immensely, laughing throughout the show and cracking inside jokes that sure must have been funny.

As the intimate concert progressed, the audience was witness to a breakdown of the band into separate parts. Each member seemed to have a separate agenda. The drummer, Brian, dominated the band, providing beats too complicated for the simple songs. He often played the bongos with one bare hand while tapping a bell, a cymbal, a wood block, or whatever might be nearby with the other. As if it wasn’t clear enough that he was talented, perhaps more talented than his mates, he had to play a drum solo all by himself.

Glenn, the bassist, and Brian would often team up with each other to provide a sound separate from Sherri’s. A prime example would be a medley that the band created. Sherri grabbed her fiddle and cutely plucked a little ditty all by herself about living in a jail cell. Then, out of nowhere came this tsunami of dirty bass and drums. My friend recognized that “Alice in Chains” was in the house. Sherri stomped on her effects pedal and her fiddle transformed into an electric wah-wah device. The number had collided into Jimi Hendrix’s “Voodoo Child.” Glenn took to the mike as he and Brian provided the 70s funk that they seemed fascinated by. Little Sherri was left to keep up with her fiddle. She was often left behind with only her vocals and wimpy guitar while Brian and Glenn jammed like high-school garage grunge buddies.

All in all, Sherri Jackson and band were nice when they were a cohesive unit, providing head-nodding, acoustic-ethnic grooves, but they rarely came together. Sherri’s voice, like a mother’s singing a feel-good song to her children, was often lost in the throbbing percussion and twangy bass. When I left, I was still very cold and I had a slight headache.

College Kitchen

Less work means more fun with “One-Skillet"Spaghetti" By Ros Kosick & Jay Shultz

Free Play Basketball bounces through Johnston Gym 3:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m.

Jumpin’ Java Café starts your week out right in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.

Coffeehouse perks your mornings up in the 900 Room 8 a.m. - 11 a.m.

Free Play Basketball same time, same place.

Ghanian Cooking Workshop gives you a taste of something a bit eccentric 6 p.m. - 8 p.m.

Jumpin’ Java Café makes for a steamy Tuesday in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.

Twenty-one Year Old Night brings the night alive in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

AVGSAN_L p.m. Room 7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m.

Free Play Basketball in Johnston Gym 3:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m.

Rap On Race promotes good race relations in the 900 Room.

Higher Learning entertains us scholars in the 900 Room.

Crop Lunch feeds the hungry in the 900 Room 11 a.m. - 2 p.m.

Free Play Basketball, need I tell you again? Same time, same place.

Movie about higher education? Higher Learning in the 900 Room 8 p.m. - 10 p.m.

The end of the week is finally here! Why not celebrate it with a Jumpin’ Java Café wakes you up for a long night out at the Outpost 2 p.m. - 6 p.m.

Casino Night in the 900 Room gets you into that gambling mood 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.

AVCHN_LVS studying in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.

Jumpin’ Java Café warms you up for a long night of Chefs-in-Residence.

This unique recipe was given to us by a dear friend, Joan Chuk. Although we have yet to try it for ourselves, she assures us that it will satisfy even the most stubborn taste buds. The recipe will cut down on the number of dishes to wash since the spaghetti cooks in the same skillet. It can also be served as a vegetarian dish, just drop the ground beef. For this recipe, you will need the following:

1 lb. ground beef
1 large onion, chopped
1 package (7 oz.) spaghetti
1 can (28 oz.) diced tomatoes, undrained
3/4 cup chopped green pepper
1/2 cup water
1 can (8 oz.) sliced mushrooms, drained
1 tsp. chili powder
1 tsp. dried oregano
1 tsp. sugar
1 tsp. salt
1 cup (4 oz.) shredded cheddar cheese

Let technology into your life. This week’s dates:

February 14: Netscape, 4-5, Chambers 301
Attend Computer Center training workshops.

February 13: WordPerfect 6.1, Level 4, 2-5, Preyer Training Room
Quattro Pro for Windows, 9-12, Preyer Training Room

February 15: Quattro Pro for Windows, 9-12, Preyer Training Room
Telnet, 4-5, Chambers 301

February 19: SuperPaint for the Mac, 3:30-5, Chambers 301

In a large skillet, brown beef and onions on medium-high heat; drain excess grease. Stir in uncooked spaghetti (you may have to break it in half) and all remaining ingredients except the cheese. Place on high heat and bring to a boil. Once it starts boiling, reduce heat to low, cover, and simmer for 30 minutes or until spaghetti is tender. Sprinkle with cheese and heat until melted. This will serve at least four people. In the event that anyone actually reads this article and tries the recipe, let us know how it turns out.

...Until we cook again.

Register by calling -2097 or -2503.