2 _ THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS BRIEF

Goodall lecture sold out.

Wear black to hear Jane Mead read her poetry at the Outpost on Thursday at 7 p.m. It’s traditional.

NEWS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1996

In focus ... Student voices

What do you think of instituting cat cards off-campus and where would you like to be able to use cat
cards?

“I think cat cards off-campus would be a really great idea. I would use mine at the Soda Shop and
Ben & Jerry’s. I don’t do Cosmic Coffee, but it would be good to be able to use them there
too.”
Adrienne Nixon ’98

“I think it’s a great idea. My friends and I have actually discussed the convenience of being able to use
cat cards off-campus at some restaurants and stores, and especially for those late-night pizza deliveries. Other schools and universities, such
as Emory, have implemented similar programs where most of the businesses surrounding the school accept the student’s ID as a
form of payment. I think it would make my life a whole lot simpler.”
Melissa Platman ’00

“I don’t think it would be of very much use.”
Jay Erter ’99

“I think it would be a great idea to have cat cards off-campus. As far as places—Exxon and any of
the assorted fast food restaurants, and even Harris Teeter and Bi-Lo. Also, the Union desk and the 900 Room, especially
on 21-year-old night.”
Kris Horrocks ’97

“Fast food places in Cornelius.”
Ainsley Natta ’99

“Yeah, that’s a great idea to have cat cards off-campus. I’d use mine at Harris Teeter, Dover’s, maybe the hairdresser.”
Prashant Kaishap ’00

“I think cat cards off-campus will be more trouble than they’re worth. Even if some local businesses actually agree to
the system, students aren’t going to want to be restricted to in-town usage. If Cornelius agrees... now that’s a different
story.”
James Berry ’97

Flying somewhere for Thanksgiving Break?

Need a ride to the airport?

The SGA Rides Committee is offering rides from Davidson to Charlotte International Airport on Tuesday, November 26 and rides from
the airport to Davidson on Sunday, November 31.

Sign up this week at the Union Information Desk.

DISCOVER CARD

SPRING BREAK

It Pays To Discover! Use Your Discover Card And Save Up To $25! To Apply For A Card, Call 1-800-IT-PAYS-TO.

Bahamas Party Cruise $279
6 Days * All Meals * Free Parties * Includes Taxes

Cancun $399
7 Nights * Air * Hotel * Save $150 on Food & Drinks

Jamaica $419
7 Nights * Air * Hotel * Save $150 on Food & Drinks

Florida $119
7 Nights * Panama City, Daytona & Cocoa Beach

Spring Break Travel - Our 10th Year!

It takes a village: Habitat House nears completion

By ALLISON DOLPH
Staff Writer

A full year of brainstorming, fundraising, and construction led to the celebration of the completion of the Jetton family’s Habitat
for Humanity home last Sunday.

In the summer of 1995, eight Davidson students helped build a Habitat house in Jacksonville, Florida. Two of them, Smita
Donthamsetty and Meredith Strong, returned eager to start a similar program here.

With Catherine Turner as co-chair, the Habitat committee was launched at the beginning of the 1995-96 school year.

The initial challenge was fundraising. The committee had to raise a total of $40,000, or roughly $20 from each community
member, in order to build a house.

This goal was met through T-shirt sales, change drops, in-kind donations, and other fundraisers such as Kappa Sigma fraternity’s “Homeruns
for Habitat” event.

Construction began in January at 537 Westside Terrace in Davidson, with junior Ben Kinnaman overseeing the site.

The house gradually took shape as Davidson students and faculty members helped hammer nails and paint walls. Freshman Odyssey groups
also assisted over the summer.

The “Our Towns” affiliate, which encompasses Huntersville, Mooresville, and Davidson, chose the house’s recipient family last spring.

The recipients, Danny and Ethlelene Jetton, along with their three sons Danny Jr., Joey, and Christopher, have participated in the
construction of their future home.

Although the current committee will no longer exist after the house is completed, the College hopes to encourage bonds with
Our Towns.

Davidson students can help build Habitat houses through the affiliate in the tri-community region.

The Davidsonian is looking for a few good editors for next semester.

Interested? Call 1-800-678-6386.
