THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 22, 1996

From PhD. to professor: how faculty are hired
By NARESH NAGELLA AND KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
Assistant News Editors

Becoming a professor is no easy feat. As Dean of Academic Affairs Robert Williams notes, “The applicants are clearly entering
a buyer’s market.” He says, “It is not uncommon to have more than a hundred applicants for each position.” After
this step, resumes and applications are evaluated and the group is reduced to about 20 qualified applicants. Dean Williams says,
“We hire a new professor on the assumption they are tenurable and that they have or will receive the terminal
degree in their field. But, the emphasis is on excellence in teaching.” Still, Dean Williams admits, “It is hard to
identify that great spark of teaching.”

For that reason, Davidson ensures students are involved in the process. With Dean Williams, a committee reduces the applicants to
a handful. Generally, three applicants are invited to campus to talk with students and actually teach a class. Dean Williams
states, “It is critical for students to be involved in a hiring choice.” All majors in the department meet with
a prospective professor. The candidates usually come from Top 15 schools in their field and are often liberal arts college
graduates. Most of the offers in the past 10 years have been accepted. Professors are originally hired for a two-year
contract and their performance is reviewed at that time. They are eligible for tenure after six years of employment.

Dean Williams says, “We do a lot of orientation with new professors. Department chairs are a key point of contact
with all new faculty.” That system may explain the relative uniformity in standards and expectations of Davidson faculty. Faculty also
receive help in moving and relocation expenses before coming to the college. They are provided with some fringe benefits in
terms of housing, insurance, and tuition breaks for their children to attend Davidson for free or up to $12,912 per
year for another college.

Six seniors will JET to Japan next year
By LAURA ALLEN
Staff Writer

Six adventurous Davidson students have recently been selected to participate in the JET program, through which they will spend a
year in Japan teaching English to Japanese students. Seniors Samantha Hodges, Mark McGuire, Katie McKelvie, Lillian Rowe, Heddy Moolenaar, and
Bobby Ramsay, along with Scott Lenhart ’95, will all be working as assistant language teachers in Japanese schools, teaching students
whose ages range anywhere from elementary to high school.

Mark McGuire says that although they have not received their specific assignments yet, he looks forward to helping the students
learn not only the English language but also the American culture. Samantha Hodges has long been interested in participating in
this program. “My brother and his friends went on this program,” she says, “and so I had spoken to them
about it before I even came to Davidson.” Even though Hodges does not know any Japanese, she says she is
“pretty excited about studying Japanese very intensely.”

Katie McKelvie says, “I want to go somewhere rural and warm. I’d like to teach younger kids English, basically by
playing games with them like Hangman.” “I really want to learn Japanese and travel a lot, like to the Great
Wall of China at Christmas,” says Heddy Moolenaar. She wants to teach older kids and says that she “would still
play games with them, and judge language contests.”

“I applied on a whim and during the interview process I became more and more excited at this kind of
an opportunity. I didn’t know if I wanted to spend a year of my life that far away from home
but then I thought, it’s only a year,” says Robert Ramsay. “They were very mean in the interview.” Some members
of the group will leave in late July, and some will leave in August. Once they arrive, they will go
through orientation in Tokyo.

HABITAT UPDATE
Students who haven't been out to the Habitat site recently might be surprised at the progress that has been made.
The complete frame is now up, and construction is still in full gear. Dedicated students, faculty, staff, and community members
have been working hard in the Spring heat to build the house for the Jettons, which is scheduled to be
finished next September. Weather has prevented Habitat from completing the house this year, but the extension will give the class
of 2000 a chance to work on the house as well. For information, call Catherine Turner at 2460.

SAE
Josh Glazer
Sigma Alpha Epsilon poses for their annual book drive picture. They give five shelves of books to the library a
year.

“Burly Bear Network” on DCTV
BRAD D. CHASE
Staff Writer
Davidson College Television,Cable channel 14 launched a new program this week. Known as the “Burly Bear Network,” the show airs
weekdays at noon and 10 p.m. It can also be viewed on Saturday and Sunday at noon. The Burly Bear
Network is a national network that covers approximately 300 colleges and universities, including the show “Half Baked,” which covers cooking,
and “Larry’s Lounge,” a music show similar to MTV’s Rockumentaries. John Blake, Manager of DC-TV, is optimistic about the addition
of Burly Bear Network: “This is the only programming that I know of that is strictly aimed at college students.”
Blake also explained that DC-TV currently receives two hours of programming a week from CMV, College Music Videos, which is
also similar to MTV programming, with specific emphasis on college students. DC-TV plans to add an hour and a half
of its own programming for next year.

“We realize that the average student doesn’t have a lot of time to watch TV, that’s why we are trying
to get quality programming for them,” Blake added.

Ties From page 1

Wall, Jr. insists the debate was not one-sided. “There were strong arguments on both sides of the coin,” he says.
He emphasizes the importance that “Davidson College be a church-related institution, and the chief officer be affiliated with the Presbyterian
Church in order to establish the foundation and the core of the message we wish to extend. The board establishes
policy and elects this chief executive officer.” Ben Barker of Chapel Hill, chairman of the trustee Ad-Hoc Committee on Church
Relations, says the decision is in line with the commitment to the Presbyterian Church (USA) that the trustees made in
February. “From the outset, the board not only wanted to reaffirm the ties but strengthen them,” he says, “so how
do you express that symbolically? I believe that these votes reflect that. We really believe that the trustees need to
be Christians at this point in our history.”

When asked how a non-Christian student should react to the decision, Trustee Secretary Larry Dagenhart notes that their frustration would
be “understandable,” but he would hope that they would understand that “this is the way that it is in the
system of governance.” He emphasizes that the decisions of the trustees do not “put down” other religious beliefs. In The
Charlotte Observer Saturday, an article by Ken Garfield on the trustee's decision claims that “Davidson dug in its heels Friday
against secularization.” However, Wall, Barker, and Dagenhart say that this is not the reasoning behind the decision. Dagenhart claims that
the trustees recognize the gradual secularization of society and believe that Davidson should retain its character. All three, though, say
that this “is not why” the decision was made.

Members of the Davidson community have mixed viewpoints on the decision. Some see it as a reflection of the purpose
of the college, while others see it as contradictory to the diversity that it seeks. While studying for a test,
Juniors Jay Hinton, Mary Morehead, and Arun Thomas discuss the issue. Hinton feels the school “should be able to determine
its administration.” Morehead looks for a compromise. “If you want to maintain diversity,” she says, “it would make sense to
have maybe a certain percentage be able to be non-Christian.” Thomas sees logic in the decision. “If the school wants
to keep a Christian reputation, it would make sense that the trustees and the president uphold that.”

Study-breakers in the Union seem to have more definite views. Senior Rick Onkey, SGA Senior Senator, says he thinks “it
is important that the president is supportive of a relationship [to the church], but I don't think [he or she]
has to be Presbyterian to do that. For the same reason, I think [the trustee decision] is bad. There are
plenty of qualified alumni who are qualified to be trustees.” Junior Katie Wells agrees. “It would disturb me if they
turned someone away for his or her religious beliefs.” Junior Greg Garrison, who works with the Christian-affiliated organization Young Life
and describes himself as a “self-proclaimed born-again Christian,” believes that the trustee decision was not based on the right principles.
“Since many of Davidson's decisions seem to be based more on educational trends than Scripture or Biblical Christianity, it seems
problematic to me that we require our trustees to be Christians,” he says. “However, as long as Davidson is affiliated
with the church, I do believe that the President should be a Christian since he or she is a figurehead.”
Chaplain Rob Spach supports the decision regarding the religion department. “I felt like there was a need for the change,”
he says.
