THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1996

Easter display: crossing the line?

Freshman justifies letters nailed to crosses on Chambers lawn

To the Editors:

I would like to speak to everyone who found my signs bothersome, wrong, sacrilegious, etc. I should begin by saying that I am Catholic. I do believe in Christ, God, and the Holy Spirit, as all Christians do. However, I do not believe that anyone has the right to force their beliefs on anyone else. Religion is something that we turn to for support, for love, for a purpose in life. Yet no one knows who is right or wrong, if there even is a right and wrong. Many of you have told me that you know you’re right because of some sort of epiphany that you’ve had, and that is why you have the right to spread the “good word.” How do you know God hasn’t spoken the same way to a Buddhist, a Jew, an Atheist? Jesus said that we would one day have to stand before God for our judgment. He never gave us that right. He never gave us the power to condemn any person.

If you haven’t seen the latest signs around campus, here it is: There is only one God and He is God to us all; therefore it is important that everyone is seen as equal before God.

I’ve always said we should help a Hindu become a better Hindu, a Muslim become a better Muslim, a Catholic become a better Catholic. —Mother Teresa

This sums up what I’ve been trying to say. Stop judging others, telling others how to pray and believe; stop forcing your “correct” views on others. The basis of all religions is love. Please take this message and love people for who they are, not for what religious group they might belong to. Remember, “They’ll know we are Christians by our love.”

For those of you who have removed my signs, I wish you would come to me, or write a letter, and tell me why you have the right to voice your opinions and I do not. I’d like to hear why you’re so above my beliefs. For the person who wrote a note saying that I was “insecure” about my beliefs, I'd just like to say how odd it seems that I owned up to what I was saying, and you, the secure one, remains anonymous. Kind of ironic don’t you think?

For all the people who have written, called, or stopped by my room, thank you. I think that the more we talk, the more we’ll understand and accept each other. This campus desperately needs to learn tolerance.

Sincerely,
Julie O’Connor ’99

Garrison challenges readers to analyze the facts of Jesus’ death — and resurrection

To the Editors:

I can understand why Julie O’Connor, or anyone else, could have been offended by the crosses. The cross is offensive. Christianity, by its very nature, offends. It claims that at a particular point in history, God became a man and that only through this man’s death can anyone achieve a right relationship to God or have a full, joyful life. Christians claim not only that Jesus of Nazareth is God; Jesus himself explicitly made this claim, and that is why he was put to death. That means that either he was insane, or that he was a liar of the worst sort, or that he was God. It seems, therefore, extremely important to ascertain whether or not his claims were true.

At this point, let me stress that I am not attempting to impose my views on anyone, but merely to present certain historical data so that the reader can judge the data for himself or herself and come to his or her own conclusion.

The Old Testament contains 61 major predictive prophecies about the Messiah. According to the New Testament, Jesus fulfilled all 61 of the prophecies. It could be argued that he did this on purpose to make himself look like the Messiah. The fulfillment of 33 of these prophecies, however, was completely out of his hands, if he was merely human. According to mathematician Peter Stoner, the probability of any one person fulfilling 8 predictive prophecies is 1 in 10 to the power of 17. This is equivalent to covering Texas two feet deep in silver dollars, marking one, tossing it into the pile, and pulling out the marked coin at random. This is such a vast number that even using subatomic particles, no comprehensible physical model exists.

What, however, of Easter? If Jesus didn’t come back from the dead, then he could have been a fluke, a universally vast improbability. If he did come back from the dead, then his claims to be God were verified. Let us, then, examine the details of his death and burial. After being found guilty of blasphemy, he was whipped on the back, buttocks, and legs with a flagrum, a many-tasseled whip with bits of metal and bone tied into its tassels. After this, the Romans pressed a crown of thorns into Jesus’s scalp, beat him, led him up a hill called Golgotha, placed him on a cross, and drove nails through his wrists and ankles. After a couple of hours, he was already dead. To confirm this, they jammed a spear into his side, and streams of blood and water came out of the wound, indicating massive coronary failure as the most probable cause of his death. According to the Journal of the American Medical Association, there is no way he could have survived this ordeal. His body was then placed into a tomb carved into rock, and another rock was used to seal the tomb. A Roman seal was then stretched from the stone to the neighboring wall, and the penalty for removing the seal was severe, probably death. A “guard” was then placed in front of the tomb. The “guard” was either a “Roman guard,” a group of four or more highly trained Roman soldiers, or it was the “temple guard,” a group of 270 Jewish police. A day and a half later, the tomb was empty. At no point did the Romans or the Jews deny this. The wrappings that had been on Jesus’s body were in two neat piles with the wrappings from his head still intact.

What, then, happened to the body? Did the Romans or the Jews hide Jesus’s body to quell an uprising? This is highly unlikely because both groups spent an enormous amount of time and money persecuting early Christians, and if they indeed had the body, then they would only have had to produce it to destroy the early church. Did the disciples of Jesus steal the body? If they did, then these are the implications: A group of 11 disorganized, ordinary men ignored and denied their master in his hour of death, and in the next 36 hours, they gained superhuman courage and strength. They conquered either four or more Roman green berets or 270 Jewish cops, risked death by removing a Roman seal, pushed a two-ton stone upa sharp hill, rushed into a dark tomb, carefully unwrapped a body, fixed the wrappings so that they were still in the shape of the body and head, and stole the body from the tomb. Did Jesus rise from the grave? Is Easter a cosmic hoax, or was it the most amazing moment in the history of the world? Sincerely, Greg Garrison, ’97.

‘Religious furor unfounded’

To the Editors:

Although we do not wish to perpetuate discussion over the three crosses placed on the lawn of Chambers, it seems that displays of campus outrage were entirely inappropriate and unfounded. Erecting the crosses is done by campus religious groups as a reminder of and a tribute to a momentous event that has shaped our history. It is not by any means an imposition of the Christian faith upon anyone, nor is it meant to signify universal acceptance of Christianity. It is simply an expression of our faith, and going out of the way to point out the disparity of our beliefs seems unnecessary and rude.

In reference to Julie O’Connor’s protest, we would like to point out that Easter is indeed expressly about and focused upon the Crucifixion as well as the Resurrection. For Christians, Easter reminds us of a sacrifice as well as a reprieve from human sinfulness. If you are not a Christian, you won’t find us destroying your symbols of a faith you might cherish. And while you may not embrace our faith, we would expect that, as in any enlightened community, you would respect it — and we would hope that this respect would be manifest in your mature tolerance of expressions of beliefs other than your own. We’re sure that if a campus organization had put up a garden of monumental inflatable Easter bunnies in front of Chambers, no such protest would have been raised.

Sincerely, Katherine Palmer ’98 Caroline Kelly ’98

Religious righteousness

To the Editors:

I have been told many times that I cannot complain about Davidson. They tell me that since I chose this school, I do not have the right to say that I feel claustrophobic in the overwhelming Christian environment or that I dislike the fact that the diversity among the student body is abysmal. But, through it all, I have maintained that I have a right to criticize because I am a student that Davidson has always pretended to care about. As time goes by, I feel like they only care about me for their statistics, and so that they can continue to write blurbs about the “growing number of Jewish students.” I am helping them boast some sort of heterogeneity that our campus actually lacks, but they are not making it easy for me to feel welcome.

However, because the administration and the Chaplain genuinely try to welcome me on a personal basis, I believe that the “they” that I have spoken about refers to some members of the student body. Actually, it is the school as a whole body that ignores points of view that are not the norm and chooses not to encourage people to step outside of their comfortable, mainstream world.

When I saw the three crosses that were placed in front of Chambers, I remembered how angry I was last year when I witnessed this display. But as a freshman, I kept quiet and exploded inwardly, and I greatly appreciated when others stepped up to defend my point of view. So, now, after last year’s controversy, I am disappointed that certain student groups would adorn the center of the campus with this religious decoration when they know that many of their peers feel imposed and sometimes even threatened by such an action. If the FCA or Intervarsity feels a need to celebrate Easter with these crosses, then the sensible thing to do would be to put them near the church, where their meaning would not be lost in a sea of controversy. There is absolutely no reason to force the entire campus to observe this scene, because the entire campus does not wish to witness this kind of shove-down-your-throat Christianity.

Since the student body as a whole does not expect to be confronted with things or events outside of the Christian realm, then we, as thoughtful human beings, should not allow one another to display religious ornaments in the middle of campus. These displays are completely inappropriate and disregard the feelings of many people, non-Christians and Christians alike. The Easter resurrection is a very tangible reminder of the way the school condones the religious smothering of our students. When professors automatically assume that the whole class is church-going, when the FCA puts posters of Bible quotes on the doors of our athletic team locker rooms, when a narrow-minded fellow student calls me Satan because I am Jewish and attempts to “save me,” and when there are Christmas hall decorating contests and nobody remembers that other holidays exist, the school is allowing me to feel uncomfortable and unwanted. They are forgetting that certain events continue to allow closed-mindedness and lack of awareness in our student body. They are making me feel like I am being used in order to increase our school’s national reputation by claiming that we have diversity.

The environment at Davidson tends to make me feel as if I do not belong here because it refuses to acknowledge or think about me and many others. And while some may think I am overreacting because our backgrounds clash, no one can dispute the way I feel. I try to remember that this is indeed a Christian school, but often my emotions take over and memories of assurances that were whispered in my ear when I was deciding between Davidson and schools that were known, heterogeneous, and within my comfort zone. At the time, I was convinced that Davidson actually was trying to broaden its horizons and become more worldly and open, but now I am not so sure.

The point is that, although I may have made a mistake in coming to a conservative, Presbyterian school that ignores its minorities and heavily imposes its religion on all of its students, I am here to stay. I believe that Davidson is my school as much as it is yours, and we all deserve the same amount of respect. Freedom of speech is necessary and important, but sometimes compromises must be made to acknowledge that we care about one another and that we are striving for true understanding and sensitivity in what sometimes seems a heartless world. Instead of overwhelming us with crosses in celebration of Easter, put them near the church where they will be appreciated and observed. Since we are encouraged to be truthful by our honor code, we should act as our brochures say and put some real effort into being more open-minded, caring of minorities, and celebrating the diversity that we have.

Sincerely, Sara Gebhardt ’98