OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1996

Ann Hatfield

Speak up and speak out

Okay, I’m sitting here poised at the edge of my seat, Coke can within arm’s length, eagerly smacking a mouth
full of gum. I’m in writing mode and I should be ready, right? Instead, I’m struggling with my weekly news
article—mentally ticking off all the things I have to do before bedtime. That’s when I decided to write this Opinions
article. You see, the speaking tradition at Davidson (or lack thereof) has bothered and puzzled me since freshman year.

Let me give you a scenario: you’re late for your 9:30 class in Chambers, you rush out the door of
Watts and, along the way, you pass Bob. Now, you have been aware of Bob since freshman year; you’ve seen
him countless times on the Court and in Humes lectures, but you can’t remember having ever actually met him. Here
comes the big dilemma. Do you speak to Bob by name, do you give him a harried smirk-smile and the
obligatory “Hi,” or do you put your head down, hurry to class and pretend that you don’t see him?

On first consideration, you might think that I am overdramatizing the banal, but I am willing to bet that almost
everyone on campus has dealt with this big decision. Why don’t we have a working speaking tradition, a practice that
could also be applied to the classroom?

Should I or shouldn’t I flash those pearly whites, wave frantically and call out clear across campus? Okay, so it’s
easy if Sally’s your best friend, swimming partner and hallmate, but what about the other 75% of people on campus
that you only know by name? Why doesn’t Davidson have the comforting “speaking tradition” of its sister school 300 miles
to the North? All of my conversational life, I have heard stories about the great speaking tradition of Washington and
Lee, in which students are bound by common respect to greet their neighbor. I mean, how difficult can it be
to speak to a person, single that person out and show that you thought enough to remember his or her
name?

The same principle applies to the classroom, and I’m just as guilty as the next person. When I returned from
my term at Oxford, I vowed to make a concerted effort to participate in class. Somewhere between senior year in
high school and sophomore year in college, I got out of the habit of active participation. Unfortunately, I feel that
3/4 of the student body shares my newfound passivity. And anyone can identify with that embarrassed silence when an energized
professor does everything short of standing on the desk to elicit some response from that half-dead, apathetic 8:30 class.

Well anyway, I’m sitting in “20th Century American Fiction” and I have a point to make—a point that I have
been mulling over, and repeating in my head until it can’t help but slide off the tip of my tongue.
So I motion my intent to Dr. Nelson, open my mouth, and forget absolutely everything that I had thought of
in the last 12 hours. Unfortunately, I already had begun my thought when in mid-sentence my voice cracks. And I
don’t mean just falters; there is no way at all that I can complete my thought. I slither down in
my seat in an attempt to hide myself—a difficult endeavor when you’re sitting front and center.

Now, why did my voice crack and why did...I forget everything I had so carefully planned to say. As I
am not a pubescent boy and don’t remember being intimidated in high school, I dare say it is Davidson’s conditioning.
Why don’t we have a working speaking tradition, a practice that could also be applied to the classroom? Why are
titillating class discussions reserved for only mid-morning classes and why don’t we greet Bob and Sally by name? Let’s rev
up this trend — I’d love to hear some answers or opinions in forums to improve that.

Name: Ainsley Natta
Year: Freshman
Major: Studio Art
Hometown: Bronx, NY
Last book read outside of class: Jazz by Toni Morrison
Hours of TV watched last week: One.

What would you do to improve social life at Davidson?
I would try to encourage more communication between students. The reason that there’s not that much communication is that most
don’t interact with each other. I guess you would have retreats and other events to foster interaction.

What’s the last time you went to a Davidson sports event?
Friday, and it was the Swimming and Diving competition.

Ann Hatfield has written an article about the lack of a speaking tradition at Davidson. Do you ever feel scared
to speak in class?
Not really, but I would suppose that if you feel that someone else is going to make the same statement
you are going to make, then you don’t speak. Some students have something to say, but they will wait too
long and another student will say it already.

This week, Northerner Katie McKelvie writes about how the South is different. How have you adjusted to living in the
South?
I’ve adjusted pretty well. It is different, but it really wasn’t that hard.

About what issue would you like to see an Opinions article?
If there really is a need for a new Student Union building.

Christopher Dana
Charlotte sports fans look at the paper or TV and are hearing the word; one of the hottest college basketball
teams is “in their backyard.” That yard is Belk Arena, one of the more underpopulated places when our 20-3 team
takes the court. Saturday’s game against Marshall is Senior Day, and Brandon, Chris, Quinn, Jeff, and Mark have earned the
right to play in front of a capacity crowd. We should be very proud of our team, and while the
support has been good, this special group of guys deserves more.

The five seniors now boast nearly 20 years of collegiate sports experience, including the night of gut-wrenching tragedy two years
ago in the finals of the Southern Conference Tournament in Asheville. They were all there. Many of us were, too
— the Davidson crowd which showed up that Sunday night was impressive. That game only increased the longing of the
players, coaches, and fans to secure an NCAA tournament berth. Now, after a disappointing season, the team has gelled under
the leadership of these seniors and looks to reach the next plateau. During a game or in practice, their level
of poise, concentration, and focus is exemplary. They use their heads and communicate and execute extremely well. Their patient shot-selection
on offense shows great maturity. Defensively, their tenacity is inspiring — I never realized how exciting it is to watch
the opponents not take a shot. They are a thrill to watch, and we all can learn something from their
competitive spirit and sportsmanship. So, let’s get behind them Saturday. Come, and be ready to make noise. They’ve earned our
support.

HEY, CAN YOU HAND ME MY DAY TIMER?
AREN'T YOU KIND OF ROBBING THE CRADLE?
