6 THE DAVIDSONIAN ELSEWHERE MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1996

Week in Washington | Partial-birth abortion ban vetoed

By David Santis
Washington Week Correspondent

In a ceremony in the White House Roosevelt Room on Wednesday, President Clinton vetoed a bill that would have banned
one controversial partial-birth abortion procedure. He justified his veto on the grounds that the procedure is “potentially life-saving, certainly health-saving”
for “a small but extremely vulnerable group of women and families in this country, just a few hundred a year.”

Republican presidential candidate Sen. Bob Dole (R-KS) denounced Clinton for “[rejecting] a very modest and bipartisan measure reflecting the values
of the great majority of Americans.” Dole warned about crossing “the line between abortion and infanticide.”

This abortion procedure is done only 20 weeks after gestation. In this method, formally known as intact dilation and evacuation,
the fetus is partially extracted from the womb feet first. The brain of the fetus is then suctioned out so
that the head can pass through the birth canal. It is unknown how many such abortions are performed. There were
1.3 million abortion procedures in the US in 1993. Fewer than 1.5% of these were done after 20 weeks of
gestation, and not all late-term abortions are performed using this method.

Clinton says that he opposes the use of this procedure “on an elective basis.” He had lobbied Congress to include
an exception to the ban if a woman’s life or health was in danger, but Republicans refused this proposal. They
feared that factors such as a mother’s emotional state could be used to justify an abortion. Pro-life groups harshly criticized
Clinton’s stance. “Clinton’s veto... shows once againrebels have demanded. Some analysts have asserted that the Chechen rebels will see this
change in policy as a sign of weakness and that it will encourage them to fight all the harder. This
is always a possibility, yet one has to question what more the Chechen rebels could realistically expect to get. Furthermore,
even though the Chechens hate Yeltsin, they must be aware that a communist victory in the upcoming elections would be
worse for them than Yeltsin’s re-election. If the communists win, there will be a much more centralist and nationalistic government
in power than the one under Yeltsin. Also, a communist victory will almost certainly cool Russian relations with the West.
While the US has not taken any active role in the Chechen conflict, Western press coverage of the war (which
has tended to be biased toward the Chechens) has been a good PR bonus. If Yeltsin loses the upcoming elections,
Dudaev must know that the rules of the war will change. He will no longer face a floundering democratic government
yearning to be accepted by the rest of the world and its people; he will instead be up against a
government very much like the one that massacred his people half a century before under Stalin and the Soviet Union.
Because of these factors, it appears that at least until the elections are over, it might be all quiet on
the Chechen front.

Commerce Secretary Ron Brown dies in plane crash

An American plane carrying Commerce Secretary Ron Brown and many top American executives crashed into a mountain over Croatia. The
crash brought nation-wide mourning for those on board. All passengers have been assumed dead.

Israeli-Lebanon attacks continue

Israel launched a massive attack against forces in Lebanon after a cross-border attack on Thursday. These events are simply examples
of many attacks and counter-attacks that have occurred since Israel first began to occupy the nine-mile-long buffer zone to separate
it from Lebanon and make cross-border attacks more difficult for terrorists.

European cattle slaughter debate concluded

EU farm ministers agreed to pay 70% of the costs of slaughtering 4.6 million cattle in what Britain. The slaughter
is needed to end the spread of mad-cow disease which has recently put significant strain on the European beef market.

Passport applications surge in Hong Kong

More than 50,000 people applied for British passports on their last day of issue in Hong Kong. Hong Kong is
scheduled to be turned over to communist China in 1997.

USC FOOTBALL TEAM MAY HAVE TO FORFEIT ROSE BOWL WIN

LOS ANGELES—The Los Angeles Times reported March 28 that 15 players on the University of Southern California’s football team took
a class in which seemingly neither attendance nor work was required. At the head of the class were star receiver
Keyshawn Johnson, running back Delon Washington, and quarterback Kyle Wachholtz, who each received an A. After the Times reported the
accusations, USC notified both the Pac-10 Conference and the NCAA. Both groups have started an inquiry into the matter. If
found to be true, USC could be forced to forfeit all games from the 1995-96 football season, including the Rose
Bowl. That would make Northwestern, who lost the game 42-31 after a Cinderella season, the champion. The USC course in
question was named Tutoring Elementary. Thirty of the 40 students in the class were athletes, and one student told the
Times they never had to show up until an advisor told them to go to the final. “I went to
the class, and it was full of athletes,” the student told the Times. “I was handed a paper that was
already completed, then told to hand it back in. The paper had my name typed on it, and it was
some sort of essay question.” —College Press Service

Seafood, BBQ & Catering

Featuring GREAT Seafood, outstanding Ribeye Steaks, our famous Barbecue and award-winning Banana Pudding PLUS Much More!

LUNCH HOURS: Friday, 11:30 - 2:00 P.M.
DINNER: Tues. - Sat., 5:00 P.M. - 9:00 P.M.
892-3362
18150 Statesville Rd., CORNELIUS

Go Wildcats! Go Wildcats!

Open 7 days a week
formerly Beauregard's
Under New Ownership

Come and join us at Lake Norman's 1st & Finest Sports Bar
Where Everybody's a Winner
Casual Dining - No Smoking Section
New Additional Menu Items
Daily Lunch, Dinner & Drink Specials
*Wait Staff Wanted*
mastercard 892-4335 amex visa
Cornelius, Exit 28 * Hwy 73 West * Lakeshore Marketplace
3 Wide Screens
