THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1996

Hypnotist visits campus and warps helpless minds ... hahaha!
By ABBY KNIFFIN
Staff Writer

People began filing into the 900 Room Saturday night half an hour early in order to get a good seat for Dan Sanders, a professional hypnotist. As the crowd streamed out after the show, most were still chuckling over what they had seen.

Dan “the Sandman” Sanders began the show with an explanation of what happens during hypnosis. Hypnosis is a type of trance that resembles sleep, but in which the subject’s subconscious is open to suggestion. Everybody enters into different levels of trances each day, ranging from daydreaming to actual sleep.

About 20 audience members volunteered to be hypnotized on stage. To ease the subjects into the state, Sanders first dimmed the lights and put on soft new age music. He then told the volunteers (and anyone in the audience who wished to try it themselves) to focus on a wavering red light bulb on the center of the stage. He began to speak in a soft, even voice, telling the subjects to completely relax and clear their minds. Soon, he said that they should close their eyes and begin to feel very sleepy. After several minutes, he touched each subject on the hand, and they slumped in their chairs like rag dolls.

Pam Hockert described the experience: “I was still kind of aware when I fell over, but I didn’t even care. I felt more than just dizzy — it was like intense spinning. It was like those cheesy movie dream sequences associated with the spinning colors.”

After they were completely hypnotized, the volunteers were asked to act however the Sandman told them to. At various times he told them they were at the beach, were being tickled, and were in a body-building competition, among other things. One subject was made to think she had 11 fingers; another thought she was from Jupiter, and one switched from being Superman, to Elvis, to kissing a broom.

Jordan deBree, who was told to change his shirt around every time he heard the word “hypnosis,” said that during the show, “I just felt people sitting next to me, but I don’t remember what I was doing.” Hockert said that she knew she was hypnotized, “but I felt like I was alone up there. I was so focused on the hypnotist.”

After the show, deBree felt “groggy and out of place — it was hard to relate to other people because I had no idea what they were talking about.” All of the volunteers said that they would do it again if they had a chance.

One audience member admitted that before seeing the show, she was skeptical of hypnotism. “But after seeing everybody up there,” she said, “I definitely think it’s possible.”

Art from page 10

in 1994, and the University of the Arts, Rosenwald-Wolf Gallery in Philadelphia, in 1996. Kardestuncer’s work embraces a paradox involving minimalism: in trying to abandon the boundaries of pictorial illusionism, minimalist art gains illusory characteristics. Her work envelops the concepts of repetition, connection, and pattern, and in doing so, achieves in her art a sense of ongoingness and simplicity. Her pieces are created from such things as wood, paper, concrete, linen. Much of her material consists of discarded scraps and found objects. Her work is interesting in that she marks and captures time, at the same time offering the viewer an escape from it.

Sermin Kardestuncer was born in Gemlik, Turkey, and currently lives in New York City. She has exhibited her work several times in New York and in 1993 had a one-person exhibition at Gallery Nev, Istanbul, Turkey, as well as exhibiting in Budapest, Chicago, and Memphis. I found both Reichek’s and Kardestuncer’s exhibitions very interesting and enlightening in many ways. I encourage everyone to...Take the time to experience these works individually and respond to them in your own ways. Admission is free. Gallery hours are 10 a.m.-5 p.m., weekdays and 2-5 p.m. weekends. The Galleries will be closed November 26 through December 1 for the Thanksgiving Holiday.

The Duchess Nail, Hair & Tanning Salon
Full service salon for women & men
892-7030
"Best Prices in Town"
- Nails
  - manicures
  - pedicures in European spa pedicure chair
  - acrylic
  - gels
  - tips
  - fiberglass
- Tanning
  - "Hottest Bulbs in Town"
  - $4.00 per session
  - $33.00 for 10 sessions
  - $43.00 for 15 sessions
  - $50.00 for 20 sessions
Treat yourself...you deserve it
Ask for Connie, Michelle, or Susan
RedKen Hair Products & more...
Located 1/2 mile south of Davidson College Campus
20700 N. Main St. - By Dorcas

AND MARLA Consulting Astrologists

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)—You are not Boss Tweed, and this is not Tammany Hall. Take your sordid agenda elsewhere. Meanwhile, back at the ranch, make sure to keep the home fires burning. Lucky Place: Hell’s Kitchen. Lucky lastname: Gambino/Gotti. Lucky investment: Teflon™ industry.

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21)—It is in your best interest to watch as many Corey Haim movies as possible. Try to find one without Corey Feldman—he is evil, very, very evil. Lucky place: Carolina Cones movie racks. Lucky nocturnal being: vampire.

The Corn (December 22-January 19)—Go to Jasper’s Thursday night and demand dollar beer. You will not receive it, but it is necessary to fight the good fight. Then go to all businesses along Main Street (Tom Clark Museum NOT excluded) and demand free merchandise then burn it. Lucky Place: that needlecraft place. Lucky needle: Cleopatra’s.

Aquarius (January 20-February 18)—Revive the waning -ology of etymology. Find out that the word mastodon means “nipple-tooth” and keratosis means “horny-growth.” Who knew? WE DID. Lucky lexicons: Langenscheidt, Larousse.

Pisces (February 19-March 20)—Oedipus and Enone, both oenologists, enjoy dining on oeufs and boeuf while drinking oenomel and Deboeuf. Follow their wise example and your oeuvre might be as good as theirs. Lucky illusion: trompe l’oeil.

Aries (March 21-April 20)—Be so careful when using quotation marks. Look what can happen when you don’t: I went over to my “friend’s” house and we drank “wine.” It was “fun.” OR I have an “ulcer.” Lucky medicine: Pepcid AC®.

Taurus (April 21-May 20)—Celebrate potentates of yore. You can learn from their foibles. For example, do not lose your colonies, or decapitate anyone (even accidentally). Lucky Monarchs: Clovis, King of the Franks and Queen Hatshepsut.

Gemini (May 21-June 20)—Join the Hanseatic League and trade in the North Sea. Trade and barter but don’t be too cantankerous or you shall not gain the respect of the Juniper Berry Clan. Watch for Red Tides. Lucky Drink: G and T.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)—You are the Light of the World. Artists paint you. Critics shower you with accolades. Writers memorialize you. The Muses sing your praises and the world is at your feet.

Leo (July 23-August 22)—Borrow Memnon’s Harp, or buy your own. Play it. The four and twenty elders will accompany you from their minstrel’s gallery. They keep the beat like no other back-up players. They want the FUNK. Lucky instrument: hammer dulcimer.

Virgo (August 23-September 22)—You are always standing on hallowed ground. Do a mazurka on this consecrated land. The most hallowed of all are the much neglected islands called the “Dry” Tortugas. Lucky Vehicle: Sailboat.

Libra (September 23-October 22)—Find a skateboard. Call Dorcas or Madge for further Horoscope info.

PASTA COMPANY
DELIVERY DINE-IN
896-8333
Alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages available. Featuring the best import and domestic beers and a full line of wines including Chardonnay, Cabernet, and Merlot. We deliver full meals including all alcoholic beverages. FREE delivery. Limited delivery area. $10 Minimum Delivery. Major Credit Cards Accepted.
HOURS:
11:30-9 Mon. - Thur.
11:30-10 Fri. - Sat.
Closed Sunday
I-77, Exit 28, Norman Crossing Shopping Center
10% off any pasta combo with student I.D. thru 3/31/97