THE DAVIDSONIAN

Billy Graham brings droves of people to Ericsson Stadium.

Carolinas Billy Graham Crusade

ARTS & LIVING

Davidson College Wind Ensemble performs great music for your enjoyment and appreciation in Hodson Hall 8:00 p.m.

Jumpin’ Java provides you with the caffeine and poetry inspiration to add your own art to our favorite stop on
Patterson Court at the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Coffeehouse kicks off your morning in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.

School Daze, a parody on black student life at Davidson College, will be presented by members of the Black Student
Coalition in the 900 Room 7 p.m.

Golden Graham

Jumpin’ Java is still jumping in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Billy Graham’s message attracts large crowds to Ericsson Stadium

By ANN STRAUSER
Guest Writer

As my roommate and I attempted to find a parking place in downtown Charlotte Thursday evening, we were awestruck by
the mass of people making their way along the streets, heading toward Ericsson Stadium. The first night of the “Carolinas
Billy Graham Crusade” drew over 65,000 people to the stadium that evening. I felt like I was going to a
big football game without the beer-drinking fans and the yelling. In fact, this was the most polite mob I’ve ever
seen. In the process of parking, I bumped a pedestrian with just enough force to knock him slightly off balance.
He smiled and waved as if that had been my unique form of greeting.

Once inside the stadium, my roommate and I made our way through the throng to find a seat. By 6:30,
the bottom level was already full, so we, as hundreds of others did, headed for the upper deck. Again, the
size of the crowd surprised us. An hour before the program was to begin, the stands were almost completely filled.

The actual program moved swiftly. First, the 7,000-person choir comprised of choir members from Charlotte area churches sang several hymns.
The Maranatha Praise Band and the singing and testimony of Charlie Daniels followed. As the tension mounted for the entrance
of Billy Graham, a member of the executive board explained where any donations received during the crusade would go and
announced that a public audit will be printed in The Charlotte Observer next week. Joe Gibbs, former NFL coach and
race car driver, talked briefly about his faith. Gibbs’ speech ended with an extended comparison between football and “the game
of life.” In fact, every speaker managed to bring up the Panthers’ surprising recent win. The Panthers never failed to
get a huge response from the crowd, but also made me uncomfortably aware that I was in a football arena.

The longest portion of the ceremony consisted of the welcoming speeches given by the governors of North Carolina and South
Carolina. Each inducted Graham into honorary societies. When they had finished, the tension reached its climax as Billy Graham made
his way to the podium, thanked the governors, greeted the crowd, and began his sermon. He spoke of God as
the unchanging way, salvation through recognition of Christ as Savior, turning your burden over to Christ... all the major themes.
During the sermon, people were respectfully quiet, but I think I was expecting more. This man has moved millions of
people in his lifetime to dedicate their lives to Christ, and on Thursday night thousands more flocked to the floor
of the stadium to do the same. The call following the sermon brought so many people forward that I feared
there could not possibly be room in the area in front of the stage to hold them all. I cannot
help but wonder if these people truly felt...a call that night. No one in my section seemed visibly moved by
Graham’s words, but hundreds responded to the call. Graham is one of the greatest evangelists in history and his crusades
have reached many, but the program Thursday night felt too slick. It ran extremely smoothly. The hymns were sung one
after another without pause between them and that was the tone of the entire crusade. One could feel a tried
and true formula at work in the structure of the program and even in the words of Dr. Graham. He
is a good man and has done incredible things led by his faith and conviction, but the most impressive aspect
of the entire evening was the enormous scale of the program and the awe-inspiring number of people led by faith,
curiosity, or loyalty to this hometown hero.

To Russia with love: Russian club meets
By Tony WAGNER & Jit WILLIAMS
Guest Writer & Associate Editor for Arts and Living

Thursday evening, as students sampled various Russian delicacies, the Big Screen Room echoed with the sounds of traditional Kamchatka music.
It was the first meeting of the new Russian club and, according to all students involved, was a great success.
At the meeting, the club discussed its plans for the future, including an SGA charter as well as ideas for
fundraising. Some of the activities the club wishes to pursue include the showing of Russian movies with English subtitles in
the Union, the organization of a “bold Russian choir” and interaction with the Russian community in Charlotte. The aim of
the club is to expose all students (no knowledge of language is required) to Russian culture, both contemporary and traditional.
Under the guidance of faculty advisor, visiting professor of Russian language, Judith Kalb, an organization dedicated to Russian studies has
long been needed at Davidson. The club will soon begin weekly meetings, so look for flyers or contact Tony Wagner
(voicemail — 4313) for more information. We hope to see you there.

Show your style. Write for Arts & Living. Call Susan or Jill at -2148.

Twenty-One Year Old Night is where all the cool upperclassmen will be
900 Room
10:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

WEDNESDAY
Woody Woodall speaks on, “Alcoholism and Addiction: Paradigms of Whole Person Illnesses” in Chambers Gallery 7 p.m.
Roberto J. will speak on, “Organizing Workers in Nicaragua’s Maquiladoras (sweat shops)” in the 900 Room 7 p.m.
Scholarship Recital will showcase the class of 2000’s freshman recipients of music scholarships in Hodson Hall 8 p.m.
Il Postino is being shown for your enjoyment in the 900 Room 9:30 p.m.
Crop Lunch serves you in the 900 Room 11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m.
Ice Cream Study Break in the 900 Room 8 p.m. - 10 p.m.
AVCSYNHLL Coffeehouse serves fresh coffee and doughnuts in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.
Cream of Soul and Jazz Ensemble blends Motown, 60s oldies, 70s funk, classic rock, and refreshments at Richardson Plaza 5
p.m. No charge.
Il Postino runs a repeat performance in the 900 Room 10 p.m.
Pub Night makes its debut in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m. - 1 a.m. Be sure to check it out
and support another great Union idea.
Love Letters, a two-act play, will be performed by the husband and wife duo, Meg and Don Kimmel, in the
900 Room 8 p.m. Cost is $5.
Go to the Gallery Crawl in Charlotte.
Richard Walker, the National President of the American Association for Chinese Studies, begins the Dean Rusk/Nationsbank Conference on China in
the 900 Room 7 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java does it yet again in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.
Friday, October fourth. Meet just inside the union at 8:30 p.m. Sign up before Wednesday at the Union Desk. Any
questions call Molly Dowling.
