THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1996 13

Leigh Anne Strong and Jeffery Cromartie cook up something good.

Palatable Pleasures
Serve up delicious stuffed potatoes and savory rum cake

By JEFFERY CROMARTIE & LEIGH ANNE STRONG
Chefs-in-Residence

There’s just no substitute for real butter. Before we clog your coronary, we'd like to tell you a little bit
about ourselves so you’ll know who to sue to cover your first triple bypass. We’re both from a small town
in southern Mississippi—not too far from Cajun Country. We like our food hot and heavy, but don’t worry. We’ll start
our recipes out mild and increase the intensity as the semester progresses. This week we’ll let y’all in on two
of our basic favorites: Cromartie’s Easy Stuffed Potatoes and Strong’s Buzzing Rum Cake.

Cromartie’s Easy Stuffed Potatoes

Potatoes are a cheap—and sometimes dull—staple food, but with a little imagination, they can become a tasty side for any
meal. Here’s what you do:

1. Get yourself four medium Idaho spuds. Wash them with soap and water, puncture them with a fork or something,
and bake them at 400 F for about an hour. Stay clear of the microwave.

2. Pop those tubers out and slice them completely in half the long way. Extract their innards with a spoon,
and put them in a big bowl. Be sure to leave the skin intact.

3. To the bowl add: 1 1/2 cups sour cream, 1/2 stick butter, 1 cup grated cheddar cheese, and some
salt (bacon bits or diced ham if you want).

4. Mix all ingredients thoroughly until major lumps are resolved. Any power mixer works well—excluding blenders.

5. Spoon the mix back into the halved potato skins, warm them up, and they’re ready to go.

*NOTE: Stuffed potatoes are good with meat.

Strong’s Buzzing Rum Cake

My grandmother got tipsy off this cake last Christmas. It’s guaranteed to bring out the warmer side of any gathering.

1. Dump one 18 1/2 oz. box yellow cake mix in a large bowl with a large package of vanilla
instant pudding mix, 4 eggs, 1/4 cup water, 1/2 cup vegetable oil, and 1/2 cup dark rum (80 proof). Mix
all ingredients well. You really need a blender to get good results.

2. Preheat oven to 325 F. Grease and flour a large bundt pan, and sprinkle 1 cup chopped pecans evenly
over bottom of pan. Pour batter over nuts, and bake one hour or until cake is golden on top and
doesn’t jiggle when shaken.

3. Allow cake to cool, and invert on plate.

4. In the meantime, make the glaze by melting 1/2 stick butter, 1/4 cup water, 1 cup granulated sugar. Cook
for five minutes. Then stir in 1/2 cup rum.

5. Pour glaze slowly over cake so that it has time to soak in well. Allow cake to set several
hours before consuming.

*NOTE: For an added kick that really makes this recipe worthwhile, pour another cup of rum (more if you dare)
over the cake until it’s completely saturated. Be careful! Sometimes too much of a good thing can make the finished
product inedible.

Questions? Comments? Complaints? Feel free to call us at any reasonable hour (Cromartie - x6827 or Strong - x6628). Just
go easy on our roommates. And remember... if it’s fat free, it sucks!

Write for Arts & Living.
Call Emily or Susan at x2148.

By Dorcas AND SLIM

Consulting Astrologists

Virgo (August 23-September 22)—Play the piccolo while perusing Playboy. Learn the truth about Roni—it’s your prerogative. Go for a ride
in a droshky. They are back in style. Lucky Place: under a dolmen or in Jackson Court.

Libra (September 23—October 22)—The scales tip in your favor. You will experience great pleasure in a lean-to structure while listening
to a rock opera. Lucky phrase: Tommy can you feel me?

Scorpio (October 23—November 21)—This week, learn the names of the cast of Benson. Be proud of your newfound knowledge and
recite the names. Lucky cast member: Krause.

Sagittarius (November—December 21)—Get your voice-mail fixed. For Mearta Blivenz press one, no three, no four, oh well. You have no
messages. Lucky Place: College Switchbored.

Capricorn (December 22—January 19)—Look for El Dorado, not the Fountain of Youth. Ponce de Leon did not find it, neither
will you. Lucky Places: Fort Knox or Knox Dorm, Knots Landing, Don Knotts, Knott’s Berry Farm.

Aquarius (January 20—February 18)—Take this week to celebrate the Arts and Crafts Movement. Make a wax candle. Wax Furniture. Stain
Glass. Why not make a whole wax museum. Lucky Artist: William Morris.

Pisces (February 19—March 20)—Play the recorder. This early form of flute will rock your world. Recorders are aphrodisiacs, so don’t
forget to fasten your chastity belt and enjoy the ride. Lucky place: anyplace with an airbag.

Aries (March 21—April 19)—Don’t forget your protractor when you go to Dana 104. You are not going to get in
without it. Do not bring magic rocks or sea monkeys into Dana either. Lucky Place: Raptor Center.

Taurus (April 20—May 20)—Bring burnt offerings to new professors. We heard they liked slaughtered goats and vestal Virgos. Please do
not bring them to the Davidsonian: We have harpies. Lucky Place: The Hesperides or Oak Row.

Gemini (May 21—June 20)—You will be visited by a band of roving sprites, elves, nymphs, Lilliputians, fairies, leprechauns, and Liverpudlians.
You’d think they’d be nice, but they’re not. They are evil. Lucky Place: Davidson Pond.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)—You will be showered with luck this week. You are an amazing person, beautiful and talented with
much appeal in every way. To capitalize on your many natural talents, do nothing, you’re perfect.

Leo (July 23—August 22)—You are the unacrapper.

Don’t miss P.E. 101!
or you’ll be penalized.
— A public service message.
