THE Davidsonian

PRACK PAGE INTERVIEW

MONDAY, APRIL 22, 1996

Through the tragedy, comedy, and fairy tale of it all, Frederick Buechner tells the truth

April 15, 1996

In your writing, your language is clearly religious in overtone, yet not explicitly evangelical or orthodox in terminology. For example,
in The Alphabet of Grace, you suggest that the way to the divine is through the human, through the particulars
of everyday life. Such a statement reflects the lack of trust which you have described to have received from both
the secular press and the more fundamentalist Christians. How have you dealt with often finding yourself positioned between these two
camps?

I honestly don’t worry too much about them, I just do my thing. What is essential to me is that
I get to the heart of what I believe and want to share with others, what is important to me.
The difficult part of being religious and being a novelist is that so many book reviewers think that if you
are in the ministry, they assume that you do nothing but preaching in your books, even before they have read
the book itself. It is unfortunate that it happens that way. There have been times in my life when I
almost thought about writing under a pseudonym so that people wouldn’t know who I was, just so I could get
my message across. But the other side is that I have been under the sharply critical eye of the fundamentalists;
for example, I have drawn a negative response from them in response to my book Wishful Thinking, in which I
stated that the Bible is a mixture of the sacred and sublime, and that the Bible cannot be taken entirely
literally: do you take John the Baptist literally when he calls Jesus the Lamb of God? By and large I
don’t agree with those people, but any poetical and metaphorical device which I use is intended only to enhance the
meaning of what I’m saying and what I feel the essence of the Gospel to be.

To what extent do you consider your expected audience in writing your novels and sermons?

I don’t think about them in terms of whether they are conservatives or liberals theologically, but I do try to
consider what they may have on their minds. My feeling is that no matter how much the audience to which
you preach is conservative or not, inside of every believer there is an element of hunger and skepticism, just as
in every skeptic there is an element of, if not belief, the feeling that they wish they could believe. So
I certainly don’t assume that everyone has accepted the Christian faith, instead I try to take into consideration the dark
part of human nature also, to which the Word of the Gospel is the word of hope.

Yes, as in Telling the Truth, you suggest that people must sometimes hear the tragedy of the Gospel before they
can hear the comedy and the fairy tale of the Good News — that preachers must address the sadness and
difficulty of everyday life as well as the joyfulness.

Exactly, because everyone knows that that is not always the way life is, life in and of this world. We
are all labor and are heavy laden under the burden of being human. So many sermons start off with the
premise that God is the light to the world, but unless you acknowledge that somehow the ship may be sinking
as well, the implications of this statement cannot be fully understood. The tragedy of the Gospel is that man is
a sinner, that he is often false-hearted and a slob. But the Gospel also involves the news that he is
loved anyway.

Where do you see your position to be in respect to the Church?

I wish that I had a church nearby where I could go and find some true sense of the presence
of God; I live in the country and have not found anything close to me which has been just that.
There have, however, been certain times in my life when the Church has been essential to my growth: My early
days in George Buttrick’s Madison Avenue church, and in the chapel at Wheaton College where I preached and found God’s
very real presence. There was also a period of nine years during which I was writing a lot of books,
including the Bebb books and The Hungering Dark, when I used to write in a Sunday school room in a
little church in Manchester, Vermont. Every morning there was a prayer service which the minister gave by himself, so for
nine years I was there, and those fifteen or twenty minutes every morning were a marvelous time in which I
found the church to be a haven and a source.

BUECHNER BECKONS

Staley Lecturer, Rev. Frederick Buechner, spoke on three different occasions during his stay at Davidson. His talks called “The Faces
of Jesus” and “The Longing for Home,” and his fiction reading attracted many eager and attentive listeners. Buechner, the author
of 13 novels and 14 works of non-fiction, uses writing to explore human’s...Relationship with Christianity, faith, and God on everyday,
accessible terms. In his writing, he attempts to bring new life to Christian ideas and terminology that have lost their
power in modern language. He was nominated for the National Book Award in 1971 and the Pulitzer Prize in 1980.
Courtesy of College Relations, his message is one of liberation.

Recently I’ve been reading Eudora Welty’s "The Optimist’s Daughter," which, like several of the other works that I have mentioned,
is not overtly religious writing, but deals with life as it plunges into the depths of mystery and the truth
of experience. It is impossible for anybody to leave behind the darkness of the world he carries on his back
like a snail, but for God all things are possible. That is the fairy tale. All together they are the
truth.

It seems that writing a sermon is the art of a creator. When you write your sermons, do you consider
yourself to be principally an artist or a preacher, or are they one and the same? I hope the latter
is true... The worst thing that I could do in a sermon is to cause someone to think that it
is poetry and craft and that that’s all it is. I’m not writing to impress or to dazzle people, but
rather to tell the truth about what I believe. But on the other hand, in sermons as in anything else,
because I have been writing for so long, I am terribly conscious of imagery and style. I want to say
it right, I want to keep it fresh, instead of falling back on the tried and true, traditional approach.

You have mentioned that you do not necessarily find continual nourishment from the Church as an Institution. As a minister,
what of joy? I used to think that my main reason for going to this church was to write, but
I later believed that just the opposite was true, that I was really going there in need of daily prayer
and reflection. My moments of grace, however, typically come not through the church, but through people I meet, places I
go, and books that I read.

What writers have provided you with the greatest source of spiritual and intellectual nourishment? The ones which have nourished me
the most are Graham Greene’s "The Power and the Glory," which is largely preoccupied with sin and moral failure, Shakespeare’s
"King Lear," which is tragedy, comedy, and fairy tale all at once, and nearly all of the writing of William
Maxwell, who was for many years the literary editor of The New Yorker. Maxwell is wonderful, he has a simple,
cool New Yorkian style, and is understated, clean, and so transparent.

In an age in which cultural diversity and respect for non-Western beliefs are embraced, how would you respond to the
verse from John 14:6, in which Jesus says, “I am the way and the truth and the life. No one
comes to the Father except through me?” Beyond finding God in the everyday people and places of our lives, do
you think that the truth as the Gospel is absolute, or that the truth may be revealed to us by
God in different religious forms and traditions?

As I see it, Jesus does not say that the Christian faith founded on my teachings is right and all
other teachings are wrong. He does not say that a religion founded on my name is the way and the
truth and the life, nor would he say that the Church is either. Jesus says, “I am the way and
the truth and the life.” Which I take to mean that the kind of life that he lived and embodied
is the real truth. There is no question that Christ’s sort of life and virtues are being lived out around
the world by people who have never heard of him. I do believe that the doctrine of the Church touches
upon the true Christian faith, but even the Catholic Church, which is apt to be the most rigid in doctrine,
has said that salvation is possible outside of the Church. You cannot limit the saving power of God to any
certain people or faith.

What kind of message would you like to leave with Davidson students and faculty, to believers and nonbelievers alike? Listen
to your life. See it for the fathomless mystery that it is. In the boredom and pain of it no
less than in the excitement and gladness. Pay attention, keep your eyes open... Stop, look, and listen, watch where your
feet take you, watch what brings tears to your eyes, tears of joy and sorrow, as well as unexpected tears.
That is often a signal that something important has happened. Remain open to possibility too, be flexible about what you
believe and don’t believe, for if you don’t, you will cease to challenge your faith and will close many doors.
In the last analysis, all moments are key moments, and life itself is grace.

BY CHRISTINE ROBERTS ...with special thanks to the members of Professor Abbott’s English 291 Class.
