6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Week in Washington: Dole wins Iowa, Gramm pulls out of the campaign

By David Santschi
Washington Week Correspondent

In a surprisingly close race in the Iowa Republican caucuses Tuesday, Republican front-runner Sen. Bob Dole (R-KS) pulled off a narrow victory despite a strong challenge from commentator Patrick Buchanan. Dole led the Republican candidates with 26% of the vote. Buchanan was close behind with 23%, followed by former Tennessee governor Lamar Alexander with 18%. Rounding out the Republican field were millionaire publisher Steve Forbes with 10%, Sen. Phil Gramm (R-TX) with 9%, and former State Department official Alan Keyes with 7%. Sen. Richard Lugar (R-IN) and two businessmen, Robert Dornan and Morry Taylor, picked up little support.

Because Dole is from a neighboring farm state, he was expected to do well in Iowa. Buchanan was the major surprise, vaulting into second place through his appeals to social and Christian conservatives and his protectionist stance on trade.

After finishing poorly in Louisiana and Iowa, Phil Gramm dropped out to concentrate on winning re-election to the Senate. Gramm had raised $19 million through 1995 and once was Dole’s strongest challenger. In a statement Wednesday, Gramm admitted that “maybe there is not a market” for a social and economic conservative. Taking a parting shot at Buchanan, Gramm said, “Our party can never follow the path of protectionism.”

Meanwhile, the campaign was in full swing in New Hampshire, the site of the first Republican primary. In a televised debate on Wednesday, the candidates focused their comments on trade and job creation, which are important issues in New Hampshire. Buchanan and Alexander repeatedly attacked Dole for negative advertising. “When you use negative ads, there is a hollowness at the core of the campaign,” said Buchanan. Alexander told Dole, “You're better than negative ads. Why don’t you pull them?” To which Dole responded, “I didn’t know about negative advertising until I saw you do it against Pete Wilson,” referring to Alexander’s commercials against former contender and California governor Pete Wilson.

Here is a rundown on the leading candidates:

1. Dole — Despite his Iowa victory, his campaign is failing to generate strong enthusiasm, and he has failed to establish a coherent campaign theme. His popularity is highest among the elderly, while Buchanan is leading among social conservatives. Six recent polls show that he and Buchanan are virtually tied in the New Hampshire race.

2. Buchanan — His campaign is pleased with his performance in Iowa, but he needs to overcome Dole’s portrayal of him as “an extremist” to win New Hampshire. He has been particularly effective at using radio call-in shows and television interviews to gain free media coverage. However, his campaign manager, Larry Pratt, resigned Thursday amid allegations that he attended meetings of right-wing militias and white supremacist groups.

3. Alexander — The former governor has risen steadily in the polls. While avoiding directly negative ads, he has tried to convince voters that Dole and Buchanan cannot defeat Clinton. His strategy has been to paint himself as an “outsider” and call for reducing the size of the federal government.

4. Forbes — His campaign announced that if he finishes below fourth in New Hampshire, he will withdraw from the race. Despite outspending his rivals three and four to one in Iowa, his string of negative ads against Dole has backfired. Also, the other Republicans have dismissed his idea of a flat 17% income tax, which is losing support.

Sources include: February 13 of The Washington Post and February 15 and 16 of The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal.

Global Perspective

Thirty-year terrorist war makes for uneasy peace in Ireland

By Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

In order to clear up any misconceptions, one must understand that this writer did not mean to imply that the events that occurred in the early 1900s were the beginning of the Irish-British conflict. The conflict between the Irish and British has existed for centuries. This series, however, is only concerned with the formation of the IRA and to a lesser extent Sinn Fein (the IRA’s political wing). For this reason, the entire history of the conflict has not been included in the series.

IRA Series

Last week, we looked at the origins of the IRA. After being formed to continue the quest for independence of Northern Ireland after WWI, the IRA began a gradual decline which, by the 1950s, had brought it to the brink of extinction. The mid-1960s, however, re-energized the IRA in response to a new wave of Protestant agitation and riots. The new IRA was led by a new generation of Republicans who were much more organized and vocal than those in the past. Perhaps one of the most monumental occasions in the formation of the IRA came during the riots and attacks on Catholics that took place in Northern Ireland in 1968. Protestant forces, led by Ian Paisley (a Protestant minister), attacked unarmed Catholics and rioted.in Catholic towns while the RUC (The Royal Ulster Constabulary) stood idly by or deserted their beats altogether. This was the main event that convinced the IRA that the only way for Catholics to remain safe and for the North to be freed of British dominance was through force. It was that belief that submerged Northern Ireland into a state of war for 30 years. Cities, towns, and families in Northern Ireland were torn apart as terrorist campaigns and British police responses (many times as brutal as the terrorist acts themselves) made violence, fear, and hate a way of life for the people of Northern Ireland. What was perhaps most unique about the fighting that took place after the ’60s was that it was not simply contained to Northern Ireland. The British mainland, and London in particular, became prime targets for IRA bombs. This brought the conflict to the front doorsteps of the British. This state of quasi-war continued into the 90s. But everyone gets tired of fighting after a time, and after 30 years, both sides seemed ready to talk peace. And so 16 months ago, a cease-fire which was originated and guided through by the Clinton administration brought the fighting to an end. That peace came to a violent end last week when the IRA detonated a bomb in the Docklands on the 9th of Feb. Gerry Adams, Sinn Fein’s leader and the man who has guided the peace process from the IRA side, said that he regretted what had happened. Clinton and Major reflected that same sentiment (if in a slightly more vehement form). But it has become apparent that no matter how the leaders feel or what they say, peace will only be achieved when the people are willing to forgive and forget. And unfortunately, as recent events have shown, that still may be a long time in coming.

Sources: Newsweek Feb 19

Time and ELSEWHERE: FEBRUARY 19, 1996

Chinese war games
China is continuing to put pressure on Taiwan and its president, Lee Teng-hui, to not hold elections. Over 400,000 troops were mobilized by China for war games off the coast of Taiwan. The US has issued a warning that any actions of aggression taken by China against Taiwan would have “very grave consequences.”

Economist Feb. 10-16

Demonstrators march in Chechnya
There was further unrest in the break-away Republic of Chechnya last week when demonstrators marched in support of the withdrawal of Russian troops from Chechnya and the return of President Jokar Dudaev.

Economist Feb. 10-16

Aristide hands over power
In Haiti, former-president Jean Bertrand Aristide handed over power to President Rene Preval in the first peaceful turnover of presidential power in Haiti since its independence 192 years ago.

Economist Feb. 10-16

Republican candidates down to eight
Phil Gramm became the first of the Republicans to discontinue his bid for the Republican nomination as presidential candidate. With his withdrawal last week, the number of Republican contenders is cut down to eight with Dole, Buchanan, and Alexander in the lead.

Charlotte Observer and Time Feb 19

Different schools, different philosophies
A saying at MIT goes, “Choose Two: friends, sleep, or study.” Now, the school is taking steps to allow students to at least try for the first choice. Massachusetts Institute of Technology students can now take a break from their high-tech classes in fiber optics or quantum physics to learn the kinder, gentler arts at their newly formed Charm School. Although the one-day Charm School is neither required nor worth any credit hours, several hundred students come anyway to learn a new social grace or two. “How to Ballroom Dance,” “How to Ask for a Date,” and “How to Tell a Joke” were just some of the lessons offered at this year’s class. Students received a “Charm coupon” each time they successfully completed a lesson; six coupons were worth a Charm School Bachelor’s degree, eight garnered a master’s, and an ambitious 12 earned a Ph.D. “Year after year students move from a college environment to a professional one,” says Kathleen Rowe, director of media relations at MIT, “All of a sudden they encounter a different way of life, this gives them a chance to ask questions and better adapt to it.”

College Press Service

Excuses, Excuses
You woke up an hour late for class, your dog pulled the plug out of the computer before you could save the term paper that was due, your car ran out of gas. At the University of Akron, professors got together to talk about how “excuse making” has become an art. Among the ways students stated “Why I need an extension...” were: “I have a split personality, and one does not like to do homework,” “I was stuck in an elevator somewhere downtown,” “I kissed the toaster and had to go to the hospital,” “My dog caught on fire,” and ... “I lost the prosthetic arm I write with.” Professors stated the most popular excuses dealt with flat tires, family tragedies, a doctor’s appointment, or a homework-hungry dog.

College Press Service