OPINIONS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1996

Crates, books, sheets, suitcases, and goodbyes all have one thing in common—they are among the essentials the class of 2000
brought to Davidson last Thursday. Aside from our tangible possessions, we also brought minds open to the ways and ideals
one might be accustomed to in college. In short, the freshmen send rave reviews about college life from Davidson’s unique
Honor Code to the off-the-wall mixers with other halls. So, we would like the chance to give everyone else a
trip down memory lane by remembering our first impressions of life here at Davidson.

Reading about the Honor Code from brochures and the application gave us a very one-dimensional understanding of its full meaning.
We had heard about the benefits of self-scheduled exams and not having to worry about leaving our backpacks around campus,
but our full responsibility and role did not completely reveal themselves until we were able to see the Code in
action. Davidson’s Honor Code truly impresses us. It creates an atmosphere on campus unlike any other college. Here, students are
given freedom because honesty and responsibility constitute an integral part of daily life. Thank you to upperclassmen and alumni who
have loved their school enough to keep such a tradition alive. We pledge to uphold our part of the bargain.

Before arriving on campus, veteran Davidsonians warned us about our future workload. Yet, in our naive adolescent world, we laughed
in disbelief at the outlandish descriptions of 100-page reading assignments, multiple term papers, science labs, and PE 101. Well, forgive
us for our disrespect—we believe you wholeheartedly now. Not 24 hours of the academic year had passed before the freshman
class had joined the ranks of study-carel dwellers. When we are not beating our heads against the sides of our
favorite carel, you can find a freshman stressing over Vail’s gourmet cuisine: “Do I want Indiana Chick Peas or the
Shrunken Pinto Peas?” After a week of experimentation, we have found the salad bar, garden burgers, and vast selection of
“fro-yo” to be our personal favorites. Aside from giving us the “freshman 15” with plenty of fries and blueberry cheesecake
ice cream, Vail provides us with a perfect way to bond with our hallmates while observing their obscure eating habits.

Yet our most entertaining, and at times our most revealing, moments have been our beloved hall activities and mixers. On
Tuesday night, we had the privilege of giving the boys of basement Belk a much-needed makeover with various flavors of
cake/shaving cream masques. We believed our artwork on the boys to be quite an improvement. Unfortunately, they did not agree
and retaliated with tubs of water and fistfuls of cake. In the future, we hope they will mind their manners;
women of the 90s demand their respect. All in all, our first week has given us a preview of our
next as we begin to bushwhack through the college jungle. One of the many things we are greatly anticipating is
the good old-fashioned fun during our “First Night Down!” Yet until September 20, we will continue to make our cosmetic
rounds to the other boys’ dorms.

Catherine Anderson
I am really not a pessimist. On a good day, my glass is usually half full, the grass is pretty
green in my own backyard, and there is most certainly a light at the end of my tunnel. But as
I grapple with the recent tragedies Americans face today, first the senseless downing of TWA flight 800 and the equally
disturbing Olympic Park bombing, my glass seems awfully empty, weeds are attacking my lawn, and the bulb just burned out
and I can’t see a thing. I am discouraged. And ticked off and angry and afraid. As a young person
with one more year of college and imminent freedom pacing at my doorstep, I feel no more excitement for pending
liberation than a roast pig on a platter. After narrowly escaping the Centennial Olympic Park bombing in Atlanta this summer
by a short half-hour, my once solid foundation of moral faith in our country was suddenly uprooted and replaced by
uncertainty and fear. With these events, following in the wake of not-so-distant tragedies, namely the World Trade Center bombing, the
Oklahoma City bombing, and the ValuJet crash, I am desperately searching for a foothold of hope in this country that
I cannot seem to find. I am scared. I found out on Saturday morning, I just know that I felt
utterly exhausted from taking in the shock of it all. I am disappointed. In my future, my foundation, and my
country. Despite labeling preconceptions, I was proud of my country, eager to hold my

Will Bradshaw
I love the Honor Code. It helps foster a trusting atmosphere that not only breeds closer ties in the college
community but propagates personal responsibility and personal accountability. But there is a part of it that doesn’t sit well with
me. It didn’t two years ago when I wrote my application to Davidson, and it doesn’t now. Page two in
the student handbook reads: “Every student shall be honor bound to report immediately all violations of the Honor Code which
come under his observation; failure to do so will be a violation of the Honor Code.” Or, as I understand
it, it is an Honor Code violation not to immediately report suspicion of another peer’s transgressions to the Dean of
Students. My feelings, as do those of so many others, do not fit into nice neat categories under the classification,
“close encounters.”Head high on the soil of a people who see us as lazy, rude couch potatoes (not necessarily in
that order), and prove them wrong. I saw the Olympics, too, as the opportunity of a lifetime, a chance for
every nation to put aside differences and peacefully July 27, that the pre- After narrowly escaping the Centennial Olympic Park
bombing in Atlanta this summer by a short half hour, my once solid foundation of moral faith in our country
was suddenly uprooted and replaced by uncertainty and fear. But although I feel abandoned and discouraged, I am overwhelmed. The
English language cannot do service to the wave of emotions engulfing me as I read the Saturday morning headline in
the Atlanta Journal-Constitution, “Park Explosion,” nor can I imagine a language that could. Words like horror, disgust, terror, and guilty
relief seem much too inadequate.

I choose the word “peer” here deliberately. We are all students of Davidson College. We all play, work, eat, celebrate,
and live here together, and we have a responsibility to each other that comes from being a part of this
community. When we are forced, under threats of our own suspension, to immediately report violations of the Honor Code to
the Dean of Students office, we do each other a disservice. Before we run to the administration, we have a
duty to approach our peer and confront him/her with the suspected violation.

Let me explain. When I signed the Honor Code, I made a pact with my classmates and the students who
had come before me to do as well as I could in life without breaking the rules. In signing, I
asked them to help me uphold my promise, and promised to help uphold theirs. Are we helping anyone when we
turn our back on a violation and report it to the administration instead of confronting the violator with his/her own
broken pact? I don’t think so. Besides, my promise was personal, but there is nothing personal about anonymously pointing fingers
at faces behind closed doors.

The Honor Code, as it now stands, cuts against the most precious aspect of this college, our faith in each
other. My allegiance is not to these buildings, the grounds, or even the ghosts of past students, but rather to
the people who walk these grounds every day. The individuals who make this campus a vivacious entity, and make me
proud to say I am a Davidson College student.

And maybe I’m too idealistic. Maybe I have too much faith that other students would be willing to approach a
peer and ask if he/she was cheating. I have a friend who thinks I do. She says that forcing people
into confrontational situations will keep students from reporting each other and slowly eat away at the code itself. Maybe she’s
right. I don’t know. But what I do know is if I walked into the bathroom during finals and found
this guy reading a page of notes over the sink, I would feel dishonorable turning and walking to the Dean
of Students office to report what I’d seen. My own sense of morality tells me that I am honor-bound to
ask my peer why those notes are sitting before him, even if that’s the more difficult course of action. At
least then I would feel better about what I had done.

Part of the reason many of us come to Davidson College is the Honor Code which we hand down to
each other and protect through the years as students. But, it is time now to re-evaluate what the Honor Code
is and should be about. I believe it should be a personal pact made by the students, to the students,
and for the students. For that to truly happen, then the students must take the responsibility to confront each other
when a violation is suspected, turning to the Dean of Students office only as a recourse if the confrontation fails.

Because I want to see green grass again, and maybe even a dim glow a few feet in front of
me. I want to feel safe in our country because quite honestly I cannot think of a better place to
belong to. Maybe I have been living in a fog so far, but until lately the United States of America
has yet to rain too terribly on my parade. Franklin D. Roosevelt once said: “We look forward to a world
founded upon four essential human freedoms. The first is freedom of speech and expression — everywhere in the world. The
second is freedom of every person to worship God in his own way — everywhere in the world. The third
is freedom from want... The fourth is freedom from fear.” I look forward as well. Fill up my glass.

Senior Catherine Anderson is a former news editor of The Davidsonian.
