THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1996

Construction will not move
By Doug PENHALLEGON
Staff Writer

Concerned seniors can relax; this spring graduation will be held in front of Dana Life Science building just like it has been for nearly three decades. Nelson Chandler, a senior and student representative on the Board of Trustees’ Building and Grounds committee, reported to the SGA that construction of “a substantial addition in front of and joining with Charles A. Dana Science Building” will begin this spring. “This undertaking will be the ‘major project’ for the coming year. Groundbreaking, however, will begin after graduation,” says Chandler’s report.

Construction of the new Life Sciences Building will permanently change the site of the spring graduation ceremony which has been held in front of the Dana building since the early 1970s. Promising that the new site will be somewhere on the front campus, Registrar Polly Griffin assures students that in the future, Davidson will still have “the most gorgeous graduation possible.” Potential new locations for the spring graduation ceremony include the area between Dana and the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, as well as the central quad near the music practice rooms. “We have a lot of room to work with, but shade is a top priority,” says Griffin. She is certain that commencement will still take place somewhere in front of Chambers. In addition, Griffin says, “The construction of a state-of-the-art science building is imperative. The sooner we can get started on that, the better off are the students.” The building will service the biology, physics, and psychology departments.

Hook-up set for Feb?
Dates for dorm connections are uncertain
By ANN HATFIELD
Staff Writer

Student representative to the Trustee Committee on Buildings and Grounds Nelson Chandler says that students will be able to plug into the Internet from their dorm rooms within “a few years.” However, the Director of Computer Services, John Casey, remains much more optimistic. He says, “Knox, Irwin, and Akers will hopefully be on-line in February 1997. We are completing the final steps before hiring a contractor and beginning construction.” Renovated this past summer and outfitted with the necessary fiber network, the sophomore dorms will be the first to receive Internet access. Chandler issued a report to the SGA which states that the committee discussed “the creation of a fiber network connecting all buildings and dormitories on Davidson's campus to a central system, giving every student direct access to the internet from his/her dorm room.” “This project will take several years to complete, but the first stages will begin in the spring of 1997,” says the report.

Class of 1998
Amelia Huguelet Biber
Diana Bruel
Michael Jason Cowles
Loralea Davidson
Brent Moorman Dennis
Allison Jean Ferrentiné
Steve Shu-Hsuan Hsieh
Amy Elizabeth Jones
David Conrad Kearfott
Lynsay Rebecca Madley

The following students were inducted into the Richard R. Bernard Society of Mathematics last Wednesday. According to the evening's program, “Membership in the Bernard Society allows the Department of Mathematics to confer a special honor on Departmental majors and others with outstanding interest and ability in mathematics.”

The following members of the Class of 1997 are current members of the Bernard Society.
Margaret Elizabeth Andrews
Chloe Ingrid Bracis
Elena Simone Franklin
Gregory William Garrison
Clay Charles Lenhart
Maria Michela More
Sakira Vontric Peay
John Brooke Philpott
Hallie Elsbeth Pitkin
Joshua Douglas Roberts
Matthew John Shade
Joy Michelle Sparks
Charles Alan Stormont
Lara Michelle Stovesand
Sandra Adele Symes
Dominick Joseph Talvacchio
Stephen Carroll Elliot
Amy Lynn Scalucci
James Coulbourne Smith
Meredith Leigh Strong
Tanner Elizabeth Thompson
Scott Woodrow Young

POU/D143 Exit 28 off I-77, Cornelius
We Could All Use A Little More
Ultimate Hair Services
Complete Nail Services
Assorted Retail Products
Norman Crossing Shopping Center
Savvy A SALON
Skin Care & Waxing
895-0404

9/21/96 2159 hours
Damage to property
Unknown person(s) damaged southeast brick retaining wall that encloses Richardson Plaza at the rear of Chambers. Approximately half the wall was knocked off, perhaps by a large delivery truck-type vehicle. Damage was estimated at $600.

9/28/96 1000 hours
Larceny-Unknown person(s) removed victim’s camera while attending a house party
Sometime between 9/27/96 and 9/28/96, some unknown person(s) removed victim’s Pentax 900 35mm camera from Kappa Sigma fraternity. She placed the camera on a table behind a speaker while she visited friends on the dance floor. When she returned, the black camera valued at $200 was missing.

9/29/96 0530 hours
Larceny from a building-Unknown person(s) removed camera from office
Between 9/27/96 and 10/1/96, unknown person(s) removed victim’s Canon EOS Rebel X fromthe house’s ballroom area. Victim stated Stakes outline the new life sciences complex. Graduation site Ben DeLisa Davidsonian office. The camera, lens, and flash taken had an estimated value of $440.

10/6/96 0209 hours
Damage to property - Davidson College sign
Some unknown person(s) damaged the Davidson College sign at the entrance of Glasgow Road at Main Street. The green sign was mounted on wooden legs and gave directions to Vail Commons, the dormitories, and Patterson Court. It appeared that a motor vehicle had knocked over the sign, shattering it. Damage was estimated at $200.

10/12/96 1345 hours
Between 1150 and 1345 hours, some unknown person(s) entered a secure dorm room. Suspects then overturned the living room coffee table, threw the cushions around the living room, and opened a cabinet under a stereo speaker. Nothing was taken, according to the victim. The suspect then wrote a message on the victim’s computer, the message being, “I’m Watching You!” The message was 13 pages long and a portion of it was printed on the victim’s printer. According to the victim, it would have taken approximately 10-20 minutes to do this. The computer was turned off when the victim left the dorm. The scene was too contaminated by the victim for latent prints.

10/16/96 1230 hours
Breaking and entering, larceny of a motor vehicle
A 17-year-old white male was arrested for breaking and entering a motor vehicle, and larceny after breaking and entering. The arrestee was confined to Mecklenburg County Jail.

10/24/96 1800 hours
Between 1430 hours and 1800 hours, some unknown person(s) entered the victim’s unlocked room. After entry, the victim’s Toshiba T-1960 CT notebook computer was damaged. The printer was possibly knocked from a shelf above, causing it to strike the computer screen and shatter it. The victim stated that her roommate was the last to leave the room. There were no suspects at the time of the report. Total damage to the computer and printer was estimated at $2500.

Less students studying, more seeking salaries
From page 1
This may partly explain why Tony Butchello recently assumed the post of Assistant Director at the Office of Career Services. Butchello will work as a career counselor, but because the market for holders of bachelor’s degrees “is a different landscape” than it used to be, he says he’ll “be working with the pre-professional students,” specifically to raise test scores and improve interviewing skills, two elements that should increase chances of admission to selective graduate schools. Along with program directors, Butchello will advise students in the pre-law, pre-management, pre-medical, and pre-ministerial programs. Butchello has begun working with all the directors of the College's pre-professional programs, including Dr. Jeremiah Putnam, who heads the pre-medical program.

Putnam says there has been "a tremendous increase" in the number of medical school applications, noting that in 1988, 26,721 people applied to American medical schools, whereas 1995 saw a record 46,500 applicants nationwide, all the while the number of seats remaining constant. This intense competition, along with Jordan's possible explanations for the delay in graduate school entrance, may speak to the recent drop in medical school matriculants immediately after graduation, as reported by the Office of Career Services. According to the Senior Survey for the Class of 1994, 29 graduates were headed to medical school in the fall following graduation. But in 1995, only 8 went right afterwards. Still, these figures don't take into account the numbers of Davidson alumni who enter medical school every year, says Putnam, who notes that he is "supporting several students in the Classes of 1986, 1987, 1992, and 1994." He also advises Davidson graduates in non-health-related fields who want to enter medical school, among them a lawyer in south Texas and a businessman in Virginia.

Some students believe that the construction of pre-professional curriculums and the current post-graduate climate make direct entry into graduate programs difficult. Senior biology major and pre-med student Ken May says that "It takes a long time to do the requirements [for pre-med]. You basically have to get them finished your junior year if you want to go right on to medical school." May, who is waiting a year to apply to medical school, says that he took longer to complete pre-med classes because he wanted to devote more time to each one. With the pressure Davidson students feel now, he says several professors tell him they see no reason to rush into the stressful world of medicine. "You might as well take some time off," he says.

GO TO THE GALLERY CRAWL IN CHARLOTTE ON FRIDAY NIGHT
SIGN UP AT THE UNION DESK BY WEDNESDAY.