OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1996 — 9 THE DAVIDSONIAN

FACULTY VOICE

With Valentine’s Day rapidly approaching, I thought it might be a good idea to discuss a topic that seems to bother a lot of people here at Davidson. Why a Women’s Film Festival?

Ever since a small group of students, advised informally by a couple of faculty members, began planning a women’s film festival at Davidson, this question has been asked. Now that the festival is off and running, and now that it has drawn large and appreciative audiences, I would like to offer some answers to this deceptively simple question.

First, why a festival of film? For one thing, film is the medium of choice for the current college student, who is as likely to ponder going to film school or writing a screenplay as she is to contemplate working for First Union or going to law school. Several Davidson courses include or feature film as a subject of scholarly study. Film, we thought, also offers great flexibility and wide accessibility. Film festivals are growing in number, and thus in influence in the US, and indeed, all over the world. For many young and unknown filmmakers, a film festival is their best shot at securing funding for future projects. In this dark time of increasing attacks on the entertainment industry — and the ominous hobbling of the National Endowment of the Arts by Congress — we felt it crucial to present to the Davidson community dynamic examples of the best in recent films.

Next, and more complicated: why a festival of “women’s films”? And what do we mean by “women’s films,” anyway? Most of the festival films are directed by men, a fact that merely reflects the economic realities of the movie marketplace. Only a handful of female directors can claim commercial success or any degree of notoriety. So we strove to find the best we could from among the few films directed by women, and we also aimed to showcase those films by male directors that were interested in female characters (Pedro Almodóvar’s Women on the Verge, for example) and those that presented thought-provoking reversals of the usual gendered relationships (John Dahl’s The Last Seduction).

We, as a college community, recently have given renewed attention to the “gender gap” here at Davidson, thanks to the student publication Libertas, and, I would like to think, thanks to this first-time women’s film festival. In conversations with my students, male and female, I hear wonder at this emphasis on women, and on gender inequities. They just do not “see” it. To my eyes, such inequities are everywhere, and they cut in both directions: Davidson men and women suffer equally from severely circumscribed opportunities for social and intellectual interactions. Men do not seem well-acquainted with issues of female sexuality and identity; women seem not to see their male counterparts as people they can be friends with, and to. These “women’s films” offer us all an opportunity to see differently. They offer us glimpses of lives unlike ours — and in cultures unknown to most of us — a chance to peek at the nuances and subtleties of what it might be like to be “other,” just for a time. Replace the familiar images and stereotypes of men and women. Widen the possibilities and increase our common ground. I invite you, I implore you, to join us for the remaining films in the festival. Come, and change the way you look.

That issue? Male/female relations. I don’t think it’s any secret that there appears to be tension between the sexes on campus. In discussing this matter with friends, I have heard many possible opinions and explanations concerning this disturbing phenomenon. Some of those I’ve spoken with believe romantic relationships can and do exist. Those some, however, were in the minority of those whom I’ve discussed this with. Most are very skeptical as to this possibility. Some, such as my roommate, are very cynical and think it is nearly impossible to have a healthy relationship with a member of the opposite sex at Davidson. While I don’t necessarily agree with him, I do believe a problem exists.

As far as I can tell, there are only three kinds of male/female relationships at Davidson. The first is the strictly platonic relationship. This is the relationship where you say “hey” as you pass in Chambers, or maybe watch movies in a dorm room in groups. However, in this relationship, there is definitely no hint of romantic attraction. Apparently, there is an abundance of this type.

The second kind is the one where the guy and the girl have been in a serious relationship for what seems like years. This usually occurs between someone from Davidson and someone else from another college far far away. People in these relationships can be identified by the fear in their eyes as they check their mail, praying the phone bill hasn’t come yet.

The final type of relationship is the one which I feel is the problem. This relationship happens at Patterson Court parties. Members of the opposite sex simultaneously consume alcohol and lose inhibitions. The result is what is commonly known as a drunken hook-up. After the hook-up, there is a period of non-communication. This is the time period where both people are either wondering if the other simply “hooked-up” because they had been drinking or feel embarrassed because of something they did (or think they might have done). Herein lies the problem that I feel is the biggest obstacle in nearly all relationships at Davidson. Lack of communication. Maybe both participants were truly interested in each other. They’ll never know now because what happened was dismissed as merely another “drunken hook-up.” Perhaps that was all it was.

Still, there is only one way they’ll ever know. Here are my modest offerings for a solution. First, bring back dating. I never see or hear of this high-school type activity happening much around here. I’m sure it does, but I don’t think it happens enough. If people dated more around here I think there would be a very nice in-between to the first and third kinds of relationships I described.scribed. Perhaps this would also lead to more of the second type occurring between two people here, at the same school! Secondly, communicate. It may be difficult or awkward at first, but the more you do it, the easier things will get. Maybe this way if “John” likes “Mary,” he will tell her and ask her out on a date, instead of having a drunken hook-up that makes it very difficult to build a solid relationship on. If you are currently in a healthy relationship and completely disagree with this article, congratulations. If you aren’t, try my advice. Good luck, and may everyone have their own valentine on the 14th to give something special to. I recommend conversation hearts.

The Brothers of Phi Delta Theta

An Apology ...

We would like to apologize for the incident that occurred last Wednesday at the program “Friendship In the Age of AIDS.” We realize that the occurrence was extremely inappropriate and lament the fact that this ever happened. In no way did we wish to undermine the importance and seriousness of the program, nor to offend the presenters, sponsors, and audience. A mistake was made and actions are being taken to prevent the occurrence of such an event in the future. Again, please accept our deepest apologies.

Regression: Davidson’s unique gift

It has come to my attention that some students have felt sort of ripped off that they never receive gifts from Davidson until they get their diplomas (most people don’t consider grades to be a very good gift). That’s right, birthdays and holidays go virtually unnoticed by the Davidson establishment, and quite frankly, I think faculty-sponsored birthday bashes for all students on their 21st birthday might just put a little more spunk into everyone.

I confess that on occasion, I have indeed felt some contempt for Davidson, but generally, I think people are too hard on our school. I realized the other day that Davidson has provided us with a very special gift, a gift that keeps on giving: regression. Now I’m not a Psych major (I didn’t even do so great in 101), but I know what I am talking about here — we are returning to some sort of a primitive state on campus. Allow me to explain.

First of all, I personally have become way too easily entertained in my time here. While I contend that this could be seen as a good thing (laugh at really dumb jokes, thus boosting the self-confidence level of the campus as a whole), others may disagree. For example, some people (Ryan Conatser) have become tired of my continued infatuation with the word “schmoopie.” As you may know, I got this word from an episode of Seinfeld about two months ago and since then, it has provided me with hours of entertainment, while greatly annoying innocent bystanders.

As a side note for those of you who don’t know the proper use of the word schmoopie and would like to add it to your ever-expanding Davidson vocabulary — it can have two meanings. First, I think it can be a noun, as in a pet name of sorts, or it can be an adjective used to describe a person, especially a silly person (like Heather Sweeney, for example). The fun of the word schmoopie is this: find another easily entertained person, and one of you start by saying, “You're schmoopie,” and then the other person says, “No, you're schmoopie” and then you both continue to say, “No, you're schmoopie,” alternately. It’s really quite a fun little game despite its seemingly simplistic nature, or at least it’s fun for simple-minded people like myself. It is also good for people with split personalities.

Another silly childlike thing that I enjoy is throwing water balloons at people I don’t know who happen to be walking below my window. While my roommate, Diane Krause, has scolded me for my immaturity, I would have to encourage everyone to go out and buy a bag of balloons (or if you’re cheap, just get some condoms out of the nearest bathroom) and fill those babies with lots of water and then — bombs away! Don’t ever actually hit the person, just throw it near them and then hide so they can’t figure out who did it.

Okay, enough on entertainment. Has anyone else noticed that they can no longer talk to a real answering machine? My impromptu speaking skills have deteriorated to the point that, when I call someone in the outside world and an answering machine picks up, I actually have to hang up and figure out what I am going to say because, unlike voice mail, you only get one shot.

I can no longer walk like a normal person either. While I’ve never been the picture of grace, this tripping stuff is getting a little ridiculous, and I know it’s not just me that has this problem. Maybe the gravity on campus is especially strong or maybe there is just an unusually large number of treacherous roots and invisible bricks here, but I contend that this too is part of Davidson’s gift to you — some sort of hybrid Legionnaire’s Disease that results in a loss of coordination. I think this is a good thing because it is really funny to see someone trip — it’s one of those things from which you just can’t recover with any degree of normalcy — so it’s quite amusing to all involved parties (the tripper and his various onlookers).

Other examples of Davidson students’ return to their primitive roots that must be mentioned: a strong desire to hibernate in the winter, resulting in a higher level of absences from class in winter months, and an infatuation with fire (especially cigarettes and bonfires). I have also noticed that wookie-type noises have become quite common on campus ... is it wookie mating season?

I think all of these things are positives if for no other reason than endowing the Davidson student with humility. We should be thankful for all that we have, and I’m thankful for Davidson. Davidson does give back in its own special way by promoting the loss of acquired skills and a retrogression to an earlier mental and behavioral level. That’s right, thanks to Davidson, I’m regressing ... and I kinda like it.