SPORTS 14 MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1996

Kruse’s Cubby
Go Yanks?
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

For me, this year’s World Series posed a despicable matchup. As a Red Sox diehard, it is my duty to hate the Yankees with a seething, fiery hate. Ever since Sox management sold Babe Ruth to the Yankees, the Bronx Bombers have represented the antichrist in Beantown. Understandable, considering the Yanks, with the Babe, went on to become the most storied baseball team of all time while the Sox haven’t won the Series since 1918, when Ruth was a young star pitcher for Boston who also swung a mean bat.

And the Braves don’t exactly float my boat either. I'll be blunt. (As if I’m ever anything but.) I don’t like most Braves fans. Ninety percent of them weren’t even fans before 1991, when the Braves, perennial embarrassments in the ‘80s, vaulted from worst to first in the National League. The majority of them live nowhere near Atlanta, hailing from all over the Southeast, and say they love the Braves all season, yet only show it when the playoffs roll around. Bandwagon-jumping, come-late-leave-early, foam tomahawk-flailing, half-assed chanting, fair-weather, and generally apathetic, baseball-illiterate fools.

Even so, I decided to root for the Atlantans. Call it a lack of a better choice. But as the Series progressed, my allegiance gradually shifted. Grappling with my borderline heathenistic crisis, I reluctantly began pushing for New York. But how could I not? The way in which these Yankees won it was fairytale-esque. After the Braves took the first two games in the Stadium by a combined score of 16-1, an ESPNet fan poll asked net-surfers if the Braves would sweep. Yes or No? While the media hinted at yes, the Yankees won the next four in one of the most improbable turnarounds in the history of the Fall Classic.

And the squad was chock full of human interest stories that simply couldn’t be ignored. Yankees manager Joe Torre’s brother, Frank, received a long-awaited heart transplant the day before Game 6. Appropriately, on the only off day during the Series. Third baseman Wade Boggs, who was with the Red Sox in 1986 when they dropped a seven-game heartbreaker to the Mets in New York, avenged his postseason demons in the same city ten years to the day of Game 7 in ‘86. Darryl Strawberry, who started the season out of baseball and played for the minor league St. Paul Saints this summer, played through a broken toe suffered in the ALCS. Paul O'Neill, bum hamstring and all, made the game-ending catch in Game 5 and doubled to begin the decisive three-run third in Game 6.

And when all is said and done, the Braves, hailed perhaps prematurely as the Team of the ‘90s after last year’s Series victory, played bonehead baseball in the four losses. They did not deserve to win. The Yankees did, as they claimed their 23rd world title. And when the last out was made in New York’s 3-2 clincher on Saturday night, I couldn’t help but smile.

Wildcats score win over Eagles, one game away from regular season title
By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

On Saturday afternoon, everything was different. After struggling all year with their finishing, the women’s soccer team (7-9-1, 5-0) converted their first two shots, taking a 2-0 lead over Georgia Southern in the fifth minute. They held on for a 3-1 victory over the second-place Eagles (10-7, 5-2), taking a huge step towards a regular season conference title. They can secure the title with one win this week. They play at App. St. on Tuesday, at Furman on Saturday, and at UT-Chattanooga on Sunday.

“Obviously we came out and we created good opportunities, and we finished them off,” coach Kevin Hundley said. “If you give us two goals with Allie (Noznesky, the goalkeeper) and the defense we’re going to be“Tough to beat.” But the defense has never been a question. “It’s been frustrating being unable to score,” Amy Balsinger said. “We’ve been playing well together, but we can’t put the ball in the back of the net. We know we’re playing well so it’s really frustrating. I think it’s good that we scored three goals because now we know we can. We always knew it could happen, but the fact that we did it in a game will help later on.”

Ginny Dye got the first Wildcat goal when she ran down a through ball from Kelly Schmidt in the third minute. Dye carried it into the box and chipped it past Eagle goalie Mary Perry for a 1-0 lead. One and a half minutes later, Davidson seemed to lose possession in the Eagle penalty area. An attempted clearance was thwarted, and the ball popped across the top of the box to Kelly Ammann. She collected it and knocked it past Perry into the left corner of the goal.

Late in the first half, Linda Rothemund gained possession of a bouncing ball in the penalty area. She was able to shield Perry from it and dropped the ball to Leila Wormuth who knocked it towards Anna Judy. Ginny Dye, the team leader with 8 goals, attacks during their 2-1 victory over Furman on Oct. 16. Defender Ally Hood hustled back into the play and got a foot on the rolling ball for the Eagles. But Hood’s clearance ricocheted off a retreating Perry and bounced into the goal for a 3-0 halftime advantage.

Tara Chaisson broke free in the penalty area in the 82nd minute and beat reserve Wildcat goalkeeper Chesley Garret for the final margin. “We always have a lot of success against GSU,” said Hundley. “It seems like whenever they play Davidson, if something can go wrong it will.”

But last Sunday, the breaks went against the Wildcats, who fell to Wake Forest (7th in the region), 1-0. “We played Wake well. Their team is having their best season ever,” Hundley said. “We played for us very typically. Defensively we were organized, and offensively we created some great chances, but we didn’t score. There is a day coming when we’ll win these games.”

Men’s soccer stops slide with win
By Daniel Motz
Copy Editor

Going into the season, the Georgia Southern game was supposed to be one of the easiest for coach Charlie Slagle and his squad. But on Friday night, the host Wildcats came in as the underdog. Davidson responded well, defeating the Eagles, 2-1, snapping its nine-game losing streak.

The game was preceded by a ceremony honoring seniors Dennis Buck, Fernando Campos, Robert Clarke, Coley Dominiak, Matt Hill, Bryce Jewett, Keith Kleeman, Chad Lagerway, and Isaac Stewart in their last game at Richardson Field.

Georgia Southern (7-8-2, 3-1-1) is enjoying one of their best seasons ever. And on Friday, it looked as though they would have their way when Kevin Hanfman scored off a Chris Carlson assist 13:12 into the game.

Surrendering early goals is nothing new to the Wildcats, but in this game, Davidson battled hard. “I was very pleased with the way we were able to gather ourselves after giving up the first goal,” said Slagle.

The Wildcats began creating offensive opportunities and with 19:10 left in the first half, Clarke collected his team-high seventh goal. And three minutes later, Phil Julien scored the game-winner off a Kleeman assist, his second of the game.

“I had an easy job,” said Kleeman. “I just made the touch pass and Phil made a great shot.”

Davidson continued to play well, outshooting the Eagles, 10-1, in the second half. “We just kept coming at them,” said Slagle. “Obviously we would have liked to add another goal or two, but a win is a win.”