THE DAVIDSONIAN

Students explore possibilities of new co-ed eating house

By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
Assistant News Editor

There was no lack of ideas or enthusiasm among those who attended the open forum for a new co-ed eating house, held the Thursday before Easter Break. The forum provided an opportunity for discussion of the many options open to students interested in establishing a new eating house for both men and women.

Ross explained that the administration is willing to support students who have recently expressed an interest in creating such a house, provided they see a firm commitment on the part of students. While co-ed eating houses have existed within the last ten years, most were abandoned due to lack of student interest. In addition, an attempt to begin a co-ed house failed two years ago.

However, interest in the social option seems once again to be gaining momentum, as shown by the 170 student signatures collected on a petition in support of a co-ed eating house option. At Thursday evening’s forum, organizer Lora Chavis, a junior, voiced her opinion that “a lot of people are looking for a change in the monotony.”

Forum participants strongly agreed and seemed to be enthusiastic at the prospect of inventing an additional option in Davidson’s social scene. Freshman Adam Hickey led a free-response discussion as to what kind of eating house students are interested in creating. Views on alcohol were explored, and suggestions included proposals that the house be dry as well as proposals that the house maintain a BYOB policy.

Forum organizers said they would like to see a co-ed house established next semester if possible. Freshman organizer Jordan deBree reminded everyone that “the formation of a co-ed eating house is going to take energy and trust in the administration.”

The admissions office held the annual “Decision Davidson” for students accepted for the class of 2000 this weekend. Activities for the prospectives included campus tours, student panels, faculty panels, and an address by Junior McGraw Scholar Megan Mitchell. The day ended with a meal on Chambers Lawn.

“Special day” will unite students, community in service festival

By BETH BACON
Staff Writer

National Youth Service Day, held Tuesday, April 23, will consist of three service projects and a community dinner. Reach-Out Vice-president Bill Abrams says, “The event’s purpose is to recognize the union of the community and students through service.” Volunteers are needed to participate.

Crosses from page 1

Freshman Julie O’Connor then taped a list to the original crosses:
1. Easter is about resurrection NOT the crucifixion.
2. No one needs FCA/IVCF/others to dictate his beliefs.
3. Your morals aren’t better than mine.
4. Not everyone is Christian.”

However, Sophomore Demian Dellinger took down the signs from the crosses. “I do not think (O’Connor) had a right to put the sign up on the cross," he says. "She could put it up somewhere else. We should all learn to respect each other’s beliefs and question them appropriately.”

Next, O’Connor put up a sign repeating her statement in front of the crosses. The sign had a sheet on which she wished anyone who agreed with her to sign. That sign was then taken, and O’Connor put her message on large, red poster board and placed them on the columns of the North entrance of Chambers. These signs stayed up for about half the day before they also disappeared. No disciplinary action was taken on either side. The Dean of Students only told O’Connor to not put her message on the actual crosses.anything else, the campus wondered about the protocol for displaying a certain group's message. FCA President Eric Sapp says, “There is a clear set of rules to follow. It takes us two weeks to cut through the red tape. You need permission from the Dean of Students Office and you have to take credit for the display.” Sapp defends the crosses. “It is a freedom of expression. The idea came from a FLAG display a few years ago. It is interesting that when a minority group does it no one minds. When it is Christian, it is like someone is ramming it down your throat.” He defends “the right of everyone to express their views," but he wishes it could have been done in a “less confrontational manner.” O’Connor says she put up her signs because she believes everyone should be able to make their own choice. “At this stage in our lives we should all be able to decide what Easter means," she says, "But the groups putting up the crosses inadvertently feel that their views are the correct ones.” She also adds, “The manner in which I (opposed the display) was not too different than the way they did it. The crosses are put up each day for everyone to view on a daily basis, whether they wish to or not. They could have put up an information booth or table in Chambers, where if people wanted to talk with them, they could.” She received a great amount of feedback from her actions — from both sides. “A plethora of students supported me. The students who did not, anonymously called, and left some fairly disturbing thoughts. I wished I could have discussed the matter with them.” Finally, O’Connor says, “I plan to have an open forum on the issue in the next couple of weeks. I hope everyone will come so that we [as a community] can learn and grow from this experience.”

Participate in a spring clean-up at the Senior Nutrition Center at the Ada Jenkins Center from 1 p.m.-3 p.m. and will be doing work in the yard and cafeteria. Habitat for Humanity will be building on April 23 in honor of the day. Also, students may participate in cricket with children from the community from 4:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. on the lawn in front of Chambers. Sign-ups for these three events will be held in Chambers or the Union lobby throughout the week of April 15. Anyone may volunteer. The community dinner will be held at 6 p.m. at the Ada Jenkins Center. The dinner has been publicized throughout the community to local groups, churches, and organizations. It is open to everyone free of charge. Discussion topics will be presented in order to create interaction between students and community members. Games will be available for students to interact with the children of the community. “We encourage all students to reach out and spend time with our community in some fashion on this special day,” says Abrams.

It's Spring time! It's party time! It's time to get a tan! $4.00 PER SESSION 10 sessions for $33.00 15 sessions for $43.00 20 sessions for $50.00 Monthly Unlimited for $49.00 Located at the Chair Factory 20700 N. Main St., Cornelius Sculptured Nails * French Manicures * Pedicures TREAT YOURSELF TODAY! (704) 892-7030 We provide individualized application through skill and product. All salons are not created equal. Ours was created with YOU in mind. We carry: Aveda Paul Mitchell Biolage Nexxus Senscience

704/895-0404 Norman Crossing Shopping Center I-77, Exit 28--Cornelius, NC