SPORTS MONDAY, APRIL 1, 1996 16

The Boys of Summer: WILDCAT ROUNDUP

Baseball’s back in '96
By DANIEL MOTZ
Staff Writer

The weather is warmer. Flowers are blooming. The birds are chirping. Spring is here and baseball is back. For the
first time since the 1993 season, the full 162-game schedule will be played. As always, trades and free agent signings
have changed the personality of several teams, and here is your guide to the season.

Teams in the American League East were busy during the winter, especially the Baltimore Orioles. Although the O’s haven’t played
in postseason since 1983, that streak will end this year. Baltimore started from the top, signing General Manager Pat Gillick
and Manager Davey Johnson. Gillick worked quickly, signing Roberto Alomar, B.J. Surhoff, and David Wells. Look for Cal Ripken to
have a big year with the pressure of the streak off his shoulders, and Baltimore will sport the Cy Young
winner in Mike Mussina and the A.L. MVP in Rafael Palmeiro.

The Yankees were also busy in the off season. While Don Mattingly, Roger McDowell, and Mike Stanley left town, New
York signed ex-Mariner Tino Martinez to replace Mattingly, former Ranger Kenny Rogers, Tim Raines, and Dwight Gooden. The Yanks also
re-signed pitching ace David Cone. With a solid pitching staff and a sound offense headlined by Paul O’Neill and Ruben
Sierra, the Pinstripes will challenge for a wild card berth.

The Toronto Blue Jays will finish third, the Boston Red Sox fourth, and the Detroit Tigers fifth.

The Cleveland Indians will dominate the American League Central. Their 100-44 record last year was the ninth best won-loss record
ever, and with the acquisitions of Julio Franco and former Cy Young winner Roger McDowell, the Tribe will be even
better in ‘96. However, a return trip to the World Series will be halted by Baltimore.

The Chicago White Sox will challenge the Yankees for the wild card. In signing Tony Phillips, Danny Tartabull, and Harold
Baines, all of whom should protect Frank Thomas, the best hitter in baseball, the Sox bolstered their solid offensive attack.
Chicago hurlers slumped last season, but look for the staff to rebound. The Kansas City Royals, Milwaukee Brewers, and hapless
Minnesota Twins, in that order, round out the A.L. Central.

Last year, the California Angels blew a 10 1/2 game lead in the last month of the season. That won’t
happen again, as the Angels, backed by Tim Salmon’s big stick, should rule the A.L. West. The Seattle Mariners, last
year’s surprise champs, will finish second, followed by the Texas Rangers and Oakland A’s.

The stacked Atlanta Braves will win the N.L. East, led by Greg Maddux’s unprecedented fifth straight Cy Young award. And
despite a recent injury to young star Chipper Jones and an 18-game road trip due to the Olympics, Atlanta’s tomahawk
chop will return to the fall classic.

The New York Mets made it clear they were rebuilding last season when they traded Bobby Bonilla and Bret Saberhagen.
If newly acquired Bernard Gilkey, Jeff Kent, and Rico Brogna can produce enough offense, the Mets’ young pitching staff, led
by Jason Isringhausen, could lead the Mets to a wild card berth. But don’t count on that. The Montreal Expos
should finish third, followed by the Florida Marlins and Philadelphia Phillies.

The N.L. Central will be baseball’s most competitive division. As many as four teams could contend for postseason play. The
Cardinals will be led by Tony LaRussa, formerly Oakland’s mentor and one of the most respected managers in the game.
His presence alone could lead the Cardinals to the division, but the acquisitions of Ron Gant, Gary Gaetti, and Andy
Benes won’t hurt.

The Houston Astros are a solid team, led offensively by Jeff Bagwell, who should have a big year after recovering
from chronic wrist problems, Derek Bell, and Craig Biggio, who is quietly becoming the best second baseman in the National
League. The Astros will capture the N.L. wild card. The Cincinnati Reds and Chicago Cubs, sparked by the return of
Ryne Sandberg, could also compete in the Central, while the Pittsburgh Pirates will undoubtedly finish in the cellar.

The Los Angeles Dodgers will repeat as N.L. West champs. The past four rookies of the year, Eric Karros, Mike
Piazza, Raul Mondesi, and Hideo Nomo, have worn Dodger blue. And they have another candidate this season in Todd Hollandsworth.

The San Diego Padres acquired Rickey Henderson and Wally Joyner, adding punch to a capable offense. Batsman Tony Gwynn will
not only win another batting title, but he will capture the league MVP. The Colorado Rockies and San Francisco Giants
will round out the West.

The Orioles take the A.L. pennant, the Braves the N.L., and Ripken and Baltimore will upset Atlanta in a six-game
World Series. Enjoy the season.

Due to student interest, Baker Sports Complex will be opening at 7 a.m. starting Wednesday, April 3rd.Games in years, the
rugby team topped UNC-Charlotte, 31-12, under the lights in Charlotte on Tuesday. “After a tough loss on Saturday, the team
picked it up and played with the most determination and intensity I’ve seen this season,” club president Thayer Long said
of the performance. Big hits paid early dividends, as Davidson knocked the ball loose in the 49er backline and Long
touched it down for a 5-0 lead. Hank Ackerman added a second try, taking a pass and shaking off several
defenders, and Matt Burkhardt’s kick gave Davidson a 12-0 advantage. But UNCC posted a try to close to 12-5 at
the half. In the second half, Craig Murphy controlled the line-outs while Jason Allen and Mike Lassiter dominated scrum play,
helping the Wildcats keep possession, and allowing scrum-half Bob Yarborough to get the ball out to the backs for some
excellent runs. “It was all clicking tonight. All the work we’ve put in at practice was evident today, as everyone
was doing exactly what they were supposed to be doing. It was beautiful,” Yarborough said. -Will Baldwin

The men’s team took another step in their drive towards conference in a meet at Emory this Saturday. “Overall this
was a really strong performance. The guys are really coming along and we're looking good for conference,” coach Gary Andrew
said. Tim O’Keefe moved up on the top ten performer list with a 9:59 3000-meter steeplechase, improving 26 seconds over
his run last week, and Dan Dearing jumped onto the top ten performance list in the javelin (162’ 5”) and
he now stands as the third-best performer all-time. Other performances highlighted by Andrew were Tripp Franklin’s 5K (16:19) and Steve
Hsieh’s 100 (11.4), and the races teams, both composed of Hsieh, John Leslie, Karim Lawrence, and Carlos Bowen. -Will Bradshaw

Women’s Track

The Women’s Track team outran most of the competition on Saturday in a small school invitational at Emory University. “This
was a really good meet for us compared to how we usually do here,” coach Beth Puckett said. “We’re really
happy with them. Even the girls who didn’t place are getting personal bests.” Jamilah Sawyer highlighted the day with a
school record of 14.85 and first place finish in the 100-meter hurdles. Danielle Mall grabbed another first in discus with
a toss of 130’ 8”, while Venessa Sims soared to a first in high jump (5’ 4”). Other outstanding individual
performances were turned in by Kate Feldmeier in the 1500 (2nd place, 4:07), Laura Burkholder in the long jump (5th
place, 17’ 2 3/4”), and Marie Grisez in the 800 (6th place, 2:28). While the 4x400 relay team of Sims,
Sawyer, Burkholder, and Suzy Burr sprinted to fourth with a time of 4:16. Due to bad weather, final scores were
not tallied on site, but Puckett expects to finish in the top four. “Our main goal is the last two
meets (at Duke Apr. 12-13, and the Southern Conference Finals Apr. 19-20), especially conference,” Puckett said. “We want to see
how many individuals we can place at conference. I’d like to see Jamilah challenge in the 100 hurdles and Danielle
defend her title in the discus, while the 4x400 and 4x100 teams go for the school record.” -Will Bradshaw

The crew team made history this weekend at the Clemson Sprints Regatta, competing intercollegiately for the first time. Davidson placed
entries in both the men’s and women’s college novice four categories. The men finished last in their ten-team field, while
the women placed ninth out of ten. The men held fourth place at the halfway point, but Riverside and Vanderbilt
passed Davidson in the remaining 1000 meters. The women jockeyed with the Furman crew over the entire 2000-meter course for
eighth overall, but crossed the finish line just after the Paladins. “Finally making it to a regatta was the true
victory,” said student coach Jay Hinton. “We’re just excited about reaching our first competition.” -Josh Peklo

The men’s tennis team rebounded from a three-match losing streak this week, blanking Belmont Abbey, 7-0. “It was an important
win for the team,” Jeff Tonidandel said. “Getting turned around going into the meat of the conference schedule was vital
for the morale of the team.” “With a 7-0 win we sent a message to the rest of the conference
that we are ready to play, top to bottom,” freshman doubles specialist Blake Clifton said. The victory put the Wildcats
in a commanding position heading into the conference tournament which is less than three weeks away. “The conference tournament is
the most important weekend of the year,” Dave Coykendall said. “We owe it to ourselves to be ready to play.”
-Tyler Epp

The men's lacrosse team beat Wingate 5-3 here on Saturday, behind two goal performances from Carl deBrux and Ben Schlaffer.
According to player Dave Farrar, Wingate will have varsity status next year. -Staff Reports

892-5971, 892-9908 (Lake Campus) 892-2376 (Baker Sports Complex)
