2 ; THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS BRIEFS

Terms of Trustee alcohol policy vote take effect

Davidson’s trustee vote last spring resulted in major changes in the school’s alcohol policy. The Board of Trustees' decision to uphold the Council on Campus and Religious Life’s (CCRL) recommendation that open containers of alcohol, such as kegs, be banned from campus takes effect this fall. As of the trustee vote, Patterson Court houses are still free to purchase alcohol, so a BYOB policy is not currently instated. Also, according to terms of the vote, party hours of the houses were extended. Beer will not be served on the court after 1:30 a.m. and parties will close at 2:00 a.m.

Sign of selectivity: Davidson’s yield grows

Faced with a vital challenge each spring, Davidson’s Admissions Office must attempt to predict how many of Davidson’s thousands of applicants to admit in order to ensure an incoming class whose size won’t strain but will fully utilize Davidson’s resources. “The typical student who is admitted here is also admitted to four other schools,” said Leonard Satterwhite, Associate Dean of Admission and Financial Aid. There is no certain formula to determine who and how many of these students will enroll in Davidson. The percentage of admitted applicants who choose to enroll in a given school is known as that school’s yield rate. Harvard, recognized as one of the nation's most selective schools, has a typical yield rate of about 75 percent, according to Satterwhite. This year “we were projecting a yield rate of about 41 percent,” Satterwhite said. Last year Davidson’s yield rate was 39 percent. This year, the Class of 2000 reached 42 percent. Satterwhite and his department use “calculation based on past history” to predict the yield when in the process of reviewing applications. Yield may be affected by factors such as the state of the national economy and the quality of the applicant pool.

New mailroom built for faculty and staff

Located where the stage of the gallery used to be on the first floor of Chambers, a new mailroom for faculty and staff has been built. It is still just as convenient as the old mailroom and provides much more space. Irvin Brawley, Associate Director of Administration and Services, explains the move because of the need for “more space and a way to secure the mail.” The old mailroom had open boxes that allowed public access to each box. The new set-up is now similar to that of the post office, although it is not federally regulated. It has 360 boxes with combination locks. There is some early concern by faculty having trouble working the locks, but with time the problems are expected to be resolved. There are 20 boxes for UPS deliveries and larger packages that are opened by a key. Some individual boxes are still available.

NEWS MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1996

Sophomores are finally stylin’

Down-the-hill renovations give Sophomore Year Abroad a brand new look

By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
News Editor

In past years Irwin, Akers, and Knox, Davidson’s three down-the-hill dorms, have been a popular housing choice for sophomores despite the residences’ state of slight disrepair. This year, however, big changes are already underway. Margaret Lumpkin, a junior and Resident Advisor to first Knox, gave a tour of her co-ed hall, highlighting an array of new features. “Everything is basically ‘shiny new’,” Lumpkin said. Some double rooms boast new walk-in closet space and all painting — both inside and out — was redone over the summer. Lumpkin explained that all the doors are new, as are many bathroom fixtures. Brand new dryers and washing machines are in place, recessed lighting was installed in the lounge, and wall-to-wall carpeting now covers the entire hall. “Our [room] is pretty smooth,” agreed sophomore Andy Roark, a first Knox resident. The building’s duct work was renovated this summer to provide each room with individual heat and air conditioning control. “We will be hooked up to fiber optics soon,” said Lumpkin, who pointed out the outlets which have already been installed in individual rooms. Although Knox seems to have completely transformed, Lumpkin noted that “there.

Write for The Davidsonian! Come toOur meeting at 6:00 Monday night in the 900 Room—it won’t last long. If you missed it, then give us a call at —2148. Call Kirsten for News, Kristen for Opinions, Emily for Arts and Living, or Will for Sports.

FREE FREE
Sueded Rayon Scrunchies
(COME ON IN AND GET SOME)
COMPLIMENTS OF DREAM WEAVER
A CLOTHING STORE
AN INTERESTING & ECLECTIC COLLECTION
JUDY AND GREG
OWNERS, DESIGNERS, AND CREATORS (NO IMPORTS)
106 S. MAIN ST. DAVIDSON
2 DOORS SOUTH OF THE SODA SHOP

GREAT FOOD
10% DISCOUNT ON ALL PURCHASES

AND YOU FINALLY TURNED 21 ... Let me in! Sophomore Bob Ilonecean tries to beat down the door, devastated at the closing of Davidson's old favorite bar and restaurant, Backstreet. The restaurant closed down this June and is now completely boarded up, much to the lament of regulars. Rumors have it that a family restaurant is moving in ... The Davidsonian will be investigating.

Will Bradshaw is no new furniture.” She said that Knox’s second-floor kitchen will be ready soon. Changes are evident from the outside as well. The building’s front porch columns are new, as are the two vending machines that grace each of Irwin’s, Akers’, and Knox’s entrances. Safety screens which cannot be cut or torn were recently installed in the windows. Although the screens can be removed from inside the rooms, they must be professionally reinstalled. While Irwin and Akers underwent similar structural changes to Knox this summer, they do not yet boast all of Knox’s amenities. However, Lumpkin says, down-the-hill renovation will continue throughout the year.

Senior class committee formed
By Kirsten Recknagel
News Editor

Taking a new approach to the Senior Class gift tradition, 18 members of the Class of 1997 recently formed a Senior Class Committee responsible for not only the class gift, but for bringing their class together during its last year at Davidson. Warren Buford, senior and Student Government Association President, said the group hopes to increase class unity. Through a series of socials, the senior class will have ample opportunity to form a closer sense of camaraderie before entering the post-Davidson world. Now in its initial stages, the committee has no official leadership, although chairs will be chosen soon. Meredith Strong, a committee member, said that her 17 fellow members include “a broad mix of people” with a common mission “to bring the class together.”

Jack McCarthy receives bone marrow transplant from brother Cormac
By Kristen Richardson
Opinions Editor

Late last year, the Davidson Community was devastated by the news that Jack McCarthy had contracted acute myeloid leukemia. Jack is the three-year-old son of Political Science professor Susan Roberts and Director of Development Kevin McCarthy. Over the summer there were several major developments in Jack’s condition. In April of last year, tests proved that Jack and his brother Cormac were perfectly matched for the necessary bone marrow transplant. Doctors at Duke University Medical Center performed the operation on June 28. The operation was successful, but it was necessary for Jack to remain in the hospital for the standard hundred days so that his condition could be monitored closely by his doctors. Pat Gardner, who works in the office of the Dean of the Faculty, reports that Jack is doing well. She spoke recently with Kevin McCarthy, who commented that Jack’s white blood cell counts are good and that his eyelashes and eyebrows are beginning to grow back. An enormous amount of people have rallied around Jack and his family. Jack’s Rabbits is a group of friends, colleagues, and supporters that have worked to facilitate necessities for the family.

WANT TO HELP?
To become involved, phone Pat Gardner in the Dean of Faculty’s office at 892-2204. There is a special update on Jack’s condition available via a voice mailbox at 892-2675. To obtain additional information or to find out how to become part of the efforts to help, there is a newsletter available in the Dean of Faculty’s office.