ELSEWHERE | 6 : THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1996

Political Perspectives

The Davidsonian Professor

Why hasn’t Bob Dole’s campaign taken off?

With about a month to go before the presidential election, public opinion polls show President Clinton maintaining a double-digit lead
over Republican Bob Dole. Perhaps most notable about Clinton’s lead is that it has remained remarkably stable for the last
two months; the post-convention “bounce” enjoyed by the Republicans didn’t last very long, and six weeks of intensive campaigning has
caused little change in voter preferences. It would be premature, of course, to conclude that no dramatic changes in the
fortunes of the candidates will occur during the next month. We’ve only seen one of several debates, for example, and
a Clinton or Dole gaffe or unforeseen event could shake things up considerably.

Absent such surprises, one might ask why the 1996 campaign has failed to stir the electoral pot in exciting or
unpredictable ways. One factor, to be sure, is the different role played by Ross Perot this year. Four years ago,
he was seen as a somewhat eccentric but serious candidate who offered a fresh alternative to the major party candidates.
Now Perot is simply eccentric. But the major problem facing Bob Dole is that he cannot “frame” the election in
ways that will work to his advantage. That is, he hasn’t been able to get voters to see this election
as being about issues or themes that advantage Bob Dole, and disadvantage Bill Clinton.

What does Dole want voters to think that this election is about? Thus far, the Republican campaign has told voters
that, first, this is an election about the size of government. Second, this is an election about trust (translation: candidate
character). The premise of the GOP campaign is that if voters see this election primarily as a choice between candidates
with competing visions of the role of government in our lives, Bob Dole will win. Or if voters see the
choice as a referendum on the integrity or character of the candidates, Dole will win. On both counts, Dole’s advisers
are correct. The problem is that their efforts to frame the choice in terms of these two issues have thus
far failed.

How do you run against Big Government? Cut its lifeline: taxes. Dole promises a 15% tax cut (remember Dole in
his nomination acceptance speech in San Diego: “IT’S YOUR MONEY?”), promises to “end the IRS as we know it,” and
promises to balance the budget. Though such promises are popular with voters, this year the Big Government issue appears to
have taken a back seat to the Healthy Economy issue. A New York Times/CBS News poll of several weeks ago
showed that almost three-fourths of Americans think the economy is “good” or “very good,” and 55% approve of the way
Clinton is handling the economy.

How do you run on Character? Emphasize Bob Dole’s impressive military career (and let voters draw the contrast with Clinton),
and remind voters of the “moral looseness” of the Clinton administration, especially with respect to the drug issue. As Dole
has said often on the campaign trail, “we said ‘just say no.’”; Clinton says, ‘just say nothing.” The problem for
Republicans so far is that voters don’t appear to be buying the character contrast — perhaps because, for better or
worse, they simply don’t see character as a critical issue for presidential leadership.

Republican frustration with their failure to make voters see the election in frames that will advantage Dole is growing, and
it seems inevitable that they will consider other frames (foreign policy? trade? immigration?). Since few issues are obvious winners for
Dole — which is largely due to Clinton’s election year success in defining himself as a centrist — the Republicans
will be sorely tempted to turn up the heat on the character issue. If the trust theme hasn’t worked so
far, some advisers might suggest, perhaps it is because Dole (and his surrogates) haven’t hit hard enough. The last month
of the campaign, then, might feature an increasingly negative and hard-hitting attack on Bill Clinton’s character. It remains to be
seen whether the Republicans will move in this direction or, if they do, whether such a campaign would be effective.
As November 5 nears, however, Dole’s strategists may conclude that the Big Government frame is a loser, and that they’ve
handled the Character issue with, well, too much character. From this point of view, the only themes that might resonate
with voters — the only “issues” that would truly distinguish Bob Dole and Bill Clinton — are distinctions based on
character. If so, hold onto your seats, for the campaign will take a different, and probably nasty, turn.

Yasir Ishaq

Why is Nations Bank, along with the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies, sponsoring a conference on U.S.-China relations? Have
there been any conflicts, or arguments between the two countries? What have the Chinese ever done to the U.S. or
vice-versa? What are the underlying factors in this power relationship that have kept both parties on guard for the past
few decades? Hopefully, this week’s conference will answer some of these questions and perhaps shed some light on the future
of U.S.-China relations.

With the collapse of the Soviet Union and the strong U.S. presence in the Middle East, only China remains a
dominant force in the future. Since the Open Door policy in the ‘70s, China’s economy...has skyrocketed and the country has
become one of the world’s leading superpowers, both militarily and economically. Why China? A look at the questions behind this
week’s China-U.S. Conference. While the country has benefited from economic success, the issue of human rights and other social conditions
have been shoved under the table for the sake of economic prosperity. The question is, who is responsible for this
so-called “success”? The communists have indeed helped China, but in the meantime have sacrificed human equality and other basic rights.
How did the Chinese application of communism have such dynamic effects on the economy? The communists in China even to
this day believe that Taiwan is a province of China and with their assertive military, they may even use this
power to take over Taiwan in the near future. In addition, will China give aid and arms to Pakistan in
their conflict with India? Will China be awarded the Most Favored Nation Status unconditionally and permanently? Permanently granting MFN status
might give U.S. entrepreneurs a boost in their own free markets within China. Where does the U.S. fit in? The
United States believes that establishing strong ties with China will lead to peace and prosperity throughout the world. The U.S.
is also concerned about the current state of human rights in China, and perhaps believes U.S. intervention-democracy could be established
one day. The U.S. does not want China giving arms to either India or Pakistan, knowing internally that a strong
conflict could arise. What about Taiwan? The U.S. hopes that China will reopen diplomatic talks with Taiwan and that they
will both work together to construct a mutual peace agreement. This week’s conference on China will perhaps help us solve
some of these puzzling questions and give hope to a new aspiring power relationship.

International ... Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu returned to Israel last Thursday following a two-day summit in Washington D.C. No
formal statement was issued at the summit’s conclusion, but peace talks between Palestinian and Israeli officials were to resume on
Sunday. Following a string of violent eruptions along the West Bank two weeks ago, Netanyahu began to pull tanks from
the area and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat ordered his forces to put an end to rioting as well. Although December
20 has been declared the ‘pullout date’ for NATO peace forces in Bosnia, 10,000 U.S. forces will remain. These U.S.
Army soldiers will serve as a ‘covering force’ as NATO operations leave. According to U.S. Defense Department schedules, by early
February only 7,500 soldiers will remain in Bosnia and all forces will have departed Bosnia by the middle of March.
A Peruvian jetliner plunged into icy Pacific waters Wednesday morning after the pilot informed the control tower that computers seemed
to be malfunctioning and he had lost his bearings. 70 people were aboard the craft. Poland’s Senate rejected attempts to
liberalize the country’s abortion laws last week. However, Poland’s lower chamber, which passed the liberalization law in late August, can
override the Senate’s ruling. The law would allow women to obtain abortions as late as the 12th week of pregnancy,
if they face difficult social or economic situations.

National Briefs National ... A man who kidnapped a seven-year-old Oregon girl was killed in Yoncalla, Oregon last Thursday when
a police sharpshooter shot him in the head. The unidentified kidnapper took Kristina Jacobson from her babysitter’s home Thursday morning,
stole the sitter’s car, and led police on a car chase at speeds of 110 mph. He was shot after
the car he was driving flipped. Jacobson suffered only minor injuries. Gangs are no longer forced to spread their name
by spray-painting buildings and bridges. Increasing numbers of gang members are logging onto the Internet, forming ‘gangsta sites’ to attract
recruits and post names and addresses of gang rivals. Officials say they fear that gangs’ internet presence could evolve into
drug distribution connections.

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1. Bell struck with a mallet
5. Gives medicine
10. Damage
14. Poet Khayyam
15. Sully
16. Border lake
17. Opera star
18. Within the law
19. Not as much
20. Grass-covered plain
22. Surpasses
24. Shade trees
26. Semester
27. Taken for granted
31. Farm machine
35. Feel sick
36. Military students
38. Floor block
39. Punish a child
41. Collection of anecdotes
42. Twists
43. Pierre's head
44. Deer feature
46. Asian holiday
47. Builds
49. Seasoning
51. Token of affection
53. Faction
54. Mare’s mate
58. More tidy
62. Scarlett's home
63. Sound in steep
65. Wander
66. The Red
67. Business mogul
68. Cheese type
69. Manner
70. Perfume
71. Scream

DOWN
1. Zeus, Odin, etc.
2. Leave out
3. Church section
4. "The — of Wrath"
5. Puzzling situation
6. Small bill
7. Seasoning
8. Vote into law
9. Vendors
10. Assistant
11. God of war
12. Come to the top
13. Untidy state
21. Courage
23. Anger
25. Car style
27. Glue
28. More mature
29. Make jubilant
30. Small depressions
32. S' ship
33. Church official
34. Takes a breather
37. Narratives
40. Piece of
42. Altar girl
44. Gives a hand to
45. Noted
48. Sesame plant
50. Adjacent
52. Kind of boom
55. Starchy root
56. Very dry
57. Short letter
59. Raced
60. Wicked
61. Lively dance
64. Tried for office
