THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1996

16

Weekly Schedule

Men’s Basketball
1/27- @ Davidson 71

Men’s Basketball
Tonight @ Tennessee-Chattanooga 7:30 p.m.
Saturday vs. Appalachian St. 7:30 p.m.

Women’s Basketball
Tuesday vs. Furman 7:30 p.m.
Saturday @ Appalachian St. 2:00 p.m.

Wrestling
Saturday @ The Citadel/N. Carolina 10:00 a.m.
Sunday @ Georgia State/Georgia Tech 4:00 p.m.

Women’s Track and Field
Saturday Tech Invitational @ Blacksburg, VA

Swimming and Diving
Feb. 15-17 Southern States Championships @ Davidson

Come and support the Wildcats on their road to victory!

Ghosts

from page 14

me to motivate myself racing against invisible people 300 miles away, but we did all right. It was kind of
disappointing that this was the last dual meet for the seniors and they don’t get to swim against another team.
But we still had a good time, and we’re looking forward to one and a half weeks from now (the
Southern States Championships).”

The team turned in a lot of season-best times despite the lack of competition.

On the men’s side, season bests were recorded by Freddy Schnell in the 100 and 200 yard backstroke, Jason Prince
in the 200 IM, Bill Paterson in the 50 and 100 freestyle, Mike Wang in the 100 and 200 breaststroke,
Rick Clary in the 200 breaststroke, and Dave Maddux in the 200 freestyle.

For the women, season bests were achieved by Catherine Anderson in the 50 and 100 freestyle, Kathleen Cook in the
50 freestyle and the 200 backstroke, Jen Marenberg in the 100 freestyle, and Kelly Westbrook and Katie Saldarini in the
200 breaststroke.

Kathleen Paffenroth commented on how aware she is of her surroundings in the pool. “You have a feel of where
people are. If somebody’s right next to you, you can see the water moving, but it’s hard to tell when
someone’s behind you. It’s much easier to see someone if they’re in front, but a lot nicer when they’re not,”
she said.

The men’s team hopes to repeat as Southern States Champions and to avenge 9 and 11 point losses to rival
Georgia Southern earlier this season. The women are shooting for at least 3rd place at Southern States.

“We can reach our goal, but we all have to step up and pull our own weight,” Paffenroth said about
the women’s team. “This is a young team and hopefully next year we’ll get an even better freshman class than
right now. With each better class you get, the better your recruits get because they see times improving. Hopefully our
class made a difference on the recruits looking here.”

Rosenquest sounded confident about the men’s chances at Southern States as well.

“We’ve been training so hard and we’ve just started to rest. Different people react to tapering in different ways. Usually
about two weeks out I swim badly. Some people have their times go down in a more continuous fashion. We’re
fighting colds too,” he said, “But we'll be ready (for Southern States).”

SCOREBOX

Davidson 18
Norfolk St. 28
Davidson 19

Swimming
2/4- Davidson vs. Emory
(See “Swimmers ...” article)

ON THE PROWL

Carolyn Kirsch leads the revitalized Wildcat attack.

Summer Help Needed in Latin America

Have a summer full of adventure and invest in your future career while working as a community health volunteer!

Communication
Leadership
Interpersonal

Foreign Language
Cross-Cultural Sensitivity
Management
Organizational

APPLICATION DEADLINE IS MARCH 1. APPLY TODAY!

Countries Served
Mexico
Honduras
Costa Rica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Paraguay
Brazil

Community Sanitation
Human Immunizations
Rabies Vaccinations
Environmental Education
Dental Hygiene
HIV Prevention Education

5618 Star Lane
Houston, TX 77057
800-231-7796

Scholarships available.

Apply to be a SPRING REACH OUT COORDINATOR!

Adult Literacy
Boys and Girls Club
Habitat for Humanity
Elementary Tutoring
Davidson Daycare
Davidson Together
First Methodist Tutoring
Davidson Parks and Rec.
Medical Volunteers
Florence Crittenton
Wonderful Wednesday
AIDS Awareness
Reading Buddies
Adopt-a-Grandparent
Recycling
Arosa House
Crop Walk
Race Big Buddies
Inverse Program

Sign up in the Dean of Students' Office Tues. & Wed. for an interview time on Thurs. or Fri.
Questions? Call Katie Brasfield -6540 OR Bill Abrams -6110
