THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1996

Admissions prepares for the next millennium
Perspectives for 2001 visit campus; counselors prepare to accept class of 2000
By Amy Whitmire
Staff Writer

Monday, February 19th, 259 high school juniors and their parents visited Davidson to attend sessions coordinated by Admissions Counselors Max Hyde and Andy Haile. Kristi Kessler, Assistant Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid, says that admissions goals for Monday’s sessions were twofold. They hoped that the event would not only present Davidson to the students, but would also teach them about the college search process in general.

During the day, various members of the Davidson college community presented different aspects of the school and the admission process to the students and their parents through panel discussions. “The day provided an opportunity for students to learn about both academic life and student life,” says Kessler.

Monday marked the first time that Davidson has hosted an event designed to introduce high school juniors to Davidson. Kessler says that when admission counselors traveled to high schools in the fall, they noticed that most of the students who attended information sessions about Davidson were juniors. Deborah Hogg, Assistant Dean of Admissions, introduced the idea to design an event for juniors in February as they begin the college search process. Davidson is now one of the few colleges with a junior visit program. Kessler says, “the juniors seemed excited about the day. They seemed ready for the college application process and came to the sessions with good questions.”

Hyde felt that the event was successful as well. “Our office designed this program with the intent of introducing high school juniors and their parents to the college search process. The phenomenal attendance (over 600 people) indicates the high demand for that need.”

The admission staff is also busy reading applications for the class of 2000. The application deadline was January 15th, and the Admissions Office hopes to mail acceptance letters to students on March 15th. There were 2,824 applications to Davidson this year. Among that number were 125 applications from African-American students, up from 94 applications last year. From March 15th to May 1st, when students must respond back to Davidson, the Admission Office plans for students to receive weekly correspondence from the Davidson College community. The Admission Office will arrange alumni receptions for accepted students in 20 cities across the country, and accepted students can visit Davidson again on an individual basis during the month of April.

Students nominated for scholarships or who have won scholarships will be invited to campus April 12th and 13th, and Decision Davidson, for all accepted students, will be April 14th.

Fine Arts professors call for more student talent
By Brad D. Chase
Staff Writer

The resounding sounds of nearly 60 voices reverberate through DCPC on a typical Tuesday afternoon as the Davidson College Concert Choir prepares for its four-day jaunt to Florida over Spring Break, and 55 students sit through two rehearsals a week preparing for the April 17 Davidson Symphony Orchestra Concert. Numerous other students participate in voice lessons, choir, and band. Davidson used to have a strong tradition in the performing arts, and many Fine Arts professors do not see why more students today are not participating.

Donna Di Grazia, director of the Davidson Concert Choir and Chamber Singers groups, commented that “I understand students are busy and that there are a lot of other interests at Davidson, but we only have five tenors this year. I know that there are more people out there that can sing.” The choir program was much stronger until the last few years when the choir began touring during spring break. Di Grazia speculated, “The Spring Break tours caused participation to drop almost 50% because students wanted to go other places for Spring Break, and a choir trip was not a top priority, although [the trips] have always been fun and successful.” To solve this possible problem, the choir program is now touring every other year and only for four or five days of the spring break. Di Grazia is optimistic, though, that the choir program is slowly gaining momentum. “I don’t want to get too much too soon. I want to get what we have now established,” Di Grazia added.

Richard Prior, Director of the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra and Composer-in-Residence, had a similar view on the situation, “Things are adequate, but they could be better.” He is glad for what he has, however. “It’s extraordinary that we even exist at this small of a school. At Wake Forest and other larger schools, they have far more students but no orchestra,” Prior added. Prior also stressed that “theorchestra is for everyone. I don’t want people to be scared away because they think they aren’t good enough. There is room in the orchestra for all different levels of ability.”

Reaction from page 1 with fraternity funds. Violation of this policy leaves fraternities legally defenseless should an alcohol-related accident happen at a Court party. “Should something happen ... our insurance,” for which Phi Delt pays $7,000 yearly, “would be absolutely no good,” said Cowan. So high is the risk, Shandley stated that of the 60 recommendations, this was “probably the easiest one [for self-study] to make,” saying, “Kegs are antiques at other places.”

The constant reference to the ban of kegs at other schools leads many students to question how much of the recommendation arises out of a sort of conformity to other schools’ policies. “It’s not so much ‘institutional peer pressure’ as it is the fact that students everywhere are responding because they’re seeing the same increases in insurance and legal precedent ... and see the need to respond to that,” says Beth Bell, PCC advisor.

Kurt Holmes, Director of RLO, cited concern for student welfare as a motive for such a ban. “It does not have to do with the control of alcohol. It has to do with keeping the Court safe,” said Holmes in the February 19 issue of The Davidsonian.

The link between safety and a keg ban is an indirect one, however. “The fact that [alcohol] is so accessible and that it’s free removes personal responsibility to make smart choices,” said Bell. “Banning kegs won’t necessarily make it safer for students. They’ll still have to make better personal decisions,” she says.

Shandley, Holmes, Bell, and Cowan all asserted that this is not an attempt to eliminate alcohol. Says Bell, “I don’t think it’s [part of a] mission ... to make Davidson alcohol-free. ... It’s to make consumption more a personal choice.”

Beyond increasing “personal choice,” the effects of a ban on court life are unclear. “The majority of campuses are BYOB,” says Cowan, “but students have not quit partying.” Bell questions whether alcohol consumption will even decrease on campus: “In the long run, it will remain the same.”

Off the record, however, students disagree. “There probably won’t be as much [alcohol],” said one fraternity leader. He is resigned to the results, whatever they may be. “I don’t think we have a choice. It sucks, but it’s something that’s going to happen.”

“As long as the houses provide some sort of alcohol, the social scene won’t change that much,” said one eating house leader. But she cautions against the BYOB plan that a keg ban would likely lead to: “I personally think BYOB will cause more problems than we have now.” She describes herself as “very pro-court,” and “would hate to see Davidson students leave on the weekend, which could be a repercussion of BYOB.”

Bell hopes that the PCC will be able to prevent that. “[PCC leadership] wants to protect a special part of Davidson,” she says, referring to the court. She hopes that any change to the alcohol policy will come from the students. To do that, “the PCC will prepare a plan for implementing BYOB or recommend their own plan to the CCRL,” she says, describing its actions as “more proactive than reactive.”

Despite the initial resistance to a ban and BYOB, Cowan hopes for a positive change in Court life. “Let’s get away from the mix-tape-and-keg party,” he says. He encourages “thought” in planning parties, citing the Phi Delt Airband and PiKA 70s-theme parties as particularly successful alternatives. “I would encourage members of the Davidson community to get involved with the social life because they are the ones ... who can shape [it],” he said.

Though the policy will not be seen for months, Cowan stated, “We’re trying to devise a policy,” so that if the ban is here when students return in the fall, “we’ll be ready.”

CRIME
An automobile owned by a Davidson College student was vandalized last Wednesday, February 21, while parked on Patterson Court. The car’s left windshield wiper was ripped off the car, causing $35 worth of damage.

SPRING BREAK!
BAHAMAS CRUISE $279! 7 Days & 15 Meals! It's better in the Bahamas!
CANCUN $429! 7 Nights! Air, Hotel, & Parties!
JAMAICA $459! 7 Nights! Air, Hotel, & Parties!
PANAMA CITY $119! 7 Nights! Room with Kitchen Near the Bars!
FLORIDA FROM $159! *Cocoa Beach *Key West *Daytona!
1-800-678-6386
http://www.springbreaktravel.com