THE DAVIDSONIAN

_NEWS

MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 1996 — 5

Libertas will provide a new forum for campus voices

By Mary Clare Jalonick
Guest Writer

“The vision of Libertas,” says senior Mandy Curtis, “is to bridge the gap between Hobart Park, Davidson’s literary magazine, and The Davidsonian, Davidson’s newspaper.”

Curtis, along with senior Bobby Ramsay, served as Co-Executive Editor for The Davidsonian in 1995. As their term ends, the two share a mission to bring another publication to campus.

The small group of students who are spearheading the venture hope that Libertas will bring student contributions to print in a different way. Size restrictions in the Davidsonian and content restrictions in Hobart Park prevent many students from submitting material to either.

“We are not competing with The Davidsonian,” says Ramsay, “but hoping to complement it.”

“We are aiming for a different style, different approach, different stories, and a different effect.”

Libertas is proposed to have a magazine format, with no specific sections. Each issue will have a feature, which will be a longer article that discusses a campus issue.

Those organizing Libertas hope that the format can resemble that of the Davidson Journal.

Senior Meg Wolff is co-writing an article on sexism for the first issue. She will also be co-editing a news section.

“We want this news to be more like ‘Talk of the Town’ in the New Yorker ... short tidbits with a humorous effect.”

Sophomore Liz Sale, who will co-edit the magazine’s “Forum” section, says she hopes the magazine will foster “structured debate within the community.”

Sophomore Mike Scarbo, her co-editor, wants Libertas to “serve as a facilitator for more of a student voice on campus.”

The first issue of Libertas has been approved by the Media Board, who will review it and determine the future of the magazine.

Curtis points out that Washington and Lee, a school roughly the size of Davidson, has five different publications. Amherst, also a small liberal arts school, has 13 different publications.

“[Davidson is] really behind in access to writing and publishing,” she says, “It’s ridiculous that there are only three publications at Davidson, and that The Davidsonian is the only regular one.”

Curtis wants to dispel any rumors that she is beginning this as a replacement for Davidson’s weekly. “I haven’t worked for four years of my life for The Davidsonian to try and sabotage it.”

---

The Davidsonian is looking for an editorial cartoonist and a copy editor. If you have any talent, call John or Mary Clare at -2148.

---

Featuring...

Midwinters: Coming soon to a door near you...

Davidson College Union Board '96 Calendar

Friday, February 2nd
Friday Afternoon with D.O. Tae
Women's Film Festival: The Incredible True Stories of Two Girls in Love (8 p.m.) and Eat Drink Man Woman (10 p.m.) 900 room

Saturday, February 3rd
Taco Bar, 12-2 p.m. Outpost
Jumpin’ Java Cafe 2-6 p.m.
Comedian, Gerald Kelly and music with Gaston starting at 9 p.m. 900 room

Sunday, February 4th
Women’s Film Festival: Therese (7 p.m.) and Mi Vida Loca (9:30 p.m.) 900 room

---

CAMP CAROLINA

Box #919 Brevard, N.C., 28712

SUMMER JOBS!

Join our High-Adventure staff family for the summer of 1996!!
THE EXPERIENCE OF A LIFETIME!!!

We will be at your school on [date]
Call for an appointment with Cha-Cha, Rob, Din, Alfred, or Nath.
For more information call 1-800-551-9136

---

Jumpin’ Java Series ~ Saturday Night Live Series ~ Film Series ~ Solidarity Week ~ Women's Month Events ~ Davidson Outdoors Events ~ Spring Frolics ~ Guest Lectures ~ Artist Series ~ and more...

Day Ski Trip with Davidson Outdoors.
Women's Climbing Wall 7:30-9:30 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java 8-12 p.m.