RTS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1996

SPRINGING INTO FASHION
What’s in and out of style this upcoming Spring season
By ADRIENNE NIXON
Fashion Authority

Ah, spring is in the air! It’s time to start creating your spring wardrobe. Thinking of grabbing the nearest J.
Crew catalog? Don’t bother. Chances are, most department stores carry close to the same merchandise at much lower prices. There
are so many ways to look great for less. For instance, instead of running out and buying a ton of
new shorts before warm weather sets in, go into your closet, find some old pairs of pants, and make some
cute cut-offs. As I was casually leafing through a catalog, I saw a pair of frayed denim cut-offs for $28.
What an incredible waste of money! I am sure Daisy Duke didn’t pay that much for hers.

Keep in mind that these cut-offs don’t have to be denim. As a matter of fact, this idea will work
very well with those horribly loud, polyester, double-knit reversible slacks you found in the attic over the summer that are
too atrocious to be worn to even the tackiest of tacky parties. Besides, they usually come in the same bright
pastels that will be gracing runways and magazine covers all over the world this season.

I know, I know. You're asking, “What in the world would I wear with those?” Well, t-shirts or shorts, light
sweaters in either neutral shades (like black, white, and tan), or tastefully contrasting colors (like a sky blue shirt with
navy shorts) would be ideal. For you truly brave souls, there’s always the option of a ’70s print shirt containing
at least a hint of the color of your shorts. However, I must admit, this usually works best for women.
Guys should probably stick to blue denim shorts and a cotton t-shirt, but don’t worry, the shirts can be as
bright as you want them to be. Being male doesn’t lock you into plain white, boyish blue, or basic black.

As long as I’m on the subject of what works and what doesn’t, I think I'll pass on a few
general fashion tips that will help keep both ladies and gentlemen on top of things. Mind you, I’m not a
fashion queen or anything, but when you’re the daughter of a good southern belle, there are a few helpful hints
you’re sort of forced to grow up with!

Let’s start with the men. I must say that most Davidson guys do a really good job dressing themselves (even
though, as busy as we all are, it’s probably the last thing on their minds). Therefore, I have only two
things to talk about. The first being the effective use of patterns and prints. One interesting print among solids can
bring an outfit to life. On the other hand, more than one at a time can result in an appearance
on the Ricki Lake Show! My other comment? Please, no knee socks (especially black ones) with shorts. It’s just not
sexy.

As for the stylish ladies...of Davidson (no sarcasm intended), I also have only a couple of comments to make. When
dressing, it’s always important to accentuate the positive. If you’ve got a great pair of legs, feel free to show
them off with a smart little mini. However, don’t get carried away. If you can’t retrieve the pencil you just
dropped without being picked up on charges of indecent exposure, chances are your skirt is just a wee bit on
the short side. For daywear, the appropriate length for a mini should be no more than three to four inches
above the knee. My other comment is more related to beauty than fashion. Not that I’ve seen it happen here
or anything, but please, no blue eyeshadow unless your name is Barbie, you drive a pink Corvette, and you have
a plastic boyfriend named Ken! Above all, both guys and gals should wear what they feel confident and comfortable in.
After all, fashion should be fun!

Ghanan gals cook a path to our hearts
Naa Addo and Comfort Bawah share African cooking experience
By Laura LEIBFRIED
Staff Writer

Nearly a dozen students gathered in the Alumni House last Tuesday evening for an introduction to African cuisine. Our hosts,
Naa Addo and Comfort Bawah, two endearing students from Ghana, prepared a dish called “Jollof Rice,” a spicy stew made
with chicken and rice in a tomato base. With her left hand resting casually on her hip, Comfort sautéed onions,
tomato paste, and pureed tomato juice in a pan of oil, while Naa explained the cooking customs and lifestyles of
her people.

In Ghana, Jollof Rice is an elaborate dish, served at Christmas time and other special occasions. After the meal is
cooked, it is garnished with a colorful display of carrots, green beans, and boiled eggs. Various beverages are consumed during
the meal, from champagne to Irish Creme, but never soft drinks or milk. Soft drinks are saved for more informal
occasions, and milk is served with desserts such as oranges and pineapples, baked plantains, and crème caramel.

Traditionally, the dish is prepared with an entire chicken: beak, feet, liver and all! The chicken is deep-fried in a
vat of oil, and the leftover lard from the pan is added to the stew for flavor. Adhering to America’s
dietary standards, the girls browned the chicken wings in half the oil they would normally use, for a lighter, healthier
meal. In addition, for the benefit of our milder, more conservative taste buds, the girls omitted many of the hot-hot
seasonings of their homeland, like fresh red bell peppers. Instead, they added garlic, bay leaves, and a light sprinkling of
peppercorns. “Trust me, we want you to eat — and enjoy!” Naa explained, laughing.

So far, the girls have not found a food in the States comparable in spice and flavor to their own
cooking, although Thai food is a close second. At long last, the meal was complete. A delicious aroma saturated the
air. Smiling proudly, Naa and Comfort escorted the belly-growling bunch to the dining room. Within minutes, murmurs of praise resounded
between mouthfuls of piping hot stew. The perfect end to an exciting, entertaining, and educational cooking class — the food!
