SPORTS MONDAY, APRIL 22, 1996 By MICHAEL KRUSE & WILL BRADSHAW Assistant Sports Editor & Sports Editor

Although the women’s track team finished last at the Southern Conference championships this weekend in Johnson City, Tenn., the team
scored the most points (27) at a conference meet in school history. A sense of optimism prevailed afterwards.

“Everyone did really well. People were getting PR’s (personal records). I’m really looking forward to next year when we can
do even better,” said freshman Jamilah Sawyer, whose time of 15.20 in the 100-meter hurdles earned her a third-place finish
and all-conference honors. “Good things are going to happen next year.”

If this weekend’s results will ultimately serve as an indicator, Sawyer’s optimism is well-grounded. Danielle Mall, who captured the league
discus title as a freshman last spring, fell three inches short of defending her crown, taking second with a toss
of 141’6”. Venessa Sims set a new Davidson standard by clearing 5’7” in the high jump, which earned her a
third-place finish and all-conference recognition.

“I was ecstatic. I cleared 5’7” on my third attempt so I wasn’t sure I would get it. All my
teammates jumped up, and everyone was quite supportive,” Sims said. “It made a lot of difference having more numbers on
the team all year, not just in this meet.”

The 4x100 relay team (Sims, Sawyer, Laura Burkholder, and Roxie Formey) also claimed third (51.52), grabbing an all-conference spot. The
4x400 relay team (Burkholder, Sawyer, Sims, and Suzy Burr) didn’t reach all-conference, but did set a Davidson record of 4:13.8
on their way to 5th.

“Since all point-getters are returning we hope to improve on this, and maybe not finish last,” Coach Beth Puckett said
after falling seven points short of Marshall.

The rain did make conditions difficult, delaying the meet at times and creating dangerous situations. Sawyer mentioned some of the
problems the athletes had in the 100 hurdles.

“It was a really bad race. One of the girls from App. St. fell and rolled into the leading girl’s
lane. Two WCU girls got injured, and it wasn’t a pretty race, but I’m happy that I stuck through it,
and got third place,” she said.

By WILL BRADSHAW Sports Editor

While the youthful men’s track team took their lumps in the Southern Conference Championships this past weekend in Johnson City,
Tenn., the promising program caught a glimpse of its bright future.

“The team has come a long way,” said Dan Dearing, who placed fourth in javelin. “We only lose two seniors
next year, and the guys coming back will form a strong core. We are starting to get established as a
program. We don’t want to be the team that people step on anymore.”

And the Wildcats are indeed improving. Dearing’s finish in the javelin put the squad on the scoreboard, a feat they
were unable to accomplish this winter at the indoor championships.

“I was a little worried at first because my first throw (in javelin) is usually my best, but it was
horrible. On my fifth throw I broke my personal record by seven feet,” Dearing said.

“I was really disappointed by (400) hurdles (in which he was disqualified for a trail leg violation) because I would
have been the first guy in recent Davidson history to place in two events,” he continued, “But I’m excited about
next year. I have a very good shot at placing high, if not winning both events.”

In addition to Dearing, other athletes logged top six finishes. Tim O’Keefe ran a personal best 9:57 in the 3000-meter
steeplechase to finish eighth. Josh Cookson captured ninth with a 15:40 in the 5000, while both the 4x100 (John Leslie,
Steve Hsieh, Karim Lawrence, and Carlos Bowen) and 4x400 (Leslie, Dearing, Hsieh, Lawrence) relay teams grabbed seventh.

“We were the youngest team out there and, considering our inexperience, I thought we did pretty well,” said Lawrence, who
ran with a strained hamstring.

“I wish we had done better overall, but there were some solid performances,” added coach Gary Andrew. “This is a
young team, and we are going to be improving and getting more competitive every year.”

Josh Cookson echoed Andrew’s optimism, noting that everybody improved steadily throughout the season. “In the future, we'd like to score
more points, and we’ve got to get everybody to keep improving,” said Cookson. “For myself, I’ve got to start running
with the best in the conference, but we all showed we can compete.”

Tennis places fifth in conference By TYLER EPP Staff Writer

The men’s tennis team rounded out their season this weekend in Greenville, S.C. with a fifth-place finish at the Southern
Conference Tournament. The Wildcats were led by sophomore Jon Pastel, their number one singles player, who won his first ever
conference championship.

Pastel, the Southern Conference Player of the Year, finished his undefeated conference campaign by blowing through the competition to capture
Davidson’s first #1 singles champion in over twenty years. Pastel dropped only nine games on the way to his championship
battle with Juan DeAngulo, his arch-rival from ETSU.

“I always enjoy playing Juan,” Pastel said. “We have aWay of bringing out the best in each other, making this
final one of the most exciting matches of my year.”

“He drubbed DeAngelo 6-0, Josh Glazer 5-7; 6-1. Jon Pastel plays for the Southern Conference singles crown. “Pastel is so
dependable,” assistant coach Bryce Plott said. “This is the first of many championships to come at #1 singles.” Indeed, Pastel’s
league dominance in 1995-96 has vaulted Davidson tennis into the limelight.

“Next year we can’t use the excuse that we are young and inexperienced anymore,” sophomore Ted Kaplan said. “We were
contenders this year and should be one of the favorites next year.”

See Tennis on page 14.

Golf team grabs fifth
They claim their best finish since 1974
By CLAYTON SCHLOSS
Staff Writer

It’s late April. The grass is green and the flowers are blooming. The warm weather lightens our spirits. It is
this time of year when golfers make their annual trip to golf’s mecca, The Masters at Augusta (GA) National Golf
Club. Hidden in the lush forests surrounding the quaint little town of Augusta lies an unparalleled golf course—6,925 yards of
perfection. The best golfers in the world are awe-stricken, acting like little kids on their first trip to Disneyland. Augusta
is breathtakingly beautiful, yet deceptively dangerous. Those who ultimately survive the potentially nightmarish maze are able to look past the
stunning distractions of the azaleas, dogwoods, and magnolia trees.

Wildcat golfers participated in their own Masters on Apr. 15 and 16 in the Southern Conference Championships, held this year
at Stoney Creek Golf Club outside Greensboro. Davidson skillfully skirted Stoney Creek’s traps, tying for fifth place, its best finish
since 1974. The playing conditions made the already challenging course even more difficult and often frustrating. Rain on Monday slowed
the fairways and strong Tuesday winds wreaked havoc. The combination of the inclement weather and extremely fast and undulating greens
caused unusually high scores.

Andy McDaniel, who tied for 12th place, seemed to be the least affected by the conditions, as his impressive 80-78-75
(17 over par) led the Wildcats. “I improved each round, and I came back from my mistakes,” said McDaniel. “I
was really proud of the way everyone played.” Jason Lina (79-77-80, +20) and Jason Carlock (76-80-80, +20) tied for 16th
place. “We played really well and moved up to fifth place from ninth last year,” said Lina. “Hopefully we will
move up even further next year.” David Alexander (83-83-85, +35) and Dan Tedrick (93-78-83, +38) finished 43rd and 46th, respectively.
Nationally ranked East Tenn. St. ran away with the team title, winning by a 24-stroke margin.

“I was very pleased with our finish. No one shined that far above the others, but we had solid team
play,” said coach Joe Mark. “Our guys hung in there and succeeded in moving up in the standings.” All five
of the Wildcats’ top golfers return next year.

Women take third in rain-soaked weekend
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Assistant Sports Editor

The women’s tennis team combined youth with experience to place a solid third in the Southern Conference tournament this weekend,
held at Davidson’s Covington Courts. Claire Cheatwood, at #6 singles, and co-captain Ashley Maner, playing in the third slot, both
starred. Cheatwood, just a freshman, surprised the field by capturing the sixth-seed championship, topping her Georgia Southern opponent easily, 6-3,
6-0, in the finals. “I was real nervous before the match, so it was a great feeling to overcome my
nerves like that,” said Cheatwood. “I was real excited.”

Maner also reached her final, falling to GSU’s Rita Wilms, 6-1, 6-1. All of Sunday’s matchups except the finals were
called early on in anticipation of rainy conditions. Ultimately, the weather cleared, but the decision stood, sending the six singles
and three doubles championship matches indoors to Knobloch Tennis Center. Therefore, first-seed Dana Casner and second-seed Amber Bradford, both of
whom would have played for fifth place on Sunday, and fourth-seed Clara Marks and fifth-seed Lynn Shore, both of whom
would have vied for third, were forced to the sideline.

Davidson’s top doubles tandem of Casner and Bradford lost in their semifinals on Saturday to the tourney’s eventual winner, while
the second duo, Cheatwood and Marks, would have battled for fifth place. The third Wildcat doubles team, Maner and Jane
Stubbs, barely fell in their semifinal bid, 3-6, 7-6, 7-6. “We all wanted to play it out,” said Casner, “but
we had to make a decision early because some of the schools were far away. There was nothing we could
do.”

“The whole notion was to get all the kids out there playing, but there was no way to anticipate that
(the threat of rain) breaking,” said head coach Caroline Price. “Based on all the information we had, it was the
right choice.” Added assistant coach Barbara Grooms, “It was kind of disappointing, but the decision had to be made. It
was a great tournament for everyone.” The team standings through Saturday’s action were deemed final, giving Georgia Southern the team
title. With only Stubbs graduating this spring, much of the team’s core will return next year for another run at
the conference title. Said Price, “With our young team, I can only see good things in the future.”
