THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1996

REAK SHO

Laura Leibreid and Nathan Sutherland perform. Josh Glazer

Fangs from page 10

film I have not liked. Dusk reveals Rodriguez as a director who is obviously maturing. Certain stylistic elements he uses
are close to genius, such as the almost subliminal intersplicing of a bloody room with Seth Gecko’s shocked expression at
its discovery. The best shot, however, has to be the film’s final one. I won’t ruin it for you, but
let’s just say that it goes a long way in explaining what happened during the last half of the film.

Finally, what of the critics that seem to despise this film? They say that Dusk is nihilistic, a disturbing piece
of filmmaking that has no redemptive value whatsoever. My response? Lighten up. The film does not take itself seriously (it
would probably be impossible for any film that has a character named Sex Machine to take itself seriously). If you
go to Dusk expecting to see Gandhi, or even Pulp Fiction, you’ll be disappointed. But if you go into the
theater for a simple evening’s diversion you’ll leave quite pleased. (Grade: B+)

Subscribe to The Davidsonian $17.50 for a semester. Call Chloe -2148.

Poet from page 10

and responsibility, particularly among the black community. He called for maturity and accountability from African Americans and for greater compassion
toward the homeless and needy. These demands were grounded in personal experience; Cherry has worked his way up in the
world of academia, and once spent three days living among the homeless.

One of the focal points of Cherry’s work is the contrast between the state of African Americans in the 70s,
when he attended college, and the 90s. Much has changed, he indicated, but too much has stayed the same. His
poetry is informed by a sense of the poverty and injustice which blacks have dealt with for hundreds of years
in America. Yet, refreshingly, his anger is tempered by his faith and his gentle trust in the weapons of love
and cooperation.

Other poems appealed to universal human emotions like love, lust, pride, and loneliness. Cherry’s sense of humor shone in one
poem concerning his two favorite authors, William Shakespeare and Charles Schultz—creator of the “Peanuts” comic strip.

The evening with Cherry set a standard for the quality of presentations in recognition of Black History Month. Continuing through
the rest of February, the Cultural Arts Series will include a number of other presentations such as a dinner theater,
a cooking workshop, an art exhibition, films, and lectures.

HOROSCOPE

By Dorcas AND MADGE Consulting Astrologists

Aquarius (Jan 20-Feb 18)—Rock on Aquarians. The planetary alignment of Jupiter and Mars predicts that you will have smooth relations
with your peers. Stay away from small animals; they can bring only misfortune.

Pisces (Feb 19-Mar 20)—Swim clear of the Registrar’s office, Pisces. They are out to get you, and they will not
toss you back. Better fortune canbe gained through meditation in Hobart Park.

Aries (Mar 21 - Apr 19) — Hooked on Phonics works for you, Aries. You will get a much-deserved “A”
on that tough English paper. Watch for a man in a black bowler hat. With him comes pone fung ‘schwa.

Taurus (Apr 20 - May 20) — Don’t lock horns with roommates this week. You will need his or her
assistance soon. Start stockpiling foodstuffs. We recommend canned goods. Lucky Day: Wednesday.

Gemini (May 21 - June 20) — Life is beautiful, Gemini. You will be lucky in love—especially with others born
under the sign of Gemini. Look for your beloved in the Laundry parking lot Thursday at 5:30 pm.

Cancer (June 21 - July 22) — Crab, come out of your shell! It is your week to shine. Your
charming appearance, excellent style, witty banter, and sexual prowess gain many admirers this week.

Leo (July 23 - Aug 22) — The stars foretell a social epiphany. Use your newfound knowledge this weekend. Please.
Love Day: Tuesday, Place: Commons (the other side).

Virgo (Aug 23 - Sep 22) — Don’t answer any personal ads this week, no matter how tempting they may
seem. Better safe than sorry. Your destiny will be influenced by your choice of shoes. NO REEBOK “HI-TOPS.”

Libra (Sep 23 - Oct 22) — The scales will tip in your favor. Beware of a nomad bearing a
gift. Choose your own adventure in this situation. Trust your instincts and you will profit.

Scorpio (Oct 23 - Nov 21) — Carefree existence is the name of the game for you, Scorpion. Don’t worry
about your work, it will take care of itself. Explore the Internet. Love Day: Friday, Place: Language Lab.

Sagittarius (Nov 22 - Dec 21) — Look out for pop quizzes this week. Just because you think that those
sneaky professors are out to get you doesn’t mean they aren’t. However, don’t be discouraged by this bleak prognosis—a secret
admirer is planning to reveal his or her identity.

Capricorn (Dec 22 - Jan 19) — Although your love life is grim, don’t abandon hope, a special surprise will
arrive in a plain brown wrapper to remedy the situation. Silver Lining: Your grades are on the upswing.

For entertainment purposes only. HOTLINE 1-900-896-8591.

Write for Arts & Living. Call James at -2148

SUMMER JOBS
Camp Rim Rock for Girls
Work this summer in the beautiful mountains of West Virginia. Enjoy working with children as a general counselor or sharing
your talents as an instructor in:
Swimming, Drama, Riding, Canoeing, Dance, Soccer, Tennis, Volleyball, Arts & Crafts, Environmental Education, Archery

Look for us at your college's Camp Fair on 2/7/96. For more information write to:
James L. Matheson, Box 69 Yellow Spring, WV 26865
1-800-662-4650 or FAX 1-304-856-3201 or email rimrock@crosslink.net

WINTERPLACE SKI RESORT OFFERS DISCOUNTED PRICES FOR DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENTS, FACULTY, AND STAFF.
Winterplace saves you over 30% off regular prices! Lift Tickets are as low as $16.95. Call Today:
Information 800-607-7669
Snow Phone: 800-258-3127
Only Two Minutes Off I-77 at Exit 281
Located 14 miles south of Beckley, WY.
