4

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1996

Sophomore Lee Burnett becomes SGA Chancellor

By Randy HARTWELL
Associate News Editor

At last week’s SGA meeting, Lee Burnett ’99 assumed the post of chancellor, filling the void left by Adam Hickey, who transferred to Harvard this fall. Tomorrow’s meeting will be Burnett’s first in his new role.

Burnett eagerly anticipates the work ahead of him. “I’m looking forward to it,” he says. “It will be a way to broaden my experience doing something for the school, outside the academic realm.”

Until recently, Burnett wasn’t aware of the job’s availability. “It was a real surprise to me the position was even open,” he says.

“I hadn’t had the opportunity to get involved in this capacity, so I expressed interest in it, and after that, it was out of my hands.”

Burnett’s fate mostly rested in the hands of SGA president Warren Buford, who called for Burnett’s nomination last week. “We consider ourselves real fortunate to have someone like Lee come in at such an important period,” Buford says.

“We're real impressed by what he has to offer and his enthusiasm for the position and his interest in serving Davidson students.”

News is lots of fun.

Have a tip?
Call Kirsten or Randy — 2148
They will be there.

or email us at Davidsonian@Davidson.edu

New Norris scholarship offers full tuition to scholar-athletes

By Kirsten RECKNAGEL
News Editor

Next spring, Davidson will award an incoming freshman athlete the school’s first-ever endowed comprehensive cost athletic scholarship, the Amos Norris Scholarship.

Robert Norris, Class of ‘72, designed and created the scholarship, named in honor of his father.

As a student at Davidson in the early 1970s, Norris amassed an impressive list of accomplishments. He was voted the Wildcats’ Most Valuable Football Player, elected president of FIJI, a recipient of the King Academic Award, and a member of Phi Beta Kappa, ODK National Leadership Honor Society, and Omicron Delta Epsilon National Economics Honor Society.

His scholarship will be awarded “to an outstanding first-year student-athlete with integrity, a strong work ethic, and excellent leadership qualities,” according to a publication put out by the Office of Admission and Financial Aid.

The Davidson Journal says that “In designing the scholarship, Norris specified that the recipient must possess the potential to become an all-Southern Conference player and must be among the best academically at Davidson.”

Norris is one of only four comprehensive scholarships

The brand new Norris Scholarship is one of only four annually awarded merit scholarships which cover tuition, student fees, and room and board. It is also the only comprehensive cost athletic scholarship Davidson offers.

Gardener Roller Ligo, Davidson’s Merit Scholarship Coordinator, says that strictly merit-based scholarships make up only a small portion of scholarships awarded to Davidson students. “Davidson continues to pursue its commitment to meet need-based aid,” she says. “We’re very different” from other colleges and universities in that “we’ve worked hard to stay out of the merit-based spiral.”

All Davidson scholarships, she says, “are designed as access opportunities” for students already interested in attending the school. The scholarships “are tools designed for you to use if you want to be here.”

Ligo explains that by the Davidson administration’s way of thinking, an array of strictly merit-based awards “doesn’t bring students to Davidson who want to be here.”

Davidson’s new Norris Scholarship joins the Belk and Baker Scholarships as Davidson’s largest merit-based awards, all of which cover comprehensive fees.

The Norris Scholarship “gives us the opportunity to recognize a student who is both an athlete and academically accomplished,” says Ligo. She adds, “Athletic scholarships are not given completely blind to academic ability.”

Two Baker, one Belk, and one Norris Scholarship are awarded each year to members of the incoming class.

In addition, Davidson offers two Smith Scholarships which cover the cost of full tuition, and two William Holt Terry Scholarships, each valued at $20,000.

The Baker, Belk, Norris, Smith, and Terry Scholarships are classified as Special Competition Scholarships, meaning that the administration automatically considers all admitted students for these awards. — Kirsten Recknagel

Friday, September 20...
National Recording Artists

Everything

Located one mile past UNCC on Highway 49 North

10008 University City Blvd.

Coming to The Sound Factory

549-0029

$1.00 off with Davidson ID