4. __ THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1996

Question of the week: What is that steam?

It’s not seeping hazardous sewage, the result of a massive build-up of geologic pressure, or the frustrated spirits of students
past. Actually, the mysterious mist which rises from the brick-paved ground behind Chambers is nothing more than the result of
“rainwater running down on hot steam pipes,” says Associate Director of Operations and Maintenance Phillip Cashion. Rain reaches the area’s
main pipes, which are used to heat Chambers, the Union, and other surrounding buildings, through any of Richardson Plaza’s many
manholes. - Kirsten Recknagel

Students work Habitat over the summer

By RANDY HARTWELL
Associate News Editor

Soon, Danny, Ethelene, Danny Jr., Joey, and Christopher Jetton will be able to call the Wildcat House home. With only
$5,000 left to raise of the $40,000 goal, and finishing touches remaining such as drywall application, painting, and landscaping, completion
of the first Davidson College chapter of Habitat for Humanity house and the Jetton’s home is nearly completed.

Such a reality would have been unimaginable for Ethelene Jetton two years ago. Jetton once remarked to a friend how
nice it would be to live in a new house, but that she and her husband could never afford it.
Her friend told her to pray for one, and soon after, the Davidson Habitat Chapter called. The Jettons currently live
in Huntersville, but come to the site at 537 West Side Terrace frequently to put in some of the 300
“sweat-equity” hours Habitat requires of the families for whom it constructs homes. “[They] are out there every weekend,” says Meredith
Strong, who is president of Davidson’s Habitat for Humanity Chapter. Much work had been com-

Davidson boasts the coldest place in N.C.

By JEFFREY COKER
Science Staff Writer

Many freshmen ask, “How cold does it get here... 25, 20, 15 degrees?” Actually, they are off by about 480
degrees Fahrenheit. Don’t go buying knit gloves and polypropylene underwear just yet, though. It only gets this cold in one
room in the basement of the Dana science building appropriately labeled “The Coldest Place In N.C.”

Lasers are being used in the physics department to create temperatures within one-thousandth of a degree of absolute zero, one
million times colder than room temperature. “The great thing about it is how expensive it would have been had we
bought all the equipment. We made most of it ourselves,” says junior Mike Lee who, with seniors Andy Borleske and
Clay Lenhart, has been involved in the project. John Cowan is currently working with the laser for his senior thesis.
“It would be a great place to store beer,” says physics major Ryan Conatser. Hardly, since only a few atoms
can be cooled at one time. “I prefer to call it the coldest ‘stuff’ in N.C.,” suggests Dr. Robert Cline,
who heads the atomic physics lab.

Though impractical for beer storage, the laser-induced frigid temperatures create a perfect place to study the atom. A circle of
six lasers fire photons toward a central point of cesium. The cesium atoms are struck on all sides by the
photons, thus holding them still to be studied. “It’s much like stopping a bowling ball by hitting it with a
million ping pong balls,” says Cline who continues, “This project is great because students have been involved in every step
in the process. It is easyTo get students involved because it’s so easy to explain and understand.” The next time
a Northern friend calls and complains about the cold, Davidson students can respond, “It’s gotten a whole lot colder here.”
Completed on the one-story, three-bedroom, two-bathroom house when school finished last year, but in June, “they got it watertight so
they could leave it” intact during the summer months, says Saralyn J. Damanti, who handles the chapter’s publicity. Now that
volunteers are back on campus, the remaining jobs, sheetrock and wallpaper hanging, door and cabinet installation, and painting, can be
completed. Though the goal of any Habitat for Humanity Chapter is clearly the construction of homes it builds for needy
families, Strong is more specific when it comes to the College chapter. “It has been my vision to build a
house fully built by the Davidson College community,” she says. Strong sees “the goal of the Davidson Habitat house is
to promote unity between students, staff, and faculty.” To that end, Strong has tried to ensure that no single residence
hall or athletic team comes to the weekly construction days on Thursday from 1 to 5 and Saturdays from 8
to 5. That way, the site always has a diverse group of volunteers. With the interruption of summer vacation and
the arrival of less-aware freshmen, Strong does think that interest has slightly declined from the height it reached last year,
but “it’s going to take people going out and meeting the Jettons to get momentum going.” In the next few
weeks, tables will be set up in Chambers to recruit volunteers. Anyone interested, especially faculty and staff, should sign up
then. Write for news. —2148

The Sound Factory
The best in live entertainment and dance.
(brought to you by one of the guys from Amos’)

Wednesday night:
The Breakfast Club
$1.25 Coors Lite
$3 cover before 10:30 with college ID or with weenie roast ticket

Upcoming shows:
September 14 - The Breakfast Club
September 20 - Everything
September 21 - Rave party with Adam
September 27 - Bus Stop
September 28 - My Life with Thrill Kill Kult

One mile past UNCC on Highway 49 North

Flashback night/Best of the 70's and 80's happened while you were gone...
10008 University City Blvd.
549-0029

Thursday night:
Ladies' night
No cover for ladies before 10:30
$1.25 Miller Lite
All shots $3.00
$3 cover over 21
$4 cover under 21 with college ID

Friday night:
$1.25 Bud Lite
All shots $3.00
$3 cover over 21
$4 cover under 21

Saturday night:
Atlanta's number one party band: Curiosity Shoppe
$1.25 Rolling Rock
$3 cover before 10:30 with college ID

The Sports Section Bar and Grill
Highway 49 North
1 mile north of UNCC's main entrance in the former Gus' 49er Restaurant

Just because you're a college student doesn't mean you don't have tastebuds.

Sundays:
NFL Sunday -- 5 different NFL games at once
$1.25 all domestic beers
15 cent wings
25 cent oysters
25 cent peel-and-eat shrimp
Open at 12 noon

Mondays:
Monday night football
$3.75 pitchers domestic beer
$9.00 pitchers margaritas
15 cent wings
25 cent oysters
25 cent peel-and-eat shrimp

Tuesday:
Mexican madness
$1.25 Coronas

Wednesday:
$1.25 Miller Lite

Thursday:
$1.25 Bud Lite

Friday:
$1.25 Rolling Rock

Saturday:
College football -- 5 different college games
Open at 12 noon
