ALENDA

LU

U BI

ORTA

LIBERTAS

VOLUME LXXXVII

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1996

Students react to

potential keg ban

Students speculate about repercussions

By Adam Hickey
Staff Writer

“All that it’s going to do is create more dispersion,” said one freshman pledge about a keg ban at Davidson.
“It’s just going to move the problem [of alcohol consumption] to different areas.”

Such response comes on the heels of a Self-Study Office report which recommends Davidson expand the ban on kegs from
the Residence halls to encompass all of the college property, fraternities and eating houses included.

While no ban is in effect now, most everyone from the Dean’s Office to the Residence Life Office to Patterson
Court Council expects one to be in place soon.

Though not wanting to make official predictions, Dean of Students Tom Shandley “doesn’t expect that it won’t pass. I don’t
expect that if it happens it will happen before next fall.”

The Council on Campus and Religious Life, chaired by Shandley, would make a recommendation for such an alcohol policy change
to the President, who will choose whether or not to pass it on to the Trustees for implementation.

Though one student called it “a cover-up for gradually eradicating the Greek system,” most administrators and students directly involved with
the recommendation see other motives.

“I think the general motive is liability and a return to following the guidelines set by national fraternities,” said John
Cowan, PCC President and Phi Delta Theta brother.

Currently, the national fraternity chapters forbid the presence of kegs and the purchase of alcohol.

See Reaction on page 5

“SGA approves” presidential search committee

By Kirsten Recknagel
Assistant News Editor

Among many qualified applicants, four Davidson students were recently chosen to participate in a unique opportunity to help shape the
future of Davidson College.

The group will be “working with faculty and trustees to interview nominees for [Davidson College] president,” says Lucy Sherman, Freshman
Class President and member of the SGA committee which selected the students from among approximately 23 applicants.

The four students nominated by the SGA committee and approved by the entire SGA include John Bell ‘99, Carrie Blackburn
‘97, Liz Sale ‘98, and David Wick ‘97. SGA President Warren Buford will serve as the group’s fifth member.

Although the group’s role is currently “very ambiguous,”

See Prez search on page 4

NUMBER 20

OUT WITH A BANG

Brandon “Ozone” Williams led Davidson, tallying 20 of his 26 total points in the decisive second half including this thunderous
dunk, as the Wildcats (22-3, 13-0) moved one step away from an undefeated record in the Southern Conference. The triumph
marked the last appearance in Belk Arena for seniors Chris Alpert, Quinn Harwood, Jeff Anderson, Mark McGuire, and Williams. The
team plays tonight at Furman in the regular season finale before heading to Greensboro for this weekend’s conference tournament. See
story page 14.

Josh Glazer

Self-study recommends more minority professors

By Jonathan Sipling
Staff Writer

Many colleges are cutting back on promises of affirmative action. Davidson’s Self Study, however, is recommending that the college continue
on its current path of recruiting minorities.

Citing the low number of African-American faculty and salaried administrators at Davidson, the recently released 1995-96 Self-Study chided Davidson for
not aggressively pursuing qualified black candidates for employment.

This academic year, four African-American professors are teaching at Davidson, and only one has tenure. As of November 1995, eight
African-Americans held salaried administrative posts.

According to the Focus Group on Student Experience, which authored the section of the Self Study dealing with this issue,
“The dearth of black role models can only perpetuate the idea that Davidson is a ‘white’ campus.”

Recognizing that graduate programs in certain academic disciplines, such as physics, math, and economics, turn out a disproportionately low percentage
of African-American PhDs, the focus group suggested that the college take aggressive action to identify and hire available African-Americans in
these areas.

In other areas, including the humanities and social sciences, there are larger numbers of African American PhDs, whom the committee
says the College simply is not competing intensely enough to attract.

They say Davidson also should be more active in its pursuit of African-American professionals, well represented in our geographic area,
for administrative positions.

The Self-Study also included specific suggestions to help increase the numbers of African-American faculty and administrators on campus.

The study says, “All academic and administrative departments should be continually reminded of

See Minorities on page 2

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1

Davidson, NC 28036

Plastic surgeon sells ideal image on the heels of Eating Disorders Awareness Week.

NEWS 4

Keep it clean!

Polly sounds off about classroom abuse.

OPINIONS 7

It’s not like in Flatliners.

Dr. Moody relates near death experiences.

ARTS & LIVING 10

So long, seniors

Basketball’s last home win of season.

SPORTS 14
