2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS BRIEFS

Ian Hummel joins SGA Senate

Sophomore Ian Hummel was sworn in as Phi Delta Theta fraternity Senator by SGA President Warren Buford last Tuesday. Hummel replaces junior Brian Brown as Phi Delta Theta SGA representative.

Students chosen for membership on Advisory Council on Campus and Religious Life

The SGA approved the nomination of six students to the Advisory Council on Campus and Religious Life at the SGA Senate meeting last Tuesday. The following students will serve on the CCRL:

Sophomores:

Will Bradshaw

Lee Burnett

Brent Gilbert

Lucy Sherman

Chad Wellmon

Junior:

Barry Newhouse

An SGA selection committee nominated six students after meeting with all interested applicants. The selection committee was chaired by Sophomore Class President Ann Harriot Fisher.

SGA passes resolution in favor of improving track facilities

According to the SGA minutes from last Tuesday's SGA meeting, the Senate passed a resolution regarding improvements to Davidson College's running track. The resolution, introduced by SGA Vice President Clair Freeman, says in part, “the SGA strongly supports the athletic department's efforts to begin planning a new track facility,” and that the SGA Senate “encourage[s] improvement to the surface of the walking/jogging track at Richardson Field....” In addition, the resolution also provides for a student advisory committee to provide student input in the new facility's planning. The committee consists of eight students, two from each class. The following students are members of the student advisory committee:

Seniors:

Lara Burkholder

Eugene Jung

Juniors:

Kate Pittenger

Tripp Franklin

Sophomores:

Kelly Kiefer

Stan Baker

Freshmen:

Schaap Freeman

Brent Ferrell

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1996

NEWS

MASTER OF SCIENCE IN ACCOUNTANCY

Cameron School of Business

+ Earn a graduate degree that will prepare you for a career in accounting.

* Class sizes are small and you can complete the program in ten to thirteen months.

* Classes begin:

May 21, 1997 for Accounting Undergraduates

August 9, 1997 for all other majors

In focus ... student voices

How do you feel about the proposal to eliminate the Humanities program in favor of mandatory freshman writing seminars?

I'm definitely for the Humanities program. I think it's a wonderful way to read literature that I would normally not be inclined to read. The idea of the Humanities program inspires many incoming freshmen to participate in it.
Clay Cofer
Sophomore

I think that the writing seminars would be a really good idea. Writing skills are something that I've had to spend a lot of time on in Humanities. I'd like to be able to balance spending a lot of time reading and working on my writing, but it's hard to find enough time to do that.
Amanda Covington
Sophomore

I think Humanities is valuable, more so for people who are interested in math and science disciplines. It allows them to touch on subjects that they may not be deeply interested in without being completely engrossed by the topic. It would be nice if writing seminars would be available to any student who wishes to improve their writing skills.
Daniel Cantey
Sophomore

I definitely don't think they should change the Humes program at all. It helped me so much. It was a lot of work, but it was worthwhile. My writing was somewhat helped by the Humes, but I don't think they should change it.
Maggie Slocum
Senior

Tomorrow's leaders need to be able to recognize broad patterns of social change. They also need to be able to think quickly on their feet. Humanities teaches that.
Jeffrey Cromartie
Senior

I think it would be a disastrous mistake. I think [Humanities] was the single most important class I've ever taken. [The Humanities program's attention to writing skills] might be the only possible criticism of the course; it tended to vary with the instructor. However, [attention to writing skills] is a potential weakness that could be addressed in a number of ways.
Dean Cromartie
Class of ’69

Presidential search continues but gradually narrows

Students on the Search Committee — Seniors Warren Buford, Carrie Blackburn, David Wick, Junior Liz Sale and Sophomore John Bell — missed two days of classes last week in order to conduct interviews with candidates. Bell feels that students are properly represented in the search. “I have been very happy with the makeup of the committee and the way the meetings have been conducted. The students have been given a role and a vote— we aren’t just window dressing. Trustees, faculty, and administrators have been open and honest. They have sought after student concerns and input throughout the search.”

“I feel that the committee is making sure that all candidates will be responsive to students’ needs, and I am confident that once our final decision is made that all students will be happy with our choice,” says Blackburn.

Don’t forget to order your ‘96-‘97 yearbooks. Price is $10.00

Place your order:
Monday - Friday 2-5 at the Union Ticket Window

or

Fridays in the Union from 10-1