OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1996

“No nation can rise to the height of glory unless your women are side by side with you.” These inspirational
words were spoken by Quaid-e-Azam, founder and liberator of Pakistan, on March 10, 1944. Contrary to Western feminism and certain
pundits on campus, this Western ideal is a Quaid-e-Azam reality for Pakistanis. After reading the analysis of Ms. Heller and
Ms. Richardson, I have come to the conclusion that “Westernism” and Islam don’t mix, and quite frankly are complete polarities.
Accept it and move on.

Moreover, I am disgusted that The Davidsonian has become an arena for “Pakistan bashing” over these past few weeks and
continues to attempt to refute facts and firsthand information. Let’s rename it, "The Oppressor: Pakistan.” The real issue of the
persecution of women has been trampled on, and Pakistan and Islam have been placed in its shoes. Interestingly enough, this
is where the ignorance lies and grows, not in Fahd Gul or myself.

In Islam, a man cannot handcuff a woman and take her to jail. This is against the teachings of the
Quran and Sunna of the Prophet (pbuh). Heller believes that men have access to females detained in cells. Islamic Law
prohibits such actions; and thus, women constables are assigned for that duty alone. Civic regulations require that policewomen be present
in station houses when women are being questioned and detained (Pakistani Penal Code). In addition, women and men are SEPARATED.
I suppose this may be a rather difficult word to interpret, but if you have any doubts, look it up.
Yes, women and men’s facilities are SEPARATED. In effect, they are not together at any one time. SEPARATED. Hence, it
is physically impossible to talk, touch, harass, question, or even rape a woman in detainment, without any dire consequences.

A jail, or better known as a thana, is filled with a throng of people waiting to be seen. Getting
a chance to meet the Head SP official becomes an arduous task, and Heller claims that women are raped under
these circumstances. Let me give you an analogous example: it would be like raping a woman at the local DMV.

Although Richardson claims that Heller’s main argument was to address the global oppression of women, she sure went out of
her way to come up with some fictional tales about women being dragged in the city streets of Pakistan naked,
with their noses cut off, and she even introduced the ever-popular “two-finger test.” What a global treatise on the oppression
of women!

Richardson also states that giving up a seat in a bus or taxi for a woman is not an act
of respect, but a manifestation of the “androcentric notion of man’s strength and woman’s weakness.” In effect, she is telling
the male population of Davidson not to hold open a door for a young woman, because that manifests the notion
of man’s androcentric nature and weakness of women. Hence, pulling the chair for your date displays her weakness and paying
the bill exhibits your masculine superiority.

Heller states, "Perhaps Fahd and Saad have not been made aware of what really happens to women in Pakistan.” Ironically,
Fahd and Saad, who have lived there for a combined thirty-five years, do not yet know the situation of women
in jails. Even more so, since their grandfather was on the Supreme Court of Pakistan and he himself wrote the
Hadood Ordinances, which attempted to make the penal Code of Pakistan more Islamic and at the same time regulate the
jails. And still, they are in the closet? Quite strange?

In a country, supposedly, where women are repressed and persecuted, Benazir Bhutto began the placement of a globally funded program
to train and insert 33,000 female health care workers in rural areas (US State Dept. of Pakistan). Strange. Isn’t this
the same country that persecutes women and then at the same time gives them 33,000 jobs? Strange?

Spotlight on Pakistan: Week Five

In conclusion, I am not advocating the idea that women are not repressed, but I am audaciously asserting that "what
and where” one reports repression should be thoroughly researched and backed up with facts. One of my cousins lives in
Indonesia; that does not give me or anyone else the authority to become an Indonesian expert and start publishing articles
on the status of the sewer systems in the metropolitan region of Jakarta. If people truly yearn to change the
present state of women in the world, then we should end this cultural-religious discussion against Pakistan and Islam and, consequently,
focus our attention on women’s rights.

I recommend Ms. Heller and Ms. Richardson visit Pakistani jails, via PIA, so that they can get a firsthand orientation
on how things really work, rather than relying on their imaginations and Western newspapers. Recently, the female warden of the
women’s cell at the Karachi Central Prison completely agreed with me and was abhorred at the articles she saw. I
believe the credibility of a female warden outweighs a fund-raiser for a self-interest group. Don’t you? Any future complaints should
be addressed to her, she will gladly respond.

In Sabine Heller’s story blasting Pakistan (published in The Davidsonian on September 23, 1996), she offers bogus evidence to support
her article, apparently trying to win favor for her proposed major in Women’s studies. Shewanted her voice to be heard
and, in order to do so, she produced erroneous information. This information tries to destroy the reputation of Pakistan and
has a few subliminal attacks against the Islamic religion. “75% of all the women in Pakistan’s jails are there because
they were rape victims. Once in custody, 72% of them are raped again by members of the police force,” Heller
states. It is understood that in magazines and newspapers the sources of an article are usually omitted. However, in this
case where such slanderous and unknown accusations are made, it is imperative to include the source where the information was
taken from. But I can imagine, Sabine, that it is hard to list your imagination as a source.

The article defending Heller’s story against the well-warranted attacks by Mr. Fahd Gul, Mr. Saad Gul, Mr. Yasar Ishaq, and
Mr. Vinod Thomas (two of them International Students from Pakistan) is almost as asinine as Ms. Heller’s enlightening piece of
work. Written by Kristen Richardson and entitled “On increasing awareness” (Davidsonian, October 21, 1996), she begins by saying “Defending Ms.
Heller is easy. Her point was simple: women face subjugation in most of the world; we should be mindful of
this oppression.” How can Richardson say that defending her is easy and then offer no evidence to defend her? She
then continues by including Pakistan as being in the Middle East and then explains, “I am doing so for my
own purposes in this article. I understand that all may not agree with this and I understand why.” This is
totally pointless and out of place in a newspaper article (sort of like Heller’s and Richardson’s articles being published in
The Davidsonian).

She then says that you don’t have to go to Pakistan to understand women’s struggle (both the Gul brothers have
spent over 17 years each living in Pakistan). Instead, she writes you can read the article written by Saad Gul,
saying that women were reserved seats in the front of the bus, causing men to step off, because there isn’t
enough room for the women. Well, Kristen, this is a far cry from the allegations made by Heller’s allegation saying
that women are almost always jailed for being raped, and then being raped in prisons. You call this "defending Ms.
Heller?” Richardson also puts the word respect in quotations: “The ‘respect’ given to women is as follows.” Does she not
call this chivalrous act of letting women sit down respect? No, to her it is in the same class as
being raped, “enforcing the androcentric notion of man’s strength and women’s weakness.” I guess I am as bad as a
rapist, Kristen, for I frequently offer my seat on public transportation buses to women (which are usually accepted).

She concludes inferring that the Gul brothers and Mr. Yasir Ishaq were only trying to promote their country which was
the reason for their writing, although they wrote completely separate articles, they seemed to be just correctly defending their country
against these slanders. Since it was their country which she spent the entire article blasting, I could see why. Secondly,
she said that she had spoken to her cousin who was active in the All Pakistani Women’s Association. This woman
had visited jails and had counseled rape victims; Heller also says that this woman had spoken to rape victims who
had been jailed after being raped. This sadly may be so, mistakes happen as the authors had stated. It is
possible that the police had made mistakes (like our police don’t make any mistakes here), but where does the previously
mentioned 75% female rape victims being jailed come in?

Thirdly, Heller says that although the jails are single-sexed, the possibility of guards raping female inmates isn’t precluded? Obviously not,
but would you mind telling us where you got the information that guards rape female rape victims and also the
information that it happens to 72% of the population? She concludes by saying that in order to get out of
a women’s prison you must go through a man’s prison. She follows by saying that “in reality, plenty of men
have access to these female prisoners.” Are you telling us that the male prisoners are free to roam in the
women’s prisons and are given the keys to “access” these female prisoners?

A few final comments. I, like all four other writers defending Pakistan, have spent some time in this growing country
and we have never heard, seen, or even imagined such atrocities. If they did exist, don’t you think that the
government of Pakistan, which is democratically controlled by a woman who was educated partly in the United States, would have
done something? The United States wouldn’t have sent troops or even had its hungry media even say anything about this?
