RTS & LIVING
MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 1996

Thrill in the Chill
Three Chill Chasers warm up winter doldrums
By CHAD FOGELMAN, MARY TOWLES ALLISON, & EMILY SMITH
Staff Writers

All about beer
Perhaps no other Chill Chaser left such a warm feeling in the minds and tummies of its participants as German
Professor Scott Denham’s “All About Beer.” When over a hundred of Davidson’s most discerning palates gained entry to the Union’s
900 Room with a reservation and six bucks, students and town residents were greeted with 24 cases of Old and
New World brews from Fosters to New Amsterdam amber and ale to Saranac to Guinness Stout. Brown bottles of German
wheat beer, green bottles of Czechoslovakia’s Pilsner Urquell, and clear Coronas appeared on tables as Denham noted piously, “The Puritans
were wrong about beer,” then proceeded to enlighten his most eager (if somewhat preoccupied) pupils on the finer points of
beer brewing.

Barley and water make malt, yeast is added (top-fermenting yeast for ales, bottom-fermenting for lagers) to convert the malt’s sugars
to alcohol, then hops are added, giving beer its bitter flavor. More facts: Belgium drinks more beer per capita than
any country in the world; we have Prohibition to blame for the demise of so many microbreweries; and no pathogens
can live in beer (it may make you ill, but it can’t kill you — at least, not directly). One
connoisseur mentioned malt liquor and Denham answered in a disparaging tone to which Mr. Billy Dee Williams (had he been
in attendance) I’m sure would’ve taken offense. Regardless of personal opinion, malt liquor is simply an ale with an increased
amount of barley malt, and therefore an increased amount of alcohol. As to the ice beer phenomenon, Denham emphasized its
economy of production, since a manufacturer can make a beer more alcoholic while using the same amount of barley by
freezing the liquid and removing some ice, and thus some water.

The New Albemarle ale seemed the consensus favorite, but the Royal Oak pale ale “rocked” according to junior Lucia Plosser.
All the drinkers were quite content to sip and gulp and swallow for the better part of two hours, and
I’ve little doubt the “All About Beer” extravaganza was but a prelude to an evening of imbibing Davidson’s domestic favorites.

Image Updating
I didn’t go to Image Updating with the intention of changing my image. Since I was little I’ve liked to
play with makeup and clothes. I was like the little girl in the Kleenex commercial who painted globs of clown-inspired
lipstick to her face and soon added her mother’s baby blue eye shadow to, not only her eyelids, but eyebrows
and nose as well. I would hope that since my kindergarten days I’ve improved my makeup application skills, but a
few tips now and then couldn’t hurt.

As it turned out, Image Updating was more than just a bunch of girls burying themselves in a caboodle of
various makeups and discussing whether their hair could look like Blair’s (from One Life To Live) without a stylist present
at every turn. Instead, we learned what not to wear to a job interview and how to choose our clothes
so that they complement our body shapes. We also...learned our seasonal shade, that is, the colors of clothing and makeup
that work best with our skin tones and hair colors (classified as Autumn, Summer, etc.). This session was not for
females only. Although no men showed up, we were shown how the color of the tie a man wears can
make or break his image. A little vanity never hurt anyone. If you look good, you feel good, which makes
others feel that you are confident in yourself and therefore capable of any task you wish to undertake. So this
lesson in image updating was both a break from my studies and a useful tool for the future.

Chili Cook Off

Friday night’s Chill Chaser festivity had just the right “spice” to liven up a chilly January evening. The 900 room
was packed as students, faculty, and community members eagerly tasted 24 entries at the “Chili Cook Off.” From “capital punishment”
to “dude ranch chili” participants had the opportunity to try some truly unique recipes. A bluegrass band supplied accompanying music.

See Chill on page 11

Halley’s Comet swings by Davidson

By Laura WOLFROM
Guest Writer

Every 76 years, Halley’s comet is visible in a clear, night sky as it passes by Earth on its orbit.
It’s come a few years early to Davidson. Halley’s Comet was performed in Love Auditorium on Monday, January 2 courtesy
of the Artists Series. John Amos gave a remarkable performance of his one-man show by delivering his lines with flair.
The audience responded with equal enthusiasm.

Two acts separated by a brief intermission divided John Amos’ monologue. Amos allowed his generation-spanning stories of his heritage and
lifetime to unfold gradually. He peppered his emotional, serious tales with amusing anecdotes that changed the audience’s response from awe-inspired
silence to raucous laughter. My favorite amusing story performed by Amos was about his granddaughter and her new jeans, while
my favorite serious story was about his son, a Marine, who was forced to shoot paratroopers during a battle at
Iwo Jima during World War II. Although these two stories had very different tones, the images that they created were
intensely vivid. Particularly moving was Amos’ description of a bullet-pelted sky raining blood.

Despite the intricately woven tales Amos’ character addressed to the comet as it flew by, the production was also unique
for its diverse lighting, sound effects, costumes, and multi-purpose props. For example, a star-lit sky shining on a black backdrop
set the mood as the comet streaked by. Moreover, some red lighting set the mood for the harrowing image of
a blood-red sky as described in the son’s letter from the war. Also, a white spotlight at center stage was
a prime focal point for the audience’s attention as Amos opened his soliloquy.

Amos got plenty of mileage out of his props. He used his wooden cane as a shovel, his blanket as
a shawl, and planted a tiny sapling as a symbol of life, growing and ever-changing. The production also used music,
radio, and television announcements to transport the audience through several eras of historical events. In all, Halley’s Comet was a
powerful one-man show that elicited a myriad of emotional responses from the audience due to its plot, lighting, sound effects,
and props.
