THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1996

WILDCAT ROUNDUP

The Wildcats entered spring break at 2-7, and players and coaches worried that this season’s high expectations were quickly wilting;
Davidson sandbagged their hopes by taking four of five over break, but they have gone on a new skid since
classes began, losing five in a row to fall to 8-13.

Before break began, the team pulled out a dramatic 7-6 victory against Wake Forest on Feb. 27. With two outs
in the bottom of the ninth inning, Luke Goodwin, a transfer from Wake Forest, singled home the winning run for
the Wildcats.

Davidson took two of three from the Citadel, winning 9-5 and 12-10, defeated UNC-Charlotte, 7-3, and swept a doubleheader against
Miami of Ohio, 9-8 and 6-5. The only blemish was a 9-1 loss to the Citadel. Dates with Wake Forest,
William and Mary, and Duquesne were rained out.

The Wildcats squeaked out a victory against the Richmond Spiders 7-6 on Mar. 11. The victory against Richmond extended Davidson's
winning streak to five, the Wildcats’ longest in three years.

The hot streak was broken Mar. 13 when Northern Illinois defeated Davidson 15-8. Richmond then took their revenge, beating the
Wildcats 10-4 the next day.

Davidson dropped three games this weekend to the East Tennessee State Buccaneers by scores of 6-5, 9-6, and 7-3.

“East Tennessee State is extremely strong offensively. We battled but couldn’t get the job done,” said Dick Cooke.

Davidson will look to end their cold spell against the Yale Bulldogs this Tuesday at Wildcat Park. The Wildcats also
face Wake Forest at home Wednesday.

—Dan Motz and Clayton Schloss

Wrestling

The Davidson Wrestling team had their best conference tournament finish since 1969, placing seven wrestlers and scoring 20 team points
- the most since the team's 32-point showing 17 years ago.

Freshman Christian Baker (134) outlasted his UTC opponent in the consolation finals and led the team with his third-place finish.

George Escaravage (142), Miller Carey (150), Jake Hamilton (167), Ben Wall (177), Bill Cameron (190), and Chip Stewart (HWT) placed
fourth in the tournament.

“I was extremely pleased with the determination our guys showed. They proved Davidson is not far from being a major
contender in the Southern Conference,” said coach Oddo.

With many wrestlers returning, and a good recruiting class on the way, the Wildcats hope to have a more balanced
and consistent lineup next season.

—John Roe

Lacrosse

The women’s lacrosse team fell to Hofstra University, 23-5, on Friday, but first-year head coach Mary Schwartz says that playing
established programs like Hofstra can help Davidson grow and improve.

“It lets us see how hard we have to work,” says Schwartz.

Sarah Hogan, Allison Rhoads, and midfielder Rebecca Maclean led the team to a 10-7 victory over North Boston University on
Mar. 8 at Eckerd College in Florida. Two days later, they fell to George Mason, 13-9, at Richardson Stadium.

“That game exemplified our improvement since last year,” says Maclean.

The first-year players have helped the team tremendously, coach Schwartz says, emphasizing Amanda Fleck’s defensive power and Linda Rothemund’s talent
at midfield.

Maclean sees the younger players as great assets to the program, now in its third year, but credits Schwartz as
well.

“She’s exactly what we needed. She’s dependable, energetic, and makes fitness a priority,” the junior midfielder says.

Schwartz is recruiting heavily for next season.

“We have twenty girls coming,” she says optimistically. “We’re going to take our lumps occasionally, but we’ll come out all
right. We'll play hard each game.”

—Carlo Reynolds

Kappa Alpha thanks faculty and students for supporting the Spring Karnival, March 23, noon to 5 p.m.

Davidson wrapped up a successful two weeks, in which they won four of five matches, by dominating the thirteenth-ranked Richmond
Spiders, 5-2, for their seventh victory overall.

“It was a big win for the kids,” coach Jeff Frank said, “We grew a lot as a team today.
We definitely turned the corner going into a tough conference schedule.”

Jon Pastel, Eric Bourn, Jeff Tonidandel, and Paul Wulfsburg all contributed singles victories. Wulfsburg clinched the squad’s big win, topping
Richmond’s Jason Kermode, 7-6 (7-4), 6-2.

“It was a big win for me, as well as the team,” said Wulfsburg.

Pastel upped his season singles mark to 10-2 with a win over Hans Paino. Pastel and Scott Briggs claimed the
doubles point with an 8-4 victory.

—Tyler Epp

Women’s Tennis

The Wildcats currently stand at 5-3, as they prepare for the bulk of a tough upcoming conference gauntlet.

Davidson opened the season with a 6-1 defeat over East Carolina on Feb. 25, but got swept by Old Dominion
on Mar. 2.

During spring break in Orange Lake, FL, Davidson posted victories over Temple, 6-3, and James Madison, 7-2, and fell to
Boston University, 5-2.

The Wildcats also swept their first conference match versus Appalachian State, 7-0, edged Wofford Thursday, 5-2, and fell to College
of Charleston, 7-1, Friday.

—Kirstyn Leuner
