2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS BRIEFS

Physical Plant helps clean up after Fran

Fourteen staff members of the Physical Plant have taken time out from their regular work schedules to volunteer for clean-up efforts in the wake of Hurricane Fran. The staff has been in and around the Wilmington area since last week, working with the United Way and the First Presbyterian Church there. Bob Collins, who is director of the Physical Plant, says staff members were given the service opportunity by President Kuykendall. “He thought it would be a good idea to extend an offer of help,” Collins says. The staff members put in long hours, working from 5 a.m. to sundown, and sometimes later. As of now, they volunteer seven days a week, but are expected back at Davidson soon because, as Collins says, “We're not overstaffed; we’re going to have to bring them home soon.” The staff works in shifts. Some who came home for a break Friday will be returning to Wilmington Monday, and those who wanted to volunteer but couldn’t be spared during the regular work week went for the weekend.

Hurricane Fran Relief Drive

Students who want to help out hurricane-hit communities but can’t go to Wilmington can do good right here at Davidson. A relief drive organized by Reach Out, the Dean of Students Office, College Relations, and Career Services starts today and ends on Friday, September 20 at noon. Non-perishable food items, particularly those with pop-top lids and items that do not require heating, like cans of tuna, are especially in demand. Bottled water, ready-to-use baby formula, cleaning supplies, toiletries, paper products, and pet food are also requested. Drop-off stations are located in Chambers, Vail Commons, Baker Sports Complex, and the Carolina Inn.

SGA creates ad-hoc committee on parking

In the pursuit of more information concerning this summer’s 33% increase in parking registration fees, the SGA has formed an ad hoc committee on parking, headed by junior Damon Colbert. Colbert’s committee is charged with discussing the situation with Robert Norfleet, Vice President for Business and Finance, as well as Ray Thrower, Director of Public Safety. Colbert spoke with Thrower last week and submitted a summary of this conversation to the SGA. Colbert has not yet spoken with Norfleet but says, “I’d definitely like to talk to him and try to get a more thorough explanation as to why the price of vehicle registration increased.”

NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1996

What are you going to do with the rest of your life, loser? Visit the Internship Fair on Wednesday, 12-3 in Chambers Gallery.

The Duchess Nail, Hair & Tanning Salon

Full service salon for women & men
892-7030
"Best Prices in Town"

Nails
manicures * pedicures in European spa pedicure chair
acrylic * gels * tips * fiberglass

Tanning
"Hottest Bulbs in Town"
$4.00 per session * $33.00 for 10 sessions
$43.00 for 15 sessions * $50.00 for 20 sessions

Treat yourself...you deserve it
Ask for Connie, Michelle, or Susan
RedKen Hair Products & more...

Located 1/2 mile south of Davidson College Campus
20700 N. Main St.

In focus ... NEW PROFESSORS

Martha Montello: Showing the real life benefits of literature

By ELIZABETH BLACKBURN
Staff Writer

“The best thing about Davidson is the opportunity to get to know the students outside as well as inside the classroom. I find that the students are very bright, sharp in discussion and really a lot of fun!” said Martha Montello of her first few weeks at Davidson.

Martha Montello is visiting Davidson for the semester, teaching classes in Narrative Ethics and Freshman Composition. She is a visiting professor from Harvard Medical School, where she will return in the spring. Davidson College is not new to Montello. She has visited Davidson a number of times over the past few years as a guest lecturer and as a result of these lectures, was invited by Rosie Tom, Director of Medical Humanities, to teach during the Fall semester. Montello began her career at Yale University,where she taught for two years, and has spent the last seven years at Harvard. Her area of research is Literature and Ethics with a concentration in American Literature. When asked about the best aspect of her career, Montello replied, “The thrill behind teaching literature in a medical school is showing the real-life benefits literature has towards making decisions and relating with others, especially in the way that doctors interact with patients.” In addition to teaching two classes, Montello is currently working on a book about Walker Percy, the late physician-novelist. In her few moments of spare time, she enjoys playing tennis and loves to read. Montello has two sons, one of whom is a senior at Duke University. Her other son, Paul Wulfsberg, is a sophomore at Davidson. “At a research school, such as Harvard, the emphasis is on scholarship, whereas at Davidson, the emphasis is on the student.”

Public safety: students asked for change
“We are very open-minded,” says Thrower
By Austin Rice-Stitt
Staff Writer

Although some students claim that changed parking regulations are to blame in an apparent outbreak of towings and ticketings on campus, the Davidson College Public Safety department says that the new set of rules were made this summer in response to student concerns and suggestions. Until recently, students whose cars were towed for illegal parking also received a parking ticket and fine. Now, due to student objection, tickets are no longer issued when a car is towed. “We’re very open-minded and have made lots of changes based on student information,” says Ray Thrower, Director of Public Safety and Police on campus, who adds that most of this year’s changes do benefit students. In the past, students have been allowed to park in specific faculty and employee spaces in certain lots. This year, students can park in any faculty or employee spot in any lot from 6:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m. each day and all weekend. The only exception is the laundry lot because the laundry remains open on Saturday. “We try to make changes the students have asked for,” says Thrower. “But,” he warns, “after five, we will tow your vehicle.”

Towings on the Davidson Campus today are much less frequent than they were several years ago. In the past, students were towed for a variety of infractions but the price of a ticket was only $10. Years ago, during one of his monthly meetings with the Student Government Association (SGA) Security Committee, Thrower agreed to decrease the towings, but said he would have to raise the ticket prices to their current level. Meetings between Thrower and the SGA still take place each month. Roughly ten student parking spots have been removed. Seven of these, just north of Johnston Gym, were eliminated to provide handicapped accessibility according to regulations of the American Disability Acts. A few spots were also removed in the lot west of Belk to enable fire equipment to reach the building. “We had to meet Federal and State Regulations,” says Thrower. The last major change involves the addition of a few visitor spots on the lower half of the campus, and the addition of the fire lane around Patterson Court. The added visitor spots resulted from requests and visitor complaints. The fire lane has always existed, but is now clearly marked. No other major changes have been made. The Campus Police Department urges everyone to read the Parking and Traffic Regulations brochure that is issued upon registering vehicles. “We don’t enjoy writing tickets. And we don’t enjoy towing cars,” says Thrower. “If everyone would just read the handbook, they’d be okay.”

Better Than Babysitting
Responsible mature student needed to house/dog sit for three Golden Retrievers. House on Lake Norman off of Brawley School Rd. Call 664-6007 after 6:00 or leave a message with name, number, and best time to call.