THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS | MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 1996

Individual efforts mark meet

Men’s and women’s swimming and diving teams fall to UNC-W and Georgia Southern in dual meets

By WILL BRADSHAW
Staff Writer

In a triple dual meet involving Georgia Southern, UNC-Wilmington, and Davidson on Saturday at Cannon Pool, the Davidson men’s swimming
and diving team fell just short of avenging a November 10 loss to Southern Conference foe Georgia Southern.

SWIMMING & DIVING

UNC-W dominated the meet for both the men and the women, but the outcome of the men’s contest between the
Wildcats and Georgia Southern was unclear until the final event. In the end, Georgia Southern held on for a 125-114
victory. They defeated the Davidson women 156-81.

“I’m very pleased with the team spirit, and there were a lot of strong individual performances that were a result
of a good fall and a good training trip we had in Florida [over Christmas break],” says Head Coach Rich
DeSelm. “We’ll continue to get better, and the next time we’ll win a close race. I’m extremely proud of what
our coaches, swimmers, divers, and managers are all doing.”

Season best times were turned in by Andrea Jarchow (50 and 100 yard freestyle). Unshaved lifetime best times were recorded
by Freddy Schnell (100 and 200 backstroke), and Churchill Hooff (200 and 500 freestyle). In addition, Allison Hobadotl (400 individual
medley and 200 backstroke), Caroline Platt (100 freestyle), Michael McCabe (50 and 100 freestyle), Bo Craig (100 and 200 backstroke),
and Churchill Hooff (400 IM) all had lifetime best times, and Kathleen Paffenroth shattered the school record in the 1650
freestyle by nearly a minute.

“I believe everyone performed well today, mainly due to the intense training we had on our Florida training trip,” Craig,
a junior, said. “It’s really nice to see everyone step up and perform to the best of their abilities.”

The men’s team was missing two swimmers: Corey Bean, a senior who was taking the GMAT, and Ed Winant, a
freshman who was out with a shoulder injury. Both Bean and Winant swim butterfly, leaving the Wildcats thin in that
event.

“With those two in [Bean and Winant], it would have been a sure victory,” Craig said. “Although we lost a
close one against a comparable team, it only motivates us more to beat them at Southern States.”

The men’s team is the defending Southern States champion, and their goal is to repeat, according to Jason Prince, a
freshman swimmer. The women’s team, according to Jarchow, is looking to place in the top three at Southern States, which
will be held at Cannon Pool on February 15, 16, and 17.

“The women are looking stronger individually than we have all season,” Jarchow said. “We had a lot of people quit
early on, but now the juniors [who had been abroad] are back, and they’ve added a lot to our team.
Our goal for Southern States is to place in the top three and all have personal bests.”

The team is back in action against Duke at home on Wednesday and at Emory on February 3.

“In a meet like this, the winning team will generally have more individual standouts, but at conference [Southern States] depth
is more important. They only beat us by 11; they won one more individual event and two relays.”Hooff said. “It
hurts to lose a meet. We wanted to win, and could have. Rich [DeSelm] made some decisions to go after
individual performances and not necessarily to win.”

Schoon from page 14

When hundreds of students stormed the field after the men’s soccer team won its tournament? Or when every warm-bodied student
here screamed and yelled for two hours at December’s basketball game against N.C. State? Or way back in 1992, when
our Wildcats somehow advanced to the soccer final four which we were hosting? I guarantee that you never saw a
campus so alive and so pumped up as you did that week. Somehow, I doubt that waxing the Catholics and
Williamses of the sports world every day would accomplish that.

Going back to basketball, it’s great that students are actually starting to make some noise at games. Now that we
have those annoying signs to wave when the other team shoots free throws, let’s find the loudest and most obnoxious
pep band in the state, pay ‘em what they want and tell ‘em to light up Belk Arena. Or, better
yet, let’s find enough students to put together a stable and respectable band for every home game.

On the national sports scene, the fact that the Pittsburgh Steelers fan support across the country probably increased by 10-fold
last weekend says a lot about the character of the Dallas Cowboys. Whatever happened to class? What happened to the
football player who, instead of high-stepping and ripping off his helmet after he makes a play to mug for the
cameras, simply trotted back to the bench and calmly took his pat on the butt from the coach and high-fives
from his teammates? Oh well. I guess dignity and respect always were overrated attributes.

Back here on campus, one last note before I just fade away. Let’s give a hand to Lee Sargent down
at Baker. The guy labors mostly behind the scenes to, first of all, bring to Davidson great sporting events such
as the high-profile national soccer teams and the conference soccer tournaments and, second, make sure that they run smoothly. He
also plays a huge role in ensuring that the normal athletic events here run as they should. Lee, keep up
the good work.

All in all, we had a pretty decent sports year here at the Big D — still the best college
in the world. I’ll expect to see all of you at the Southern Conference basketball tournament, which we will win
and at the NCAA tournament, when we surprise a top 25 team in the first round.

Rob Kosicki

Freshman Allison Hobgood strokes to a lifetime best in the 400 individual medley Saturday against UNC-W and Georgia Southern.

Attention Sophomores

Applications are now being distributed for the Edward Crosland Stuart Scholarship Program. Stuart Scholars receive grants of $10,000 for the
junior year, renewable for the senior year, plus funding for an internship during the summer between the junior and senior
years. Pick up your application from Ms. Brenda King in Chambers 111. Completed applications are due back in the office
no later than Monday, February 9, 1996.

SOUTH 807

A new restaurant featuring fireside dining in a circa 1859 house
259 South Broad Street
Mooresville, NC 663-1859
- Nightly features
- Pasta special for students every Wed. and Thurs. nights
