THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1996 15

Davidson Women’s Track runs strong in “Tin Can”
By Kirsten RECKNAGEL Assistant News Editor

In their second indoor meet of the season, 15 members of the Davidson Women’s Track Team ventured to UNC last Sunday to race in the “Tin Can”—UNC’s 160 meter indoor track. The competition between approximately 17 teams was not scored. According to Beth Pucket, Head Coach of Women’s Cross Country/Track and Field, the meet was one to see where they were in terms of performances and times. Davidson runners set new school performance records throughout the meet. By the time the track had cleared, several individuals had secured many new entries into Davidson’s Top 10 Performance Lists in events ranging from long jump, to the 55 meter sprint, to the 800 meter run.

Impressive performances were turned in by co-captain Lara Burkholder, a junior who just returned from a biology program of study in Beaufort, NC. Burkholder didn’t appear to be hindered by her lack of training first semester, and her performances in the long jump (5.06), 55 (7.98), and 200 (29.54) meter sprints, and second leg of the 4 x 400 meter relay were all among the 10 best in Davidson Women’s Track history. Jamilah Sawyer, a freshman, was a strong competitor in the 200 meter sprint (28.85) and the 55 meter high hurdles race (8.84). She also ran the first leg of the 4 x 400 meter relay and earned a position in the Davidson Top 10 Performance records in each of her events. Co-captain Marie Grisez, a senior, and freshman runner Rachel Gimple ran the last two legs of the 4 x 400 relay. In addition to the relay, Assistant Cross Country/Track Coach Bill Drake says that each ran a good race in the 800 meter run. Other top school performances were achieved by junior Venessa Sims in high jump (5’2”), freshman Roxy Formey in the 55 (7.98) and 200 (29.54) meter sprints, and freshman Suzy Burr in the 800 meter run (2:25.56). Despite an injury to her hip, Burr’s efforts in the 800 propelled her to a third place finish among competitors from Duke, UNC, and Appalachian St. Drake says that in the 800 meter run, Burr is currently the number two top performer of all time at Davidson.

Men’s Track makes history in Chapel Hill
By Daniel DEARING Staff Writer

Davidson men’s indoor track and field had one of its strongest showings in history at UNC-Chapel Hill Jan. 28, as the young Wildcats either challenged or broke numerous school records. John Leslie shattered the school long jump mark by more than a foot with a distance of 6.66 meters. The sprinters also ran exceptionally well. Steve Hsieh, who already holds the fifth fastest 300-meter time in Davidson history, cracked the top ten performer lists in the 55-meter (6.90) and the 200-meter (24.74). Leslie (24.67), Karim Lawrence (25.42), and Dan Dearing (24.99) also cracked the 200-meter top ten. Earlier this year, Dearing recorded the school’s third fastest 300-meter time in history. Ken Howard (2:08.83) and David Slenzak (2:13.53) both starred in the 800-meter, while the men’s 4x400 relay team, made up solely of freshmen, was disqualified for dropping the baton. The coaching staff was very pleased with the effort of the young team. Of the aforementioned athletes, four of six are freshmen. The team is hoping for a strong performance in three weeks at the Southern Indoor Championships.

Wildcats still streaking to top conference finish
By Michael Kruse Assistant Sports Editor

Davidson maintained its role as Southern Conference pacesetters this week, collecting wins over Western Carolina Saturday (98-85), VMI Wednesday (86-79), and Georgia Southern Monday (71-46). They have a season mark of 16-3, including a perfect 7-0 in league action. Thanks to blowouts at Appalachian St. and Marshall, Davidson received recent national attention.

Wild Fish from page 14
underneath, there is a good chance you will battle with a hefty brown or rainbow trout. At times of medium or high generation, the rivers will provide entirely new fishing situations. Now, wading is not an option, and many of the classic river fishing techniques must be thrown out. If you have access...to a boat, travel to the base of the dam and position yourself near the edge of current breaks. Many large fish hold in the calm water and dart into the faster water to grab helpless victims. In fact, if big fish are your fancy, there is no better place to tie into one than right behind the dam.

Respect from page 14

Bulls will win their fourth NBA championship in six years come June. Apparently, bookmakers took in nearly $71 million in legal bets on Super Bowl Sunday. Is it just me, or has the Super Bowl ceased to be an actual athletic event and instead become a grand occasion to watch commercials, inhale pizza, guzzle beer, and lose vast amounts of money? This realization might explain why these festivities practically symbolize an American holiday.

The Wildcats secured six votes in this week’s USA Today/CNN Coaches’ Poll and were ranked as high as 42 in the Sagarin computer ratings. Davidson also skyrocketed to fourth in the nation in scoring margin (19.6) and 12th in scoring output (86.4). But this busy week served as a bona fide test for Davidson. Western Carolina and VMI proved worthy opponents before ultimately stumbling late in the second half, as smart play coupled with superior free throw shooting enabled Davidson to prevail.

Small baitfish are sucked through the top of the dam and shot out at the bottom, so catfish, trout, and stripers lay at the bottom with mouths open for an easy meal. Stripers as large as thirty pounds are caught regularly, and catfish as big as Volkswagens have scared many a scuba diver to the surface. If you want to tangle with one of these catfish, hook a piece of cut bait to a stout rod and fish during maximum generation. Although some of the rivers will never be seen in their natural state again, we can still enjoy what they have to offer. Dams can provide year-round action for all types of anglers because of the many conditions and water levels. The many different conditions also provide the opportunity to catch a mixed bag of fish as well.

Finally, I leave you with food for thought. Davidson hoops bettered UNC-Charlotte earlier this year by 9 points. UNCC only lost by 2 to Memphis who only lost by 3 to the aforementioned Minutemen. Therefore, by way of a little quick math, Davidson is 4 points better than the top-ranked team in the country. Think about it. And believe.

Before a crowd of 1,940 Saturday in frigid Cullowhee, the Catamounts held a 32-25 advantage with 7:08 left in the first half and were down only four with 10 minutes remaining. But a 17-8 spurt in the final 6:24 and 82.4% free throw proficiency on the evening gave the Wildcats their seventh conference conquest in as many tries. Narcisse Ewodo had perhaps his finest all-around game at Davidson, recording career bests in points (21) and assists (6), while grabbing eight rebounds. Brandon Williams tallied 25 points and nine boards, both game highs. Quinn Harwood (10 points), Chris Alpert (14), and Ray Minlend (11) also reached double figures.

VMI gave Davidson its biggest conference scare thus far, holding a one-point lead with 4:51 left. But a Minlend jam ignited an 11-3 game-ending run, and the Wildcats escaped with the 7-point triumph over the Keydets. "Tonight showed that we can execute in tough situations. And that’s something we didn’t do well last year, so we’re proud that we did hang on and win this game," Williams said of the nailbiter. Williams (18), Alpert (16, 6 assists), Minlend (11), Harwood (9), Mark Donnelly (9), Ben Ebong (8), and Ewodo (7) all bolstered the balanced Wildcat scoring assault.

The Davidson-Georgia Southern matchup, pitting the conference’s best and worst squads, initially looked to be a stark mismatch. Yet heavily favored Davidson struggled during the first 20 minutes, and the Eagles held a 32-23 edge at intermission. But in the second half, the Wildcats overwhelmed the Eagles, 48-14. Said McKillop, “We had one half tonight. I think Georgia Southern had something to do with that. They outfought us, outworked us. Tonight was a wakeup call.”