THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1996

The endowment — how do we compare?

Davidson funds rank low in size, high in growth rate

By Brad D. Cause
Staff Writer

One of the main things that any college relies upon for funding is an endowment. Davidson, however, has one of
the smallest endowments for a college its size.

Out of ten other “peer” colleges that Davidson compares itself to, Davidson ranks near the bottom in actual size of
endowment.

Endowments arise from financial gifts to the college that are then invested in a wide variety of areas, including stocks
and bonds. Two-thirds of the Davidson Endowment is classified as restricted, which means that the initial investment must always remain
in the endowment and that any growth must be applied to certain areas at the college, such as basketball or
a music program.

The Davidson endowment provides for about 16% of each year’s operating budget, translating into a little over $7 million of
next year’s $45 million budget. Although this is a substantial amount of the budget, it lags behind other colleges its
size.

In comparison, more than two-thirds of next year’s budget will come from tuition and fees paid by students.

If the endowment was larger, it would be possible to lower tuition while still providing the same services.

Although the Davidson Endowment is smaller than other schools its size, it also has the second highest growth rate, behind
only Swarthmore College.

The Endowment is currently valued at $163 million partly due to an impressive 19.4% return on its investment last year.

Out of 460 public and private universities in the United States, Davidson ranks 133 in endowment size, which means that
71% of schools have less money in endowments than Davidson.

When the endowment is broken down on a per student basis, Davidson ranks 65th out of 308 private colleges and
universities, meaning that it ranks higher than 79% of institutions in the U.S.

Robert Norfleet, Vice President of Business and Finance says that “the figures are misleading when you compare [the endowment] with
our ‘peer’ group of institutions. We do rank behind them, but all in all we are in good shape.” He
added, “Of course, we always want to be better.”

The Davidson Endowment is divided into three principal areas. Two-thirds of the endowment is invested in equities, another 25% in
fixed income areas, and the remainder in real estate.

The investing is monitored three times a year by the Trustees and receives an internal evaluation every 90 days.

Norfleet explained, “The Trustees of the College have chosen to invest in a wide variety of areas, but they were
also careful to avoid areas that are volatile.”

He also says that last year “guidelines were put into place to avoid security derivative investments and ultimately to avoid
[problems].”

Norfleet added, “I wish that we would have had more money in the 1980s. Many other schools were able to
triple their endowments during that time, which we did also, but they were dealing with a substantially higher endowment to
begin with.”

He also says that the College “wants to make the most of the endowment in the years to come so
that tuition does not have to be raised.”

Images of injustice in Israel: Speaker Smith will take students to Middle East this summer

By Ann Hatfield
Staff Writer

Monday night Dean Rusk speaker Mary-Lou Smith shared her recent experiences in Israel. Smith explained that she had always been
interested in and devoted to peace issues, but that her recent trip “was a life-changing experience.”

June 5-19, she plans to lead a trip of Davidson, Duke and UNC students to Israel so they can share
her experiences.

She says, “I want to spread understanding about the conflict between Israel and Palestine and share the Palestinian side of
the issue.”

Smith began her discussion and slide show by asking the audience to describe their conceptions of Palestinians.

She then explained that her own initial conception was informed and shaped by her Judeo-Christian heritage.

During her trip, however, Smith was shocked by the injustices that Palestinians suffered and distressed by the effects of the
29-year occupation.

Smith believes that the September peace accord between Israeli and Palestinian factions provides a unique opportunity for compromise.

Smith’s last slide showed a plea borrowed from a Palestinian school: “Co-operation is better than conflict.”

She calls her trip a pilgrimage to the holy land and hopes that those involved “gain a deeper understanding of
the conflict with its social, religious, and economic implications ... I want students to play an active part in promoting
peace and understanding.”

The trip seeks to illuminate the views of both factions emphasizing “cultural sensitivity, conflict resolution, contemporary context of Christian mission,
and the rudiments of Islam and Judaism.”

Spots are still available for interested students, but they must notify chaplain Rob Spach -2420 or Bill Felty -2132 of
their interest before Spring Break.

RECYCLING

Reach Out Recycling Coordinators Tom Guthrie and Seth Clippard were among students who turned out for an early morning Recycling
Summit Wednesday. Students and Physical Plant workers discussed the future of recycling at Davidson.

Scott Burkhardt

Want to Be a Part of the Information Revolution?
Consider a Professional Career in ACCOUNTING

Learn more about this program by viewing the department's home page at http://funnelweb.utcc.utk.edu/acct/ or contact:

Dr. Richard L. Townsend
637 Stokely Management Center
University of Tennessee
Knoxville, TN 37996-0560

The University of Tennessee has designed a 15-month program leading to the Master of Accountancy for outstanding graduates of liberal
arts, engineering, business, and other disciplines. Master of Accountancy graduates have outstanding placement opportunities.
