THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1996

THE HOUSE THAT LOVE BUILT

Brainstorming, fundraising, and construction led to the celebration of the completion of the Jetton family’s Habitat for Humanity home last Sunday.

Bill Giduz

Hess and Ross churn out second text

By Ann Culp

Staff Writer

Sixteen years of class notes created the second textbook in three years by Davidson economics professors Peter Hess and Clark Ross. They say their latest book, entitled Economic Development: Theories, Evidence, and Policies, is a reversal of the current tendency toward diluting the content of textbooks.

“Unfortunately, there has been a trend in the last two or three decades to dumb down texts,” says Hess.

“But we have a very high opinion of students, and we think that they deserve a rigorous and analytical text. We believe it can reach that standard.

“We need to present the material in a concise, challenging fashion and students will be engaged by it,” says Hess.

The book offers an agenda for global development including greater cooperation among nations, demilitarization, increased attention to the environment, freer trade, and more effective foreign assistance.

Hess says, “The goal of studying economic development is enlightened policy—what to do and how to improve socioeconomic conditions. That’s the excitement of teaching economics.”

He and Ross describe the need for sustainable development in which present needs are met without compromising the ability to meet future needs.

Economic Development is currently being used in the course called Economic Development taught by Hess.

The earlier textbook, Principles of Economics: An Analytical Approach (West 1993) has been used in several classes, including Davidson’s Economics 101, since its publication.

Health Center hopes to Smoke Out students

By Andrew Preston
Staff Writer

Davidson will hold its first Great American Smoke Out on Thursday, November 21, as a step toward smoking awareness.

The smokeout will include the chance for students and faculty to measure their lung capacity and to trade old packs of cigarettes for bagels.

The event will be held from 9:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the Union and Chamber Lobby.

Sponsors include the American Cancer Society, Iredell Memorial Hospital, the Pre-Medical Society at Davidson College, and Davidson College Health Education.

Georgia Ringle, the coordinator of the event and Student Health Educator, says the Smoke Out is important because “many students start smoking in college due to the stress, especially at a school like Davidson, and aren’t able to quit later.”

Ringle adds that although the Smoke Out is only a one-day awareness event, the health office is available all year to help students who want to quit smoking.

The Great American Smoke Out was started twenty years ago by the American Cancer Society. It primarily attempts to spread awareness in high school age students, but also hopes to reduce smoking in college students.

The Smoke Out’s goal is to help lead smokers on the path to quitting, since, as the Society points out, “smoking is the most preventable cause of death in our society. Tobacco use is responsible for nearly one in five deaths in the United States.”

The Smoke Out doesn’t just concern smokers, though.

Smokeless tobacco and secondhand smoke are also major concerns.

According to a 1986 statement by the Surgeon General, smokeless tobacco “is not a safe substitute for smoking... it can cause cancer and nicotine addiction.”

Secondhand smoke also has serious consequences. According to the American Cancer Society, lung cancer from secondhand smoke kills 3,000 people every year.

Secondhand smoke contains essentially all the carcinogens and toxic agents inhaled by smokers.

SGA Rides Survey

The Staff and Students of the Davidson Transportation Task Force would like to solicit your opinions on possible transportation needs/solutions for Davidson students. Please complete the following questionnaire and return to Bill Felty, Task Force Co-chair, at Career Services by Wednesday, November 27, or just put it in the box at the Union desk. Thanks for your help!

Your status: 
Student 
Faculty Member 
Staff Member 

Do you have any transportation needs personally?
Yes 
No 

For what purpose(s) have you observed that a Davidson student needed transportation?
Class/Academic Requirement 
Social Opportunities 
Off-campus Appointments 
Health/Medical 
Airport/Travel 
Cultural Events 
Internship 
Other (explain) 

Way(s) in which you think these needs could best be met:
Regular shuttle to Cornelius 
Regular shuttle to Charlotte 
Pool of drivers available on call 
Vehicle available to reserve 
Available service to pick up intoxicated drivers 
Other (explain)