12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1996

Robert Taub Bill Giduz

"Do your roommate a big favor. Attend the Sleep Disorders Workshop in Homer Room at 7:30.

We Could All Use A Little More

Savvy

¢ Ultimate Hair Services
¢ Complete Nail Services
¢ Expert Skin Care & Waxing
¢ Assorted Retail Products

Savvy

C J ASALONE
Norman Crossing Shopping Center
Exit 28 off 77, Cornelius 895-0404

P607S143

Students learn from master pianist, Taub

By JENNIFER CARLSON
Guest Writer

Thursday evening, November 7, Robert Taub gave an electrifying performance of two Beethoven Sonatas, Opus 31, No. 2 in D Minor (Tempest) and Opus 106 in B-flat Major (Hammerklavier), to a capacity crowd in Hodson Hall. Friday, I, along with four other Davidson students, had the privilege of performing in the Master Class taught by this internationally-acclaimed pianist.

While waiting for Taub to commence the Sonata in D minor, I took some time to peruse the biographical information printed in the program. “Institute for Advanced Study’s Artist-in-Residence since 1994,” “recipient of the highest award for piano at the Juilliard School,” “performed with symphonies in San Francisco, Montreal, Hong Kong...,” the list goes on. Reading about his achievements made my heart skip a beat for two reasons.

First, I knew I was about to hear an incredible performance. Second, in the back of my mind I knew that in less than 24 hours, I would be publicly critiqued and coached by this virtuoso pianist. In short, I was rather intimidated. However, once Taub entered on stage, my initial nervousness resided. Taub, though an internationally-acclaimed leader, remains modest and personable. He enlightened the entire audience with a brief word about each sonata before attacking the ivories. (We all got a good laugh, for example, from his tale on the title “Hammerklavier,” which actually means no more than “Sonata for the Piano” and resulted from Beethoven’s misunderstanding of an Italian title.) Yet, once Robert Taub sat down at the Steinway Concert Grand Piano, the mood changed from that of light humor to pure amazement.

With his superb technique, the pianist highlighted every note, so that each finger produced a different dynamic quality. He got our blood pumping during the fast-tempoed Allegro and Scherzo movements of the Hammerklavier while holding us captive during the slower Largo movement. In all, the performance was indeed that of a virtuoso pianist, an incredible leader in his field. The Master Class further attested to Taub’s unpretentious attitude and technical superiority. Taub allowed each student to play his or her piece, making mental notes of passages that needed attention. Then he focused on a particular passage or measure, asking the student to repeat it following his personal advice on dynamics, meter, and tempo.

At no time was Taub condescending. Rather, he was encouraging, as he made various suggestions, for example, on finger patterns and rhythm. He also asked the students specific questions on their playing, reminding them of the importance of thoroughly knowing and understanding the elements of their pieces. By the end of the class, the students and public audience alike had a much better appreciation of the diligence required to become a master pianist like Taub. For me, it was truly an honor to be one of his students.

Taub is in the process of recording the complete Beethoven Sonata Cycle. Volumes One and Two are currently available on VOX classics. They can be purchased from the Friends of the Arts at Davidson, who deserve many warm thanks for bringing Taub to Davidson for the second year in a row. Keep your eyes open for all related Friends of the Arts events.

Filmmakers John Fuegi and Jo Francis will show "Red Ruth" and "The War Within" at 7:30 p.m. in Perkins Auditorium.