THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 1996 15

Women’s Basketball poised to set record wins

By Daniel Motz
Staff Writer

The Davidson women’s basketball team defeated the East Tennessee Bucs 75-70 on Saturday night; it was the third Southern Conference victory of the week for the Wildcats. The previous Saturday, Jan. 20, they edged UT-Chattanooga 58-57 and on Monday, Davidson beat the Eagles of Georgia Southern 77-66.

Women’s Basketball

The Wildcats now stand at 10-6, tying a season record for wins, 4-2 in the conference. Junior Carolyn Kirsch led the Wildcats last week with 39 points and 25 rebounds. Senior Kristen Ferrucci has recovered from a serious knee injury, contributing 31 points and 14 rebounds. First-year players Jessica Montrella and Jamie Brown continue to impress: Montrella had 35 points and 24 rebounds and Brown added 31 points, 15 rebounds, and 14 assists, including 16 points, 7 rebounds, and 4 assists against ETSU.

Against ETSU Saturday, Davidson took a six-point lead early, but neither team could compile a significant run, and the Wildcats led by four at the half, 41-37. The second half was much the same, with both defenses preventing significant scoring spurts. However, the Bucs clawed their way back, and with 5:45 left in the game, ETSU tied the game. With 2:19 left, Adrianna Wilson sunk two foul shots, and the Bucs took a 70-69 lead, but the Wildcat defense did not yield another point. Davidson forced the Bucs to take low-percentage, difficult shots down the stretch, and despite shooting 66% as a team from the line, Monica Winter gave Davidson some clutch free throws down the stretch.

The Everglades? Davidson Outdoors Canoeing over X-mas

By Matt Pitzer
Sports Editor

Davidson Outdoors continued a Christmas-break tradition this year with a pair of long trips to Florida. One trip, led by Jonathan Brooks and Lara Chavis, was a five-day canoeing trip to the Everglades, while the other, led by Claudia Lombard and Tom Robertson, was a similar-length sailing trip in the Tampa Bay area.

The Everglades trip was punctuated by the sight of dolphins swimming alongside canoes, a bald eagle, and other magnificent birds soaring overhead. The eight-person crew also experienced a pelican coming right up to a spot in the open water where the group spent the night. The group left the crowded, swampy-like portions of the Everglades that most people are familiar with and headed for open Gulf water. There, Brooks said, they spent some nights in chickees, which are basically flat platforms raised above the water.

The groups had no real problems on the trips, and the Everglades troops actually had little, if any, trouble with the weather, traditionally a problematic spot. “In general, in the Everglades, the weather changes so much, you have to be ready to improvise. The tides come in and out and the river flows in different directions. This is the first trip with no problems,” Brooks said. "The highlight of the trip is coming into the open water. It is just absolutely beautiful.”

Looking for someone to drive to Mooresville every afternoon, 2:30 - 3:15, 5 days a week. Call 896-8775.Elizabeth DuBose iced the game for the Wildcats, draining two from the line, giving the team the 75-70 win. Although Head Coach John Filar cites several reasons for the Wildcat success this season, he says the team’s intensity tops the list. “I’m just so impressed with the way our team has come in and played the difficult Southern Conference teams this year. The game tonight, for example, (the ETSU game) we could have lost this type of game last season. But this team has intensity. They have no fear,” he said. Filar said this was his most talented team ever, and if they improve on the defensive boards their potential is great. However, he is unwilling to look too far ahead, saying the Wildcats are taking this year one game at a time. The Wildcats play at Marshall on Monday, and they will return to Belk Arena on Saturday to play Furman at two.

Swimmers dunked
By Clayton Schloss
Staff Writer

The Davidson swimming team suffered a tough defeat to the Duke Blue Devils (139.5-97.5 for the men, and 158-68 for the women) last Wednesday in the Wildcats’ final home dual meet of the season. Despite the outcome, there were many bright spots for the Wildcats. Freshman Alison Hobgood broke the school record in the 200 meter backstroke with a time of 2:11:40, and freshman Kathleen Paffenroth set the school record in the 200 meter butterfly with a time of 2:09:96. During the previous meet, Paffenroth demolished the school record for the 1650 meter freestyle by 54 seconds and was named Athlete of the Week. Churchill Hooff, who won all three of his events, continued to swim well. The seniors, consisting of Corey Bean, Hooff, John Rogers, Mike Rogerson, Rion Smith, Katharine Welling, Meg Bentley, and assistant coach William Robert were honored before the meet for all their hard work over the past four years. Duke, however, has a strong program and they just outmanned the Wildcats.

“It was a tough loss... but it only inspires us to work harder as we draw towards the end of the year,” said junior Bo Craig, who could not suit up for the meet due to a shoulder injury. “We’re disappointed by the loss, but Duke brought out the best in us,” head coach Rich DeSelm said. “I am pleased with our spirit and enthusiasm, and I’m optimistic about the rest of the season.”

The Wildcats have a meet at Emory University on Feb. 3, and they close out the season with the Southern Conference Championships, which will be held at Davidson Feb. 15-17.

Rob Kosicki

$$$ 30.00 TODAY

You Don't Have To Do Back Flips To Earn Money

Donate LIFE SAVING PLASMA AND RECEIVE $30.00 TODAY AS A NEW DONOR. Donors Can Earn Up To $200.00 In Their 1st MONTH. Visit Our Safe, Modern Facility, Where INACTIVE Donors ARE REWARDED WITH “Big Buck Bonuses.”

M-TH: 6:30 am - 9:00 pm
FRI: 6:30 am - 8:00 pm
SAT: 7:30 am - 6:00 pm
SUN: 7:30 am - 4:30 pm

(704) 333 - 0335
1511 Central Avenue
Charlotte, NC 28205

alliance “people helping people”