THE DAVIDSONIAN | NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 1, 1996

Davidson’s little ecosystem will soon be safer for birds to drink from.
By Amy WHITMIRE
Staff Writer

Davidson pond, located just off I-77 at Griffin Street beside the entrance to the town, will be cleaned up and
improved by the town of Davidson. According to the March 20th issue of The Charlotte Observer, town commissioners have set
aside $25,000 for construction drawings, and the question facing Davidson Parks and Recreation now is how to improve the pond
area.

Many Davidson residents have complained about the pond, stating that they did not like the water primrose growing there and
that the area surrounding the pond did not have enough benches, grills, and other amenities for visitors to use. The
Charlotte Observer says Davidson Parks and Recreation plans to alter the pond area in phases, and a public meeting will
be held before each construction phase to obtain public opinions on the project.

“The first phase of improvements, which will cost about $200,000, will include draining, drying and dredging the pond and installing
walls to trap debris from tributaries and storm drains.”

Jennifer Schuetz, a senior Center major in environmental analysis, wrote her thesis on the pond and conducted a survey of
150 households in order to find out what Davidson residents would like to see happen to the pond. Her survey
results showed a socioeconomic and racial split in opinions. Most of the African-Americans surveyed preferred to see the pond converted
to a park area, while the opinions of Caucasian residents were split between maintaining the pond as a natural habitat
and utilizing the pond for a recreational area.

According to Schuetz, if Davidson Parks and Recreation deepens the pond, it will destroy the aquatic habitat for the primrose,
which grows in very shallow water. Schuetz does not recommend deepening the pond because the temporary displacement of the plants
and animals living in the pond would disrupt the pond’s function as a natural habitat. Schuetz says, “I suggest leaving
the aquatic habitat alone and adding recreational facilities on the land so more people can enjoy the pond. The pond
could be used as an educational resource to learn about water quality and the different plants and animals which live
there.”

Annual Duke Endowment funds go toward expanding computer network and Life Sciences building
By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
Assistant News Editor

Davidson College continues to benefit from one of the nation’s largest private foundations: The Duke Endowment. Recently, a 1995 grant
to Davidson, worth $850,881, was approved by The Endowment’s trustees. Broken down into nine spending categories, portions of the grant
have been designated to, most importantly:
- help fund the expansion of the Campus Computer Network, which will access the Internet and the campus system to
students in dorm rooms.
- the creation of a new Life Sciences Facility, which is intended to ease current overcrowding problems and provide for
the acquisition of more modern technological equipment.

Through need-based scholarships, the grant extends the financial aid available to students.
- the James B. Duke Scholarships and student internships. Portions of the grant will also be used for library acquisitions
as well as deferred maintenance.

Since The Endowment’s creation in 1924, it has given almost $49 million to Davidson College. Its assets are currently worth
over $1.5 billion. Davidson receives money from the endowment along with three other colleges in the Carolinas. President John Kuykendall
feels grateful for the annual funding: “Davidson’s relationship with The Duke Endowment continues to flourish and is essential to the
well-being of the institution.”

Minors from page 1 will be offered across the curriculum. Abernathy says that “basically what we’re asking faculty to pass
is an option for departments to have minors.” If the proposal is passed by the faculty, minors areexpected to be
instituted by “smaller departments that are more interest-oriented... hopefully, then minors will catch on [in other departments],” Abernathy says. The
Council on Academic Affairs will distribute green ribbons to be worn Monday and Tuesday in support of minors, and will
set up an information table in Chambers on Tuesday.

CAMPUS CRIME

3/18: Between 12/21/95 and 3/18/96 an unlocked bike was stolen from a bike rack in front of Belk Dorm.

3/20: An unlocked bike, valued at $500, was stolen from the bike rack in front of Sentelle Dorm.

3/23: A student allegedly became the victim of an incident of indecent exposure while in the lobby of Dana Science
Building on 3/22/96.

3/23: $200 worth of clothing was reportedly stolen from a UPS-delivered package while it was held behind the Union Desk
waiting to be claimed by a student. The theft occurred sometime between 1/5/96 and 3/23/96.

Stuffed animal worth $100 was taken from the front porch of a Flowe Apartment sometime between 3/7/96 and 3/18/96.

Jeffries to begin as new Assistant Dean of Students

By CATHERINE ANDERSON
News Editor

The search is over. After a year-long process of interviews, the new Assistant Dean of Students/Director of Minority Affairs, Ernest
Jeffries, will take on his new role on June 10. Jeffries is currently the Assistant to the Vice Chancellor for
Student Development and Director of Minority Student Affairs at Western Carolina University. He received a Bachelor of Music degree and
an M. Ed. degree in Student Personnel Services from the University of South Carolina.

The search began after former Assistant Dean of Students, John Eaves, left in September, bringing in the first round of
candidates for the open position in late November. The decision was made to continue the search after Christmas, and concluded
upon Jeffries’ visit in early February. All candidates met with random groups of students, faculty, and staff members.

“I think in terms of his commitment to students, it’s very clear that he knows it's a day and night
job, so he will live in Davidson. As a musician, he started a fledgling vocal group [at Western Carolina] and
turned it into a talented touring group. He’s worked really hard with the retention of African-American students as well,” says
Dean of Students Tom Shandley.

According to the job description, the Assistant Dean of Students “serves in the central office with the Vice President for
Student Life/Dean of Students. The Assistant Dean has general responsibilities for providing a variety of programs and services designed to
ensure educational success at Davidson for the student population as a whole and minority students in specific.”

Jeffries is looking forward to the transition. “At this point in time, I am having a hard time getting over
the shock of leaving [Western Carolina]. But I’m really excited about working at Davidson, with the faculty, staff, and especially
the students. When I came, I was thoroughly impressed. I’m really looking forward to coming.” His immediate goal is “to
get there and assess the programs that are already in place, see what changes need to be made, and make
the necessary adjustments.”

Elections were held today for Student Government Association Senators and Honor Council members. Rising sophomores, juniors, and seniors ran to
represent their classes in the SGA. House and Independent elections will be in the fall. The elected class senators will
serve for the year. Honor Council candidates are also running to represent each class. The unusually large amount of students
running — especially freshmen — make runoffs inevitable during the week.

Taking pictures is lots of fun. Do it for a reason. See more of campus than you ever dreamed of.
Call John or M.C. — 2148

CARIBOU COFFEE

LOOKING FOR A CHALLENGING, REWARDING, EXCITING CAREER WITH AN UP AND COMING COMPANY??

CARIBOU COFFEE IS LOOKING FOR HIGHLY ENERGETIC, HARD-WORKING INDIVIDUALS LIKE YOURSELF!

Stop by one of our Charlotte locations today to pick up an application or call: 1-800-BOU-HIRE

**Great Benefits!
**Management In Training positions!
**Full Time and Part Time positions!

LIFE IS SHORT....ENJOY WHAT YOU DO!
