Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS _ Sara Beth Hamlin

We need a new Union _ MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1996

I almost fell out of my chair this past week as I turned to the Opinions section of The Davidsonian
and found that Ainsley Natta, the “1 in 1618” student of the week, wanted to see an article written about
whether or not there is a need for a new Student Union building. I thought to myself, “Of course there’s
a need. How could anyone question it?” But then I realized that most students probably don’t think about the possibilities
for the new Student Union unless a particular experience has prompted it, or unless they have had the opportunity to
view the feasibility study (or structural possibilities) of the new Union. So if I may humbly share my experiences as
well as my dreams, I think, Ainsley, that you may be convinced.

Let me preface my ideas with a note of caution that the new Student Union will not be built any
time soon (i.e., probably not within the next 5 years or so), despite popular belief. The Trustees have made the
new Union the number one priority after the new Life Sciences building has been completed. Since we have not even
seen the groundwork for that building yet, and it will take a massive amount of fundraising to actually convert Johnson
Gym to a new Union, I’m not going to hold my breath.

So anyway, why do we need a new Student Union? Well, the issue is a multi-faceted one. It involves several
aspects of student life, including gender and race relations, campus programming needs, and the structural setup of the current building.

First, this campus needs a social outlet for members of the opposite sex to interact in a setting other than
Patterson Court. Not that there’s anything wrong with Patterson Court, but we need some place for males and females to
just hang out and chat without the presence of alcohol or the looming threat of a potential hook up. I
think that the new Student Union could provide such a setting, specifically because it will hopefully include more lounge and
“hanging out” space, like the current Cafe or TV lounge.

Second, race relations on this campus need the same opportunity for comfortable chatting and interaction on a neutral basis (i.e.,
not BSC or the fraternities).

Third, there are hundreds of quirks about the Union which make it an inopportune setup for a Student Union —
after all, it used to be a library! Some of the countless nooks and crannies in the building remain unseen
by a majority of the student body, which means that most students cannot take full advantage of their own Student
Union.

Fourth, did you know the building leaks?

Fifth, there is simply not enough space for all of the student offices. Some of them are now tucked away
in one of those nooks or crannies, and you'll be lucky if you find them within 15 minutes of searching.
Do you know where the PCC Office is? How about SGA?

Sixth, the building needs to be much more of an inviting and hospitable Student Union, intended to bring students together
in a comfortable and casual manner.

I could probably think of at least a dozen more reasons, but I think six is enough. I hope my
point is clear that a new Student Union is not only a good idea, it is an absolute necessity for
a school of Davidson’s caliber.

Peeples .. Rebekah

Professors go above and beyond

At Davidson we’re usually pretty good at picking out the things that we think need improvement. Unfortunately, I’m not sure
that we do such a great job at recognizing some of the aspects of Davidson that deserve appreciation. Therefore, I’d
like to take this chance to thank the many Davidson professors who have truly affected the lives of their students.

In addition to passing on a wealth of knowledge in the classroom, professors who fit this description in my mind
stand apart from the rest because of their actions and attitudes outside of the classroom. With this in mind, I’d
like...To list what I consider characteristics describing Davidson’s most outstanding faculty members:

1. Professors who ask “How you are doing?” and really mean it. Even better, professors who make you feel comfortable
enough to answer something other than “Fine.”

2. Professors who hope all their students will make A’s. My favorite classroom experiences have been those in which I
could tell without a doubt that the professor really wanted his or her students to do well.

3. Professors who learn names quickly and remember them even when the semester is over. I know this must be
a difficult achievement, but a special thank you to those who can do it!

4. Professors who appreciate that their students’ time is important too. We know that our teachers have busy schedules, personal
lives, and issues to deal with once they leave campus for the day. We understand that sometimes it takes a
while to grade our papers. Similarly, we like to use our time wisely — not doing busy work, spending Fall
Break studying for a test scheduled for the first day back, or running late because a professor held class ten
minutes over.

5. Professors who are so excited about what they are teaching that they impart their enthusiasm to their students. We
have some very gifted teachers at Davidson, and their classes are most interesting when we can tell how much they
love to be teaching.

6. Professors who participate and take pride in the life of the college community. I love to see professors at
athletic events, choir concerts, or student theater productions. The list could go on and on — students love to know
that their professors are interested in what they do outside of attending their classes.

7. Professors who really believe in office hours. I can think of few Davidson professors who do not excel in
this category. I once had a class with a professor who collected schedules from every student and arranged his office
hours so that everyone in the class could see him at least one time every day if they needed to.
I have to admit, even at Davidson I was floored by this! Everyone can’t (and probably doesn’t need to) go
that far, but I appreciate the conscious effort of the entire faculty to make office hours an available and helpful
resource for their students. Things like this make Davidson a special and wonderful place.

I know that professors and students expect a lot from one another at Davidson, and I may have listed an
impossible set of outstanding professor qualifications. My own experiences with faculty at Davidson, however, have been overwhelmingly positive. Many professors
try their best to do all of the above. We appreciate and thank those that take advantage of the special
opportunities at Davidson to explore the many teaching and learning activities that exist outside of the weekly classroom.

FACULTY VOICE

We have no Faculty Voice this week, but we hope that this column can continue to give Davidson students perspectives
from all sides of campus. If you are a faculty member interested in submitting to The Davidsonian, call Katie McKelvie
at -2148.

Name: Charlotte White
Year: Freshman
Major: Undeclared Psychology
Hometown: Salt Lake City, UT
Last movie seen and rating: 12 Monkeys. The whole time travel concept was really interesting.

What do you think about Davidson offering minors?
I think it’s really important because now it’s really difficult to get very involved in your major but hard to
get focused on another subject if you want to. What would you minor in? Probably Biology.

Last Tuesday, you were involved in a forum on gender relations at Davidson. How do you think Davidson can improve
gender relations on campus?
I would look for students to work on friendships outside of the Court and the classroom — on an informal
basis. The school should get involved in introducing co-ed dorms and more things to do in the Union, but not
on weeknights when everyone is so busy.

How much work did you get done with the weather so nice this weekend?
A lot actually — I had to do a lot of work.
