THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1996

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
JAMES BERRY

Arts & Living Editor
CARRIE BLACKBURN

Copy Editor
MARY CLARE JALONICK

Asst. Arts & Living Editor
MARY TOWLES ALLISON

Business Manager
KATHERINE HASH

Associate Editor
TERESA WHITE

News Editor
BRADSHAW

Assistant Business Manager
CAROLINE BYNUM

Assistant News Editors
CATHERINE ANDERSON
BONNER MEAD

Sports Editor
MICHAEL KRUSE

Assistant Sports Editor
BEN GRIFFIN

Advertising Managers
NARESH NAGELLA
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL

Photography Editor
JOSH GLAZER

Circulation Manager
CHLOE BROOKE

Opinions Editor
KATIE McKELVIE

Asst. Photography Editor
ROBBIE LEE

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

The religion question

Maybe 1996 is a year for conservatives as well as progressives. Maybe The United States of America is a land where private entities can make their own decisions based on the fact that capitalism governs us, and we, as consumers, can make our own choices about what we want in our investments. However, as students wanting to acquire the best education possible in a diverse world full of many different religions and beliefs, we hope that Davidson will prepare us to appreciate all points of view.

And as the all-powerful decision makers at Davidson, we hope that the trustees will keep that in mind. Last Friday the Board of Trustees voted to maintain ties with the Presbyterian Church. This will affect few students’ academic careers. In fact, it will probably help the average student, for the Presbyterian Church gives us funding to augment our academic careers here. But the trustees’ Ad Hoc Committee on Church Relations has only taken a baby step in the direction of seriously addressing religious issues at Davidson. This huge issue is not to be taken lightly.

In October, the SGA polled its members to see what the general feeling was regarding three separate religion issues. Members voted 18 to 12 that the president should remain Presbyterian. However, only two people voted “no” to each of the questions: “Should the requirement that trustees be active members of a church be removed?” and “Should the requirement that religion professors be required to be active members of a Christian church be removed?”

Students heatedly debate whether the president should be Presbyterian. The consensus is split down the middle. People on both sides can argue valid points until they are blue in the face, and still many students remain undecided. The president is, among other things, a figurehead, and if the school is to maintain ties with the Presbyterian Church then it is understandable why some members of the Davidson community would like to see him (or her) be a member of that church.

But the religious affiliation of trustees and religion professors? Trustees are supposed to represent the student body in all of their important decisions regarding the future of the school. Davidson actively recruits students of all different backgrounds, so why should our governing unit only embody one segment of our population? And, most unbelievable, professors teaching classes about Judaism or Buddhism are not even allowed by Davidson to be members of those religions? How hypocritical.

Not to say that the professors who teach these classes are not the most qualified candidates for their positions. Their Christianity does not impede their teaching, and our religion professors undoubtedly know more about non-Christian religions than most advocates of the religions themselves. But why does this not work both ways? The policy was most likely instituted to base the Davidson education on Christian values. But does this not seem outdated when a class satisfying the cultural diversity requirement (which all students must have) must relate to a non-Christian country or ideology?

The SGA, as a body that directly represents the student body, held the three-question poll in October in order to roughly vocalize student views on the issue. We hope that trustees will take this voice into account, for we, as adults, know what religion means to Davidson. The vote regarding the president shows that religion is in no way a flippant issue here. As the trustees prepare for their meeting April 19, we hope that they will seriously and thoughtfully consider all sides to this very complicated, very emotional, and very meaningful debate.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson.College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTERS

Keep your soldiers in order

To the editors,

One of the soldiers fell out of line last night. He looks pretty lonely all by himself in my backyard, all dressed up in his red plastic uniform, emblem of his inclusion in the Solo Multicolored Party Brigade. Every weekend, and often on weeknights as well, the MPB marches down Delburg Street, on its happy way to that evening’s mission. The next morning reveals their tragic end: soldiers blue, yellow, and red all in a line, expired during the march, never making it to the party, left behind without ceremony or burial.

I don’t know why this one lost soldier, tossed perhaps as a token funeral over the bushes into my yard, finally makes me write. After all, a single plastic beer cup is not as dangerous as the broken beer bottles at the edge of the yard where my children play, not as difficult to explain as the box of condoms fallen by the hedge of trees for my children to puzzle over, not as distasteful as the generals of the MPB who think the trees bordering Delburg a convenient restroom.

Perhaps it was the suggestion of forethought involved in what are essentially just acts of thoughtlessness. So I ask you to remember the next time you walk down Delburg (or anywhere else off campus, for that matter): children play in the yards that border those streets, they examine the detritus and wonder why you, their college-aged idols, don’t know enough or care enough not to throw trash — stuff around that their mother doesn’t explain to their six and three year old’s satisfaction.

Sincerely,
Jeanne Neumann O’Neill
Assistant Professor of Classics

Express yourself

To the editors:

Last week, I stepped into the shoes of the infamous El Jefe and took over as the Opinions Editor of The Davidsonian. I was (and still am) very excited to become a part of the paper’s staff after writing a number of Opinions articles this fall.

However, now that I am steeped in the duties of Opinions Editor, I see what a tough job Jeff had. It’s tough to put together a page each week when hardly anyone submits articles. I find the lack of Opinions pieces submitted each week rather amazing. I’m fairly certain that Davidson students have some vehement opinions on campus life and the world in general. Why don’t more students want to express their opinion? Could it be timidity? Fear of being branded a complete loser? Too much work to do something extra? What lame excuses.

Writing an article is just not a big deal no matter how you slice it. For the amount of overachievers on this campus you’d think that six or seven students a week would overcome such petty obstacles and write a short article. Yet, for me, it’s a struggle to find enough articles to fill two pages.

As for faculty, two weeks ago I slaved over a hot photocopy machine to make 208 copies of a letter requesting articles for the Opinions section. I even got a papercut stuffing 208 letters in your 208 mailboxes. As of today, three of you have responded.

Back to student participation. So far, the dozen or so students whom I have approached about writing an article have been very enthusiastic. Unfortunately, however, I only know so many people. I’m sure there are many of you who have at some point wanted to write an article but just haven’t gotten around to it. To all of those people, I urge you to submit an Opinions article. With your extra effort, the quality of the Opinions section will improve greatly. Most importantly, however, you’ll make my job easier.

Sincerely,
Katie McKelvie, ’96
Opinions Editor