THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 1, 1996 - 5

CLASS OF 2000

Admissions accepts the “best class ever” one more time

By JONATHAN SIPLING
Staff Writer

As the class of 1999 winds down its freshman year, early returns are in on the potential members of Davidson’s
Class of 2000. Despite a drop in application rate from last year, this pool of acceptees is packed with talent.
To date, 1035 students have been accepted for admission next year, compared with 1116 accepted students for the Class of
‘99. This reflects the drop in applications from 3061 total to 2824 total. However, students who have enrolled in the
Early Decision process for the Class of 2000 number 155, down only seven from last year. The total number of
students enrolled in the Class of ‘99 totals 433.

The accepted students boast a middle 50% range on the SAT verbal section of 630 to 730, and a 640
to 720 range on the math section. Their combined midrange scores range from 1280 to 1430. This group also comes
from the very top of their respective high school classes. The median class rank for women was top 2%, top
4% for men. Such a high class rank correlates to an outstanding midrange GPA, 3.6 to 4.2 when recalculated by
the admissions office to reflect the rigor of the students’ high school.

Junior Tour Guide Jamie White leads smart kids around campus.

Both the rate of applications and acceptances for minority students are up for the Class of 2000, accounting for 10%
of both figures. Those accepted for the Class of 2000 come from an enormous diversity of backgrounds. Students were accepted
from 680 different high schools in 44 states and 34 foreign countries, including Indonesia, Kenya, Lebanon, Rwanda, Singapore, and Zambia.

Scott Burkhardt

Students rally for new house

By BROOKE BAGWELL
Staff Writer

A group of Davidson students are in the process of investigating the option of a coed eating house—they hope to
form an organization that will offer a unique opportunity for interaction among a diverse group of constituents. Freshmen Tommy Ross,
Adam Hickey, and Jordan deBree are heading the movement to found the new eating house. The students feel the introduction
of a coed eating house will provide another alternative to the Davidson social life. Organizers hope to form a house
similar to the Union, the Outpost, and Vail Commons. The founders want the new house to have both social and
dining functions.

Tommy Ross sees a coed house as an opportunity to develop male and female relationships at a deeper level. The
setting would promote such interaction, which is difficult to achieve in single-sex dining and socializing provided by eating houses and
fraternities. However, the founders are quick to establish that the move for a coed eating house is not meant as
an affront to Patterson Court. Hickey says, “we want to stress [that] this is in no way an anti-Court move.
We mean this as an alternative ... this is not going to be a self-righteous clique.”

deBree reported that after one day of petition signing, 150 signatures had been collected to show support of the movement
and express possible interest in house membership. Faculty and administration have also given their support and encouragement in the possibility
of a coed eating house. Ross, Hickey, and deBree plan to host a forum to allow all who are interested
to show their support and offer ideas. The students are anxious to hear from those interested and hopefully arrive at
a consensus concerning the nature and function of the new house. The forum will take place on Thursday, April 4,
at 7:00 p.m. in the Big Screen Room.

PROFILE

Assistant Director of Public Safety

By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
Assistant News Editor

Ray Liguori

Students may not have seen Ray Liguori, Davidson College’s new Assistant Director of Public Safety: Occupational Health, Safety, andEnvironmental Manager,
but they have probably observed the clouds of dust he leaves in his tracks. Constantly on the move, Liguori’s job
includes such responsibilities as carrying out monthly inspections of every building on campus, handling the storage of hazardous waste generated
in the science departments, conducting monthly safety meetings with staff, and organizing Davidson’s first Campus Safety Committee. Although he officially
works out of the Campus Police Department, Liguori says, “I call the campus my office.”

Liguori first came to Davidson four years ago. During those four years, he filled a part-time position in the public
safety area. Liguori took on his duties as Assistant Director of Public Safety last summer, he explains, when Davidson saw
the need to create a full-time position dealing with health and safety matters. Of Davidson, Liguori says, “I think it’s
fantastic... I’m very excited to be here. Everybody in all the groups I’ve had contact with are great to work
with.”

“A lot of students don’t know what goes on behind the scenes in making the campus safe,” he explains. “They
don’t know that there is someone overseeing a program to deal with health and safety.” The bulk of Liguori’s job
consists of building inspections. “When I go into a building,” he says, “I look at everything, including the stairs, exit
signs, and fire extinguishers.” Knowledgeable in public health and safety laws, Liguori checks the entire campus for compliance with countless
governmental regulations. As far as classrooms and faculty work areas, Liguori says he is responsible for “looking at the work
environment and making sure it’s safe.” In the chemistry and biology areas, he checks the function of ventilation hoods, an
important task due to the toxic chemicals used in the buildings, he says. However, due to the nature of his
job, he sees relatively little of the Davidson student body. “The only time I’m getting a lot of contact with
students is while checking the fire extinguishers,” he says.

Genders From page 10

One idea that would immediately improve gender relations is coed housing by floor in freshman dorms. The SGA, acting on
that student demand, passed a resolution last year to allow such living arrangements. One hall in the sophomore dorms is
semi-co-ed, but a true co-ed hall has yet to become a reality. Sophomore Sean Keesee favors the plan: “If they
want us to live well together, they should let us live together.” Women’s Issues chair Joselyn Schultz agrees. She says,
“[Other plans] can only go so far. Coed housing is the next step.”

GRADUATE SCHOOL? — Invest now in a plan that will allow you to graduate debt-free without sacrificing your study time.
892-8456 Ask for Mollie.

Seafood, BBQ & Gardening Featuring GREAT Seafood, outstanding Ribeye Steaks, our famous Barbecue and award-winning Banana Pudding PLUS Much More!
LUNCH HOURS: Friday, 11:30 - 2:00 P.M. DINNER: Tues. - Sat., 5:00 P.M. - 9:00 P.M. 18150 Statesville Rd., CORNELIUS

RLO director Kurt Holmes has looked into the idea but says, “Tradition and logistics make such a change difficult. Belk
has always housed men since its construction and most dorms were built to house only one sex... Three fourths of
the campus is already coed. And, the senior apartments are as coed as you can get.”

Sigma Phi Epsilon hosted a forum on gender relations and Patterson Court last Tuesday. With the help of Georgia Ringle,
the group discussed, according to President Rix Threadgill, "how we could improve on hook-up themes." A secret ballot was taken
with questions such as: "What is your idea of an ideal party at Davidson?" The results have not been tallied
yet. However, Threadgill was not optimistic: "I don't think anything productive really came out of it."

Shandley, aware of the varied solutions and their pros and cons, says, “No clear and quick answers exist to improving
gender relations. The self-study is a start. It outlines the problems, of which it will ultimately be up to the
whole campus to try and fix.”

Make your parents proud. Write for News. Call -2148.
