6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ELSEWHERE: Week in Washington

Congress approves line-item veto

By David Santschi
Washington Week Correspondent

Working feverishly before a two-week recess that began Saturday, the House on Thursday approved a form of the line-item veto by a 232-177 vote. Because the Senate already passed the bill, it will be sent promptly to President Clinton, who is certain to sign it.

With the line-item veto, the president could accept or reject individual line items in spending bills approved by Congress. After the president submits a list of his cuts to Congress, both houses could accept all or part of the cuts. The cuts that are accepted would take effect immediately. The cuts that are not accepted would be sent back to the president in the form of a bill of disagreement. The president would then veto this bill; only if two-thirds of both chambers voted to override the presidential veto would it become law. This process is called “enhanced rescission” because the president could not remove items without recourse through Congress.

Opponents of the line-item veto, most notably Sen. Robert Byrd (D-WV), believe that “the power of the purse is the central pillar upon which the constitutional temple of checks and balances rests, and if that pillar crumbles, the temple will fall.”

Despite its convoluted procedure, the line-item veto raises serious constitutional questions. It would result in a substantial transfer of power from the legislative to the executive branch. The president would have some discretion over individual spending projects, which Congress now enjoys exclusively. Even if the line-item veto is signed into law by the president, it is almost certain to face a Supreme Court challenge within two years after its enactment.

President Clinton supports the line-item veto, which he believes would “ensure that our public resources are put to the best possible uses.” Supporters of the measure argue that wasteful spending, often attached to other non-related bills, would decrease substantially if the president had more fiscal authority.

After President Clinton signs the bill into law, the line-item veto would not take effect until after January 1, 1997, after the presidential election is over. This stipulation resulted from negotiations between Clinton and his Republican rival for the presidency, Sen. Bob Dole (R-KS). Neither side claimed to want to use the issue as a political weapon in the fall election campaign.

The passage of the line-item veto signals the opening of a hectic legislative season before the presidential campaign begins in earnest. Both candidates will be delicately maneuvering to claim credit for enacted legislation and use stalled issues as political weapons. With a divided government and leaders of two branches running against each other, passage of substantial legislation seems unlikely. The spirit of compromise that produced the line-item veto will probably disappear as intense campaigning begins and divisive issues emerge that can be exploited for political gain.

Global Perspective

Back to the U.S.S.R? Elections threaten return to communist system

By Eric Collins
Guest Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

On March 15, the Duma of the Russian Federation passed a non-binding resolution which declared the Belavezha Accords dissolving the Soviet Union unconstitutional. This action, spearheaded by the Communist Party faction, essentially insinuated that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics continues to exist. Leaders from the majority of the former Soviet republics, especially the Baltic and Transcaucasian states, immediately denounced the resolution as illegitimate, unwise, and a threat to stability. Western diplomats such as Secretary of State Warren Christopher also voiced their disapproval.

Despite these statements and the worldwide attention which the Duma announcement generated, it is likely that the domestic spinoffs will far outweigh the international implications. The Russian presidential election will occur on June 16, 1996. The beleaguered incumbent, President Boris Yeltsin, currently trails the Communist candidate Gennadi Zyuganov by roughly ten percent in most polls. The Communists, who parlayed widespread dissatisfaction with living conditions and the bloody civil war in Chechnya into resounding results in the December 1995 parliamentary elections, forced President Yeltsin to dismiss most of the reformers in his cabinet and make outrageous promises about social services to the citizenry.

Divisions within the democratic front as both Yegor Gaidar and Grigorii Yavlinsky refuse to withdraw in support of Yeltsin contrast sharply with the willingness of hard-liners such as Viktor Anpilov, Aleksandr Rutskoi, and Aman Tuleev to subordinate their interests to that of Mr. Zyuganov and the Communist Party. Add in Vladimir Zhirinovsky, the ultra-nationalist leader, and retired General Aleksandr Lebed, and many experts predict that President Yeltsin will struggle to reach the run-off election which will occur if, as is likely, no candidate receives fifty percent of the vote in the first round.

However, the recent Duma resolution should help President Yeltsin, already closing the gap separating him from Mr. Zyuganov in the latest polls. President Yeltsin immediately denounced the resolution and requested that the Federation Council (upper house of the parliament) investigate the proceedings. Furthermore, he can portray this particular incident as indicative of the policy course which the Communists would pursue if they come to power. While the majority of Russian citizens may express nostalgia for the days of the Soviet Union, most realize that a return to the past is simply not possible given the path down which Russia has traveled. They do value improved relations with the other republics, however.

Therefore, in the weeks following the Duma declaration, President Yeltsin announced an agreement with Belarus creating a “union of deep integration.” The Central Asian nations of Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan also initialed accords strengthening economic ties with the Russian Federation. He essentiallyHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

coopted the Communist position, but in a milder, less strident fashion. Mr. Zyuganov quickly realized the political advantage gained by President Yeltsin and backtracked to insist that he opposed the timing of the Duma resolution, preferring to wait until after the presidential elections. Other Communist leaders, however, emboldened by the reaction elicited in the international community, vowed to press forward with other measures such as a constitutional amendment abolishing the institution of the presidency. Perhaps the Communist Party is not monolithic after all. With less than three months until the presidential election, the result appears to hinge upon which candidate presents a united front come June 16th.

Kegs from page 1 will ultimately hand a recommendation to the trustees. Currently, the CCRL meeting is scheduled for April 4, not giving students much time to organize options for the trustees to consider. A subcommittee of the CCRL has been formed in order to advise them on a decision. The subcommittee is made up of SGA President Warren Buford, Union Board President Sara Beth Hamlin, Patterson Court Advisor Beth Bell, History Professor Jonathan Berkey, and CCRL members Tripp Franklin, Caroline Polster, and Matt Rich. Members of this subcommittee, in turn, have formed committees of their own to get student input on the issue. Buford has formed an SGA Ad-Hoc Committee on the Alcohol Policy, while Hamlin has met with a “small task force” of Union Board members. The PCC has also discussed this issue at length.

However, the general populace of Davidson still feels confused about the details of the argument. The basic facts are:
- The self-study has recommended that the school eliminate kegs. The trustees have the ultimate say at their April 19th meeting.
- The committees have been formed to represent the student voice and are now debating whether to recommend this keg ban to the CCRL, as well as what options the school has in the advent of a keg ban.
- The keg ban is based on liability issues. Insurance for eating houses has increased dramatically in the last few years, and fraternities have been constantly reviewed by their national chapters. So far, Davidson has been virtually accident-free, but should an accident happen a lawsuit could fall on individual officers. The actual purchase of alcohol by the fraternities and eating houses makes them liable.
- Committee members have played with many different options for a new alcohol policy. Cans, tents in the middle of the court, a third party (not associated with the school or the Court) vendor, and a regulated amount bought by each house member have all been discussed in meetings.

Committee members have been in contact with several different schools around the nation gathering information. Many students, however, feel that their voice is not being heard. Senior Peter Varney, a member of CCRL, says, “I think that a lot of students are feeling very defeatist about the whole thing—they are resigned to the fact that kegs are going to go, and a little bit concerned that they are limited in their influence about what their options are.” Many worry that the new alcohol policy will lead to closed parties and a smaller court. Others voice concern that students will drink off-campus, leading to a higher rate of drunk driving and problems with the surrounding community. Subcommittee member Sara Beth Hamlin says they are making sure that Court interests are being kept in mind: “We want to have open parties without limiting who comes in, and we want to avoid drunk driving.”

After the PCC meeting Sunday night, in which Court leaders met with Court Advisors, some members felt discontent and defeat. Sigma Phi Epsilon President Rix Threadgill says, “I feel like we talk a lot but don’t get anything done—it's [not in our hands].” Pi Kappa Alpha President Dave Farrar is also frustrated. “I feel like all of our committees are for nothing.” PCC president John Cowan says, “nothing definite came out of the meeting.” Bell was unavailable for comment.

Buford has confidence that the student voice will be heard by the trustees. “I think it would be disturbing if the committees were for nothing. I’m trying to do what I can to ensure more student representation ... I can guarantee that the student voice will be heard at all levels. That’s my obligation. If there is one thing I am disappointed in it is the lack of information to the student body about the issue.” Students who have strong opinions about the issue can voice their comments at an open forum on Tuesday in Chambers at 7 p.m.

---

Note: Minor typographical errors and formatting issues have been corrected for clarity.