THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & TN PG

Weezer guides tour of a fetish

BY JAMES BERRY
Staff Writer

I suspect that Rivers Cuomo, lead singer, rhythm guitarist, and principal songwriter for Weezer, has a thing for Japanese girls.
Let me tell you why. Looking over the band’s latest album, Pinkerton, is like following the dotted trails of a
treasure map to the elusive X. A far cry from the baby blue portrait of the band in all their
alternative anti-glory, Pinkerton’s liner notes credit Hiroshige’s “Kambara: Night Snow” with this sophomore cover. What does this prove? Nothing. But
if you check out the back cover, you’ll notice the faint watermark of a Japanese woman in what I guess
to be traditional clothing.

Open the jewel case and a scrap of an image peeks out from the center of that black plastic panel
that clamps the disc in place. Behind it, you’ll find an old map of Japan with small drawings of wooden
seafaring ships (one of which is the U.S.S. Pinkerton — I think I can guess where they got the title).
If this isn’t enough, the song “Across the Sea” is about an 18-year-old girl from Japan who sent a letter
to Cuomo and, though he’s intrigued, he admits, “I could never touch you/I think it would be wrong/I’ve got your
letter/You’ve got my song.” But the kicker is the song “El Scorcho” when, over a drunken acoustic riff, Cuomo belts,
“God damn you half-Japanese girls/You do it to me every time/The redhead said you shred the cello/And I’m jello, baby.”
Case dismissed.

Like Weezer’s self-titled debut, Pinkerton bases its sound on a blend of heavily distorted guitars, a solid bass, some consistent
drumming, and a unique, three-part vocal delivery. The treats exclusive to this album, besides Cuomo’s sugary melodies, lie in the
band’s self-production. They chose to throw in the occasional synthesized guitar, some distortion on the bass, and even a dab
of slide guitar while holding back on the vocal harmony and acoustic overdubs. Also, the quieter parts of the songs
don’t commit to a strictly clean sound (without distortion) but the benefit is a highly organic quality to the music.
Add to this a metered sloppiness and the result is a very live, very real sound usually absent from mainstream
albums which tend to crank up the reverb (the effect you get when you’re singing in the shower—the one that
makes your voice sound good even if you can’t carry a tune) at every available opportunity.

Pinkerton’s lyrics revolve around a few conspicuous themes. And, since every song is written by Rivers Cuomo, listening to the
album is like listening to an internal dialogue. Most of the songs fit comfortably into a category coined by one
of my friends as “chick songs”—a form dedicated to the unending pursuit of girls. Though the form is conventional, the
obstacles in Cuomo’s way are not. In “Tired of Sex,” he explores meaningless physical encounters, narrating the events of one
week. “Monday night I’m making Jen/Tuesday night I’m making Lin/Wednesday night I’m making Catherine.” He sums up his feelings about
the situation in one line: “So why can’t I be making love come true.” Another song, “Pink Triangle,” finds Cuomo
ready to tie the knot with a lesbian. It opens with a guitar and xylophone duet reminiscent of 50s Christmas
ballads before swan diving into the...Weezer brand of roaring guitars. “I’m dumb, she’s a lesbian/I thought I had found the
one.” Cuomo often finds his own personality at fault for his failure in love. In “Why Bother?” he questions the
benefits of relationships over the inevitable pain of a break-up. “Why bother?/It’s gonna hurt me/It’s gonna kill when you desert
me/This happened to me twice before/It won’t happen any more.” Though recognizably different, Pinkerton doesn’t mark much of a departure
from the established Weezer sound. Chances are, if you liked “Undone (the sweater song)” and “Say It Ain’t So,” you'll
love this album. But if you, say, enjoy ridiculing your friends by calling the band such names as “Sneezer,” you’d
be better off ignoring the fact that there’s another album out to annoy you.

Project Life Bone Marrow Drive Committee needs donations! Each $60 donation allows another person to be typed. Help us increase
the odds of finding a donor for patients in need of a bone marrow transplant. Send tax-deductible donations to: P.O.
Box 834 Davidson, NC 28036

Jumpin’ Java gets you ready to study (or sleep) in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.
Lunch serves you in the 900 Room 11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m.
Halloween Festival in the 900 Room 7:30 p.m. - 9:00 p.m. (costumes optional)
The Duchess Nail, Hair & Tanning Salon
Full service salon for women & men
892-7030 "Best Prices in Town"

South Asian Study Break in the 900 Room 10 p.m. - 11:15 p.m.
Coffeehouse will wake you up in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.
Phil Duncan, an editor of Congressional Quarterly, will speak on the elections in the 900 Room 7 p.m.
Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.
Twenty-one Year Old Night is where you will find the upperclassmen in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.
Careers Fair, sponsored by the Career Center (who else?), will take place in Chamber’s Gallery 10 a.m. - 3 p.m.
Loretta Kopelman, chair of the medical humanities program of East Carolina University, will speak on “HIV/AIDS: Women and Children” in
Chambers Gallery 7 p.m.

Rocky Horror Picture Show will get you in the Halloween spirit in the 900 Room 9:30 p.m.
Coffeehouse perks you up in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 1:15 a.m.
F.A.C Pub will be in the 900 Room 4:30 p.m. - 8:00 p.m.
Rocky Horror Picture Show will show again (you can’t see it too many times!) in the 900 Room 8 p.m.
Saturday Night Live promises laughter in the 900 Room 8 p.m.
Shelly Sutton will perform in the Outpost from 9 p.m. - midnight.
Jumpin’ Java jumpstarts your week in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Nails
Manicures * Pedicures in European spa pedicure chair
Acrylic * Gels * Tips * Fiberglass
NAIL BOUTIQUE
Tanning "Hottest Bulbs in Town"
$4.00 per session * $33.00 for 10 sessions
$43.00 for 15 sessions * $50.00 for 20 sessions
Treat yourself...you deserve it
Ask for Connie, Michelle, or Susan
RedKen Hair Products & more...
Davidson College Campus
Located 1/2 mile south of 20700 N. Main St.

Evoking the Knight by Nathan Summerlin
An interactive play with music on Friday, Nov. 1 at 8 p.m. and at midnight in the Black Box Theater.
Also, Saturday, Nov. 2 at 8 p.m.
