SPORTS 14 MONDAY, MARCH 25, 1996

Kruse’s Cubby: Anarchy reigns supreme
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Assistant Sports Editor

This weekend, I trekked to Atlanta for the NCAA East Regional. While UMass won an all-expenses-paid vacation to exotic New Jersey with its 86-62 dismantling of Georgetown, Lee “One of a” Kynes, my basketball-watching buddy and Thursday’s chauffeur, paid a bum $5 for parking. Yup, we parked in just any old lot in Ted Turner’s Magic Kingdom and the guy came up to good ol’ unsuspecting Lee. “Yo, fih-dollah,” he blurted. Lee, in a pathetically futile effort to be street-smart, requested a ticket confirming the deal. He got a random pink piece of paper. The slick bum got five dollars richer.

But then again, what’s another five bucks when visiting the peachy Georgia Dome, home of the three-buck souvenir cup. In a college student’s financial realm, three bucks means a meal. Speaking of getting gypped, the friendly Baker Sports Complex brigade has decided to destroy Belk Arena and then rebuild it just in time for June. Good thing they decided to do that now so that the courts will be rip, roarin’, and ready to go by the time all the students leave. $25,000, and we can’t even play basketball. Baker’s pretty carpet rocks the much-maligned library carpet’s house, but that doesn’t change the fact that it closes at ten on weeknights, whereas the library stays open until 1 a.m. And 3 a.m. during exams! Over Spring Break, Baker opened from noon till 2 p.m. Two hours. Why bother? Anarchy.

My crystal Pizza Hut Rawlings Game Ball sees a streetball revolution, possibly bloody, soon taking over Davidson College. And that’s not the only thing my trusty crystal Ball predicts. Presenting my final four picks: the Syracuse “Wallace” Orangemen beat the Miss. St. “What’s wrong with this picture?” Bulldogs in the undercard before the Kentucky “It’s almost too easy” Wildcats outlast the UMass “Why are we playing these guys on Saturday” Minutemen in the feature presentation—an epic heavyweight battle. Kentucky cuts the nets down after you finish reading next week’s Davidsonian. Prepare yourself.

Pastel dominates the hardcourts
By TYLER EPP
Staff Writer

As the men’s tennis team powers into conference play, sophomore Jon Pastel, the Wildcats’ top singles player, is quietly having one of the best years in Davidson tennis history. After posting an 8-3 mark in the fall tournament season, Pastel has dominated this spring, already tallying eleven wins with twelve matches to go. “It has been a great start so far,” Pastel said, “I have had an opportunity to play some of the best players in the nation this year, but there’s still a lot of tennis left to play.”

Pastel’s performances against North Carolina’s All-American David Caldwell and South Carolina’s Keith Brill turned some heads and established Pastel’s reputation as one of the Southeast’s premier players. Pastel’s fall campaign merited a regional ranking of 29, but after knocking off a number of players ahead of him this spring, he expects a spot in the top 20 by the end of this year. “Jon’s mental toughness and tenacity have been two of his greatest assets throughout his two years here in the Davidson program,” said coach Jeff Frank.

In addition to Pastel’s singles prowess, he is fast becoming one of the Southern Conference’s most respected doubles players. He and senior co-captain Bill Mitchem have combined to post a 5-1 record this spring, including a victory over the nation’s ninth-ranked tandem. “Jon is a phenomenal player, especially for being only 5’6”,” Mitchem said. In addition to gaining the league’s and nation’s attention, Pastel has earned respect from his teammates and coaches. “Jon is a great example on and off the court,” teammate Ted Kaplan said, “His dedication to the game and his team are truly admirable.” Assistant coach Bryce Plott agreed, “The sky is the limit for a player of his caliber.”

With Pastel leading, the future of Wildcat tennis looks especially bright. “We have an exciting blend of young talent,” Pastel said, “There is no limit to how far this team can go.” Pastel is also closing in on fifty career singles wins, putting himself in a position to break Bill Young’s mark of 112. “Jon Pastel represents the class and dignity of Davidson tennis,” said Frank, “His work ethic and dedication are unparalleled.”Determination defines what it means to be a Wildcat.” Davidson tees off on an ETSU pitch during a recent homestand. Tom Glaser Wildcats end slide. 

By Kevin ZVARGULIS Staff Writer

Despite Luke Goodwin’s team-leading .400 average, baseball had lost eight straight until stopping the skid this weekend by taking two of three from conference foe Furman. On Tuesday, defending Northern Ivy League Champion Yale was in town. The game began auspiciously as Davidson scored six runs in the first inning. The slugfest was far from over though. Yale exploded for seven runs in the seventh to take an 11-8 lead. Davidson answered in the bottom of the inning with five runs of their own, only to lose the game 15-13 in the ninth when Yale scored four times. 

For Davidson, Gus Quattlebaum and Brad Edwards each had three hits and three RBIs, while Anderson Marvin chipped in two hits and three RBIs including a three-run home run. The team tried to bounce back against former Davidson head coach George Greer and Wake Forest on Wednesday. Davidson had already defeated Wake Forest once this season in a dramatic ninth-inning comeback. But, Wake Forest ran away with this game 14-3. 

Davidson ended its winless streak in the second game of Saturday’s doubleheader against Furman. In the first game, Davidson fell behind early and was unable to recover. Despite a three-run eighth inning, the Wildcats eventually lost 7-4. Davidson dominated the second game, ending their skid decisively. The offense posted 14 runs and Chris Pollard (4-3) allowed 1 run on the mound for the lopsided victory. The middle of the order combined for nine hits and nine RBIs including four from Jeff Coker. The Wildcats went on to win Sunday’s game by a score of 8-7. They jumped to an early lead and Rhett Ingerick’s (2-2) solid seven-inning pitching performance held off the Paladins.

Casner plays tough

By CARLO REYNOLDS Staff Writer

Dana Casner did not expect to play first seed on the women’s tennis team as a freshman. “One weekend after [Christmas] break, the coach called me in and told me [I would play #1]; I was very happy,” she says. Casner says that she has had to give her tennis game greater priority than she did in high school in Coral Springs, Florida. “I’ve always played tennis seriously, but in high school, tennis came second to school,” she reflects. “Now, I really have to do both. Whenever I don’t have tennis, I am studying.” 

The freshman credits her college success to increased practice and competition, but she also says she is playing better than she ever has. She is 7-3 in singles and 9-5 in doubles with freshman Amber Bradford (who also plays #2 singles) as a partner. The #4 and #6 spots are also occupied by freshmen. Playing other schools’ more experienced, top-ranked women does not bother Casner. Much of the time, other Davidson players can tell her what to expect. But when she competes with women she knows nothing about, she does not feel as if it is a disadvantage. “Last week, no one knew anything, and I had to just go in and see what would happen,” Casner says. 

Unlike some competitive tennis players, Casner does not rely on emotion and momentum to carry her through difficult matches. Against especially tough opponents, Casner admits that she uses emotion to help her, but day to day, she says that preparation is more important. “It really depends on who I’m playing and where I’m playing. Having one good win gives you more confidence, but you’re not going to play better consistently because of it,” she states. Over Spring break, Casner had what she considers her best win of the year when Davidson played James Madison. “I’d heard a lot about who I was playing. She was supposedly ranked well in juniors, and I’d seen her play. It was a very good win,” Casner says with a smile.

Weekly Schedule

Baseball
@ Wake Forest 3:00
Sat. @ GSU (2) 4:30
Sun. @ GSU 1:30

Men’s Tennis
Thur. @ Belmont Abbey 2:30

Women’s Tennis
Sat. @ UTC 11:00 a.m.
Sun. @ WCU 1:00

Women’s Lacrosse
Fri. vs. Stanford @ Vanderbilt 5:00
Sun. @ Vanderbilt noon

Men’s Golf
Sun.-Tues. Mercer Inv. @ Macon, GA

Men’s and Women’s Track
Sat. @ Emory