THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1996

Rosetta, Douglas Durrant, Nathan Raley, Chris Bagley, and Easy have fun together at the Emaus House in Harlem.
Josh Glazer

Twelve students spend spring break working with homeless in Harlem
By CATHERINE ANDERSON & NARESH NAGELLA
News and Asst. News Editors

One group of students did not opt for the comforts of beaches or their homes during spring break. Instead, they
spent a week with the homeless. Twelve Davidson students, led by freshman Chad Wellmon, spent the week at Emaus House
in the heart of Harlem, New York. The shelter is a halfway house that functions as a recovery program for
those suffering from drugs, alcoholism, and homelessness. Residents must be motivated to stay sober in order to participate, which includes
working for the institution and receiving a weekly stipend.

“It was a really neat experience to live with people who were homeless and hear their experiences,” says freshman Catherine
O’Dell, who helped fix up a house owned by the Emaus House. The students, led by the residents, helped make
meals and distribute clothing as well.

“It was one of the most eye-opening experiences I’ve ever had. It taught me to view homelessness in a new
light, and to see how willing these people are to transform their lives,” says freshman Kelly Westbrook. “It made me
see myself in a whole new light.”

Wellmon states, “It was interesting to see the world from a minority's point of view. [Being one of the few
white people] in Harlem, a policeman even asked me what I was doing there.” Wellmon also got a better picture
of the type of people who fall on hard times. He says, “It is important to note that these were
middle-class people who were very intelligent, eloquent, and good chess players to boot.”

Westbrook spent much of her time with drug addicts who were trying to beat their problems. “It was great to
actually hold conversations with them and actually hear about their thoughts and emotions. It made me realize that people should
talk about their feelings more,” she says.

Wellmon says it was “An experience I will never forget and a great way to find out that poverty is
not always the result of laziness.”

Films, forums and speakers planned for Women’s Month
By AMY WHITMIRE
Staff Writer

The Women’s Issues Committee has designed a series of activities to celebrate Women’s Month. Junior Joselyn Schultz, chairperson of the
Women’s Issues Committee, says, “Our goal for the month is to create more exposure to women, women’s ideas, sexuality, and
the politics surrounding feminism today. This month gets a lot of attention, and we would like to see people pay
attention to women’s issues throughout the year.”

The activities include displays, films, forums, and guest speakers. Monday, March 18th, “Why Men Hit?: A Forum on Male Responsibility”
will be held at 4 p.m. in the 900 Room. During the forum, Laura Warren, the director of NOVA, will
discuss domestic violence, an issue which received much media coverage during the O. J. Simpson trial but which has not
traditionally received much attention elsewhere.

Tuesday, March 19th, Christina Hoff Sommers, associate professor of philosophy at Clark University and author of the best-selling book Who
Stole Feminism?, will speak at 7:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium. Sommers is a conservative feminist who maintains that feminists today
are on the wrong path and that the last true feminists were Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton.

The annual “Take Back the Night” forum will occur Monday, March 25th at 8 p.m. in the 900 Room. The
event features the personal accounts of survivors of rape and dating violence. A Women’s Poetry Reading at Jumpin’ Java Cafe
will be held in the Outpost at 8 p.m.Thursday, March 28th. Additionally, Davidson Outdoors is sponsoring different events for women
throughout the month, and a quilt exhibit will be in the Union as part of Women’s History Month.

Confident in Davidson’s qualification to offer such a program, McMillen adds, “We're a Southern college so this plays to our
strength. We have lots of faculty who teach Southern writing and history, and many faculty engage in research focusing on
the South.”

In order to receive a concentration, students must take five or six classes in their designated subject within several different
disciplines. Pre-requisite to the Southern studies concentration, students must enroll in “The Old South,” “The New South,” or “Southern Writers,”
in addition to four other electives. Professor McMillen hopes students will utilize local historical sites and museums. In order to
further expand the program, organizers plan to bring speakers to campus once a semester.

OPEN LETTER
CCRL: We want to hear what you have to say

To all students:

Last semester the SGA appointed the six of us to serve on the Council on Campus and Religious Life, essentially
an advisory group to the Dean of Students. In addition to us, the CCRL consists of a number of faculty
members (Professors Berkey, McCulloh, Peroni, Poland, Shannon, and Tong), two students elected recently (Caroline Polster and Matt Rich), SGA President
Warren Buford, Reach Out President Katie Brasfield, PCC President John Cowan, Union Board President Sara Beth Hamlin, and Ecumenical Council
Representative Jacob Darling. Dean Shandley sits as the chairperson of the council.

As you probably know, in order to make the massive changes in the alcohol policy that were advocated in the
Self-Study, the CCRL will have to make a recommendation to President Kuykendall. As active members and friends of Patterson Court,
we already have strong feelings about the need to preserve the safe and open nature of on-campus social life at
Davidson. We also have our own apprehensions and fears about a keg-free Court. But what do you, the members of
the Davidson community, think? The six of us, before we make a decision on the future of Patterson Court, want
to hear your advice. If you have strong feelings about this issue, please contact us. Call us on the phone.
Stop us in Chambers, Baker, the Union, or the Post Office. Send us e-mail. We really want to hear what
you think and feel about this issue, in order that we can make a sound decision that reflects the wishes
of the people on whom it will have an impact. Nothing is inevitable. We can and will make a difference,
but we need your support.

Sincerely,
Bill Buff ‘96
Seth Clippard ‘97
Humes Franklin ‘98
Adam Knapp ‘96
Ellen Rockwell ‘99
Peter Varney ‘96

Summer 1996!
Term I: May 16 - June 27
Term II: July 1 - August 10

Our summer rate is comparable to most out-of-state student rates.
A simple and easy registration process.
Pre-professional courses (pre-med, pre-law, pre-business) in biology, chemistry, physics, political science, history, Film; Gaines in American Fiction: ‘The Photograph and
Native American History; The Russian Revolutionary Cinema; Street Children/Working Children; The Brain of the Robot; and many more.
Summer housing is in one-bedroom, air-conditioned apartments (only a five-minute walk to classrooms) with amenities including swimming pools and lighted
tennis courts, all adjacent to the Sarah P. Duke Gardens on the Duke campus.
Institute in English Language and U.S. Culture: an intensive four-week, noncredit English program.

For more information or to request a bulletin:
CALL (919) 684-2621; FAX (919) 681-8235; or e-mail summer@acpub.duke.edu

Continuing Education and Summer Session
DUKE UNIVERSITY

For Seafood, BBQ & Catering
Featuring GREAT Seafood, outstanding Ribeye Steaks, our famous Barbecue and award-winning Banana Pudding PLUS Much More!

LUNCH HOURS: Friday, 11:30 - 2:00 P.M.
DINNER: Tues. - Sat., 5:00 P.M. - 9:00 P.M.
18150 Statesville Rd., CORNELIUS
