THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1996

Prices at the Union - are we getting a good deal?

By Brad D. Cause
Staff Writer

You’ve got five minutes before your next class and all of a sudden you have a life-threatening candy urge. Heading over to the Union Cafe to pick up some candy, you feel pretty smug knowing that Bonus Bucks are going to cover your little addiction. Putting a scoop full of candy into a plastic bag, you take it up to the counter and just out of curiosity see how much your little treat will cost. Then, like a speeding train heading toward you, you realize that the small bag of candy goods is going to cost you a whopping $2! It’s just Bonus Bucks you tell yourself — they don’t matter. But what happens when all of the Bonus Bucks are gone and you have to use cash again?

This scenario is becoming more common at the Union Cafe. Prices for the Tropical Fruit and Nut Company candy went from 30¢ an ounce before Winter Break to the present 45¢ — a 50% increase in price. Upon exiting the Union Cafe with a look of disbelief, freshman Cameron Martin recently exclaimed, “Three dollars for a couple of gummy bears? What a rip off!”

Prices on other goods seem to have mysteriously increased also. Quenching your thirst these days will cost you another 50¢ if you want a recyclable plastic cup. A “Davidson Recycles” plastic cup used to run you a mere 99¢ but those days are gone. The new market price is $1.49.

Since the bulk of business at the Union Cafe is done with Bonus Bucks, many unsuspecting customers pay little attention to the cost of their snacking habits. Freshman Ralph Morehead comments that “it seems like they have a monopoly on campus. [The College] doesn’t give us many options as to where we can spend our Bonus Bucks so the Cafe can pretty much set their own prices. Since we want to use our Bonus Bucks, we end up paying those ridiculous prices.”

Julie Mills, manager of the Union Cafe, says that “[the Cafe] is more like a convenience store. The prices are more like a convenience store and not a supermarket such as Harris Teeter or Dover’s.” She blames the higher prices at the Union Cafe on “lack of storage space and the fact that we purchase in smaller quantities than larger stores and have to pay higher prices for this.” She adds that she “had done a survey between some convenience stores in the area last year and our prices fell right in line with these other stores.”

Mills says that the increase in prices of the Tropical Fruit and Nut candy selection is due to the supplier’s price increase that the Union Cafe must pass on to its customers. “We were forced to raise the prices for [the customers] because Tropical Fruit increased the price at which we purchase the candy,” Mills says.

A Harris Teeter representative says that the chain has not raised the prices on the Tropical Fruit and Nut candy and has no plans to do so in the future.

Union Cafe Price vs. Harris Teeter Price:
- Campbell’s Cup Noodles: $0.79 vs. $0.54
- Rice Krispies Treats: $0.69 each vs. $0.25 each
- Tide Detergent (1.43 lbs): $3.49 vs. $2.59
- Paper Towels: $1.40 vs. $0.99
- Close-Up (2.7 oz): $2.25 vs. $1.46
- Candy (1 lb): $7.20 vs. $3.99
- Snapple: $0.99 vs. $0.79
- 8 oz Dannon Yogurt: $0.99 vs. $0.72
- 1/2 Gallon Skim Milk: $1.59 vs. $1.45
- 1/2 Gallon Orange Juice: $1.79 vs. $1.49
- Dentyne (18 piece): $0.99 vs. $0.89
- Lay’s Potato Chips (6 oz): $1.49 vs. $1.49
- Rold Gold Pretzels: $1.59 vs. $1.59
- Neosporin$5.89 $3.69 6 Pack Coke (12 oz cans)  
$2.39 $2.39 6 Pack Coke (20 oz bottles)  
$2.99 $2.29 Triscuits (9.5 oz)  
$2.89 $2.39 Pringles  
$1.69 $1.39  
TOTAL $41.10 $30.49  

Party’s Over from page  
Kurt Holmes, “The policy will be enforced. Students in general will not like the change until they understand where it comes from. It does not have to do with control of alcohol. It has to do with keeping the court safe.”  

The self-study, which is done every 10 years, was begun in 1994. Faculty, administration, and students all participated on five committees that reviewed all aspects of the college.  

Write for news. It’s fun. Call Catherine -2148  

has a set mark-up in order to cover expenses such as labor, utilities, and maintenance. She declines to disclose what the actual markup is. She says, however, that one of the largest chunks of her budget is devoted to labor. Despite the high labor costs, the Union Cafe has one of the highest starting wages on campus and also employs no work-study students. Mills says, “No one seems to want to work the late hours so we have to pay them more.” However, the library is open just as late as the Union Cafe and it employs a staff of work-study students at lower wages.  

A comparison of prices between the Union Cafe and Harris Teeter is below (left).  

By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL  
Assistant News Editor  

As war ravaged the world in 1914, the battles across the Atlantic may have seemed far removed from the lives of Davidson’s 335 students. In October of that year, talk of the campus centered around a student-led excavation of a human skull from one of Chamber’s south columns. Disappointingly, the remainder of a mysterious skull, long rumored to have been hidden in this column, was not discovered. A month and a half later, however, a front-page article appeared in The Davidsonian concerning the Red Cross’ appeal to colleges across the country to help relieve the suffering overseas caused by the “European War.” “Never before in history,” the article ran, “has there been such need for aid.”  

Within a week, Davidson students had contributed over $30 to military medical care in Europe. By way of comparison, Davidson’s annual tuition at the time was listed as $60. By 1918 the U.S. was itself deeply involved in world war. Articles and editorials about the fighting in Europe filled the pages of The Davidsonian each week. Students were urged to “make the comparison between our sacrifice and that of England, and... have a meatless day each week.” All students were organized into companies which reported for military drill each day. Initially scheduled for the afternoon, drill was soon moved to 6:45 a.m. in order to allow for afternoon baseball practice.  

Davidson alumni and current students who traveled across the Atlantic to fight in WWI were recognized by the addition of blue stars to a flag displayed in front of Chambers. By the war’s end, nearly 600 stars adorned this flag.  

February 5, 1919, The Davidsonian printed the Memorial issue. While celebrating WWI’s end, students mourned the deaths of 17 Davidson alumni and dedicated this issue “to the memory of the Davidsonian men who have made the supreme sacrifice.”  

Suggested Name Submitted by:  
CONTEST! NAME DAVIDSON'S VOICE RESPONSE SYSTEM  
Individuals, halls, houses, groups submit suggestions to registrar's office. A group of students, faculty, and staff representation will select the winning entry. Contest Ends March 1  

Ext.: