THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 25, 1996

New Life
By Brad D. Cause
Staff Writer

The picturesque asphalt walkway meandering between trees hundreds of years old in front of Charles A. Dana Science Building may
soon be only a memory. However, the walkway and the trees are not the only things threatened by the proposed
Life Sciences building — commencement exercises and tradition are also at stake.

The new Life Science building has been on the drawing board for the last few years. Davidson has seen a
substantial increase in the number of students involved with Biology, and the current facilities are not only small, but outdated
as well. The new Life Science building is meant to solve both of these problems.

The current proposal puts the new building directly in front of the existing Dana Science building. Vice President of Academic
Affairs and Dean of Faculty, Robert Williams, commented that the new building “will take up most of the space in
front of Dana.” He also cautioned that the College would “save as many trees as possible.” However, no matter how
many trees are saved, the traditional commencement exercises would have to be moved to another location.

“We hope to keep graduation on the front yard,” Registrar Polly Griffin says. “We have been looking at areas at
the end of Chambers and the area to the right of the main walkway,” she added. Griffin also stressed that
the proposed Life Science building would not affect graduation this year. She was sympathetic with concerns about the graduation ceremonies.
“Commencement is perfect where it is — it’s a picture-perfect graduation location,” she said.

Malcolm Campbell, Assistant Professor of Biology, also expressed his regards for the proposed building: “It will be sad to see
the graduation ceremonies moved.” Dean Williams pointed out that “graduation has not always been held at that location. We have
held commencement in other areas outside, and I don’t think that the Life Science building will threaten this tradition,” he
says.

Within the next few years, the area in front of Dana will no longer set the scene for graduation.

Speaker Christine Hoff Sommers creates controversy on campus
By CATHERINE ANDERSON
News Editor

Christine Hoff Sommers spoke to an angry audience of Davidson students and faculty Tuesday. Sommers spoke about anti-intellectual, angry feminists,
calling herself an “equity” feminist who is pleased with the status quo. She also addressed false statistics used to perpetuate
the women’s movement. For example, several publications cite the number of anorexics who die each year as 150,000, but in
reality, she says, under 100 die each year.

“I thought it was good that someone like that came to stir up thought. She was very provocative, and I
know she made a lot of people mad,” says former Speaker’s Committee Chairman Chris Currie, who brought Sommers to campus.
“I knew we had brought Patricia Ireland last year, so I thought someone on the opposite end of the issue
would be a good idea to spark thought,” Currie added.

Junior Charlotte Seigler found Sommers’ presentation “very unintellectual and unprofessional. I felt like all she did was bash all of
the more ‘radical’ feminist leaders. One of her main arguments was that feminist leaders pervert...statistics, making the situation look worse
than it is. But she did the same thing.” Sommers used a list published from Cornell that addressed why women
should be angry at men but did not acknowledge that the list to which she referred was in response to
a similar publication on why women should not be allowed the freedom of speech. Many students were angered at this.
“She called the list [on why women should not be allowed free speech] ‘funny,’ and ‘a joke,’ and asked why
we couldn’t see it as that,” says Junior Joselyn Schultz, Women’s Issues Committee Chairperson. “She had no substance to her
argument and tried to turn feminism into two groups and divide feminism down the middle,” adds Schultz.

Some students agreed with Sommers’ argument. “I don’t like the feminist message that women are always victims. I think we
need something more about empowerment,” says Junior Carrie Blackburn. Senior Bill Gullan found the audience disrespectful. “One could have wished
for a more powerful and articulate exponent of her particular philosophy, and she was perhaps too glib at times, but
I found some people in the audience to be a little bit out of line.”

Josh Glazer Williams also thought it very realistic that the class of 1997 would have commencement ceremonies in front of
Dana. “We have only raised about half of the necessary money and the Trustees require us to have all of
the money for the building pledged before they will let us build.” He is optimistic that construction can start in
the summer of 1997 and will be completed in “less than two years.”

Ann Hatfield New President of the Honor Council
By Mary Clare JALONICK
Executive Editor

When Junior Ann Hatfield served on the SGA Ad-Hoc Committee that reviewed the Honor Code, she hoped they would be
able to address some of the problems they discovered. Now, as the newly elected president of the Honor Council, she
will work toward creating better communication between students, faculty, and council members. She believes that freshmen are well educated about
the code, but thinks, “we need to remind upperclassmen about the code at the first of each school year.” Hatfield
also hopes to further inform students about the regular procedures of the Council. “I feel confident in the Code,” she
says, “but at the same time I feel it could be even further strengthened by increasing awareness — all students
need to know what constitutes a violation and to whom to report it.”

Ewing has confidence in his successor. “Given her experience on trials and her unquestionable motivation, I think that she will
do a great job,” he says. “I think she wants to emphasize awareness among students, which is always important. I
am excited about Ann because I know she will do well in the trials and also outside of them with
public relations for the council,” he adds.

Hatfield, from Jonesboro, GA, has served on the Honor Council since her freshman year.

The Davidsonian is cool. Write for us.

Mexico/Caribbean $189 RT, Europe $169 OW, & Domestic Destinations Cheap!! IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE PRICES START YOUR OWN DAMN
AIRLINE. Air-Tech, Ltd. 212/219-7000 info@aerotech.com http://campus.net/aerotech

We provide individualized application through skill and All Salons are not created equal. Ours was created with YOU in mind.
We carry: Aveda, Paul Mitchell, Biolage, Nexxus, Senscience. 704/895-0404 Norman Crossing Shopping Center, I-77, Ex 28, Cornelius, NC
