THE DAVIDSONIAN | CD Review

JOURNEY... ...On into the ‘90s

By Robert Briggs
Staff Writer

The '90s have been a difficult time for some of the most successful recording artists of the previous decade. Many
acts with platinum and gold records hanging on their walls have been reduced to “Where Are They Now” and “It
Came From the Eighties” specials on VH-1 and MTV. Even former pop culture icons Prince and Michael Jackson are now
mentioned in the news more for their marital status and record company woes than for their latest musical releases.

So why would Journey, a band that enjoyed its greatest success near the beginning of the '80s and hadn’t released
a new studio album in ten years, decide to fight the stigma of its heyday and a possible generation gap
to attempt a comeback in 1996? Simply because for Journey, success was never based upon crashing synthesizers and cheap music
videos; for them, the formula for success was based upon soaring melodies and the enchantment of lead singer Steve Perry’s
vocals (which explains why some of their biggest hits, “Open Arms” and “Faithfully,” have been adult contemporary standards).

Journey’s new album, "Trial By Fire," recaptures the essence of what made them great on their new Columbia Records release.
While some songs show that they were a band of the eighties, many songs, like the album's first single “When
You Love A Woman,” do a magnificent job of combining enchanting piano riffs with Steve Perry’s almost ethereal voice. “Don’t
Be Down On Me Baby” and “It’s Just The Rain” have the feel of songs written and recorded without the
influence of time and trends.

The band also shows its adaptability to current trends with their lush string and acoustic guitar arrangements on the album’s
title track. If “Trial By Fire” is an indication of things to come, then Journey may well make the leap
from the eighties straight into the new millennium.

---

Mask Dance to portray Korean tradition

By Susan Ruggiero
Arts and Living Editor

The Mask Dance of Korea, featuring sixteen of Korea’s leading practitioners of court and folk mask dance tradition, will be
presented in a concert in Love Auditorium on Wednesday, November 13. The event is co-sponsored by the Davidson College Music
Department, College Union, and Dean Rusk Program, as well as the Korean Ministry of Culture. It is part of a
fourteen-performance tour that is one of the largest and most extensive programs of Korean traditional arts to ever come to
the United States.

The program represents a two-thousand-year history of one of Asia’s most important cultural traditions. The arts of Korea were highly
informed by shamanic practices of Siberia that have permeated virtually every aspect of the culture up to the present. In
the 5th century, the mask dance became a vehicle for satirizing monks.

Write for Arts and Living. Call Susan at -2148.to lustful behavior and other social ills imposed upon the lower classes.
The artists from the Korean Performing Arts Institute, Inc. also have a historical tradition dating to the 5th century. The
centre was originally a royal music institute and was maintained by each successive dynasty. The folk mask dance expresses the
human feelings of the people and the natural cycles of harvest, season, planting, and fertility as well as the joys
and sorrows of birth and death. The dance tends to be lively, dramatic, and bawdy, representing the aspirations and frustrations
of the common people. A contextual pre-performance video/lecture demonstration will be presented at 7 p.m. The concert begins at 8
p.m.

It Pays To Discover! Use Your Discover Card And Save Up To $25! To redeem call 1-800-IT-DISCOVER CARD PAYS

Bahamas Party Cruise
6 Days » All Meals » Free Parties » Includes Taxes

Cancun $399
7 Nights » Air + Hotel » Save $150 on Food & Drinks

Jamaica $419
7 Nights » Air + Hotel » Save $150 on Food & Drinks

Florida $119
7 Nights » Panama City, Daytona & Cocoa Beach

Spring Break Travel - Our 10th Year!
1-800-678-6386

Sleep Disorders Workshop will take place in the Home Room 7:30 p.m. - 9:00 p.m.

Outpost Poetry Reading will perhaps inspire studying or something better in the Outpost 8:30 p.m. - 10 p.m.

Russian Club will meet to watch the film Burnt by the Sun, in Russian with English subtitles in the 900
Room 9 p.m.

Coffeehouse will wake you up in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m.

The Winter Solstice, a part of the Artists Series, will feature three premier recording artists who perform unique holiday programs
in Love Auditorium 8:15 p.m.

Jumpin’ Java gets you ready to study (or sleep) in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Twenty-one Year Old Night is where you will find the “of age” upperclassmen in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m. -
12:30 a.m.

The Mask Dance of Korea, another part of the Artists Series, features 12 of Korea’s leading dancers and musicians from
the Korean Traditional Performing Arts Center in Seoul. Love Auditorium 8:15 p.m. $8 student/$12 adult admission.

Rebel Without a Cause will be showing in the 900 Room 9:30 p.m. - 11:30 p.m.

Carl and Harold Elliot speak on “The Tyranny of Happiness: Prozac and the Meaning of Life” in Chambers Gallery 7
p.m.

Filmmakers John Fuegi and Jo Francis will show Red Ruth and The War Within at 7:30 p.m. in Perkins Auditorium

Coffeehouse perks you up in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 1:15 a.m.

F.A.C. Pub will be in the 900 Room 4:30 p.m. - 8 p.m.

Rebel Without a Cause will be shown again in the 900 Room 8 p.m. - 10 p.m.

Dan Sanders, a hypnotist, will be in the 900 Room 9:30 p.m. - 11 p.m.

Jumpin’ Java could begin/end your week well in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Jeffery! We miss your pizza. Please get well soon.
