THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

The Week of December 2-8

Outpost Poetry Reading will take place in the Outpost 8:30 p.m. - 10 p.m.

Coffeehouse gets your morning started in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.

Jumpin’ Java means good coffee and good conversation in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Tree Lighting Ceremony will get the holidays started early on Chambers Lawn 10 p.m. - 11 p.m.

Bill Giduz

Left to Right: Philippa Finch, Josh Gaffga, and Dom Talvacchio in “Strange Snow.”

That Wondrous Strange Snow

Twenty One Year Old Night is where you will find many upperclassmen (who possess two valid IDs) in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Drama production explores the horror of the Vietnam War

By WILL RAGLAND
Staff Writer

Last week the Davidson College Theatre Department presented Strange Snow, a play by Stephen Metcalfe, in the Black Box Theatre. It centers around three characters, two friends trying to cope with a painful past and one of the friend’s sister, who has her own set of problems. The story is set in the Midwest, in the early 1980s, on opening day of the fishing season. There is a “wondrous strange snow” on the ground. The two friends’ names are Megs and David, both veterans of Vietnam who can’t escape the horror of an experience that has left a permanent impact on their lives. Martha is David’s sister and they live together in their childhood home. Martha is a school teacher and lives a sad, reclusive life. The story is one of change, reconciliation, discovery, and love.

I found this play to be truly moving and emotionally powerful. The acting was superb and the set was impressive as well. It was definitely a play centered on the individual characters, one that focused on relationships between humans and how our lives can be shaped by past experiences. The play had so much feeling and artistic qualities that added to its overall excellence. It made one really think about the lives of these people and how they were changed in the context of a day.

Josh Gaffga played the part of Megs, a zany truck driver who was sometimes called Jackknife. Josh’s portrayal of Megs was commendable. Josh was both comically entertaining and touching at times. He took the character to its fullest extent and did it well. In his character was a man trying to embrace his past and live beyond the pain that had affected his life in so many ways. He came to visit his friend and go fishing on opening day. Megs was full of enthusiasm and friendliness. He loved people, especially his old Vietnam pal Davy. Megs was always cracking jokes, dancing around, planning to do fun things, and remembering good times. As the play developed, Megs’ inner struggles were revealed and his air of happiness was often a wall behind which lay the emotional scars of war and death. Inside was conflict, a battle Megs was trying to win, and trying to overcome.

Dominick Talvacchio playedDavid, a depressed drinker whose life has been destroyed by his experiences in Vietnam. Dominick did an excellent job playing the part of David. He convincingly portrayed a man overcome by his past. He showed in his character the intense conflict that had shaped his life. David was a person who was drinking his life away, verbally abusing his hard-working sister and showing malice towards all, even his friend Megs. He continuously dwelled on his accomplishments in high school and his failure as a man. His relationship to Megs was interesting. He outwardly hated him because Megs was such a physical symbol of the pain that was burdening his life, but eventually their relationship became one of reconciliation.

Philippa Finch played the part of Martha, David’s lonely sister. Philippa’s portrayal of Martha was equally impressive. She showed in her character a woman who lived a disappointing life, having to deal with both her spiteful brother and her own personal failures. Her life was one of endless monotony until Megs came onto the scene and gave her an opportunity for change. She was never a pretty or popular girl and always stood in the shadows. She hated herself and her shortcomings and had decided to settle for a lonely life. Megs became the doorway through which Martha could find the person she wanted to be. In spite of her brother’s discouraging words and warnings, she persisted in changing her outlook on life and her physical appearance. She found acceptance and love in Megs and began to discover her own beauty through him.

The play left me with a sense of reflection as I thought about the symbolic and conflicting aspects of it. It told a story that enveloped the concepts of human interaction, soul-searching, and rebirth. It was truly a play that took the audience on an emotional roller coaster. It was excellent in the way it took on many of the complexities of life in a simple way. It was a story worth telling and the actors’ portrayal of it was something to be applauded.

WEDNESDAY
Drugstore Cowboy will be showing in the 900 Room 9:30 p.m.
Chess Club meets in the Union Conference Room 9:30 p.m. - 11 p.m.
Crop Lunch serves you in the 900 Room 11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m.
Coffeehouse gets you through Friday in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.
Drugstore Cowboy will be shown again in the 900 Room 8 p.m.
Saturday Night Live will liven up your weekend in the 900 Room 8 p.m. - 12 midnight.
Conway in Concert will take place in the Outpost 11 p.m. - 1 a.m.
Jumpin’ Java will give you the caffeine needed to begin studying for upcoming exams in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Listen to WALT 1610 AM - Call 2471 with your praise.

Some shows ...
Beastiality: Mon. 8-10 p.m.
Pandamonium: Mon. 10-Midnight
Fallopia: Tues. 8-9 p.m.
Blues Jam: Fri. 10-Midnight
Phish Hour: Tues. 9-10 p.m.
The Big Beat: Wed. 7-8 p.m.