THE DAVIDSONIAN _OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1996. 9

FACULTY VOICE
Shelley Rigger Brown
Assistant Professor in Political Science

Taking Time Off?

Career Services is offering a seminar for seniors called “Taking Time Off.” Which makes me wonder, from what? It’s not
that I don’t understand the utility of the phrase; I just don’t like it. “Taking Time Off” makes life sound
like an express train. You get on when you start school at the age of five, and if you behave
yourself, you stay on until you arrive at the final stop 70 years later. If you must, you can make
a pit stop. Once. Briefly.

I prefer the idea of life as a local train, stopping at lots of stations, branching and turning and circling
back around. Maybe I’m defensive. I graduated from college in 1984. I started graduate school in 1988. I guess you
could say I took four years off. But to me, those years counted for at least as much as any
others.

What did I do in my four years of branching and turning and circling back? I taught seventh and eighth
grade, and wrote newsletters for environmental groups. I lived in two beautiful, fascinating, terrifying cities: New Haven and Boston. I
shared six different houses and apartments with 12 different people, including a few whose names I don’t even remember. I
lived alone. I survived a flat tire in the dark at rush hour two days before Christmas on the New
York thruway just outside the Bronx with the car full of packages. I escaped from muggers. I subsisted on $8,000
(that was the salary at my first full-time job). Good practice for grad school. I paid off my student loans.
I experienced the bliss of real vacations: no pressure, no projects, no dissertation, no publications to work on — just
free time. I look forward to enjoying this again, after I retire.

I figured out that I liked teaching, but that the kinds of challenges that would keep me going for 30
years were not the ones I would face in a seventh grade classroom. I met my best friend in the
world. I found the love of my life. I tasted the lifestyles of the rich and famous in Manhattan with
a band of vagabond Irish housesitters on the lam from the INS. I got in shape for the first and
last time. I traveled to England (twice), Europe and Mexico. And California. I learned my way around Montreal. I owned
my first car. I recovered from college enough to appreciate grad school when I finally got there. When I did
get there, I found myself happier and more balanced than many of my classmates. And I finished my degree in
record time.

If you had asked me at this time in 1984 what I wanted to be doing in 1996, my answer
would have been “teaching Chinese politics, probably at a college.” Evidently, I didn’t need to take time off. But without
those four years, I might be doing the same job I am now, but my life would be poorer in
exactly every other way.

Sex, women, and MTV

I believe in the feminist movement and its value to society. Because of my involvement in this movement and my
mindset, I tend to overemphasize and analyze societal influences on our cultural beliefs and norms concerning women. At the same
time, I fail to recognize many influences because of the context in which they are presented and/or simply their widespread
acceptance and common appearance in society. MTV is one of these influences which I have seemingly overlooked. But just like
movies, books, and television shows, the images MTV presents are watched and digested by a general audience and have at
least some impact on our view of the world.

I watched a documentary on MTV and its presentation of women in society, and what I saw was very disturbing.
It provoked many new thoughts and questions that I had not considered before, the main one being that the idea
of sexual imagery in music influences sexual interactions between genders. All of the clips in this film, Dreamworlds 2, were
taken from recent, popular music videos and advertisements. They were shocking, unbelievable and at times disgusting. My thoughts were divided,
wondering if how MTV depicted women was really influential in the development of gender and sexual identities, if this information
that the video presented was useful in any way, if I personally believed that the scenes presented were harmful and
degrading. The last was the most critical to me. How did I feel about what I had just seen?

Lately, I have found myself wondering if women really are subjected by men, pushed into a submissive role in order
for men to retain their power position. I know that bias still exists, but legally we share equal status. This
film’s intent was to show how male fantasies of women have become mainstream, how these fantasies of violence and bodily
objectification and submission are accepted and liked. It was all so evident, but still I wondered how this really affects
us, me. Is it really a big deal? Everything around us influences the way we think — the books we
read, the songs we hear, the people by whom we are surrounded, the religion we follow, etc. I hate the
fact that women have such low body images. I hate that everyone feels the need to lose weight and achieve
some set societal ideal. I hate that we diet and shop and primp all to look good, to get noticed.
Why do we do it? It’s a game we play to succeed in the world. And MTV just contributes to
this already overwhelming image of the ideal female beauty. It shows the women men want. And this influences the way
we think of ourselves and the way others regard us. MTV shows women in a submissive, male-dependent role, and this
only reinforces the already existing stereotypes that tradition and the media scream.and the media scream. MTV did not create these
stereotypes, and it is not the main force keeping women in their so-called subordinate position, but it does reinforce them
and further ingratiate them in our minds. Sex has been shown to sell, but is it what we really want
to buy into? I do not particularly like being judged solely on my looks. I honestly like to be noticed,
I think we all do. But I, by no means, want that to be the basis of a relationship. I
do not want myself or any woman to be thought of as always wanting sex and willing to take whatever
she can get. I do not want young boys to watch these videos and see the sexual violence and think
that it is the norm in a relationship. And these are the images that MTV presents.

Women are not a sum of their parts. We are beautiful for many other reasons than the size of our
breasts or our sexual prowess. Neither submission nor masochism is erotic. But MTV only displays the opposite of these ideals.
It misrepresents women, and in doing so interferes with our ability to define our own sexual identity and to have
normal gender interactions.

Just Say No to BYOB

The most common phrase uttered by seniors in the past few weeks other than, “I have no idea what I
am doing next year,” is “I am so glad we are almost out of here.” We, the class of 1996,
have seen a lot of changes at Davidson; we remember a time when SAE was off campus, Beach Weekend existed,
the “good ol’ days” before the alcohol policy, and we used clickers to get in the dorms. Now they give
us wristbands, we have a fantastic basketball team, voice mail runs our lives, and the smoking room is a figment
of imagination. Who knew? If you had told me three years ago that the keg would become a relic and
that Davidson would move towards BYOB, I would have laughed in your face. I am not laughing now.

I am tempted to join the ranks of the graduated and undisturbed. Like most of my classmates, I want to
leave the small problems of fraternity/eating house business behind; I wish that I could put all of the policy changes
that are going to occur next year out of my mind. Unfortunately, I think the changes that are currently in
the planning stages mean more to Davidson than any senior realizes. Yes, we are almost out of here, but are
we excused from caring what happens when we are gone?

The BYOB system would radically change the social scene at Davidson. Why would anyone, 21 or not, go to a
party with two cops, risk managers, and everyone carrying their own beer? Parties will move to the apartments and off
campus; drinking will move into dorm rooms, and road trips to other schools will increase. Not only will there be
an increase in drunk driving and fake IDs, but Davidson will lose something that is much more valuable than any
“crazy” party scene. Davidson will lose the concept of open parties. If a house wants to have a function with
alcohol provided by the house, they will have to take up a collection. Homecoming, Spring Frolics, Christmas Cocktails, and F.A.C.’s
will be huge hassles of finding out who has paid and who hasn’t. Brotherhoods and Eating House members-only functions will
increase. Not only will the new policy strain relations between Patterson Court members and independents, but interaction between underclassmen and
people over 21 in a social setting will end. Twenty-one-year-olds will go to bars and underclassmen will stay in their
rooms or go off campus. If we go off campus, not only will the community grow to dislike the parties,
but parties will be a lot less safe.

I am not implying that we are a campus of alcoholics and that without beer provided we will not venture
out of our rooms, but people drink at Davidson, and that is a reality that will not change. I can
probably count on my fingers the number of court beers I have had in the past two years, but I
go to Patterson Court to see the Davidson populous. I go to the court to see people I wouldn’t call
up, I go to dance, and, yes, I go because there isn’t much else to do around here. The BYOB
proposal will go into effect next fall if the trustees pass it — plans for a new Union (which would
give us something else to do) are scheduled for after the new Life Sciences Building — in other words, around
the year 2000.

Small changes are necessary. I understand the keg issue. I think of it in the same way I think of
the newly erected chain fences around campus. We are killing the grass. So, throw down some straw and a chain
held up by two fence poles and perhaps half of the traffic will actually use the paths. The other half
will just step on the straw and over the chain. As a senior, I do not want to come back
in ten years and find out that the Court is a thing of the past. The Court is very far
from perfect, but it is something that Davidson students, graduated or current, have in common. I think that radically changing
the system to BYOB will ultimately kill the Court and result in a much more dangerous and less integrated social
scene at Davidson. It may not happen right away, but ten years from now it will. I don’t want that,
and I do not think it is best for Davidson. We need to compromise with the administration about a new
policy that might work at Davidson. I hope that by the time I leave, a plan will emerge that will
not result in great detrimental changes. If not, “I’m so glad to be out of here.” We have a social
scene that may not be the best around, but we don’t drive drunk, everyone is invited, and there are cops,
risk managers, and sober monitors everywhere.
