‘SIS NEWS

Order of Omega

The Omicron Gamma chapter of Order of Omega has existed at Davidson for just two years. The National Order of
Omega was established in 1959 in an effort to recognize outstanding members of the Greek community for their support of
the Greek system. Today, Davidson’s Omicron Gamma chapter is one of over 300 in the country.

Students selected for membership in the Omicron Gamma chapter of the Order of Omega will be inducted in a ceremony
in Phi Hall on Sunday, December 15. They include:

Jean Boehmler Warner Hall
Liz Boehmler Warner Hall
Eric Borgstrom Phi Gamma Delta
Jacob Darling Sigma Phi Epsilon
Tripp Franklin Sigma Phi Epsilon
Allison Good Connor
Jennifer Hawkins Warner Hall
Chrissie Hudson Connor
Colin Kelly Sigma Phi Epsilon
Catherine Kendrick Connor
Jason Schmidt Pi Kappa Alpha
Erin Smith Rusk
Rix Threadgill Sigma Phi Epsilon
Tom Vanderbloemen Sigma Phi Epsilon

COME HEAR CONWAY

AT THE OUTPOST

SATURDAY, DECEMBER 7TH, AT 8 PM

THEY'RE PUNK ROCKIN’!

Campus Question

By ALLISON DOLPH
Staff Writer

Sometimes a visit to Belk computer lab is like a trip to the sauna.

People hover over computer screens with flushed faces and unbuttoned collars. Why are the computer labs so hot?

Currently, one air conditioning unit is supplying both the basement computer lab and the first-floor dormitory above. The massive amount
of BTUs released by the computers and student-users require a lot of air conditioning to compensate.

The current sharing arrangement is not working.

The problem was first noticed when the heat was turned on in Belk dormitory. Physical Plant studied the problem for
a couple of days, trying to determine the best route to take. According to Phillip Cashion, Associate Director of Operations
and Maintenance, a separate unit has been ordered and will soon be installed in the Belk lab.

Why are the computer labs so hot?

Lydia Lorenzin, Coordinator of Academic Facilities and Services, says the extreme heat makes her more concerned for the people than
for the computers. Short-term high temperatures should not have a detrimental effect on the computers, but the lab is an
unpleasant work environment for both computer staff and students. Moreover, leaving the door open to let in cool air also
lets in dust and humidity, both of which may harm the computers.

Lorenzin says that Physical Plant has been “very helpful” in dealing with this problem.

There is some uncertainty now about when the new unit will be installed.

Preferably, the unit will be put in when there are no students using the lab, since the noise and plaster
may be bothersome.

However, if the unit does not get installed over Thanksgiving, students may have to bear the heat until Christmas. Physical
Plant will also be looking into temperature problems in the basement Chambers computer lab.

Will Nolen
Junior Kate Stevens is hot and bothered in the computer center.

The Duchess Nail, Hair & Tanning Salon
Full service salon for women & men

892-7030

“THE DAVIDSON NAIL BOUTIQUE”

"Best Prices in Town"

Nails
manicures * pedicures in European spa pedicure chair
acrylic * gels * tips * fiberglass

Tanning
"Hottest Bulbs in Town"

$4.00 per session * $33.00 for 10 sessions
$43.00 for 15 sessions * $50.00 for 20 sessions

Treat yourself...you deserve it
Ask for Connie, Michelle, or Susan

RedKen Hair Products & more...

Located 1/2 mile south of Davidson College Campus
20700 N. Main St.

ICEHOUSE

ART * ANTIQUES * GARDEN ACCESSORIES

416 SOUTH MAIN STREET * DAVIDSON, NC

(704) 895-1277

Visit Us During "Christmas In Davidson" To See Our Unique Handcrafted Gifts.

Come hear “poetry of the spirit” at the Outpost on December 2nd.

Write for The Davidsonian
Call Kirsten or Randy, 2148
