2 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, APRIL 22, 1996

NEWS

Will your department be offering minors next year?

MINORS

How do you feel about religion at Davidson? In light of all the controversy recently, students are holding an open
forum on religion in Phi Hall Wednesday at 8:30 p.m. Freshman Julie O’Connor, Sophomore Sara Gephardt, Junior Seth Clippard, Junior
Matt Rich, Sophomore Eric Sapp, Chaplain Rob Spach, and Junior IVCF president, Macon Stoke, will speak on a panel.

Presidential Search Committee takes first steps

The Presidential Search Committee, whose 19 members include staff, faculty, students, and administrators, has recently approached the Academic Search Consultation
Service, a firm based in Washington D.C., for help in the presidential search process. The firm will be concerned with
reference verifications, among other procedures. However, the Search Committee will attend to all application reviews and candidate interviews.

Dorm Storm results compiled

Dorm Storm, the ongoing SGA project detailing student opinions on various issues, is complete. Freshman Senator Jonathan Sipling, who has
led the Dorm Storm effort from its earliest stages, announced at Tuesday’s SGA meeting that all Senatorial reports had been
compiled. Warren Buford, SGA President, told the Senate that the Dorm Storm final report is an interesting document worth looking
over. “It’s 13 pages of nothing but specific and general student concerns,” he said.

National Service Day scheduled for Tuesday

National Youth Service Day, Tuesday, April 23, is dedicated to the union of our campus and community. Students have the
opportunity to serve in four ways: spring cleaning at the Senior Nutrition Center, cricket with kids from the community on
Chambers lawn at 4:30, working at the Habitat House, and Bone Marrow Screening. In addition to the service component of
this day, there will be a community dinner at the Ada Jenkins Center at 6 p.m. The Ada Jenkins Center
is located across the tracks (take Depot Street, follow the bend to the left which runs in front of the
Ada Jenkins Center). All students are welcome free of charge. Please come and support our effort to bring our college
closer to the surrounding community.

Widely recognized poet Gerald Stern to speak Tuesday

Gerald Stern, an American poet and recipient of numerous awards, including a Guggenheim Fellowship, PEN Award, and multiple National Endowment
for the Arts Grants, will read selections from his most recent poetry on Tuesday, April 23, at 7:30 p.m. in
the 900 Room of the Union. The author of 11 books of poetry, Stern will also present the Vereen Bell
Memorial Awards for Creative Writing to Sophomore, Junior, and Senior Class recipients.

Source: College Relations Office

Guatemalan human rights advocate and massacre survivor to speak

Forty-year-old Carlos Chen, a Guatemalan Maya, and survivor of a 1982 massacre in that country, will speak on “Living Beyond
the Massacres: Our Struggle For Change in Guatemala” on Tuesday, April 23 at 7 p.m. in the Morrison Room of
the Union. A former teacher and community leader, Chen lost a pregnant wife and two children in the 1982 massacre.
After years in hiding, Chen has resumed leadership as a human rights advocate. Funded by the United States, Chen is
gathering testimony from survivors of the massacres in order to create a written historical record of their experiences. In addition,
his group is involved in exhuming mass graves of massacre victims to provide burial in cemeteries.

If only they’d worn their seat belts

North Carolina’s law enforcement officers netted more than seat belt violations during their seven-day “Click it or Ticket” campaign. 576
checkpoints across the state resulted in over 5,000 seat belt citations, as well as a wide range of other interesting
violations, 23,928 in all. The campaign’s charges include 718 drug charges, 15 stolen vehicles, and 7 fugitives from justice. The
campaign also netted 1,096 driving while impaired charges. As the results of “Click it or Ticket” prove, it pays to
buckle up.

Source: Governor's Highway Safety Program

Athletic Policy: Clair Freeman

The committee discussed the smoothness of the NCAA certification process — usually it takes a year, but for us it
only took two months with few recommendations. They also presented the Self-Study focus report, which expressed many positive things about
the athletic program in addition to a recommendation for more intramural support. The Belk arena floor renovations will be finished
by June 1, and improvements to outdoor courts have been made to compensate for the lack of indoor courts this
spring. We are among the finalists tohosts a Women's World Cup Soccer game in the summer of 1999. We will
also host the first and second Round Games of the 1997 NCAA Men's Basketball Championship at the Charlotte Colosseum next
March.

Council for Campus and Religious Life: Warren Buford
The committee talked about Davidson Outdoors and how successful it is. They will be offering a summer program that will
be longer than they have been in the past. The Careers Office presented a senior survey that showed what the
class of 1995 is doing. They listed the twelve recommendations of the self-study and discussed the banning of kegs extensively.
The committee voted to ban kegs and tabled a resolution that recommended longer serving hours on the court.

TRUSTEE COMMITTEES

The department will not offer minors.
Verna Case, Biology
By and large, this department is in favor of minors.
Mitch Rhea, Chemistry
We are going to try and pursue it. There has been talk about a concentration also.
Michael Toumazou, Classics
They are likely, but we are still in discussions.
Clark Ross, Economics
We probably will, but we need to meet with the teacher education committee. Many of our courses are already cross-listed
with other departments, also. So, we still need to work on clarifications.
Grace Mitchell, Education
The English department has not yet formally discussed minors, but intends to do so.
Anthony S. Abbot, English
We have taken the lead in the French department! Within hours of the faculty vote, a French Minor proposal was
in the hands of the EPC. The department hopes to offer minors next fall.
Charles D. Dockery, French
The department has discussed minors and plans to introduce a minor in German as well as Russian. Currently, no departmental
major is offered in Russian. Japanese will not boast a minor, but will be incorporated into the future East Asian
Studies Concentration.
Mark R. McCulloh, German
The department has held no formal discussions as of yet.
Malcolm O. Partin, History
Two permanent department members are on leave this year, and consequently, the department feels that it’s premature to make much
more in the way of detailed plans, though we are seriously discussing [minors].
Benjamin J. Klein, Mathematics
Minors are currently being discussed within the department. We plan to propose a minor.
Lance Stell, Philosophy
The Physics department hasn’t discussed [minors] one way or another. I don’t know when we will or if we will.
Laurence S. Cain, Physics
My feeling is we won’t offer minors. We are already short-staffed and are having difficulty servicing majors as it is.
Edward L. Palmer, Psychology
We have not yet discussed the issue of minors.
David R. Kaylor, Religion
Yes, we will offer minors.
Luis H. Pena, Spanish
The department has not been able to discuss the actual structure of a Theatre minor. We do have plans to
do so since this is something the students obviously want, and to make every attempt to offer one, but we
don’t know how or when that could be done.
Joseph Gardner, Theater

The Davidsonian was not able to reach the anthropology, music, political science, and sociology departments.

Admissions and Financial Aid: Missy Graves
The committee reviewed the statistics from the class of 2000 and reviewed the distribution of financial aid for that class
as well. They looked at how recruiting went and discussed reviewing the gap in financial aid for the last three
years. They looked at fundraising and donating strategies.

Buildings and Grounds: Katherine Hash
The committee extensively discussed plans for the new life sciences building, which has been scaled back so the college can
afford it. There was supposed to be an atrium between the two buildings (the new one will be built in
front of the old one), and that is no longer in the plans. However, there will be some sort of
a plaza between the two like between the library and Chambers building. They are hoping to be able to break
ground in the Spring of 1997. The college is working on networking the entire campus and expects the project will
be complete in the next three years. The third floor of Martin Science Building is being renovated and should be
done by the end of the summer. The committee also announced that the golf course is being renovated; responsibility for
it was transferred back to the Physical Plant from the Athletic department. They will begin soon.
