6 THE DAVIDSONIAN ELSEWHERE MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1996

Elections 96

Election day: 15 days away

Bill Clinton
Polls, Oct. 18-19: 54% of vote
Highest poll in last two weeks: 57%
Lowest polls in last two weeks: 48%
Wednesday debate:

Bob Dole
Polls, Oct. 18-19: 35% of vote
Highest poll in last two weeks: 39%
Lowest polls in last two weeks: 32%
Wednesday debate:

Clinton promised he would balance the budget and protect Medicare, Medicaid, education, and the environment. He claimed that “Dole’s tax
scheme would blow a hole in the economy.” He responded to ethical charges by Dole: “I don’t want to respond
in kind for all of these things. I could. I could answer to all of these things tit for tat.
But I hope we can talk about the future. No attack ever created a job or educated a child, no
insult ever cleaned up a toxic waste dump or helped an elderly person.” He encouraged people to vote and reiterated
that the election is a choice between giving people the tools to succeed or saying, “You’re on your own.”

Dole attacked Clinton about “ethical problems in the White House today” and said that people have lost faith in government
because politicians are not delivering promises. He accused Clinton of having “scandals on a daily basis.” He also accused the
President of misrepresenting him on taxes, Medicare, and balancing the budget. He called for more debates, especially concerning the economy.
Answering a question about Presidential leadership, Dole said, “I keep my word. My word is my bond.” About Clinton, he
said, “The President doesn’t have any ideas so he is out trashing ours.”

Political Perspective

Homelessness and affordable housing
By Abe Artis
Guest Writer

Public housing was conceived by the legislative and executive branches in the hopes of providing clean, safe housing for those
who could not otherwise afford it. When first initiated in 1937, it was very successful, and many people who lived
in the projects went on to purchase their own homes. In 1951, residents of North Carolina’s Robert S. Jervay Place
(a public housing project) said that their neighborhood was drastically improved by the new projects. But over the years, public
housing has gone into a steady and miserable decline. Jervay has deteriorated so much that it is now slated for
demolition.

Congress and the President have both reevaluated the effectiveness of public housing in its current incarnation, and have come to
different conclusions as to possible solutions to the problems faced in some projects. Most Republicans believe public housing should cease
being directly provided and overseen by the government. Democrats largely favor a plan of revitalization and correction, while leaving fundamental
responsibility in the hands of the federal government.

In essence, the GOP proposes to privatize and dismantle the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), which oversees the
public housing projects. Public housing would in effect cease to exist, and some of the budget would be transformed into
individual rent vouchers with which impoverished families could supposedly find housing on their own. The rest would be converted to
block grants used for the community. Proponents of the GOP vouchers claim these vouchers would promote independence; a way out
of the “cycle of dependency.” However, this solution is short-sighted.

The Republicans assume that the private housing industry could dispense better housing more efficiently than the government. But slums and
dilapidated housing exist at least as prevalently in the private sector as in the public. In a 1993 survey of
all American households, the U.S. Census Bureau found that 4.9% had no working flush toilets some time in the last
3 months, and 7% were uncomfortably cold for 24 hours or more the winter before the survey. A HUD special
commission found about 6% of public housing to have the same or worse conditions. Rent vouchers could easily become subsidies
for private sector slumlords. And if the federalgovernment relinquishes any direct supervision, the ability to make direct change is nullified.
In contrast, most Democrats advocate policies (some of which have already begun) of public housing renewal, not elimination. In a
June 1996 report, HUD summarized the major initiatives to be undertaken: “Replacement of the worst public housing developments with less
dense, economically integrated developments...to correct chronic management and operational deficiencies... Infuse public housing with positive incentives that reward responsible residents
who commit themselves to achieving self-sufficiency; and impose tougher expectations that hold public housing residents accountable for their actions.”

If these steps are implemented, abuse of the voucher system by unscrupulous private housing providers will not be an issue.
Renewed public housing takes into consideration issues of economic and racial isolation (which have been found to be major contributors
to project crime and continued poverty), whereas private housing would not be consigned to vying for or begging disinterested or
corrupt landlords for attention they do not “deserve.” Government supervision also removes the profit motive which too often leads to
intense problems.

The majority Republican Congress has proposed to cut almost a billion from HUD Homeless Assistance Programs. The propositions for vouchers
and the belief that we should wash our hands of the projects, and the people in them, are also in
the crosshairs. If we adopt them, we are avoiding responsibility for a situation that we helped to create.
