6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Week in Washington

Clinton urges a new State of the Union — an “Age of Possibility”

By David Santschi
Washington Week Correspondent

Twice declaring that “the era of big government is over” and calling for a partnership between government and individual initiative,
President Clinton delivered his fourth State of the Union Address before a joint session of Congress Tuesday night.

“We must go forward as one America,” Clinton said as he urged businesses and families to assume more responsibility for
their communities. “To improve the state of our union, we must all ask more of ourselves. We must expect more
of each other, and we must face our challenges together.”

Clinton appealed directly to voters in his speech and avoided explicit criticism of the Republican-controlled Congress, which has slashed many
of his favorite programs and shut down the government twice to force him to capitulate on budget negotiations.

“I compliment the Republican leadership and membership for the energy and determination you have brought to this task,” Clinton said.
He deplored “division, discrimination, and rancor” and stressed the need for teamwork between both parties. However, he lectured Congress to
“never — ever — shut the federal government down again.”

Rather than focusing on recent Capitol Hill developments, Clinton concentrated the bulk of his speech on the future. He structured
his speech around a list of seven challenges that he believes America faces.

Borrowing many themes of conservatives, Clinton urged “parents to be their children’s first teachers.” He supported ratings for television programs
and the installation of “V” chips in televisions for parents to block out unwanted programming. Challenging the entertainment industry to
“improve what children see on television,” he offered to meet with network representatives personally next month to discuss the matter.

To provide “educational opportunity,” Clinton outlined an ambitious goal of connecting every classroom to the Internet by 2000. He repeated
his support for national teaching standards and called for the expansion of the work-study program from 700,000 to 1 million
students over the next five years. He proposed making $10,000 per year of college tuition tax-deductible and providing $1000 merit
scholarships for the top 5% of American high school students.

Clinton boasted that “our economy is the healthiest it has been in three decades.” He noted that eight million new
jobs have been created since he took office, while the combined rate of unemployment and inflation is at its lowest
point in 27 years. Still, he said “too many of our fellow citizens are working harder to keep ahead.” Clinton
called for a $2600 voucher for continuing education and job training, an increase in the minimum wage, and a tax
credit for working families. Clinton also asked for a bipartisan welfare-reform bill he could support and urged a national crusade
against teenage pregnancy.

Another major focus of his speech was “[taking] back our streets from crime, gangs, and drugs.” He reiterated his support
for the Brady Law and the Crime Bill of 1994 and urged the trying of teenagers who commit capital offenses
as adults. He asked housing authorities to evict convicted criminals and residents caught selling drugs.

In other matters, Clinton called on Congress to enact a bipartisan campaign finance reform bill and a line-item veto. While
criticizing Congress for reducing environmental protection funds, he appealed to communities and businesses to reduce pollution without new regulations.

Referring to Bosnia in particular, Clinton thanked members of the armed forces and hoped that the nation would not submit
to the “voices of isolation.” While the speech offered few new proposals, Clinton largely succeeded in painting himself as a
voice of reason above the political chaos of the past several months. His speech was conciliatory in many respects. Topics
such as television violence, parental responsibility, and cracking down on illegal immigration were borrowed from conservatives, and he avoided partisan
attacks.

President Clinton claimed that while he shares many overall Republican goals, he would achieve them with greater compassion.

Sources include: January 24 of The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal.

Dean Rusk Program

Yeltsin struggles to find steady ground amid crumbling state

By Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

This year will mark the first time in Russia’s history that it will truly have a taste of what democracy
is really like. This coming June, Russia will have its first real presidential election. Since Yeltsin came to power after
the failed coup in the old Soviet Union, he has been fighting to maintain his “man of the people” image
while trying to simultaneously guide Russia through post-Soviet turmoil and showthe rest of the world that Russia is truly becoming
more democratic. There have been many obstacles standing in his way. First, there has been the problem with the economy.
Making the change from a socialist government-run economy to a liberal capitalist economy has been difficult and is still far
from complete. Senior Economic Advisors and quick-fix economic policies than a person can count (the most recent casualty being the
Minister of the Economy, Anatoly Chubais). His problem is that change hurts, and the people who feel the pain and
discomfort of a changing economy are the voters. The voters forcefully expressed their discontent with Yeltsin’s reforms most recently this
last December by giving the communist party the majority of seats in Russia’s Parliament. Yeltsin’s biggest problem, however, is that
he has no real support group, and so he is stuck trying to appeal to them all. Yeltsin is not
liberal enough to satisfy the liberals nor conservative enough to satisfy the conservatives. As a result, he simply takes turns
pacifying one group after another. His recent actions in Chechnya seem to indicate (as Yeltsin has gone through more many
analysts have suggested) that with the elections quickly approaching, Yeltsin has decided that if he is to be re-elected, he
will have to have the support of the right-wing nationalists. His foreign policies, both in Bosnia and more recently in
Chechnya, seem to confirm this theory. To the West, Russia’s changing political scene is like the proverbial rock and a
hard place. Very few people in the West believe that the re-emergence of communism is anything but trouble. The problem
is that the second most powerful group at this moment in Russian politics are the ultra-nationalists of the Liberal Democratic
Party. One surveying the Russian political scene can see the spot Yeltsin has found himself. There is no middle ground
to stand on. If Yeltsin hopes to be re-elected, he must pick a side — and even then there are
never any guarantees in politics.

Write for The Davidsonian. Call us at -2148.

MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 1996

They Should Really Pay Professors More

An art professor at Texas A&M University resigned in December after police said he offered to give a student an
A in exchange for $100. Jose Martinez, on faculty with the university for more than 15 years, was arrested after
he accepted money from freshman Christopher Cruz, who was wired to campus police. The incident started a week before when
Martinez announced to his class that he was collecting art portfolios for a final grade. Cruz, who could not find
his portfolio, said his professor offered to overlook that fact in exchange for $100. Acting on the advice of his
friends, he approached the professor again, this time with a hidden tape recorder. According to the university police chief, “Cruz
told Martinez that he didn’t have the money. So, the professor lowered the price to $50.” Martinez was promptly arrested
by the South Texas Drug Force after accepting an envelope containing the $50 from Cruz. He acted like he had
no idea what was happening. Martinez was charged with bribery, a second-degree felony, and has pleaded innocent. If convicted, he
faces a maximum 10-year sentence or $10,000 fine.

Historical Tabloids

Forget the grocery store checkout counter. To history fans, the nation’s most exciting tabloid may be one published in a
150-year-old brick farmhouse on the fringe of Amish country in Pennsylvania. When the tabloid, Old News, headlines an article, “Greek
Philosopher Faces Death Penalty” (Socrates) and dates it 399 B.C. no one complains about staleness. Other eye-catching headings: “King of
England Tried for Treason” (Charles I, 1649); “Sitting Bull Predicts Victory for the Indians” (1876); “President’s Wife Accused of Bigamy”
(Rachel Jackson); or “Surviving Titanic Crewman Describes Wreck: Blames Sea Monster for Disaster” (1912). “We never have to go digging
for our dirt,” says publisher Richard Bromer. “We just look it up in the encyclopedia.” -College Press Service -Orlando Sentinel

GET READY FOR SPRING BREAK

NEW TAN RATES
$4.00 PER SESSION
10 sessions for $33.00
15 sessions for $43.00
20 sessions for $50.00
Monthly Unlimited for $49.00

Located at the Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St., Cornelius
(704) 892-7030

Sculptured Nails • French Manicures • Pedicures
TREAT YOURSELF TODAY!

National Eating Disorders Awareness Week

Monday Feb. 5: 7:30 p.m., Carolina Inn, "What Helps? Personal Accounts," Students, Dr. DeWitt Crosby and Georgia Ringle
Wednesday Feb. 7: 7:30 p.m., Visual Arts Lecture Hall, "The Very Skinny Woman In The Expensive Clothes: Images of Women
In Advertising," Dr. Nina Serebrennikov
February 5-9: The Student Counseling Center will offer free screening for Eating Disorders, daily 9-12 noon
