OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 1996

Rob Vogelbacher

Uninspired speculation

I admit that I am confused. In between fiestas on the court, battles with my Organic Chemistry book, and picking
change out of the couch for Papa John’s, a seemingly insolvable dilemma has wormed its way into my consciousness. Is
there a God?

Last week’s “Inspired Rambling” professes the affirmative position. Indeed, it appears that Kevin Ager has found the meaning of life,
or at least the ability to rationalize failure through the belief in a higher being. He claims, “there is absolutely
no meaning on earth without God. The entire universe means nothing without a greater purpose.” Hmm ... I am not
too sure how to interpret that statement. What’s the “meaning” of life is like asking what is the “meaning” of
a cup of coffee. What is meant by the fact that I have brown hair, am 5’ 8’’, and enjoy
Kool and the Gang? Surely the existence of God doesn’t give meaning to funky music? Or does it ...? Does
“meaning” imply purpose or function? Coffee serves to alleviate a caffeine craving. Music soothes the savage beast. Darwin would argue
the meaning of life is to reproduce.

Again, Ager’s words struck a discordant note on the strings inside my brain: “without faith nothing has meaning, and we
as humans measure ourselves, feel ...” Or would faith be defined as belief without supporting evidence or proof? It seems
the religious construct of faith is used to circumvent the normal modality of reason and the rational. Some people may
liken faith in God to faith in the existence of unicorns. It takes an infinite amount of observations to prove
a hypothesis or theory correct, yet only one to prove it false. So this is why I take the latter
position. Until a unicorn is detected somewhere, I am going to believe that they don’t exist. Only one instance is
needed to prove me wrong.

Some people may liken faith in God to faith in the existence of unicorns ... Until a unicorn is detected
somewhere, I am going to believe that they don’t exist. By absence of faith, does one mean a group or
collection of core beliefs (e.g. the Catholic or Presbyterian Faith)? Certainly, scientists base their lives on this kind of reasoning.
Mathematics rests on the foundation of several, unprovable axioms. Physicists believe Einstein’s conjecture that the laws of nature are the
same in all inertial reference frames. We can search the world over and never find a unicorn. Have we truly
looked everywhere? Maybe Mr. Unicorn hides in the bushes when we come searching. Just because we can’t find a unicorn
doesn’t clearly indicate that they don’t exist. Trying to prove the existence of God or of the unicorn proves to
be an insurmountable, exhaustive task.

Suppose instead of an ordinary college student with a strange sense of humor, I was Super Rob, the indestructible, the
invincible giant robot. If I never needed food, and nothing could ever hurt me, then nothing in the world would
be of any value. The fact that I am not Super Rob - that I can be hurt and have
certain necessities for living - implies a system and hierarchy of values. My values thus stem from biological necessity, the
environment in which I was raised, the values society has deemed important, and a conscious effort to find truth in
the world.

Is it sufficient to then live life for its own sake? Can life be interpreted as a goal or end
in itself? It is a natural human tendency to look for “meaning” or “purpose” in random events. However, it is
by no means obvious that life is the sort of thing that has so-called meaning. Why rationalize failure, inequality, and
self-doubt with a higher, ultimate purpose? Maybe I would feel different if I had read the Dec 3rd issue of
Parade magazine. The fact that I am alive, and enjoy living is reason enough for me to live. I am
not claiming to have all the answers to this question, merely that I am searching for them. Certainly, others here
at Davidson are looking, too.

Jonathan Hutzley

I was a teenage Russian

I had never spent any significant amount of time outside the US before in my life. My first-hand experiences with
other cultures mainly consisted of contacts I had with the international students at college — quite a few of whom
I am friends with. However, given the fact that I attend Davidson, this was rather small-scale introduction to other cultures.
To quench my thirst for adventure to foreign lands, I decided to study in Russia for a semester. I had
already taken two years of Russian at Davidson, so I had a good base of preparation. However, no amount of
preparation could have prepared me fully for what I experienced last semester. It was so thrilling to be able to
see so many parts of the Russian culture as well as its modern livelihood. I saw how Russia is coping
with its conversion from the Soviet Union to a modern, democratic society. At times it was exciting, and at times
it was scary.

While studying for a month in St. Petersburg, I got my first inkling at just how rich some of the
nouveau-riche of Russia have become since the decentralization of the economy. Along Nevsky Prospekt, which is St. Petersburg’s answer to
Fifth Avenue in New York...York, I saw many swanky and chic shops, restaurants, and bars. In the streets in front
of these shops, BMWs and Mercedes-Benz were the cars of choice for many of their patrons. To my surprise, many
of these shops had guards with three-piece suits standing in front of the doors of the shops. Any time I
tried to enter one of these places just to look (due to the fact that many of these places had
prices that would have made the czars who used to live in St. Petersburg blanch), I was stopped and the
guards interrogated me. Oftentimes, my less-than-pretty Russian usually led them to deduce that I was just a confused foreigner rather
than a hit-man.

However, with the winners, there are inevitably people who lose out on some opportunities. As I studied in Moscow for
four months, it seemed at every turn there were old women or legless veterans begging. These poor souls are the
victims of the social net which was ripped out from underneath them when the Soviet Union collapsed. Pensions are now
one-fourth of what they once were. It broke my heart every single time I saw a woman who could have
very well been my grandmother out begging for money. Perhaps this is why many people actually want the Communists to
return to power.

As a Political Science major, one of my goals for coming to Russia was to gain a decent knowledge of
the current political life in Russia. In the United States, my knowledge of politics in Russia extended little beyond Communists,
Boris Yeltsin, and Vladimir Zhirinovsky thrown in for comic relief. Perhaps I got a better insight into it than at
other times since Russia was counting down to its parliamentary election on December 17. In the election, there were 43
parties representing every “color” of the political spectrum. Of course, there were the Communists and Zhirinovsky’s badly named Liberal Democratic
Party. There were also more democracy-oriented parties such as the Yabloko (“apple” in Russian) party and the Democratic Choice of
Russia party. There was even a Beer Lovers’ Party and Generation X Party thrown in for good measure. This almost
makes the choice between the comparatively somewhat-liberal Democrats and the somewhat-conservative Republicans look boring. Even Russian TV aired numerous political
advertisements showing everything from the traditional “we will make life better” spot to a music video where a woman sings
the praises of Zhirinovsky to godawful music.

It soon dawned on me that the reason for all of this confusion and shouting is that everyone has a
different idea about how Russia should be run. Isn’t that better than the “one true way” of Communism during the
days of the Soviet Union? Even though the Communists did win the parliamentary elections, I do not think that they
will stymie the growth of democracy in Russia. I feel that it has already taken too strong of a root
for it to be weeded out without much trouble. People are simply discontented with the state of their lives and
the struggle to stay ahead. Like all angry voters, they want to “throw the bums out.” Unfortunately, there are only
so many sets of bums. So, after throwing out the Communists in 1991 for Yeltsin, and throwing out the reformers
for nationalists like Zhirinovsky in 1993, they feel that they have no choice but to return to the Communists. This
is despite the fact that the Revolution is quite dead.

Religion is back in Russia in full force after being suppressed by the Soviet Union. Even the Communists now have
a pro-religion plank in their platform. When I observed the Communist parade here on Revolution Day, the crowd consisted of
particularly unexciting middle-age to elderly people who seemed particularly devoid of the revolutionary fervor that one associates with Russia and
Communists. After a while, I was so bored and cold that I bought a cup of tea at that bastion
of capitalism — McDonald’s. What all of this shows is that old or young, rich or poor, angry or happy,
the tapestry of Russian culture is woven so tightly that these strains will not wrinkle it, let alone tear it
apart. Russia has undergone far worse strain in its long history. In Novgorod, Russia’s oldest city (although, ironically “Novgorod” means
“new city”), 30 people, out of an original population of 50,000, survived Germany’s occupation during World War II. In all
of Russia, 20,000,000 people died during this time (half at the hands of Stalin). Yet, at the center of Novgorod’s
Kremlin, there is a statue dedicated to the first 1,000 years of Russian culture from 886-1886. Many foes, foreign and
domestic, have tried to put an end to this culture. None have succeeded. I don’t think anyone ever will.

Pass/Fail from page 7

There is no reason not to allow him/her to receive that grade. Of course, that course would count as their
pass/fail for the semester or year, but if they did the work and put in the effort and did better
than they had expected, they should get the grade they earned. I propose that Davidson extend its pass/fail period to
5 or 6 weeks so students have the opportunity to get feedback in their classes and that we allow students
to drop the pass/fail grade and opt for the grade they earned at any time during the year. This would
be more fair and would encourage students to keep trying and not blow off classes. No one (faculty, administrators, or
students) has given any reason why my proposal should not be adopted and I would be interested to hear the
other side, if it exists.

Sincerely,
Eric Sapp '98
