SPORTS 14 MONDAY, APRIL 1, 1996

The Sports Authority: Left turns
By David Mortlock
Sports Columnist

It was 3 a.m. and I was eating an early breakfast in a Mocksville, NC diner. Staring at my plate of grits, I couldn’t help overhearing the conversation of three men sitting several seats away.

“Did you watch the race on Sunday? That youngster sure was something special. Made his car run like a beauty.”

Silence.

“Heck of a crash. Saw it coming the whole time. Bumper to bumper for a couple of laps.”

Pause.

“I’m glad so and so won cause he’s a real good fella. Real nice, ya know what I mean?”

The three men, all wearing race car shirts and billboard mesh hats, continued to talk about race car driving for the next hour until finally I decided I was tired, stood up, and left. Staring back into the diner, masked by the cold, dark night, I couldn’t help but notice the intense focus on each of the three faces. I was mystified by their love for race car driving. A love for a sport that has only one object: turn left. Turn left four times a lap for 500 laps. And if you need new tires or more gas, just turn left into the pit, but hurry up so you can be the first to turn left back onto the track. Any deviation from these simple rules puts the driver into a wall and, if he’s not lucky, into a hospital.

For a sport that lacks intense competitive moments, dramatic scoring drives, complexity, and a personal touch, the trio represented only the tiniest of portions of its true following. But what is it that drives people out to the racetrack, to watch races on TV, or to listen to them on the radio? What is it that drives three men at 3 a.m. in a truck stop diner in Mocksville to spend over an hour discussing “the race,” mesmerized by left turns, devastating crashes, and smooth running cars? What is it about race car driving?

The answer lies not within the sport but within the people who watch it. Race car driving binds the working-class citizens across this nation. It thrives on the bonds, the uniqueness, and the “this is our sport” mentality which it fosters. For these three men, all of whom entered that diner as complete strangers, race car driving was something they could share. These three men, whose early morning encounter embodies the relationships between millions of Americans, sat down quite aware that they were alone but also quite aware that they would stand up several hours later with two new friends, and two new bonds. And this confidence represents the sport’s appeal.

Confusion surrounds construction
Student body misinterprets timing and intentions of floor-raising project
By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

Rumors have been circulating through the campus community about the raising of the Belk Arena main floor and subsequent closing of the basketball courts for student use, but the Athletic Department contends that this project had to be done now due to the termination dates on the legal settlement allowing the construction to take place.

“When the building was built, there was a problem with the sight lines, and we (the architects, the temporary seating people, the arena structure people, and the college) came to the realization that the best option (for fixing the problems) was to raise the floor,” Assistant Athletic Director Robert Price said. “There have been many negotiations to come up with the best solution for all concerned, and we are up against a timeline. All the years of negotiation would be thrown out the window and we would have to start again (if this project is not done now),” he continued.

Still, many students, particularly those who regularly played pick-up basketball on the auxiliary courts in the arena, are upset with the lack of student involvement in making the decision and the suddenness of the construction. SGA president Warren Buford said he was not aware of the project until the day they began to pull up the floor. Co-chair of the SGA Council on Athletics Josh Roberts was also uninformed.

“My initial reaction was that I was upset,” Roberts said. “I like to go play ball, and I don’t have a chance now. But after the fact I can see it from their point of view and I understand it better. Selfishly, I would like to see it done in the summer, but realistically it can’t be done.”

Some other students are not so sure. Wes Jones, a Belk pick-up hoopster, said he didn’t understand why the construction couldn’t take place in the summer. Other students have cited the volleyball and basketball summer camps as the driving force behind the decision to start the project now. Price discredits that claim.

“If we didn’t start (construction) then the architects were going to bolt on the settlement,” Price said. “We would have put the camps elsewhere or offered to buy them out (if summer construction had been an option). Now that we have picked this time to do it we want to get it done before stuff (like camps), but we did not pick this time because of that.”

To help accommodate students wanting to play pick-up basketball and volleyball, theSGA has sent a memo to Athletic Director Jim Murphy asking for increased hours in Johnston gym, a schedule of those hours to be posted in Baker, Johnston, Chambers, the Union, and other places, for the outdoor basketball courts to be improved, and for sand to be put in the outdoor volleyball court behind Apartment F. “We fully intend to do the things listed in the memo,” Murphy said. “Next week we will be out painting backboards, hanging nets, posting times, and putting sand in the courts. And we will try to make Johnston gym as accessible as possible.”

Ron Morrow, who has been working with the Union staff to create a schedule for Johnston gym, says the building will be open from 9 a.m. to 10:45 p.m. Monday through Friday, from 1 p.m. to 7 p.m. on Saturday, and from 2 p.m. to 10:45 p.m. on Sunday. He also said that there would be some scheduled activities like team practices, but one court should always be open for student use except on Thursdays from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. when the Fellowship of Christian Athletes will be using the space. In addition, Price said that if construction on the main floor moves along rapidly enough then the auxiliary courts will open before the end of the year. “To use a bad pun, nothing is set in concrete,” he quipped. “If it (the upper courts) can be opened then we’ll do it.”

The floor itself is also being changed. According to Price, the old floor was state of the art when it was put in 8 years ago, but in that time new technology has developed the Bio-channel floor which is supposed to absorb more shock and be easier on the legs of athletes. Women's basketball coach John Filar, whose team suffered many injuries this year like stress fractures and shin splints, is excited about the new floor. “I’m very excited to see the reaction from the players. Everyone I talk to says it makes a world of difference on the players, and any pounding we can take off players’ legs will be great,” he said.

Roberts, despite his initial feeling of disenfranchisement, remained positive saying this should improve viewing of games, and that it was going to be a good thing in the long run. Price stressed, “People are trying to make the arena as good as they can. Kids need to look beyond two months and the inconvenience of construction and look ahead to the product and they'll love it.”

Crew gets their feet wet at Clemson Regatta
By JOSH PEKLO
Staff Writer

It took stolen oars, a crushed shell, a lot of donuts, and dirty cars, but two years and hundreds of 5:30 a.m. wake-up calls later, Davidson Crew has come of age. In April 1994, several members of the crew club decided to reshape the club from a recreational organization into a competitive team. This season has witnessed the realization of those goals.

On March 24th, the club scrimmaged the Catawba Yacht Club out of Charlotte. This provided an opportunity for the team to practice rowing against another crew on a new body of water. “We were able to pick up a lot of pointers from a group of skilled rowers,” said Derrick Miller.

The Clemson Sprints this Saturday provided an opportunity for the team members to put these coaching tips to use. The season will culminate on April 27th when the team travels to Washington, D.C. for the Capitol Classic Regatta. This regatta includes only new or small crew programs, making it perfect for Wildcat rowers. “We should fare better against the field of competition in Washington than we did in Clemson,” said student coach Jay Hinton.

In addition to early morning practices, the club hopes to continue fundraising for new equipment. Right now, the club owns two four-man shells, but when the eleven-person squad expands next fall, the team will need more shells. “In order to maintain the club’s rapid growth, we need to increase our equipment at the same rate as our membership,” said Allison Moore. “Competitive rowing is growing in the Southeast, and we are in an excellent position to grow with the region,” said Moore. “Clemson, Duke, and Vanderbilt were in our position several years ago and now they are large programs.”

For the fall season, the Wildcats plan to compete in Atlanta, Baltimore, and hopefully the prestigious Head of the Charles Regatta in Boston. When the club started aiming towards a competitive schedule, this regatta was seen as an ultimate goal. In the fall, the members who initiated intercollegiate competition will be seniors, and they plan to be in Boston on October 20th. “We have a firm idea of where we are as a team and which things we need to work on,” said Hinton. “The team works well together, and I expect only success in our future.”

HEIGHTS
Junior Venessa Sims, the only Davidson athlete to place in the Southern Conference Indoor Championships on Feb. 23-24 (3rd in high jump), has helped revitalize the women’s track program which is having one of its most successful seasons in school history (see p. 16 for story). 
Scott Burkhardt