THE DAVIDSONIAN

GOODBYE

And so we bid farewell to the class of 1996. Since they arrived as nervous freshmen in 1992, they have
seen our school change in dramatic ways. However, as they now leave us to exit the bubble and enter the
“real world,” they will take it all with them — the honor code, the study regimen, the friendships, the friendliness
... even a working knowledge of flickerball.

NEWS

BRAD CHASE
Staff Writer

In three more weeks seniors will be going, going, gone. But, by the looks of where they are going it
will be to bigger and newer places. A random sampling: Mark McGuire looks forward to teaching in the JET program.
He says, “I will be teaching English to little kids. My goal is to spend two years there and then
go back to school.”

About 12 seniors have been accepted to law school so far. Among those schools are Harvard, UVA, UNC, William and
Mary, and the University of Florida. Kim Kreiling will be doing missionary work in Cambodia. Some fortuitous survivors of the
Pre-Med program will be going on to med school. Some ten seniors have already decided on a school that accepted
them. Other seniors will be working in consulting firms, pursuing doctorates and other postgraduate degrees, and overall just starting to
climb their way up the career ladder.

John Ballard will be going to Tulane University. He says, “I am going to pursue a master's in Latin American
studies. I was offered a fellowship with the stipulation that I enroll in Portuguese. It is a two-year program and
I am interested in exploring the possibilities.”

However, for some people, the future is not so clear. Former SGA President Bill Gullan states his post-graduation life is,
“yet to be determined.” Michael Bode says, “I have gained an excellent education. It will make for good conversation in
the unemployment line.”

Overall, some 200 seniors have listed definite future career plans.

Year from page 1

...became the catchphrase. From the Commons to the Court, attention to the divide between men and women might have brought
us together, at least for a time. As if taking flack for gender problems is not enough, Patterson Court had
other problems, too. A miscalculation left five houses in debt to the college. And a rousing celebration turned into a
bonfire worthy of police attention. Most significant, the alcohol policy went on a carousel ride of changes. First, we all
wore wristbands. Then the risk of spending all of the PCC’s risk management budget made it mandatory only for those
over 21. Wristbands became a moot issue as soon as the Self-Study recommended a ban on kegs. We wanted them
to stay, but we fought even harder for the Court as a whole. The trustees voted to ban the kegs,
but did not address house purchase of alcohol — avoiding the extreme of BYOB. However, Court presidents say that next
year there will be fewer open parties due to rules of national chapters.

For those who wanted a court alternative, “If you build it, they will come” became a social motto. Plans for
a new Union were unveiled. The International Students Association pursued the idea of an International House. And a group of
students without an organization are pushing for another co-ed eating house. But we do not just build houses for ourselves.
After a huge fundraising drive, we are now raising a Habitat House for a family from the Davidson community. RLO
has plans to do some building as well. Knox, Akers, and Irwin will get much-needed attention over the summer. As
was the case for the first time this year, one of them will again have a co-ed hall.

Davidson was published in Security World magazine for being a safe campus. Maybe it was the new car the police
got, or the new 911 system that we now call 9-911. Politics had its place. Off-campus, a few of our
fellow students joined the million men who marched in Washington, D.C. On campus, it was quieter. Warren Buford and Sara
Beth Hamlin slipped quietly into office unopposed. Not to say they have not been noticed. The SGA tried to reach
outside with the Phonathon, and it turned toward the inside with Dorm Storm. The Union revived the Jumpin’ Java, later
joined off-campus by Cosmic Coffee. We dined on Left Over Salmon in the fall, with a little bit of Rusted
Root, and we frolicked in the spring with Squirrel Nut Zippers. And our own orchestra played both a first and
a last when Richard Prior’s Phoenix Rising debuted with retiring James Swisher as the pianist.

Some came to Davidson not to...play or sing, but to speak. Harry Wu talked about human rights, Cornel West about
how to make it right. Christina Hoff Summers discussed the face of feminism, Frederick Buechner, the faces of Jesus. Speakers
are not the only ones we listened to. Now WALT plays what WDAV cannot. And “The South’s Foremost College Weekly”
was complemented by Libertas. Competition was fierce in the sports arena. An awesome season otherwise, Davidson Basketball lost the Southern
Conference tournament, and with it our bid to the NCAA. We said hello to Jim Murphy as the new Athletic
Director, but have begun to bid farewell to Kuykendall, who announced he will resign at the end of next year.
So it goes with students as well. The seniors will march in front of Dana within a month, leaving the
class of '97 to take the reins and the class of '00 to bring up the rear.

MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1996

Forum on religion sparks debate, but inconclusive
By ANN HATFIELD
Staff Writer

This past Wednesday, Warren Buford conducted an open forum on religion at Davidson. The panel consisted of Chaplain and Chairman
of the Ecumenical Council Rob Spach, Matt Rich, Sarah Gephardt, Julie O’Connor, FCA President Eric Sapp, Seth Clippard, and IVCF
President Macon Stokes. With the Easter crosses conflict serving as an impetus, students expressed their concerns about the religious climate
and diversity at Davidson. Though a controversial topic, students managed to check their passions at the door and engage in
effective discussion.

Buford opened the floor by asking each of the panelists what they liked best and least about religious life at
Davidson. Responses ran the gamut: Stressing the positive, Stokes and Rich emphasized the sense of community and the many religious
options available to students, while Clippard, O’Connor, and Gephardt cited the shortage of religious options and diversity as their preeminent
concerns. Spach, Stokes, Sapp, and Rich pointed out the wealth of Christian organizations on campus and the different voice and
focus of each. They argued that among Davidson Christians, diversity thrived. Some panelists, however, expressed the belief that for a
non-Christian, Davidson provides no home. Jewish student and panelist Sarah Gephardt felt that Davidson attitudes fostered defensiveness among non-Christians. Gephardt
says, “Davidson falsely advertises to prospective students when it pretends to be a school of religious diversity.” Disillusioned with campus
attitudes, she adds, “I would never suggest it [Davidson] to anyone of a non-Christian tradition or an open mind.”

From the floor, Kelly Cunningham expressed her own opinion that Davidson had become embittered and “polarized” over the religion issue.
She called for “increased dialogue.” After an hour and a half of thoughtful, but inconclusive debate, Buford closed the forum
by challenging each participant to formulate suggestions to improve religious relations at Davidson.

Flannagan will teach in English department
By JONATHAN SIPLING
Staff Writer

Facing an opening next year in the English department, the College conducted a nationwide search process for a professor to
fill the position. They have decided to hire Dr. Brenda Flannagan, an African-American English professor currently teaching in Michigan. She
will be coming next year as a full Professor of English.

Davidson is making a concerted effort to bring more minority faculty to campus. Robert Williams, Vice President of Academic Affairs
and Dean of Faculty, says the size of the applicant pool has proven the most problematic stumbling block. Areas like
physics simply turn out very few African-American Ph.D.’s, causing the college to target areas like anthropology, English, and history, where
the viable applicant pools are larger and Davidson has met with greater success. “We’re an equal opportunity employer... We don’t
have an affirmative action agreement with the government, but we take extra steps to recruit minority faculty whenever appropriate,” Williams
said.

Flannagan has come to Davidson in the past to lecture and, most recently, a year ago on a visiting appointment.
Williams notes that you can’t approach these searches in the usual way, or you won’t be able to hire the
minority faculty you want. “Ultimately, our principle is to hire the best qualified candidates... But, depending on how you define
the search, you can guarantee that you will fail or succeed to attract minority candidates.”

Good luck on that baby bio/kiddie chem/physics around you/astronomy/finite math test!

It's Spring time! It's party time! It's time to get a tan!
$4.00 PER SESSION
10 sessions for $33.00
15 sessions for $43.00
20 sessions for $50.00
Monthly Unlimited for $49.00

Located at the Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St., Cornelius
(704) 892-7030

Sculptured Nails * French Manicures * Pedicures
TREAT YOURSELF TODAY!
