2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS BRIEFS

SAC to the Director of Public Safety tours campus ‘in the dark’

The Student Advisory Committee to the Director of Public Safety took a nighttime tour of the campus two weeks ago in search of insufficiently lit areas of campus. Along with Ray Thrower, Director of Public Safety and Police, the Committee, chaired by Junior Class President Lucian Dervan, reported that the campus was generally well-lit, although several inadequately lit areas were discovered. These problem areas will be improved in the near future.

KISS 95.1 FM calls Dr. Robin Barnes

Dr. Robin Barnes, Professor of History, was called by Charlotte radio station KISS 95.1 FM last Thursday afternoon. The rock/pop station phoned Barnes’ office as part of a promotional contest in which the station periodically calls randomly selected telephone numbers and asks whoever answers for “the phrase that pays.” Unfortunately, at the time of last Thursday’s call, Barnes was not in his office and did not have “the phrase that pays” recorded onto his voice mail message. Those who are able to supply KISS 95.1’s D.J. callers with the station name and slogan win $1,000.

Union survey almost wrapped up

The SGA Polling and Response Committee's campus-wide survey about what students would like to see in Davidson's new Union has been completed. However, anyone who was not able to fill out a survey may still do so next week on the Vail Commons landing. The committee will compile the survey results and share them with the Union Board Planning Committee, which requested the survey.

RLO cancels PiKA’s Glam Rock party

PiKA fraternity’s annual Glam Rock party was canceled last weekend by college administration after PiKA representatives failed to pick up required Patterson Court wristbands by a specified time.

NEWS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1996

Please help the Polling and Response Committee!

Due to miscommunication, the Commons threw away all of the surveys about the new Union collected there. If you filled out a survey, please take a few minutes to fill out a new one.

Thank you!

In focus ... STUDENT VOICES

Who would be your “dream speaker” at Davidson and why?

Jimmy Buffett, singer or Hunter S. Thompson, journalist
The gonzo philosophy and mindset that both embody would provide Davidson with a little much-needed fun. Around here, it seems like we tend to lose sight of what laughter is.

Toni Morrison, author

James Carville, President Clinton’s former campaign manager

R. C. Sproul, philosopher/theologian

Greg Garrison, '97
Emily Setina, '99

Sarah House, '99

My dream speaker would be R. C. Sproul because he would bring a unique and controversial point of view.

Toni Morrison, author

Daniel Cantey, '99

... for her ability to express profound existential insight with artistic integrity. Since she is one of the best writers from this century, her speech would be dynamic.

Sandra Bullock, actress

I want to know about Eastern Carolina.

John Malkovich, actor

He’s an incredible actor, and he’s hot, too.

David W. Orr, environmental educator/author
In learning of environmental activism throughout the nation's campuses, Davidson students, faculty, and staff could identify methods for promoting environmental integrity in all aspects of our daily college life.

Dennis Seavers, '97

Derek Wenzel, '99

Matthew Hobbie, '98

Meredith Judy, '99

THANKS FOR THE COMMONS

Freshmen Jen Spears and Lindsay Hughes enjoy Thanksgiving Dinner a week early in Commons Thursday night.

Will Nolen

Brewery in Corntown will cater to Davidson students

from page 1

says, “I love beer, everything about it, and I want to share that passion with anyone capable of hoisting a pint glass.”

With a substantial kitchen, a private party room, and the capacity to seat well over two hundred dining customers in the main dining room, LNBC promises to be much more than a simple brewpub.

Renshaw says, “We’re committed to getting people really excellent food as fast as possible. You won’t have to wait around forever for a good meal.”

The brewpub will offer an interesting special for its regulars. “If you buy one of our mugs,” says Renshaw, “you get a lifetime discount on the beer.”

He continues, “The mugs will be numbered, and when you come in, you ask for yours, and the bartender will find the one with your number on it. The mugs hold 20 ounces, and you get yours filled for the price of 16 ounces.”

Another special that the management is planning is to have a Davidson night, when students will be able to come in with their Davidson IDs and get discount prices.

In addition to the entertainment that beer provides naturally, the bar will be equipped with a couple of televisions.

Bands will play there on some nights as well, promising a good time for designated drivers.

Lake Norman Brewing Company is located at 19707 Liverpool Parkway, the same road Best Western and Movies at the Lake are.