THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1996

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
JAMES BERRY

Arts & Living Editor
CARRIE BLACKBURN

Copy Editor
MARY CLARE JALONICK

Asst. Arts & Living Editor
MARY TOWLES ALLISON

Business Manager
KATHERINE HASH

Associate Editor
TERESA WHITE

News Editor
WILL BRADSHAW

Assistant Business Manager
CAROLINE BYNUM

Assistant News Editors
CATHERINE ANDERSON
BONNER MEAD

Sports Editor
MICHAEL KRUSE

Advertising Managers
BEN GRIFFIN
NARESH NAGELLA

Assistant Sports Editor
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL

Photography Editor
JOSH GLAZER

Circulation Manager
CHLOE BROOKE

Opinions Editor
KATIE McKELVIE

Asst. Photography Editor
SALLY NORRIS

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

The Great Davidson Fashion Debate
Hardly a minor issue

Liberal arts. What’s in a name? By coming to a school like Davidson, we sacrifice diversity. Should we attend a
larger university, most of us would be able to take classes such as “Business in the Cyberworld,” or “An analytical
approach to Madonna’s videos.” We came here knowing that. We also came here knowing that we would have core requirements
to fill and a hefty major requirement. We came here knowing that we would have to work hard (4 hours
a night average, right?) and that a balance between academics and, well, anything else would be a struggle to maintain.

So, the faculty have voted, we should not have minors. A minor would only give each student a more limited
exposure to elective classes in many different departments. A minor would only add pressure to an already intense course load
and life. Maybe so. But the truth stands: we are going to take what we want to, with or without
the option of a minor. We are students first because we want to be, not for transcript credit. The courses
we take here are principally for us, and whether or not we receive additional titles or honors for our work,
we will take them. The number of students who (officially or no) audit classes serves as testament to this. Offering
minors would only be giving a name to the limits and pressure we already place on ourselves.

The Careers Office tells us that a minor would look good on our resumes. Countless students travel abroad and receive
no real credit for it; most abroad programs will only accept those who have completed basic requirements, and not everyone
wants to major in a language. Minors would give students credit for what they are already doing. Most importantly, those
who are really dedicated to two different fields are now double majoring. Electives and pressure, then, are obviously not real
issues. Double majors don’t sample electives, for they have to take ten more classes instead of just five.

So, we ask, why no minors? It seems silly. Talk to professors about it. Some faculty say that they have
not received much student input on the issue, that they are not sure that students really want minors. Is that
really why? Are the petitions and SGA resolutions not enough? Then what are they waiting for? Here it is: we
want minors.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address all
correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located
on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do
not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are
available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTERS

Vogelbacher responds

To the editors:

Eric Sapp was right. I have never felt the heat from a star far away, never seen a carbon atom
up close, or ever sailed around the world. I’ve never even been to Chicago. But if someone were to ask
me whether I believed that Michael Jordan was really playing 600 miles away while watching the game on TV I
would reply, “Yes.” Yet I would be hesitant to claim that this belief is faith. It would be difficult to
prove that MJ is actually in Chicago.From my palatial, imitation dorm room in 1st West Belk, I probably couldn’t even
prove that Chambers was smack in the middle of campus from my room. But I digress... As an aspiring intellectual,
I don’t blindly acquire information from books, professors, or pastors. The fact that I can discriminate, question, and choose enables
me to accept some explanations and reject others. “A choice in God is our decision,” as Eric suggests, “and we
will make it for our own reasons.” Personal justifications and first-person accounts of people “discovering” God don’t give legitimacy to
this belief. Surely the bigot has his own reasons for being racist. Many have seen and heard personal narratives recounting
UFO abductions, out-of-body travel, and sightings of Elvis at Harris-Teeter. Just because thousands of people believe in and can “understand”
the Bible as opposed to the theory of relativity doesn’t provide validity to either claim. Many people used to think
the sun revolved around the earth. I never once declared that a rational person couldn’t accept the existence of God.
Nor did I assert the non-existence of God. In my article, I just tried to show that life could have
“meaning” without belief in a Higher Being. I merely assume this position by default, as sort of a null-hypothesis. In
no way do I think that there is no evidence for a belief in God, I simply feel that this
evidence is confounded and inconclusive. I have never stuck my head inside the nuclear reactor at McGuire power plant. But
I'll believe the technician who tells me that uranium atoms are being split — that matter is being converted into
energy. Each time I switch on my lights, my support for Einstein’s hypothesis grows a tiny bit stronger. I am
still looking for that convincing evidence with God. Maybe someday I will find it.

Sincerely,
Rob Vogelbacher, ‘97

Talk about minors

To the Editors:

Last Tuesday, February 13, the SGA passed without opposition a resolution in favor of the current proposal by the Council
on Academic Affairs (CAA) for academic minors at Davidson. As many students and faculty may know, this is not the
first time that the SGA has discussed the issue of minors; in fact, the Academic Affairs Council has spent the
last year working on this issue. During the course of last year, three proposals (including this one) have been written,
hours of research conducted, and numerous meetings held with the Educational Policy Committee (EPC). Indeed, tireless efforts have been put
forth by several students and faculty, all for the sake of bringing to Davidson yet another academic benefit.

The resolution, therefore, is not a new attempt to bring this issue to the forefront. Rather, it joins a petition
signed by over 50% of the student body and two surveys conducted by the CAA as a solid reminder of
the demand by students to have minors at Davidson. Furthermore, the resolution symbolizes the support that SGA members give to
the current proposal, a proposal written after much compromise and tremendous amounts of research.

There are reasons why we support this proposal. It recommends that “minors will remain optional for departments to offer” and
that “departments may exercise their own discretion concerning the declaration of minors and advisors for minors.” Also, it states that
individual departments will choose courses which constitute minors, that students must maintain a minimum GPA of 2.0 to pursue a
minor, and that students may not pursue two minors or a minor and a double major. We reiterate that the
SGA finds no flaws in this proposal which should keep it from becoming college policy. Furthermore, we find no reason
why Davidson should fail to offer minors.

While we are encouraged by the overall student support and by the passage of this resolution, we realize that bringing
minors to Davidson requires even more action. On behalf of the SGA, we ask students who support this initiative to
continue advocating for it.
