6 THE DAVIDSONIAN ELSEWHERE MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1996

Week in Washington

Forbes works to challenge Dole lead in New Hampshire

By David Santschi
Washington Week Correspondent

Multimillionaire publisher Malcolm S. “Steve” Forbes Jr. has mounted an unexpectedly strong challenge to Republican front-runner Sen. Robert Dole (R-KS)
in the New Hampshire primary. Conflicting results from two separate polls show just how tight the race has become. A
poll of 400 likely Republican primary voters published Friday in The Boston Globe showed that Forbes commanded 31% support, while
Dole had only 22%. The other candidates, Sen. Phil Gramm (R-TX), former Tennessee governor Lamar Alexander, Sen. Richard Lugar (R-IN),
and commentator Patrick Buchanan, polled in the single digits. Another poll by the American Research Group showed Dole with 25%
and Forbes with 19%. Both polls had a margin of error of five percentage points.

“If I worried about every poll, I'd probably have an Excedrin headache,” Dole said in response to the new surveys.
Yet there were unmistakable signs that his campaign is struggling. Dole’s troubles began during his response to President Clinton’s State
of the Union address. His delivery was stiff and unemotional, and his dire warnings against liberalism seemed out of place
as Clinton declared twice that “the era of big government is over.” Dole defended his performance, saying “it played very
well with the Republicans. That’s who we’re addressing right now.” In recent weeks, Dole has had to campaign against Forbes
rather than President Clinton, most notably in a new series of television commercials attacking Forbes’ inexperience and the flat tax.
Ruth Griffin, a Dole supporter and a local officeholder in New Hampshire, said, “This campaign is thoroughly volatile right now.
I’m telling you that there are a lot of people out there changing their minds.”

Despite Forbes’ spending $15 million of his own money, Dole retains a strong lead in financial resources compared to the
other Republican candidates. Dole has $4.4 million in cash on hand and has raised over $25.2 million in campaign funds.
Forbes has not released copies of his campaign report or revealed how much money he has on reserve. Forbes’ surprising
gain in the polls has energized a race Dole was expected to win handily.

Both candidates face different challenges. Forbes has attracted support largely because of his ready cash, the flat tax, and his
status as a political outsider. But with his rise in popularity will come increased scrutiny, which devastated Paul Tsongas and
Ross Perot in the 1992 campaign. Forbes must also move beyond the perception that he is a single-issue candidate, since
the flat tax has been criticized for benefiting the wealthy. Dole must offer a more focused message and counter the
perception that he is just “the same old senator.”

Sources include: January 26 and February 1 and 2 of The New York Times and the January 29-February 4 issue
of The Washington Post — National Weekly Edition.

Global Perspective

Africa’s Bosnia?

By Eric Collins
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

It is a country with intractable problems of ethnicity, a history of violence and genocide, and an uncertain future. Madeleine
Albright, the US representative to the United Nations, describes it as “teetering on the verge of national suicide.” It is
a country to which the US will reluctantly provide equipment and assistance, but not troops. This small, poor, densely populated,
landlocked nation, located not in Europe, but in East-Central Africa, is Burundi.

Burundi shares several characteristics with its northern neighbor Rwanda, whose spring 1994 massacres attracted international attention. Perhaps most salient is
the dichotomy between demographics and power. The Hutu people (80-85% of the population) have long been subordinate to the minority
Tutsi (15-20%). The Tutsi have traditionally dominated politics, the army, civil service, and the economy. Tensions between the groups trace
to the beginning of this century, but certain events, such as deaths following an abortive coup attempt in 1972 and
the pains of progress towards democracy, polarized the already fragile relations between Hutus and Tutsis, setting the stage for an
October 1993 coup. The coup itself involved a Tutsi-military-led attack upon the presidential palace and other governmental institutions in the
capital Bujumbura, and resulted in the assassination of President Melchior Ndadaye. However, it is the legacy of other consequences which
contributes to the worsening situation in present-day Burundi. Violence erupted in the provinces as Hutu and Tutsi alike embarked on
random killing sprees, leaving as many as 50,000 dead. The army employed excessive force against civilians, and roughly 700,000 people,
mainly Hutu, fled to neighboring countries while thousands more became “displaced persons,” refugees within their own country.

The events of October slowly metamorphosed into a “creeping coup” characterized by street violence in Bujumbura, rural disorder,and intimidation of
opposition political figures, all of which undermined the administration of the “consensus candidate” Cyprien Ntaryamira, chosen by the constitutional court
to succeed Ndadaye. The situation progressively deteriorated following the events of October 1993, although Burundi did manage to avoid the
mass violence which shook Rwanda in April 1994 following the deaths of Ntaryamira and Rwandan President Habyarimana in a plane
crash widely believed to be an attempt on Habyarimana’s life. Despite repeated warnings by Secretary-General Boutros-Ghali and relief agencies that
Burundi is currently perched on the brink of civil war, the UN Security Council, spearheaded by the US and France,
passed a resolution this past week “calling for restraint, reconciliation, and the rule of law” but postponed decisive international action
until after the Secretary-General completes and delivers a study of potential preventive measures on February 20th. This action, together with
the previous US rejection of Boutros-Ghali’s proposal to deploy a quick reaction force on Burundi’s borders, demonstrates the unwillingness of
any of the major international players to take the lead in preventing a crisis in Burundi. Many experts embrace “preventive
diplomacy” as the new buzzword in the post-Cold War era. Yet, in a situation such as Burundi, the international community
seems intent to sit on its hands even though, as Lionel Rosenblatt, president of Refugees International and founder of the
Burundi Policy Forum, asserts, referring to the April 1994 massacres in Rwanda: “We have before us that graphic example of
what happens when you wait.” Sources include: Jan 29, 1996 New York Times and Burundi: Breaking the Cycle of Melee.

France abandons nuclear tests
French President Jacques Chirac declared an end to France’s nuclear weapons test program on Monday. Since last fall, France has
performed six weapons tests in the South Pacific. Many of France’s European allies, the United States, and a number of
countries in the Pacific, including Japan and Australia, have protested France’s nuclear testing policy. Sources include: January 30, 1996 The
New York Times

Bomb attack injures civilians in Sri Lanka
Over a thousand Sri Lankan citizens were injured Wednesday as an estimated 110 to 220 pounds of explosives detonated outside
a Central Bank building in downtown Colombo. Authorities blamed the attack on the Tamil Tiger rebels. Sri Lanka has been
embroiled in civil war for over 10 years, as the Tamil Tigers have fought for the independence of the Tamils,
an ethnic minority which accounts for roughly 2 million of Sri Lanka’s 17 million inhabitants. Sources include: January 31, 1996
The New York Times

Ethiopian Jews riot in Jerusalem
Ethiopian Jews, outraged by the recently released news that Israeli officials secretly destroyed the blood donated by Ethiopians since 1984,
rioted in the streets of Jerusalem last Sunday. Israeli officials say the policy of discarding the Ethiopians’ blood was instituted
in order to protect recipients of donated blood from contracting the HIV virus. Approximately 520 of the 60,000 Jewish Ethiopians
living in Israel are known to be infected with HIV, while only 800 of Israel’s 5 million other citizens carry
the virus. Sources include: January 29, 1996 The New York Times

Clinton maintains philosophical consistency
In an interview from the Oval Office Tuesday, President Clinton responded to assertions that he has changed his political philosophy
since taking office three years ago. While statements made in his first speech to Congress in 1993 and his message
in last week’s State of the Union address may seem contradictory to many, Clinton said Tuesday that he has not
rejected his earlier political philosophy. “I have worked on [a coherent political philosophy] for years and years,” Clinton said, “and
I believe that there’s a remarkable consistency in what we have done.” Sources include: January 31, 1996 The Washington Post

Whatever happened to Nintendo?
Kashima University has expelled four medical students for pelting other students with human brains. School officials say the three men
and one woman were dissecting cadavers in the science laboratory when one of the males removed part of the cerebral
cortex from the corpse’s skull and threw it at one of the other medical students. Within minutes a “brain fight”
broke out. The students reportedly opened the windows of the second-floor lab and began throwing brains on innocent colleagues down
below. One girl was hit in the face and required treatment at the university’s emergency room. The expelled students said
they didn’t plan the brain fight. One of them said, “It just sort of happened.” He blamed the odd behavior
on the pressure of constant study and lack of sleep. “We just had to let off some steam,” admitted Akayo
Hanyu, 19. “We realize that our medical students are under pressure,” said Dr. Tatsuno, “But we expect our future doctors
and nurses to conduct themselves like ladies and gentlemen at all times.” — Internet News Service

A new nation
“If Libya be a nation, why can’t we?” — Jose Cuervo tequila spokesman, Steve Goldstein, on a company proposal to
make an eight-acre Caribbean island country called “The Republic of Cuervo Gold” — Newsweek
