12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1996

Maverick at the Outpost
Card sharks Buck, Young, Cromartie, and Ruggiero take home some dough
By Susan RUGGIERO
Arts and Living Editor

“Was that fast? I thought that was fast. Was that fast?” It was not Mel Gibson’s guns that students thought
were fast at the Outpost Friday night, but the time allotted for each Spades match in a tournament sponsored by
the Union Board. In an effort to keep the tournament from becoming a true “Maverick” event — lasting all night
— the coordinators of the event limited each round to half an hour.

When half the contestants were eliminated after only 30 minutes, the large crowd in the Outpost quickly dissipated as many
students walked away in disgust. Some tables were only able to play two hands of cards, which became deadly for
any team that overbid.

The time limit was not the only aspect of the game with which students were dissatisfied. Before the event began,
grumblings could be heard all over the room as students complained about the official rules for the game, which included
Big Joker, Little Joker, and no nil or blind bidding. Many tables decided to play a more traditional version of
the game and set ground rules themselves before starting play.

Thirty teams of two entered the 10 p.m. tournament and paid a $3 entrance fee in hopes of winning some
dough.

Movie Review
Clueless about Emma
By SHAUNA GRIFFIN
Staff Writer

The other night, a few friends and I went out to The Manor, a movie house in Charlotte, to see
Emma, a new screen version of Jane Austen’s classic novel by the same name. Or, if you prefer, we saw
an adaptation of the movie Clueless. The similarities between these two films were quite striking, even down to some of
the mannerisms of the main characters, and some of the names of the lesser ones.

Unfortunately, these little similarities meant that I spent much of the movie trying to figure out which Emma character corresponded
with which Clueless character, comparing acting skills and dress styles, and in general forgetting to enjoy the movie for itself.
I did notice (and was duly impressed by) the ease with which the main character was able to maintain her
composed manner of speaking, even in moments of tension (why isn’t real life like that?). It was the small details,
such as the manner of speaking, beautiful weather, and huge wardrobes that made the movie a great escape from reality,
which is, I suppose, the reason most movies are made.

On to the little details that can make or break a movie: The set designs were absolutely beautiful — romantic
when appropriate, serious when needed. Those scenes set outside were especially well chosen and laid out. The scenes inside were
authentic, but often seemed a little awkward, at least when there were two or three characters seated in armchairs (how
often do you and your friends sit knee to knee?).

The costumes were well designed for the most part, although the men looked uncomfortable and stuffy, and Harriet Smith too
frumpy. Emma was also surprisingly funny, and with Gwyneth Paltrow in the lead, was admirably acted. In all, I enjoyed
the movie, and would recommend it as a good way to spend a few hours.

Enter Now!!!
The Davidsonian Annual Photo Contest. Submit your work with name and phone number to the Davidsonian Office in the College
Union. If you have questions or just want someone to talk to who cares, call x2148 and ask for Teresa,
everyone’s favorite editor.ning the fifty dollars for first place cash prize. Dennis Rice, manager of the Outpost, even got into
the spirit of the game by offering free pizzas to the top two teams. Several pairs of players came prepared
to play, going as far as dressing alike. One team wore white shirts and jeans with backwards baseball caps to
emphasize their card shark abilities. Freshmen Cam Houser and Howie Cockrill arrived ready to play cards in $1.25 smoking jackets
from Goodwill, and brought, in vain, victory cigars. They made it to the quarter-finals, where they agreed with their opponents,
Jeffery Cromartie and Susan Ruggiero, to extend playing time to an hour, making it, as Cromartie said, “the first real
game of the night.” By the time Cromartie and Ruggiero faced Dennis Buck and Scott Young in the championship round,
both teams decided to eliminate luck from playing any factor at all in the match. After carefully calculating the potential
winnings — $50 to first place and $20 to the runners-up, plus the pizza — as well as other factors,
which Cromartie described to his opponents as “it’s late, it’s Davidson, you’re a senior and you’re not going to be
here forever,” the players diplomatically agreed to declare both teams the champions and split the prize money.

Welcome Back!
A European style coffeehouse serving Espresso - Cappuccino - Caffe Latte & Italian Sodas
Now serving beer and wine!
Daily Lunch Specials!
Weekdays 7am-10pm
Weekends 9am-12pm; Sun 9am-10pm
Live Entertainment on Weekends!
Blowing Rock & Davidson, NC
704.295.4762
704.896.3915

Cheap Weekend Getaway Airfares
Travel Network, located near Harris Teeter at exit 28, is selling the new "e saver fares” which are up to
80% off regular airfares. Recent round trip fares include WDC, ATL, JAX, or Nashville for $79. Chicago, Buffalo, or Ft.
Myers for $99. DFW, HOU, or MSP for $119. You must book on Wed. - Fri., fly the following Sat.
and return Sun., Mon., or Tues. For fares for the upcoming weekend, call or visit Travel Network on Wed. -
Fri. any week and take off for the weekend!
at LAKE NORMAN. SouthLake Shopping Center, I-77 -- Exit 28 (Between Roses and Harris Teeter) 896-7480

At the Clubs |— Music in two hours or less— COMPILED BY
Monday, Sept. 9
Double Door: Sim Brock, Rick Blackwell, Johnny Alexander, Charles Hairston, & Joe Lindsey
Rainbow Deli/Arboretum (Cornelius): Green Eggs and Jam

Tuesday, Sept. 10
Pterodactyl: 80’s Dance night
Mythos: College night - Techno
Blockbuster Pavilion: Alanis Morissette
Double Door: Doubting Thomas
Tremont: Monkey Grass, Orbit, & Vox Pops
Coyote Joe’s (country): Vic Rorrer & The No Name Band
Ziggy’s (Winston Salem): Bad Religion & Goldfinger

Wednesday, Sept. 11
Double Door: Zelis
Amos’: Little Wing
Coyote Joe’s (country): Vic Rorrer & The No Name Band
Jack Straw’s: Conehead Buddha
Club 2000: College night Dance

Thursday, Sept. 12
Baha: Retro 80’s Dance night
Double Door: Chubby Carrier & The Zydeco Swamp Band w/ Lil’ Brian Terry (9 pm)
Comedy Zone: Bill Maher (from Politically Incorrect)
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance

Friday, Sept. 13
Double Door: Joe Louis Walker & The Boss Talkers
Comedy Zone: Bill Maher (from Politically Incorrect)
Baha: Rave night
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance
Tremont: Neurosis

Saturday, Sept. 14
Double Door: The Diss-Counts
Pterodactyl: Dance

Sunday, Sept. 15
Double Door: Les Moore & friends - Open Stage performances
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Free dance lessons at 8:30pm (Salsa & Meringue!)

Alternative Club #s
Double Door Inn: 376-1446
Jack Straw’s: 347-8960
Blockbuster Pavilion: 337-2883
Baha: 525-3343
Coyote Joe’s: 399-4946
Tremont Music Hall: 343-9494
Amos’: 527-6611
Comedy Zone: 568-4242

Cute Kids Extra Money
Babysitting. $6/hr. Local mom needs sitter for 2 yr. old and 6 mo. old. Any weekday afternoon. Flexible hours. Non-smoker.
Need own transportation. Call 892-4498.
