THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1996

PARTNERS IN CONSTRUCTION

Community Service Coordinator Catherine Turner (right), co-chairperson of the Wildcat Habitat Committee, consults with Pat Millen at the Habitat site. Millen and his wife, Eileen Keely of the development office, were chosen as the Jetton family’s partners. They will work with the Jettons during and after the construction of their home. The Wildcat Habitat Committee is hoping for good weather. Frequent precipitation since Christmas has kept the ground too wet to begin digging foundation footings at the site on Westside Terrace, where the group will build a home for the Jetton family. The land has been cleared and workers are ready, but they must wait until the land dries for construction to move into full gear. “Once the foundation is poured, we’ll become building maniacs,” said Katherine Cooke, volunteer subcommittee chairperson. Meanwhile, the committee is recruiting volunteers and raising money. In honor of Valentine’s Day, students signed up last week to work with their Valentine — or with just a friend — this coming Saturday, Feb. 24 (weather permitting!). Volunteers are still needed for many different aspects of the project, and applications may be picked up in the Union pit and in the library. Construction days are planned for Thursday afternoons and all day Saturdays. Fundraising efforts have been going extremely well. More than $27,000 has been raised, which is close to the monetary goal of $30,000. This will be supplemented by $10,000 of in-kind donations. This week, “Hammerhead” fundraisers will be continuing the campaign by contacting students who have recently returned from abroad. The Wildcat Habitat Committee is headed by Smita Donthamsetty (x6730) and Catherine Turner (x2460).

Tuition will rise again for 1996-97 school year

By Kirsten RECKNAGEL Assistant News Editor

All parents of Davidson students received word last week of the rising cost of a Davidson education for the ‘96-‘97 school year. In a letter written last Monday, College President John Kuykendall related results of the Davidson Board of Trustees’ recent approval of next year’s budget and how budget decisions will affect the cost of tuition and other fees. Although the cost of attending Davidson will increase, President Kuykendall writes that, “this is the fifth year in which we have been able to reduce the percentage rate of growth ... This year’s percentage increase is the lowest in 21 years at Davidson.” Tuition and fees account for roughly two-thirds of Davidson’s projected revenues, while the College’s endowment constitutes the next largest share, at 16%. Accounting for about 40% of projected expenses, Academic Affairs, which includes faculty salaries, makes up the largest category of expenditures. Kuykendall writes that “a substantial portion of our increase in revenues for this year will be directed to enhancement of compensation for Davidson faculty and staff,” an area in which “Davidson lags significantly behind its peer institutions.” Following Academic Affairs, distribution of financial aid constitutes 22% of Davidson’s projected expenses. Although growing numbers of schools of comparable size and quality to Davidson are deciding to sacrifice financial aid in the course of budget appropriations, such action does not lie in Davidson’s future. Decreasing financial aid “would be impossible unless Davidson were to change its core value system,” says Vice President for Business and Finance, Robert Norfleet. The future of one area of the budget seems especially positive, however. Although the size of Davidson’s endowment typically falls between 20-30% of endowments of similar institutions, it has seen recent growth and tremendous returns on investment. Its current market value is $163 million. Says Norfleet, “The more the endowment grows, the more we can take pressure off students and their families.”

Nominees wait to hear about Watson Scholarship

Four students propose topics from The Beatles to the banks of Bangladesh

By ANN HATFIELD Staff Writer

An award that offers virtually limitless opportunities, the Watson Fellowship allows “college graduates of exceptional promise to engage in a year of independent study and travel abroad following graduation.” After proposing projects of their choice, the Watson Foundation awardsNational nominees receive a $16,000 grant to go abroad and enact their proposals. From a pool of over 40 proposals, 24 Davidson students were interviewed by the Davidson selection committee. Made up of Dean Shandley, faculty members, and two students, the committee nominated four seniors for the prestigious Watson Fellowship. Davidson seniors Eric Collings, Mandy Curtis, Jeni Hankins, and Aigool Khalikov were selected to advance to the national pool of nominees. This year’s Davidson nominees represent a variety of interests and propose four unique projects.

Democracy in Asia: The Soviet Void
An entirely different region of the world appeals to Eric Collings. He developed an interest in the former Soviet Union after spending his junior year in Kazakhstan, Asia. Collings says that he “wants to study the attitudes of four Asian republics toward democracy and market economics after the fall of the Soviet Union.” Focusing his research on the republics of Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, and Kyrgyzstan, he describes his proposed course of study as “political science participant observation in Central Asia.” He adds, “Everyone assumed that after the fall of the Soviet Union, democracy would take over. In reality, these countries have moved toward authoritarianism. I want to know what factors contribute to the emergence of authoritarian leaders as opposed to democratic leaders.”

Journalism in Latin America
English major Mandy Curtis hopes to study female journalists and the alternative press in Latin America. Says Curtis, “I'm interested in how women journalists of the official and alternative press use journalism as a means of achieving political and social change.” Curtis is interested in how women who work for feminist publications address controversial issues such as sexism, rape, domestic violence, abortion, and divorce as a way of bringing about change for women in Latin America. “As a journalist, I realize the value and the power of the printed word as a reflection of cultural ideals. I see journalism as a means for communicating, sharing ideas, shaping and molding perspectives and attitudes, perpetuating tradition or instigating change, and creating history and a kind of cultural reality.” Curtis proposes to study in Argentina, Chile, Mexico, and Nicaragua.

East Meets West: American Icons Abroad
Jeni Hankins wants to put her Classical Political Philosophy major to use by examining religious and popular devotional icons. She titles her proposal “Stars and Saints — Fans and the Faithful” and plans to travel to Western Europe, Japan, and Russia to study the influence of Elvis Presley, Marilyn Monroe, Jim Morrison, and the Beatles. Hankins explains, “each region represents a different attitude. In Western Europe, I want to study western icons in the West; in Japan, western icons adopted by the East; and Russia, a kind of East meets West.”

Economics in the Third World: Search for a Solution
Economics/Political Science major Aigool Khalikov proposes to study “microlending” in Bangladesh, Indonesia, India, and Malawi. She describes this concept “as a phenomenon in economic development in which groups provide credit for small business ventures.” She cites the success of Bangladesh’s Grameen Bank explaining that in its 20-year span, it has made a profit and helped many people to rise above the poverty line. Khalikov says that she “wants to see why the principle of microlending is viable and how it is changing the lives of people and their communities.” She believes that “when applied on a large scale, bank microlending will alleviate a lot of problems.” Applicants will be notified of the Watson Foundation’s decisions on March 15.

CAMPUS CRIME
On 2/10/96, a 1989 19-foot Correct Craft “Ski Nautique” and trailer were discovered stolen from the vicinity of the Davidson College Lake Campus warehouse. The boat and trailer, valued at $15,000, were stolen sometime between 2/3/96 and 2/10/96. The theft was reported to police immediately upon discovery.

On 2/10/96, a 1991 13-foot Boston Whaler boat, 1992 Yamaha 40 Horsepower engine, and a Load Rite 1992 aluminum trailer were discovered stolen from the Davidson College Lake Campus warehouse area. The property, worth $10,000, was stolen between 2/3/96 and 2/10/96. The theft was not reported to the police until three days after it was discovered.