2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS BRIEF

SGA creates Consumer Protection Committee

The SGA Senate passed senior senator Lucian Dervan’s motion to amend the SGA by-laws last Tuesday by a vote of
33 for, one against, and one abstention. The amendment provides for the creation of a Consumer Protection Committee, chaired by
two students, one a member of the SGA and the other not a SGA senator. According to the amendment, “The
C.P.C. will perform research and analysis and compile complaints and recommendations for the express purpose of constructing a biannual report.
This report will examine issues and opinions and give recommendations regarding how future business with specific companies can be improved
or if future use of businesses should be terminated.” [Article V, Section C, 11]

Counseling Center holds second annual Depression Screening Day

This Thursday the Counseling Center will offer a special all-day depression hotline from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Dr. DeWitt
Crosby, Psychologist at the Counseling Center, says this line will be staffed by professionals at the Center. In addition, members
of the Theater department will present Faces of Depression, a dramatization of the illness at 7 p.m. in the 900
Room. Crosby says there will be “opportunities to speak with students and professionals” about depression. Depression screening events also include
a self-test for signs of the illness. The Counseling Center professionals may be reached at the DEPRESSION HOTLINE: 892-2129, an
on-campus number.

International Festival to be held October 19

Davidson’s International Student Association and the Cultural Events Committee will hold an international festival October 19, featuring information booths about
students’ homelands, cultural dishes, music, and dancing. The festival will be on the Union Patio from 11 a.m. to 2
p.m.

Annual Kendrick Kelley Lecture to be held October 17

UNC history professor Melissa Meriam Bullard will give this year's Kendrick Kelley Lecture on “Architecture of Government and Representations of
Power in Medicean Florence” on the 17th at 8 p.m. in Chambers Perkins Auditorium.

NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1996

In focus ... NEW PROFESSORS

Brenda Flanagan: taking “a step sideways”

By ELIZABETH BLACKBURN Staff Writer

According to Dr. Brenda Flanagan, “Sometimes change requires taking a step sideways,” and to Flanagan, that step was coming to
Davidson. She first came to Davidson in the fall of 1994, while on sabbatical from the University of Michigan. She
returns to Davidson this year as a Professor of Creative Writing and Fiction, African-American Literature, and Caribbean Literature. Flanagan hopes
to teach a class in African Literature in the future through the Ethnic Studies Department, of which she is the
Associate Director.

Flanagan grew up in a small village in Trinidad, a community in which, she says, people helped and looked out
for one another. She sees Davidson as a return to that sense of community she experienced as a child. To
Flanagan, Davidson has the atmosphere of a small village, a place where there is work to be done both within
the campus and in the larger Davidson community, whether it be through the church or the African-American community on the
west side. Flanagan wants more than to simply be respected because of her Ph.D.; she wants to be “down to
earth with the folk.”

When Flanagan is neither teaching nor writing, she spends her time in a creative way, such as embroidering, sewing, or
baking bread, which is a favorite pastime and is often shared with the Davidson community. She also recently joined the
Davidson Gospel Choir. In the future, Flanagan says she hopes to return to Trinidad and become involved in politics. University
of Michigan Press has just published her first novel, You Alone Are Dancin’. Flanagan is currently working on a novel
set in the South, for which she hopes Davidson will provide background information. Flanagan loves the feeling of intimacy which
marks Davidson College as well as the caliber of Davidson’s students. She says, “[Davidson’s students] are very bright, but reserved.
My challenge at Davidson is to break through that reserve.”

Great Punjab fields student, merchant parking complaints from page 1

week, Main Street has been almost devoid of cars. Brice, inThe process of contacting parking permit holders says that if
the spaces made available are not utilized, the plan will be discontinued. “There was a definite problem,” agrees a Main
Street merchant who did not want to be named, “but I’m not sure that this is the solution. This is
a college town [but the policy threatens to] alienate the school and its students.”

“I would think that if you were a merchant,” says another merchant who also refused to be named for political
reasons, “you would want to park in the back... to keep the on-street parking available for clients.”

Those who work in office space on Main Street are more positive. “It was hard for me to find a
parking place,” says one, “but now that they’ve opened it up, I’m pretty pleased with it.”

Brice says that he took into account the fact that merchants “want their customers [able to park] in front.” To
that end, he arranged for all spaces along storefronts to remain two-hour parking, available to anyone. However, in reserving for
merchants the length of Main Street which runs along the college campus, the policy draws criticism from college employees with
offices along the street and students who live off-campus. “They’d tow us just like they’d tow everybody else,” confirms one
college employee.

Brice notes that the parking lot behind the college’s old computer center is reserved for college employees. Employees counter that
this lot, currently a construction site, is often illegally used for general town parking.

The policy is under fire from students as well. “I don’t think it’s fair,” says senior Lora Chavis, “especially for
off-campus students who are also residents of this town, to be told that they don’t have an option on parking.”
Chavis says she believes that “it’s just as much the school’s responsibility as it is the town’s to find a
workable solution.”

“It seems unfair,” agrees senior Chris Gordon, who also lives off-campus, “that we are paying taxes, and we don’t have
the right to park on Main Street.”

SGA President Warren Bueed plans to bring the issue up in this week’s meeting. “[The new policy] seems like a
poor decision, one that we would like to work to overturn immediately. This indicates another problem — the lack of
communication between students and town council members. Our long-term goal would be that decisions like this would have student input,
and the SGA would be the driving force behind that student input.”

Brice says the town contacted several college administrators, including Robert Norfleet, Vice President for Business and Finance, Bob Collins, Director
of Physical Plant, and Ray Thrower, Director of Public Safety and Campus Police, over the summer to “pursue different alternatives.”
However, the school, he says, declined to become involved and “left us to our own.”

Davidson town’s Chief of Police, Hank McKiernan, self-proclaimed “Great Punjab of Parking,” also told students that “the college was invited
into the loop.”

Collins says that on the whole, the town had come up with several different alternatives that were communicated to the
college. However, when the town proposed involving college employees in parking policy enforcement, college administrators refused. According to Thrower, “We
had discussions with [town administrators]... Ultimately it was a decision that had to be made by the town.”

“[The parking situation] is all of our problem... and this is the same problem that every community has,” says Collins.
No matter what the policy, “somebody’s going to be adversely affected.”

State of the art equipment
Over 5,000 song library
Over 10 years experience in all types of party events
Reliable professional on-mike presentation and appearance

LET’S PARTY!!!
PROFESSIONAL DISC JOCKEY
Call PARTY UNLIMITED D.J. JEFF STONE for any occasion
Over 10 years experience in this area
THE BEST VARIETY OF MUSIC
704-663-0480
