DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1996 15

Volleyball wins two of three in Davidson Invitational
By Drew WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

One might find the Davidson volleyball bench players a bit odd—they refuse to sit on the bench. “They instituted that rule themselves,” said head coach Lisa Radford, “partly to stay warm, and partly to stay upbeat and focused on the game.” The hustling, intense attitude paid off this weekend, with two decisive victories against Howard and Charleston Southern. The Wildcats' lone setback was a 3-0 loss to Southern Conference rival Furman on Saturday afternoon.

“You’ve got to give them credit. They are an experienced team and it was good to play them and see what kind of competition we are up against,” said Radford. The Paladins won, 15-11, 15-2, and 15-10. Their blocking duo of Kristin Klessing and Amy Dakes held the Wildcats at bay for most of the match.

The games against Howard and Charleston Southern were a different story. “I’m very pleased with the way we played, everyone got a lot of playing time, and those first game jitters are out of the way,” said Radford after her team walked away with a 15-1, 15-7, 15-6 victory over Howard on Friday night. Lois Ann Bumgarner led the Wildcats with 10 kills, while Audra Bogdanski (11 digs) and Leslie Carbone (3 blocks) provided plenty of defensive support.

They capped a successful tournament by beating CSU, 15-5, 16-14, 7-15, 15-9, on Saturday night. Freshman Audra Bogdanski played a major role in the victory, recording numerous digs and a kill to clinch the come-from-behind second game victory. “I’m very excited about this year’s team,” said Bogdanski, a Milwaukee native and Wisconsin All-State volleyball player. “I think we have a lot of potential.”

The Wildcats travel to the Memphis University Tournament next weekend, which includes Mississippi, Middle Tennessee State, Memphis, and Southwestern Louisiana. But before leaving, Radford hopes to improve on the team’s blocking and overall team discipline.

Aaron Kadoch
Janet Duncan and Jamilah Sawyer block back the ball during Davidson Invitational play this weekend.

Seventh straight Deep South title set firmly in field hockey’s sights
By Caro REYNOLDS
Staff Writer

Having won six straight Deep South Field Hockey Championships, the Davidson field hockey team is back, and prepared to capture a seventh. “Our attitude is so very positive,” said junior Erin Smith. “This is one of the best teams I’ve seen.”

But this fall’s schedule includes only four of eighteen games at home. They will open the season against Westchester University (Pa.) on Sept. 7. The Wildcats open at home on Oct. 1 against Radford, a match-up head coach Betsy Pryor is hungry to win. Her team has never beaten Radford, though it has tied and lost in overtime. She thinks this year’s team has the talent to do it.

“I am so excited about this team,” said Pryor. “They have already gelled. They’re so tight.” She believes the amount of road trips could actually help, though she has some qualified concerns. “There is always major bonding on the bus rides,” she said. “But, turf field hockey is a faster game and on a poor quality grass field, the home team can be accustomed to the irregularities and unique characteristics (of the field).”

“Road trips can kill you or save you,” said captain Mary Dowd. “I’m sure it’s going to go really...“Well for us.” And according to Pryor, the strongest attribute of the team is its unity. For this reason, she will keep the roster at 18 or 19 players. “It’s a smaller team than usual, but I’ve found it’s better for the attitude and tightness of the players,” she said. She added that another team strength is the physical defensive line, including freshman back Kim Ceci, a very steady player with good fundamental skills. Filling a void left from last year’s seniors, Kate Schoening is also expected to make a contribution at left midfield and is having no problem fulfilling her important offensive role. Lisa Holthaus, another rookie with a good work ethic, will probably be playing center forward. 

The combination of new talent and the experience of strong veteran players makes captains Mandy Neidert and Dowd very optimistic and coach Pryor eager to play arch-rival Appalachian State. “App. State lives, eats, breathes, and dreams to beat us,” Pryor stated. “They get better and better each year, and this year we have to go up there to play on their turf.” Even beating ACC opponents Wake Forest and Virginia and Big 10 giant Ohio State is not out of the question. “We need to beat Ohio State to prove that last year’s loss was a fluke,” said Pryor with a grin. “We are going to have fun.”

Cross country looks for big improvements
By Ros Pore and Will Bradshaw
Staff Writer and Sports Editor

The men’s cross country team, thanks to a solid recruiting class, is about to make a name for itself. “This is the best recruiting class ever,” coach Gary Andrew stated. “This team could be the best ever.” Last year the team placed ninth out of ten in conference; this year they are hoping to place at least fifth in their division. Will Isenhour, one of ten freshman recruits, was a four-time MVP in high school. “It’s great to be on a team where everybody is pushing each other to do better,” Isenhour said. “There is a lot of prospect in the future.” “We don’t have to rely on the freshmen,” comments captain David Foss, “but they are definitely a good addition.”

Returning upperclassmen, such as MVP Josh Cookson, Foss, Tripp Franklin, Jonathan Fly, and Keith Gordon, are helping lead them to a successful year. A new sophomore recruit from Washington University, Rick Cratsenberg, recently recovered from major knee surgery, but is expected to make an immediate impact. “He was a very talented runner in high school,” Andrew said about Cratsenberg. “He could challenge Cookson for the number one spot this fall.” The team’s first and only home meet is October 5.

OUTDOORS
177 - Exit 28 Shops on the Green Cornelius, NC
Mailing Address: 20212 Knox Rd. Suite 1 Davidson, NC 28036
(704) 892-1848

7th Annual Demo Day
Canoes and Kayaks
Saturday, September 14th
10 a.m. - 3 p.m.
Ramsey Creek Park
~FREE ADMISSION~
Door prizes: 15% discount on Paddlesport Accessories for Demo Participants the day of the demo.

ALL BOATS ON SALE

Wednesday is Davidson College night at...
Great drink specials!
19501-4 HWY 73 W Cornelius, NC 28031
(one mile west off exit 28 - next to Irish Cue)
(704) 892-4335

Faculty and students always receive a 10% discount on food with Davidson College ID.
Open 7 days a week - 11 a.m. until ?
VISA, MasterCard, and American Express welcome.