THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1996

Wildcat Rugby open season with stunning success
By WILL BALDWIN
Staff Writer

Early Saturday afternoon on the IMAC fields, the Davidson rugby team opened their spring season with a victory against Southwest Virginia Community College. The large crowd was not disappointed as the Wildcats handed SWVCC a 49-0 loss. Despite the muddy conditions, Davidson maintained possession of the ball for most of the game. Seven players scored for the Cats. Bob Yarbrough and Hank Ackerman led the way with two tries apiece. Yarbrough broke several tackles and carried opposing players into the try zone for both his scores, while Ackerman used several cuts against the grain and his speed to score. Matt Burkhardt and Dave Derrick each picked up a try by breaking tackles and busting into the try zone. Burkhardt also made two conversion kicks.

During the entire first half, the Davidson pack manhandled the Virginia team, pushing them all over the field. The front line of Jason Allen, John Spainhour, Mike Lassiter, and after an injury to Lassiter, Chris Williams, dominated their opposition, continuously pushing them over the ball. The balls the pack won in the scrum, as well as those controlled by Will Baldwin on the line outs, helped the team keep possession. In the second half, Jeremy Potter, a ’95 graduate, scored a try in his first five minutes back on the field. Thayer Long, Graham Powell, and Keith Davis continued to batter Southwest Virginia with bruising runs up the gut of the defense, and Long and Davis scored in the second half. Unfortunately, Dunn Mileham injured his shoulder in his first ever rugby match. The team hopes he will be able to return later this season.

Wildcats drop three in a row, look to regroup
By DANTE L. MOTZ
Staff Writer

The Davidson Women’s Basketball team has struggled the past couple of weeks, losing to Marshall 87-64 on January 29, Furman 69-66 on Tuesday, and 86-64 to Appalachian State on Saturday. After the Marshall game, Thundering Herd coaches told Davidson coach John Filar that it was the best game Marshall played all season. They dominated the Wildcats offensively, hitting 11 three-pointers compared to four by Davidson. In Marshall’s next game, they beat nationally recognized Kentucky.

“The Furman game was the most disappointing loss of the season,” Filar said. Defeating the Paladins would have solidified second place for the Wildcats, but Filar said they came out flat. “We’ve got to come out ready to play every night. We’re not talented enough yet to play with just a few players ready, we need everyone to be ready, every night,” he said. Against Furman, Jennifer Sanborn scored 15 points, Jennie Vanlerberghe 13, and Kristen Ferrucci added 12. But this, and nine points in the last 47 seconds were not enough, as the Wildcats suffered from several defensive lapses. “We gave up way too many easy baskets, our rebounding wasn’t there, and our inside defense was poor,” Coach Filar said.

Wildcat guard Jennifer Sanborn emphasized the need for team play and consistency. “A couple of players played well, but we’re not playing as a team. We need to step up and cut down on the defensive let-downs.” On Saturday, Appalachian State outplayed Davidson. The first-place Mountaineers used an early 11-0 run to jump out to a 47-24 halftime lead. The Wildcats played the Mountaineers even in the second half, but they could not overcome the early deficit. The Wildcats play at Western Carolina on Monday, and return home to face Georgia Southern Saturday at 7:30. Davidson is now 10-9 overall, and 4-5 in the conference. Despite the school record of conference wins, the Wildcats are disappointed with their recent lapse.

Wrestling team loses Harvey to ankle injury
By JOHN ROG
Staff Writer

Amidst the ice and snow, when almost everything was canceled (except classes, of course), the Davidson wrestlers hit the mat and fought rival Duke in what promised to be a rough match. But when all was said and done, the Wildcats found themselves at the short end of a 43-3 loss. The team was finally able to send a healthy lineup to the mat, but for some reason, the wrestlers did not perform as they had hoped. “We wrestled very flat. I am not sure what it was, but the whole team, even the guys that have been wrestling very well, didn’t seem to be into the match,” said Coach Tom Oddo. Chip Stewart collected the only victory, asHe decisively defeated his Heavyweight opponent. Jason Deaton, Christian Baker, and Ben Wall all wrestled close matches but were unable to overcome the point margin. The team traveled to Charleston, SC to wrestle the Citadel on Saturday and went on to Georgia to grapple against Georgia State and UTC on Sunday. The latter two programs consistently produce good wrestlers, so Davidson faced top-notch competition in preparation for the final few weeks of wrestling. However, the team will have to wrestle without the help of co-captain Sean Harvey, who severely sprained his ankle in practice last week. After finally being cleared to wrestle by the trainers, Harvey injured his other leg and might be out for the season. This weekend the wrestlers return home for important matches against conference foes Longwood and Campbell. The first match should start at 9:30 a.m., and the second at 11:00 a.m. With a nearly full lineup, the wrestlers should be able to compete as a team, but they will have to do so without Harvey.

Welcome from page 1

"Stay the same," Murphy said. "I don’t believe that athletics is fighting a different battle than any other part of the school. I think our objectives are the same. Athletics is a major part of campus life. That is what is attractive about the Davidson experience."

Davidson funds its athletic program, but Tech’s athletic department is autonomous and must raise its own money through ticket sales, the media market, and independent contributions. He sees potential for Davidson teams to create more of their own revenue. "There are always going to be needs and there are alternative ways of funding," the new AD said. "Any additional dollars could take pressure off the general budget of this school."

Murphy believes that media coverage will bring increasing revenues to Davidson, especially as the men’s and women’s basketball and soccer teams continue to become more competitive. He also sees potential in the growing Charlotte sports market. "Davidson has had tradition as a basketball school. We are witnessing a return of that tradition," Murphy said. He also cites the importance of soccer as a growth sport. "As more and more children grow up playing soccer, more talented players will arrive at the college level. Davidson has an attractive program that will grow and improve as the pool of talented college players expands."

Murphy sees Davidson’s success in fund-raising and attracting quality student-athletes as a product of establishing good relationships with alumni and developing its reputation as a small school capable of competing with larger institutions. One of the limits Murphy sees on sports such as wrestling, field hockey, track, and swimming at Davidson is the difficulty of finding a full schedule. There are not many schools in Davidson’s geographical area that are Division I and similar in size. "Most Division I area schools are in major national conferences like the ACC," Murphy said. "It can be hard to find room in their schedules to compete in a non-conference game or match."

The football team has a geographical waiver for this reason and is classified as Division I-AA. "Davidson is a lone voice crying in the wind," Murphy said about the school’s non-scholarship football program. "We will see a number of schools moving towards non-scholarship football. Football has always meant a lot to Davidson, and when more programs follow our example, the program will benefit."

Similar factors inhibit the development of new varsity teams like men’s lacrosse. "It would be a real challenge to make a reasonable schedule," Murphy said. The gender equity policy of the NCAA is another powerful force influencing what sports teams Davidson fields. "Terry Holland did a great job balancing gender equity and I think we need to work hard to continue that," Murphy said about his predecessor.

Murphy believes that as AD at Davidson it is important to consider the overall experience that a student has. "So much depends upon consensus building on anything and everything. We must strive toward a common goal," he said. "It’s important that I sit and listen and learn the most I can these next few weeks."

LOOKING FOR A JOB? Try hot spots rated as having the Nation's "#1 Pro-Business attitude." Get a free information packet by calling our automated information system at (704) 845-4636, by writing to The Charlotte Chamber--P.O. Box 32785--Charlotte, NC 28232, or via internet, http://www.charweb.org/charlotte/chamber/index.html. Charlotte, NC, one of the country's...