MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1996 7 The Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
JILL WILLIAMS

Business Manager
MARY CLARE JALONICK

Associate Editors
CAROLINE BYNUM
WILL BRADSHAW

Advertising Managers
TERESA WHITE
MICHAEL KRUSE
BETH BACON
MEREDITH LUCIUS

News Editors
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
BEN DeLISA

Circulation Manager
RANDY HARTWELL

Copy Editors
CARRIE BLACKBURN
NINA BLOUNT
CLAY LENHART
KRISTEN RICHARDSON

Opinions Editors
JILL WILLIAMS
DANIEL MOTZ
BRAD CHASE
ERIC PENDERGRASS

Arts & Living Editor
SUSAN RUGGIERO

Sports Editors
McNEIL CARSWELL

Photo Editor
RANDY HARTWELL

Web Page Managers
CARRIE BLACKBURN
NINA BLOUNT
CLAY LENHART
KRISTEN RICHARDSON

Cartoonist
GREG GARRISON

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

LETTERS

No excuses.

Congrats, Reach Out

Finally, the Jettons are moving in. People gathered ‘round 537 Westside Terrace Sunday and watched as the family walked into
their new home. After a year of sweat and cooperation, Reach Out and the Habitat Coordinators — Graduate Smita Donthamsetty,
Seniors Meredith Strong, Katie Brasfield, and Bill Abrams, Junior Ben Kinnamon, Sophomore Saralyn J. Damanti, and Service coordinator Catherine Turner,
to name a few — have an accomplishment to hold dear to their hearts, a project that will grow with
years and give for generations.

Davidson should pull together like this more often. Every week students worked on this project in some form, whether they
were pounding nails, selling t-shirts or calling potential donors. Students paid, persisted, and planned, pulling together all sorts of different
talents and personalities to raise money and gain support.

In an editorial almost a year ago, the past editors of The Davidsonian wrote, “[The work of Habitat for Humanity]
isn’t just to build a foundation for a house, but a strong ideological foundation on which we all can build
in every endeavor of our lives.” The lives of Jettons have been affected by the Davidson Community, and Davidson has
been affected by the Jettons. We are lucky to have had the chance to build this house, and we owe
it all to a few people who conceived the idea and founded the project. Congratulations, Davidson, and (even more appropriately)
congratulations Reach Out. Every day students participate in service activities, but rarely are the results so tangible or is the
support so widespread.

Our Town

Last week the SGA met with town leaders in order to become acquainted with them. This was more than a
good idea — it was a step in the right direction. Davidson students have always had a good relationship with
the town, for they are so closely related that they are not, truly, different entities. However, interaction between the two
is minimal beyond the occasional seasonal event — if we work to change that, then maybe our mutual interests will
come to fruition with greater ease. With successful communication, we may be able to avoid problems like the parking scenario
earlier this semester. Town members are friendly and interested, and we are lucky for that. But we should also get
to know town merchants, and try to work with them as well. Davidson can be a town that holds students
captive, or a town that invites students to join the community. By working toward good relations, the SGA has promoted
a vital student interest. We encourage them to pursue this course, for it is an important issue that students confront
every day.

To the Editors:

We were deeply saddened, as were all members of the community, by the recent incident in which a threatening remarks
to one student and assaulted another one with a knife. But we were astonished and offended to read in the
November 11 issue the remarks attributed to Lt. D.E. McLaurin, the head of investigations at the Campus Police.You quoted him
as saying that the incident was apparently “not intentional,” that with the pressure students are under here...; they, [go out
and drink], and alcohol changes their personality. They then “get carried away,” and “do things that they might regret.” We
trust that Lt. McLaurin was misquoted. Such remarks have the effect, whether intended or not, of excusing behavior that is,
in fact, totally unacceptable. It is insulting to students, and incompatible with the responsibility they rightly claim as adults, to
suggest that the “pressure” they are under is so intense that they may on occasion over-indulge in alcohol, and then
“get carried away” and do things which they might regret and which in any case, they never intended. We are
all under “pressure,” but adults learn to handle that pressure responsibly. According to your story, Lt. McLaurin concluded that the
offending student “doesn’t seem like the kind of person who would [do this kind of thing].” We should not have
to point out that, in fact, he apparently did. It would be deeply troubling if those entrusted with campus security
really do hold such a “boys-will-be-boys” attitude toward reckless behavior and terrifying violence. If such a casual dismissal of personal
accountability is widely shared among members of the Davidson community, then it is hard to see how it will ever
again provide the secure and responsible environment in which genuine academic inquiry may flourish.

Jonathan P. Berkey
Department of History

Mark C. Carnes
Department of Religion

Jeanne N. O’Neill
Department of Classics

More than reported

To the Editors:

The article last week on the Project Life Bone Marrow Drive erroneously stated that our fundraising goal was $1500, and
that we had raised $1200 over the semester. Actually, our goal is $15,000 and we have raised slightly over $12,000
to type approximately 400 people. I would like to thank the volunteers who have given countless hours to fundraising for
Project Life, and to recognize the tremendous show of support from students, faculty, staff, and the community for our program.
Without this support, we would not be able to continue our drive. I would also like to encourage anyone who
has not been typed to join us at our drives on Tuesday, November 19, and Wednesday, November 20, from 11
a.m. to 3 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the Union.

Thank you.

Liz Abernathy '97

A round of applause

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. One copy per
student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.
Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the
editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per
year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editors:

The members of FLAG would like to thank all sponsors, models, and everyone who helped make the Third Annual FLAG
Fashion Show a great success. Over 400 students, faculty, and staff packed the Chambers Gallery on November 9. We raised
over $1500 which will benefit three organizations, including Time Out Youth, The House of Mercy, and the FLAG Scholarship. Time
Out Youth is a youth group and counseling center for gay, lesbian, and bisexual teens in Charlotte. If you would
like a copy of the video, please contact Valerie Hansard at 896-6011. We hope everyone had a good time, and
models—get your show ready for next year!! Thanks again!!

The members of FLAG

Davidsonian t-shirts are cool. Get one of your own. Call (704) 892-2148.
