Che Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXVII MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1996 NUMBER 23

Minors approved by majority of faculty
By ANN HATFIELD
Staff Writer

In a decision that surprised many, the faculty voted in favor of minors 63-41 on Tuesday, April 2. Two faculty
members chose to abstain. By passing the proposal, faculty members agreed that minors might be offered at the discretion of
each department. The Council hopes that some minors will be in place by academic year ’96-’97, but expects that many
will not be offered until the following year.

This news comes as a result of the proposal formulated by the Council for Academic Affairs as well as an
SGA resolution. Liz Abernathy, Co-chair of the Council for Academic Affairs, says, “We are naturally very excited about the faculty’s
approval of the minors option. Many members approached us to say how impressed they were by the enthusiastic response from
students in support of minors. We are grateful to students and faculty for their support and look forward to seeing
minors become a part of the academic tradition at Davidson.”

Professor of History Russell Snapp says he is “not surprised by the results because of the strong support voiced by
many students,” and adds, “That [support] definitely influenced the faculty.” However, he says, “I think we might have considered the
proposal at greater length...” While Snapp says that he believes that “minors probably are a good idea for

The trustee’s challenge: An in-depth look at the issue
By ADAM HICKEY
Special section

RELIGION AT DAVIDSON?
Crossing paths: angry students fight over symbols
By NARESH NAGELLA
Assistant News Editor

It is likely that within the week yet another major date will be added into the history of Davidson’s religious
affiliation. It is this weekend, April 18-21, that the Trustees will convene on campus for yet another semi-annual meeting. Raised
as a significant issue during the trustee retreat in the Spring of 1993, faculty and students alike are waiting to
see if any of the bylaws which govern the religious affiliation of the faculty and officers of the college will
be changed.

Three main questions await the Trustees’ answers: Should Religion professors have to give “evidence of strong Christian convictions”? Should all
Trustees — even those elected from alumni associations — be “active members of a Christian Church”? And must the President
demonstrate a “Christian faith and commitment” through an “affiliation with the Presbyterian Church”? According to President Kuykendall, the Board

See Religion on page 4

Easter brought more than religious celebration to campus. It brought a good deal of discussion, debate, and controversy. Continuing a
year-old tradition, the Fellowship of Christian Athletes, Intervarsity Christian Fellowship, and other Christian faculty and staff set up their Easter
display consisting of three 5 and 1/2 feet tall crosses in between dormitory row and Chambers to remind everyone of
“the true meaning of Easter.”

Last year three students erected another cross covered in Rose's Easter flyers juxtaposed to the crosses set up by the
groups, along with a small wooden bunny covered with Bible verses. However, this year, those opposed to the display were
direct in showing their disagreement. First, three miniature crosses were anonymously put up next to the original display. A sign
indicated that if the crosses were real the display would be a “thousand times larger.”

See Crosses on page 5Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Some students,” he voices some concern that students may feel pressured to adopt a minor when greater exploration of the
curriculum might be more beneficial. Professor of Chemistry Mitch Rhea says, "I've got no quarrel with minors. I think if
you are willing to put forth the effort, you deserve recognition... I think that by and large, this department is
in favor of them." In the wake of this student victory, however, many are left asking “what now”? The proposal
defines minors as a set of five or six courses designated by a participating department.

See Minors on page 3

Trustees to decide on alcohol policy
CCRL recommends ban on kegs, but not purchase of alcohol
By Brooke BAGWELL
Staff Writer

At their meeting Wednesday, the CCRL voted on their recommendations concerning the alcohol policy. These will go from CCRL-ation when
he addresses the Trustees, who will vote on the issue. The CCRL decided to recommend the ban of kegs, but
eliminated the part of the clause regarding the purchase of alcohol by each house. Should the trustees accept the proposal,
the decision whether to purchase alcohol or not is put into each house's hands. BYOB would be an option but
not a necessity, and houses purchasing alcohol would not mandate whether alcohol can be purchased by members of the court,
so this is not a major change. SGA President Warren Buford emphasizes this. “If approved, our

See CCRL on page 3

Reviving the legend
Two freshmen want to bring the tour guide tale to life with debate
By Brad D. CHASE
Staff Writer

The balconies of Eumenean and Philanthropic Halls have been silent for years. While the common tour guide lore about the
debating traditions sticks in many students’ minds, no one seems to care about why this tradition has ceased at Davidson.
Almost no one, that is. Two Davidson freshmen, Austin Rios and Scott Geier, have started an effort to revive the
tradition of debates from Eu and Phi Halls. “Austin and I were walking out of the library one evening when
we noticed Eu and Phi Hall’s depicted on the opposing sides of the entrance. We thought it would be neat
to revive that tradition,” says Geier. “I think that the students are generally apathetic and this would be one way
to increase involvement.” Sara Beasley, Visiting Instructor in English and advisor to the proposed debate group, says, “I really would
love to see it happen. I think that it is not only intellectually exciting, but it is also a tradition
to revive.” “Imagine one person debating another in front of the student body,” says Geier, “no one is going to
want to lose, it would be like losing face.” While there is a Phi Society in existence now, they do
not stage debates in the traditional format. The group, which meets Sunday evenings, discusses current events, books, and other issues.
According to Geier, “we have some research to do before this happens. We want to possibly have a preliminary debate
and see how the students react. I think that it will really catch on.”

---

Note: The text has been cleaned up for readability while preserving the original meaning and punctuation.
