~ Sports 14 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1996.

Welcome to the Great Outdoors
By JOHN ROE
Staff Writer

Sometimes I just have to get away from it all, and in my case, this usually involves a trip to
the great outdoors. With the increasing amount of dammed and polluted rivers, and the disappearance of many forest areas due
to logging, it is getting hard to find a place to enjoy a day on the water or in the
field. There are still places where the stag’s antlers grow thick with age, and the native trout seem to attack
any old fly with reckless abandon. This summer, I found that sometimes it takes the extra effort to find such
a place.

In July, I trekked to the Smoky Mountains with a backpack full of three days' gear and a fly rod,
of course. My destination was unclear, but I knew that there were two streaks of blue that met at the
bottom of a gorge on my map. I imagined the two creeks meeting to form a great blue pool, deep
and full of trout. There were no trails leading in, so I followed a maze of game paths and creeks,
tumbled through a tangle of rhododendron, and slid down a muddy bank into a small forest of stinging nettle. The
journey down was difficult to say the least, but what awaited at the bottom was well worth the hardship.

For the next couple of days, I enjoyed fantastic fishing. Nearly every time my fly hit the water, another eager
brook trout exploded on the surface, seemingly trying to dismantle the combination of hackle, thread, and fur on the end
of my fly line. I caught brookies, rainbows, and browns, identified bear, deer, and bobcat tracks, and even found time
to explore other tributaries. The best part of it all, however, was that I had the whole place to myself.
Not many people were willing to put forth the extra effort to find this creek, leaving me with the chance
to enjoy fly-fishing in an unspoiled wilderness setting.

There are many places similar to this one in the Smoky Mountains, Wilson Creek, and Linville Gorge areas and Stone
Mountain State Park, most of which I am still looking for. I will not tell you the name of the
creek I spoke of for reasons both you and I well know, but an adventurous attitude and the right research
can put you in a place where the native brook trout still thrive, or where the buck dies of old
age. Sometimes a promising lead or hunch will lead to disappointment, but when you find that magic, once-in-a-lifetime place, it
will be hard to return to the crowded woods and waters that are easier to reach.

Jon Roe shows off his catch after his trip to Linville Gorge.

WILDCAT WEEK

Field Hockey
Saturday @ Ohio U. (Noon)
Sunday vs. Central Michigan @ Athens, Ohio

Football
Saturday @ University of the South (1:30)

Men’s Cross Country
Saturday @ Catamount Classic, Cullowhee, N.C.

Men’s Soccer
Wednesday @ App. St. (7:30)
Saturday vs. VMI (7:00)

Women’s Soccer
Saturday @ Ga. Southern
Sunday @ Coll. of Charleston (3:00)

Volleyball
Tuesday vs. Winthrop (7:00)
Friday @ N.C. A & T (7:00)

Men’s soccer routs Citadel, splits two in Las Vegas
By DANIEL MOTZ
Copy Editor

After routing The Citadel on Wednesday, the men’s soccer team split games at the UNLV Coors Light Classic in Las
Vegas last weekend. The Wildcats proved to be too much for The Citadel. Phil Julien’s first goal, assisted by Robert
Clarke 29:06 into the contest, ignited an explosive Davidson offensive output. Julien followed with another goal and assist, Robert Clarke
added a goal, and sophomore Carlos Bowen, who missed all of last season with a knee injury, notched his first
collegiate points with an impressive two-goal performance.

“Our offense really gelled today,” coach Charlie Slagle said. “It was nice to rotate the guys and see everyone perform.”

The Wildcats, riding a four-game winning streak into the weekend, were able to sustain the pace Friday against St. Mary’s
of California. After falling behind, 1-0, Davidson quickly evenedthe game at the half with a goal from senior forward Bryce
Jewett assisted by Dennis Buck. After the teams played a scoreless second frame, Robert Clarke rips a shot during their
drubbing of The Citadel. The first overtime saw Robert Clarke punch in a goal from 20 yards to give the
Wildcats the 2-1 victory, their fifth in a row. On Sunday, perhaps after a late night at the casinos, Davidson
fell to the hometown Runnin’ Rebels. Vegas took advantage of single half goals by Phil Detmer and Michael Riero to
roll to a 2-0 win. The Wildcats, now 5-2, accelerate into the next portion of the schedule. Wins against App.
St. and VMI are key for Davidson to gain confidence for their next big test against UNC-Greensboro.

Last year’s stars test pro waters
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

Quinn Harwood, who averaged 14 points per game last season and earned All-Conference honors, was offered $165,000 to play in
Spain’s top professional league. But he was then invited to play in the Chicago Bulls’ summer league (8-10 games) in
Salt Lake City.

Harwood’s agent advised him to reject the original $165,000 and try to up his European standing or even get some
NBA bites with a good performance in Utah. But according to coach Bob McKillop, the versatile 6-9 post player had
a “so-so Chicago Bull experience and as a result, passed on the chance in Spain.” Therefore, Harwood is in limbo
and has been working out on campus with this year’s team, staying in shape until another opportunity arises. That opportunity
will likely come with today's CBA draft in which he is expected to be chosen.

Brandon “Ozone” Williams (18.2 ppg last year), who pulled in All-Conference first team accolades in his sophomore and senior seasons,
was flown to Greece last month to negotiate a deal in the neighborhood of $100,000 with an Athens squad. But
Williams had an outstanding Indiana Pacers summer camp and Indiana coach Larry Brown took notice. Brown told McKillop last month
that Ozone, who played forward at Davidson, has a future in the NBA as a shooting guard, but must first
learn to play the position at a high level in Europe.

Point guard Chris Alpert, the school’s all-time assist king, has seen interest from teams in England, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, and
the Czech Republic. But earlier this year, the 5-11 court leader was cut by the Long Island Surf of the
U.S. Basketball League. “I’m still optimistic that he will be playing pro basketball on the European continent,” said McKillop.

More on Minlend

When guard Ray Minlend did not show up to classes, his transfer to St. Francis (N.Y.) College was made official.
According to head coach Bob McKillop, the 6-3 Cameroonian spent the first four or five weeks of the spring period
working out extremely hard, anticipating a prominent scoring and leadership role this season. “But by mid-April his enthusiasm somewhat changed,”
the coach said. “He began investigating the thought of transferring at the end of April.” Minlend wanted to pursue a
more career-oriented education than was offered here at Davidson and apparently thought St. Francis was the right place. “I was
shocked, very surprised,” stated McKillop. “To this day, I’m still puzzled. I think (Minlend’s decision) is a short-term solution for
a long-range issue. St. Francis and Davidson are on two different planets,” he continued, adding that both St. Francis’ academic
and basketball opportunities pale in comparison to Davidson’s. “He (Minlend) was very productive for us for two years, but the
team obviously will find some way to replace him,” said McKillop, eager to look ahead. “Raymond is replaceable. I don’t
think the loss of five seniors is. If we’re going to be in this thing, we better be as united
and focused as possible.” Especially considering this year’s schedule, dotted with some of the nation’s elite. The Wildcats face Tim
Duncan and Wake Forest in Winston-Salem, Duke in Cameron Indoor Stadium, UMass over Christmas Break in Puerto Rico, and host
Ole Miss, Southern Methodist, and UNC Charlotte.
