By KaTe GREENE & Jason SCHMIDT
Concert Reviewers

As the chaos of First Night Down descended upon Davidson’s campus, the sounds of numerous bands echoed across the court
in competition with each other. Although every fraternity house tempted freshmen and upperclassmen to join their party by blasting music
of all genres, Gainesville’s Sister Hazel and Baltimore’s The All Mighty Senators stood out from the masses.

The All Mighty Senators took the floor at the PiKa late Friday night. The funk-jazz band consisted of a full
horn section and the standards — drums, electric bass, and guitar, which produced completely original music. The multi-ethnic conglomeration uncannily
resembled the members of the house.

The horn section played in musical realms not usually attained by the generic college frat band (i.e. The Nathan Sheppard
Band). Four musicians combined their instruments, two trumpets, a trombone, and a saxophone, to create the unique brass sound. The
overall sound of the section varied from jazz lounge music to P-Funk as they played off of the rest of
the band with the unified scream of classic brass.

The band played two sets for a total playing time of well over three hours. “E-Jam,” one of their best
songs, took off with wailing bass and staccato vocals. The vocals are not quite lyrical in the sense of coherent
melodies, yet they are not quite the rap-ness of RUN DMC. The closest description of them is “speak-sing” vocals. While
these vocals were not outstanding, they complemented the sound of the band as a whole.

Another song that stood out was “One Way Street,” with its opening of bluegrass, acoustic, clean guitar, horns, and perplexing
vocals. The saxophone stood out with some occasional solos, but for the most part, the song is unified and not
a musical jam. It kept the crowd moving in jumps and various dancing styles.

While The All Mighty Senators played in PiKa, Gainesville’s Sister Hazel jammed at Sig Ep with a sound that was
diametrically opposed. Sister Hazel previously visited Davidson’s campus last spring for Kappa Sig’s Spring Frolics celebration. The band consists of
four boys playing drums, acoustic guitar, electric bass, and oddities such as tambourines. The vocals, sung primarily by Ken Block,
had country overtones but folk-like harmonies. The vocals alternate regularly with choruses and guitar solos to create a classic sound.
The guitar riffs had the classic Vertical Horizon dual, blending sounds. The electric bass, on the other hand, enhanced the
band’s sound and differentiated it from its predecessors, such as Jackopierce.

What made this band worth seeing was the enthusiastic crowd. It was hard to even get inside the door of
Sig Ep, let alone get up to the front of the stage. Smiling, dancing, and singing college students were everywhere.
Sophomore, Thirza Sayers, was overheard as saying, “this band rocks,” to the complete agreement of all those around her.

Jeffery Cromartie, Davidsonian’s Chef-in-Residence, is on pilgrimage of embodiment this week.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1996

By Dorcas AND GOMORRAH
Consulting Astrologists

Libra (September 23-October 22) — This week conceive immaculately. It’s more fun than you’d think. Commune with Jesus. Rock with
Him until the break of dawn. Lucky Day: The Third day.

Scorpio (October 23-November 21) — Worship the Yankees. Lucky Place: Flushing, N.Y. Lucky CD: Air Supply’s Greatest Hits, track 6.
Lucky Dukes of Hazard character: Uncle Jesse.

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21) — Speak slowly, avoiding the letter “r.” Lucky person: Any South Carolinian. Lucky Place: Possum Kingdom,
S.C. Unlucky Senator: Stromin’ my pain. Lucky Show: Rhoda.

Capricorn (December 22-January 19) — Make a truncated dodecahedron. Lucky Rhombus: The Denny’s sign. Lucky Old School Van Damme Movie:
Bloodsport. Lucky Michael Jackson lyric: Shamone or Tenderoni.

Aquarius (January 20-February 18) — Instead of declining balance, barter with your pelts, skins, freshmen boys, and other things you’ve
trapped. Bring them to the Outpost. Lucky Place: Fort McHenry. Lucky Party: Donner. Lucky Food: Rump Roast.

Pisces (February 19-March 20) — Rechart the Viking’s course for adventure. Remember: Greenland is a ruse, it is icy. Iceland
is green. Those tricky Vikings. Lucky Person: Leif Erickson. Eric the Red. Lucky Ship Burial: Sutton Hoo.

Aries (March 21-April 19) — This week celebrate Barbra Streisand even though she’s a megalomaniac. Consult your neighborhood yenta. Lucky
Mantra: Lowenstein, Lowenstein.

Taurus (April 20-May 20) — Explore the ruins of an ancient city. Be mindful of pestilence and plague. Unlucky Cloud:
Locust. Lucky Crop: not one that locusts eat.

Gemini (May 21-June 20) — Go to Pennsylvania. Hershey. Bring a lot of diversions because Pennsylvania ain't so exciting. Sorry
Hannah. Lucky Family: East Coast. Lucky Acronyms: ABC, BBD. Lucky Place: Intercourse, PA.

Cancer (June 21-July 22) — You are the Light of the World. Everything pure and sweet in this earthly hell
is a result of you. Lucky Place for Everyone Else: in your magnanimous presence.

Leo (July 23-August 22) — Take the D.J. test. What is the name of Falco’s other hit? If you know,
report to the Davidsonian, and work with us to combat evil. Read The Sound and the Fury and ask the
essential question... Who's talking?

Virgo (August 23-September 22) — Celebrate nature. Is polypropylene a natural fibre? Lucky Alternative: High toads.
