6 THE DAVIDSONIAN ELSEWHERE MONDAY, APRIL 22, 1996

Week in Washington

Minimum wage increase?

By Davin SANTOSHI
Washington Week Correspondent

Congress is nearly certain to vote on a substantial increase in the minimum wage during this session, which many congressional observers are confident will pass. Sen. Bob Dole (R-KS), the assured Republican presidential nominee, has blocked a vote on raising the minimum wage in the Senate. Using a procedural maneuver earlier in the week, he prevented immigration legislation from being considered so Democrats could not attach a minimum wage increase to the bill. House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-GA), has used the House’s strict rules to prevent a vote on the minimum wage.

Abandoning their leadership, 21 moderate House Republicans introduced a bill on Wednesday to raise the minimum wage from $4.25 to $5.25 per hour over a 15-month period. This is ten cents higher than the increase President Clinton proposes. According to Rep. John Boehner (R-OH), the fourth-ranking House Republican, “there appears to be an awful lot of support” for the increase. With a growing number of Republicans joining President Clinton in calling for an increase, Boehner does not believe the leadership can realistically prevent a vote.

Democrats hope to use this House action to press Dole to permit a Senate vote. “Opposition to the minimum wage is clearly dwindling in both the Senate and the House. . . I don’t know why the majority leader would climb on a sinking ship,” said Sen. Edward Kennedy (D-MA), the sponsor of the increase. Dole said Friday that he may include the minimum wage as a bargaining chip in other legislation that Democrats oppose, such as a $500 child tax credit. Gingrich said Thursday that if the Senate voted on the increase, the House would follow.

Many Senate Republicans believe that Democrats are forcing a vote on the bill to embarrass Dole’s presidential campaign. Even Dole conceded that “you can’t explain” voting against an increase. Although not eager to endorse a higher minimum wage, Republicans do not want to be seen as obstructing such a politically symbolic bill. “Be realistic, it would carry here,” said Sen. Nancy Kassebaum (R-KS).

The buying power of the minimum wage is at its lowest level in nearly 40 years. It is estimated that 12.2 million people, or 11.7 percent of the workforce, earn between $4.25 and $5.15 per hour. Of this group, a quarter are teenagers and half are part-time employees. As a “ripple effect” of increasing the wage floor, those who earn up to $6 per hour could see pay increases.

Increasing the minimum wage would probably cause job losses, although economists disagree as to their extent. Lawrence Lindsey, a Federal Reserve Board governor, claims that 400,000 jobs would be lost eventually if the wage were raised by 90 cents. However, a panel of 101 economists, some of them Nobel prize winners, have endorsed an increase as economically beneficial. Harvard economist Lawrence Katz believes that “the gains to low-income people outweigh the employment costs.” Conservatives such as House Majority Leader Dick Armey (R-TX) oppose the increase altogether because they fear it would cost too many entry-level jobs. “I’m not interested in increasing the number of non-working poor,” he said.

Dole is in an awkward political position. He does not want to anger blue-collar and low-income workers and be portrayed as an extremist, yet voting for an increase would cost him conservative Republican support and further his image as an unprincipled deal-maker. Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) believes a prolonged debate would be politically dangerous for Republicans. “The important thing from a strategic point of view is to...

Menendez brothers sentenced to life

The jury that convicted Lyle and Erik Menendez of murdering their parents spared them the death penalty and sentenced them to life in prison.

Rabbi pleads for clemency on SS captain

Rome’s chief rabbi and a distinguished Italian journalist appealed for leniency for former SS captain 82-year-old Erich Priebke, who was to stand trial for his role in Italy’s worst wartime atrocity. The journalist wrote that Priebke had no choice but to follow his orders to kill 335 Italians, including 77 Jews, in the Ardeatine Caves massacre. Priebke was living in Argentina when discovered by an ABC News team and extradited.to Italy.

Whitewater Panel’s life extended

Senate Republicans and Democrats reached a compromise to continue the panel investigating the Arkansas business dealings of Bill and Hillary Clinton into mid-June.

Egyptian gunmen massacre 18 at hotel

Gunmen with automatic rifles and pistols opened fire on Greek tourists, killing 18 and wounding 17. Officials suspected fundamentalist Muslims who are into their fourth year of a violent campaign against Egypt’s secular government.

Yeltsin restores red flag

Yeltsin signed a decree restoring the red banner, embossed with a gold star instead of the Communist hammer and sickle, as a national emblem. It will be unfurled beside the Russian tricolor at patriotic ceremonies.

—from April 18 and 19 of The New York Times

Sources include: April 18 and 19 of The New York Times and April 19 of The Wall Street Journal.

David Keene, a Dole advisor, put it more bluntly. “Probably the best thing to do is get the damn thing out of the way.”

Global Perspective

Israel attacks Lebanon in retaliation campaign

By Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

As the Israeli elections approach, Israel’s affairs seem to become more and more influenced by people trying to alter the election’s outcome. Before Israel was even able to recover from the deadly bombings by HAMAS a few weeks ago which rocked the elections polls and shifted them in favor of the right-wing Likud party, it has found itself in the midst of yet another conflict, this time with the Lebanese Hizbullah.

Many analysts speculate that the recent Israeli attacks on Lebanese camps around Beirut (the first time Israel had attacked Beirut since the Israeli invasion of Lebanon in 1982) are largely motivated by Shimon Peres’ attempts to make himself appear more hard-line and interested in Israeli security. During the HAMAS bombings, Peres came under a great deal of fire from Likud leaders for “giving Israel away to the Palestinians” and for his lack of appropriate responses to the bombings. The Israeli people apparently agreed with these charges, and Peres saw what had at one point been a comfortable lead disappear.

Recent rocket attacks by Hizbullah rebels (an Iranian-backed terrorist group intent on forcing Israel to give up its seven-mile-wide buffer zone it initiated after its invasion of Lebanon in 1982) have given Peres a chance to redeem himself in his people’s eyes. Operation “Grapes of Wrath,” as the Israeli operation is referred to, began two weeks ago on the day after the end of Passover. Israeli gunships fired laser-guided Hellfire missiles into a suspected Hizbullah command station. Hizbullah responded by firing another 40 rockets into Israel the next day. This allowed Israel to extend the scope of its attacks. Israel gave warnings to the civilian population in 60 Lebanese cities on the border that they had six hours to evacuate before Israel would begin artillery attacks on their towns. Only a few hours after the warnings, over a hundred thousand Lebanese had evacuated and were fleeing to the North. Israeli attacks began later that day.

Throughout all of these events, the US remained quiet. The main reason is because this was Peres’ chance to show his power and willingness to fight to the Israeli people (something very important to his chances for re-election). The US strongly favors Peres and his Labour Party over the Likud and their promises to end the peace process, and was willing to allow affairs to unfold as they were. That is, the US was willing to stay silent until Israel hit a UN refugee camp with artillery fire last Thursday and killed over 70 refugees. After the artillery attack, Clinton stepped in and called on both sides to end hostilities. But as of the deadline for this article, nothing had come of that call for peace and both sides are still saying they will only stop if the other makes the first move toward peace.

Domestic Destinations Cheap!!

IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE PRICES START YOUR OWN DAMN AIRLINE.

info@aerotech.com
Aur-Tech, Ltd. 212/219-7000
http://campus.net/aerotech

We provide individualized application through skill and product. All salons are not created equal. Ours was created with YOU in mind.

We carry:
Aveda
Paul Mitchell
Biolage
Nexxus
Senscience

704/895-0404
Norman Crossing Shopping Center