THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1996

Senators reveal results of dorm storming
By Brooke BAGWELL
Staff Writer

The SGA compiled a final report of the Dorm Storm campaign and published the results last Tuesday. Dorm Storm ’96 was headed by the SGA Committee on Polling and Response to get a consensus on student opinions and concerns.

Several academic concerns surfaced involving Davidson’s mission as a liberal arts institution. Students believe the option of minors allows them to pursue interests of study beyond the focus of their major and develop a strong liberal arts background. Some students suggest class size be decreased to encourage discussion and a more intellectual environment. As the report says, “There (is) a generally pervasive sense that Davidson is fostering an environment that is too academic and not intellectual enough. Classwork too often precludes students from attending lectures or supporting athletic teams on campus.”

Many students are frustrated about perceived grade deflation and inter-departmental competition for low GPAs. Others express concern that the pass-fail option deadline be extended to allow better evaluation of course progress before decision-making. Most students also expressed a desire for a more gender and minority diverse faculty, especially in the natural science and math departments. Students want a more culturally diverse campus as well.

Some students object to college admission preferences for individuals who have high SAT scores and good grades, but who are perhaps not well-rounded enough.

The issue of Davidson athletics generates great concern among students. For the most part, students address the problem of funding. Most students hope for the college to remain in Division I athletics, and realize the necessary increase in funding to strengthen college teams and make them more competitive. Others would like to see athletic funding diverted, either to give more aid to club sports, or to allow more financial aid for need-based individuals. The consistency and flexibility of Baker and Johnston Gym hours was another issue, along with a general desire for improvements of the track.

Students generally hope for a greater variety of dining options. They want more healthy, low-fat foods, especially fresher produce and higher quality vegetarian entrees. Others simply call for a widening of the food selection.

Environmental studies concentration?
By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
Assistant News Editor

An Environmental Studies Concentration may soon extend students’ academic options, according to David Martin, Professor of Economics. To create a concentration, he says, “There has to be an expression of interest either by students or faculty.” Such support has been seen periodically throughout the past several years, and Martin recently took responsibility for the “organizational gruntwork” of such a project.

Martin recently submitted a draft proposal to Dean of Faculty Robert Williams who offered suggestions and feedback. The proposal lists courses currently offered at Davidson which would likely satisfy concentration requirements. A major stumbling block to an environmental studies concentration, explains Martin, “is the scarcity of environmental courses” now being taught. Tentative solutions to the lack of variety of courses now available include the possibility that students may modify existing courses, tailoring them toward a more environmental focus.

According to tentative plans for a concentration, however, the environmental studies concentration would consist of one statistics course and five electives, four of which must be outside a student’s major. Martin hopes that after a summer of serious work, a specific proposal might be submitted to the EPC as early as next fall. If approved, it would eventually continue on to a faculty vote. In the meantime, says Martin, “What I advise people to do is to take the courses [geared toward the environment]. [Students] can essentially design their own quasi-concentration.”

IVCF from page 1
Committee members voiced their concern that IVCF’s constitutional policy conflicted with Davidson College’s nondiscrimination policy by unjustly discriminating against homosexuals. The lengthy debate which resulted from Sophomore Class Senator Eric Sapp’s motion to renew IVCF’s charter regardless of the committee’s failure to recommend such action was tabled for one week to allow Senators to conduct legal research and in-depth examination of the situation’s apparent conflict between civil liberties and religious freedom.

“What’s happening now on this campus is incredible,” says Independent Senator Tim Saintsing, a sophomore, who gave an emotional speech inwhich he repeatedly quoted an elderly black woman in reference to her protest against integrated busing: “My feet is tired, but my soul is rested.” However, Saintsing voted to renew the charter. He explains that:

The Davidson College Music/Opera Theatre Workshop presents "The Many Sides of Love," a staged recital with scenes ranging from Broadway musicals to Grand Opera and featuring Davidson students. Friday, May 3 and Saturday, May 4 at 8 pm, Hodson Hall, Cunningham Fine Arts Center. Admission is free.

He initially adopted a stance “based on personal [belief] that IVCF and other groups that do discriminate should not be chartered.” However, after much research and debate, during which he says he was “forced to separate personal feelings from [official policy],” Saintsing cast his vote Tuesday in answer to the question: “are they (IVCF) following the rules?”

Debate which resulted from IVCF’s charter request has forced people to question their own beliefs concerning civil liberties, and freedom of religion and speech. Such questioning, says Saintsing, marks “a new Davidson phenomenon.”

Last Tuesday, several members of the administration and faculty attended the SGA meeting at the invitation of SGA President Warren Buford. Before the gallery discussion began, Buford asked Davidson College General Counsel Bart Landess and Political Science Professor Mary Thornberry to offer their insight concerning the situation’s possible legal ramifications. Landess noted, “IVCF from my viewpoint meets the criteria to be chartered.” While the SGA by-laws regarding charter requirements are vague, the Student Organization Handbook produced by the Union clearly mandates that to be eligible for charter, “Membership in the organization must be open to any member of the student body.” However, this does not stipulate leadership, and IVCF members are calling for their right to practice freedom of religion. Landess stressed his belief that although the SGA by-laws were not specific, Davidson’s “chartering documents do not have any requirements that IVCF has not met.” He reminded the Senate that IVCF’s compliance with charter requirements is an issue independent of the SGA’s possible desire to change these requirements. The Senate “can’t apply new ideals in retrospect,” he said.

Although Thornberry concluded her comments by stating, “I’m certainly not here to tell you how to vote,” several senators voiced resentment of the administration’s presence at the meeting. “I felt that [the administration] tried to intimidate members [of the SGA],” says Phi Delt Senator and sophomore Brian Brown, who voted not to renew IVCF’s charter. Brown explains that “my gut feeling was” that IVCF’s charter should not be renewed. Brown spent the week which preceded the vote trying to “reconcile my beliefs to the spirit of the SGA by-laws.” In the end, he says, “I voted in good conscience.”

Head Independent Senator Brian Luskey echoed similar sentiments last Tuesday in expressing his belief that the SGA is neither respected nor trusted by the administration. Luskey, a junior, voted for renewal of IVCF’s charter because, he says, “I [believe] the First Amendment in the Bill of Rights protects even those groups we disagree with.” Because of this firm belief that IVCF did indeed meet charter requirements in accordance with Davidson College policy, Saintsing says he was “very surprised by the outcome [of the vote].”

In light of Tuesday’s results, Thornberry voices her concern “about some groups seeming to tell other groups what to believe.” Senior Jason Byassee, a highly involved member of IVCF who served on IVCF’s six-member executive board last year, believes that “on Tuesday night ... a really slanderous image of InterVarsity was presented. The fact is,” he states, “there are many people whose honest and painful and disciplined reading of scripture says that homosexual activity is not okay. Clearly this hasn’t made us any friends. Clearly this hasn’t made us more popular ... We just feel we’re being faithful to what we [believe].”

Many students have asked whether IVCF will respond to the Senate’s decision by means of a lawsuit. “That’s not our intention,” says Stokes. Allison Sabel, Senior Class President and Chairperson of the Charters and By-laws Committee, noted last week that IVCF is free to reapply for charter renewal at any time, with or without modifying their constitution. In addition, the Senate’s decision not to renew the charter may be overridden by College President John Kuykendall. Byassee confirms InterVarsity’s position, stating, “IVCF incorporated is not going to sue Davidson College over this.” As a group, he explains, “we’ll respond in peace and love ... even if in disappointment.”