14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Blue Dogs bark.

ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1996

The Clubs — Music in two hours or less — Kennel Management

Houck comes home

Alumnus’ band to play at weekend’s Homecoming festivities

SUSAN RUGGIERO
Arts and Living Editor

In 1983, when Bobby Houck was a freshman at Davidson, SAE, the fraternity he eventually joined, sponsored a progressive drinking
party (similar to Around the World) that concluded with the house’s own Blue Dog Punch. Four years later, as Houck
and two of his friends were trying to come up with a name for their band, it seemed only natural
that they adopt the name Blue Dogs. Houck will be returning to his alma mater on Friday to perform with
his band for the Homecoming festivities.

The Blue Dogs, which have played at clubs such as Jack Straw’s, Tremont Music Hall, and The Double Door, have
a wide appeal because of the diversity of their style. Houck describes the music as having a “rootsy acoustic rock
sound with a country twist and funky rhythms.” Greg Walker, the group’s drummer, also adds his favorite genre, R&B, to
the blend of the sound. A recently added member, Jesse Thrower, brings a knowledge of African instruments to the group,
as he is a master of the jimbay drum. Houck is the lead singer and plays acoustic guitar. He is
joined on vocals and guitars by Hank Futch and Phillip Lammonds.

The group’s first three albums featured cover songs done in the Blue Dogs’ unique way. Their latest album, Live at
the Dock Street Theatre, recorded in Charleston, includes covers of Jimmie Rodgers, the Grateful Dead, and Counting Crows, in addition
to originals featuring their own electric sound. Monday after the group plays at Davidson, they will be going into the
studio to record all their own music. The new album will also be the first released since the members of
the band decided to make it their full-time career. Before February of 1996, the band had been playing where they
could, at parties, fraternities, and bars around the Carolinas and surrounding areas. The band decided to change the level of
commitment because, as Houck describes it, “everyone was at a point in their jobs where they wanted to do something
else. We got together and said look at what’s happening in the music industry and decided to become a full-time
deal.”

The band not only got its name from Houck’s Davidson experience but has its roots here as well. During Houck’s
first day of orientation, William Brown asked every freshman to be in a freshmen talent show. Although Houck had never
played guitar in front of people before, he participated in the show and met George Guise at the rehearsals. Guise
and Houck began playing around campus and helped start up Friday Afternoon Clubs, which were then held in the 900
Room of the Union, where Houck was Social Vice-President. Eventually, the band started up and through the various member changes,
Houck has stuck with it. Part of Houck’s excitement at coming back to play at Davidson comes from his love
of Davidson and the credit he gives it in forming hislife. He says, “To me the College Union was probably
the best experience I had at Davidson. I was involved in promoting bands and big weekends and learned so much
about the music business. If I had been at a big college or university, I don’t think I would have
had the same experience. Especially for an acoustic guitar player, it was just a perfect situation... people like that kind
of music. The Union helped me get involved in the music business for the first time.”

Houck’s music classes at Davidson were not one of the decisive factors in turning his life toward music. He confesses,
“I might as well just bite the bullet and say that I took music theory with Dr. Lawing and got
a D. I loved music theory, but the night before the biggest test I stood in line for Neil Young
tickets. I stayed up all night with friends, studying a little bit and drinking a lot of beer. The show
ended up getting canceled, and I failed my test.”

Despite his experience with the music department, Houck raves about the people at Davidson, saying, “Davidson teachers help you through
life. Any step you make you go back to these people.” Houck can be seen back at Davidson, Friday night
at Richardson Field. The show starts at 9:30 p.m. Beer will be on tap for people of drinking age with
two IDs, so students should try to get to the show before alumni arrive.

BLVYE Pooes JOHNSTON Gym
FRIDAY, 27 SEPTEMBER 9:30 p.m.
Compiled BY CLAY COFER

Monday, Sept. 23
Double Door: Jim Brock, Rick Blackwell, Johnny Alexander, Charles Hairston, & Joe Lindsey
Rainbow Deli (Cornelius): Green Eggs and Jam
Pterodactyl: Goldfinger
Rockafellas’ (Columbia, SC): Steamboat Willie

Tuesday, Sept. 24
Rockafellas’ (Columbia, SC): Let’s Go Bowling (Great Ska band!!)
Pterodactyl: 80s Dance night
Mythos: College night- Techno
Tremont: Todd Bush, Jeff Williams & Emily Calabrese
Coyote Joe’s (country): Vic Rorrer & The No Name Band
Ziggy’s (Winston Salem): Underfoot
Amos’: Bill Hanna & Ziad

Wednesday, Sept. 25
Double Door: Cotton Blue Band featuring Rob Posey
Coyote Joe’s (country): Vic Rorrer & The No Name Band
Club 2000: College night Dance
Comedy Zone: Larry The Cable Guy
Jack Straw’s: Face the World & Jolt Wagon
Rockafellas’ (Columbia, SC): Madball, Cotton Mouth, 9 Iron
Ziggy’s (Winston Salem): Government Mule w/ Screaming Cheetah Wheelies

Thursday, Sept. 26
Baha: Retro 80s Dance night
Double Door: Rustic Overtones
Comedy Zone: Larry the Cable Guy
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance (1/2 off before 11 p.m.)
Tremont: Tragically Hip

Friday, Sept. 27
Double Door: Tinsley Ellis Band
Comedy Zone: Larry the Cable Guy
Tremont: Backsliders
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance (1/2 off before 11 p.m.)

Saturday, Sept. 28
Double Door: Tinsley Ellis Band
Baha: Dance (No Cover Before 10 p.m.)
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance (1/2 off before 11 p.m.)
Comedy Zone: Larry the Cable Guy

Sunday, Sept. 29
Double Door: Les Moore and Friends-open stage night
Comedy Zone: Larry the Cable Guy
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Free dance lessons at 8:30 p.m.

Club #’s
Double Door Inn: 376-1446
Jack Straw’s: 347-8960
Blockbuster Pavilion: 337-2883
Baha: 525-3343
Coyote Joe’s: 399-4946
Tremont Music Hall: 343-9494
Amos’: 527-6611
Comedy Zone: 568-4242
