THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1996

WIN YOUR CAKE AND EAT IT TOO
Freshmen men go for the chocolate.
Bill Giduz

Senior parents out of luck in lodging
NASCAR drives out relatives on graduation weekend
By RANDY HARTWELL
Associate News Editor

Your parents may not have to sleep in a manger, but they may feel like Joseph and Mary when there
is no room at the inn for graduation this year. Though room reservations are notoriously difficult to secure by the
August preceding the academic year, many seniors’ families’ complications were compounded by the simultaneous scheduling of the NASCAR Winston Select
at the Charlotte Motor Speedway the same weekend.

“[My mom] had to make a lot of calls, but they did finally get a room,” says senior Kerry Albright.
For graduation, rooms “go really fast,” says Cornelius Comfort Inn front desk agent Travis Collum. “Normally, we take reservations 51
weeks in advance. In about four weeks we were booked up for the weekend of May 16-18.”

Conflicts with the racing circuit are nothing new to Sara Messick, who works at the Hampton Inn’s front desk in
Cornelius. Parents’ Weekend poses a similar dilemma, she said. “Racing is a big problem around here, especially being so close
to a school,” says Messick. “We do it as fairly as possible. It’s first come, first serve.”

Yet, even though this is not the first year that this particular schedule conflict has arisen, chances for compromise are
slim. Vice Chairman Pro-tem of the Faculty Robert Manning laughs when faced with the prospect of changing graduation dates for
the NASCAR calendar. The academic calendar is set by faculty vote. “We're stuck by faculty rules,” says Manning. “We try
to have a three-week winter vacation. We must have 14 weeks in the semester. We have a week for spring
break, five optional class days, a certain number of exam days and a reading day. There are so many considerations
that you can’t change one date and not have it affect all the others,” Manning says.

Foul play: Serial defecator messes with campus
By TERESA WHITE
Associate Editor

According to Bob Collins, Director of the Physical Plant, the first in a series of peculiar incidents happened last semester
before spring exams. Since then, there have been at least five additional occurrences of vandalism involving human feces. The defacement
began in Chambers, in Love Auditorium and then later in the first floor men’s bathroom, where maintenance workers found feces
smeared and thrown on the walls and ceiling. Collins said that although the problem stopped when students left for the
summer, it began again when summer employees returned to on-campus housing.

According to senior Trey Adams, who worked as a Summer Conference Assistant on campus, soilings peaked in mid- to late
July and seemed to focus around the senior apartments. Adams’ first-hand experience came when he was called by a retired
minister to room A of MCF 101 in order to investigate “a big pile of stuff in the middle of
the floor. Sure enough, the Unacrapper had struck again. It was huge.” The visitors were moved to another apartment, and
the carpet was shampooed several times.

Seniors Mattison Ward and Kris Horrocks first thought that their discovery had been left by an animal; however, after hearing
other stories and realizing that “most animals don’t use couches,” their suspicions changed. “It must have been him. It would
have taken an animal some serious talent,” Horrocks insisted.

After persistent efforts of the Physical Plant and the Davidson College Police Department to find the offender — including the
use of time-lapse video — suspicions narrowed to “a student who was having problems near the end of last year,”
Lt. David MacLaurin, Davidson College Detective, said. “It was obvious that this individual had some deep-seated mental problems. We took
him to Mental Health in Charlotte, where his parents came and got him. We haven’t had any more incidents since.”was
making routine inspections of apartments before campers were to move in: “I walked into Ryburn 302, and there was this
horrible odor. I was befuddled.” Because no formal charges were made, no names can be released; MacLaurin does not know
whether the student has returned to school this fall. Despite his certainty in the identity, MacLaurin believes that the Ryburn
foulings were the work of a copycat artist, probably a “disgruntled former employee.” There have been no recent spottings.

After checking the bathrooms and finding nothing apparent in any of the rooms, Adams called Housekeeping for help. After a
long search, they discovered that the culprit had “done his business under each blanket” of each bed. Sheets and mattresses
have been replaced.

New alcohol policy tests Rusk and Connor: BYOB or cans?

However, houses can have fewer parties with cans due to the expense. PCC members are working on solutions. As of
now, none of them are sure what Patterson Court will be like this year. Molly McGehee, President of Connor, said:
“The party we sponsored on Friday night with Phi Delta Theta was a test run of one way of adapting
to this policy.” She added, “We needed to see where the kinks were and what work lies ahead for us
and the other houses.” Phi Delt President Mike Ingram said he planned to “see how [Friday night’s] party went and
revise if need be.” Comments from Connor show that revision may be necessary. Senior Social members commented, “The BYOB party
was definitely a hassle for those people who were not in Connor or Phi Delta.” Another Senior Connor woman added,
“It’s frustrating because the administration gave us a policy but didn’t tell us how to implement it.”

Breaking & entering of a vehicle

Unknown person(s) entered the victim’s 1979 Jeep parked in the satellite parking lot by removing the canvas cover from the
vehicle. Three stereo speakers, one amplifier, and seven CDs along with the front-facing cover of the stereo were taken at
a value of $750.

A tale of two parties...

First impressions of the revised Patterson Court

Connor: “A lot of people brought in glass [which is illegal] and beer they didn’t register at the front door,
because the back doors and windows were open. [The new party format] is more confusing. There are so many rules
to remember that people are going to be breaking them, not even consciously.” - Vidalia Scrivano ’97

Rusk: “I liked it — it was like the good old days when I first joined Rusk. There were so
many more people there. Whether it was the house or the alcohol, I don’t know, but it was a great
night.” - Dan Duncan ’97

PROCRASTINATE. Check out the Volunteer Fair. Chambers multi-purpose room, Wednesday 6-8 p.m.

08/27/96 1500 hours

Larceny from building—Johnston Gym

Unknown person(s) removed several items and exchanged one item from the victim’s drum set above the bleachers on the third
floor of Johnston Gym. Unknown person(s) took the beater foot pedal and boom stand pole, and then exchanged a 16-inch
rock crash cymbal for a 16-inch medium crash cymbal. Items taken had an estimated value of $60. No suspects at
the time of the report.

08/27/96 1700 hours

Unknown person(s) removed a videocassette from the basement lounge area of Richardson dorm. The video, The Princess Bride, was rented
from Blockbuster Video and valued at $13. Its only identification was a silver Blockbuster “rewind” sticker on the tape. No
suspects at the time of the report.
