THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1996

Ozone flies high, takes Wildcats with him
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Assistant Sports Editor

Brandon Williams has always been a gifted athlete. “I used to beat people in high school because I could jump
higher or run faster,” said Williams. Because of his astounding leaping ability, he earned the nickname “Ozone” before he entered
ninth grade. Although an exaggeration (the ozonosphere is roughly 25 miles above the earth’s surface), the moniker seemed appropriate. After
all, “Ozone” could dunk at age 13.

This inherent athleticism allowed Williams to star at Phillips Exeter Academy in New Hampshire, where he was twice a captain
and a Five-Star All-Star, and a McDonald’s All-American nominee and a Blue Ribbon All-American as a senior. Heavily recruited, Williams
chose Davidson over Atlantic-10 members St. Joseph’s (Pa.) and Fordham, and Tulane of Conference USA.

“I knew that it would be a battle to come here, that it wouldn’t be bright lights or big headlines,”
said Williams, “But the benefits of hard work would be exceptional.” And they have been. Over the past four years,
Williams has developed into more than just an exceptional athlete. He is now an exceptional basketball player on an exceptional
basketball team, as he leads the 20-3 Wildcats on a crash course with NCAA tournament destiny.

“When you get to college, the difference in your game is the mental aspect and not so much physical. I’ve
really learned to play the game,” understated Williams. After averaging 6.7 points per game as a rookie, Williams burst on
the Southern Conference scene as a sophomore, recording 14.4 points and 6.3 rebounds a contest and securing All-Conference honors. But
the team fell just shy of its NCAA dreams, succumbing to Tennessee-Chattanooga in the conference championship, 65-64. The Mocs danced
in March Madness. Davidson settled for an NIT bid.

Last year the Wildcats experienced a lackluster campaign, posting a 14-13 mark. Similarly, Williams suffered an ankle injury and never
quite got on track. “I found myself in a new (leadership) role and I started listening to what people were
saying and expecting of me and the team and I forgot to really go out and earn it like I
had, and like we had in sophomore year,” said Williams, “I began to take things for granted.”

But Williams has done none of that this season, working his way to a new level of stardom. He leads
the team in points (18 per game), rebounds (6 per game), minutes (26.6 per game), three-point shooting (46%), and blocked
shots (.9 per game). With his 23-point performance on Saturday versus The Citadel, Williams, who now has 1,378 career points,
became the 11th-leading scorer in Davidson history. His eighth point tonight will vault him onto the top ten all-time Wildcat
scoring list.

Said classmate Quinn Harwood, “Brandon’s great. He’s one of those players who you want on your team at the end
of the game.” Against Mississippi and Williams College earlier this year, both overtime wins, Williams scored 32 and 38 points,
respectively, both career highs at the time. “When I play, it’s all about what’s happening at that very moment. At
the end of the game, I should be proud of my effort and my team’s effort.”

Williams is surrounded by a star-studded supporting cast, as the Wildcats are in the midst of their best season since
the Nixon administration. Said Williams, “What makes teams very good is when...players can yield to each other. And I think
that’s what makes our team a special team. I want to be remembered as a player who helped Davidson get
back on track. We were a national power years ago and I want people to not forget about Davidson basketball
and the commitment that we have to excellence here.” And if Davidson captures the conference tournament title in the first
week of March, Wildcat fans will have a memory they’ll never forget. “I expect to win it and go on
to the Big Dance,” Williams said, “There’s no doubt.”

Wildcat rugby wins; Burkhardt boots Radford
By Wit Baldwin
Staff Writer

In a clash of two highly touted rugby squads on a cold day in which the hits were hard and
plentiful and both teams’ defenses came up big, Davidson bettered Radford, 9-3, on the IMAC fields Saturday. “It was obvious
from the first tackle that the team with the strongest, most consistent defense would come out on top,” said club
president Thayer Long.

Davidson, with good ball movement among the backs and several hard runs by Warren Buford in his first game back
from a knee injury, continually pressured the Radford defense in the first half. The Wildcats used a few penalty runs
to keep the opposition pinned against their try zone. This pressure paid off when Matt Burkhardt hit a penalty kick
for three points. Radford knotted the contest on a dropkick just before halftime.

The second half featured more vicious tackling from both sides, including several blows from Davidson’s John Spainhour. The teams pushed
each other up and down the pitch with well-placed kicks and solid rucking and mauling. Hank Ackerman had a number
of runs to set up Davidson’s second half tallies, two more Burkhardt penalty kicks. Though Radford threatened late, Davidson rallied
to defend their goal, preserving the victory.

In a second game, the Wildcats again emerged victorious, this time by a score of 10-5. Radford scored first, but
Davidson responded with excellent passing. Davidson forged ahead on a try by Eric Borgstrom, who outraced the Radford defense to
the corner after receiving a Jason Cody pass. Ackerman capped off the scoring when he nailed a drop kick on
the fly.

Weekly Schedule
Men’s Basketball
Tonight @ VMI 7:00
Saturday vs. Marshall (TV) 2:30

Women’s Basketball
Tonight vs. UTC 5:30
Thursday @ ETSU 7:00
Saturday vs. Marshall (TV) 12:00

Swimming and Diving
Wednesday-Saturday @ Little Rock, Arkansas
National Independent Championships

Baseball
Tuesday @ UNCG 3:00
Saturday vs. App. St. (2) Noon
Sunday vs. App. St. 1:00

Men’s Tennis
Sunday @ USC Noon

Rugby
Saturday @ UNCC 1:00

Wrestling
Wednesday vs. App. St. 7:00

SCOREBOX
Men’s Basketball
Feb. 13 Davidson 96 @ ETSU 66
Feb. 17 @ Davidson 82 Citadel 54

Women’s Basketball
Feb. 12 Davidson 69 @ WCU 60
Feb. 17 GSU 100 @ Davidson 97

Swimming and Diving
Feb. 15-17 Southern States
GSU 761.5
GSU 661
Col. of Charleston 731.5
U of Louisville 572.5
U of Louisville 555.5
Davidson 519.5
Davidson 460
U of Tampa 446
U of Tampa 372.5
Col. of Charleston 439
Howard U 196
Howard U 375
Campbellsville 193
VMI 211
Pfeiffer Col. 142
Campbellsville Col. 129
Florida A&M 42
Florida A&M 88

Baseball
Feb. 14 @ Davidson 13 UNC-A 6
Feb. 16 VCU 5 @ Davidson 2
Feb. 18 VCU 12 @ Davidson 2

Women’s Tennis
Feb. 10-11 2nd in Doubles Classic @ Davidson

Men’s Tennis
Feb. 10 Virginia @ Davidson
Feb. 17 @ Davidson Queens @ Davidson ECU

Rugby
A-side: @ Davidson 9 Radford 3
B-side: @ Davidson 10 Radford 5

Wrestling
Campbellsville 28 @ Davidson 13
