THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1996

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA

JUNIORS
William Albert Abrams
Lora Marie Chavis
John Alfred Cowan, Jr.
Elizabeth Hampton DuBose
Stephen Carroll Elliott
Tom Guthrie
Kathryn E. Harker
Margaret Thomas McGehee
Rebekah Austin Peeples

SENIORS
Elizabeth L. Anderson
Joseph William Buff
Amanda R. Curtis
Alexis Marie DeVane
Scott Jacob Ellis
Margaret Rebecca Graves
Jennifer Ann Hankins
Katherine Merritt Hash
Sallie Robey Permar
Matthew Arthur Rich
Catherine Harriett Sauls
Amy Lynn Scalcucci
Tara Nicole Smith
Sarah Jane Terry
Thomas Edward Vanderbloemen
Clyde Jason Wright
Mary Laura Moretz
Richard Hugh Onkey
Christine Post Roberts
William Patrick Robinson
Margaret Ann Scheu
Margaret Blackwell Scott
Jane Morrison Moore

Celebrating solidarity: trying to dispel “voices of hate and ignorance”
By NARESH NAGELLA
Assistant News Editor

In 1985, the Ku Klux Klan held a march on Main Street. The day the march was held, the Davidson
Community decided to boycott it completely as everyone stayed in their room, and created a “lonely march” for those voices
of hate and ignorance. That event was called “Solidarity Day.” To remember that strength in community, the Union organizes a
“Solidarity Week” full of serious, fun, and intellectual events to help promote ethnic awareness and to remind Davidson of the
“unity” in community. This year’s theme is “Celebrating CommUNITY.”

The week started on Saturday, at one of the Davidson communities’ biggest volunteer service projects ever, the “roof raising” ceremony
for the Habitat House. The rest of the week features nightly Union-sponsored events complemented by “theme” meals at the Commons.

Monday, the Jumping Java Coffee House will have a poetry reading, featuring poets from the student body, faculty, and community
at 9 p.m. in the Union Outpost.

Tuesday, Naa Addo, a Ghanaian native, will teach a class in preparing fine African cuisine at 6 p.m. in the
Alumni House. Reserve your space by calling the Union Information Desk.

Wednesday, an important “Rap on Race” will be held in the 900 Room at 7 p.m. Davidson students will perform
a production that will address race relations on campus. Dr. Shannon will lead a discussion afterwards.

Thursday, a “Community Servers” panel will be held as outstanding service volunteers from the community discuss and answer questions about
their experiences at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Friday, John Singleton’s “Higher Learning,” a film about racism, sexuality, and dating on a college campus in the 90s will
show in the 900 Room.

The week will finish with a “Casino Night Down Under” at 9 p.m. in the 900 Room. Here, casino games
from all around the world will be played as the finale of another Solidarity Week is celebrated.

Sophomore David Jackson enjoyed Solidarity Week last year and urges everyone to attend the events, so that, “a strong sense
of togetherness and shared experience can be formed within our small but diverse community.”

Overall, Union Board Vice President Martin Young says that, “the Union is always trying to bring people together, but this
week focuses on solidifying the community. It is a time to celebrate being together.”

Amy Elizabeth Hawfield
Peter Marshall Varney
Donald Bradley Hilsmier
Edward Allan White
Nicole Elizabeth Howard
Heather Noel Wineberg
Anna Mary Amanda Kemp

“academic,” someone “sensitive to the mission of the college.”
from page 1

The group made further general suggestions until a trend was obvious: Anthropology Professor Psychology Professor Ruth Ault stressed the need
for a president who is familiar with the “small-college, liberal-arts” experience.one different from that of a “mega-university.” French Professor Homer
Sutton noted each candidate should have “demonstrated the potential to be an excellent fundraiser.” History Professor Jonathan Berkey urged the
consultants to find an Rosemary Zumwalt jokingly noted that, “What we’re asking you to do is find someone like John.”
The faculty present concurred, and most went on to describe what particular traits of Dr. John Kuykendall they would like
to see most in the next president: approachability, work ethic, humanity, stamina, vision, and past at Davidson were all mentioned.
After getting as much input as possible from their campus visit, Chandler and Young left to begin a pre-search study.
They will organize an applicant pool, from which they will select a limited number of candidates to be reviewed by
the College’s Presidential Search Committee. That committee is divided into three sub-committees: the Trustee Committee, which will be the authority
during the search process, a Faculty Advisory Committee, which was formed last week, and a Student Advisory Committee, which is
still under construction. The Trustee Committee will be chaired by Larry Dagenhart, who is the Board of Trustees’ secretary. Fellow
committee members are trustees Ted Baker, Katherine Belk, Ed Crutchfield, Laurie Dunn, Isaiah Tidwell, and Bill Wood. The Faculty Advisory
Committee will be chaired by Bob Manning by virtue of his position as Vice Chairman of the Faculty pro-tem. Other
faculty members are Biology professor Verna Case from the Sciences; Sutton from the Humanities; and Anthropology professor Nancy Fairley from
the Social Sciences. Mathematics professor Bob Klein will serve as the faculty member at-large. Though the faculty committee has no
voting power in the search, this is not unusual. “It’s a pretty established procedure that the ultimate decision is the
responsibility of the trustees,” said Dean of Students Tom Shandley. He describes the faculty and student committees as “fully involved”
in the search, and he credits Dagenhart as “instrumental” in involving them in the process. The Student Advisory Committee will
be formed in the coming weeks. Students who signed up in the Dean of Students’ office last week will be
interviewed by a four-student committee of SGA members and alumni. The SGA committee will then nominate a group of five,
which will comprise the SAC after they are approved by the Senate. The entire Presidential Search Committee is tentatively scheduled
to meet for the first time February 26. Young and Chandler predict the search for a new president will last
from April until November. After the Trustee Committee makes its final selections, the Board as a whole will vote on
who will serve after Kuykendall leaves in the Spring of 1997.

Write for news. Call Catherine, 2148

Domestic Destinations Cheap!! IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE PRICES, START YOUR OWN DAMN AIRLINE. http://campus.nev/aerotech Mexico/Caribbean $189 RT, Europe $169
OW & Air-Tech, Ltd. 2/2/219-7000, info@aerotech.com
