THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1996

Palatable Pleasures

Wooing with chocolate!

By JEFFERY CROMARTIE
Chef-in-Residence

Today more and more young women are focusing their time and energy on finding a career. Now, the males out
there might view this as a threat, but I’d much rather view this as a golden opportunity. You see, when
women dedicate their lives to their career, their domestic skills are going to decay. There are a few women who
can do everything well, but they are tough to find. So, the way I see it, male domestic skills are
going to be more and more in demand as a significant percentage of women become the primary financial providers.

This means you can safely forget about Dr. Putnam’s PAC committee, the LSAT, the GRE, declaring a major, and all
the other silly things we worry about. You only need a few simple skills to keep a woman happily supporting
you and your offspring/pets. First, learn how to make chocolate. Empathy is something you have to figure out on your
own; however, I can help you out by showing you a very simple chocolate trick:

Here’s what you do:

Get 1 lb (16 oz) of semi-sweet chocolate chips, 1 cup of heavy cream, 1 tablespoon of sugar, and 1
tablespoon of butter.

In a medium saucepan, heat the cream until just before scalding (before boiling).

Place the remaining ingredients (butter, sugar, and chips) into a metal pan or large bowl.

When you get your cream all nice and hot, dump it into the bowl with all the other stuff.

Immediately whisk the mixture until it is smooth.

Then let your chocolate cool in the freezer or fridge (1-2 hours).

When the chocolate gets kinda hard, remove.

Take a melon baller or spoon and start scooping.

Roll the scoops into small, marble-sized balls.

Your balls might melt (THIS IS BAD), so when you are done shaping and coating, put them in the freezer.

This will yield about 3 dozen balls (truffles). If you ever need to transport the truffles, be sure and keep
them in a cooler or make it a fast trip. If they melt in transport, then it is back to
the pre-professional blues. And remember:

If it’s fat-free, it sucks.

Jumpin’ Java starts the week out right in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Coffeehouse perks you up with doughnuts in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.

Jumpin’ Java livens up the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Twenty-one Year Old Night provides good old-fashioned fun in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

WEDNESDAY

Internship Fair could supply you with the job you need in Chambers Gallery 12 p.m. - 3 p.m.

Charles Cooke, M.D., a Davidson alumnus, lectures on dealing with overwhelming illness in Chambers Gallery 7 p.m.

Empire of the Sun adds excitement to the 900 Room 9:30 p.m.

Arlene Render speaks on recent developments in Burundi in the 900 Room 7 p.m.

Kayak Rolling provides a fun and exciting study break at Baker Sports Complex 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m.

Coffeehouse is there for you again in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.

Project Life Spaghetti Dinner fills you up for a good cause in Johnston Gym 5 p.m. - 8 p.m.

Empire of the Sun entertains you before the big night in the 900 Room 8 p.m.

First Night Down tears up the night on Patterson Court. Freshmen: don’t miss dinner with your hall beforehand.

Pub Night is the social center for those who don’t care to laugh at freshmen in the 900 Room 10:30
p.m. - 1 a.m.

Catfish Jenkins plays it again in the 900 Room 9 p.m. - 12 a.m.

Jumpin’ Java brews it up yet another time in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Concert Series presents “Mosaic,” a quartet of clarinet, violin, cello, and piano in Hodson Hall 8 p.m.

Zac says, “Two IDs, you sorry punk! You need two IDs at the 900 Room bar!”

Ultimate Frisbee! Join the fun! Tuesdays and Thursdays at 4 on the IMACs

3 Specialty Shops on the Park, Charlotte

Actual styles may vary from those shown here. Quantities limited.

To receive Harold's free men’s and ladies’ catalogs, call 1-800-676-5373
