THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1991

Drums, not guns
African dance and drum troupe gives rhythm to soul
By CHAD FOGLEMAN
Staff Writer

“You sound just like Africans!” Richard Campbell’s voice boomed like the thunder of the drums surrounding him. Wo hu te sen? the big man asked, singing in the Twi language of West Africa; Me hu ye! we, a sparse but spirited crowd, shouted in return. “How are you doing?” “Very well, thank you.”

Love Auditorium welcomed the sounds and songs and stories of Akwaaba Thursday night as part of both the Cultural Artists Series and the ongoing celebration of Black History Month. Akwaaba, which means “welcome” in Twi, is an African dance and drum troupe composed of students from Piedmont Courts, a low-income housing division in Charlotte. Directed by Campbell under the auspices of the Charlotte Housing Authority, the group consists of some 23 performers, eight of whom (ranging in age from 12 to 20) played in Love, danced gracefully in colorful robes and pounded out rhythms on five different types of drums.

“Some of these kids are better than me,” Campbell chuckled after the show, “and my old muscles.” Campbell, 42, and a graduate of UNCC, began drumming while on mission trips to West Africa with the ICYE (International Christian Youth Exchange). He heard the beatings in the bush, then learned to drum himself under the tutelage of the African villagers in whose community he was working. “I’ve been to Africa three times, to ten different countries,” he says proudly. But he is most proud of all the kids participating in this Charlotte Housing Authority program. “Some of these kids were D and F students. Now they’re A and B students,” he beams.

The group drummed and danced and sang a medley of traditional and original songs including “Kumbahya,” a stirring “Funga Alafia” and a song Campbell heard working in the fields of Africa. Some songs were even written by one of the performers, Melvin Steele, who (appropriately) showcased his talent on the steel drums. Art Flagg, who along with Debbie Liverman, was instrumental in bringing Akwaaba to Davidson, smiled: “It’s uplifting, good for the spirit and the soul.” He emphasized, “We need to take part in more things like this.”

“It’s better to put a drum in a kid’s hand than a gun,” Campbell remarked. Truly, the sound and spirit of Akwaaba is audible proof of that.

Peace of the past lies on Main St.
By CURISTY SHI
Travel Correspondent

Anyone who has traveled to Myrtle Beach from Charlotte has bypassed Bennettsville, S.C. Tucked away on Business 38, the county seat of Marlboro County provides a quiet spot of respite for those seeking much-needed peace. Of course, entertainment relies heavily upon you; Bennettsville has no theater, no golf course, and no shopping malls.

On the Road
My purpose for visiting Bennettsville was to stay in The Breeden Inn & Carriage House. Located on Main St, this romantic Southern mansion (c. 1886) provides a haven for antique lovers, runners, and walkers. Wrap-around porches, a huge backyard, and flower gardens lend to the house’s atmosphere. The Innkeepers, Bonnie and Wesley Park, exuded Southern hospitality and charm, seeking to accommodate my every need and interest. Bonnie’s full, elegant breakfasts were simply wonderful, providing energy for the day ahead.

Although the modern entertainments cannot be found, several points of interest might hold your eye (especially if you love history). The County Courts are held in a beautiful building on Main St. Jin-Jin, a local Chinese food chain, sits across the street; Nimmy’s, a wonderful bakery, lies just down the road. Of particular interest is a restaurant serving Southernbuffet. During the Civil War, the owners of the house heard of Sherman’s march and sought to protect their property. They did so by dismantling the house, numbering the boards, and hiding the dismembered abode until the Union troops had passed. The house was reassembled where it now stands and is a true landmark.

There are several museums in Bennettsville, each very limited in size and scope, but providing in its own fashion a piece of the Southern heritage. Most of the exhibits pertain to the Native Americans who resided in what is now Marlboro County several centuries ago. But one remarkable building houses a folk art stencil which the archaeologists and specialists from Colonial Williamsburg wanted to purchase for their site. Bennettsville held out on selling and now possesses a beautifully restored piece of colonial art.

If you feel the need to get out and explore, there are hundreds of country roads branching out in all directions. Several lead to an auction house in Dillon, SC, which is a wonderful find for antique lovers. Other roads direct your course to I-95, a major interstate providing easy access to Florence, SC, and Rockingham, NC.

For those who love quiet, Bennettsville provides a definite place of rest. The Breeden Inn is an affordable yet luxurious place to stay; Bonnie and Wesley Park only add to its charm. Although modern entertainment amenities are absent, the void is easily filled with a look into the past.

Alex.

DYB! DYB! DYB!

Love, Dr. Flydaddy, Mother, Free Play Basketball shoots some any in Johnston Gym 3:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. Geoffrey Giles speaks in the 900 Room 4 p.m. - 6 p.m. Silver Lake Life plays in the 900 Room 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Jumpin’ Java Cafe comes alive with poetry readings in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.

MONDAY

Non-Alcoholic Study Break is a sobering haven for mid-term crammers in the 900 Room 10 p.m. - 11 p.m. Coffeehouse perks you up bright and early in the 900 Room 8 a.m. - 11 a.m. Free Play Basketball in Johnston Gym 3:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. Jumpin’ Java Cafe greets you with a smile in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12 a.m. Jane Cain and the Davidson College Orchestra soothe the stressed with euphonious melodies in DCPC sanctuary 8 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. AVOSANL J. C. S. U. Jazz Band Ensemble revs up our engines in the 900 Room 8:30 p.m. - 10 p.m. Twenty-One Year Old Night bubbles over with fun 10:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Eating Disorders Awareness gets the campus’ attention in the Big Screen Room 11:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. Girl Scout Cookie Sale on the Union Patio 3:30 p.m. - 5 p.m. Help them earn those patches! Free Play Basketball again. Pinckney Benedict Prose Reading awes us non-creative ones in the 900 Room 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m.

WEDNESDAY

Indian/Asian Poetry Reading adds a little diversity in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 9 p.m. Girl Scout Cookie Sale on the Union Patio 3:30 p.m. - 5 p.m. Indulge the cookie pushers. Free Play Basketball 3:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. If you make this a habit, you can work off all those cookies. Hilde Nelson speaks in Chamber Gallery 7 a.m. - 8:30 p.m. WCSYNHL Dean Rusk Speaker informs the campus of global issues in the 900 Room 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m.

Spring Break

FRIDAY

The English Department at Davidson College is sponsoring three writing contests: The 1996 R. Windley Hall Writing Award for Freshmen, The 1996 Vereen Bell Memorial Award for Creative Writing, and The 1996 Charles E. Lloyd Writing Award. All submissions are due 5 p.m. Thursday, February 29. Specific guidelines for each contest are available from any English Department Faculty. (Some of these pay MONEY.)

Pee Wee, Anna, and Mig