SPORTS 14

Kruse’s Cubby

Tim can read

MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

The men’s and women’s basketball squads both opened their seasons in the Great White North this weekend. The guys beat Fairleigh-Dickinson in New Jersey and the gals split a pair, whipping Army and falling to St. Francis in New York. But how they got there was particularly noteworthy.

The guys practiced at Belk Arena Friday afternoon, after which they hopped on a plane to the oxymoronic Garden State. They spent Friday and Saturday nights in a hotel and jetted back Sunday morning. Their female counterparts, on the other hand, prepared for the weekend hoops extravaganza with a 7:00 practice Thursday morning and then jumped on a bus. About a 12-hour trip up and after two contests, a 12-hour, through-the-night trek down. Perhaps our own road warriors were a tad weary in Saturday night’s lackluster 57-50 loss to the mediocre Terriers?

Now I know the male hoopsters bring in the majority of the revenue from ticket sales. I know they received a monetary bounty for last year’s NIT appearance. But doesn’t this blatantly fly in the face of Title IX and gender equity in general? I don’t know. Maybe it’s just me...

Tim Duncan might beat the Wildcats like a red-headed stepchild on Friday night at Lawrence Joel Veterans Memorial Coliseum in Winston. Then again, he might not. But whatever he does, you gotta respect Duncan. As a star senior in a big-time college hoops program, he is somewhat of a novelty and certainly a glimmering hope in an otherwise dying breed. The 6-10 All-American shunned the prospect of NBA superstardom and a multi-million dollar contract, opting instead to make one more run at a national championship and get his degree in psychology. Duncan would almost certainly have been the top pick in last June’s NBA draft. But he decided that the professional game could wait, while his education couldn’t. In a mumbo-jumbo of various eye-popping stats, records, and honors, the simple fact that he is still a Demon Deacon, to me, stands alone...

The revitalized Duke Blue Devils, whom your Wildcats face in Cameron Indoor on Dec. 11, looked awful good this week in advancing to the preseason NIT semifinals. But I didn’t notice their high level of play and their pressure defense as much as I did the storied Cameron Crazies. Fanatical Dukies, covered in blue and white body paint and sporting basketballs and nets on their heads, cheered in a synchronized manner in such an intimidating fashion that I was about to cry in anticipation of next month’s showdown. The Crazies did many things the majority of our wine-and-cheese Cat-backers have never done, among them show up, make noise, and care. A tear is shed.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1996

Men’s hoops trashes Knights in opener

By Dante El. Motz AND MICHAEL KRUSE
Copy Editor and Sports Editor

Opening a season following a historic campaign like Davidson’s epic 25-5 mark a year ago is always a challenge. But on Saturday night, the Wildcats responded well, starting 1996-97 with an 87-73 victory over Fairleigh-Dickinson. The Wildcats routed the Knights last year, 96-56. Using an aggressive trapping defense, Davidson (1-0) used a 19-0 run midway through the first half to race to a comfortable 54-32 intermission lead. “We've used that press and trap in the last two years,” coach Bob McKillop told the Observer. “It was a real positiveHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"That we were able to put that run together in a short time and make it so definitive.” Mark Donnelly and Narcisse Ewodo each scored a career-high 22 points for the Wildcats to lead all scorers. “They (Donnelly and Ewodo) are two players who are going to be counted on very heavily to take prominent roles,” said McKillop. “Their teammates have the utmost confidence in them to handle that role. And last night they did it.”

Anna Judy Mark Donnelly pulls up for a three in an exhibition on Nov. 13. He had a career-high 22 in the 87-73 season-opening win at Fairleigh-Dickinson on Saturday.

Davidson also used a significant height advantage in the front court to control the inside game. Center Chadd Holmes scored a career-best 11 points and rookie sensation Landry Kosmalski posted a double-double in his first collegiate game, tallying 16 points and 10 rebounds. “That’s a pretty significant statement about where you’re headed,” McKillop told Davidson College Television. “He plays with the poise and maturity of a seasoned veteran, he’s got talent, he’s got presence on the court, and he’s tough and aggressive. In my thinking, I don’t know if there’s going to be a freshman in the conference as good as Landry Kosmalski.”

“We definitely struggled inside with their height,” Knights’ coach Tom Green told the Observer. “They played physical in the post, and they are a real solid team.” Fairleigh-Dickinson (0-1), who shot just 18.8 percent behind the three-point line, rallied in the second half, but could draw no closer than 12 points. The Wildcats displayed foul shooting prowess, outshooting the Knights from the charity stripe, 85 to 46 percent.

Freshman Davor Halbauer played 12 minutes for the Wildcats, scoring nine points on four-of-five shooting from the field. “I think we played very well,” said Halbauer. “We have to work on some stuff, but we played very aggressively and the whole game was under our control. There was never a question about the winner.”

Women run by Army, but fall to Terriers
By Aaron Dunham
Staff Writer

The women’s basketball team traveled to New York over the weekend to begin its regular season against Army and St. Francis. The Wildcats came away with a split of those two games, defeating Army but falling to an upstart St. Francis team.

Davidson pummeled Army 84-52 on Friday night. The victory was the second straight in as many years for the Wildcats over the Cadets and the first in a season-opener since they opened the 1992-93 campaign with a win over Ferrum. Jennie Vanlerberghe led the scoring with a career-high 23 points on impressive 10-of-11 shooting from the field. Rookie Katy Kamp, playing in her first college game, added 19, and Jessica Montrella tallied 18.

Saturday night proved to be a much different story as the Wildcats were stunned 57-50 by a St. Francis team that finished 3-23 a year ago. Guard Erin Siemer scored 14 points in the second half, including four three-pointers, as the Terriers (1-0) rallied for the win. Davidson shot poorly from the field in the second half and was unable to mount a late charge. Montrella was again a bright spot for the Wildcats (1-1), scoring 18 points for the second straight outing.

Nora Kizer dribbles up court during an exhibition game. The Wildcats split their first two games, thrashing Army on Friday night.