SPORTS 14 MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1996

Soccer teams to shine
Men set sights on NCAA's
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

Sometimes you have to get back to the basics.

“I think we’ll score more than we did last year,” said junior striker Phil Julien. “And we should give up
fewer goals.”

It follows that this year’s Wildcats should be even better than last year’s Southern Conference tournament champion that lost to
Mid-American Conference titleist Bowling Green, 3-1, in an NCAA play-in game. And they will be. Davidson boasts a more experienced
lineup, a reliable defense, and more offensive weapons, and should make a legitimate run at another league crown if not
the NCAA tourney. That bid would take 15 or 16 wins, according to 17-year head coach Charlie Slagle, the National
Coach of the Year in 1992 when his Wildcats made the NCAA Final Four.

“We’re better talent-wise and a year older,” he said last week. “Our depth is better than it’s been in a
while and we’re very experienced. We’re very optimistic that this season could be a great one. We want to get
there to the NCAA’s and find out what happens. That’s what we’re shooting for.”

Shooting indeed. Davidson will employ an innovative 3-3-3-1 formation this fall in an effort to thwart counterattacks and concentrate its
firepower up front. Senior Robert Clarke (18 goals in ‘95), last year’s Southern Conference player of the year and the
school’s all-time second-leading scorer, senior Keith Kleiman, and Julien comprise a lethal front line. And senior Coley Dominiak will play
the point, receiving balls from the backs and midfielders and dishing passes off to streaking forwards.

“It’s a little tough to get used to having my back to the goal all the time,” said Dominiak. “But
we’re much more threatening offensively.”

The Wildcats are not strictly offensive though. Senior Fernando Campos, a four-year starter, will dictate the play from his familiar
center midfield spot and will be flanked by Jeff Harrell on the left and either Dennis Buck or Patrick Cahan
or Drew Lindsey on the right. Chad Lagerway, Isaac Stewart, and Stephen Thomas make up a solid backfield trio. And
goalkeeper Matt Hill, after toiling in Alex Deegan’s legendary shadow for three years, will finally get his starting shot. Hill,
All-Florida his last two years in high school, posted a 1.98 goals against average in 16 games over the past
three seasons.

“With the kind of team defense we play, we can pretty much play with anybody,” said Dominiak.

Good thing, too. Because the Wildcats pretty much play everybody. The ‘96 gauntlet opens up with Wake Forest (Aug. 30
in Winston-Salem) and South Carolina (Sept. 1 at Richardson Field) and gets no easier from there, featuring St. Mary’s and
UNLV in Las Vegas, Princeton and Cornell (both Ivies that went to the NCAA Tournament last year) at the UVA
Invitational, George Mason in Miami, Duke, North Carolina, UNC Charlotte, and conference rival Furman.

“I think (our schedule) has to be tough to be considered for an at-large bid,” said Dominiak. “We want to
get (the bid) and then take it from there.”

Will Bradshaw
Keith Kleeman heads Bryce Jewett's corner service on goal over Marshall Tyler.

Captain Melissa Moser settles a ball during a drill in Sunday's morning practice.

Women look to three-peat
By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

For a group with only ten players for last year’s spring practice, too many bodies is a novel and welcome
problem. Twelve returning players, including eight starters, plus 15 freshmen gives the women’s soccer team high hopes for the season
but more people than they can keep. Coach Kevin Hundley said he will probably keep 23 or 24 players.leaving three
or four freshmen off the team. “It should be good (having so many players),” starting defender Katherine Cornelius said. “Once
we start we’ll be able to scrimmage, and it’s sort of exciting to have such a big team. The guys
always have such a big team and now we’re equal.”

Other players echo Cornelius’ enthusiasm. Tri-captain Kelly Amman expects the team to go undefeated in the conference and win the
conference tourney. Linda Rothemund also eyes a repeat conference title along with victories against the ACC (Clemson, Maryland, N.C. State,
or Wake Forest) and South Carolina, whom they open against on Sept. 1.

One concern with so many new players is the building of team chemistry. “All our success is dependent on how
our team works together,” Rothemund said. “Half our team is different. The talent’s maybe a little better, but the chemistry
has to work.” “A deeper bench comes down to how well we get along together on and off the field,”
starting defender Natasha Vasavada added.

But tri-captains Lucia Plosser, Melissa Moser, and Amman are working to build chemistry by keeping the team together off the
field. “We try to do things together to create unity, like eating together. There’s so many new people they outnumber
the old people,” Moser said.

There is also a sizable hole left by the graduation of last year’s sweeper Shannon Lowrance, and it is unclear
who will step into that spot. “It’s a hard position (sweeper). It almost takes a personality to play it, and
that makes it difficult for anyone to step in,” Cornelius said.

Hundley was reluctant to comment on who might replace Lowrance, but did say the starting lineup would vary throughout the
season. “This is more depth than we’ve ever had, and it’s a very pleasant development,” he said. “With the number
of quality freshmen in addition to 8 and 1/2 starters returning means we don’t have enough positions on the field.
People will be playing fewer minutes and hopefully they’ll make those minutes more productive.”

Depleted men's basketball squad loses another top player

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

As if losing All-Southern Conference performers Brandon Williams, Quinn Harwood, and Chris Alpert to graduation wasn’t bad enough, now this:
Ray Minlend, who started at shooting guard last year and was to be one of few returning stars on this
year’s team, has reportedly transferred to St. Francis College in Brooklyn, N.Y.

“I think maybe it was a social situation,” said head coach Bob McKillop last night. “That’s where his brother (who
plays for St. John’s) is. He’s got a girlfriend in New York. And that was apparently a high priority at
this time in his life.”

Minlend’s closest friends on the team were Williams and Harwood and current senior and fellow Cameroonian Narcisse Ewodo. “It’s obviously
upsetting to Cisco (Ewodo),” said McKillop. “Cisco was the closest friend Ray had here.

“But nothing’s official,” added the 1995 Southern Conference Coach of the Year, saying that he saw Minlend two weeks ago
in New York, and the 6-3, 190-lb. slasher was still unsure of his decision. But throughout most of the conversation,
McKillop spoke as if Minlend’s mind was made up.

“I prefer not to dwell on the loss of Raymond. We’ve got a terrific returning team, I think. I’m real
optimistic about what Cisco and Mark (Donnelly) can do in terms of leadership. And the freshman class is as strong
as it’s ever been.”

Maybe, but the losses from last year’s 25-5 and regular season league champion team are significant, if not crushing. “Whether
we can be anywhere near close to last year would be a great challenge,” McKillop admitted.
