Che David ALENDA LUX U-B ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1996 VOLUME 88, NUMBER 2

US Military decides to suspend Davidson ROTC
By Ann Cup
Staff Writer

As a result of a decision handed down by the United States Military, Davidson will no longer host the Army’s
Reserved Officer Training Corps (ROTC) program next year. After a 77-year history at the school, the Davidson ROTC program will
end this May.

Plans to shut down ROTC programs at approximately a hundred colleges and universities across the U.S. in the next three
years were announced by the United States Military in May 1995. According to Lt. Kevin Colcord, Professor of Military Science
for the ROTC program at Davidson, the decision stems from the Military’s lower requirement for officers due to the ending
of the Cold War.

In the past 12 years, 144 officers have graduated from Davidson, for an average of 12 graduating officers each year.
The Army is closing schools with less than 15 officers graduating each year. “The quality of ROTC cadets produced by
Davidson is remarkable, but essentially our numbers make the Army consider us for closure,” said Colcord.

The 45 Davidson students directly affected by the ROTC’s closing face a decision to attend military classes at the University
of North Carolina-Charlotte (UNCC) while continuing their education at Davidson or to leave the ROTC program. If a participant attends
UNCC, their ROTC scholarship to Davidson would not be in danger. In addition, ten $20,000 scholarships are offered each year
through a government program that will continue at Davidson even without an ROTC program on campus.

Sophomore Daniel Cantey, who has been involved with ROTC for two years, said he is very disappointed with the ending
of the program. “I wish ROTC piqued more students’ interests,” said Cantey. “The military offers so much to people —
such as travel and training for the business world.” Sophomore Josh Glazer is also disappointed in the turn of events.
“ROTC also offers a chance to enter the military at officer level,” he said.

New court? Students express mixed feelings after first party weekend
By Ann Hatfield
Staff Writer

After fierce debate last semester, Davidson trustees enacted a no-keg policy that many students feel jeopardizes the cohesion of the
Court. This weekend, that policy was tested for the first time.

Due to matters of liability, Davidson's self-study argued two years ago that the new “no common container” policy was long
overdue and pointed out that national fraternities banned the use of kegs over ten years ago. The new policy approved
by the trustees last spring mandates that there be no more than 25 cases of beer at any organization-supplied event,
and all beer must be in the form of cans. At combination events (those sponsored by multiple social organizations), “the
organization may supply a quantity based upon nine beers per member of legal drinking age or 15 cases, whichever is
less.” Non-members may bring up to nine beers per person.

This past Friday night, Connor and Phi Delta Theta held the first BYOB party. Guests checked with IDers at the
front door and 21-year-olds received wristbands. 21-year-old guests could then take their beer to the basement where it was placed
in a labeled bin. Each 21-year-old who brought beer was given a card indicating the amount of beer brought and
the bin where it was deposited.

Rusk's party on Saturday night seemed more familiar to most upperclassmen. Cans were poured into cups, and party policy was
business as usual.

See New policy on page 3

Did they really jump?
ARTS & LIVING

If you can’t beat ’em ... Two runners escape the late summer sun by hiding underneath the table.of cakes baked
by the Davidson community for the 1996 cake race last Tuesday. The male winner was William Isenhour; the female winner
was Ray Shell Brosche. Men and women who came in first received cakes.

Presidential search continues
By Randy HARTWELL
Associate News Editor

With President Kuykendall rounding out his last term in office this year, the Presidential Search Committee has been hard at
work. Trustee Larry Dagenhart, chair of the committee, says that active recruitment began in May. He notes that Davidson’s prestige
has “elicited many direct inquiries,” which should ensure a competitive applicant pool. On August 21st, the search committee met to
discuss interviews in September. Dagenhart anticipates meetings with the most qualified applicants in October and may ask “outstanding” candidates for
campus visits in November. The committee wants to find its president-elect as early as possible to allow ample time for
acclimation to Davidson.

The fall of Back Street: restaurant to become “Jasper’s”
Back Street bosses go back to basics; boisterous bistro bets on bigger budgets
By Randy HARTWELL
Associate News Editor

On June 22, 1996, the Charlotte Observer paid tribute to the passing of 19 individuals in its “Death Notices” section.
But it didn’t notice the death of one of Davidson’s most cherished landmarks the previous day: Back Street Café died
on June 21. Owners Rick and Kathy Bryant say that six years of running the neighborhood bar and restaurant had
taken their toll. "We've got a little girl, and it was just taking a lot of time away from our
family," says Rick Bryant. The Bryants put Back Street on the market in the spring, and by June had entered
into negotiations with Robert and Diana Metzler, parents of Chad Metzler '98. Investors from Cleveland, the Metzlers had been looking
at properties for restaurant redevelopment in the Davidson area. When their friends at the Davidson Inn informed them of the
Bryants’ wish to sell, the Metzlers gave them an offer. “They wanted to sell it, and he was looking for
a place,” said Chad of his father. Rick Bryant says that with the Metzlers' track record, they have reason to
be confident. "But they need to know that this is North Carolina, and things don't happen so fast here," he
cautions. "We wish them all the luck in the world... but it won't be your local tavern."

In keeping with a trend in the other few blocks of the Davidson downtown area, the Metzlers plan a cleaner,
spruced-up incarnation of the property on Depot Street. “It’ll be nice, but not really fancy,” said Chad. “They’ll have steaks
and pasta at dinner, and sandwiches at lunchtime. It won’t cost any more than Lone Star or Kobe. It'll be
a nice place for a date, and there will still be a bar.” The restaurant and bar, which is to
be named “Jasper’s” after Chad’s great-grandfather, will be run by his uncle, Dahl Metzler, a restaurant manager. The restaurant is
slated to open in September or October. The interior has been “gutted, and they’re re-doing the brick work and putting
on new doors,” says Chad. Jasper’s is even “trying to work out a deal so students can use their Cat
Cards there,” he said. Students will miss Back Street, however. “I had been a regular since I was a freshman,”
says Eddie Gordon ’96, who tended bar there for over a year. “I’m just glad I got to enjoy it
while I could.” "Davidson's been good to us," says Rick Bryant. "We'll really miss it.”

When the boards are removed, Davidson will have Jasper’s.

Women’s soccer... 7
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
First Class Mail
