6 THE DAVIDSONIAN ELSEWHERE MONDAY, MARCH 25, 1996

Week in Washington

Clinton unveils 1997 budget

By DAVID SANTSCHI
Washington Week Correspondent

Tuesday morning, President Clinton presented a $1.64 trillion budget for fiscal 1997. While containing few new proposals, the plan would result in a budget surplus by 2002. The 2,000-page draft is largely based on the compromises that Clinton already made to Republicans during the failed balanced-budget talks held two months ago. Discussion on the plan will not begin until the current 1996 budget crisis is resolved.

“Until we get past this year’s problem, the 1997 budget is just a debating point with Republicans,” said a senior administration official on Monday.

The new budget is important politically because it will form the basis for a legislative struggle between the president and Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole (R-KS), both of whom are presidential candidates. According to Leon Panetta, White House Chief of Staff, “a very unique window of opportunity” exists before the summer campaign season in which the two contenders will grapple over the budget, welfare, and Medicare reform. Both sides will be carefully calculating the political impact of their support for any legislative compromises.

Clinton forecasts modest economic growth of 2.3% per year for the next five years. His budget would cut taxes by $117.5 billion over seven years, including a $500 per child tax credit for middle and lower-income families and a deduction of $10,000 for college tuition. Clinton would increase spending on education and the environment and extract $124 billion in savings by reducing Medicare growth. There would be no capital gains tax cut for investors. The budget would be balanced by 2002, although most of the cuts are postponed until 2000, precisely when Clinton would leave office if he wins a second term.

Dole reacted cautiously to Clinton’s budget. “If you want a real balanced budget, if you want to make fundamental changes, I’m willing to sit down with you. You’ll get credit. I’ll get credit.” Clinton’s plan already allows him to claim credit for proposing a balanced budget, and any legislative compromises that Clinton can sign would show voters that he can fulfill his campaign promises. Many observers predict that Republicans will send Clinton bills that he will veto so that they can portray the president as an obstructionist. Dole is already touting Clinton as “Veto Bill.” With a Republican majority in Congress, Dole will have a far easier time achieving legislative results that he can use in the fall campaign.

In an important ruling for American college campuses, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit of Louisiana found that universities cannot prefer minorities in admissions decisions, even to increase diversity. The three-judge panel ruled unanimously last week that the Constitution does not allow the University of Texas Law School “to continue to elevate some races over others, even for the wholesome practice of correcting perceived racial imbalance.” The suit was brought by four white students who were denied admission even though they had higher test scores than admitted minority applicants. The ruling is far more conservative than the landmark Supreme Court decision of Regents of the University of California v. Bakke, which held that to increase campus diversity, race could be considered in admissions.

“This is clearly another nail in the coffin of racial preferences,” said Clinton Bolick, litigation director of the conservative legal group Institute for Justice. Ted Shaw of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund Inc. accused the court of “dismantling the entire body of case law in the area of race discrimination.” The University of Texas has not decided whether to appeal the ruling to the Supreme Court. Scholars are uncertain whether the high court will review the case, let alone reverse it. Meanwhile, administrators at the University of Texas predicted that the number of black and Hispanic students might be cut “by half or more.”

Sources include: March 19 and 21 of The New York Times and March 19 of The Wall Street Journal.

Global Perspective

Doubt cast on the future of Bosnia

By ANDY BARWIG
Guest Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

The historic Dayton Agreement and the snowy images of combat battalions crossing rivers into Bosnia seem to have faded from the minds of many Americans. Indeed, a rash of foreign policy crises from the downing of two anti-Castro planes over Cuba to the Chinese war games in the Taiwan Strait has relegated the NATO peacekeeping mission in Bosnia to brief mention in the daily headlines. Has peace and stability finally come to the war-torn Balkan region?

All is not well in Bosnia. A string of recent events has underscored the frailty of the peace agreement and has suggested the likelihood that Bosnia will plunge into the abyss of civil war once again after American forces withdraw at the end of this year.

First, the transition of Sarajevo’s suburbs to the Bosnian government’s control has been far from what the leaders at Dayton envisioned. Hopes for Sarajevo to serve as an example of ethnic harmony and reconciliation have transformed into a grim reality as Bosnian Serbs fearing retributions from the government authorities have left their homes outside of Sarajevo.

Second, with all the public outrage over gross human rights violations and ethnic cleansing which brought the international community into the conflict in the first place, the worst perpetrators of these crimes against humanity continue to roam free in areas controlled by militias. One of the Bosnian Serb leaders who was personally involved in the shelling of civilian areas in Sarajevo recently made a brazen public appearance at a ski resort outside of the capital city, flaunting the impotence of peacekeeping forces to establish any precedent of justice for crimes done in the past. These scars of war will not heal within theSingle year allocated for the peacekeeping mission in Bosnia. The locus of the debate tends to focus on America’s steadfast stance for its departure date from Bosnia. Careful to set a definite date for the withdrawal of all its forces from Bosnia, America was seeking to avoid the same kind of mission creep which wrecked peacekeeping efforts in Somalia. Is one year enough time to expect a nation to rebuild and agreements to cement? Military forces inside Bosnia have dug in for the year, allowing time to regroup, re-arm, and retrain. Sustainable peace still seems to remain in deep freeze. The question is, will the coming thaw signal a return to hostilities?

Paraguay’s international adoptions under suspicion

Paraguay’s court system has become the target of numerous accusations; that it has repeatedly sanctioned illicit international adoptions of Paraguayan children during the past few years. One Paraguayan woman recently stepped forward, intent on challenging the allegedly corruption-riddled system. She claims that her 14-month-old daughter was stolen and sold for international adoption to an American couple in 1993. Since the demise in 1989 of Paraguay’s dictatorial government, which had ruled the small South American country for 35 years, Paraguay has come to supply more children for adoption in the US than any other South American country.

Disco fire in Manila results in over 100 fatalities

During Tuesday’s early morning hours, fire broke out in a crowded disco in Manila, capital of the Philippines. Literally packed with teenagers in the midst of a school-end celebration, the entire building was ravaged by flames. Hours after the fire, 80 bodies had been recovered from the wreckage, and officials predicted that the death toll would likely reach 150.

Cuban emigrants’ hopes rise with lottery announcement

Last week, just days after the US government announced its intention to hold a second lottery to allow Cubans to emigrate to the US, throngs of Cubans gathered in Havana outside the United States’ Interests Section, hoping to hand in their lottery applications. The lottery system was devised in 1994 by the US in an attempt to curb the flow of Cuban boat people entering the US. Through the lottery, Cubans who do not have relatives in the US and might not otherwise qualify for emigration are given a chance of acceptance into the United States.

Western envoys say HAMAS budget funneled through Jordan

Western leaders, reacting to a string of deadly terrorist acts against Israel for which HAMAS, a militant Islamic movement, claimed responsibility, urged Jordanian officials to shut down HAMAS operations within Jordan. Jordanian Information Minister Marwan Muasher denied HAMAS presence in the nation saying, “There are no HAMAS offices in Jordan.” Yet Muasher was forced to admit that HAMAS representatives maintain operations in the political headquarters of Jordan’s legal organization, the Muslim Brotherhood. The Brotherhood holds 17 of 80 parliamentary seats in Jordan’s government. Western intelligence officials insist that much of HAMAS’ $70 million budget is channeled to the group through Jordan.

Sources include: The New York Times March 19 and 21, 1996 etc.

“Blinding Sperm” could lead to male contraceptive

RALEIGH, NC—A North Carolina State University scientist has developed a synthetic chemical compound that “blinds” sperm and may lead to a male contraceptive. The compound, a sugar analogue, has been found to inhibit 98% of the enzymatic activity needed for sperm maturation and fertility in male rats, without altering their hormonal balance, reports Dr. Joseph C. Hall, Assistant Professor of Biochemistry at NCSU. “The analogue appears to have a short onset of action, negligible effects on the libido and no residual effect on the rat’s fertility after the dosage has been discontinued,” he says. How’s it work? Normally, a male enzyme gives the sperm cell the ability to recognize, bind with, and penetrate the membrane of eggs, resulting in fertilization. The analogue inhibits this enzyme. Additional research will be needed before scientists can know if it is safe and effective on humans, Hall says. —College Press Services

Angels from page 1

The controversial scene lasts about seven hours. In addition, the scene takes place in a hospital room during a medical examination, not in the bedroom. The character, an AIDS patient, removes his clothes reluctantly for a nurse to check his lesions, and these few seconds of nudity are the basis for Chambers’ argument to pull the play. Many other plays contain male frontal nudity, including Equus by Paul Shaffer. Our Davidson College Theater Department produced Equus in 1994, yet lead actor Adam Knapp was not arrested, nor did protestors march opening night. The real issue is the homosexual content in Angels in America, not the nude scene.

By four o’clock, a group of pro-Angels supporters was ready and motivated to counter-protest Chambers. Christa Abbott canceled rehearsal for that night, and signs were made to blazon our support. By the time the protest began at 6:30 p.m., theater students had gathered about 12 students to support Angels. We marched along with approximately 150 other supporters and chanted “Censorship has got to go!” The police kept us separated from the 20 Concerned Charlotteans that protested on the other side of the block. Despite the cold weather, spirits were high among the pro-Angels group, as we shouted “Freedom in Art!” and other chants. A popular one was: “What do we want? Free Speech! Where do we want it? Charlotte!” Ticket holders marched with us until the show began.

Angels in America will be running until March 27th in its complete form, but after that date, the scene may be changed or the play canceled. If the play is forced to change, Kushner is considering taking the case to the Supreme Court as a violation of free speech. As one of the Angels supporters and a theater student, I can only hope that the play will be allowed to run in its pure form.