6 THE DAVIDSONIAN ELSEWHERE

Week in Washington: Buchanan surge alters GOP race
By David Santschi
Washington Week Correspondent

In one of the closest primaries in New Hampshire history, Republican presidential candidate Pat Buchanan narrowly surpassed his rivals, capturing
27% of the vote. “Wearing the worries of the Republican mainstream as a badge of honor,” Buchanan beat Sen. Bob
Dole (R-KS), who received 26%, and former Tennessee governor Lamar Alexander, who received 23%. His victory has two major implications.
First, it shows that his more controversial ideas—raising tariffs, conducting an isolationist foreign policy, and outlawing abortion—have the potential to
propel him to the forefront of the race. Second, it ignites a fierce competition between Dole and Alexander over who
will be the mainstream alternative to Buchanan.

An exuberant Buchanan appeared on Wednesday at Mount Rushmore in South Dakota hammering at his standard economic themes. “The American
economy was designed for the American workers and the American families,” he said. Buchanan, who speaks often of the loss
of American jobs and an emerging world government, is conducting a shoestring, populist campaign to rally social conservatives and economically
insecure, working-class voters.

Buchanan’s rise has alarmed many mainstream Republicans. Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) said that “the campaign has departed from our basic
themes.” He and others dislike Buchanan’s emphasis on social issues and his protectionist trade position. New York City Mayor Rudolph
Giuliani said bluntly, “We’re going to do everything we can to stop Buchanan.” Moderate Republicans increasingly believe that either Alexander
or Dole must withdraw from the race to head off Buchanan. Colin Powell on Wednesday criticized Buchanan for being too
divisive. “This is not the time for intolerance. This is the time for inclusion,” he said.

Buchanan has been accused of making overtly racist comments in his writings. Hispanics have deplored his promise to erect a
fence on the US-Mexico border and halt legal immigration for five years. Former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke attended
a Buchanan rally in Louisiana, and Russian ultranationalist Vladimir Zhirinovsky called Buchanan “a brother in arms” and suggested that they
work together to deport Jews.

An embarrassed Dole, who seemed assured of the nomination just weeks ago, must convince his party that he is the
true voice of mainstream conservatism. Speaking in North Dakota, Dole declared that he has “returned to the heartland of America
to fight for the heart and soul of the Republican Party.” He painted Buchanan as “an extremist,” claiming that the
votes Buchanan is drawing are “not the majority of votes in our party.” Dole is depending on his strong organizational
structure, his 4 to 1 monetary advantage over his rivals, and endorsements from over two dozen Republican governors to boost
his campaign. However, no candidate has won the nomination without New Hampshire since 1964.

Alexander, who is capitalizing on the perception that Dole is a damaged candidate, said that “the Dole campaign is floundering,
it’s on the verge of sinking.” Placing Dole and Buchanan squarely inside the Washington establishment, Alexander must convince voters that
only he can defeat President Clinton. However, Alexander will have difficulty in competing with Dole in the 26 states that
hold primaries in the next three weeks. While his regional ties and style make him appealing in the South, Alexander
has only $1.2 million in cash and a limited organization.

President Clinton is being careful to appear dignified and presidential throughout the primary season. “I’m not going to get involved
in their business,” he said Wednesday. With $27 million in reserve for the actual campaign and no consensus on a
Republican nominee, Clinton can afford to keep a low profile. The longer the nomination fight lasts, the more likely the
Republicans will be torn apart by factions and primary season rhetoric.

Sources include: February 21, 22, 23 of The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal.

Global Perspective
Threat of Chinese invasion looms over Taiwan’s first elections
By Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

Taiwan is planning to have one of its first real democratic elections next month. With only a month left, current
president Lee Teng-hui has a substantial lead in opinion polls. It appears that, barring a major catastrophe, Taiwan’s next president
will be Teng-hui. The problem is that there just may be a major catastrophe.

To understand the possible problem, one needs to go back to 1949 when the Chinese Communists overthrew Chiang Kai-shek, and
he and his government fled the mainland to the island of Taiwan. The Korean War brought US interests into Asia,
and the US navy “persuaded” China to let the breakaway republic be (at least for the time being). The US
continued to recognize the government in Taiwan as the legitimate Chinese government for the next 30 years. However, in 1978
the US switched its recognition of legitimacy to China, and Taiwan was left with a government not recognized by the
rest of the world.

This lack of official recognition did not sever US-Taiwan ties, however. The Taiwan Relations Act, which is still in effect,
requires that the US involve itself if Taiwan is threatened. This act is not quite as binding as it may
seem. There is no guarantee as to the level of involvement or whether military force will be used. But there
is at least an official commitment. Secondly, the US and Taiwan have built up a very large tradingrelationship over the
past decade and a half. Over that period, Taiwan has amassed a very successful and lucrative economy. It is the
12th largest trader on the world market and has almost as much trade with the US as China does. China’s
fear is that as Taiwan becomes more democratic, it will be more likely to become officially recognized. China’s position as
the only legitimate government of the Chinese people is very important to its leaders and military. Taiwan’s steady movement toward
democracy has caused China to fear that its unique status may not last. As a result, it has officially threatened
to launch missile attacks and possibly invade Taiwan if Teng-hui is re-elected. Thus far, the US has taken no concrete
action. The US policy at this point appears to be to wait out the threat and hope that nothing happens.
Although many people are arguing that the US should take a stronger stand, the threat of a Chinese invasion is
not overwhelming. While China does have an army of 2.9 million (compared to 370,000 in Taiwan), US intelligence reports indicate
that China only has enough vessels to land 20,000 men on the Taiwanese shore in the case of an invasion.
Also, while China has a huge army, it is in the dark ages technologically. Taiwan, on the other hand, has
a rather up-to-date army and air force. There is definitely great fear among some that China might invade Taiwan or
begin missile attacks. However, in the event of a Chinese attack on Taiwan, even if the US were to stay
out of a China-Taiwan conflict militarily, there is little doubt that the US and the rest of the Western world
would implement harsh economic punishments. That, coupled with the possibility that China might not even win the conflict, probably will
be more than enough to keep China’s threats simply threats.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1996

IRA not ceasing fire

Since the end of the ceasefire between the IRA and Great Britain, which was followed three hours later by a
huge bomb explosion in the Docklands, there have been several additional bombings and bomb threats. The most notable of these
was a bomb that tore apart a double-decker bus in London earlier this week. — Economist Feb 17

Yeltsin to run against Zyuganov

Boris Yeltsin officially announced his candidacy for re-election this last week. With four months left until the Russian elections in
June, Gennady Zyuganov (the communist leader) is well in the lead. — Ibid

Farrakhan returns to US

Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan returned from his controversial 18-nation tour of Africa and the Middle East on Friday
without incident. Although there was speculation that his passport might be revoked in response to statements he allegedly made regarding
terrorism and the US, his readmittance into the US was described as “normal.” — Observer Feb 11-17

$50,000 — The Hard Way

Christopher Conley, 14, received a $50,000 settlement from Lifetime Products, the manufacturer of a basketball net. Conley, of Nashua, NH,
had sued because his teeth had gotten caught in the net as he went up for a dunk shot, resulting
in the need for massive dental work. — Chuck Shepherd’s News of the Weird

At least he’s honest

Bill Becker, whose criminal record spans 30 years of stealing from wealthy suburbs, will end since a federal judge finally
convicted him to 15 years in prison. Becker was not too upset after the verdict, simply stating, “I robbed from
the rich, kind of like Robin Hood, except I kept it.” — Break

Dave on New York

“OK, sure there’s gridlock, sure there’s pollution, sure there’s noise, but where else can you get a hot dog for
$7?” — Newsweek

Viewing democracy a little differently

“Honestly speaking, who the hell knows?” Russian pop singer Iosif Kobzon asked why he ran in last year’s parliamentary elections.
— Newsweek

Censorship at Cornelius Elementary?

Reading the ending of a Judy Blume book with her daughter, Lyann Oke began to feel very uncomfortable as she
skipped ahead and saw what was to come. Text about foreplay, intercourse, and masturbation were not the kinds of things
she wanted her third-grade daughter to be reading about. Oke said when she showed the Judy Blume book, Deenie, to
her husband, he couldn’t believe it either. “I was sick about it,” she told parents, teachers, and Cornelius Elementary School
administrators. The book, which her daughter checked out of the school library, does not belong on an elementary school library
shelf, she believes. Oke contacted school officials and is currently going through the proper steps of challenging a book within
the school system. “I am not a troublemaker,” she told the PTA audience. “The bottom line is it’s our right
as parents to decide when, how, and why our children are going to learn about sex.” According to Charlotte-Mecklenburg School
policy, a challenged book is taken off the shelves until a time when it is deemed OK to return it,
if at all. Oke said her position will rest on the fact that school policy promotes abstinence until marriage. The
characters in the book who are exploring sexual avenues in a locker room are unmarried. Many parents present voiced concerns
about such sexually explicit material in an elementary school library. Oke said she plans to follow through with her complaint
until the book is removed from the school system. — Feb. 21 Lake Norman Shopper’s Guide
