DAVIDSONIAN

Win! from Page 1

attempt was blocked, and Davidson settled for a 6-3 lead. Guilford answered, as David Heggie dashed two yards to the corner of the endzone on a fourth-and-goal play, giving the Quakers a 10-6 halftime advantage. But after Ben Brown returned the second half kickoff to the 45-yard line, the Wildcats took nine plays to recapture the lead with 9:42 left in the third quarter. Ferguson punched it in from a yard out and Mileham’s extra point gave Davidson a 13-10 edge. And the Wildcat defense took over from there, pitching a second-half shutout.

“This was a defensive game,” said Strader. “Our defense is really something to be reckoned with. They brought home the win.” Led by Shreve Ariail (10 tackles), Marcus Williams (two tackles for losses), Mike Warrick (six tackles and a sack), Wes Thornton (six tackles), and Spivey up front, the defense held the Quakers to only 112 rushing yards. The secondary also recorded many big plays, as Clif Henry (six tackles, two pass breakups), Dan Dearing (two breakups), Donnie Johnson (eight tackles), and Kevin Graham (three breakups and an interception) effectively neutralized a dangerous Guilford receiving corps. Graham, in a vital defensive assignment, kept speedy All-American candidate Junior Lord out of the endzone.

“We know that when Kevin’s in situations like that, he’s going to pull through,” said head coach Tim Landis. “I’m just so thrilled for the players and for the school and for the alumni that we got a win,” added Strader.

Duke whips sinking men’s soccer

By DANIEL MOTZ
Copy Editor

Durham - Playing Duke on the road is hard enough. And facing the fourth-ranked Blue Devils after their first loss - a 4-1 drubbing in Maryland - proved to be even harder, as Davidson dropped its fourth straight and sixth in seven outings, 4-0.

“We knew that Duke was going to come out hungry,” said head coach Charlie Slagle. “They wanted to show that they are as good as people said they were.” And they convinced Slagle and his slumping Wildcats. The rout was the fifth shutout recorded by Duke goalkeeper John Morton and the fifth time the Wildcats have been blanked this season.

Davidson suffered a defeat of sorts before the soccer match ever began. The Blue Devils won the initial coin flip, forcing the Wildcats to defend the goal against the wind in the first half. Duke (7-1) took advantage and controlled the ball from the outset. Threatening to score throughout the first 20 minutes of the game, the Blue Devils finally broke through halfway through the first half, as Gaston Haupert took a Jay Heaps pass and beat Wildcat keeper Matt Hill.

After falling behind, Davidson seemed to compose themselves. They started to counter-attack and create offensive chances. But as so often has been the case this season, chances did not translate into goals, and the Wildcats came up empty.

“We can talk about the little things, but the reason we’re not winning is because we cannot put the ball in the back of the net right now,” said Slagle. With 1:38 left in the first half, Matt Shattuck, in the biggest play of the game, scored off of an outstanding back feed by Heaps, giving Duke a 2-0 halftime lead.

“Going into halftime only trailing 1-0 would have been weathering the storm against the wind,” said Slagle. “But the second goal may have sealed it for them.” Davidson came out recharged in the second half, getting several good looks at the goal, including a Robert Clarke one-on-one with Morton. But again the Wildcats were unable to convert.

The game then quickly turned into Heaps’ personal highlight film. The superstar, who scored 15 goals and 11 assists last year and also played for the Blue Devils basketball squad, collected his first two goals of this season midway through the second half, accounting for the final four-goal margin. Heaps also had two assists.

While Jay Heaps wasn't at Marshall on Sunday, Davidson had enough trouble with the Thundering Herd. In perhaps the low point of the season, the Wildcats fell to Marshall 2-0. For Davidson (6-8, 2-2), it is time to put up or shut up. With an NCAA at-large bid now a forgotten dream, the Wildcats must concentrate on theirSouthern Conference foes and a second-straight league championship.

Volleyball falls to conference foes
By Drew WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The Davidson volleyball team (5-12) put forth a valiant effort this weekend, but came up short, with two losses to East Tennessee State and Appalachian State.

"Physically we played well, and put forth a great effort, but we just let it slip away,” said coach Radford after the ETSU defeat.

Friday night’s matchup against ETSU ended in a 3-1 defeat. Emily Willeford led the ‘Cats in kills with 11, and L.A. Bumgarner had 18 digs.

Sunday’s matchup pitted the Cats against App. St., and after a 15-3 thrashing in the first game, the Cats rebounded with a 15-8 win, but then dropped the next two games 15-3, 15-9. L.A. Bumgarner suffered a head injury in the third game when she “boomed” heads with teammate Leslie Carbone. L.A. bounced back, however, and led the Wildcats in digs with 15.

The Appalachian State game marked the halfway point in the Cats' season, and coach Radford was extremely pleased with the progress the team has made so far.

Crew strokes into new season
By Joslyn OGDEN
Staff Writer

Leaving around 2:30 on Friday afternoon with two boats strapped atop a 15-passenger van, the Davidson Club Crew team journeyed to Baltimore for the Arial Head of the Patapsco Regatta. Davidson competed against Johns Hopkins, Duke, St. Mary’s, Loyola, and St. John’s in men’s varsity, women’s varsity, and women’s novice.

The men’s boat, guided by Dough Penhallegon, John Hong, Joshua Peklo, David Jackson, and coxswain Stephen Gamboa, finished a grueling, three-mile, downriver race in 21:04, three minutes behind the winning crew. The women’s varsity of Kelly Westbrook, Catherine Walsh, Catherine O’Dell, Sarah Mufflemen, and coxswain Adair Prater, posted a solid fourth-place finish. Julia Chemotti, Alice Owens, Lori Bepuu, and Joslyn Ogden led the women’s novice boat to a third-place performance.

Both varsity boats are preparing for the Head of the Charles Regatta in Boston, one of the most prestigious rowing events in the nation, on Oct. 20.

Understanding Alomar
By Daniel MOTZ
Copy Editor

I will never be called a spick. Nor will many of the people who criticize Roberto Alomar. Ever since his arrival to the bigs eight years ago, Alomar has been nothing short of a class act. Admittedly, his recent actions were just wrong. While condoning Alomar’s actions would be unjust and insensitive, understanding his side of the story is a much more plausible approach.

After being called out on strikes by Hirschbeck, Alomar complained mildly and walked back to the Oriole dugout. Unsatisfied with the intensity of the argument, Hirschbeck stormed toward the dugout — an umpire confronting a player is a universal no-no — and began shouting racial obscenities at Alomar. Alomar jumped out of the dugout, running toward the racist umpire. Alomar’s subsequent act was perhaps the most unfortunate occurrence in baseball history, but I ask you, what, if worked up by racial slurs and the intensity of the moment, would you do if face-to-face with a bigot?

The media has eaten up every last scrap of this incident. Once a class act, Alomar has suddenly transformed into a despicable human being. But no, I submit that John Hirschbeck is the despicable human being. Why has he been cast as the hero in this drama? Sure, Roberto Alomar didn’t show respect to John Hirschbeck, the umpire, but John Hirschbeck showed no respect to Roberto Alomar, the human being.

Roberto Alomar deserves his five-game suspension. And Hirschbeck? Perhaps instead of whining about the leniency of Alomar’s punishment, we should marvel at the lack of discipline levied on Hirschbeck. Roberto Alomar is an outstanding baseball player. More importantly, he is, and always will be, a fine human being. The same cannot be said for John Hirschbeck.

NAIL BOUTIQUE
The Duchess Nail, Hair & Tanning Salon
Full service salon for women & men
892-7030

"Best Prices in Town"
Nails
manicures * pedicures in European spa pedicure chair
acrylic * gels * tips * fiberglass

Tanning
"Hottest Bulbs in Town"
$4.00 per session * $33.00 for 10 sessions
$43.00 for 15 sessions * $50.00 for 20 sessions

Treat yourself...you deserve it
Ask for Connie, Michelle, or Susan
RedKen Hair Products & more...
Located 1/2 mile south of Davidson College Campus
20700 N. Main St.

Help Wanted:
10-15 hours/week
Computer work, editing, writing
Flexible hours: Late afternoons, evenings, weekends
Mooresville
$8/hour
Instructional and Accountability Systems
Call 664-2216