4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 25, 1996

Keg decision enters final stages

By Naresh Nagella
Assistant News Editor

The decision on whether or not to ban kegs is entering its final stages this month. A sub-committee formed by Dean Shandley will forward a final proposal on how the ban would take place. Next, the Council on Campus and Religious Life will vote on the merits of that proposal April 4. The SGA has also formed an ad-hoc committee to gather more student feedback on the issue, formed by eight SGA senators, Buford, and seven students. The CCRL decision then goes to President Kuykendall. He can either pass it on to the Trustees or veto it. The Trustee vote should take place in the middle of April.

“That is why we want to hear about student ideas and concerns (regarding the ban),” says Senior Peter Varney, member of CCRL. He says, “I feel many people are not happy about it (the ban). Students can be assured the CCRL will give all ideas and concerns a lot of thought. We want to be as open as we can to different possibilities.”

CCRL member Ellen Rockwell says that “even though we have not been given the specifics [of the proposal], we should find a way to keep kegs here. We do understand the difficulties [in doing so]. One of our main priorities is making sure the parties stay open.”

Dean Shandley is skeptical. “It’s just not worth the risk,” he says of kegs remaining legal on campus.

You saw them on the Football Field in rain or shine! You saw them...

CHEERLEADING AND DANCE TEAM TRYOUTS

First you must go to the meeting. Second you must go home and practice. Third you must teach them the routines and stunts. Auditions will be judged by a panel including the Cheerleading Coach, former cheerleaders, and College Cheerleaders from other schools.

GRADUATE SCHOOL?

Invest now in a plan that will allow you to graduate debt-free without sacrificing your study time. 892-8456 Ask for Mollie.

IN THE HABIT

Professor Homer Sutton and Ben Kinnaman discuss Habitat plans during the faculty/staff retreat. Bill Giduz

With only $3,000 left to go to meet their fundraising goal, Wildcat Habitat volunteers took to the phones over the weekend in order to seek more donations. Until March 28 they will be calling students, faculty, and staff who have not yet given to the project. The Habitat committee hopes to raise enough money to meet their $30,000 goal through the phone-a-thon.

“We’re really excited we’ve made it this far, and we’re looking forward to meeting or even surpassing our goal,” said fundraising committee member Amy Hawfield.

Donors will be able to pay with check, Mastercard, or Visa. If anyone wishes to help out with the phone-a-thon, please call Kim Hauch (-6546) for more information.

Wildcat Habitat has been working on acquiring in-kind donations from companies and individuals. A committee, headed by Dr. John Wertheimer, will be contacting local businesses and soliciting donations. If you know someone connected to the construction business, please contact Wertheimer (-2582) with that information.

Construction at the site has been going very well. The footing, which is a trench filled with concrete, has been put in and covered with a cinder block. The frame will be put up next week, weather permitting. A trailer will be placed on site for the storing of tools and equipment to keep them out of the weather.

Katherine Cooke of the volunteer committee has sent out forms to various campus groups for them to choose a day in which to volunteer.It will be a good opportunity for groups on campus to volunteer for a worthy cause and will help to unite the campus as a whole. If your group would like to pick a day — or several — on which to come out and volunteer, please call Katherine Cooke (-2298).

Independents and Houses raise money in annual SGA phonathon
By Beto Bacon
Staff Writer

From Sunday to Thursday, students, faculty, and local class chairs raised $91,513 in the annual SGA/Annual Fund Phonathon held in Chambers Gallery from 6-9 each night. Director of the Annual Fund Lanier Brown, Class of ’82, says, “This was one of the best phonathons in my recent memories. We had more students involved than ever before. There was a great turnout from all the different houses.”

SGA president and phonathon chair Warren Buford says, “The phonathon was a remarkable success. It brought students together, and it raised a lot of money for things that are needed for the students.” The overall goal of the Annual Fund is to raise $4 million, with 55% participation, to support tuition costs and to keep Davidson running on a daily basis. Without this money, Davidson would be running on 90% capacity.

All Patterson Court Houses, freshmen, and independents participate in the calling. Rusk House collected the most money. Senior Catherine Thompson, a phonathon chair, says, “[The students] had a lot of morale. It’s a lot of fun to do. We had a really good time calling people, giving out prizes, and raising money for the school. Everything went really smoothly this year.” Other phonathon chairs included Katie Finch, Rosie Molinary, and Lucy Sherman.

Assistant Director to the Annual Fund Allison Wright, Davidson College class of ‘94, says, “Not only is the SGA Phonathon crucial in that it helps the Annual Fund raise the dollars necessary to keep Davidson running, it also serves an important PR purpose. The student phonathon is one of the best ways for alumni to remain in contact with Davidson.” Brown echoes Wright’s thoughts: “It’s nice for the alumni to hear from the students, because they are reminded that Davidson is still the same great place.”

“Its success can be contributed to fantastic leadership of all night chairmen, all house representatives, and the hard work put into the phonathon by Rosie, Katie, Lucy, Catherine, and Warren,” adds Wright. Buford says, “I’d especially like to thank Allison Wright who organized and worked well with the students. I’m very, very pleased.”

Self-Study from page 1

Still, as the Self-Study indicates, the gay experience at Davidson is far from ideal. FLAG president, sophomore Robert Knight says, “I’ve had some problems with a couple of guys my freshman year as well as with a campus religious organization, but I do think the environment is improving [for gay students].” Knight adds, “I doubt most of the recommendations [in the study] will be implemented. But, it is good that efforts towards improvement are being discussed. What would really help is attracting more gay and lesbian students to campus.”

The Self-Study says it is impossible to guess the number of students that are gay. The study can only estimate it is somewhere between 1% and 10% of the student population. Efforts to specifically recruit such students are not allowed due to federal discrimination laws the college follows. According to Dean Shandley, “The college can still try its hardest to create an environment accommodating and incorporating all and any individuals. The suggestions made in the self-study will lead us in the right direction.”

WRITE FOR NEWS. CALL CATHERINE, -2148