. RTS & LIVING MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1996

Looking into nature’s eyes
Readings awaken the animal within us
By Kristina Nevius
Guest Writer

After a stimulating Friday afternoon of seminars and discussion groups, the Forgotten Language Tour continued to work their magic as they read from selections of their works. Jan Deblieu, Alison Hawthorne Deming, and Richard Nelson captured the audience; they drew us into the world of nature and taught us the language they have learned. “The great blue heron, eye fired toward shore,/where we held our breath ...” and we held our breath waiting for Deming to conclude “‘Refuge”’ so that we might taste what it means to stare eye to eye with an animal and speak without words. The evening concluded with Nelson’s spellbinding lesson on the Koyakan people and their way of speaking the nature from which they learn.

Saturday evening, David Abrams continued the idea of visual communication. Will we lose our language if the nature around us disappears? Abrams says yes, because it is from nature that our language originates. When we come eye to eye with a great blue heron, for a moment entranced, we are changed; we have learned something that our whole body feels. And what we have learned is another way of speaking. Stafford spoke in the language of stories and hypnotized us with humor and eloquence. Rodgers, speaking through poetry, carried us into the land of love and birth — the world in all its pulsating, gyrating, panting wonder and awe. “The troubadours,” as they call themselves, chimed, spoke, and perhaps even tricked us into walking into the visual world of nature from which we left changed.

Glossy ibis, says the guide, setting her tripod on pavement, training the lens for the birdwatchers to fix the downward curved bill and spindly legs of the wader. I can't help but itch to get closer than this tailored birdwalk. Once I rode to low marshland with a friend. The horses mucking up to their knees, parting the brushy alders where there wasn't any trail. We gave them their heads, trusting their instincts to get to dry land. On the far side we rested, the woods glowing with rust and lemon. We sat. Reins dropped, the horses leaned to fidget the leaves. Wind thickened in the evergreens. Then the quiet cracked—wings that loud slapped the air—brittle legs arrowed through weeds to land not five feet away. The great blue heron, eye fired toward shore, where we held our breath. Even when we began to speak, edging slightly closer, she stayed. And something in her lack of fear, the fix of one black iris on us—horses, woman and man alike—kept us in our place.

FORGOTTEN LANGUAGE TOUR
Hikers explore in rapt attention
Walk through Raptor Center brings group in touch with hunters in feather and flesh
By Doug Cutting
Guest Writer

Saturday morning, a group of Davidson students and professors traveled with the Forgotten Language Tour writers to the Carolina Raptor Center and a Wetlands Refuge. The initial goal of the trip was to see some of the natural elements that need to be expressed, described, or protected with language and writing. I was enthralled by the Raptor Center, a facility which houses and rehabilitates injured birds of prey. Our tour weaved through a wooded trail and stopped to observe barred owls, red-tailed hawks, black vultures, kestrels, and numerous other winged hunters. Our guide emphasized the importance of the raptors in the food chain, a fact which is often overlooked by ignorant shooters and others in our uninformed society.

At the close of the tour, the students were interviewed briefly for an Orion Television documentary. We expressed appreciation for such facilities as the Raptor Center and the need to educate with these living examples of environmental problems and solutions. Our trip relocated to a wetland area in a National Wildlife Refuge near the Raptor Center. After a brief picnic, the area was explained by a local environmental educator, who provided nets, waders, and binoculars and encouraged us to explore. While the professors’ young children stuck with the elements and probed for tadpoles and salamanders, the authors, students, and camera crew conversed on a grassy road and discussed the meaning of the day’s events. What followed was an intriguing mixture of readings from the poems and books of the various writers and student input on environmental, economic, and life issues. We all walked out of the woods enlightened and thoroughly enriched, with new vocabularies and a desire to be taught more.

—Alison Hawthorne Deming courtesy of AudubonSociety ‘roughly refreshed: Bach into fashion! BachFest 1996 celebrates 50 years of the Bach Aria Group and a couple hundred of great organ music

By Liz Lockett
Music Critic

Davidson College, UNC Charlotte, Myers Park Presbyterian Church, and The North Carolina Arts Council sponsored Bach Fest 1996 this past week, a celebration solely devoted to commemorating the music and message of J.S. Bach. The festival featured the Bach Aria Group of New York, the only musical organization whose sole charter is to promote the performance and study of Bach’s music.

Friday night, March 29th, the Bach Aria Group along with our own voice professor, Diane Thorton, and tenor, Jeffrey Price, performed two Bach trios and excerpts from several Bach cantatas. The arias performed illustrate Bach’s word painting, canonic and contrapuntal style, and remarkable ability to musically interpret sacred and secular text.

A master class was conducted for Davidson and UNC-C music students. The class focused on performance style for vocalists and instrumentalists. Vocalists Abigail Showalter, John Patterson, David Santschi, Jessica Bigazzi, and Vidalia Scrivano performed with instrumentalists Mary Baxter, Laura Scheiffer, Jennifer Miller, Owen Collie, Emily Davis, Chris Jives, Jane Cain, and Bill Grant.

Finally, on March 31st, the Bach Aria Group was joined by the professional and student members of the Bach Fest Chamber Orchestra; soloists John Williams, Jeffrey Price, Diane Thorton, and Louise Toppin; and members of 17 area choruses, including Davidson College’s Chamber Singers, directed by Donna DiGrazia and orchestra members Owen Collie and Jonathan Pieslak. This concert featured the Brandenburg Concerto No. 4, Cantatas No. 9 and No. 94, and an organ prelude and postlude. The cantatas were performed in the style in which they would have been performed during the time of Bach. The chamber choir and instrumental ensemble were at the front of the church with the soloists. The other 300 members of the choral ensemble sat with the congregation and gave a spectacular sound for the final chorales of the two cantatas.

Bach Fest was an incredible celebration joining Davidson College with other local musicians and the outstanding Bach Aria Group to create an unforgettable listening and learning experience.

South Asian panel discusses religion and

By Saab Gul
Staff Writer

On the evening of Tuesday, April the 3rd, as a part of the ongoing Gala of festivities for South Asia week, a group of students held a forum to discuss contentious issues relating to South Asians and South Asians growing up in the US. Religion Professor William Mahoney, an expert on many of the area’s faiths and religious traditions, served as moderator along with junior Hiren Patel, one of the organizers. The discussion points included religion, and Hindus, Buddhists, Muslims, Christians, Jains, and even agnostics shared the vision of their faith as they practiced and understood it personally.

Sophomore Deepa Kamath also spoke on how South Asia’s long-standing tradition of religious tolerance is manifested today in the pacifist teachings of gurus. She also passed around medallions and a checklist of principles espoused by these proponents of tolerance. Sophomore Renu Bhatt explained the difficulties of practicing her faith in the environment of a 20th-century American lifestyle.

The most lively discussion, however, revolved around the issue of arranged marriages. Participants held a wide variety of views, ranging from vigorous opposition to fervent defense. Participants agreed, however, that the institution was greatly misunderstood in the West. Sophomore Damon Colbert wondered how the marriages worked and asked if they were held together by the threat of social ostracism in the event of a divorce. Panelists generally did not think that this was the case, though they conceded that divorce would carry a stronger stigma in South Asian society than it does in most modern Western societies.

Sophomore Jackie Rasulo asked about the existence and forms of dating in South Asia today. The reactions were mixed, ranging from low but increasing prevalence in some areas (India) to relatively insignificant in others (Pakistan). Sophomore Vijay Iyengar said that his dating had raised a few eyebrows from his first-generation immigrant family but brought no restrictions. Freshman Fahd Gul clarified that unlike the West, young people often did not see arranged marriages as stifling. Many actually see them as lending a greater element of freedom, leaving people with more time for pursuits other than finding their life-mate. Junior Hiren Patel, for instance, offered that he could go either way but would be very content with an arranged marriage. A small but enthusiastic group of students attended and generally enjoyed the event.