THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS.

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1996 5

Senior Michael Hart sequences DNA

By Jeffrey Coker
Science staff writer

While most students spent their summer trying to escape Davidson academia, Dr. Malcolm Campbell and senior Michael Hart were pushing it to new levels.

Their research with the algae Chlamydomonas reinhardtii marks the first time that DNA has been sequenced at Davidson College.

Davidson joins an exclusive group of small colleges including Grinnell, Carleton, and Williams which possess this technology.

Because so few colleges and universities are sequencing DNA in classes, Davidson students have a rare opportunity.

“Now we can do real research at the undergraduate level,” said Hart. “It’s a big step for the biology department and for the sciences in general.”

Another professor added, “A few years ago we would have been turning backflips in the hallway to have this technology. Now that it’s here [Campbell and Hart] are low key about the whole thing... but it’s still a big deal.”

Students in Dr. Campbell’s advanced molecular classes will now be able to sequence DNA themselves, though under close supervision. Campbell said cautiously that “we’re not quite ready to use it in the general classes. Sequencing is the only thing we can’t do non-radioactively, so it’s better to take it slow because of safety considerations.”

Dr. Campbell and others involved in the DNA project are working with Dr. Ginger Armbrust of the University of Washington-Seattle, who has sent DNA to Davidson to be duplicated and checked for the GA-1 locus.

This piece of DNA codes for a protein that is crucial for Chlamydomonas reproduction, but is not yet fully understood. Campbell was recently featured in The Journal of NIH Research, has spoken at a National Research Council meeting, and had a how-to article posted on the Internet by the American Society for Cell Biology.

Michael Hart plans to attend medical school, where he may continue research he has begun at Davidson.

“What a nice campus!” Davidson makes the funny page

By Kirsten Recknagel
News Editor

From front page headlines to extensive coverage in the sports section, news of Davidson College graces newspapers nationwide. But last spring the school entered uncharted territory: Davidson College appeared in the funnies.

Funnies fans first glimpsed Davidson in the well-known syndicated comic strip “Gasoline Alley.” Only two comic strips in the nation boast a continual run longer than “Gasoline Alley,” illustrated by cartoonist Jim Scancarelli of Charlotte.

Several months ago, Scancarelli introduced a new story line featuring the escapades of Rover, a young boy whose older sister Gretchen is a student at Davidson College.

In Davidson’s comic debut, Rover marvels at the campus while standing before Davidson’s most recognizable landmark: Chambers building.

Davidson attracted “Gasoline Alley” fame by chance when Scancarelli visited the school last December, camera in hand. At the time, Scancarelli intended to use only his photos of campus buildings as models for “Gasoline Alley’s” illustrations. However, as Scancarelli explained in the Davidson Journal this spring, “I started not to use [Davidson’s] name, then thought, ‘Why not?’ It’s the real thing.”

Write for news.

Get help with linear algebra.

Call Kirsten, 2148

CLASS 2000

CLASS OF A NEW MILLENNIUM

Top 10 Reasons to Buy Shirts from Steve

10) Shirts are 100% cotton.
9) Shirts by Steve are politically neutral.
8) The designs are cool and unique to Davidson.
7) You already go to the P.O.?
6) No package-deal-shad intimidating sales tactics (hassle-free wear!).
5) Great idea for the “rents.
4) If you’d like more unique designs, show your support.
3) Quality stuff here.
2) Shirts by Steve are unavailable anywhere else.
1) We fit your size, definitely. No more shirts with room for two.
0) All products are 100% spam-free.

Ordering instructions:
Send the completed order form and check to Stephen Faller. You will be notified when your order has been filled. Please allow 6 to 8 weeks for delivery. All orders must be prepaid. Orders without payment will be refused and returned, although this may be subject to change without notice.

FRONT - COLOR BACK - COLOR

NOT ACTUAL PICTURES NOT ACTUAL PICTURES

PRINCETON PRINCETON DAVIDSON DAVIDSON

FRONT-COLOR BACK-COLOR

REPRINT REPRINT 94-95

Name: Phone:
Address:
City/State/Zip:
Design: Size:
Total Cost: Send to: Stephen Faller
Shipping & handling included in price Apt. D
Subtract $10 if total is over $60 Durham, NC 27705