THE DAVIDSONIAN | SPORTS MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1996 15

The Sports Authority: Manassas of the NBA hardcourts, Bull run III
By Dave Mortlock
Sports Columnist

What makes the Chicago Bulls one of the most dominating basketball teams in history, the only team to ever win
over 70 games in an NBA season? First and foremost, Michael Jordan. Besides his 32 points a game and tenacious
defense, MJ also contributes an unparalleled competitive spirit. Back in the days, Jordan was the Bulls. He remains the undisputed
leader, but now, His Airness has a strong supporting cast with which to work.

Scottie Pippen, for one, has benefitted tremendously from this new team-oriented phenomenon. Pippen has always been equally proficient on offense
and defense, and he can run the point or post up. Yet, he has played under Jordan’s shadow throughout his
career. But that has all changed. The greatest thing Michael did to help Scottie along was to become a mediocre
Chicago White Sox farmhand as a much-ballyhooed member of the Birmingham Barons. During Jordan’s mid-life crisis, Scottie Pippen filled the
position of floor leader wonderfully and bloomed into one of the league’s top performers and a legitimate MVP candidate. Upon
Jordan’s return, Chicago was no longer “Michael and the Jordanaires.”

It is undoubtedly nice to have arguably today’s two best players, but the Bulls don’t stop there. They also boast
the best set of role players in the league. Toni Kukoc is a contender for the league’s best sixth man,
Dennis Rodman is going to grab yet another rebounding title, Steve Kerr shoots three-pointers better than Shaq shoots free throws,
and Luc Longley and Ron Harper are the perfect center and point guard for the Bulls.

Yet such great players don’t automatically rack up 72 wins. Coach Phil Jackson brings it all together. He is responsible
for the team chemistry, their confidence, and the record-setting number of victories. He has kept crazed Dennis Rodman relatively sedated,
and he has guided Toni Kukoc through his short and rocky NBA career. He knows when to take control and
when to relax and let his players do the work.

So with superstars, great supporting players, great coaching, and great team chemistry, it is no wonder that Da Bulls are
possibly the best squad to ever grace the NBA hardcourt.

Holland revisits past wrestling glory
By Carlo Reynolds
Staff Writer

Dr. Gill Holland, an English professor here at Davidson from 1961-63 and since 1967, started wrestling at Alexandria, Virginia’s Episcopal
High School because the school required participation in three sports and, as Holland says, “I wasn’t any good at basketball.”
The Virginia native played football in the Fall and tennis in the Spring. But wrestling became a lifelong interest. He
continued wrestling as an undergrad at Washington and Lee, discovering the sport’s real appeal in its strict training, rigid discipline,
and the quest to win the one-on-one physical and mental struggle with the opponent. Again, Holland found that wrestling helped
him meet the demands of his school’s curriculum. “In college it kept me out of trouble,” he says with a
smile.

Dr. Holland continued to wrestle in graduate school, working out regularly with the UNC-Chapel Hill varsity squad. According to Holland,
a Victorian and Chinese literature scholar who writes poems and short stories, wrestling is a metaphor for the long journey
the athlete travels toward achievement. “You can create value,” he says. Although he has not yet written creatively about wrestling,
sports have inspired some of Holland’s poetry. When the Davidson soccer team defeated Coastal Carolina on their way to the
NCAA Final Four in ‘92, he wrote a piece on the intense spirit of the athletes and the fans after
the upset victory. Said Holland, “the emotion at Davidson was incredible.”

During his thirty-one years at Davidson, Holland has witnessed changes in spectator interest. “Support for wrestling was much greater in
the past,” he said, but he still marvels at the changes in the sport itself. “Wrestling is a faster sport
now. The athletes are smarter and better.” He believes that wrestling at Davidson is currently in a state of positive
growth, citing new wrestling scholarships made possible by a recent gift from Lowell Bryan, an alumnus and former wrestler. Holland
attends home meets and travels to the annual W&L tournament, following athletes as they mature over their four years at
Davidson and beyond.Taking photographs, a favorite hobby. Getting involved with the matches and the individuals lets him see the sport
in new frames of reference. “I have a lot of nostalgia connected to wrestling,” Holland says. He parallels his interest
in wrestling with traveling’s allure. "Revisiting a special season or sport is a little like revisiting favorite walking tours,” he
says. “In a sense, one can create value with each return to a place or match. They seem more and
more precious with each visit.” Ours has made those and discombobulate their reins.

~Gill Holland

An Old Soccer Prophet Wakes up in Mecklenburg Red Clay, Fall 1992

The game has begun. Our kicks are smart, even artistic, thunderous. The enemy rolls about caught in the net like
vicious squirrels. Pindar, where are you to celebrate this leap and pass? These are the truly pointy heads and toes.
The enemy opposite, may their keeper suffer the fate of no divine saves. May their kickers score own goals. May
their tricks be ours. May our defenders deny them salvation unless they cry uncle. When we close in, may their
keeper enjoy a digestion of scores in the mouth and arms. May our attackers uncork a cannonball into their net.
May our red clay stick to their shoes.

Crew team strokes to finals in D.C. regatta
By JOSH PEKLO
Staff Writer

The crew team brought its inaugural season to a close Saturday with two trips to the finals of the Capitol
Classic Regatta in Washington D.C. As parents, students, and alumni cheered from the banks of the Potomac River, Davidson’s fours
rowed their best races to date in the men’s and women’s varsity four events.

“We’ve come a long way this season,” said student coach Jay Hinton. “Had we stuck with the novice races we
probably would have brought home medals, but we proved we could compete at a higher level. Our performance in the
varsity events is bigger than any victory I could have hoped for this season.”

When the Wildcats left town Friday, the crew planned to compete at the novice level. But, Hinton decided to take
advantage of empty slots in the more competitive varsity events. Returning from a meeting, he announced Davidson’s varsity placement to
a surprised team.

“When Jay told us about the switch (to varsity) I was shocked and confused. At Clemson we raced as novices
and came in second to last,” said Catherine O’Dell. “At the time, I thought it was a risky move, but
I knew both crews had improved since Clemson,” said Hinton. “I hoped that the higher placement would push our boats
to their limits.”

The women’s four raced first against Franklin & Marshall and Trinity. “Jay assured us that we could stick with the
other crew, but I think we all had our doubts at the start line,” said coxswain Ellen Rockwell. Franklin &
Marshall took an early lead, leaving Davidson and Trinity to battle for second place. The Wildcats kept up the pressure
over the 2000 meter course outrowing Trinity and earning a spot in the finals.

The men lined up next with University of Scranton and College of Charleston filling the remainder of the field. Although
Scranton’s smooth start developed into a five-boat-length win, the Wildcats pushed past Charleston yielding another second place finish and a
chance to row in the finals.

“When we pulled up to the dock we thought Scranton’s lead had certainly ended our season. Then, Jay told us
to rest up for the finals,” said John Hong. “I couldn’t believe it.”

Both crews rounded out the day with fourth place finishes in the four boat final events. The women were clocked
in 8:54.62 compared to their 10:41.3 finish at Clemson. The men crossed the 2000 meter mark in 7:46.24, a two-minute
improvement over their 9:48.9 Clemson finish.

“This was the club’s second race ever. Seeing teams like Pittsburgh and Miami arriving for Sunday’s Big East Regatta made
it all worth it. Their programs showed us what Davidson has to look forward to with the club’s growth,” said
Doug Penhallegon.

HAVE A GOOD SUMMER — BUT BEFORE YOU GO, PLEASE REMEMBER TO RETURN YOUR LIBRARY BOOKS!! ALL LIBRARY BOOKS ARE
DUE MAY 15TH. REMEMBER TO RETURN THEM BEFORE YOU LEAVE.
