ALENDA
Che
David
LU x: UB ORTA LIBERTAS
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1996
VOLUME 88, NUMBER 13

Project Life types 363 more people
By JENNIFER STARR
Staff Writer

Three hundred and sixty-three members of the Davidson community had their bone marrow typed during Project Life’s seventh annual drive
held last week. According to Project Life Co-Chair Liz Abernathy, this year’s drive was the second most successful in the
group’s history. In addition, the drive was observed by a student from UNC-Chapel Hill and an employee of First Union
who are both interested in starting a similar drive. Over 2,000 people have been typed through Project Life’s annual drive,
and seven of these people have become bone marrow donors. Project Life planned a prize-drawing for all freshman halls with
100% participation. At press time, no freshmen halls had full participation.

Many of those involved in the drive feel a personal commitment to the cause. Scottie Lindsay was motivated to join
the bone marrow department of the Red Cross because of her family’s experiences. Her son David, now a Davidson graduate,
had leukemia and required a bone marrow transplant from his sister. His experience inspired students to start Project Life, which
his sister Sara headed last year. She believes the drive was a success. "It’s overwhelming ... Everyone here seems to
want to be here. The committee seems to have done a good job of educating people,” she says.

Those being typed seemed to share the enthusiasm. “I feel good. I can’t think of an easier way to do
an incredibly important thing. Watching the McCarthy-Roberts family’s experience encouraged me to [be typed],” says Gardner Roller Ligo, Merit Scholarship
Coordinator.

Cornelius brewery to open
Exits 25 and 28 offer many more options
By GREG GARRISON
Staff Writer

Along with the recent additions of Chili’s and Fuddruckers at Exit 25, Lake Norman Brewing Company, a combination brewery, restaurant,
and pub in Cornelius, will tentatively open for dinner in mid-December. After its grand opening ceremony in January, lunch will
also be served there. The bar is the brainchild of Ray Renshaw, an airline pilot who decided that a brewpub
is just what Lake Norman needs. “We started work on it a couple of years ago,” says Renshaw. “I had
an idea, so I got together with some friends and their families, and we’ve all been working on it together
since.”

Joe Baltos, one of LNBC’s investors, says, “I’m confident that we’ll have some really great beer on tap.” Customers will
be able to take a look at the brewing process; the beer will be brewed on site, in an apparatus
that fills a glass-walled room. Then it will be pumped into a refrigerated room, where it will be stored and
then sent through pipes to the taps at the bar. Initially, LNBC will make five different ales, and the brewmaster,
Dana MacGregor Fischer, says that they will add more to their brew menu soon after opening. He hopes to have
a stout by late January or early February, and eventually they may produce a lager, as well as seasonal brews.
Fischer, who earned an undergraduate degree in philosophy,

See Brewing on page 2

JANE GOODALL

“I’ve loved animals since birth,” Goodall responded. “All I ever read was books about animals. By the time I was
nine I was in love with Tarzan and extremely jealous of Jane.”

...ministration and faculty members at the Guest House following the book signing. Goodall sat in a small circle of students
for over an hour discussing the...environment, society, and religion. Goodall counseled Trey Adams, president of the Bio Society, on how
to start a Roots and Shoots program at Davidson. Roots and Shoots is a network of school groups throughout the
world that stresses care for the environment, animals, and human welfare. Goodall advised, “Start it in a group you know.
It’s also good to spread the effort into the arts such as plays and music. That’s a great way to
involve everyone in the education and have fun doing it.” Adams later commented, “She was set on being non-exclusive. She
doesn’t want to exclude any group from getting involved in conservation efforts.”

By JEFFREY COKER
Staff Writer

The students who were able to talk to Jane Goodall on a personal level will not soon forget it. Perhaps
the luckiest were those few who gathered with advisor Verna Case’s Animal Behavior class Wednesday morning. The names on her
sweatshirt are the names of chimpanzees she has studied.

Freshman Julie Chevalier asked Goodall about feminism, to which she replied with a story ending with an analogy of the
eagle of the Native Americans. “The man is one wing and woman is the other. Both must be of equal
strength.”

See Goodall on page 6

SGA hopes that off-campus businesses will accept cat cards

Burk hopes that despite problems students will be able to charge at local restaurants next semester

By ALEX OBREGON
Staff Writer

This idea of instituting cat cards off-campus has been in the works since the first semester of last year, and
the SGA, in conjunction with Auxiliary Services, has been at work this year drawing up a contract for the businesses.
The program is aimed at establishments commonly used by the student body, such as Harris Teeter and several pizzerias. Junior
Buster Burk, Co-Chairman of the Student Advisory Council to the Director of Auxiliary Services says, “Oh the places you’ll go
with the cat card... hopefully, next semester.”

Most recently, the council has been working out problems with the technology involved in the project. The company ISDN Technology
will make it easier and cheaper for businesses to connect to the cat card accounts using swipe machines like the
ones currently used on campus. Problems that have arisen involve deliveries, such as pizza deliveries, because they would require students
to give drivers their social security or college identification number since swipe machines could not be installed in delivery vehicles.
Those involved say the program’s goal is to extend cat card use off-campus without hurting the use of on-campus facilities
like Vail Commons, the Union Cafe, and the Outpost.

Freshman Becca Niemitz says of the project, “It would be very useful so we wouldn’t have to carry cash all
the time.”

The SGA will be conducting a poll of the student body to determine the top five off-campus businesses most frequently
used by Davidson students. Although the council is still working out technicalities, a pilot program is set to begin next
semester.

NEWS BRIEFS................. 2
ELSEWHERE................. 6
CROSSWORD................. 6
EDITORIAL..................... 7
OPINIONS....................... 9
ARTS & LIVING............. 10
HOROSCOPE................. 13
SPORTS......................... 14

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit No. 1
Davidson, NC 28036
