THE DAVIDSONIAN — TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1996

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
MARY CLARE JALONICK

Arts & Living Editor
EMILY SIMMONS

Cartoonist
GREG GARRISON

Assoc. Arts & Living Editor
SUSAN RUGGIERO

Business Manager
CAROLINE BYNUM

Associate Editor
TERESA WHITE

Sports Editors
WILL BRADSHAW
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL

Advertising Managers
BETH BACON
MEREDITH LUCIUS

News Editor
MICHAEL KRUSE

Associate News Editor
RANDY HARTWELL

Photo Editor
BEN DeLISA

Circulation Manager
McNEIL CARSWELL

Opinions Editors
NINA BLOUNT
CLAY LENHART

Copy Editors
CARRIE BLACKBURN
KRISTEN RICHARDSON
JILL WILLIAMS

Web Page Managers
BRAD CHASE
DANIEL MOTZ

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

THEY'RE WILD. THEY'RE COOL. THEY'RE AS LENHER. THEY'RE i, AND THEY'RE HOW EE IR SUSE LE EVEN ME WH-B HEPCATS,
Y TE HIT A MAN

LETTERS

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at: http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Library e-mail?

To the Editors:

The other day I ventured

Go, go Gadget

When an institution prides itself on its adherence to old-school ways, making changes, whether to the alcohol policy or to
the alternative bar, is hard. When changes finally are made, those who push them deserve a close look and, in
the case of the Computer Services Center, a pat on the back.

The Computer Services Center has renamed itself Information Technology Services in order to reflect the range of alterations made during
the summer. Although the combination of glare from the computer screens and glare from the stark walls threaten eyesight and
sanity, the new Belk computer lab is more open, better smelling, and generally better arranged than the Main Street lab
it replaced. More impressive than this relocation, however, is the extent to which the ITS sought and actually listened to
student needs and concerns.

Even at Davidson, with its oh-so-impressive 16 to 1 student to professor ratio, students often feel neglected, like the administration
works for trustees and big donors rather than for students themselves. When we filled out the comprehensive survey at the
end of last semester, few of us expected such immediate results, few of us realized that quick change was possible
anymore. Both software and hardware upgrades, web pages available, changes to Pollux and networking of sophomore dorms were all done
in the time it normally takes an SGA committee to be formed to talk about changes to a clause in
the formation of an SGA sub-committee. Thanks to the ITS for truly listening and acting on student requests. Congrats to
them on doing it so well. Keep listening,

PCC

There were two parties on the court this weekend. One at Connor, where students over 21 took the third degree
and went through a series of steps to get a beer that they had earlier purchased. And one at Rusk,
where students over 21 flashed an ID and hung out in the basement.

Not only is the BYOB process painfully restrictive, it is more expensive, exclusive, and potentially very dangerous. Many people have
worked hard to do what is best for Patterson Court, and they know what they are doing. They are correct
to worry about liability — it is an important issue. They have heard the arguments so many times that they
probably do not want to even attend another party, but let us reiterate once more:

1. Parties do not have to be centered around drinking, but beer will bring crowds. Under a BYOB policy, Patterson
Court will become exclusively a freshmen hangout — those over 21 can buy beer and drink in their rooms or
off campus, where they don’t have to register a six-pack.2. If people do buy beer and come to Patterson Court,
then they will be driving to get it. Many drink before they go down to the court — so drunk
driving will increase. People will also be driving to and from off-campus parties. This is already happening every weekend.

3. If the policy states that the house can only buy beer for members, then most of the people at
each party will be members. Davidson will then have an exclusive court scene.

4. Students who bring beer will bring a lot, just in case. Then they will drink it all to avoid
wasting money or having to carry it. Few people will bring just one beer.

5. Few independents will pay $10 to occasionally visit the court with beer that they have already bought themselves. The
solutions are not easy ones, and upperclassmen will most definitely have to adjust to a new way on Patterson Court.
But unity and safety and a casual social scene are important — not because students need to get wasted but
because Davidson, North Carolina is a small place and Davidson students need a central place to have fun. This may
seem petty to some, but it isn’t. These are not excuses, but truths. Please keep listening.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address all
correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located
on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to The Davidsonian cost $35.00 per
year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College. The editors or commentaries
do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board.

I went into the library to do the same thing everybody else goes to the library to do — check
my e-mail. When I saw the brand new computers, I got even more excited! Even more stunning, every single one
of the terminals was vacant. As I eased into the nearest stool, I began to panic; the access to Pollux
was nowhere to be found. I glanced behind me and I sensed a snicker from the librarian — she had
seen this before. I retreated from my seat, bewildered, to ask a librarian what was going on. “Silly boy,” she
replied, “you can check e-mail back there,” pointing towards the far corner of the library. Was I consulted about the
change? Disgusted, I moped to the back, only to find that all the computers were taken. So now what? Do
I go to the computer center? It just wouldn’t be the same.

Sincerely,
Britton Taylor, ‘98

To our readers:
Today is Monday, September 2. It is Labor Day today. Most people take Labor Day as a chance not to
labor. Example one: This is why The Davidsonian regrettably is coming to you a day late. But even with an
extra day, there were not enough letters to the editor to fill up this space. People whine a lot about
Davidson’s apathy and homogeneity. No wonder, when we have only received two letters this year. Show your passion. Show your
individuality.

Sincerely,
The Davidsonian Editorial Board

Buy yourself a treat. No, not at the Union Café but in The Davidsonian office. Get yourself a trendy T-shirt
for $10. Ask your local editor for details. By the way, if someone else had written a letter to the
editor then these shameless space-fillers would not be here. Go stand for something and write us a letter.
