-- © MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1996 ~ The Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
SUSAN RUGGIERO
GREG GARRI
MARY CLARE JALONICK

Assoc. Arts & Living Editor
JILL WILLIAMS

Business Manager
CAROL YNUM

Associate Editor
TERESA WHITE

Sports Editors
WILL BRADSHAW
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL

Advertising Managers
BETH BACON
MICHAEL KRUSE

MEREDITH LUCIUS

Associate News Editor
RANDY HARTWELL

Photo Editor
BEN DeLISA

Circulation Manager
McNEIL CARSWELL

Opinions Editors
NINA BLOUNT
CARRIE BLACKBURN

Copy Editors
CLAY LENHART
KRISTEN RICHARDSON

Web Page Managers
JILL WILLIAMS
BRAD CHASE
DANIEL MOTZ
ERIC PENDERGRASS

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at: http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Pubs and Professors

People mourned the closing of Back Street for more than the loss of convenient draft beer. It was one of the few places left where students and professors still gathered together as equals, outside classroom and office walls. Thirty years ago, when the county was dry and Cornelius offered the closest oasis, they had regular after vespers’ gatherings at professors’ houses. The professors took a bunch of college kids into their homes, providing the students an opportunity to learn from instructors and their families in an informal setting. Talk to alumni at Homecoming; they remember these student gatherings, professors, and professors' families, and of course, home-cooked goodies.

Now, these close student/professor relationships are rare, and if they exist at all, they are restricted to limited office hours. Maybe the lack of these unique friendships stems from fear — fear of everything from lawsuits to peer pressure. Grades also become an issue. Often professors seem monolithic in a student’s eyes, towers of knowledge peering down with a judgmental gaze. But they were students at one time, and they became professors because they have an intense love for learning, a love that is far from lost. We spend so much time fearing the power of professors and trying to impress them that we forget that they are human, that they may care about more than our academic lives, and may have more to teach than their academic fields. Getting personal is hard, but fear (or plain laziness) should not destroy communication and potential learning.

The passing of James Swisher provoked one student to write about her special relationship with him, and there were probably many more who felt the same way. Most of our educators are likely similar to Swisher — touched when students open up to them, interested in knowing about more than our writing ability or logical thinking skills. We are lucky to attend a school where student/professor relationships are a goal that we strive toward. We are also lucky that the school is giving us a chance to develop them outside of fluorescent-light professionalism. This Friday the 900 Room opens with an open invitation to students of all ages. Hopefully many will take advantage of this opportunity to relax and interact on campus — it is rare that we have such a chance to really get to know each other.

To the editors:

A little over a week ago, I went to get my car from the Johnston Gym parking lot, and I found another car in the space where mine had been. Frantic, and somewhat puzzled since I couldn’t imagine anyone actually wanting to steal my car, I proceeded to the Davidson College Police Office and found the door locked. Hoping that someone inside could hear me, I knocked on the door several times. Eventually, I resorted to pressing the RED button on the emergency phone, and then I waited... One ring... Two rings... Three rings... finally the phone picked up, and I heard none other than the voice mail system for 911. Somewhat shocked, I left a message saying “My car’s missing, could you call me back.” I did eventually find a cop, but I had to chase him down across campus. Somehow this whole incident didn’t strengthen my faith in the D.C. Police Department. Had something actually been wrong, such as a nice head wound, would I have bled to death waiting?On the cops to call me back? Exactly how often do the cops check the mailbox for 911? Why is there a voicemail system for 911 in the first place? Just be careful next time you have an emergency and try to use the boxes across campus, and leave a message at the beep.

Brent Gilbert, '99

ROTC opportunity still open...

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian; P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editors:

The September 2nd Davidsonian article announcing the US Army’s decision to shut down Davidson’s ROTC program was certainly disheartening news, but the Army’s decision does not finalize the situation. The article was accurate in reporting that Davidson was one of 30 schools that were targeted to be shut down, but that is the worst-case scenario. There are a number of viable options for the program. The most prominent option involves the recent bill that South Carolina senator Strom Thurmond has proposed. That bill dictates that “the secretary of the Army may not reorganize or restructure ROTC Cadet Command or terminate any senior ROTC units” slated for closure May 20th, 1996 until 180 days after the date on which the secretary submits a report explaining his rationale for closing the specified program.

The Davidson ROTC department has a long and distinguished tradition of producing fine military officers. Davidson ROTC graduates include 32 generals and numerous senior officers, including Dean Rusk. More importantly, the program has performed exceptionally well in recent years, receiving recognition as the most improved program in the region in 1995. Davidson cadets have posted near-perfect scores the last two years at ROTC Camp All American, including two regimental honor graduates, an honor given to only 13 cadets in the country. Considering these factors, the Secretary of the Army would have a difficult time justifying his decision to shut down the program.

There are also other options for the program. Regardless of the Army’s final decision, it is not likely that ROTC will disappear from Davidson entirely. Lieutenant Colonel Colcord and the other Davidson cadre members are working on a program that would involve leaving some cadre members on campus, and having Davidson be a satellite program to UNCC. Under this system, Davidson cadets would remain on campus and receive the same high-quality training as they are currently receiving.

The Davidson ROTC program has excelled in the past and will continue to excel in the future. I was motivated to write this article because I feel so strongly that the ROTC program comprises such an integral part of our school and offers Davidson students a tremendous and unequaled educational opportunity. Besides the financial benefits, military training helps develop managerial, leadership, and organizational skills. Furthermore, it has taught me the importance of teamwork, discipline, and dedication. My experiences in ROTC have instilled confidence in myself that I will be able to apply to any field I may pursue in the future. I don’t think I could have received those kinds of benefits from any normal Davidson class. Military service serves as an excellent platform to any profession, and especially offers educational and training benefits to students wishing to pursue medical and legal careers. For these reasons, the Davidson ROTC program must continue to thrive. Sophomores and freshmen that are interested in becoming involved in ROTC still have the opportunity to become fully enrolled in the program and apply for scholarship benefits. I would encourage anyone who is interested to stop by the ROTC department or call myself at #6721.

Matthew Eckert ’97