Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1

Seth Blachman aims to break America’s drug habit

TF | ANN CULP News Editor

Morris Blachman, Assistant Dean of Continuing Medical Education at the University of South Carolina, spoke on “America’s Addictive Policy in
The Drug War: Breaking the Habit” on Thursday in the 900 Room. He was hosted by the Dean Rusk Program.

Blachman is the co-author of Drug War Politics: Price of Denial. In his book, he examines why America’s war on
drugs will never work, why it persists as a failure, and possible alternatives to its battle tactics.

“The basic approach we have had is going after [drug] supply. The idea is to keep [drugs] from getting into
the country. If [drugs do] get into the country, then we take a punitive approach,” says Blachman.

Problems occur in two areas, according to Blachman. They are what he terms the “profit paradox” and the “hydro effect.”
He says, “The very process of making drugs [specifically marijuana, heroin, and cocaine] illegal also generates a profit. We make
it enticing for people to be in the business. This is called the ‘profit paradox.’”

Blachman outlined the life of one kilo of cocaine to describe the “hydro effect.” The coca leaves needed to make
cocaine can be picked in Bolivia or Peru for $1200-1500. They are processed and sold at a profit to someone
who brings it to the United States. Now the value of the cocaine is at $20-30,000. By the time it
is sold in Detroit or Davidson, it costs $250-300,000.

“If you think of this as a business, understand it as a good, solid, wide-open capitalist enterprise,” says Blachman. “Do
you stop because the U.S. government is interdicting some of it? Anybody can get into this business and the amount
of money that you can get into one briefcase is such that a lot of people do it. So many
people do it that there is no way to control it.”

Blachman believes that drug problems exist because the “profit paradox” makes buying and selling drugs too profitable and the “hydro
effect” makes too many people involved. Yet, there is no solution in more resources, better or more coordination by officials,
or more emphasis on the war on drugs, according to Blachman.

Moving in the direction where funding is going to be available is very good for agencies, he says. “There are
currently 43 U.S. government agencies who are trying to find their way into the drug war,” he says. Blachman calls
this problem the Narco Enforcement Complex, or NEC. Without an overarching evaluator, Blachman says, each agency is responsible to its
own mission. To receive funding, it must prove that the drug war is still there and that the agency should
still be involved in the process. No one in Congress would stand up against this bureaucratic process for fear of
appearing “soft on drugs.” With 74 different committees to deal with the drug war, every Congressperson has his or her
claim in.the war on drugs, however inefficient. The President can always pick up the drug war as a high-profile battle.
“Around 1900, you could turn to your Sears Roebuck catalog and order morphine. You could go to your neighborhood store
and buy medicine with cocaine in it. Many people used these drugs and had normal jobs, families, etc. Then a
concern developed about addiction. There was a belief that Chinese brought opium, Africans cocaine, Mexicans marijuana which all resulted in
the corruption of America. The thought was ‘If those people don’t provide it, then we won’t have a problem. It’s
a supply problem and not a demand problem,’” says Blachman. Through ideas propagated by organizations such as the Federal Bureau
of Narcotics (FBN), drugs and crime were interlinked. A movie was created by the FBN called “Reefer Madness” which said
that people who smoke marijuana go crazy immediately. “By the time we got to the 50s, not only had we
made drugs punitive, but we began to raise prison terms and make mandatory sentencing,” says Blachman. “Because we have overcrowded
jails, we release people with armed robbery to make room for someone caught with two joints.”

In the United States alone, 12.5 million people admitted that they have used heroin, marijuana, or cocaine in the last
month, 20-30 million used one or more in the last year, and 2.5 million people are fully addicted to one
or more of these drugs. Yet, when one goes to a public facility for treatment, a person is immediately stamped
a criminal. A pregnant woman can have her child taken away and go to jail for drug use while pregnant,
thus many women continue their habit in private without seeking help and produce addicted children. “Reduce harm, reduce usage is
incompatible with the paradigm we’re talking about now. This is not a winnable strategy,” says Blachman. He proposes a strategy
where needle exchanges are encouraged and reduced usage in levels is encouraged as opposed to the zero-tolerance drug policy now.
“This is a political struggle and an issue of power,” says Blachman. “It takes that struggle to remove the paradigm.”

FEBRUARY 28 - MARCH 2
GREENSBORO COLISEUM
Men: 14-9, 7-4 in Southern Conference

Talk with President John Kuykendall ‘59, Athletics Director Jim Murphy
Saturday, March 1, 5:00 p.m. in the Suite

Come out and Support the Cats!
TICKETS: 1-800-768-CATS

All Friday and Saturday men’s games will be televised live on Fox Sports South; Sunday men’s championship game will be
shown on ESPN at 4:00 p.m. Women’s Saturday 11:30 a.m. game and the Sunday 1:00 p.m. game will be tape
delayed on Fox Sports South.

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE BASKETBALL MEN’S AND WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIPS
Women: 13-8, 5-5 in Southern Conference

Hospitality Suite Open Before Davidson Games, At Halftime, and After Davidson Games*
*Light snacks & drinks available in the Suite -- Dinner foods available nearby at Sidecourt
