7 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1997

Op-Ed

The Davidsonian

WELCOME BACK! FROM THE OUTPOST II

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editors
CHLOE BROOKE
JESSICA GOODSON

Opinions Editors
NARESH NAGELLA
DAVID SANTSCHI

Sports Editor
JAY CANTRELL

Copy Editors
WHITNEY BLAKE
ANNA ERIKSSON
LYNSAY MADLEY

Photo Editor
ANNA JUDY

Editor in Chief
MICHAEL J. KRUSE

Arts & Living Editor
KRISTEN BARTCH
CARRIE MORRIS

Layout Editors
CINDY CLARK
RANDALL SKATTUM

Circulation Managers
McNEIL CARSWELL

Web Page Managers
HENDI FINK

Associate Editor
MATTHEW EIRICH

Advertising Manager
AUSTIN DEAN

Business Manager
CHLOE BROOKE

Founded in 1914:
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Say something. Do something.

A former professor writes to the Davidsonian and accuses the College of, among other things, “cultivating mediocrity and demanding conformity.”

And there is no response. None whatsoever. No letters to the editor. No opinions pieces. No nothing.

David Coppola, a professor in the Biology Department until two years ago, was snubbed — at least in his opinion,
that’s the way it happened — by Davidson’s tenure process.

And, in last week’s single letter to the editor, he exacted what he thought was a bit of revenge. In
a piece of writing he said was also being distributed to the nation’s top 100 biology graduate programs, Coppola attacked
the school and all it stands for.

“Due process and academic freedom do not exist at Davidson,” he wrote.

Some more of Coppola’s bitter tidbits read as follows:

“Davidson is an institution that espouses a strong Christian ethic and yet treats its well-intentioned employees, like myself, in a
dastardly fashion, denying them even a simple verbal explanation if they are dismissed because they legally can get away with
it.”

“You can expect despicable treatment from tenured colleagues and administrators alike including verbal abuse and psychological harassment. Nor does the
faculty have any real power (or will) to change matters, since a few influential (rich) trustees control the institution by
fiat.”

“Promotion decisions are notoriously arbitrary, or actually counter-productive, given that obsequiousness is more highly regarded than achievement!”

“In short, Davidson is probably the last place one would want to seek professional excellence in teaching or research, though
their posturing and propaganda to the contrary can fool you for a while.”

Students, stand up for your institution. Faculty and staff, prove David Coppola wrong. Or is he wrong?

Why students here — and seemingly everybody else, for that matter — are so utterly lifeless when it comes to
anything but school and business is debatable. But whatever the reason, something must be done to remedy the situation.

Because if this school continues into such a downward spiral of apathy, Coppola’s statements might indeed be confirmed, rather than
dismissed as worthless drivel.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per
student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or 12149.
Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the
editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $40 per
year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.
