Stand alone with friends or one person who is reading this article. You’ve all been bombarded by too many “beginning of college freshman experience” (read without a pause for full effect) articles. Freshmen are tired of hearing about how scary or wonderful everything is, and upperclassmen would like to begin moving on with the rest of their semester, thank you very much. Indulge me for a few moments by reading, not about what college will be like, but about what it won’t be like. You’ve left home and come, or come back, to Davidson. That isn’t earthshaking, but what is, is that the home you left and the home you will return to are not the same places. How many times have you heard a relative who has not seen you for a long time remark how much you have changed? Absence accelerates and illuminates change. You can carry the place that home was in your heart, but if you try to go back and refill your memories with its waters, you will find that the spring has dried up and moved. You cannot anchor yourself in the memories of the past. To survive you must anchor yourself within yourself.

Standing on the comforting, but slightly stifling, fog of the past is only slightly less difficult than carving a step in the liquid future. You are in the present. You must stand on the present; it is all that you can see. To stand in the present, however, you need to use your own feet. Without yourself, you are lost. College is not a time to depend more heavily upon others. It is a time to realize the strength that you carry within yourself and use it. Having said that, isolation is not a viable alternative. You cannot stand alone forever. All of the great monuments of humanity are testaments to this. To endure, you must have the internal strength to stand on your own. While developing yourself, you must learn to find friends. Friends, true friends, are those people who, if their faces weren’t different from yours, they would be you. They know you better than you know yourself. Because of these stringent qualifications, most people are extremely fortunate if they find two such people in a lifetime. The rest of us should be so lucky as to have one. The rest of the people whom you meet in life are transients, temporary props who support you and are supported by you for short amounts of time. Most of the people that you’ll meet you will never know into which category they fell until long afterwards. Don’t ever judge someone too quickly—they may be your best friend waiting to be discovered. Some of this article was boring, and maybe some of it was funny, but you made it, and perhaps you’re a little wiser for the trip. Who says college or life is any more than this?

The cruelty here’s just something about an empty post office box that makes you want to cry. The solitude and desolation of that empty slot, walls punctuated by the light of the mail room behind it, can tarnish a perfectly quaint afternoon. It is the pinnacle of both human expectation and mortal devastation. After two weeks of slow mail, I have reached several conclusions about the societal iniquities of post offices, so let me share. First of all, the march to the post office is utterly ridiculous. It must take at least five minutes to reach the post office from most student dormitories. This is college; we don’t have time to walk that far just to look into a dirty old post office box only to find that we have once again been forgotten by all that we hold dear to our hearts. With this in mind, I see only one plausible course of action: the Vamanos Van.

Secondly, I have found that many students, often of the feminine persuasion, feel the need to be accompanied to the post office. I don’t know if this concept is somehow psychologically attuned to pairing-off for bathroom trips, but I just don’t understand it. Granted, after watching the eye-opening safety video during orientation, it just might be a good idea to request a police escort. Which brings us to point number three: while I have come to appreciate and respect the courtesy of Davidson motorists, I am at this point not confident enough to throw myself in front of oncoming traffic and hope that the approaching vehicles will stop. Though I have watched many of my colleagues successfully achieve this feat, I just don’t think I’m ready. Thus, I am resolved to stand on the sidewalk, edging onto the pavement ever-so-slowly, turning my head back and forth, right and left, as though plagued with paranoia. Again, my suggestion, the Vamanos Van.

Finally, and most important, the crowd scene of mail hour at the post office opens one up to public humiliation. This type of social embarrassment is known as “the musical chair syndrome.” Let me explain. I refuse to play musical chairs. It is demeaning and humiliating. Here I was at a fellow five-year-old’s birthday party, listening to some seriously rockin’ music like “Old McDonald,” when all of a sudden this kid’s mom decided to turn it off and everyone jumped into a chair! And where was I? Standing in the middle looking dazed and confused. Such childhood memories can mark an individual with...a lacking self-concept, and such is the scene at the post office. To save myself from further embarrassment, I have developed a simple method. First, before opening the box, peek through the airholes to check for any shadowing. If this does not prove helpful, and you happen to have keen olfactory senses, it is possible to sniff for envelope glue, though it may later prove harmful. Finally, remember to leave through the side door if you’ve had an unsuccessful day. This keeps you from facing the long line of package-receivers in the main office. If none of this helps, try visiting at midnight. So as the days roll by and the mailbox scene oscillates, remember these few helpful tips and keep the faith. For mailbox love is like all other true passion: though it comes only once in a lifetime, it feels damn good while it lasts.

MAKE OUR DAY.
1. Have an opinion.
2. Write about it.
Call David (x6731) or Kristen (x6640).

Now we have completed the first two weeks of school. Many of us are pulling out our Day-Planners, adding new commitments like my grandfather added salt to his beef.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1997

Salting your beef

“...Davidson emphasizes those studies, disciplines and activities that are mentally, spiritually and physically liberating.” But we seem to be in such a rush to fulfill these unwritten requirements that instead of liberation, we feel a sense of enslavement—to our Day-Planners. Do we even have time to fit tomorrow into our schedules? College has turned into a time of caffeine addiction and bragging about how few hours of sleep one got the night before, the number of “commitments” one has instead of a reflective time to see where we have been thus far and where we want to go.

I have returned from an inspiring summer, and I have many thoughts and ideas that I want to put into action. I imagine that many of us here have that kind of enthusiasm. Everyone seems to have a growing list of priorities. I remember filling out college applications in which I had to categorize all of the activities I did. This induces a mentality that there are certain “things” that everyone needs to do to become the ideal Davidson student. Davidson’s statement of purpose...

The concept of diminishing returns is so relevant to time management. The more we do, the less we get out of these activities. Whenever I say no to something, I wonder what opportunities I am missing out on. How could I have grown from this experience that I am now denying myself?

Other areas of the world understand time differently. This summer in Paraguay, I felt like I wasn’t using my talents when I just sat around. But I had time to think; I had time to be myself and nothing more. The Protestant work ethic has taken our society down the road of progress, but often led us away from the road to happiness.

So I encourage you to get out while you can. Do the things you really want to do, and do them well. As the hackneyed cliché states: “Don’t miss the forest for the trees.”

Coed living ain’t half bad

In an effort to inspire friendly hall rivalries, the women of First West Belk (1WB) are addressing this letter to all the other female freshmen at Davidson College. We are genuinely happy for Cannon since they have “Joe Freshman” living with them, but we can’t help but wonder how they would feel about Joe Freshman if he were living with them. As for 1WB, we have no complaints. After all, how can we argue with seeing the poetic First East Belk in their towels day and night?

First, we’d like to dispel the notion that single-sex dorms are superior to coed dorms. Coed dorms offer students the opportunity to socialize without pressure. After one grows accustomed to living with men, she realizes that there is a certain element of friendship between them. For example, the members of 1WB and First East Belk (1EB) have formed a unique relationship which no member of a single-sex dorm could possibly understand without experiencing it. There isn’t a night that goes by when the men and women of First Belk can’t be found talking, laughing, watching T.V., or even studying together. First Belk represents friendship and unity between the sexes which is essential to the “freshman experience.”

With this in mind, we encourage the girls of Watts, Rich, and Belk to venture forth and develop strong bonds with their male counterparts. As for the single-sex dorms, we can’t help but wish you good luck. Finally, 1WB wants it known that we will always try to exhibit the ultimate display of hall unity. Our newly-developed friendships, team spirit, and enthusiasm have helped us adjust to college life and understand that this experience is about much more than studying and partying. We hope you all will become involved with your hall, attend the mixers and hall activities, and support your hallmates. Remember the adage “there is strength in numbers.” Hall spirit has been pounded into us by our wonderful hall counselors, and we hope everyone else will catch the spirit as well. Finally, don’t forget to play in your hall’s flickerball games. 1WB will be there in full force to show you what it’s all about.

лопорон IIpesugeut Bat-- Bosbioe cnacu6o 3a MopoxeHoe! --CTY]CHTbI PyCCKOrO A3bIKa