10 THE DAVIDSONIAN Arts & LIVING

Masciadri thrills Hodson audience

By WESLEY GOLDSBERRY
Arts & Living Editor

On Sunday, Sept. 21, a large crowd of community members, faculty, and students gathered together for a musical spectacle that
probably even God never intended. But Milton Masciadri’s double bass recital, the first of five concerts in this year’s Davidson
College Concert Series, was especially entertaining both because of the quality of the performance and the obscurity of the event.
Solo recitals are more typically performed on instruments such as violin, piano, flute, cello, trumpet, or on...

Blackbird Recording Company

Everything, apparently on the brink of stardom, will play at Sigma Phi Epsilon Saturday night.

Everything to stop at Davidson

By WESLEY GOLDSBERRY
Arts & Living Editor

Every once in a while, students here get an opportunity to see an up-and-coming band before the world gets its
first glimpse. The Dave Matthews Band concert three years ago undoubtedly pops into mind. This Saturday, the musical group Everything
will perform at Sigma Phi Epsilon on Patterson Court. The group opened for The Who at a recent concert at
Nissan Pavilion outside Washington, D.C., performing before a crowd of nearly 25,000 — their biggest gig of late.

Everything, who have been dubbed “one of the best kept secrets in American music” by critic J.T. Griffith, is fortunately
not yet too “huge” to cease their steady regimen of performing nearly 200 club shows a year. Their first major
record is due out in January 1998 and will be distributed to 52 countries around the world.

Everything is a 6-piece band from northern Virginia, most of whose members went to James Madison University. Having been together
for eight years, Everything has played at Davidson a few times before. According to Craig Honeycutt, the band’s lead vocalist
and guitarist, the band always encounters “nice people” here. But don’t mosh when you’re at his shows. “Moshing’s over,” he
said in a recent telephone interview.

Their sound has been described as an eclectic blend of rock, jazz, hip-hop, and ska, creating a unique style that
is difficult to compare with those of other musical groups — something that has undoubtedly helped lead to their popularity.
Their versatility in style has also enabled them to play with a variety of influential artists, including a stint with
Maceo Parker, former saxophonist for James Brown.

Their songs are more inspired than crafted. “Art comes from your personal experience,” Honeycutt said. Although he claims that the
group has no few special musical idols, Honeycutt said he’s been listening to a lot of Los Lobos recently. Their
new record is being produced in the same studio where Nirvana recorded Nevermind, and should eventually receive significant radio airplay.

This Saturday night will be everyone’s chance to preview a band who could become as big as Hootie — perhaps
even bigger, for Everything habitually uses more than three different chords in each of their songs. As A.J. Hammer of
VH-1 said of Everything, “I think these guys are going to be huge.” And if you can’t trust A.J. Hammer,
who can you trust?

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1997A cold day in Hell, viola. But the double bass, in light of its extremely low range
of pitch and unruly size, is much more strictly used as an ensemble instrument. Those who deign to perform solo
literature upon it must often play entire pieces on its highest string, hunched over their instrument in a grueling struggle
to conquer pieces that could be much more simply performed on one or more instruments that are not quite so
“hippopotamic.” It makes one ask the question, “Why?” Because it’s all the more impressive if you can pull it off,
which Masciadri could.

Accompanied by accomplished pianist Edward Eikner, the South American native Masciadri performed seven works on a 1690 Testore bass. The
first half consisted of Rachmaninoff’s familiar Vocalise and Schubert’s Sonata in A Minor, D. 821 (Arpeggione). Masciadri’s intonation was suspect
at points early in the performance, but most of the audience paid little heed to such details as they were
transfixed, in awe of his 300-year-old axe. The pace quickened in the second half with Gliere’s Intermezzo and Tarantella, Op.
9, in which Masciadri’s fingers scrambled up and down the fingerboard with impressive accuracy and agility. He continued to outdo
himself throughout the remainder of the recital, as the virtuosity of his repertoire never waned. The audience responded with energetic
applause and a well-deserved standing ovation following his encore.

Aside from his musical prowess, Masciadri proved a charming speaker as he addressed the audience several times during the performance.
Masciadri is currently on faculty at the University of Georgia and has performed as a soloist on three continents. His
performance last Sunday was undoubtedly one of the more enthralling recitals to grace Davidson’s campus in recent memory.

Creativity flows through the 900 Room
By Carrie Morris
Arts & Living Editor

For those of you who missed out on the “Art Night” debut, picture this: Free food, good music (courtesy of
Dustin Page, fellow Davidson student), Elmer’s glue, beads, pipe cleaners, construction paper, paints, colored pencils, magic markers, popsicle sticks... Need
I say more? A nice, relaxing atmosphere and tons of materials to send us back into our childhood where true
satisfaction came from simple creations with paint and glue. The only difference is that now, you can do all this
and have a beer at the same time — if you get one of those green “over 21” hand stamps,
of course.

Danielle Mall, a senior attendant of Art Night, was impressed with the event. “This is so cool, my inner child
needed this!” she exclaimed, holding a bottle of white glue in one hand and colored pipe cleaners in another. The
event proved successful and I hope that it will happen again soon so that all you kids who missed out
will get a chance to play!

Art Night hits the 900 Room for the first time with a flurry of creativity.
