14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Hoops squad opens practice Nov. 20 at Duke: ‘We’ve got a chance to quiet them down.’

Men’s hoops from page 16

Many think it could be a national championship season for the Blue Devils. Nineteen onlookers — including the three student
managers — sat in the Belk stands at the beginning of the Wildcats’ Saturday session. When asked if he had
watched Friday night’s telecast from a frenzied Durham, Zimmerman said he had, then added, “We’ve got a chance to quiet
them down. The stage is set. Now we’ve got to go play.”

Landry Kosmalski, the Southern Conference Freshman of the Year last season, nursed a case of tendinitis in his knee virtually
throughout the off-season, playing sparingly in Italy and only returning to full action 10 days ago. But according to the
power forward, the knee, after plenty of rest and rehabilitation, is in good shape. “It’s good,” he said before Saturday’s
practice. “When I came back, it felt better. I hope it holds up.”

Ben Ebong, a junior who redshirted last year and returns to the frontcourt rotation this year for Davidson, had his
wisdom teeth out over fall break. The 6-foot-8 forward will return to full practice early this week.

Davidson Sports Information

Landry Kosmalski, the Southern Conference Freshman of the Year last season, is one of many reasons Bob McKillop’s men’s basketball
team begins practice with high hopes for 1997-98. The team opens Nov. 20 versus Duke in Durham.

Davidsonian Sports

“It’s a 12-month mission.”

Out of this world refreshment! Register for free

DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT HEALTH - PROTECTING THE EARTH FROM THE MICRO-SCUM OF THE UNIVERSE.

SPORTS

Crowd made it happen at the Jake

CLEVELAND — When fans attend sporting events, they are often guilty of hyperbole when classifying the event as a “great
life experience.” While fans usually recall the experience of attending a game or match, it is infrequent that an event
will offer a lesson to a fan.

On the Sunday of fall break, I had one of these rare experiences. I had the good fortune to witness
game four of the American League Championship Series at Jacobs Field between the Baltimore Orioles and the Cleveland Indians.

There my dad and I sat, an orange and black speck amongst a sea of red and navy blue. We
had worn our allegiance all day in Cleveland — from the time we arrived and toured the Rock-and-Roll Cafe, to
eating lunch at The Flats, up until walking to the park. Throughout the day, our wardrobe created conversation. People smiled.
We discussed the craziness of game three. One guy jived, “You're in the wrong town.” One guy, walking the streets
in Cleveland with his two children — all three wearing Indian hats — even welcomed us to Cleveland.

My dad — the ticket supplier and my companion — and I arrived in Cleveland early Sunday afternoon with great
anticipation. After a botched suicide squeeze attempt on Saturday had given the Indians a 2-1 advantage in the best-of-seven series,
we were hopeful that the Orioles could pull even. And while we ultimately left disappointed that Cleveland took a commanding
3-1 lead, the atmosphere around Jacobs Field during and after the game was unforgettable.

Generally, home field advantage is more meaningful in basketball, football, and hockey than baseball. In last year’s World Series, the
road team won the first five games. It is thought that baseball crowds cannot affect the outcome of the game
as in basketball, football, or hockey. That is, any baseball crowd except Indian fans. Their presence has influenced each postseason
game in Cleveland. And although the Orioles were able to steal a victory in game five, the rowdy Indian crowd
drained Baltimore. The volume that Jacobs Field vents is unprecedented. Besides cheering for every Indian, the crowd has adopted vocal
traditions such as screaming every time there are two strikes on an opposing batter. The echo of wahoo chants is
also a familiar sound.

Aside from sheer noise, it seemed that everyone donned the appropriate apparel. Indians hats, jackets, sweatshirts, jerseys, and red socks
were ubiquitous. Except in section 124, row BB.

But what is so typical for hometown fans to do — scold the visiting supporters and tell them to get
out of town — didn’t happen in Cleveland. During the game, supporting the visiting team forced me to step back
and witness the genuine excitement these fans felt when their team succeeded. Although the game was a frustrating one for
me, it was enjoyable to see the real passion that these fans felt toward their team. After Sandy Alomar’s two-out
single in the bottom of the ninth inning gave Cleveland the win, it wasn’t the Oriole defeat that hurt. It
was the jealousy I felt, wishing that the Camden Yards crowd could be half as involved. That was most painful.

On Wednesday, when the series returned to Baltimore, Oriole fans were urged to leave their wine and cheese at home,
to instead come prepared with a loud voice and an Oriole hat. While theWednesday's crowd was one of the loudest
in Camden Yard history, but it wasn’t Cleveland's. Not even close. When the tie game entered the bottom of the
ninth inning, an automatic time to stand at Jacobs Field, the Camden Yard crowd yawned, waiting for something to happen.
Sadly, it is only in Cleveland where the fans truly have the love, where the crowd makes it happen.

Women’s soccer beats conference dregs but squad falters on New England trip, at Wake

By JAY CANTRELL
Sports Editor

The floodgates finally opened for the Wildcats, as they dominated Chattanooga 6-0 Saturday. The win was their second conference shutout
in the last two weeks. They defeated Wofford 2-0 on Oct. 10. The victories improve their chances of earning home-field
advantage in the first round of the league playoffs, which start next Tuesday.

Against Wofford, Rhina Roberts recorded her first goal of the season at the 36-minute mark. In the second half, Amy
Balsinger netted a penalty kick to put the game out of reach. Wofford outshot Davidson 19-16, but Allie Noznesky made
12 saves to preserve her fifth shutout of the season.

The Wildcats dominated every aspect of the game against the Mocs, outshooting Chattanooga 31-5 and scoring two goals in the
first stanza and four in the second. It was Davidson’s largest scoring output since last year’s conference tournament. Ginny Dye
tallied two goals and an assist, while Roberts, Amy Kanoff, Natalie Stumpf, and Katie Byrnes notched one goal apiece. Kelly
Rennick had two assists, while Mandy Kinane, Leila Wormuth, and Kate McKnight each picked up an assist of their own.

Over the break, the team traveled to Yale and Brown, losing 3-0 and 2-1, respectively. Kanoff opened the scoring at
Stevenson Field, but Brown tied it up early in the second half and scored the game-winner 4:06 into the overtime
period. On Oct. 7, the Wildcats had to wait 55 minutes for the lights to turn on at Richardson Field
before they dropped a 3-0 decision to conference heavyweight UNC Greensboro. And on Sunday, the Wildcats fell 2-0 at No.
18 Wake Forest. Davidson now stands at 4-10-2 overall and 3-2-1 in the conference.

Men’s soccer from page 16

Keeper Brad Stroble recorded his first career shutout. “This is an unbelievable feeling,” Stroble said after defeating the Tar Heels.
“What a win for the team and for me. It is even more special because North Carolina is another school
that recruited me.” In his last nine games, Stroble has been stingy in the cage, allowing just over one goal
a game and compiling a 6-3 mark.

Sparked by a position change — moving freshman Andy Lanoha to sweeper, allowing Randy Culbertson to play stopper and utilize
his offensive skills — the defense has been superb. An extremely youthful defensive unit consisting mostly of freshmen and sophomores,
who at times showed inexperience earlier in the season, is now a true strength on this team.

Jeff Harrell got the Davidson offense going on Tuesday. With just under 30 minutes remaining in the first half, Phil
Julien penetrated deep into Tar Heel territory and found Harrell. Harrell, fading away as he shot, had just enough on
the ball to have it bounce off the post and barely trickle past the line. Davidson maintained that advantage into
the half and hoped to keep the pressure on North Carolina. But it was the Tar Heels (4-10) who came
out attacking in the second half, taking two shots at point-blank range early in the second half. But Stroble defended
them both.

“That was a big point in the game,” said Stroble. “We needed to come out strong in the second half,
but they came out a little stronger. That sequence may have been a turning point.” With 20 minutes remaining in
the game, Hart Roper sealed the win for Davidson, putting an Andrew Holbrook feed into the lower right corner.

Sunday’s game against Wake Forest was originally scheduled as part of a doubleheader with the women at the lower varsity
fields. But heavy rains forced the games to be played in Winston-Salem. “Sunday’s game, because we had to switch at
the last minute, may have been a bigger win,” Slagle said.

A big win, but a costly win. Goalkeeper Marshall Tyler, playing “awesome” according to Slagle, was hit in the jaw
midway through the second half while making a save in a crowd. He had surgery on the jaw yesterday and
is out for the remainder of this season. The Demon Deacons (7-6) outshot Davidson 22-8 and Tyler recorded seven saves
before suffering the injury. While he kept Davidson in the game, the offense had difficulty creating opportunities early. But Dane
Erickson’s shot late in the second half gave the Wildcats the only score they needed.
