DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1997

By Aaron DUNHAM

Baseball brings big batsmen, renewed vigor into season

Staff Writer

On Wednesday, the baseball team will open its 1997 campaign against South Carolina, a team consistently among the nation’s elite. The challenging debut will be an indication of what’s ahead for the Wildcats, who face an ex- tremely tough schedule.

“Our non-conference schedule is bad,” said seventh-year head coach Dick Cooke in a recent interview. Davidson faces three ACC schools - Wake Forest, Duke, and N.C. State - and two SEC schools - Auburn and South Carolina - in non-league play. And once they enter conference play, things won’t get any easier.

“The expectation of our conference is that we can get a team to the College World Series,” said Cooke. Georgia Southern was ranked as high as tenth in the country last season and again stands as conference favorite. The other traditional power teams within the league will also reload. “Western Carolina has everyone back and The Citadel will be strong again,” added Cooke.

But this year’s team can only benefit from such rigorous competition. On the field, Davidson looks to improve upon last year. Unlike the rest of its conference opponents and most of the teams on their schedule, the squad is non-funded. Therefore, it is a tribute to the team that the Wildcats are even competitive, let alone entirely capable of knocking off Duke and Wake Forest, something it did last season.

“Our offense is going to be awesome this year,” said junior Luke Goodwin. Indeed. The Wildcats return senior captain Gus Quattlebaum and veterans Brad Edwards and Anderson Marvin, all of whom should be major threats at the plate. Quattlebaum, who played in the prestigious Cape Cod (Mass.) League last summer, will benefit from moving back to right field after playing at third last season. The addition of several new faces to the squad has allowed many players to move back to their natural positions. Goodwin will also move from right to center field where he says he is much more comfortable.

The offense is not the only reason for the excitement. “We have a lot of team speed,” said Quattlebaum. “And we are also going to be solid defensively.” The exciting new rookie middle infield of shortstop Ben Brown and second baseman Drew Williams has looked excellent in the pre-season. “Drew is better defensively than guys I’ve seen at Wake,” remarked Goodwin, who began his college career as a Demon Deacon.

With most of the parts in place, the key to the season will undoubtedly be the pitching. The staff will be anchored by veterans Mordecai Stolk and John Coulombe with the other starting slots up for grabs. “We’ll see how we can utilize people in certain roles,” remarked Cooke. Not only is it going to be important to find a starting rotation, but also to keep it healthy. “If the pitching stays healthy, we’re gonna be good,” added Goodwin.

The off-season clearly revealed this team’s commitment to Davidson baseball. The Wildcats trained extensively this fall, including 6 a.m. workouts. “I don’t think any other school in the nation had 6 a.m. workouts,” said Quattlebaum. “We know we can compete and be a good baseball team.”

Despite the non-conference gauntlet and pitching concerns, this team clearly boasts potential. “It’s a legitimate goal to finish .500,” said Goodwin. The Wildcats play their home opener Saturday with a doubleheader against Va. Commonwealth, a 38-game winner last season. The first game begins at noon.

Rich DeSelm looks on as the swim team goes through his practice regimen last Saturday morning at Cannon pool.

By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

Heading into the Southern States meet at Cannon pool this Thursday through Saturday, the men’s and women’s swimming and diving teams both have confidence that they can bring a championship to Davidson.

“In the beginning of the year we hung a list in the locker room that said beat Charleston, beat Duke, win Southern States,” Mike McCabe said about the men’s team. “We’ve already checked off the first two, and the last thing we have to check off is Southern States. We’ve been preparing for this all year. We beat Georgia Southern in our dual meet, and they were our main competition last year (the Eagles won Southern States, Davidson finished third). We’ve accomplished everything we’ve wanted to all year, and I don’t see how we won’t overcome this hurdle.”

After Saturday’s practice, head coach Rich DeSelm told his team that they needed to focus on winning each of the six sessions of the meet. According to DeSelm, the psych sheets (seedings for each event based on this year’s times) showed that both Davidson teams could be fighting for the Southern States crown. The men have won the title once (1995), but the women have never finished higher than fourth (1996).

“If we perform to the level of ourAbilities then we should be fighting for the crown,” DeSelm said.

Hart and Soul

Diver Michael Hart has been a clutch performer for the men’s team in his final season. He is third in points on the team (125) behind Scott Harper (155.25) and Freddy Schnell (135.5), but that is more impressive considering that swimmers can compete in three individual events and one relay per meet, while Hart only competes in two (1m and 3m diving). He has come up with double wins in five of the seven diving meets this season, not doubling only against East Carolina on Dec. 7 (first - 1m, second - 3m) and UNC-W on Jan. 18 (second on both boards). In 1995, he won the 1m crown at Southern States, but he has never pulled off a Southern States double.

“I’d like to have one of my best meets. That would be a nice topping to my career,” Hart said. “I’ve also got some more technical goals. I want to break 400 points on the 3m, and I'd like to win both boards.

“My dives are not coming together quite as well as I’d like them to be. I’m hoping that everything is going to come together on Thursday and Friday. It’s just a matter of relaxing and having fun.”

DeSelm to manage Pan-Pacific games

DeSelm has been selected as head manager of the United States team for the seventh Pan-Pacific games in Fukuoka, Japan this summer. The competition will last four days, but, with a two- to three-day training camp, getting settled in Japan, and actually traveling to and from Fukuoka, DeSelm’s responsibilities will span a two-week period.

“My job is to make sure that everything is pulled off fairly and equally with the athletes foremost in mind,” DeSelm said. “We want as few wrinkles as possible.”

DeSelm was selected from the manager’s trip list (a group of potential managers) by United States Swimming (USS). The team itself will be chosen based on performances at the Phillips 66 Summer National Swimming Championships in Nashville, Tenn., from July 26 - Aug. 1. Twenty-six men and 26 women will make the team, along with four, two men and two women, open-water athletes (10 km swim or further) and 17 staff people. DeSelm will have two assistants.

“It will be fun hard work,” DeSelm said. “It takes away from my job and my family. But I asked (Athletic Director) Jim Murphy for permission in case I was chosen, and I was selected. It’s a great honor. I will get to see some of the best swimming in the world.”

Pacific rim countries will compete in the games, including swimming powers New Zealand, Japan, and possibly China.

Super-crazy swim fans

The teams’ success has attracted such a following this season, that fans have started doing something they’ve never done before - travel. In their meet at Duke on Feb. 1, the swimmers emerged from the locker room to see raucous superfans Charlie McLaughlin, Will Hudson, Jason Lina, and Chad Foster cheering.

“It was pretty fun because they (the swimmers) had no idea we were coming,” McLaughlin said. “When we walked in, they got pretty pumped, and we were screaming and yelling and acting like idiots.

“It was fun because there weren’t that many Duke fans there and we made our presence known. We had a good time doing it, and we think they appreciated it.”

The swimmers certainly did. Schnell said their presence changed the feeling of the meet.

“It was nice to see more Davidson fans than Duke fans there,” he said. “We have swum well at home all season, and it was like a home atmosphere with them there.”

Rugby falls to UNC Chapel Hill in short-handed opener

By Will Baldwin
Staff Writer

In the cold and muck of the Mooresville First Baptist Church field, the rugby team’s season got off to an inauspicious start with a 36-7 trouncing at the hands of UNC Chapel Hill. Forced off their home field, the Wildcats looked uncomfortable and outmanned. Several turnovers and poor tackling led to four first-half Tarheel scores.

“We had several good opportunities in the first half and could not manage to convert them, and then I think their strength and technique took over the game,” said coach Blaine Segal.

In the second half, Davidson came out with a newfound intensity and limited the bigger and faster Tarheels to two scores. Midway through the second half, Davidson pushed the ball downfield on a series of nice back runs and forward rucks. Then captain Thayer Long scooped the ball up and touched the ball down for Davidson’s lone score. Matt Burkhardt converted the kick after.

“It would have been really easy for these guys to just roll over and give up after all we had been through,” said Long. “But they showed a great deal of heart in the second half and that means a lot.”