RTS & LIVING _ MONDAY, APRIL 14, 1997

Concert program makes history

By JENNIFER CARLSON
Staff Writer

This week, The Davidson College Music Department will make history. For the first time, The Davidson College Symphony Orchestra, DC
Concert Choir, and DC Chamber Singers will share the stage, giving two admission-free performances of one unprecedented program. On Thursday,
April 17 at 8 p.m. in Davidson College Presbyterian Church and again on Saturday, April 19 at 8 p.m. in
First Baptist Church, 301 S. Davidson St., Charlotte, one can enjoy Davidson College’s first-ever choir and symphony program, featuring works
of Mozart and Bach.

With approximately 85 students in the Concert Choir and 65 in the Symphony Orchestra, this program will star one-tenth of
the Davidson student population. In addition, four professional singers from Charlotte and Europe will share their talents as soloists. Yet
there is more to this program than sheer numbers. According to DCSO conductor Richard Prior, “this is music-making on a
scale and standard keeping with Davidson’s profile as a premier institution.”

Prior and DCCC conductor Donna M. Di Grazia will share the podium, leading performers through an impressive repertoire. The Symphony
Orchestra will open the program with Mozart’s Overture from Marriage of Figaro. Di Grazia will then conduct Magnificat by Bach,
featuring the Chamber Singers. Prior will return to the podium for the final selection, Mozart’s Requiem, starring the voices of
the Concert Choir. The Thursday performance is entitled the “James G. Swisher Memorial Concert” in honor of the late Davidson
pianist-in-residence and beloved musician. Keep in mind that the concert is in Davidson College Presbyterian Church, so early arrival is
advised (remember how quickly seats fill up at events like Vespers).

Prior expresses warm thanks for the consistently strong support of DCSO. He affirms that the upcoming concert is “what Davidson
and the surrounding community should expect” from the DC Music Department. Please come and be a part of history.

Dream Team thrills Davidson students with personal interaction and stellar performance

By STEVE DUNCAN
Staff Writer

Music does live at Davidson. No doubt, everyone has been to a student recital or three, giving the obligatory standing
ovation and one, maybe two curtain calls for little Mike Pealson, that kid who sits so quietly three rows back
in Economics but does play his ophicleide rather loudly. But how many times do you get to see the real
thing? Who among you has heard a stirring rendition of Shostakovich’s 5th played live by the Chicago Symphony? Or Beethoven’s
3rd live in Carnegie Hall with the New York Philharmonic? I question rhetorically, of course; exposure to that kind of
art will probably only befall the average apathetic and money-driven human once, perhaps twice, in a lifetime.

Well, for those of you looking to take care of it good and early, you have no further to look
than the week of April 21. Thirteen of the most famous musicians in the world will be spending it here
with us. Conceived by Joseph Robinson, a 1962 Davidson College alumnus and the principal oboist for the New York Philharmonic,
this week-long residency will allow Davidson students the chance to see these celebrated performers in nightly concerts as well as
the opportunity for personal interaction in master classes. Robinson, also referred to as “Oboe Joe” or just “Obs” by his
Davidson Phi Delt brothers, sees this as a rare opportunity for students to learn from some of the best musicians
performing today.

“What Davidsonians share is an aspiration to excellence,” Robinson stated. “Whether a student cares about classical music or not, he
should be interested in the dynamics of success.” And successful these musicians are, indeed. This musical “Dream Team” consists of
principals in nine symphony orchestras across the United States, as well as internationally known and highly sought-after soloists and chamber
players. No other liberal arts college in the Southeast, or in the country, can boast of such an event.

To claim tickets, identify yourself as a Davidson student and contact Joe Robinson at ext. 2999.Request a complimentary seat for
the Gala Benefit Concert. Masters at Davidson: The Vail Music Residency will take place the week following the first-ever D.C.
Symphony. The entire country, for that matter, has ever been able to assemble such a stellar crowd of musicians. For
this week, music will not only live at Davidson. It will thrive. It will teem. It might even froth over.
Nine master classes will be offered free of charge by reservation to anyone interested in participating as instrumentalists or as
audience members. Three of the four evening concerts will also be free with a reservation.

In addition, several members of the Davidson College Board of Visitors have made gifts enabling students to attend the Friday
evening Gala Benefit Concert in Love Auditorium, featuring the entire chamber ensemble joined by world-renowned soprano Sylvia McNair. While tickets
to this exciting finale range from $100 to $500 for all other patrons, 50 student tickets will be distributed on
a first-come, first-served basis, and are available by contacting Residency Coordinator Teresa Sharp or Freshman Pete Tomson. The Orchestra/Concert Choir
joint performance featuring Mozart’s Requiem makes the next two weeks an exciting time for Davidson music. Any questions regarding reservations
for the week’s activities should be directed to Teresa Sharp at her on-campus extension.

Anna Judy Hindemith recital blows audience away

Six sonatas featuring wind instruments and piano showcase student talent

By JENNIFER CARLSON
Staff Writer

On Monday, April 7, 1997, in Hodson Hall, six talented Davidson students and accompanist Cynthia Lawing performed music of Paul
Hindemith (1895-1963) to an intrigued audience. The idea to produce an All-Hindemith recital came from the creative minds of seniors
Steve Duncan and Jay Hudson, who had both been individually studying Hindemith pieces. Hindemith, “one of the most prolific and
influential composers of the twentieth century,” held a special interest for the wind instruments. Duncan and Hudson therefore designed a
program featuring six sonatas for wind instruments and piano. Their idea proved to be undoubtedly successful.

The program opened with the triumphant sounds of the trumpet played by senior Tom Vanderbloemen. In this performance of the
first movement, Mit kraft, of the Sonata for Trumpet and Piano (1939), Vanderbloemen exhibited great control of crescendos and sustained
notes. His playing was indeed loud, but it did not drown out the excellent piano accompaniment of Lawing. Together, the
duo effectively captivated the audience.

Elena Franklin, ‘97, then quieted the mood with her performance of the second movement of the Sonata for Bassoon and
Piano (1938). This was my first opportunity to hear a bassoon solo, and I was quite pleased. The instrument provides
a unique, soothing resonance, exemplified by Franklin’s skillful playing of this tranquil sonata.

Next, Hudson exhibited great rhythmic control in his performance of the Sonata for Tuba and Piano (1955) by maintaining a
triple meter against the duple meter of the piano. Particularly enjoyable in this piece were the rich bass notes of
the tuba and the rhythmic concluding measures.

In the following selection, Sonata for Horn and Piano (1939) featuring junior Erika Rissing, there was commendable interaction between the
soloist and pianist. Rissing successfully sustained notes, leading directly into forte sections without taking a breath. Lawing meanwhile exhibited careful
retardandos, slowing down to preserve the pleasing atmosphere. Congratulations to both on a solid performance.

Laura Sheaffer, ‘99 gave an excellent performance of the Sonata for Flute and Piano (1936). In the first movement, Heiter
bewegt, Sheaffer carried a beautiful melody, effortlessly reaching high notes. The slower second movement was followed by the fast, rhythmic
measures of the final movement, Sehr lebhaft - Marsch. Piano and flute complemented each other well from the beginning to
the resounding, lively finale.

To conclude the evening, Duncan and Lawing performed all four movements of the Sonata for Trombone and Piano (1941). In
the first movement, Duncan played various musical intervals, reaching high and low notes with ease. He continued such skill in
the following sections and executed crescendos effectively. Lawing performed the difficult accompaniment with mastery, keeping rhythm and holding notes to
lead into subsequent movements.
