THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Ukrop in ‘92: Man among boys

Now a pro, inspiring kids with message of hard work

By MICHAEL J. KRUSE
Editor in Chief

This is another in an ongoing series of articles commemorating the fifth anniversary of the men’s soccer team’s miraculous run to the 1992 NCAA Final Four at Richardson Field.

RICHMOND, Va. — Rob Ukrop was, as fellow 1992 Wildcat captain Matt Spear would say, a man among boys that year. Using a quick-trigger release, booming right foot, and an uncanny ability to be in the right place at the right time, Ukrop dominated the college soccer world.

“It was a great situation for me,” he said. “I had no defensive responsibilities. I was always in the box, and that’s where I’m most effective.”

What Ukrop did in 1992, though — and during his entire Davidson career, for that matter — went way, way beyond mere efficacy.

“Rob” — whose license plate in 1992 read, “H8S2LSE” — “is somebody who is very competitive,” coach Charlie Slagle said in a recent interview. “Anytime he gets challenged, he rises to the challenge. We tried to put him in a position where it would emphasize what his strengths were.

“We didn’t make him run around a lot. We got him the ball a lot, and as quickly as we could. We tried to give him as many opportunities as possible, knowing he would do something with them.”

And do something he did. As the nation’s most potent scorer in 1992 — 31 goals and 10 assists for an astronomical 72 points — the first-team All-American striker represented the consistent individual offensive output so critical to any championship-caliber soccer team.

In leading the non-scholarship Wildcats to a 17-5-5 record and a most improbable berth in the national semifinals, the veteran striker garnered All-Southern Conference, All-South, and All-American accolades; earned the Adi Dassler Memorial Award, given to college soccer’s most outstanding senior; and was one of three finalists for National Player of the Year.

All told, Ukrop amassed 76 goals and 32 assists for an astounding 184 career points — by far the most prolific overall output for any Davidson soccer player ever. Ukrop, certainly the most decorated athlete in school history and arguably the most legendary, had a certain intangible something Italian soccer aficionados call “malicia,” meaning a striker’s ability to sting.

“Just the ability to beat you,” Spear explained in an August interview.

He beat UNC Charlotte in the first round of the NCAA tournament, converting a bicycle kick to give the Wildcats a 2-1 overtime advantage. He beat round-of-eight opponent North Carolina St. with a dramatic triple-overtime tally, lifting the Wildcats into the Final Four. Indeed, against many seemingly helpless teams in 1992, Ukrop did sting.

And to think 1992 wasn’t even supposed to happen for Ukrop, for whom that magical season represented a second senior year of sorts. As a much ballyhooed fourth-year star in 1991, Ukrop suffered a broken left leg in the second game of the season against North Carolina. While many saw the injury as a disaster — and, ultimately, it did prove disastrous for the 1991 Wildcats, who sputtered to an 8-10-2 mark without him — Ukrop, always the optimist, saw an opportunity, and elected to take a medical redshirt and return for a grand finale.

“I thought, this is a great opportunity to get a medical redshirt, to come back,” Ukrop said over lunch last month.Here in his hometown, “Great things can happen.” A combination of nerves and stomach upset made the night before the national semifinal against San Diego a restless one for Ukrop. “He didn’t sleep a wink the night before the game,” Spear recalled. “I remember coming to Baker around 4 p.m. to get taped and get ready. And I saw Rob sitting there on one of the couches in the lobby kind of half-crying, half-choking, trying to get ahold of himself. He had just done an interview with radio or print and he couldn’t collect himself. He was so nervous. He said that he felt sick, but I think he was sick because he felt nervous. He never fully said that, but he had reason to have nerves. He was the focal point. I think, all of a sudden, he realized he needed to step up. He did all the other times, but in this game, it was much more important. He knew we needed his example out there.”

And, battling nerves and fatigue, Ukrop was — relatively speaking, of course — a virtual non-factor versus the Toreros. To this day, Ukrop adamantly says that the Wildcats would have beaten powerhouse Virginia had they made it to Sunday’s national championship. “No doubt about it,” he said. “They were a very confident team, but so were we. I feel they would have had trouble matching up with us. We had an unorthodox style, and we were the ultimate team. But we couldn’t get past San Diego.”

Nonetheless, for the Richmond native, nothing has ever come close to rivaling 1992 — and it’s highly unlikely anything ever will. His professional soccer career has been somewhat of a letdown after his dream-like tenure at Davidson. For someone so team-oriented, the fiercely individualistic style in minor league soccer — everyone out there has one goal: to crack an MLS roster — is troubling. Although he enjoyed a 16-game stint with the MLS’s New England Revolution in 1996 — including nine starts — Ukrop has never been on a team as tight-knit as the 1992 Wildcats.

“To me, at no point in the season, was it about me scoring a certain amount of goals,” Ukrop said.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1997

Ukrop on the Richmond Kickers of the USL. Played in six games, recording one assist. He is now a Certified Public Accountant.

Contributed 12 points on three goals and six assists. He is now an Assistant Art Director for Business North Carolina Magazine in Charlotte.

Ryan Northington, Fr., Mid. Sent the Wildcats to the Elite Eight with his sudden death penalty kick against Coastal Carolina. He is currently a Product Developer for Metasys, Inc. in Charlotte.

Ian O'Brien, Fr., Def. Played in 23 games off the bench, scoring a goal and two assists. O’Brien is now a Marketing Representative.

Ukrop gives motivational speeches to thousands of Virginia schoolchildren every year, using the 1992 Davidson men’s soccer team as an example that, through hard work and cooperation, dreams can and do come true.

Preston Yarborough, Sr., Mid. A scrappy player who started 17 of 23 games in 1992, Yarborough worked for Michelin in Chicago and Indianapolis after graduation. He now serves as an account manager for Yarborough & Company in High Point.