THE DAVIDSONIAN

One group’s trip to Heaven
Means of transcendence? The Vamanos Van
By Tim SalnTSING
Guest Writer

You know that the SGA’s Vamonos Van can take you anywhere in between Mooresville and Huntersville. But did you know
it can take you to heaven? Four of my friends and I discovered that it could. Here’s a log of
our adventure. Names have been concealed for the individuals’ protection. The following events happened Saturday night:

10:45 p.m.: The Party of Five leaves the Outpost to drum up some homemade fun up the hill. We catch
the smell of a hint of diesel fuel in the evening air. It was this diesel-fuel buzz that encouraged us
to board the Vamonos Van. Destination: unknown.

11:11 p.m.: Captain Walker Stokes takes us to the First Union ATM. We leave the sodium-lit sidewalks of Davidson behind
as we venture through the back roads leading to Cornelius. Destination: Irish Cue.

11:20 p.m.: We drop dead weight in the parking lot. Vamonos departs. The now Party of Four runs to the
Cue. We find it packed. Crowd: unappealing. Cost: a staggering five bucks.

11:20-30 p.m.: Go next door to the Double Door Inn at the Lake. It calls itself the “hottest dance club
in Cornelius.” Thought: does it know that it is the only dance club in Cornelius? Crowd: pushing 55 years of
age, drunk, and very appealing. Cost: a mere six dollars.

11:35 p.m.: SHZ shares feelings of being underdressed without her Jordache Jeans™ and Keds. HRL wishes she had on a
theme sweater. CGM scopes the crowd while I look for my dance-floor mama. We order drinks.

11:41 p.m.: I have my choice from six of the most beautiful women in the Lake Norman area. The members
of “Tymie Square,” the live “band,” all begin thrusting pelvic while belting out the tune “Celebration!” Lady in Pink, clogging
under the mirrored ball, begins giving out the loudest booty call this side of Interstate-77.

11:42 p.m.: I answer her call. HRL, SHZ, and CGM funk with a drunk gentleman (age: 47; height: 4-foot-1; weight:
250 pounds) smoking a gnarled cigar. All efforts to start a train around the dance floor while dancing to “Come
on, Ride the Train” fail. Ladies begin dancing with tambourines. Navajo Warrior Man begins dancing to “Sexual Healing.” CGM, SHZ,
and HRL leave me on the dance floor with three 40-year-olds. These ladies call CGM, SHZ, and HRL “aggressive.” I
laugh. They're jealous, I say to myself. I kiss all three of their hands after the song is over. Thought:
get digits later.

12:42 a.m.: SHZ orders shots. Here at the Double Door, shots are called “tooters” and come in test tubes. Bonus:
you can keep the tubes. Downer: the tubes are filled with Capri Sun Brand® drinks.

12:59 a.m.: We board Vamonos, agreeing that the Double Door Inn was our idea of heaven. Just listen to their
flier: “Party and Dance ‘til 2 a.m., play Foosball and pool in the pub...Doors open at 8 p.m., Bands begin
around 9:30. DANCE...DRINK AND BE MERRY!”

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1997

Seniors Dean and Wood have work on display at the Union
By Meredith BENKE
Staff Writer

For those of you who have not noticed that the myriad of not-yet-oriented-freshman faces have left the walls of the
Union’s gallery, I would like to point...Your attention to that fact and to that which has replaced them. Seniors Cooper
Dean and Asher Wood are currently displaying a variety of their studio works—from sculpture that glows and sculpture that holds
its own on the wall to monotype, encaustic on wood, and acrylic works. Although the exhibit is not well-labeled, a
listing of works by each artist is available at the Union desk to ease confusion about whose work is whose.
(You can opt for the easy route by looking for Cooper’s signature on all his works except “Luminous Beings,” his
freestanding sculpture piece). Regardless of labeling, you should not have a problem differentiating stylistically between the works of these two
VAC haunters. The Crayola eight-pack color schemes of Dean’s work redeem themselves by the very intensity those hues bring to
the canvas and paper and by their ability to draw in the unsuspecting viewer into a glowing other world. Some
of the titles are equally as elusive as the pulsing spaces that Dean creates for the eye’s entrance. The small
composition “Duode,” for example, jumps off the wall with incredible intensity. The strength of Wood’s rich application and subtle manipulation
of color shows itself best in his three untitled encaustic pieces. The most dynamic of these, which includes a nearly
heart-shaped found object and its silhouette, maintains a rhythm and balance that is the most pleasing of the three. Of
Wood's painted works, “Higgins” is exemplary, packing the most punch with a utility of color and line, and a composition
that demands to escape the limits of the page. (I may be partial because I had the honor of meeting
this work’s feisty namesake.) There you have some beginning comments from an interested viewer. But don’t take my word for
it. The next time you dodge reserved readings or problem sets by taking a Union break—and I know you all
are guilty of this—take the time to respond to the visual expressions of some of Davidson’s very own. If you
missed their reception and opening last Friday evening, I encourage you to track down the artists and discuss with them
one-on-one what their work is all about.

New Age HAIR DESIGNERS
A full-service salon specializing in men’s and women’s hairstyles.
SouthLake Shopping Center Suite 106
Next to Lonestar — 892-3067
Now carrying 8 lines of products.

Now Hiring: BAKERS & Cashier/Servers
BRUEGGER'S BAGELS
* Advancement Opportunities Available
* Great Starting Wages and Benefits
* Totally committed to freshness
Apply in person at:
South Lake Shopping Center (Torrance Chapel Rd. in Cornelius)
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F

INTERNATIONAL CUISINE WITH A SOUTHERN TWIST
259 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina 28115
704-663-1859

COSTA RICA
Study Paradise this Spring
The Organization for Tropical Studies in partnership with Duke University offers a field-oriented semester abroad program in tropical ecology and
Latin American culture. Students earn 16 credit hours in biology, environmental science, and Spanish language & culture. Credits may be
transferred from Duke.
* hands-on biology
* cultural immersion
* field trips
* independent projects
* remote field sites
* research
* exotic wildlife
For brochure and application materials, contact:
Organization for Tropical Studies, Duke University
Box 90633, Durham NC 27708-0633
Tel: (919) 684-5774; E-mail: <nao@acpub.duke.edu>
http://www.ots.duke.edu
Application deadline for 1998 Spring semester is October 15, 1997.
