12 children are such reprehensible creatures. Not only are their manners disgusting and behavior rude, but they are only concerned
with their own selfish needs and desires. Snobby little imps — that’s all they are. All you ever hear is
me, me, me. Any sense of altruism is lost on these creatures as they steal from their neighbors and constantly
put their needs before those of the group. It isn’t until well past the adolescent years that they learn mankind’s
noblest pursuit — helping others. After all, everyone knows that there is no “I” in “TEAM.” All men are created
equal, and even if they are not, let us make sure that no one is superior. We must eradicate all
semblance of individuality at an early age by teaching our children the truth of the world. All men possess a
certain intrinsic value just by being born in the shape of men, not apes. The mental content inside a human
body is irrelevant. A great brain or a great talent or a magnificent character are of no importance compared to
the intrinsic value we all possess as humans. Bring down the ceiling, I say — level that playing field. We
must work together as a unit and give up our selfish desires. Heed the teachings of the late Mother Teresa
— and future Saint Teresa — who devoted her life to the poor of India and, indeed, the world, expecting
nothing in return. No matter that she accepted money from questionable donors or that she ran clinics that operated below
accepted standards. She gave up her individual desires and will to her God and man alike. Mother Teresa was a
model citizen — one whom we should all emulate. Damn the egotist that pursues his own ambitions. All arrogant egotists
who wish to have their own way must be stopped. You may not believe it, but there are those among
us who walk around with a defiant air, in their utter selfishness, as if their egocentrism is as important as
eating or breathing. They walk around as if they cannot be harmed, indifferent to suffering, because they do not believe
in suffering. Every man must obey his higher power. These egotists snub our God and our humanity. I can only
hope these individuals see the error of their ways and come back to the forgiving arms of their brethren. Let
us wipe out all sense of the individual and place our importance on the unit — mankind. Equality, equality, equality
— that is the answer to our problems today. No child deserves to be an individual when we see the
advantages of a collective mind. Teach your children at an early age to submit to the collective will so that
they may have productive lives and maybe — just maybe — they will reach sainthood like the venerable Mother Teresa.

What happened to us? I haven’t learned a lot in the hallowed halls of Chambers yet, but already I notice
a disturbing trend in the way that the College perceives the surrounding community and vice-versa. Last Saturday, as a member
of a small discussion group, I headed toward “downtown” Davidson to pose questions to unsuspecting members of the town. The
first couple of citizens whom we asked at the post office gave quick answers and hustled off to their box.
Next, a woman answered our questions, commented on the town and its situation, and then said that the College’s involvement
in the community has dropped off noticeably in the past few years. I was shocked. Davidson College not involved? Does
she know that we organize 21 “Reach-Out” programs for the specific benefit of the town of Davidson, Charlotte, and the
area’s residents? Does she know that all freshmen must participate in a service project during Orientation to help the Davidson
community? Has she read the “active lives of service” clause found in the school’s mission statement? Does she know that
the College holds multiple fairs and organizational meetings for service work, so that it is practically impossible not to get
involved in some capacity? Does she realize that members of the faculty and the college community serve on several town
committees? She obviously didn’t, and still doesn’t. Two days passed, and I forgot all about the misinformed woman, but the
issue of the College and the town’s relationship did not go away. I discovered on Monday that, when the school
installed the “pass-card system” on the dorms and other buildings on campus due to an increased number of break-ins and
thefts, public use of campus facilities dropped to virtual nonexistence. The College had and should always have student safety as
the core of its focus. But actions like the requirement of photo identification in the name of student security all
but eliminate unaccompanied visits to the Davidson campus. The broader community that the college once fostered has split into “our”
school and “their” town. Safety and a lack of clear communication — not purposeful neglect — have driven what was
once a relationship of unity to where it stands today. While this institution has an obligation first to itself, we
— students, faculty, and administration — must understand that “our world” does not end at Main Street. As a part
of a larger community,The College has the power and capacity to reverse any separation of school and town. The projects
and services in place today do indeed help develop and facilitate a healthy association between Davidson students and the townspeople.
But communication remains the key to the reestablishment of a greater community, the elimination of misperception, and the restoration of
“us.”

Haven’t a clue as to what to do? Cool. My dad forwarded to me a rather provocative e-mail this summer—a
reprint of Kurt Vonnegut’s commencement address at MIT. Unfortunately, it is too long to reprint here, but I'll highlight a
couple of my favorite parts.

Don't feel guilty if you don’t know what you want to do with
