Che Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

MONDAY, MARCH 24, 1997

VOLUME 88, NUMBER 22

Nesbit named as new

trustee chairman

By Mary Clare Jalonick
Editor Emerita

After the death of Chairman of the Board E. Craig Wall two weeks ago, Vice Chairman Olin Nesbit assumed the
chairmanship.

Nesbit, of Charlotte, graduated from Davidson in 1963 and has served on the board for two terms. He was elected
as an alumni trustee after serving as the president of the Board of Visitors.

He will attempt to manage business as usual after the loss of his good friend. “Craig and I were very
close friends. We are still kind of numb and in shock, but we need to move on and do what
we can.”

He says that little will change as he takes over the top post. “Craig and I worked together closely... we
have the same management-type strategy.”

The Board will hold a meeting next April, at which he says the top priority will be the presidential search.
“[The search] is top on the agenda, there is no question about that. John Kuykendall will be tough to replace,
but I am optimistic,” says Nesbit.

When asked if the committee is considering the appointment of an interim head, Nesbit says they don’t plan on it.
However, they have made no definite decisions.

Nesbit is officially chair until December 31 of this year. At that point, the Board will form a nominating committee
to consider possibilities for the succeeding chair.

He says the familiarity of those on the executive committee will smooth over this rocky and busy period for the
Board. “A lot of us have been together for a long time, so that will make the transition easier.”

He emphasizes his respect for Wall. “He was a wonderful man and I will do my best to continue.”

Drinkin’ and Dukin’
Outpost may hire security

By Ann Culp
News Editor

Manager of the Union Outpost Dennis Rice is tired of breaking up fights. He wrote a Letter to the Editor
in the February 10 issue of The Davidsonian asking students "to hold onto the dignity they possess and let [his]
staff have theirs,” but the next weekend he acted as mediator again.

Now, Richard Terry, Director of Auxiliary Services, is considering hiring an extra policeman to monitor the Outpost on Thursday, Friday,
and Saturday nights from 12 pm to 3 am. Any hiring could happen as soon as this weekend.

“Physical altercations have become such a problem that campus police feel like they need some extra help,” says Terry.

Rice has been working at the Outpost since it opened five years ago. “Everyone comes from a party at one
time. They are drunk, belligerent, cuss a lot, and shove a lot,” says Rice. “The workers catch a lot of
flack. It’s not exactly a rewarding job financially and the workers like to think that they help out students so
they aren’t driving around a lot. After a couple comments, the job loses its luster.”

The decision to hire another officer will mean the extra cost of $75 a night going toward a campus service
that only makes enough money to cover its present expenses.

“The Outpost is not a money maker; spending the extra money for a police officer will mean subsidizing this program
with money from other programs,” says Terry.

In addition, Terry is concerned that students who are not creating conflicts will not come to the Outpost anymore “because
they don’t want to run into the jerks.”

He urges other students to support a better weekend environment at the Outpost.

“If the current state of behavior is acceptable to other members of the community, then maybe we can’t have the
Outpost at all,” Terry says.

BACKDRAFT

When life turns up the heat... Sophomore Bo Fitzgerald was one of six Davidson student volunteer firemen participating in a
training burn of a home on Watson Street on Saturday. The other five students were junior Eric Borgstrom, freshman Greg
Filak, sophomore Josh Glazer, and seniors Andy Morris and Josh Peklo.

Bill Giduz

Ordinary people; extraordinary conference

19th Century Studies meeting draws scholars from across the nation

By Randy Hartwell
Editor-in-Chief

For most people, “living in the past” would not be considered an attribute. But the scholars from colleges and universities
nationwide who attended the 16th annual 19th Century Studies Association (NCSA) meeting that convened here last weekend might call that
a compliment.

The association is interdisciplinary, and the meeting’s theme “Ordinary People: Everyday Lives” allowed scholars from several different fields to present
papers documenting cultural phenomena of the 1800’s previously considered somehow mundane or insignificant. Works with such topics as “Neurasthenia in
the Late 19th Century,” “Posters in Fin-de-Siecle Paris,” and “Cross-dressing Women Soldiers in the Civil War” were among the weekend’s
offerings.

French professor Carole Kruger, who edits the NCSA’s newsletter and served as the location director of the conference, says that
approximately 100 scholars attended.

The conference opened Thursday evening, with the keynote address of the meeting given by Patricia Mainardi, Broeklundian Professor at Brooklyn
College and The Graduate School of the City University of New York. Mainardi is a professor of 19th century French
art, and her lecture, “Is Seeing Believing?” provided insight into her years of research of 19th century French engravings and
lithographs. Mainardi suggested that even though the relative cheapness of lithography (compared to engraving) made it an art form primarily
associated with the lower classes,

See Conference on page 6

NEWS BRIEFS.............. 2 First Class Mail
ELSEWHERE................ 6 U.S. Postage Paid
CROSSWORD............... 6 Permit #1
EDITORIAL ................. 7 Davidson, NC 28036
OPINIONS.................... 8

ARTS & LIVING.......... 10

SPORTS
