4 THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1997

Koestner discusses ways to handle date rape on a college campus

Critique from page 1

itself whispers “drive me,” Norma is still legally accountable if she drinks and drives.” Similarly, when both Norm and Norma are drunk, and Norm starts throwing his clothes off, if Norma acts on his invitation she will be held accountable when Norm wakes up the next morning and feels taken advantage of. “It may seem unfair,” Koestner said, “but as the initiator, it is Norma’s responsibility to make sure that, number one, the potential recipient is capable of giving consent and, number two, that he is giving consent.” In this case, Norm was not capable of giving his consent because he was drunk.

Koestner also cited the Davidson definition of rape as problematic. According to the handbook, “rape is forced sexual intercourse that is perpetrated against the will of the victim; it occurs if one person uses force or the threat of force to coerce another, regardless of the relationship between them.” Koestner did commend the use of the word “coerce,” which, unlike the word “seduction,” indicates that the initiator had only his or her own satisfaction in mind. In addition, she suggested that “force” should read “intimidation: uses physical size or strength,” and that “threat” should not only include threats of force, but a range of threats such as, “if you don’t have sex with me, I'll tell everyone you’re HIV positive,” or “if you don’t have sex with me I'll break up with you.” Davidson’s policy would currently have to be reinterpreted in each case regarding rape using threats.

Not only is it important to revise the policy, which will happen in the near future according to Dean of Students Tom Shandley, but Davidson must also scrutinize the procedure by which the policy is applied. When a student files a formal complaint, one of their options is to have the complaint adjudicated by the Sexual Misconduct Board. This board is comprised of three Honor Council members, three faculty, and an administrator. Koestner said that other options should be available. “Most rapes occur freshman year between the first day and the first break. How would you feel if you knew that a professor who could potentially teach one of your major requirements was going to sit in at your rape trial?” She suggested that a one-on-one hearing be made available. The accuser and accused are also allowed to have others present at the hearing according to current procedures, but to what end. Can an alleged rapist who plays a sport have all his or her teammates at the hearing? Can alternate arrangements be made if the accuser does not want to sit in the same room with the accused? Does the board vote have to be unanimous? Will the board hear cases that occur off campus, or over spring break or summer vacation?

Koestner noted that in addition to a lack of clarity, Davidson procedure does not address the initial response to an assault victim. Resident Advisors do not have more than a paragraph on rape response in their guidebooks. “Everyone in the institution should have a step-by-step checklist,” said Koestner. “Anonymous reports should be sent to the coordinator, who does a kind of case management. This lets you have an ongoing study of sexual assault circumstances on your campus and establishes better reporting.” There are numerous changes to the policy and procedure which need to be addressed. Only through revision and “practicing scenario after scenario after scenario” will they function at Davidson.

Rape statistics according to Katie Koestner:
* 1 in 8 men is raped in his lifetime
* 1 in 20-100 men report being raped
* Male rape victims are generally between the ages of 5-13
* 98% of the men raped are raped by heterosexual men
* 1 in 4 women is raped in her lifetime1 in 10 women report being raped
1 in 6 college women is assaulted during her college years
Female victims are generally between the ages of 16-24
Every 21 hours, someone is raped on a college campus
84% of rapes involve a victim who knows the perpetrator
90% of sexual assaults involve alcohol
In only 2-5% of cases does the accuser lie
1 out of 100 rapists go to prison
2-3 years is the average sentence for convicted rapists
Most rapists are white men
Most men are not rapists

By Jessica Goodson, News Editor

Katie Koestner presented: “Someone was Raped” Wednesday, a workshop on rape response which was mandatory for Resident Advisors and Hall Counselors. Georgia Ringle expects to coordinate an additional first responders unit with which rape victims may seek support. Koestner’s workshop aimed to prepare responders in the event that someone should confide in them, “I was raped.” What follows is basically a checklist that a first responder would use to aid a rape victim. Students need not hold the official title of first responder, but may find themselves in a situation where they too might need to advise a hallmate, friend, or sibling.

The initial responsibility of a first responder is to be a listener. A responder should have a place in mind where he or she can listen to a potential victim. It should be quiet, private, and located on neutral ground. He or she should ask the victim if they would like to go somewhere in particular but be able to suggest a place just in case. A responder should have a “do not disturb” sign and should turn off the ringer on the telephone. Sitting about three feet away from the victim, a first responder should offer—not request—“if you need a hug, I’m here for you.” Phrasing it this way makes contact available to the victim, but he or she doesn’t feel pressured to respond immediately.

A first responder should never judge the victim or their story. What he or she says may be jumbled or selective, especially if underage drinking or drugs are involved and the victim wants to avoid legal entanglements. A first responder’s second role is as an option-provider. Presenting medical attention as an option is top priority. A first responder should explain to the victim that a rape kit can only be administered within 72 hours of the assault. Wounds are treated, and the victim is tested for pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases. The procedure takes about five hours and costs between $500 and $1,000. A responder who escorts a rape victim to the hospital should be sure to take any evidence, such as clothing, in paper rather than plastic bags. The results are kept on file for a year afterwards, but having a rape kit performed does not mean that the victim must press criminal charges or file a complaint. There is a statute of limitation of five to eight years, which means that up to eight years may pass before the victim decides to take legal action. The rape kit proves who raped the victim, but it is difficult to prove whether there was coercion in many cases. Researchers at the University of Arizona are currently developing methods which recognize certain patterns of bruising as indicative of coercion.

It is also the responder’s responsibility to present the options listed in the Handbook, such as whether the victim can change residence or classes, what kind of legal action he or she can take, and who at the school will hear his or her case. Counseling is another option which is available to the victim. The responder can strongly recommend that the victim seek counseling through the Counseling Center or peer advisors.