THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 24, 1997

Sororities...Davidson style. Sound like an oxymoron? We have the info that shows that sororities can exist within Davidson College without
disrupting the unique traditions of the school. Actually, national sororities could only complement the existing system. Sororities are more than
just social organizations. The truth of the matter is that national sororities allow their members to become a part of
a group of thousands of women looking out for women’s issues (rights, health, etc.) all over the world. As a
member, a woman is backed by thousands of women worldwide. How can we, at Davidson, deprive the women of this
campus the opportunity to become a part of this network?

What could sororities bring to Davidson College? We want to emphasize that they would in NO way compete with the
eating house system. The national sororities are very willing to work with our system. Every group we have talked to
recognizes the eating house system as an integral part of the Davidson tradition. The sororities really want to come to
Davidson. The sororities that we have talked to see the eating house system as a longstanding tradition that has a
very strong background that no one on this campus wants to see altered. Therefore, the sororities realize that if they
want to survive on our campus, then they have to accommodate our system. Many have emerged at schools with longstanding
traditions of eating houses and have found no problem with coexistence. The sororities just scale back their activities so as
not to interfere with those of the eating houses.

We used Princeton University as an example of the possibility of coexistence between the eating houses/clubs and sororities. All of
the sororities that we have spoken to cite Princeton as a parallel for us because there the sororities have come
in and adapted so as not to step on the toes of the eating clubs. It is also necessary to
note that competition is irrelevant because eating houses and sororities would have completely different functions. We all join our eating
houses for two primary reasons: to eat the great food with our friends and attend the fun parties where alcoholic
beverages are served. Sororities cannot serve alcohol. The rules are very strict and sororities are very closely supervised by their
nationals. Therefore, they could never interfere with the function of the eating house system since they would not possess either
of the two elements that form the basis for the existence of the eating houses. It could also be established
from the outset that the sororities would not have houses. Therefore, the sororities could never serve as the social focus
for women on campus. Not only would they not compete with the eating houses, but the presence of national sororities
would enhance relations within and between the eating houses. Sororities would be comprised of women from all over the school,
bound by ties of sisterhood. The bonds that would be created would cross eating house lines and allow Davidson women
to create close friendships with women from different classes, different freshman halls, and especially different eating houses. With sororities, the
freshman women involved are given the easy opportunity of meeting women besides those on their freshman halls, or besides the
ten women they joined their eating house with. It is really true that the friends women make freshman year are
highly determined by who lives on their freshman halls. The way the system for women is set up now, it
is very hard for freshman women to get out and make new friends on other halls. The men at Davidson
have no such restriction. Sororities would give women on this campus the same opportunity as men.

The possibility of sororities creating cliques within the eating houses or acting as feeder groups into the eating houses is
not an issue. As they stand now, the eating houses are not free from cliques. It is human nature to
bond together with people who are like oneself. The sororities would actually serve to facilitate the creation of friendships outside
women’s established circles of friends within their eating houses or without. As it has worked at other schools that have
eating houses and sororities, the coexistence of the two has allowed women to meet more people and has benefited all
involved. Rush would be established so as not to affect freshmen women’s decision in Self-Selection. Just as an aside...has the
existence of sports teams as feeder groups into the eating houses (i.e. the field hockey team into Rusk, the lacrosse
team into Warner Hall) caused problems thus far?

Okay, we mentioned it, the dreaded word, RUSH. We know that many have the preconceived notion that rush is a
catty experience that makes everyone involved miserable. The National Panhellenic Conference (NPC), which oversees national sororities, has recently instigated a
policy that they call "no-frills rush." The theme parties, banquets, and events that many women see as "catty" the NPC
deems "unnecessary" and "not real world." The NPC has been begging the bigger schools to conform to the ideal of
a more laid-back rush. We at Davidson could very easily maintain this ideal because of the quality of our student
body. We could create a low-key rush in which women could have more fun than stress. The primary aspect that
NPC wants to advocate regarding rush is fairness and ensuring that everyone who wants to is given the opportunity to
join a sorority. The financial obligations are minimal and the benefits are infinite. The sororities sponsor programs that focus on
issues relevant to the success of women in the real world. They place a high importance on scholarship and service.
Members of sororities only begin to reap the benefits of their membership when they graduate from college. The network is
incredible. Membership is immensely helpful in establishing job connections after college. Sororities on campus would really just serve the function
of another option for women. They would act more like clubs that foster the creation of close bonds of friendship
and support among the women of this campus. At this point the numbers are not too important. We have enough
women interested to bring two sororities to Davidson.have been reaping the benefits of their national fraternities for decades. If the
women have this easy opportunity to get in on the game, why not take it? We, as women of Davidson,
should have the right to the same option as men, both during our Davidson experience and after. Even if you
are not in agreement with the idea of sororities at Davidson, is it fair to deprive the women of this
campus the opportunity to reap the benefits? Davidson has the longstanding tradition of brotherhood, but come on ladies, it’s been
25 years, why not start creating some real sisterhood?

Greg Gawicon

Springtime, Sunshine, and Short Skirts

A while ago, I was sitting outside with a couple of the boys, enjoying the warm sun and getting over
a mean hangover. A girl walked by wearing a skirt that put a twinkle in my eye and a song
in my heart. I leaned back in my chair, took a sip of Stroh’s, grinned, and said, “Y’all, I love
this time of year.” Now, if you’re a guy, I’m sure that you understand exactly what I mean, but if
you’re one of my female readers, you might be a tad offended at this point. If you are, I dare
you to tell me that you don’t enjoy seeing some hunk confidently walking by in a pair of shorts which
reveal that he’s got more than a pair of broomsticks hiding under his Duck Heads all winter long. Don’t try
to pull any of that double-standard crap on me. Whether you’re a guy or girl, if you tell me you
just don’t get it, you’re either repressed, in which case you’re lying to yourself about how you feel, or you’re
not repressed and therefore lying to everybody else.

Anyway, as I sat out there meditating on how kind the good Lord is to give us such a lovely
work of art as the female form, my thoughts drifted to the way guys and girls relate around here. The
one conclusion I have reached over the years is that things are whacked out to such a degree that saying
they’re effed up beyond belief is a gross understatement. By and large, single people here don’t go out on dates,
except for the occasional semi-formal or cautious cup of coffee that’s so tame it could never be misconstrued as serious
in the rest of the country. When I asked a friend why things are so whacked, he—or it might have
been a she, I can’t remember—smiled and said, “What happens when you get 1600 nerds together in one place?”

As we all know, instead of acting mature, plenty of people just get smashed and hook up. About a month
ago, I heard a couple of guys talking about this. The first guy, whom I dislike if the truth be
told, said, “So, are you hook-up buddies or what?” The other guy replied, “No, it’s more serious than that. Sometimes
we talk during the week.” Y’all, just to set the record straight, “Why Don’t We Get Drunk and Screw” is
a parody of a Conway Twitty song, not a call to arms.

In the movie The Philadelphia Story, the leading lady—Katherine Hepburn, I think—gets really drunk, and when she wakes up the
next morning, she’s forgotten what happened the night before with Jimmy Stewart. When she asks him if they did anything,
his response is something along the lines of, “No, there are rules about that sort of thing.” Guys, in case
you aren’t familiar with the rules, here are three: If you go up and grab a girl at a party,
that’s called sexual assault. If a girl’s too drunk to make an informed decision about what she’s doing, and you
go all the way, that’s called date rape. If a girl says no and you ignore her, that’s called rape,
pure and simple. Welcome to adulthood, fellas.

Here I’ve gone and rambled, though. I was talking about the dating scene—or lack thereof—around here, wasn’t I? I’ve often
asked myself why people don’t go on dates more often. I think one reason is the utter seriousness with which
women here take going out with a guy if they plan it beforehand. Ladies, when a guy asks you out
to dinner, it means he thinks you’re attractive and wants to get to know you. It’s not a marriage proposal.
The much bigger reason that there’s not much of a dating scene seems to be that a lot of Davidson’s
men have to be all liquored up to have any self-confidence. Guys, if a girl says she doesn’t want to
go out, it’s not the end of the world, okay? If you’re afraid of having your insecure little ego burst
by a sober girl, you shouldn’t be willing to have it massaged by a drunk one. Instead of being such
a big sissy, you ought to think of a couple of the prettiest girls you know, suck in your fear,
and ask one of them out to dinner. If she thinks you seem like an okay sort, she says yes.
Then you go hang out together and see if there’s any chemistry there without the aid of the active ingredient
of Beast Lite. Let me guarantee you, having a person think you’re pretty cool when you’re both sober is a
hell of a lot more satisfying than waking up next to somebody wondering what they look like in the light.

Now I’ll admit that acting in a way that upsets the status quo is a little bit scary, but not
conforming never killed anybody. Well, if you consider the Spanish Inquisition, I guess that’s not entirely true, but it hasn’t
killed me yet. I’m sure that I sound like a condescending ess oh bee right now, and if you think
I am, that’s okay; it’s probably true. Since I am such a know-it-all, let me pull a bit of wisdom
out of the dusty vault sitting on my shoulders and end with it: Dating is fun. If you’re a guy,
go against the grain, act like you’ve got a pair, and ask a girl out. Lord have mercy, springtime doesn’t
happen every day.

Write for Opinions

Articles are welcome on any topic of interest to the Davidson community. Submit articles on Macintosh WordPerfect disks to the
Davidsonian office on the third floor of the College Union. Life without Opinions would be a mistake!
