16 _ THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1997

@ Quarterback Tommy Dugan drops back to pass in Saturday’s action. The Wildcat signal-caller completed 8-of-17 passes for 163 yards and a touchdown, and added 49 on the ground. Davidson knocked off Maryville handily at Richardson Field, beginning its season auspiciously. They will face Sewanee this weekend in the much-anticipated Centennial Game.

Photos by Sean Lutmer

Football opens with convincing win over Maryville

Wildcats, on four-game win streak, prepare for Saturday's Centennial Game

By MICHAEL J. KRUSE
Editor in Chief

One down, five to go.

The football team beat Maryville College 41-25 Saturday at Richardson Field, getting the first of six wins needed to post the program’s first back-to-back winning seasons in 38 years.

Dating back to last year, the Wildcats have now won four in a row. With a victory in this coming Saturday’s Centennial Game against Sewanee, they would start a season at 2-0 for the first time since 1979.

After a first half marred by missed opportunities — even though the Wildcats held a 17-10 advantage at intermission — Davidson blew the game open with 10 points in the first five minutes of the second and a 17-0 overall third quarter performance.

“At halftime, I just told them that we were playing good football,” coach Tim Landis said. “I said, ‘Hey, I'll take a 17-10 lead.’ They got their chins up. They committed themselves to (eliminating mistakes) and just came out and made some plays in the second half.”

And safety Donnie Johnson made perhaps the biggest of them all, intercepting a Brandon Derrick pass on Maryville’s first offensive series after halftime. The pick set up a five-yard touchdown run by Lorenzo Moll with 11:26 to go in the third quarter.

Men’s soccer wins! The youthful Wildcats, after losing their first five games of the season, captured a victory yesterday in Greensboro, beating Miami of Ohio 2-1 in overtime.

Old-timers to lead parade. The 1935 football captains, Henry A. Cathey and Cole L. Wyndham, will serve as Grand Marshals in Saturday's Centennial Parade. Football notebook, page 14.

McKillop in Beirut? Men's basketball coach Bob McKillop was offered the national coaching job in Lebanon on Wednesday. He said no.

Women’s soccer stumbles. The Wildcats faltered this week with a scoreless tie on the road against Campbell and a 2-1 loss to visiting Georgia Southern.

Football

Wildcats 41, Maryville 25

Men’s soccer

The Citadel 3, Wildcats 2
William & Mary 2, Wildcats 0
Wildcats 2, Miami of Ohio 1 (OT)

Women’s soccer

Wildcats 0, Campbell 0
Georgia Southern 2, Wildcats 1

Volleyball

Furman 3, Wildcats 1

Field hockey

Wake Forest 12, Wildcats 0
Richmond 3, Wildcats 2
Central Michigan 3, Wildcats 1
Wildcats 3, Wofford 0

“That really started it for us,” fellow safety Chad Wright said of Johnson’s interception. “And it started a downhill effect for them.”

Wright then forced a fumble on the ensuing Scot kickoff return. A 36-yard field goal by Brian Langley shortly thereafter widened the Wildcats’ lead to 27-10.

Fullback Eric Ferguson, the freshman phenom last year who began what promises to be a stellar sophomore season by gaining 107 yards rushing, capped the quarter with a 15-yard scoring scamper, making it 34-10 with 2:10 left in the period.

Speedster Roland Williams ended any comeback hopes for Maryville, blocking T.J. Emory’s punt with 7:46 to go and taking the loose ball into the end zone. The touchdown gave the Wildcats a commanding 41-17 lead.

“He told me he was going to come out today and block one,” Landis said, “and he did. He’s just a tremendous athlete. That was a big-time play right there.”

Despite outgaining the Scots 261-139 in the first 30 minutes, the Wildcats led by only a touchdown at half.

Quarterback Tommy Dugan found a wide-open Williams on a 43-yard touchdown toss, opening up the scoring and giving the Wildcats a 7-0 lead at the 3:29 mark of the first quarter.

Langley, who was perfect in his debut as a starter, converting all five extra point attempts and both field goal tries, added a 32-yard three-pointer.

See Football on page 14

The speedy Williams hauled in a 43-yard touchdown pass from quarterback Tommy Dugan to open the Wildcats’ scoring, and then blocked a punt and ran it in for a touchdown to end any Maryville hopes for victory.

@ Sophomore safety Donnie Johnson, who had a key interception in the third quarter Saturday, fields a punt.

Football

Saturday vs. Sewanee (1:30 p.m., WCGC 1270 AM, WSAT 1280 AM)

Men’s Soccer

Tomorrow @ Radford (7:00 p.m.)
Sunday vs. Furman (2:00 p.m.)

Women’s Soccer

Wednesday vs. East Carolina (7:00 p.m.)
Sunday @ Appalachian St. (2:00 p.m.)

Volleyball

vs. UNC G (7:00 p.m.)
Friday @ Radford (7:00 p.m.)
Saturday @ Winthrop (7:00 p.m.)

Field Hockey

Saturday vs. Ohio (1:00 p.m.)
Sunday vs. Ursinus (TBA)

Football vs. Sewanee
Sat. @ Richardson Field @ 1:30 p.m.

Riding a four-game win streak dating back to last season, the Wildcats go for a fifth by officially celebrating 100 years of intercollegiate football at Davidson.

A pre-game luncheon and parade, halftime festivities, and postgame dinner in Johnston Gym highlight the day’s activities.