THE DAVIDSONIAN

12 interesting reasons why going to Davidson is like flounder fishing

I was fairly excited when my friends asked me to accompany them to Long Beach for Fall Break. This was going to be my first visit to Snoop Dogg’s ghetto — you can imagine my excitement. To say the least, I was disappointed when we arrived at Long Beach, N.C., not the LBC I was longing for. Soon I came to the sad conclusion that there are no rappers in this Long Beach except for Scooter Magooter, but we'll get to him later.

Anyhow, it turns out that my buds had kept the real purpose of the trip a secret until the end. Only when we jumped in a boat outfitted with nets, lures, rods, and reels was I informed that we were going to fish for the entire duration of fall break. So there I was, stuck in a salt-stained dinghy without my Puff Daddy or my B.I.G. In total, there were nine of us — nine worthless anglers. I guess we were a rap group after all (NWA — get it!) This number, however, does not include our two worthy guides Johnson & Johnson. According to them, there is only one fish worth catching — the flounder.

"That's the skinny fish!" I said, nudging the nearest mate, as if I knew what I was talking about. Johnson & Johnson exchanged looks, communicating subconsciously the obvious fact that I was a moron.

Nevertheless, I managed to conquer my seemingly insatiable desire for the soulful tunes of 97.9 on the FM dial. Johnson & Johnson became my mentors, and I emerged as their little fishboy apprentice. Slowly I learned how to catch bait, how to navigate the skiff, how to jig the rig (or gig the tricks of the trade: jig or rig the gig, or something like that), how to drink a warm beer while fishing, and most importantly, how to eat a processed sandwich while fishing. By the end of the trip, I knew my flounder, and I knew it well.

Looking back on it all, I can’t help but notice parallels between my flounder apprenticeship and my experiences at Davidson. There are just too many eerie similarities that exist. Therefore, I must elaborate on the 12 reasons why going to Davidson is like flounder fishing. I'm talking morals here, so pay attention.

1. You could fish all day and not catch a damn thing. I can sit with a book in front of my face all day and not comprehend a single thesis, theory, sentence, word, etc.
2. Some flounder are spotted. Yes, even some students at Davidson are spotted, not because they have been swimming near the nuclear power plant, but because they are really, really sick with consumption or because they are leopards.
3. The locals are nimrods. Laugh at them. Scooter Magooter, a lifelong Long Beach resident, did not speak any form of English that I was personally familiar with, but he had a particular fancy for cussing. At Davidson, the locals are just as crazy. We have strangers roaming the campus, threatening students, asking librarians if they are the Antichrist. It doesn’t get any funnier than that.
4. If you're bored, you can always catch crabs. Here, you might catch them without even knowing it.
5. A lot of fishermen are fakes, pretending to be knowledgeable about something they are not. At Davidson, we have sports editors who think they know what it is like to be a Division I athlete.
6. Flounder scale their prey tail-end first, slowly climbing up the bait’s body. I read the end of my assigned novels first, because I don’t have the time to start at the beginning.
7. When you've got a flounder on your line, you can’t afford to give it any slack. When someone calls that I don’t like, I have my roommates tell them that I am asleep.
8. If you accidentally catch a small shark, you can smash his head on the concrete and use his stomach as bait. At Davidson, people “accidentally” buy packs of cigarettes and take them to parties to give to freshman girls.
9. Don’t take your shirt off unless you plan on getting burned. Nobody in their right mind would sign up for Literary Criticism without knowing that their brain could very well swell and explode from a syllabus more taxing than life under British colonial rule.
10. While fishing for flounder, it is helpful — perhaps even necessary — to have a net with which to cradle the Leviathan before bringing it inside the sailing vessel. I always congratulate myself on my decision to call the BTI people and tell them that my address was really somewhere in Nevada, and that they could send all of my ridiculous phone bills there if they wanted anyone to pay them.
11. If someone is taking a picture of the flounder you caught, you can make it look bigger by holding your catch closer to the camera. Buy a magnifying glass. Wait for a good grade on a paper or a test. For some, this wait could be a week or two; others might hold out several years before getting that cherished C-. Anyhow, take that paper or test and hold the magnifying glass up to the letter itself. Isn't that neat?!
12. If the flounder is less than thirteen inches long, then you are obligated by law to throw it back. At Davidson, if you buy one Coke out of the machine, but get two, then you are obligated by law to give the second one back.

Well, there you have it, a fishmonger’s guide to Davidson. I must admit that I am honored to bring into the foreground this knowledge before any of my contemporaries. It would only have been a matter of time, you see, before another ichthyophile attempted the same. Thus, my transformation from Snoop’s leash to the fish nouveau riche is complete. Who caught the biggest flounder? I did, of course.

Sean

A new form

It seems to me that my senior year in college is a lot like the middle school years all thrown together. I think I’m going through some new stage in puberty, and it’s still awkward, where I don’t know if I’m cool, don’t know if I wear the right clothes, don’t know if I have the right friends. All the things that seem to apply to a 15-year-old looking around for his buddies at a football game seem to also apply to a senior looking around for his damn future.

I went home over fall break and my parents and I had some pretty serious discussions about DUN, DUN, DUN, DUNNN — my future. “What am I going to do?” is the same question that you would ask yourself six or seven years ago — “Am I, like, cool?” And I know, I have battled with that question all my life, but am I cool enough to get a job with somebody that will actually pay me to be there? That's like saying to the middle school kid, “Hey, you can come play with us!” The kid’s eyes are all aglow because he’s going to be hanging out with the cool kids around the Eastside.

And they always had the sex-ed talks back then telling everyone that we're all different and that we mature at different times. The same goes for job counseling and Career Services, and they're saying the same thing — “your resume will work for some, but it’s really not as good as some others and not as bad as some others,” just as you really weren't as big as Jimmy or had to wear deodorant like Danny.

Where do I fit in? All you really want to do is be with everyone else and have jobs and money and security and not have to say “I’m living at home — I wasn’t cool enough — I didn’t wear the right clothes (in other words, Banana Republic and Hard Rock Cafe T-shirts, jeans jackets with buttons, and jellies are replaced with grey suits, conservative shoes and ties, short hair for everyone) so I didn’t get a job,” and buckle down in fury and frustration and make sounds of agony!

You can draw a lot of parallels between zits and grades — at least for some of us. They blemish you at the eighth grade dance, and they blemish you when looking for a job and you squeak out, “My GPA’s, uh, 0.8, sir.” Zits and grades can both blow up, and the worst is when you know they're going to be bad, but you can’t do anything about it except wait to see just how bad it’s going to be.

Although home is nice, I don’t think that any of us want to be living there after graduation rolls around. It’s kind of like hanging around at home on a Friday night in years past when everyone else was out having fun. It is different in that we all don’t want jobs, whereas back then we all wanted to...be “mature-looking.” But whatever we want, I think that I can safely say that we all want something. Some want to go on and study, some want to hit the working world running, some want to postpone a few things, but we all want something, just as we all wanted to have some cool friends and not be three feet. Puberty’s the worst, but I guess it’s not as bad the second time around; particularly since it’s fresh in my mind from last year.

THE URBAN PLUNGE: EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING

Urban Plunge raises more questions than it answers. 48 hours on the street is a humbling experience according to a packet the National Coalition for the Homeless gave our group. An Urban Plunge is: “When economically-privileged people dress down, empty their wallets, and spend time on the streets as ‘poor’ people.” Anyone can read this sentence and draw their own conclusions as to the validity of that statement. This brief definition does not encompass the ultimate purpose of the plunge, nor why I spent my fall break homeless in Washington, D.C. I couldn’t relate to nagging hunger, constant fear, social skepticism, or need on a most basic and intense level. I needed to see the “other” side. I needed to see the looks, the stares, the questioning eyes, the shame. I needed to experience the harassment, the cold. I needed in some way to feel poverty, to feel homelessness. If I thought I could have accomplished that any other way, I would not have gone. But I decided that I could not fill my need any other way. That is why I went.

For two days, thoughts raced in and out of my head, too fast to comprehend. For two days, experience, knowledge, and information came continuously from all different directions — overwhelming comprehension. I felt alive the entire time, my senses alert to all happenings around me, incidents soaking through the pores in my skin. I felt as though I was eating the richest, most fulfilling food that life could offer, and yet I could not get enough. I became supremely self-aware. But now, after two days back at Davidson, the profound thoughts have faded and with them powerful memories. The experience hasn’t and never will fade. How can I explain that in words? I tried several times during the two days to reflect, but I found that I could not write fast enough nor process my thoughts clearly enough to put down more than a few brief ideas at a time, a few brief ideas that only scratched the surface of my total experience. I had wanted to say how the Urban Plunge changed me, but I become more frustrated as the process of recollection wears on. I try to illustrate what I went through — what I learned — how I found out that I know so little about life — to explain the impact that putting faces and names with a severe social problem had on me — to convey everything. I want to, but I can’t. I try to explain, but I remember things I missed as I speak to my hallmates and those who know I went. I try to go back, to demonstrate the intensity through my words and manner. But I cannot. I say that my 48 hours humbled me. I say that panhandling dehumanized me. I say that I lost all previous identity, my Davidson identity, my middle-class identity. But they did not go through it with me, with us. The Urban Plunge has made me ask more questions than it answered. If I find it hard to readjust after only two days, how can society ask a man who has been living on the streets for more than a decade to readjust with the snap of a finger, with the opening of a door?

I did not shave until almost a day after I got back, nor did I put on deodorant. That sounds strange. It is. However, I did not want to lose what I had gained. When I shaved and when I finally put on deodorant, I cut the last physical reminders of my experience. I relegated all events to the past and into memory. I did not want to lose what I had gained. I did not want to lose what I had felt. So I try to convey knowledge to you with my words. And as you see the frustration-wracked body and exhausted eyes, I hope that you can now better understand.

The Urban Plunge became important to me months before this semester began. This summer, I decided to do an urban plunge through the National Coalition for the Homeless in Washington, D.C., and I decided to make the opportunity available to other Davidson students. As weeks passed, I found myself questioning my motives and hearing the challenge of friends and family. What could be so valuable about spending forty-eight hours living homeless that it would be worth the risks of street life?

My plan was to write a concise and well-packaged editorial after this experience. Unfortunately, the experience itself isn’t very packageable. I find that no matter how hard I try, I am only able to share a very small part of my experience with anyone. After so much reflection, I can only interpret this as evidence of the weekend’s value. I quote from last issue’s Op-Ed piece regarding the Urban Plunge: “We cannot begin to understand homelessness from watching the television news or making peanut butter sandwiches at a soup kitchen.” This was just one such statement that seemed to advocate second-hand experiences. I disagree wholeheartedly with the writers’ statements. You will never know what the concrete of a sidewalk feels like unless you have your own tactile knowledge of it. Moreover, we cannot begin to understand homelessness from watching the television news or making peanut butter sandwiches at a soup kitchen.

We are used to our books and our lectures, our computer screens and our four-walled classrooms, the academic settings in which second-hand information is poured into our minds. Surrounding ourselves with wholly new circumstances and people whom we find to be very different from ourselves spurs personal growth. Isn’t that kind of expansion of ourselves central to the lives that we share at Davidson? I struggle to place on a small section of newsprint that which I am still actively sorting through. However, in the midst of the struggle to express the value of such an out-of-classroom experience, the benefit emerges; the value of a personal experience cannot be expressed by the simple regurgitation of someone else’s words. It may be incredibly difficult to put your finger on. A profound experience cannot be placed in a simple category such as “English” or “biology” or “art” or even “homelessness” or “poverty.” I did not complete the Urban Plunge with firm conclusions about the directions that must be taken regarding homelessness. I know better than ever the complexity of the issues involved. How do I reconcile the painful situation many individuals experience with those experiences of the weekend that so richly taught me — and continue to teach me — about my own life?

We met Theresa, a grandmother who just returned to life on the streets after spending several months in jail. She has schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, two conditions that emerged or intensified after the deaths of her husband and father. What drives her from moment to moment is the next beer or bottle of liquor that she will find. She is well over twice my age, but she acts like a small child. It seems that she is not smart enough to keep herself warm at night nor to eat when her body needs food’s strength. If it weren’t for the watchful eye of a homeless acquaintance, no one would be there to control her late-night convulsions due to delirium tremens. For me, this trip is about people and the way individuals treat individuals, whether or not they own the ground they sleep on. It is about everyone’s desire for ownership of some amount of personal freedom and power. It is about having a sense of control in your own life. The issues that the Urban Plunge addresses are much larger than homelessness; likewise, homelessness is as large of an issue or category as “non-homelessness.” There are so many assumptions about life that we never examine because we have held them all of our lives. To place ourselves next to those who live by a different set of rules can remove our unquestioned assumptions and give us the beautiful freedom and urgency to question what is important and why we choose the actions that we do. For me, this is the value of the Urban Plunge.

Yes, it would have been much safer had I stayed here for break. But safety — physical, emotional, and intellectual — isn’t always the best answer.