MONDAY, APRIL 21, 1997 7 The Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors-in-Chief
RANDY HARTWELL
TERESA WHITE

Arts & Living Editor
HEATHER LARSON

Assoc. Arts & Living Editor
JEFFERY CROMARTIE

Sports Editors
WILL BRADSHAW
ANN CULP

News Editor
MICHAEL KRUSE

Associate News Editor
NARESH NAGELLA

Opinions Editors
BRAD CHASE
KRISTEN BARTCH

Cartoonist
CHRIS MOORE

Business and Circulation Mgrs.
CHLOE BROOKE
MATTHEW EIRICH

Advertising Managers
JOHN EARLY
PETER MARTIN

Photo Editor
ANNA JUDY

Web Page Managers
CLAY LENHART
ERIC PENDERGRASS

Copy Editors
BETH BACON
DAVID SANTSCHI
PENNY WALL

Associate Editor
McNEIL CARSWELL

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at: http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

Our (future) top ten

Graduates of the Class of 1947 gathered on campus last weekend to celebrate their 50th anniversary reunion. It is likely
that much has changed, anticipated or not, since their years as undergraduates here. We thought about things we would like
to see at Davidson for our 50th anniversary reunions. By 2047, we would like to see (in no particular order):

10) Tuition bills commensurate with federal rates of inflation, value of the dollar, and actual costs incurred by the College.
9) An atmosphere that allows minority students, faculty, and staff the chance to live in the College community, not in
a fishbowl.
8) A financial aid system that awards scholastic and academic achievement as much as athletic prowess.
7) Art that is reflective, not decorative.
6) Truly co-ed residence halls, ending the division between the sexes that endures from orientation to graduation.
5) A comfy neighborhood bar, priced for student budgets.
4) An athletic program tailored for what Davidson is, not what it would have itself appear.
3) Professors given tenure as much for student appreciation as for departmental evaluation.
2) Next to the crosses on Chambers Lawn, Stars of David, crescents, and statues of Buddha and Vishnu around a
zen rock garden.
1) Each other.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per
student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.
Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the
editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35 per
year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

I am writing in response to Eric Sapp’s latest crusade, printed in last week’s Davidsonian, this time coming in the
form of an epistle. Upon reading the letter, I was reminded of an argument between academics in the New York
Review of Books. One scholar replied to the irrational, angry, and poorly-articulated words of another by beginning his response with
the caveat: “It is difficult to argue with a scream of rage.” And so it is.

In relating this incident, I do not mean to equate Eric Sapp with any sort of academia or learning. Rather,
it is meant to address an essential irony of Mr. Sapp’s letter. Mr. Sapp writes angrily, “as The Davidsonian has
become more opinionated and one-sided in its ‘news’ reporting, I am sure that many readers take its stories with a...grain
of salt.” The editor’s note following Sapp’s condemnation effectively eviscerates the content of his argument, so I will spend no
time on that. Even given Mr. Sapp’s skill in literal interpretation of text, I will excuse that “grain of salt”
comment as a mistake. You can’t mean that you have been taking everything in the news section of The Davidsonian
as literal truth, Mr. Sapp? That would mean you have not been reading critically. I would hope that all readers
of all texts would read them critically, even readers of news sections. If one expects complete objectivity in journalism, or
any sort of writing, then one must prepare oneself for some serious disillusionment. Why don’t we start with the complaint
voiced by Mr. Sapp? I wonder, would Mr. Sapp have been so angry if The Davidsonian had printed, in its
news section, an article stating recent findings which point to the possibility that Darwin was wrong about evolution? Unless Mr.
Sapp has had an epiphany since the second semester of his freshman year, he would probably be ecstatic that The
Davidsonian was finally printing the truth. Ah, but it would not be truth now would it? The point is that
truth is relative and that is why we read critically.

Eric Sapp’s letter is the most recent and most glaringly stupid of a series of missives making comment about the
alleged politicization of The Davidsonian. Ideologues and dogmatists, like Mr. Sapp, do not argue (and by arguing I mean using
actual evidence to support what is otherwise conjecture) against the content of an article unless it serves their own needs.
That is fine and to be expected. But be sure to realize what you are doing, Mr. Sapp, because if
you beg for objectivity then you might have to abandon those moldering platitudes and maudlin clichés with which you seem
to have so much facility.

Kristen Richardson ’97

Save Davidson wetlands

To the Editors:

I was appalled that there was no discussion of the town of Davidson keeping the 18 acres of pristine land
it owns along Beaty Street at the commissioner’s meeting this week. Many residents share this concern, but were not able
to present the point of view at the meeting. Instead, it appears that a sale of the land to developers
is a “done deal.” This beautiful land should be preserved as a vital community resource, not to mention a natural
resource, for our children and grandchildren. Once this natural area is gone from our town, it will be irreplaceable. If
the land has to be sold, the only developer who proposed to keep the entire wetlands pond there intact in
its natural state was PMH Associates/Peter Hubicki. If the town does not keep the land or sell it to the
Nature Conservancy (or sell it to Davidson College!), I urge it to sell it to the one willing to preserve
the largest part of the property and the pond in its natural state, PMH.

Yours truly,
Paul Arkton
978 Shearer Road

Davidsonian t-shirts will be worth much more than their present low price of $10 by 2047. Act now! Your low-risk
investment could yield high returns.
