THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1997 - 5

Chambers finally to start carding
By AINSLEY HINES
Staff Writer

Chambers is going CAT-card. Davidson’s general purpose academic center will join its science buildings and the Visual Arts Center in requiring card access after a certain hour.

The Chambers Building’s new “safety doors” will now also have CAT card readers next to them. The readers have been installed at the north and south ends, plus the door by the elevator. Unsure of the exact times, Mr. Philip Cashion, director of Operation and Management, predicts that the doors will automatically lock at 6:00 pm and reopen at 7:00 am. Half of the necessary wiring has already been installed and should be finished in two weeks. Cashion foresees the system operating by the time students return from spring break.

The primary reason for installing them is to “make it a lot safer for students studying at night,” according to Cashion. Having card accessed doors will prevent outsiders from being able to enter Davidson buildings after hours. Cashion explains that there are often people from outside the campus who mess up bulletin boards and disturb displays. With the card access, he hopes that “we can prevent unwanted guests.”

Correction: Transfer student Christopher Hayes and International Student Nicolas Fuchsius are 21. They were pictured in the January 27 edition as freshmen. We apologize for the confusion and the error.

Consumer Protection Committee: Monitoring campus monopolies
By STEPHEN CEFALU
Staff Writer

Teddy Roosevelt would be proud: two students have started the Consumer Protection Committee to prepare an evaluative report on all business monopolies that operate on the Davidson College campus.

The committee was founded earlier this year by Lucian Dervan, a Davidson junior and Student Government Association (SGA) representative. It intends to have its report ready for presentation to the SGA by the end of the current spring semester.

Dervan and committee co-chair Toh Hean Ch’ng, a Davidson sophomore, have a three-fold agenda for the Consumer Protection Committee (CPC): to investigate business monopolies on campus, to provide full disclosure of the findings to students, and to recommend any necessary courses of action to protect the interests of students in the college’s business monopoly partnerships.

Most recently the structure of the CPC has been revamped to accommodate several separately functioning subcommittees. Some monopolies these respective sub-groups have targeted include BTI, the Union Cafe and Vail Commons, laundry services and local banks, the college bookstore, and college services.

Each subcommittee meets weekly to discuss investigative findings and formulate strategies for ensuring the highest quality of service from College business partners. “Our main priority,” says Ch’ng, “is keeping students informed about the way monopolies do business here.”

The CPC’s subcommittees are currently in the process of electing head representatives. CPC co-chairs, Dervan and Ch’ng, who monitor each subcommittee meeting, say CPC members have thus far shown a great deal of enthusiasm and diligence in their work.

The CPC co-chairs are still actively recruiting new committee members as well as input from students at large. Students who wish to join the CPC can do so by signing the membership roll posted within the front lobby of the Chambers building.

Campolo crusades for Christian compassion
By ANN CUP
News Editor

Tony Campolo came to Davidson last Tuesday and Wednesday plugged as an evangelist speaking on homosexuality and parties. He left as a man with a message of healing and love.

Campolo recognized his Italian Baptist roots with humor. “The difference between a Baptist and a terrorist is that you can negotiate with a terrorist,” he says.

The first meeting was titled “Two Sides of a Christian’s View on Homosexuality.” These two Christians happened to be married. “At the turn of the century, the major issues facing America were immigration and an influx of Catholicism,” said Campolo. “Now they are...abortion and homosexuality. We [Campolo and his spouse] want to demonstrate that it is possible for everyone to have a strong difference of opinion and not get a divorce.” The Campolos agreed that homosexual orientation is not chosen, homosexual people should not have to be in the closet to be in the Body of Christ, and the term homosexual lifestyle is a misnomer because there are many homosexual lifestyles. However, Mr. Campolo believes that “homosexual behavior is wrong.”

The second meeting was called “The Kingdom of God is a Party: Having Priorities that Matter.” According to Campolo, the Berlin Wall might read: “We came, we saw, we did a little shopping,” if it was any reflection of the twentieth century. “We are so efficient at producing stuff that we have to make sure that people buy it,” said Campolo. “How do you get people who have all the stuff they need to buy more stuff they don’t need?” To convince people, advertising by companies such as Coca-Cola has identified with the deepest spiritual, psychological, and social needs people have. Creating a false sense of fulfillment, a deadness pervades the world. “A can of beer becomes fulfillment, friendship, ecstasy,” says Campolo. “We don’t have time for love, we certainly don’t have time for God.”

One needs times of “quiet surrender to Jesus,” says Campolo. “We all have a dark side, and when Jesus connects with us out of Calvary, he absorbs that dark side. When Jesus explodes inside of you, the kingdom of God is a party.” Campolo believes that “when the spirit possesses you, you will have energy. There is a joy about life because the deadness is gone.”

Nearing the end of his lecture, Campolo challenged “the kids” of the audience to work for God. “You've got to get a feeling for the poor and down-trodden because that’s where Jesus is felt,” he says. Calling for a commitment to this work, he continues, “Let’s get visionary, let’s do something bold. Give me the summer at least.”

Campolo’s final message was the example of his own faith. “I can’t argue you into the Kingdom of God. I can make it reasonable, but then it’s just as reasonable to be an atheist,” says Campolo. “All I can do is bear witness because I have invited Jesus to invade me, cleanse me, and release in me the spirit.”

Campolo created the Evangelical Association for the Promotion of Education which contributes to five organizations. Through these groups, he runs several programs including schools for children in government housing projects in Philadelphia and slave children in Haiti. “Almost from the beginning, I was speaking on the road,” says Campolo. “I became a pastor at 19. Now, I do a good bit of traveling overseas. People in other countries still want to hear me because they don’t know me as well.” Because Campolo feels that he has deep convictions and he wants to share and is able to speak, he has carried his message to countries like South Africa, the Philippines, and Germany. “I would like students to realize just how much Jesus is alive. They can have a personal and transforming relationship with Jesus which translates into a radical lifestyle of service to the oppressed and poor. Being a Christian makes you committed to social change,” says Campolo.

FREE T-SHIRT + $1000
Credit Card fundraisers for fraternities, sororities & groups. Any campus organization can raise up to $1000 by earning a whopping $5.00/VISA application. Call 1-800-932-0528 ext. 65. Qualified callers receive FREE T-SHIRT.