NE WS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1997

Lyrical slam dancing
New York Poets perform verbal gymnastics
By Erica Rissing & Heather Roote
Guest Writers

The New York Poets performed an array of spoken word pieces to an enthusiastic audience on Saturday night. Members of
the troupe included Emily XYZ, Myers Bartlett, Everton Sylvester, Samantha Coerbell, and Hal Sirowitz. Two students, Jennifer (Rufus) McGillan and
Cintra Pollack, each read one of their own poems which they had shared at the poets’ workshop earlier in the
afternoon. After relating her grandfather’s statement that poetry was the only thing worth doing, Pollack read her poem off of
a napkin, adding to the spontaneity of the evening.

This spirit was manifested in the audience’s response to the narrative and conversational style, showing their enthusiasm with open questions,
laughter, and comments. For example, Sirowitz’s repeated line “Mother Said” encouraged the audience to join in and try to predict
exactly when the poet would say it next. In the workshop, Sirowitz explained he intended his poems to reach out
to everyone, and most everyone could relate to the stereotypical nagging mother. After calling himself a stand-up poet, Sirowitz revealed
timing as the key to his humor, saying, “I work with silence the way musicians work with sounds.”

Bartlett and XYZ performed pieces for two voices, written in two columns, one for each speaker, but the works cannot
convey in writing the way those two voices overlap, go solo, or are in chorus with each other when spoken,
creating a pulsing rhythm. The power of the work could only be experienced by hearing it performed; it is not
meant as a written art form, but as part of the new genre of poetry that is considered “spoken word.”
XYZ, the author of these pieces, explained the essence of the works as sounds and words that are communicated to
the audience and the artists, and she considers herself not a poet but a performer. As she stated, “Put it
this way: this year we are coming out with a record, not a book.” XYZ feels this gives her work
a certain immediacy that written words don’t have. She is not concerned with pleasing an audience.

Anna Fenton Hathaway McCutchen, and father David Hoffman, the Sprocket trombonists. Four play in Hodson
By Wesley Goldsberry
Staff Writer

The biggest event of the year for sackbut enthusiasts arrived on Wednesday night. The much-anticipated Davidson College Trombone Quartet recital,
as advertised by a creative and elaborate flyer campaign masterminded by the performers themselves, featured seniors Steve Duncan and Ethan
McCutchen, junior Lewis Hoffman, and his father David Hoffman. The ensemble played an eclectic array of pieces, ranging from music
of the late Renaissance through the ragtime and swing styles of the early 20th Century.

The variety of literature, combined with the soothing yet powerful sound of the brass, kept the audience enthralled throughout the
performance. The first half was highlighted by a Gabrieli Sonata and the Brahms arrangement of “Es ist ein Ros entsprungen,”
although one member of the audience found the final resolution of J.S. Bach’s Contrapunctus IX so moving that she exclaimed,
“That was beautiful!” amid shivers.

The excerpts from Quatre Pièces by Jean-Michel Defaye, the sole composition of the ten performed works that was originally written
for four trombones, showcased a high level of technical proficiency from both the students and from “Papa Naked” Hoffman, a
graduate of the Manhattan Institute of Music. Following intermission, the quartet, dressed in black from head to foot, demonstrated such
an impressive aptitude of stylistic sensitivity that they were able to bring even the music of Anton Bruckner to life
(Adagio from his Symphony No. 7). Two works of Mendelssohn and Debussy were followed by a couple of ragtime melodies,
with Ethan and Lewis briefly lending vocals to Joplin’s “Tiger Rag.”

The recital will probably be the group’s first and last annual performance at Davidson (as Duncan informed the audience). When
asked if they enjoyed performing in Hodson Hall, however, Lewis responded for the group, stating, “Word.” The sentiments of the
audience were emphatically similar.academic or future audience; she wants direct contact with her audience in order to make poetry alive,
accessible, and acceptable for 20th Century Americans. The group emphasizes changing the perception of poetry from stuffy and academic to
its definition as a democratic experience that is relevant to society as a whole. The audience seemed to agree, with
one member stating, “I think it was a hell of a lot more entertaining than most people’s conception of a
poetry reading.” In addition to their exceptional performance techniques, the troupe’s diction, structure, and subject matter were a hit with
the audience. The poets used vernacular language, including slang and obscenities, to create long narratives that frequently employed the use
of catalogues. Almost ballad-like, their use of repeated lines lent power and form to the pieces. Using their work as
a vehicle for social commentary, Myers Bartlett and Emily XYZ chanted XYZ’s poetry. Emily Smith's poems spoke about the issues
of racism, sexism, violence, and economic inequality by describing sleazy clubs, hostile city streets, “f—ed up” love triangles, and obnoxious
yuppies.

After two hours had mysteriously disappeared, the poets concluded the night with a poem dedicated to people who are afraid
of sharing their inner selves with others for fear of being misunderstood. “If they don’t get it, it’s all right,”
XYZ and Bartlett chanted. “Don’t be scared of what’s inside,” sang out Bartlett, and XYZ responded, “Don’t be afraid to
blow your own mind.”

By Jit WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

Through “partnerships” within the Davidson community, the Ada Jenkins Center is being renovated to create, in the words of its
executive director Bonnie Brown, what should be a “safe, welcoming, useful, and fun” community center. Situated in the northern part
of Mecklenburg County, the town of Davidson is somewhat isolated from many governmental services such as health care, social services,
and job skills training. Ideally, the Ada Jenkins Center would house many such programs. A “Life Skills Room” will offer
information and training in areas such as job hunting, home finances, high school equivalency programs, and computer training. Three major
nutrition programs will share the “Nutrition Coalition Center”: Loaves and Fishes, which provides crisis food assistance to families and pregnant
women in need; N.C. Harvest, which distributes a variety of surplus foods; and the Friendship Trays, which delivers meals for
the homebound on special diets. A “Social Service Center” will host a variety of health and social services programs. A
community mediation program will train mediators to help resolve minor disputes peacefully through dialogue. Two community nursing programs are currently
being evaluated that would be based at the Center to provide much-needed health screening and other services. In addition to
these practical and much-needed services, the Ada Jenkins Center plans to provide a “Community Arts Center.” Through donations, a library
of musical instruments and sheet music will be made available for community music lessons and individual practice. This room will
also serve as an art “discovery place” for children: “Music and art teachers are needed to offer services. These resources
will be made available to individuals for either a nominal fee or through a “sweat equity plan,” in which one
can donate time to the Center in return for services. “This allows individuals to think in terms of contributions rather
than need,” explained Brown.

In order for the Ada Jenkins Center project to continue its success, Brown observes it “has to be community-driven.” As
such an integral part of this community, Davidson College students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to think about what skills
and interests they can add to the progress being made. Presently, volunteers are needed to help with renovations Saturday mornings
from 9 a.m. - noon. An afterschool tutoring program is also in need of volunteers every weekday afternoon. Those interested
should contact YuJay Harris (6175) or Latasha High. Anyone with general questions about volunteering can call the Service Coordinator, Catherine
Turner, at 892-2460.
