Che ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE MONDAY, APRIL 14, 1997 VOLUME 88, NUMBER 24

How does Admissions recruit African American students?
By Mary Clare Jalonick
Editor Emerita

The Admissions office recently sent out acceptance letters, and the number of African American students accepted is higher than ever.

The Minority Experience at Davidson

This year 206 African American students applied and 74 were accepted. This is a marked increase from last year, when
130 applied and 52 were accepted. Senior Associate Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid Leonard Satterwhite says this class is
a milestone. “This is the first time we have had more than 200 applicants,” he says. Dean of Admissions Nancy
Cable attributes the increase to a concerted effort on the part of staff to recruit African Americans, Asian Americans. “What
we’ve found is that you need to start working early,” she says.

In order to increase the number of minority applicants, the admissions office buys lists of names of promising ninth grade
students from the College Board. By the tenth grade, the students receive mailings. Beginning in the spring of the junior
year, the high school students receive calls from minority Davidson students — Cable calls it a “massive phone campaign.” The
Admissions office then calls or writes all minority recruits in the fall of their senior year and invites them to
apply. Satterwhite says the admissions office has “involved current students a lot more” this year. In addition to the phonathons,
current students visit their old schools. Alumni, as well, conduct local interviews for recommendations.

Ann Jenkins, one of the 14 African American members of the class of ’96 and now an admissions counselor, says
that the process is rigorous. “I volunteered [with recruiting efforts] throughout my four years here, and it is a very
complicated process. It’s not as simple as I thought.”

Last year, the Admissions office recruited 2,741 African American students and 208, or 7% of recruits, applied. Thirteen percent of
the total number of students recruited applied. Cable is optimistic about the progress that Davidson has seen. “It takes about
six to eight years to build a stronger applicant base,” she says. Satterwhite, who directs most minority recruitment, is also
satisfied with the increases in numbers. “Davidson has made a lot of progress,” he says. “We have focused on the
idea that we would like a more diverse college. The idea is to make the pool larger in terms of
applicants.”

However, he says, the school has not made as much progress with the numbers of Asian American or Hispanic students.
“[Applicants are thinking], ‘Is this school a reflection of me and who I would like to be?’ At other schools
there might be more places that students feel included. Efforts are being made here, but there is still progress to
be made,” he says. “The real challenge is developing a community of real acknowledgement, a comfortable place to embrace black
students, ...”

See Admissions on page 5

African American Applicants 1987-1997
| Applied | Accepted | Enrolled |
| 1987 | 73 | 25 (34%) | 15 (60%) |
| 1989 | 57 | 34 (60%) | 18 (53%) |
| 1991 | 59 | 30 (51%) | 15 (50%) |
| 1995 | 94 | 34 (36%) | 17 (50%) |
| 1997 | 208 | 80 (38%) | N/A |

Heavy thinking
OPINIONS . 8

SOUL SHAKIN’
A member of the Chris Thompson and the Cultural Ensemble dance troupe, which performed at the Black Student Coalition as
part of the Umoja Festival, gets down on Friday night.

Tuition Benefit Proposal
Faculty make final comments before Trustee decision
By Matthew Eirich
Associate Editor

At the final open forum on proposed cuts to the dependent tuition benefit last Monday, faculty members questioned the wisdom
and economics of cutting the benefit. Associate Professor of Eco-Economics Professor Vikram Kumar made the most fundamental challenge to the
proposal when he asked President John Kuykendall not to present the proposal put forth by the Advisory Council for Finance,
Personnel, and Development to the College’s Board of Trustees. Kumar acknowledged the council’s work as laudable but said that the
issue was too complex for them to handle adequately. He said the proposal merely duplicated other institutions’ benefit plans, and
that with more time a more creative solution might be found. The council’s proposal reflects a “rule of thumb: do
unto ourselves as others do unto themselves,” according to Kumar.

In a letter to President Kuykendall, Professor of History and Classics Peter Krentz suggested that tuition benefits be decreased two
percent for every year of service.

See Faculty on page 3

Baseball knocks off league-leading Western

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

The baseball team literally walked to an upset win over Western Carolina Sunday in Cullowhee, taking advantage of Catamount pitchers’
control problems to salvage a victory in this weekend’s three-game set.

“They’re a very good club,” said seventh-year coach Dick Cooke. “They’re a solid team offensively, but they struggled on the
mound (yesterday). We got some big hits and were able to take advantage.”

Seven Western pitchers combined to issue 13 free passes and hit three Wildcats in the three-hour, 18-minute marathon, as the
Catamounts collected 14 hits — four of which were home runs — but ultimately fell, 11-9.

Second baseman Jeff Coker, who came into the series batting at a .533 clip over his past four games, launched
a three-run homer in the fourth inning, staking Davidson to an early 5-1 advantage. Mike DeSimone—who usually does his damage
from the pitching rubber—knocked a two-run double in the sixth inning to put the Wildcats up for good, 8-6. Both
baserunners who scored had been walked.

Shortstop Ben Brown had two hits, powerful center fielder Luke Goodwin added two RBIs, and pitcher Mordecai Stolk survived Western’s
offensive onslaught to post his fourth win of the year.

What a difference a day makes, though. Western’s pitching overwhelmed Davidson (18-24, 8-12 SC) Saturday, as the Wildcats managed just
eight hits total in the doubleheader, losing 11-1 and 9-4.

Mike DiFelice pitched a complete game, two-hitter in the opener, pushing his record against Southern Conference opponents to 5-0. Brad
Edwards and Brown had the only hits for the Wildcats, who scored their one run in the first inning on
two walks, a wild pitch, and a sacrifice fly by Gus Quattlebaum.

But the Catamounts (31-16-1, 15-6), one of the league’s premier teams and winners of 14 of their last 18, had
more than enough offense, pounding out 11 runs on 18 hits.

“They’re going to get ten to 12 hits every ballgame,” Cooke explained. “And we did not have many hits at
all [Saturday].”

Western outfielder Matt Stillwell, who is hitting .411, had three hits, including his 12th round tripper of the spring, and
third baseman Jeremy Bruce went 3-for-5.

The nightcap brought much of the same woes for the Wildcats, although their bats perked up somewhat. Brown had a
pair of hits and Quattlebaum smacked a two-run homer in the seventh, accounting for the only Wildcat extra-base hit of
the game. Edwards went one for two and scored twice, and DeSimone picked up a base hit in a pinch-hitting
role in his only plate appearance.

The Wildcats venture into ACC country this week, playing at N.C. State Tuesday and at Duke Wednesday.
