10 | THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1997

Man... or Astroman? stellar!

By Carrie Morris
Associate Arts and Living Editor

Perched at the 900 Room bar, I was given what I consider to be a choice spectator spot for the full experience of the insane, energetic antics of those who call themselves “Man...or Astroman?” They appear dressed in the punk-rock/astronomical style of an industrial mix of plastic and duct tape, set against an entertaining backdrop of bright satellite dishes and a slide show of past moon excursions. This band of exhilarated and mechanically moving men (one uncannily resembling Spock) blasted their high-energy surfer-rock to a crowd fully responsive to their wavelength.

Little Debbie’s showered the crowd and the lead singer(?)...you know, the one in bright orange, even ventured out into the crowd with a large, circular, metal tray to serve the delights up personally to the fans.

As a bartender for the evening, I was given the chance to meet the crowd more personally while satisfying their liquid desires throughout the show. This gave a clearer perspective to the entire event. A few things I heard last night went something like this... “I love these guys...they rock!” And, “Are you guys selling the CDs?” And, “Do you think the lead singer is as hot as I do?” However, I heard one observant spectator comment on the fact that “these guys are good, the energy is high and the music is fun, but I wouldn’t want to hear it in my car...the experience is the thing.” And I would have to agree. I left the bar with a sense that this music is present and accounted for...but to see them live is to love them. To sweat with the masses (or rather, serve them caffeinated beverages and watch them sweat together) is the way to experience “Man...or Astroman?” I’m not sure that their absolute magnitude and luminosity would reach one’s vision if only heard blasting out of an impersonal speaker system...so go see ‘em. You would have to work hard to be disappointed.

MONDAY

Back to the Future features stolen plutonium and consequently irate Libyans at the Outpost 9:30 p.m. (free admission)

Project Life holds its first meeting of the year in the Union Conference Room 7:00 p.m.

Carol House sale enjoys a showcase on the Union Patio 9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m.

Cynthia Lawing gives a piano recital in Hodson Hall 8:00 p.m.-9:30 p.m.

Footloose starring the one and only Kevin Bacon shows for FREE (“Free? Did somebody say ‘Free?’”) in the Outpost 9:30 p.m.-11:30 p.m.

TUESDAY

Coffeehouse has made doughnuts and coffee for purchase in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m.

WEDNESDAY

WALT makes itself available for questions/comments/concerns/ultimata/etc. on the Union Patio 11:00 a.m.-2:00 p.m.

Say Anything with John Cusack shows in the 900 Room 7:00 p.m.

Women’s soccer takes on Clemson at Richardson Field 7:00 p.m.

Weird Science completes the evening's double feature in the 900 Room 9:30 p.m.

Women’s Issues Reception holds down the fort in the 900 Room 7:00 p.m.

Sixteen Candles with Molly Ringwald (early Facts of Life phenom) hits the big screen at the Outpost 9:30 p.m.

THURSDAY

Welcome back to Davidson! This is the beginning of a weekly column that will deal with student health concerns and issues. We will be working with the Student Health Occupations to act as liaisons between the students and health center staff. You may see us speaking in PE 101 classes, hall meetings, and other events throughout the year. We are:

Eric Borgstrom is a senior history major from Alexandria, Va. He is involved in the volunteer fire department, FIJI, and the rugby team.

Amy Marks is a senior psychology major from Atlanta. She is involved in club soccer and much, much more.

Mitch Shores is a sophomore from Mount Airy, N.C. He is currently an RA and involved with Health Advisors. Please send suggestions, comments, and questions directed to The Student Body and us, the health advisors. Please send them anonymously to The Student Body, c/o Mitch Shores, P.O. Box 4180, Davidson, NC 28036.

Lindsay Meyers is a sophomore from Lake Jackson, Texas. She is involved in Warner Hall eating house, and the AIDS awareness committee.

FRIDAY

Ferris Bueller's Day Off starring Ben Stein (“Anyone?”) blatantly subverts authority in the 900 Room 9:30 p.m.

Men’s soccer reinstates its rivalry with UNCC at Richardson Field 7:00 p.m.

SATURDAY

50s Dance will not feature Renelvis this year but should still be a lot of fun in Wall Commons 8:00 p.m.-12:00 a.m.

Jumpin’ Java has free coffee, tea, crackers, newtons, “chickins in biskits,” and much, much more at the Outpost 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m.