THE DAVIDSONIAN

I read an article in the Charlotte Observer the other day about a young woman who has “grown up right under our noses.” At the age of 17, Chelsea Clinton is preparing to venture out of the White House for the first time on her own. In September she begins classes as a freshman at Stanford University. Last semester, the buzz around this campus was that Davidson had made Chelsea’s short list. Several people swear they spotted her dashing across campus one Saturday morning in the fall. In addition, a story surfaced about a woman whose roadside trash container had been pushed away from the curb of her Main Street abode as a precautionary measure by the Secret Service. The truth of the matter remains that the college never acknowledged an official visit by the President’s daughter. Regardless, what amazed me was the excitement surrounding the possibility of Chelsea Clinton attending Davidson College.

Chelsea made the right choice. Just think, you would have undercover agents, snipers so to speak, all over campus. Then the news shows would come. Hard Copy and The National Enquirer would be contacting you on a daily basis—if not knocking on your door—to get any piece of information you could possibly sell them. Does she seem to be having fun? Does she miss Socks? What color is her toothbrush? Did she really participate in the body painting hall mixer?

A worse scenario, of course, would occur if Chelsea was actually your roommate. The FBI would have an immense file on you before you graduated, and you would probably feel quite awkward when her mom and dad called to see how she was doing. What if Chelsea was a downright slob? Do you call RLO and tell them that you are sick of having a psycho roommate that steals all of your cookies and leaves dirty laundry on the floor, or do you keep silent and not complain, knowing that your conversation is being recorded and sent directly to important people in Washington? Or perhaps even more awkward, what if Chelsea brought a boy home to “sleep over?” Do you excuse yourself politely or do you pretend to fall asleep, hoping to discover some piece of knowledge that you can sell to A Current Affair for several million?

Imagine Chelsea Clinton on Patterson Court. Is that possible? Could you ever picture Chelsea going to “Pimp and Ho,” or “Anything For Money?” That scares me. Try envisioning Chelsea getting into a fight at the Outpost. It just can’t be done. I guess I am just trying to say that Chelsea just didn’t belong at Davidson. This place is too small and I hate to say it, but in a strange way too perfect for such a disruption. I’m thanking all my lucky stars that she’s not here, not being my lab partner, not scoring a touchdown on the flickerball field, and not running next to me with her shirt off on Self-Selection night. Thank you, God.

A salute to the men in brown

In the wake of the recent UPS strike, I asked myself why strikers strike. The drivers made $20 an hour, they could look forward to a nice pension, and most of them had great benefits. Still, these 160,000 people decided to simultaneously stop working, lose their salary for however long, and risk their standard of living for something they believed was right. They wanted their fellow part-time workers, who mostly worked 35-39 hours a week and were paid eight to nine dollars, to have better pay and the opportunity to become full-time. UPS paid their drivers well but refused to treat their mail sorters similarly. Like many other companies, they would rather hire many part-time workers and pay them less instead of hiring fewer full-time workers and paying them more.

Let’s stop attributing our beliefs and behavior to the teachings of “THE FAITH” and instead call them what they really are: thoughts and acts of bigotry. Truly Christians are acquiring a pompous, smug, hypocritical stereotype which is totally the opposite of Jesus’s teachings. Fear is the prime motivator—fear of those who think or appear different. If everyone were just like everyone else, we would live in a stagnant world without new ideas and inventions. There would be no one to challenge our ideas, no one forcing us to think, no one forcing us to form our own opinions. Religion is a volatile issue, as is sexual preference, and when these two issues collide, the world becomes downright ugly. In my county of Greenville, S.C., they clashed during the summer of 1996. Unfortunately, a small-minded religious interpretation won.

The strike taught me a simple lesson. People with power should help those without it. I am not suggesting we all strike in order to combat all of what is wrong with America. But we do know that even passive support helps. The public solidly backed the teamsters during their strike. The strike in retrospect displayed how powerfully and usefully trade unionism can succeed when those who are willing to take the risks for questionable gain. In the UPS strike, it's nice to know that the good guy gambled and won.

In order to understand these events, an explanation of Greenville County and its people is in order. The county is one of paradoxes. The government is controlled mainly by vocal right-wing religious conservatives. Greenvillians want their latte, but they do not want to pay for it. Council members were threatened with the loss of votes in the forthcoming election, and two of these members turned their backs on their beliefs to vote.for this resolution. This is proof that even the least important politician will ignore their conscience to remain in a position of power. So what does all of this mean, and why is this anti-gay resolution so frightening?

The county council has declared that the gay/lesbian lifestyle is incompatible with the morals and values that we as Greenvillians want in our neighbors. During the summer of 1996, both Greenville and Spartanburg counties drafted an anti-gay resolution; only the county council of Greenville was ignorant enough to pass it. The county was, and is, completely divided on the issue, but the Christian Coalition was unified.

A resolution is not a law—it is “a formal expression of opinion, will, or intent voted by an official body or assembled group,” according to Webster’s Ninth New Collegiate Dictionary. However, these council members are expressing the opinion of a vocal but small minority and misrepresenting others.

If a resolution is an expression of intent, then is it the intent of council members and, by extension, the religious minority to rid Greenville County of the sinful gays and lesbians, who contribute much to the economic and intellectual growth of our county? You can’t have your latte and drink it too.

This resolution is a shot in the foot, better yet, the head. It is at least an embarrassment but is at the most a foreshadowing of the battles that will be waged during our professional lifetime. This opinion sets a precedent for potentially closed societies and goes against the Bill of Rights and the Constitution. Our society is working toward plurality and acceptance, not rejection. We are trying to bury segregation—let’s not resurrect it in the name of sexual preference rather than skin color.

This anti-gay resolution is merely a thinly-veiled attempt at segregating the queers and “dykes” from the righteously-minded. Please be aware of the sentiments around you and to what those sentiments may lead. Our country is trying to end discrimination. Why must humans feel threatened by the very quality that makes this world real and interesting—diversity?

One more word to those who will call me blasphemous and may be feeling a rush of smug pity for me because I do not understand “the ways of the Lord.” Turn your finger on yourself. It’s time to question from where your beliefs come, the Bible or your own fear of those who do not fit your tight little mold. How can you condemn someone else when you are yourself a sinner and a hypocrite? Let’s not close our minds to ideas and beliefs that may challenge our image of the world. Listen while you argue, and allow others to have opinions that differ from your own.

---

This summer, I was fortunate enough to work as a camp counselor at Camp Glenkirk in Gainesville, VA. Okay, so now everyone who had a high-paid internship in some office is laughing at me and my skimpy summer salary and how I could not possibly have gained any valuable experience for my future career. Well, you're half-right. Being a camp counselor this past summer, I believe, was one of the best decisions I have ever made.

Back in February, I thought along the lines of many other college students. I believed that I needed an internship in my field to help get a jump on my future. I thought I'd try to find an internship in Charlotte and live at Davidson. So I moseyed on over to the Career Center and attended a workshop or two and poked around on their computer. I found a few which seemed interesting and wrote down the information. I figured I’d send out some resumes and cover letters over spring break.

So, when I left with my apartment-mate, Eric, for his home in Alexandria, I was prepared to find a summer job. However, while in Virginia, Eric needed to speak with the director of the summer camp at which he had worked the previous three summers, and he let me tag along. Well, I ended up interviewing with the director that day and was told I could work there that summer. I never ended up sending out those resumes. I decided that working with children was an experience I would truly enjoy and value. And, thanks to Eric, I found a camp that fit me perfectly.

Camp Glenkirk employs what is known as small-group camping. Two counselors, one male and one female, lead a small group of no more than 14 kids. Instead of the typical summer camp, where a group breaks up (some do archery while others play badminton and others make bead necklaces), all activities are done in a group. Glenkirk also keeps it simple, which leaves room for a lot of creativity. Not only did I have the opportunity to impact the lives of children, but I also got to be outdoors all summer and work with over 20 other college-age students who care about many of the same things that I do.

Now I realize that camp counseling is not for everybody—I know people who would rather not work with children or prefer to stay inside. I don’t think there’s anything wrong with office internships at all; they provide excellent experience and can be very educational. I do believe, though, that one can gain just as much experience and education doing something such as camp counseling. Some people blow it off as a non-serious summer job that is easy and is of little worth. But from my experience, I can promise you that at the right camp, being a camp counselor will be, as Eric once told me, “the toughest job you'll ever love.”