MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1997 7 The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors-in-Chief
RANDY HARTWELL
HEATHER LARSON

Arts & Living Editor
CHLOE BROOKE

Business and Circulation Mgrs.
TERESA WHITE
McNEIL CARSWELL

Associate Arts & Living Editor
JEFFERY CROMARTIE

Advertising Managers
MATTHEW EIRICH
JOHN EARLY

Sports Editors
PETER MARTIN
WILL BRADSHAW

News Editor
ANN CULP
MICHAEL KRUSE

Web Page Managers
CLAY LENHART

Associate News Editor
BRAD CHASE

Photo Editor
NARESH NAGELLA
ANNA JUDY

ERIC PENDERGRASS

Opinions Editors
KRISTEN BARTCH
CHRIS MOORE
DAVID SANTSCHI

Cartoonist
Founded in 1914
CHRIS MOORE

“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

LETTERS

Missing the Point

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at: http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

American Graffiti

In late 1980, the artist Keith Haring began noticing that the metropolitan transit authority in New York City would cover
the posters in subway stations with black paper once the advertiser’s rental period had run out. Intrigued and inspired by
the very public spaces which he saw as blank canvases, Haring began using them for his own personal expression. Soon,
his white chalk drawings of little androgynous cookie-cutter people emitting rays of energy and movement became easily recognizable to harried
commuters. The drawings spoke to them, documenting the laughable existence of the consumer, whose individual dynamism, however forceful, was no
match for a media-driven capitalist culture.

Certainly, Haring’s intentions were distinct from those of other “taggers,” as graffiti artists are sometimes known, but the impetus was
the same—both had found space in which to express themselves. Actually, the space probably finds them, as blank, open stretches
often demand someone’s imprint. (This editorial space has that tendency. More on that later.) From the time of the cave
painters of Lascaux to the Kilroy era, empty spaces have begged human expression. Or at least human hubris usurps the
spaces for it.

This appropriation, and the exhilarating freedom it suggests, call to mind the graffiti that appeared last week on the wall
surrounding the construction site of the new science building, as well as on the yellow brick wallpaper hung in the
Union Gallery before Spring Break as part of Alcohol Awareness Week. Shortly after the construction wall was erected, the words
“We hated the damn trees, anyway” materialized in perfectly stenciled, oh-so-Davidsonesque Palatino font. Deemed inappropriate, they were painted over. Then,
Saturday night, more graffiti—this time less neat and coherent—appeared. Apart from the exclamations “Tree stumps are my FAVORITE!” and “This
is LIVIN’,” which may have been addressed to “earth people,” there was a human profile, with the letters “TS” for
eyes, engaged in a private sexual act. This, too, was painted over.

The construction wall graffiti, like most, differs from that in the Union Gallery, in that no one asked for it.
The graffiti on the yellow brick paper was entirely solicited, requesting descriptions of “Positive and Negative Experiences with Alcohol” on
one wall and “Hopes and Dreams” on the other. Though Union Board President Matthew Hobbie argued for its duration, it
became evident the paper would have to be removed once such bons mots as “Beer+Sluts=Fun” degenerated into sniping personal attacks.

To which we say, in all three instances, of course. Everyone treasures the freedom of expression, but with that freedom
comes a great deal of responsibility. We are not advocating censorship, at least not of the Jesse Helms-NEA-Robert Mapplethorpe variety.
We just want taggers and others who use public space with which to express themselves to be mindful of the
duty they owe those who own that space—the public. Keith Haring used subway station platforms to enlighten a populace. Degrading
trivia enlightens no one.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per
student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.
Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the
editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35 per
year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editors:

The Tuesday before Spring Break, the SGA passed an altered form ofThe petition that 450 of you signed during the
two days it was in the Commons and in Chambers. Basically, we asked that the Faculty recognize Veteran’s Day in
the same way they had decided to recognize Martin Luther King Day. Unfortunately, the Faculty Executive Committee denied SGA’s request.
As the person who drafted the SGA resolution, I was obviously disappointed by the Faculty Exec’s decision. However, what disappointed
me the most and what this article is about has nothing to do with Veteran’s Day. What upset me was
the Faculty Exec’s argument as to why it chose to recognize Martin Luther King Day and not Veteran’s Day. When
Buster Burk and I presented our resolution to the Exec, we were told that the primary reason they chose to
recognize MLK Day was because (in their opinion) it was a Christian holiday. Their recognition was based on the fact
that Dr. King was a minister and that the holiday recognized Christian ideas. And since Veteran’s Day had no Christian
foundation, it was not worthy of the same status. Perhaps other considerations went into the Faculty Exec’s decision, but if
they did, this one was the one cited to us as the basis for the decision.

Anyone who reads my periodic “opinions” pieces would know that I am a Christian. Normally I would be the first
one to congratulate Davidson on taking a stand on the side of Christianity. But in this case, as far as
I am concerned, the position we appear to be taking is misguided. If we say the only reason we are
recognizing MLK Day is because it is a “Christian holiday,” we totally miss the point of that holiday, and we
do a disservice to what Dr. King stood for and accomplished. Although it is undeniable that Dr. King used the
teaching of Christ as his guide in organizing his movement (in fact, I recently wrote an article on that topic),
MLK Day is much more than a Christian holiday. MLK Day does not celebrate Christianity as such; it celebrates the
Civil Rights Movement and the courage and principles of its leader. It celebrates equality and the ideals upon which America
is founded. It is a holiday that celebrates the joining of the races in a way that they had never
before been joined. And it is a holiday that remembers the plight of all underprivileged and discriminated peoples in our
country. We are denying all of these accomplishments when we ignore the real purpose of the holiday and say that
“the reason we recognized MLK Day was because we felt it was a religious holiday that tied into the religious
roots of our school.”

As a southern college, we should be especially aware of how we may look if we fail to recognize the
civil rights aspect of MLK Day and confuse the issue by citing other reasons for recognition. We cannot try to
walk some political tightrope. If by recognizing MLK Day for what it really stands for, we are obligated to recognize
other federal holidays (such as Veteran’s Day), then so be it. But that should not be the issue that drives
us in making our decisions. When we decide a holiday is important enough to be recognized by the school, our
official stance must be one that recognizes the true meaning of that holiday. Basically, if a holiday is important enough
to cancel classes for, it should be important enough that we are willing to publicly recognize it for what it
is. Now that we have had some time to discuss the issue, we should be willing to change our current
position and recognize that MLK Day is not about the “Christian ideal upon which this school was founded” but rather
is an affirmation of the importance and accomplishments of the Civil Rights Movement.

Eric Sapp ’98

Can’t find that pot o’ gold at the end of your rainbow? Haven’t seen any four-leaf clovers lately? Buy a
Davidsonian t-shirt. The luck o’ the Irish is sewn right in by the wee leprechauns who write for us.
