8 THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1997

Note to Franklin: Don’t blame the messenger

James Jefferson

Franklin’s criticism of the Davidsonian’s “sensational” coverage of the Gist trial (“Responsible Journalism?”) does nothing more than attack the messenger and distract us from the real question at hand. For the real issues are not the Davidsonian’s coverage of, but the student’s reaction to, the trial. Franklin would have the community believe that we “‘journalists’” — his sophomoric use of pejorative quotation marks appalls me — focused our attention on the trial while everyone else was looking elsewhere.

So as not to be accused of employing the same sophistic techniques as Franklin, I will say up front that any reference to the Gist trial as an Honor Code case is a mistake. Franklin argues that this confusion warrants skepticism about the quality of our reporting, and I disagree. One mistake, an understandable one considering the trial was conducted by the Honor Council, does not erode Sarah Ogden’s fine reporting.

Franklin’s letter reveals a fascination, a selective fascination, with the results from the Davidsonian’s poll on the Honor Council. I became an English major because I cannot do math, but here is what the numbers say to me. From what I understand of statistics, our poll cannot be called biased. That a third of the student body attended the trial, but half of those polled attended is perfectly probable. I didn’t feel comfortable filling out a poll because I did not attend the trial. Those who did attend probably felt more confident voicing their opinions than did those who did not (or could not) attend. The dissimilar numbers between the attendees and the polled students do not invalidate the poll, as Franklin asserts.

But more importantly, Franklin evades the disparate reactions between those who attended and those who did not. Of those who attended, nearly 60 percent found their “faith in the Honor Code and/or Code of Responsibility lessened.” Only 38 percent of non-attendees found their faith lessened. What these numbers suggest to me — and again I am not very good at math — is that, if you were at the trial, you very likely did not like what you saw.

As Franklin seems fond of giving advice, I assume he doesn’t mind receiving some: Perhaps the administration and members of the Honor Council, of which Franklin is a member — which he neglected to mention — need to fix those elements in the Gist trial which made 60 percent of the students enter or were not willing to endure the uncomfortable conditions. (That is the reason, by the way, we printed the transcript, Franklin’s rhetorical fireworks notwithstanding.) And as Mike Scarbo pointed out two weeks ago, 450 of the 500 people who heard Koestner speak were required to be there. That means 50 of the remaining 1,100 or so people who had a choice to attend her speech chose not to.

Franklin found the amount of coverage devoted to the Gist trial unwarranted given the other events of the week. Specifically, he found our reprinting of the transcript gratuitous, and recommended that a transcript of Katie Koestner’s presentation would have been better placed in that space. Again, let us return to Franklin’s dear numbers. A third of the campus attended the trial, and a third of the campus attended Koestner’s speech. The 900 Room was so packed that many people could not enter or were not willing to endure the uncomfortable conditions. This is unfortunate, I agree with Franklin. But should we ignore the fact that more people are interested in a Code of Responsibility case than Katie Koestner, First Night Down, or football? Truly, we would be living down to Franklin’s claim that we were creating the news had we proceeded in any other way.

It also seems relevant to point out that we had to expand our Op-Ed section from three to four pages to accommodate both the number of submissions concerning the trial and also the articles on other subjects. I also disagree that the trial was “a relatively unimportant subject” simply because “at no time was anyone ever in danger of being expelled from school.” Franklin speaks the truth about the possible sanction here, but misses the point. People were interested to see how Honor Council members handled the case. What students saw at this open trial will serve as the basis for their opinions about how the Honor Council operates at closed trials. Every trial is undoubtedly different, but presumably many things are constant from one to the next, and it is these constants students are interested in. Because, unfortunately and in all probability, the Honor Council will decide a future case in which expulsion is a possible sanction.

Franklin disguises the real issue — the negative reaction of many students to the functioning of the Honor Council — with angry rhetoric and selective argument. The front-page, and indeed the entire newspaper, is what we have always tried to make it: an accurate reflection of the most interesting stories of the week. Franklin hasn’t convinced me that the Davidsonian’s coverage of the trial deviated from that principle in the least.

Court parties over the years. Bloody brawls, sloppy hook-ups on the dance floor, people slipping in the spilled beer and falling into the muck under the crowd’s feet — these images have all met my eyes at one time or another. However, this weekend I witnessed the last thing I ever expected to see at a Court party: the hideous double standard of our society.

For a few years now, the swimmers of Davidson have brought it upon themselves — thank God somebody has — to cross the line of radical behavior by disrobing in the midst of the crowd to dance in a frenzy of raw energy. As an amazing display of athletic conditioning and unbridled emotions, the event has become a ritual in some Houses. Last Saturday night served as no exception as the crowd once again received a solid dose of men without shirts, jumping and grinding in time to the music. The only difference in the event came later in the evening when a young lady, fed up with the heat inside the House, proceeded to unbutton her shirt in order to cool off. Her thick, white satin bra revealed no more cleavage than would a bikini top. She never removed theshirt itself. I've seen dresses worn to church ceremonies that would have exposed more of her breasts. Citing the swimmers’ ability to remove their clothing without drawing admonishment, she felt justified in her actions. And why not? After all, we do live on a liberal arts campus in this day of supposed sexual equality. Why can’t men and women take off their shirts if the mood strikes? I thought women were now being taught the idea of a healthy body image. Should we tell women to feel pride in their bodies, but to never enjoy it? What’s more enjoyable than removing a coarse garment under uncomfortable conditions to feel the cool drops of rain on your skin?

In the midst of all this, the double standard of our society took the form of a female attendant of the party. Carrying the stench of stale beer on her breath, this random female approached the open-shirted young woman and began rambling off reasons why the shirt ought to be buttoned. Many of her assertions relied upon the double standard of dividing the actions of individuals in relation to sex. In other words, if men want to take off their shirts and dance around, that’s all right. But should a woman do the same, she should be persecuted for her attempt to display any model of equality. She finished her verbal assault by stating that the removal of one’s clothes resulted in imitating the swimmers, thereby associating oneself with a group she deemed unacceptable. I never expected to see a woman attack another woman for trying to enter a man’s world.

The double standard which persists in our society is bad enough when preached from one sex to the other. But the acceptance and propagation of that standard within the sexes would seem to only corrupt the movement for sexual equality. In this day and age when women struggle in business, at home, and in the classroom for a foothold from which to gain an equal standing among men, unity would seem paramount to success. But such unity will come at the cost of holding our tongues when individuals’ bold movements violate the morals of the few for the benefit of the mass.

What’s wrong with a little cleavage? A look at the Court’s accepted sexual (lack of) clothing division. Do you want to know how to really anger people on this campus? Let me tell you. Do one thing: Unbutton your white Gap cotton shirt and expose your bra. That’s it. Sounds really simple, doesn’t it? Come on, you say, the male swimmers dance topless all the time. More power to them. It gets hot in those houses. Ever heard of the Naked 400s? There’s nudity there, too. And guess what, it’s male nudity. That was my statement; that was my experiment. Why don’t women on this campus enjoy the freedom to get naked whenever it pleases them? On Self-Selection Night, men run butt-naked through every house on campus while the women of some eating houses take off their shirts and expose their bras. How risqué. Would the world end if we had some exposed cleavage on this campus? Apparently so.

Here is a conversation that actually took place: A woman indignantly approached me. “Could you please put your shirt on,” she demanded. “Why?” I respond. No answer. “What year are you? Are you a freshman?” Now, what does that mean? If I were a freshman, would I still be under the impression I was in a fun and wacky place? Maybe, although probably not. “No, actually, I’m a sophomore.” “Well, I’m a senior, so could you please put your shirt on.” If seniority dictates the dress code around here, I think we’re in big trouble. Or at least I am because I don’t own any specially coordinated Abercrombie & Fitch outfits, nor do I support J. Crew. “Frankly, I don’t see any problem with what I’m doing,” I said. “Guys do it all the time. Come on, are you going to tell the swimmers to put their shirts on?” “Yes, and besides I don’t think you want to be aligned with those people.” Great, I was dealing with someone who thinks along the lines of “us” and “those people.” This argument was obviously a lost cause.

So there I was, innocently making my point and in the background there are occasional hisses of “Slut,” “Whore,” and “Bitch.” I find this kind of funny: When I unbutton my shirt, I’m a whore. Meanwhile, those women who are trying to hook up with anything that moves are OK. All the time I’m standing next to my boyfriend — the same guy who has walked me home for an entire year. My boyfriend. If that makes me a slut, so be it. “Thou hast a whore’s forehead; thou refusest to be ashamed” (Jeremiah 3:3). That’s right, my friends. There’s no shame here and I will do it again. I am a woman. I have breasts. And if I get hot or am even just struck by the urge, I will take it off. Learn to deal with it. I am allowed my freedom of expression. And if you don’t like it, don’t look.

The Davidsonian of Davidson College is published weekly on Monday during the academic year by the students. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $40 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.