THE DAVIDSONIAN

Frosh enter SGA

By Christine Larned
Staff Writer

Thirty-five ambitious freshmen ran for six seats in the SGA Monday. Seizing the most votes, Jehan Shamsid-Deen won the presidency, and the next top five vote-winners earned seats as freshman senators in the student governing body. All six freshmen will be responsible for serving on at least three SGA committees. They are expected to investigate, debate, and vote on SGA issues. Seventy-three percent of the freshman class voted in either Chambers or Vail Commons, far surpassing the national—and overall campus—election turnout.

Shamsid-Deen hails from Charlotte, N.C., and hopes to build the voice of the class of 2001 to proportions equalling its unprecedented size. In addition to leading the freshman class in the student executive committee, Shamsid-Deen will be the committee chairperson of the annual fundraising phonathon next semester. Also this spring, she will lead the freshman social with the other five first-year representatives.

Allen Lee is another candidate who won a position as freshman senator. Lee promises strong, yet friendly leadership. He wants to make his fellow students’ opinions known.

Hayes Permar earned distinction on Davidson’s campus last Sunday night as he sat in front of the Commons during the dinner hour campaigning. Lounging in a lawn chair, his body completely covered in purple paint, he listened to Jimi Hendrix’s "Purple Haze." In his own words, “Hayes, he can amaze in many, many different ways.”

Monica Martinez came to Davidson from Stone Mountain, Ga. She won a seat under the platform that she cares about our class and our school. “I don’t have a list of promises,” she said. “Just one—that I am honest.”

Dane Erickson is from Lakewood, Colo. As a freshman senator, he hopes that he can be as active at Davidson as he was in high school.

Travis Harp won his position in the freshman senate with a simple campaign promise. Harp says he will provide “a logical and rational mouthpiece for all freshmen.” Harp came to Davidson from distant Great Falls, Mont. “If there was anything I wanted people to identify me as,” he said when asked why he ran for the position, “it would be a leader.”

Six independents join SGA

By Jenny Hapgood
Staff Writer

Six students were elected Monday as independent senators to the SGA. All sophomores, these students join the College’s student government with a variety of ideas.

Will Ragland, from Piedmont, S.C., was elected president of the independents. Ragland is considering a double major in studio art and theater, and he is also involved with the concert choir. After campaigning last year, he ran again in hopes of joining the SGA because he wants the chance to see things get done. “I am ready to dive in head first,” he said.

The second independent, Jesse Smallwood, hails from Bethesda, Md. Smallwood plans to fit the SGA into his busy schedule because he hopes to increase the opportunities for students to communicate with the independents. He would also like to see the number of minors increased within the departments. Smallwood is considering a major in Political Science or History, and he enjoys club soccer, leading tours, and coordinating the Big Buddies program.

One of two female independents, Molly Allan of McLean, Va., joins the SGA because she is interested in hearing what her colleagues have to say. Allan, who has not chosen a major yet, exerts her leadership in programs such as Davidson Outdoors, the 900 Room, the Films Committee, and the Outpost.

A native of High Point, N.C., Joe Hayworth—nicknamed “Crazy Joe”—brings many ideas to the SGA. He feels the 20-dollars-a-year Patterson Court sticker fee is overpriced for independents, and he hopes to propose a new system to the PCC. Hayworth is also concerned with the safety of the outdoor basketball court near Richardson Field and Johnston Gym. He feels it is improperly lit and that this can be a hazard to players. “Extending the hours at Baker or properly illuminating the basketball court,” he said, “could reduce the risk of student injuries.”

Curious about what happens behind SGA closed doors, Brent Ferrell wants to know what the students can do to make a difference. Ferrell, of Shelby, N.C., is considering a philosophy or theater major, though he is interested in many activities. His time outside of class is spent running cross-country and track, working as secretary for Project Life, and serving as a Young Life leader at a local high school.

The final independent, Lisa Worthington of Reidsville, N.C., comes to the SGA because she wants to help organize “the chaos” she saw at the first meeting she attended. An undecided major, she is involved in Concert Choir, Environmental Action, the Outpost, and the Films Committee.

Senior Honor Council Winners:

Name: Mary Margaret Cochrane
Hometown: Charlotte, N.C.
Major: Political Science, with a concentration in International Studies, emphasis on East Asia
Plans for the future: “I’m applying for the Watson [Fellowship], and I’m applying to JET to teach English in Japan. Other than that, I have no clue. I don’t want to work for a year or two.”
Why did you run for Honor Council? “One of the reasons I came to Davidson was because we had an honor system, and because I felt this school was founded on the premise that they trust their students. I felt like the best way to keep that system going and to keep more students coming to Davidson was to keep the system running efficiently. Without the Honor Code, Davidson wouldn't be Davidson.”
What do you think you can bring to the position? “I’m not really sure what my position entails thus far, but I hope I can bring some general unbiasedness, honesty, trust, facilitation of the Honor Code. Basically, just honesty and sincerity, and just someone that can take all things into account.”
What did you think of the Gist trial? “I thought it was wonderful that the student body got to see what goes on in an Honor Council trial, because I think most people are more scared of the Honor Code than they are understanding of it. I think this issue was probably the wrong issue to bring in front of the campus, because generally most people don’t get brought up on Honor Code charges for something unless they get charged for something more academic in nature, something a little bit closer to home. I really, really admire Charlotte for taking the time before the last remarks to answer questions from the audience, because I think that was really helpful for a lot of people to clarify what was going on.”

Name: Kim Hauch
Hometown: Charlotte, N.C.
Major: Political Science with a Spanish minor
Plans for the future: “I’m taking a year off, and then law school. I want to work in D.C.”
Why did you run for Honor Council? “I just think that there’s so many things to get involved in at Davidson, and the Honor Council is kind of the umbrella organization for everything. Without the Honor Council, what would we have? It’s not in charge of everything, but it governs everything that we do. I’m a tour guide, and I love being able to talk about the Honor Code. I think that that’s something that’s so distinct to Davidson.”
What do you think you can bring to the position? “I’m supposed to be the one that knows a lot about the Honor Code. When I get on the Honor Council—because I have a refreshing outlook, a new perspective, one that is exactly consistent with the Honor Code that we have.”
What did you think of the Gist trial? “It was awesome that we had the opportunity to have an open trial. And the place was packed, so obviously people want to know about it.”

Name: Cristina Rodriguez
Hometown: Valley Cottage, N.Y.
Major: Political Science
Plans for the future: “I probably want to work for a year or two, preferably something in government—either on Capitol Hill or political consulting—and then go back to law school.”Did you run for Honor Council?
“I think that the Honor Code is a very important part of Davidson College, and so it’s something that I want to learn more about. And I believe that being on the Honor Council is the best way to see how it really works.”

What do you think you can bring to the position?
“I hope that I'll be able to interpret the Honor Code well, and in a way that works best.”

What did you think of the Gist trial?
“I haven’t been there yet — I can have a... It was my first time ever seeing the Honor Council and the solicitors in action, and I thought it was a really interesting process. I think that the Honor Council came to a good decision.”

Junior Honor Council Winners:

Name: Lee Burnett
Hometown: Jacksonville, Fla.
Major: Physics and History
Plans for the future: “I really don’t know. As far as after graduation, that’s all up in the air. Just because I can’t decide what I’m gonna do, I'll probably end up going to graduate school for something. I don’t know if I’d want to do that immediately, or work for a couple years.”

Why did you run for Honor Council?
“I ran because I think the Honor Code’s extremely important to the functioning of the school. If Davidson’s going to continue to be what it can be and what it has been, it can only do that with the Honor Code. And believing that important, it made sense for me to try to contribute to that and become an active part of the process.”

What do you think you can bring to the position?
“It’s not just something nice on the side. The Honor Code, if it’s an operative honor code, is integral to the institution, and recognizing that and believing that, I think I can help to promote it and maintain it throughout the school at large.”

What did you think of the Gist trial?
“I thought it was valuable, as far as the open hearing, just in educating people about the process. There are some things that need to be secret, just in the interest of the people involved, but there’s no reason for the process to be secret.”

Name: Andrew Letizia
Hometown: Center Moriches, N.Y.
Major: Classics with a Chemistry minor
Plans for the future: “I hope to attend med school. I was in Bangladesh this summer and decided that I want to go into medical service outside of the U.S. for two or three years. I'd like to stay involved with community service and doing stuff for people who can’t afford proper medical care, inside and outside the U.S. And then do the wife/family thing, and eventually pass on.”

Why did you run for Honor Council?
“I think one of the things that first attracted me to Davidson was the Honor Code, and that it’s taken seriously, which I really respect. It just seems like basic rules for humanity that are set out and are very, very important, that we all need to abide by. I decided I'd like to be a part of that, and uphold the standards the best I can.”

What do you think you can bring to the position?
“I'd like to be as unbiased, and as fair and true to the Honor Code as I possibly can.”

What did you think of the Gist trial?
“It seemed like the decision was correct. I think the concept was there, and it’s up to the Honor Council to decide if he’s guilty or not.”

Name: Drew Lindsey
Hometown: Richmond, Va.
Major: Economics with a Spanish minor
Plans for the future: “I’m struggling with that right now, actually. I guess my original plan was to get out and work for a couple years, and then I was thinking probably business school after that. Recently, I’ve been thinking along the lines of possibly either finding something like an intern or working abroad. I’ve even considered possibly working in the Peace Corps for a couple of years. I’m leaving my options open, basically.”

Why did you run for Honor Council?
“Basically, because I believe a lot in the Honor Code at Davidson, and I think the Honor Code gives students here a lot of freedom. But, at the same time, it demands responsibility from everyone. I want to make sure that the Honor Code is always working for students.”

What did you think of the Gist trial?
“I think it was an issue of intent, and I believe that they made the right decision.”

Sophomore Honor Council Winners:

Name: Liz Clasen
Hometown: Kingsport, Tenn.
Major: “Here are some possibilities: religion and sociology. But right now, I’m planning on taking the classes I like.”
Plans for the future: “I’m interested in working in inner cities, and inner city ministry, especially.”

Why did you run for Honor Council?
“Honor Council is something that’s central to the running of the school, and the Honor Code’s a large part of why I decided to come to Davidson.”

What do you think you can bring to the position?
“I'll listen with an open heart and mind, and I'll be fair.”

What did you think of the hearing last Tuesday?
“I thought it was really cool that they made it a public trial because nobody really knows anything about the Honor Council.”

Name: Lindsay Meyers
Hometown: Lake Jackson, Texas
Major: Undecided
Plans for the future: “I’m sure it’ll be something with some sort of PR, just people things. That’s the reason I like being Student Health Advisor — you’re constantly interacting with people.”

Why did you run for Honor Council?
“I ran last year as a freshman. I just think the Honor Code is one of the highest values that Davidson has. I’m a tour guide, and when I go around and talk to the freshmen, I get excited about it every single time I do a tour. This is why I'm here. This is why I love this school.”

What do you think you can bring to the position?
“I feel strongly about the entire value system, and I would want to promote that in my own life. Hopefully, I can present those values in a positive way. I just hope I would be fair. Hopefully, it’s what I can do. It’s what I want to do.”

What did you think of the Gist trial?
“It was a much bigger case than what it was assumed to be when Dean Shandley brought it up. It really did get a lot of publicity, and that’s just because people really wanted to take a closer look at how the Honor Council works. Whatever the verdict was, it was going to make an impact.”

Name: Richard Wright
Hometown: Rougemont, N.C.
Major: “Probably History, but I haven’t decided yet.”
Plans for the future: “I’m really not sure — undecided.”

Why did you run for Honor Council?
“I ran for Honor Council because the Honor Code is one of the main reasons that I chose to come to Davidson. I feel that by running for the Honor Council, I could play a part in upholding the Honor Code. I was on the Honor Council in my high school, and I enjoyed that, so I wanted to continue it here.”

What do you think you can bring to the position?
“I think with my experience in high school, I bring experience of trying honor cases, and a general sense of living under an honor system. I think I have a good understanding of what it is, and not just knowing what the definition is.”

What did you think of the Gist trial?
“I thought it was interesting. I think it brought up a lot of points that could be addressed, such as the freshmen being oriented to the honor system. I’m not sure that a lot of students knew what, exactly, was going on. Because even I didn’t going into it, really.”

SARAH OGDEN

What do you think you can bring to the position?
“I feel like I can bring good judgment and just a new outlook, and really uphold the Honor Code.”