THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 7, 1997

Humanities seeking to correct sagging energy and morale

from page one

kind of language. "I think it’s healthy for a campus to have that sort of thing,” says Dr. Hansford Epes,
chair of the Humanities Program and professor of German. Strong as this common language may be, it is often not
enough to keep people enthusiastic about the program. Even Epes says that “the creative tension is frustrating to all of
us sometimes.”

The Religion Department sent a memo questioning religion credit being offered for Humanities to the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) and
Epes on February 23. The EPC is composed of eight faculty and staff members and two non-voting students. Some external
speculation suggests that the Religion Department’s decision to offer a new, more comprehensive introductory religion class may explain the department’s
reconsideration of its involvement in Humanities. Still, while the Religion Department is, as yet, the only department to express dissatisfaction
with the treatment of its discipline in the program, chair of the religion department Karl Plank says his department is
not the only one which is unhappy with results of the four-semester sequence.

“The Religion Department was a foundational department of the program, and it was heavily invested in it from the beginning,”
Plank says. “If there is discontent within the Religion Department, it is a part of a larger system of morale
in Humanities. There is a concern for its revitalization, discontent with the inertia of the program. You can find persons
in all of the other departments of Humanities with similar concerns. We responded to it as a curricular situation.”

Religion Professor Lynn Poland agrees that the once-vibrant program has lost its efficacy. “Once upon a time, the Humanities program
was six days a week and it now meets only three times a week. There hasn’t been a serious, sit-down,
reassessment of what the program can accomplish given its abbreviated time commitment,” says Poland who currently teaches in the program.
Poland believes each professor enters Humanities with his or her own agenda. Often, it is difficult to meet everyone’s desires.

“There are a number of things the humanities program wants to do: teach writing, to read and think critically about
text in the context of a group discussion, to provide a sense of a broad sweep of Western humanistic civilization,”
she says. “Depending on which of those things is their priority, people get frustrated with the ability of the program
to do that one thing well.”

Epes argues that Humanities is no different from any other survey course designed for freshmen and sophomores. “Like other survey
courses, it tries to skip through a great deal of time and doesn’t give any one thing the attention it
might deserve,” he says.

Student opinion of the program varies widely. “The typical pattern is a great deal of enthusiasm for Humanities at the
beginning, considerably less at the end of sophomore year and then numbers start going back up at the end of
the senior year,” says Epes. Senior Keith Kleeman fits that example. “While enrolled, the Humanities program was stressful and not
enjoyable. However, it was the best thing academically I did at Davidson,” he says.

Poland thinks that Humanities has gone from having a multi-disciplinary nature to being non-disciplinary. She believes that lectures are an
ideal place to approach text from a variety of disciplines. “One result of the staff not really sitting down and
talking about the purpose of the program is that we don’t really talk about what we want lectures to do,”
she says.

Freshman Paul Eubanks enjoys his experience in Humanities lectures. “Not always the most exciting, the lectures are nonetheless informative, well-organized,
and foster thought on the task at hand,” he says. “I think more panel discussions would be beneficial because students
are able to hear and compare ideas from different members of the Humanities staff.”

Gibson says that Humanities offers an excellentmeans for staff to learn from each other. However, Plank expressed discontent with the
ability of the whole staff to come together. “There’s no real forum for staff itself to get together to do
its business collaboratively, so if you want to bring a charge it’s difficult. The Humanities staff itself doesn’t gather to
do this; that’s why the memo went to the EPC instead of Humanities.”

There are more complaints regarding Humanities beyond staff communication. Students who have not taken the course feel frustrated with the
class’s exclusive study of Western civilization. “The emphasis of Humanities should be thinking about the canon critically, not being able
to say what it is. And presenting it chronologically is not necessary to understand it,” says senior Kristen Richardson. “Humanities
seems to teach about the greatest minds in history, but doesn’t say why they are great. At what expense were
they rendered great? It’s a white heterosexual man’s history.”

“It’s the story of the male subjugation of women,” says senior Dennis Seavers. “In addition, you study texts that deserve
to be studied and only spend a day on them. People come out feeling that they know a subject when
they don’t. That is okay as long as everyone knows that they are jettisoning depth in place of breadth.”

Sophomore Vic Brand is currently enrolled in the program and agrees with Seavers. “I am getting to read things that
I probably wouldn’t have otherwise, but not to any great depth. The quality of class discussion depends often on who
the leader is and the student personalities in the class.”

The course's goal of satisfying the composition requirement is often not met. “I do not think that the humanities program
is producing good writers, or spending nearly enough time teaching first- and second-year students to write,” says senior English major
Zac Lacy. “I have noticed this with classmates of mine who were in the program, and heard several of them
say it themselves.”

Senior Kevin Keeley took Humanities and offers a similar opinion, “In retrospect, I would much rather have taken departmental courses.
I especially didn’t like the fact that I had no control over which professor I would have in a given
semester. I also don’t think that Humanities significantly improved my writing skills; the assignments were too few and far between,
and it was easy to get by without putting much effort into it, which I usually did,” he says.

Some students are sorry that they did not participate in the program. “I think Humanities gives a certain perspective on
Western culture that I am not sure I have been able to cultivate because I haven’t taken a class that
spans across all those centuries and all those different writers,” says sophomore Jordan deBree.

Current Humanities student freshman Campbell Goodloe enjoys the class. “I think that it is the most important and the most
helpful of all the classes that I have had at Davidson,” she says. “Humanities provides you with not only a
broad base upon which to build your other studies, but it serves as a timeline on which you can ‘hang’
all of the other course work on.”

If the program changes drastically, many faculty members feel that alumni will be upset. “Many of the alumni were people
in humanities when it was six days a week and it was this intensive glorious blitz. It’s not the same
and I think some of us would like to restore that intensity that it used to have. Humanities could be
so much better if we had time to really sink our teeth into text,” says Poland.

GREAT OPPORTUNITY

Information Technology Services (ITS) is seeking to employ student consultants to work at the ITS Help Desk. The Help Desk
takes questions regarding standard computer hardware and supported software on campus by phone, email, and in person. Our clients are
students, faculty, and staff at Davidson College. The current help desk hours are 8:30-12:30 and 1:30-5:00 Monday through Friday. If
you are interested, please call Debbie Alford ext. 2292 or email dealford@davidson.edu.
