SPORTS 13 MONDAY, APRIL 21, 1997

Will’s World
Asking nicely
By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

In this week’s opinion page, I published a response to two articles written last week by Wes Roach and David
Kaul. In that article, I alluded to many thought-provoking conversations I have had this week about the purpose of this
sports section. If Roach and Kaul were hoping to change the way sports were covered by the Davidsonian, then they
have failed, because their anger kept me from considering their views. But they weren’t the only voices I heard in
the past week, and these other, less angry and more thoughtful comments have gotten me thinking.

What I have heard from many people is that a college paper should favor its athletic programs, and that Davidsonian
coverage has been unduly negative in the past. Maybe the sports section has swung too far towards the style of
major sports papers. We are not the Chicago Tribune or the New York Times, and while striving for that excellence
in the other sections, writing with that indifference may be damaging to sports coverage here. We are a small college
paper. Our sports page contains the only coverage our athletes will receive in many cases, and the most comprehensive coverage
in all cases. And, by virtue of our peer relationship to the athletes, we do have to take some responsibility
for their feelings.

These conversations have reconvinced me that the Davidsonian sports page needs to strike a balance between indifferent reporting and serving
as sensationalist propaganda for our sports teams. But why did it take me five separate conversations to come to this
conclusion when I should have been able to read the enlightening pieces written by Roach and Kaul and reach the
same conclusion last Monday? It is a lesson in approach. Kaul and Roach buried whatever points they were making in
their anger. In our anger, we missed those points entirely.

In an unrelated event, Tripp Franklin left me and Mike a voice mail, informing us that the track meet at
Duke two weekends ago was not scored. We had reported that Davidson did not score a point, something that was
true, but no other team scored a point either. In that voice mail, Franklin didn’t attack us personally or make
disparaging remarks about our page. He simply told us that we had been misinformed, and asked us to be more
careful in the future. The tone of his call invited us to listen and elicited the correction in this week’s
issue. We were not immediately on the defensive, and we were not meeting anger with anger in responding to his
voice mail. Franklin was more effective in a thirty-second voice mail than Kaul and Roach were in writing two articles
last week because he calmly informed us about something we needed to know. We promptly corrected our mistake.

Next year, the new sports editors will have little or no Davidsonian experience. They are going to make mistakes, and
even if they don’t, something will be said that upsets someone. If you are that someone, then I suggest learning
from the approach that Franklin took (and has taken in the past) in dealing with us. You just might be
amazed with the results.

Men’s tennis finishes second
One point, controversial call keep Wildcats from title
By JAY CANTRELL
Staff Writer

The Covington Tennis Courts were rocking this weekend as Davidson College hosted the most exciting Southern Conference men’s tennis tournament
in years. When the dust settled, the Wildcats finished in a tie for second place with East Tennessee St., just
one point behind Furman University. The three teams were knotted at 60 with only two doubles matches left on the
court. Both went into tiebreakers, with Furman’s No. 1 doubles team of Sam Schroerlucke and Adam Abney defeating ETSU 9-8
(7-4) just minutes before Davidson’s top team of Ted Kaplan and Judson Sutherland lost 9-8 (7-5) to Tennessee-Chattanooga.

Earlier in the day, Schroerlucke upset Davidson’s Jon Pastel 3-6, 6-4, 6-3 to win the first flight singles championship. Pastel,
co-captain and last year’s Southern Conference Player of the Year, had trouble handling Schroerlucke’s big serve and slice backhands. It
was his first league loss in over two years. Pastel had beaten him 7-5, 6-3 earlier in the season.

“I don’t think he really changed anything,” Pastel said. “Maybe I was a little overconfident. I’ve got to give him
some credit. His slices stayed low and in the third set he really didn’t miss.”

“Sam played a great match,” said Davidson coach Jeff Frank. “He was absolutely relentless. I think he played as well
as he is capable of playing.”

Schroerlucke’s win, coupled with the doubles championship, earned him the Most Outstanding Player Award and gave the Paladins their first
championship since 1993.

That left the home team disappointed despite an incredible season. After a 3-8 start, the men served up 11 straight
victories on their way to a 7-0 conference record that gave them theRegular season championship. Co-captains Jon Pastel and Jeff
Tonidandel helped the turnaround by calling a team meeting following a tough loss on March 20 at Winthrop. “After that,”
Pastel said, “Everyone started practicing a little harder. It was like we started a whole new season.”

“I never thought we could do what we did this year,” said Frank. “If ever a team overachieved, it’s probably
this team. We had three guys who weren’t even in the lineup last year.” That trio included sophomore Eric Bourn
and freshmen Brett Talacci and Alex Okulski. Bourn moved up to the No. 5 slot this season and finished fifth
in the tournament. Meanwhile, Talacci and Okulski were busy winning Southern Conference crowns at the three and six seeds, respectively.

Davidson also won two championships in doubles. Pastel and Scott Briggs won the second flight with an 8-6 victory over
Chattanooga’s Genius Chidzikwe and Jordan Goetzman. In the third flight, Tyler Epp and Tonidandel teamed up to beat ETSU’s Ignacio
Perez and Matt Keeter 8-3. The Wildcats’ No. 1 doubles team of Kaplan and Sutherland suffered from a questionable call
in their semifinal match and had to settle for fourth place after a loss to Chattanooga in Sunday’s final bout.
Kaplan and Sutherland appeared to have won the match when Furman’s Schroerlucke hit an errant second serve. Both Davidson players
called the ball out and approached the net to shake hands, but Furman made an appeal to a roaming umpire
who corrected the call from the other side of the court.

“Everyone who saw it thought it was two or three inches out,” said Pastel. “It’s just a bad call. Those
things happen.” The Paladins went on to win that game and the next two to take the match 9-7 and
earn the crucial two points awarded for semifinal victories.

“If that line call goes our way,” said Frank, “we have three doubles teams in the finals.” And doubles is
where the Wildcats have thrived all year. They won the doubles point in each of their 11 straight wins, meaning
they took at least two out of the three matches in each contest. Going into the final round of doubles
on Sunday, Davidson needed all three doubles wins to ensure at least a tie for the title. Instead, Furman won
all three of its battles, including head-to-head victories over Davidson and ETSU to leapfrog into first.

The Wildcats may have lost the team championship, but they earned four individual titles, more than any other school. Also,
Frank was awarded conference Coach of the Year.

See Fantastic Finish on page 14

Women’s tennis claims fourth in conference

By JAY CANTRELL
Staff Writer

The women’s tennis team finished fourth in the Southern Conference tournament this weekend in Greenville, S.C. The Wildcats were led
by all-conference selection Dana Casner and the sixth singles flight champion Lynne Shore. Casner, last year’s league Freshman of the
Year, won her third-place match 6-3, 7-5 over Courtney Hague of Marshall in the No. 1 flight. She was selected
to the All-Conference team for the second year in a row. Shore won a dramatic finale against Erin Russell of
Marshall 6-1, 2-6, 7-6 (8-6). The junior co-captain from Charlotte upset Jennifer Connell of Furman University 6-1, 6-0 in the
semifinal on Saturday.

Last year’s number six singles champion, Claire Cheatwood, finished third this year in the fifth flight. The sophomore from Fayetteville
defeated Angie Bailey of East Tennessee St. 6-4, 6-2 on Sunday. In the number three flight, Ashley Maner capped off
her Davidson career with a fourth-place finish and was awarded the Sportsmanship Award for the second time. She also won
the award, which is voted on by the coaches, in her sophomore year. Maner and her partner, Creecy Chandler, finished
sixth at No. 3 doubles. In the second doubles flight, Cheatwood teamed up with sophomore Clara Marks to finish in
fifth place with an 8-2 victory over Georgia Southern’s team of Vivian Scarborough and Melissa Brown. Marks also finished fourth
in the number four flight following a 6-3, 6-2 loss to Beth Henry of UTC. The number one doubles team
of Casner and Amber Bradford came in third with an 8-6 win over Marshall’s Hague and Alyssa Bengel. Bradford, the
Wildcats’ No. 2 singles player, had to settle for fourth place in her flight after a 7-6, 6-7, 7-5 loss
to Ashley Phillips of Furman.

Head coach Caroline Price, last year’s conference Coach of the Year, will return all but one starter for next season,
when the Wildcats hope to improve on this year’s fourth-place finish.

Editor’s note: The Davidsonian was unable to reach Coach Price or any members of the women’s tennis team. Expanded coverage
will follow next week.
