2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1997

By Mary Care JALONICK
Editor Emerita

SGA President and Vice President Buster Burk and Ann Hariott Fisher recently appointed Sophomore Ed Winant to the new position of treasurer. They appointed Freshman Joslyn Ogden as Chancellor.

Traditionally, the chancellor is paid $800 from the SGA budget. Because the treasurer will now take some duties from the chancellor (control the budget, meet with the Activities Tax Council), Burk and Fisher suggested splitting the funds between the two. In a vote Tuesday, the SGA decided to pay the chancellor $700 and the treasurer $200. This will require taking an extra $100 from the SGA budget.

When asked about using extra funds at the meeting Tuesday, Winant told members of the SGA that he had not had a chance to look at the budget yet. In an interview this weekend, Winant said that he had still not gotten in touch with ex-chancellor Lee Burnett to review specifics of the budget. He thinks that the extra salary will come from the budget increase that the SGA voted in last month. “Since we will be getting [around $14,000] instead of $11,750, it will probably come directly from that.”

Head Independent Senator Matthew Hobbie feels that the raise shows a disturbing trend. “It seems to me that what they are doing is splitting the job and giving a $100 raise. If they are going to split up the duties they should split up the money.” Hobbie feels that the recent budget increase is not a valid reason to raise salaries. “There seems to be a lack of concern for money [recently],” he says.

Senior class senator Sarah Terry disagrees. “It seemed to me that the $100 raise is OK because we are adding responsibility to the positions.” She says that the treasurer position was created so that the SGA can have someone who “is on top of the budget at all times.”

We can't do it without you. (This is not shameless flattery.) Write. x2148

Session I, May 27-June 27
Session II, July 1-August 1

The University of North Carolina at Wilmington
601 South College Road
Wilmington, NC 28403
For more information call (910) 962-7181
E-mail: Summer@uncwil.edu

Community service debated at forum

By ALLISON DOLPH
Staff Writer

Thursday night, a forum on community service was held in the Morrison Room of the College Union to discuss the possibilities of a service requirement for graduation, widening service opportunities to include service learning and programs abroad, and getting more people involved. Stuart Lourd, Director of Community Service and Associate Dean of Academic Affairs at DePaul University, moderated the forum.

About thirty people attended the discussion, including both students and staff, such as President John Kuykendall, Dean Tom Shandley, and Assistant Dean for International Students and Community Service Ruth Pittard. Lourd opened the discussion with a basic question: “Why are you here?” Through a show of hands, everyone at the forum had been involved in service at some point in their lives.

A recurring and divisive theme at the discussion was the possibility for a service requirement. Some people supported instituting a service requirement as a valid learning experience that would enhance the image of the College, bring people together, and open doors for students who might not otherwise have the initiative to begin service. On the other hand, concerns were raised over “indentured service,” the addition of yet one more requirement, and the possibility of endangering our relationship with the community through a debased quality of service.

Others pointed to the difficulty of what would count as service if the requirement were established. Some raised the question whether serving as the coordinator for a service project in a fraternity could be considered in the same capacity as tutoring a child at the Ada Jenkins Center. Lourd challenged students to broaden their definition of a community, contending that whatever happens on the Davidson College campus directly impacts the surrounding community.

Although the discussion often reverted back to the issue of a requirement, Lourd challenged students to think of ways to promote service and accomplish the same goals without making service mandatory. At DePaul University, Lourd said, the level of students volunteering has risen from 300 to 1800 students out of 2100 total. “I am not convinced that the invitation to serve has been given,” Lourd said. He believes student participation may increase if avenues forService is broadened. Lourd stressed the importance of “finding your passion” for service. One possible option discussed was offering service as a way of fulfilling the Lifetime PE credit. Rather than ten hours of aerobics or juggling, students could spend three hours in skill training and preparation and seven or eight in practice. An example of integrating PE with service would be teaching basketball to neighborhood children. Two other issues discussed were service abroad and service learning. Since a large proportion of Davidson students already go abroad, a service component could be added to their experiences. In the context of service learning, each department could include one course in their offerings that incorporated service. Just as students must meet the Cultural Diversity requirement, students could fulfill a service component by taking a class in their chosen department. Lourd pushed students to go beyond the assignments on the syllabus and ask professors for service opportunities relating to their studies: “Those who take the initiative are the pioneers.” And, to stress the importance of service, he also adds, “Those without a vision will perish.”

Galhos will tell story of survival
By Ann Culp
News Editor

Bella Galhos, a Timorese human rights activist, will be speaking about her experiences under the Indonesian government tonight at 7 p.m. in the 900 Room. Galhos is one of three East Timorese in Canada who have escaped from what has been called the worst genocide per capita since the Holocaust. She has undergone forced sterilization in the Indonesian military’s attempt to wipe out the entire Timorese population. In addition, her two young brothers were killed by the military. To understand Galhos’ struggles is to understand the plight of East Timor, which was colonized by the Portuguese. On December 7, 1975, the Portuguese left East Timor, and the Timorese declared their independence. Just days later, the Indonesian army invaded and annexed East Timor, even though the small country had no historical ties to Indonesia. Over the last 21 years, more than 200,000 East Timorese—about a third of the 1975 population—have died. Although the U.S. voted for the U.N. resolution calling for the withdrawal of Indonesian troops from East Timor, it continued to deliver arms to Indonesia unabated. In 1979, Noam Chomsky and Edward Herman reported that “when the press deals with Timor it generally presents as fact the latest handout of the Indonesian propaganda agencies...or else reports the iniquity of the resistance, compliments of Indonesian generals.” The State Department observes the same conventions in its book The Washington Connection and Third World Fascism. The authors believe that it is due to Indonesia’s rejoining of the Free World as a fully-accredited member and stamping out of communism in October 1965 that encourages the U.S. to give support to atrocities. As a result, Indonesia was armed roughly 90% with U.S. equipment in 1975, according to Deputy Legal Advisor of the State Department George Aldrich. The 1996 Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to Jose Ramos-Horta who has helped to raise awareness about East Timor. Illegal campaign contributions were made by Indonesia to the Clinton campaign, while the Clinton Administration planned to sell Indonesia nine F-16 fighter jets. Ramos-Horta claims that selling weapons to Indonesia “is like selling weapons to Saddam Hussein.” This sale spurred the Senate to limit arms sales over the summer. Ramos-Horta urges “quiet, firm, and sustained U.S. discussion with Indonesia. America, the European Union, and Australia can provide the moral leadership to right the wrong in East Timor with no cost to them or to Indonesia.”

German Symposium studies Weimar’s history
Weimar continues to be a favorite haunt of German scholars, 23 of whom convened on the Davidson campus Feb. 21-23. Davidson’s own Weimar scholar, Burkhard Henke, along with Susanne Kord of Georgetown University, and Simon Richter of the University of Maryland, organized the symposium, entitled “Culture Studies: Approaches to the City of Weimar.” The purpose of this international symposium was “to explore Weimar culture during the long eighteenth century (1640-1840) and showcase that exploration as a model for German cultural studies,” as stated in the catalog for the symposium. Presenters came to Davidson from Germany, Canada, and all over the U.S. Nineteen papers were presented, including topics such as women and music, propaganda and human rights, class and gender transgressions, the commodification of Weimar, and landscape gardening. All in all, the symposium was a huge success, with several presenters citing it as one of the best conferences which they have ever attended.