Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDPHONIAN YO’ MOMMA’S DAY

Dear Eric Sappy,

Although it goes against usual practice, The Davidphonian has decided to allow Eric Sappy to finally put his extreme intelligence
to good use by answering questions from all those stupid fucks out there...

Dear Eric Sappy,

I read your article last week and I was wondering what crimes members of the Davidsonian staff had committed. I
always knew that they were a crazy bunch of kids, but I never knew they were felons!!

Sincerely,
Kristen Richardson

Dear Kristen,

Well, Kristen, they have committed many crimes — of the heart and of the soul. Despite their hard work up
to forty hours a week to put out the best damn paper in the whole fucking south, they have given
us only articles filled with untruth. Did you know that Buster Burk is not really the president of the SGA?
I am. And that playground thing — yeah, right. What a stupid idea! Who could ever come up with that?
Only the agenda-setting editors of The Davidsonian. And the Faculty Executive Council did not deny the Veterans Day proposals! We
can all take that day off next year and have a sit-in. And the FLAG forum did not have to
be rescheduled, it really happened when it was originally supposed to be. I was there throwing eggs. And that Masters
Series — what a crock! Like Davidson could ever get famous people like that to play here.

Dear Eric Sappy,

I read your article last week, and I have a question. If the editors of the Davidsonian deliberately left the
crime report out of the newspaper because of heinous crimes that they themselves committed in the month of September, then
what is the “month in crime” box on page 5 of the September 30, 1996 edition?

Love,
Buster Burk

Dear Buster,

You shouldn’t be asking. We know that you were the “unknown male” who “exposed his genitals” to the poor, helpless
victims at Lingle Manor on 9/2/96. I’ve seen you in that Maroon Grand Am. Put your pants on.

Dear Eric Sappy,

In your article last week you said that “the practice of not responding to an opinion in the same edition
which it is published” is “established journalistic practice.” If it is, then why do I sometimes see editors respond in
The New York Times, Washington Post, Newsweek, Libertas, and Time?

Regards,
Tom “buy it, it’s cheaper” Wicker

Dear Tom,

It’s all liberal trash.

Dear Eric Sappy,

Why did you put a [sic] ([sic]) by “bald assertion” when quoting the editors of The Davidsonian? “Bald” may be
used as an adjective, as in “bald-faced lie.”

Much love,
Elizabeth Mills

Dear Elizabeth,

I would prefer it if they used “bald” to refer to a person with no hair. “Bald” should be used
as an adjective to describe this condition, as in “Dr. Kuykendall is half bald.”

Dear Eric Sappy,

Regarding your article last week, please elaborate on your perception of the word “biased.”

Cheers,
John Heil

Dear Dr. Heil,

I am surprised, and honored, that you are asking me. The word “biased” is an adjective meaning “not agreeing with
the correct view.” In most cases, the correct view is one based on good morals and good, clean, heterosexual fun.
Just look at the article on the front page of the April 7, 1997 Davidsonian. There are many quotes from
Friends of Lesbians and Gays members saying that they did not want the chapter to fold. Because the newspaper published
this article, gay people are now “coming out.” That is because all members of the Davidsonian staff are gay and
they like gay people a lot. Gross.

Dear Eric Slappy,

What do you think of FLAG?

Love,
Georgia Ringle

Dear Georgia Ringle,

I think that those boys and girls will find their way one day, with the help of the number one
best selling book in the world.

Journalistic ethics finally reach campus with new building

By WALTER KRONKITE
Ghost Writer
President of Americans for an American Way of being American

Eric Sapp ‘98 was back on campus for the groundbreaking ceremonies for the Sapp School of Journalistic Ethics building this
Tuesday. Sapp also attended his 25th reunion. Sapp, College President Warren Buford, and seven of Davidson’s nine vice-presidents for fund-raising
took golden shovels to red-clay dirt to inaugurate the construction. Sapp has been active in...Davidson activities since his graduation. He
continued his lobbying for the official recognition of Veteran’s Day on the academic calendar. His campaign included Internet mass-mailings from
a site address, http://discriminated.whiteathletes@arrogance.com, and Sapp’s moving to Charlotte to attend SGA meetings. Additionally, Sapp’s efforts to prevent the teaching
of evolution in Davidson introductory biology classes were frustrated by an article published by Libertas. The article was a compilation
of Sapp’s 1995 Davidsonian articles arguing against the teaching of Darwin’s theories. The article ran without comment, and soon Sapp’s
on-campus support fizzled. In a press conference, Sapp said he noticed the need for a school of journalistic ethics when
he was a student here. “I noticed a rampant, appalling abuse of power among the editors. They would advance biased
opinions and then leave the editorials unsigned. They were the only people allowed to cower in anonymity,” he said. “The
front page became a soapbox for their causes. For instance, a prejudiced SGA denied a religious group its charter because
the group is homophobic. Well, the editors put the story on the front page, and don’t you know it, the
group got its charter back the next week. That sort of journalistic activism has no place at Davidson.” Thanks to
Eric Sapp, The Davidsonian will never again print a biased, opinionated article as “news.”

Come one, come all ... Buster’s Co-ed naked swing set extravaganza! Watch Buster get up & get down on North
Charlotte's largest nudist playground! Share yourself here! (flip-flops)

Davidsonian staff wins spelling bee this weekend
By Jon COPENHAGEN AND Marie CLAIRE JONICK

Spelling Bees
Keeping up their grand tradition of spelling, The Davidsonian staff won a really big old spelling bee this weekend. They
brought home the trophy after spelling the name of the Chairman of their Board of Trustees correctly. His name is
Olin Nisbet. They know this, although they attempted to spell it Olin Frankfurter. But then someone on the staff came
and told them that it was Nisbet, not Nesbit or Frankfurter. “You learn from mistakes!” said one eponymous member of
the staff. The staff also spelled correctly Kirkendoll, experiences, recommendation, repercussion, palatable, and pursue. “Congratulations,” says Dean Shandle. “We knew
you had it in you!”

Ed. note: Please note self-deprecation.

CRAZY JOBS

Self-Defense Classes
Don't depend on locked doors to keep you safe! Come take lessons from a locksmith/tae kwon do expert, and learn
how to prevent your own assault.

Sex and all that from page 1
the SBI is for. We came here and learned that almost every student was currently breaking the law or had
broken the law during his or her time here.” With a laugh, Winston says, “Now I enjoy a good blowjob
as much as the next guy, but the community just wouldn’t let up. They were thirsty for student blood. One
of the most vocal councilmen kept saying something about, ‘those darn immoral kids at that school messing up a good
community,’ and although I personally thought he was a wacko, we received orders from above to raid the school. “Wow,
there was some crazy stuff, I tell you. Kids were doing everything from the old hand under the shirt over
the boob trick to performing oral sex on one another in public. Can you believe that? There’s actually a fraternity
party where people perform sexual acts for money. The young woman who won last year has confessed to performing fellatio
on a guy on the dance floor, in front of everybody else at the party.” Winston declares, “It was pretty
much cut and dry after that. We pretended to be students, like Johnny Depp on that 21 Jump Street show,
and after we’d collected enough evidence to prosecute, we arrested the lot of them.” Referring to the process of collecting
evidence, he says, “It was fun. Let’s just leave it at that, okay?”

An anonymous staff person in the Residence Life Office says, “I’ve seen some wild things, believe you me. A while
ago, I was walking across Patterson Court at night, and I came across this couple on the sidewalk, buck naked
and trying to have sex. I immediately called campus police, and they sent down an officer to make the arrest.”
The RLO staff member states that the young man who was arrested appeared unable to perform because, “Well, he looked
pretty.”

See Sex! on page 5
