Che Dabii ALENDA LUX . UU Ba ORTA LIBERTAS  
DAVIDSON COLLEGE  
MONDAY, APRIL 21, 1997  
VOLUME 88, NUMBER 25

Trustees decide tenure, promotions  
By ANN CULP  
News Editor

At the Trustee meeting on Friday, four faculty members received promotions, two were tenured, and two were denied tenure. Ann Marie Costa and Jennifer Stasack (Music) were given tenure as associate professors. Trent Foley (Religion), David Martin (Economics), Richard Neidinger (Mathematics), and Luis Pena (Spanish) were promoted from tenured associate professors to professors.

The Faculty Handbook states that “the criteria for faculty evaluation at Davidson are: (1) excellence in teaching, (2) demonstration of superior professional attainments in research, scholarship, and curriculum design, and (3) exemplification of the intellectual and moral values for which the College stands.” Any tenure decision “must be based on convincing evidence that the candidate holds promise of making a continuing contribution of the highest quality to the intellectual and moral life of the community.”

A professor is hired either as a visiting or tenure track professor. On the tenure track, a professor is evaluated after two years by the Vice President of Academic Affairs. The President makes the decision to renew the professor’s contract or not.

After four more years, the professor normally enters the tenure review process. A Department Evaluation File containing letters and teaching observation reports is created for the departmental tenure committee. The committee votes on the tenure candidate and makes a recommendation to the Faculty Tenure Committee (FTC). After creating a Faculty Tenure Committee File on the candidate, that committee makes a recommendation on each tenure case to the President. The Vice President of Academic Affairs, serving as an ex officio member of FTC, makes a separate recommendation to the President. Finally, the Academic and Education Policy Committee of the Board of Trustees takes the President’s report and makes a final decision at its meeting in the spring.

Presidential speculation abounds as semester closes  
By MATTHEW ERRICO  
Associate Editor

Chair of the Presidential Search Committee Larry Dagenhart neither confirmed nor denied that Robert Vagt ‘69 has been slated as the next president of the College. “It remains to be seen,” he says. Dagenhart says that Vagt has not been offered the job, and that the Trustees are “two to four weeks away from a decision.” Friday’s The Charlotte Observer, citing unnamed official sources, reported that Vagt is “the leading candidate” to be the 16th president. Dagenhart did confirm that Vagt has been considered. At the beginning of its search, his committee solicited the names of possible candidates. Vagt’s was one of approximately 150 names received.

It has been rumored that Vagt has been chosen, and the announcement delayed because of business deals Vagt is arranging which would be negatively impacted by an announcement at this time. In response to this speculation, Dagenhart says, “There are numerous reasons for our not being able to proceed at this moment.” There has also been speculation that the announcement of the next president will be made when President Kuykendall gives his farewell address to the College and community in May. But Dagenhart says that the announcement is an event the Trustees “want to stand on its own.”

Vagt has not been employed in academic work since graduation. Vagt graduated with a B.A. in psychology and earned an M.Div.from Duke University in 1972. As a student, Vagt was a member of PiKA, the swimming team, the Psychology club, ROTC, the Social Council, and the Wildcat Handbook. He was also a hall counselor. Vagt has been heavily involved in Davidson affairs since graduation. He served as the chairman of the 1993-94 Annual Class Fund System, and from 1993-95 he was the chairman of the Annual Fund Leadership Council. In 1996 he was awarded the Alumni Service Award.

SERVES UP
Jon Pastel and his doubles partner Scott Briggs (not pictured) proved too much for the rest of the Southern Conference, taking the No. 2 doubles title this weekend at the league championships hosted by Davidson. See page 13 for the full story.

Anna Judy
Sexuality Forum came out late
By MATTHEW ERRICO
Associate Editor

Facing a bleak and uncertain future less than a month ago, FLAG rallied to hold its 4th Annual Sexuality Forum Sunday night in the 900 Room. Seniors Zac Lacy and Adriana Arcia and Lyman Collins ’79 spoke. Lacy and Arcia had come out at previous forums. The Sexuality Forum did not exist when Collins was a student or when he was a staff member here until 1982. He has been openly gay since 1982.

This was the first year in the history of the event that no student “came out.” The forum was not held on its original date because no one student was willing to “come out.” Lyman reflected that since he was a closeted student here in the late 70’s, the environment for homosexuals on campus has improved drastically. “When I was here, Davidson was a very different place. That there is an organization like FLAG says a lot,” he said. Lacy concurred. “The general spirit has changed. The campus is more accepting of gay and lesbian issues,” he said.

Arcia and Lacy said they had not experienced many overt acts of homophobia, but they did not doubt that they had been discriminated against in more subtle ways. Lacy’s one experience with overt homophobia came when he caught two freshmen tearing down a flyer for a previous year’s Sexuality Forum. Both seniors wished for a larger gay population on campus. Arcia is the only open lesbian on campus. “Sometimes you just want someone who knows what it’s like,” she says. Dating also proves problematic with so small a homosexual population. Finding a partner during his time at Davidson is “not feasible at this point,” Lacy said. He has given up looking.

The panel expressed concern that this year’s forum was not held on its original date. All three believe the forum serves an important and unique purpose, and should continue. “Hopefully my presence as a person who is out can help other people,” Arcia said. Lacy noted a trend toward the glamorization of homosexuality on other campuses, and wondered what would happen if that phenomenon reached Davidson. “I know at so many colleges now that it is totally en vogue to be queer. Can you imagine that here?” he asked. The audience broke into laughter. Citing statistics that two to ten percent of the population at large is homosexual, Arcia asked, “Where are you?”

Irene Middleton and Emmie Happoldt were announced as FLAG’s next co-presidents.

HOROSCOPE........... 12
SPORTS................. 13
NEWS BRIEFS........... 2
FEATURING PULL-OUT
ELSEWHERE............. 6
SPORTS SUPPLEMENT!
CROSSWORD............ 6
First Class Mail
EDITORIAL.............. 7
U.S. Postage Paid
OPINIONS............... 8
Permit #1
ARTS & LIVING......... 10
Davidson, NC 28036