THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, MARCH 17, 1997

‘Twenty member cast in search of an audience

By HEATHER LARSON
Arts & Living Editor

Beginning this Wednesday at 8 p.m. and running until Saturday, the cast and crew of Pirandello’s *Six Characters in Search
of an Author*, as directed by Dr. Rupert Barber, will entertain, inform, puzzle, and no doubt surprise audiences in Hodson
Hall.

“That’s the most interesting thing about the play to me,” says cast member Ben Summers. “It’s going to catch people
off guard. It’s not theater as most audience members will probably be accustomed to.”

Although to explain the details of the play’s unconventional nature would be to negate its impact, Dr. Barber stressed the
significance of the play in the scope of theatrical history: opening the doors for later nontraditionalist and absurdist modern theater,
a riot ensued after its first performance in the 1920s.

Josh Gaffga, playing the role of the father, concurred that the play’s strength lies in its ability to question and
challenge its audiences. The generally bright Davidson audience, Gaffga feels, will especially benefit from the play’s intellectual sensibility, and believes
most will find it refreshingly stimulating.

Jess Robblee, the stepdaughter in the fictitious family, claims the play “will leave you with questions about what is real
and what isn’t.” These issues of reality versus illusion parallel those of reason versus emotion, and the audience is called
upon to make judgments for themselves. This can only be done objectively, however, when all sides of the story have
been given.

Perhaps Pirandello’s main point of the play is this: pitting the many and widely differing perspectives of the characters to
display those perspectives’ disparity and contradiction. Therefore, “not only is there a battle of perspectives between those on stage, but
those in the audience are challenged as well,” says Robblee.

*Six Characters* is not all academic, Gaffga assures. Although he originally found it a bit stuffy to read, he claims
it has become highly exciting and fresh when acted out, pointing to the text’s depth as a resource for the
actors’ continual new discoveries about the play’s philosophy. He further credits some scenes of improv, which are never quite the
same each night, for adding a dimension of originality to the play in action.

Tickets for the play are on sale at the box office for $6 general admission and $4 for students (but
will be $1 off on the opening night). The large cast includes younger members, Bill Giduz’s daughter and Dr. Cain’s
son, as well as a host of Davidson students who all promise: this time, no riots.

Hanging by a thread

Senior art exhibition features sleepless shelters, dangling anvils, electric blankets

By PETER SIMPSON
Guest Writer

John Harmon’s senior show, *Sucker’s Shelter*, is on display until March 22 at the Smith Gallery in the VAC. Harmon
is a senior studio major from Arkansas, and the works are the culmination of his Davidson art career. The show
includes paintings, sculpture, photography, and video pieces which were all executed in a three-week period preceding the show, which is
a remarkable feat considering the quality of the entire installation.

There are two paintings on stretched canvas, four large panels which show a progression from a pure and rough style
of painting to a bare wall with a working electrical outlet and a small self-portrait hanging on it. One panel
contains a peephole that reveals a person sleeping, bringing up the issue of voyeurism as well as making a playful
comment on how the viewer looks at art.

The final work in the show is the most dramatic: a metal armature, welded to the frame of an actual
bed, supports a tent of electric blankets which house a video monitor and an anvil. A looped tape of a
rainfall plays on the monitor, thus forming a strange world bathed in digital light.

If you saw the show during the crowded opening, it deserves a second viewing; the work’s quiet strength can be
felt. Harmon has transformed the gallery space into a bizarre dream world populated by the recurring images of the bed,
the anvil, and his own self-portrait. The dream stateis furthered by the sounds of a spring rainstorm playing on the
video monitor hidden under the covers of the bed and by the subdued lighting. But this is not quality sleep,
for when you look at the images on the wall, you are struck by the inner tension of the self-portraits
staring back. The surfaces of these portraits are rough, and the paint has been loosely applied; one features Harmon with
a blue face, another is a drawing which has been applied to the canvas. There is a similarity between these
paintings and the work of Egon Schiele, an Austrian artist whose major works were created in the years before World
War I, capturing the anxieties and turbulent feelings of that time. While Harmon has shied away from the more sexually
overt nature of Schiele’s work, he has captured a similar level of taut anxiety and intense soul-searching.

This tension is especially evident in an untitled painting where Harmon places a drawing of himself under an anvil dangling
by a thin strand of rope. The anvil is reused in other images in the show; in a painting where
a figure is shown hiding under the covers of a bed, on the bedside table, in a drawing that serves
in place of a self-portrait in one of the large panels, and in the bed sculpture where an actual anvil
rests on the mattress. Harmon allows the anvil to have more significance than a mere pop icon: by placing it
over his head he equates the anvil with the worries and cares which dangle over all of us, and its
replacement of a self-portrait seems to be saying that he sees qualities of the anvil in himself. Like the anvil,
the image of the bed is repeated throughout much of the work with the large bed sculpture as the ‘sucker’s
shelter’ itself.

Speaking to Harmon about the show and his intentions, he said that he didn’t care how people felt upon viewing
it, as long as they were not ambivalent. Considering the personal subject matter and the truthful approach towards it, ambivalence
is the last attitude one should take away from Sucker’s Shelter.

BUILD YOUR RESUME. LEARN A NEW LANGUAGE. Become a Davidsonian webpage manager. Trainees desperately needed. Please call Clay @6801.

Women’s History Month begins. Hoorah.

8 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Blues in the Outpost
7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. Christine Schutt speaks in the 900 Room
7:30 p.m.-8:30 Craig Dean speaks about coming out in Chambers Gallery
Jumpin’ Java keeps you awake through those midterms. Coffeehouse serves doughnuts and coffee cheap in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m.-11:15
a.m.
Dr. Gregory Pence speaks in the 900 Room 7 p.m.-8 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java, where everybody knows your name, in the Outpost 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m.
Six Characters in Search of an Author opens in Hodson Hall 8 p.m.-10 p.m.
Armchair Adventure Series continues in the Home Room 8 p.m.-10 p.m.
Friends of the Sexually Abused Carolina Inn 8:30 p.m.-10 p.m.
Twenty-One Year Old Night celebrates St. Patrick’s day. Again. 900 Room 10:30 p.m.-12:30 p.m.

WEDNESDAY
Waist Away encourages people to lose those empty beer-calories in the 900 Room 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m.
Dr. William Small speaks in the Carolina Inn 7 p.m.-8 p.m.
Six Characters in Search of an Author repeats its stellar performance in Hodson Hall 8 p.m.-10 p.m.
Girls Town screens in the 900 Room 8 p.m.-11 p.m.
Take Back the Night promises a stirring evening in the 900 Room 7 p.m.-11 p.m.
Six Characters in Search of an Author shows again in Hodson Hall 8 p.m.-10 p.m.
FAC Pub, one of my favorite things in the 900 Room 4:30 p.m.-8 p.m.
Six Characters in Search of an Author plays once more in Hodson Hall 8 p.m.-10 p.m.
Girls Town shows again in the 900 Room 8 p.m.-10 p.m.
Six Characters in Search of an Author another time in Hodson Hall 8 p.m.-10 p.m.
Saturday Night Live should be something good in the 900 Room 8 p.m.-12 p.m.
Six Characters in Search of an Author closes its run in Hodson Hall 8 p.m.-10 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java brews it again in the Outpost 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m.
