THE DAVIDSONIAN Arts & Living MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1997

Hurricane Hugo Juggling Festival sets Davidson ablaze

By Carrie Morris
Associate Arts & Living Editor

This weekend, courtesy of juggling extraordinaire Bill Giduz, the College hosted a festival dedicated to juggling. A little bewildered? Yeah, me too; no idea that this could be serious. Call me short-sighted, but juggling?! But if you got through this entire weekend without the pleasure of running into these insanely fun, game junkies, you missed out. Kick yourself.

In Johnston Gym on Friday afternoon, a workshop lasting until midnight was held. Lunar Luau proved to be an ideal place to juggle fire and rile up crowds. Saturday morning, jugglers littered the lawn to show their expertise, and the halftime show at the football game was theirs for the taking. Mark Nizer hosted a show in Hodson Hall, and the games culminated at a show in the 900 Room that night. All ages were invited onstage to play. Some juggled, some had innovative ideas on how to drink water out of a cup, some shocked the crowd with magic tricks that ended up producing pink tissue paper underwear, and some made bad jokes which made the responsive, jovial audience squeal with glee. These renegades could do no wrong.

They come with big, black, weathered trunks full of toys. They dress up in pseudo-tuxedoes, tie-dye, Kermit the Frog, and Jurassic Park attire. They range in age from about 8 to 48. And I can safely say that they are having more fun than anyone.

I attended the Renegade Show in the 900 Room hosted by Mark Nizer (a.k.a. The Bad Boy of Juggling) on Saturday night, and I must admit—my naivete. Apparently, there is a sub-culture out there that I never knew existed. This crowd of mostly men, though not completely, were drinkin’ beer, eatin’ cold pizza, heckling each other with inside jokes, and laughing hysterically. The crowd was from all over—Florida, California, Virginia, Maryland, Atlanta, and, yes, North Carolina.

As I sat at the front door to stamp the hands of those over 21, I began to realize that this was just another stop on the road for some of these guys. Some had just come from a show in Atlanta, some just picked up here in Carolina, and for some, this was not the last venue. The non-jugglers in the crowd were amazed and fascinated (that was me...), and laughing along because it was, well, wonderfully funny. It sent me back, way back, to that elation I used to get at the circus every year. These performers are doing something that they love. It is a life of playing games and making audiences laugh and drop their jaws—what could be better?

The most intriguing aspect of this whole event was that it was an exposé of this wonderful talent that is based on fun and laughter. Nothing about it is pretentious, nothing is exclusive, and these masters of the games love every minute of it. It is a passion for enjoyment of themselves that is so attractive.

Paul Newman is Cool Hand Luke

The movie very well could have been titled Paul Newman is an Incredible Actor. Cool Hand Luke depicts a man’s struggle on a southern chain gang during the early 1960s. The film, released in 1968, no doubt caused quite a stir by its no-holds-barred look...At the brutality and corruption inherent in prison life. However, to those of us that have seen the more recent The Shawshank Redemption, life for the prisoners in Cool Hand Luke pales in comparison, evoking the atmosphere of a rigorous boot camp instead of a hellish prison. The chain gang serves merely as a canvas for the main character of the movie, Luke, played brilliantly by Paul Newman. Luke is sent to prison for destroying parking meters while on a drunken escapade. Once there, Luke clashes with just about everybody he possibly can: the evil warden, the sadistic guards, and the ringleader of the prison played by George Kennedy (Leslie Nielsen’s partner in The Naked Gun). He soon gains the prisoners’ respect through remarkable acts of will and stubbornness which included winning an egg-eating contest and taking a severe beating in a boxing match a la Robert DeNiro in Raging Bull. Although the prisoners now rally behind him, Luke continues to dig himself a deeper and deeper hole as he clashes further with authorities. I would neither do the movie justice nor fully arouse your interest in it without attempting to understand the character of Luke while praising the acting of Paul Newman. He is truly a non-conformist, an anti-hero, and a rebel loner. He is admired by men because of his great will and determination, yet rejects their praise and the eventual crown of martyrdom they force him to wear. His character is tinged with an otherworldliness and the deep search for meaning. It is not surprising that more than a few critics have compared the character of Luke to that of Christ. Luke remains an enigma. In a similar fashion to the way Newman finds the emotional heart of his character, his physical portrayal of Luke is dazzling. The camera is drawn toward Luke’s hard, burned, sweaty body while studying intently those famous blue eyes, a definite treat for any lady and enough to make any guy scurry down to the gym. So lay aside the books for a couple of hours, resist watching Tommy Boy again and go see Cool Hand Luke. Go bask in the performance of a truly great actor and go see if you can unravel the mystery of Cool Hand Luke. The film will be shown both Wednesday and Friday night in the 900 Room. It can also be found in the language lab or at the nefarious Blockbuster.

Bill Giduz

Some Lines on Woe Cat, Asleep Atop a Heap of Newspapers
Dom Talvacchio

Rest. Rest you easy, old lion; curl
Your hind legs over that smeared ink, dried-up
Letters on an already yellowing news page; breathe
Softly, or loudly, or however you want; you’re
Allowed this space, this time; go on and
Hang your paws over the jagged edge, made soft
By so many layers of staggered sections: Tuesday’s Travel
And Sunday’s Sports, Monday’s Money and Friday’s Food, stuffed
Deep into each other, just right for a cat’s bed; just right
For your bed, where you put to sleep not only your beautiful
Body, but also the body of words that are stifled beneath you.

Dom Talvacchio is a double major in English and Math from Moorestown, N.J.

Come to the Project Life Pasta Dinner. Friday, 6:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., on the lawn between Patterson Court and the Commons. $5 per person. Tickets on sale today and tomorrow in Chambers. Direct any questions to Kate Stevens (x6335).