THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1997

Davidson

By SARAH TEACHWORTH
Staff Writer

In making plans for this year’s Solidarity Week, Co-Curricular Vice President of the Union Board Jenny Everett searched for the
videotaped recording of Davidson’s first Solidarity Day, which took place in April 1986. William Brown, the College Union Director and
Coordinator of Student Activities, suggested that she call Steve Davis ’87, who had recorded that event. Davis, now the Vice
President for Smith Barney Plan Services, lives in the town of Davidson.

Everett never located the tape, but she did convince Davis to make a casual appearance at the CROP Lunch last
Thursday in the 900 Room of the Union. When a significant number of people had arrived to partake of the
weekly offering of rice, beans, and cornbread, Davis spoke informally to the group.

In the spring of 1986, word had gotten around that the Ku Klux Klan had registered with the town of
Davidson to march down Main Street. It was to be one of a few marches scheduled in the area. Signs
sprung up around town, announcing the event. In the words of Rob Vaughn ’86, who was the acting Union Board
President, “We were angry; we were galvanized, really, we were fighting mad.”

A group of conscientious students, headed by Vaughn, SGA President Mark Sandy ’86, and Pat Millen ’86, began to brainstorm
for ways to peacefully demonstrate the widespread opposition to the march. Brown is proud of the fact that “they didn’t
work because of their elected offices but because of their consciences.” Davis, in turn, gives much of the credit to
Brown, who he says, “was the person who trained us to observe things happening and react to them in the
appropriate way.”

After discarding a few ideas that were deemed to be potentially provocative, the students began making plans to hold Davidson’s
first Solidarity Day on the day of the march. Vaughn says that they wanted to “gather, black and white, in
solidarity, support, and celebration.” With only a short amount of time to plan, the organizers arranged for several speakers to
come and for Bobby Houck of the Blue Dogs to provide entertainment.

On the day of the march, most of the Main Street shops closed their doors. Students, staff, faculty, and residents
from both sides of the tracks gathered behind Vail Commons. Even the Soda Shop came to provide sandwiches to the
celebrants. Davis got misty-eyed as he recalled the beauty of seeing big, burly SAEs and PiKAs playing hacky sack with
little children from the community. The weather was fantastic and everyone had a wonderful time. “It was one of those
things you wish you could bottle up,” he says.

Because he was the man with the videocamera, he did remove himself from the festivities to videotape the march on
Main Street from the seclusion of a balcony on either Eu or Phi Hall. What he saw surprised him. He
had been prepared for a scene similar to those in the film “Mississippi Burning,” and instead saw thirty or so
bedraggled looking people coming down the road with hand-painted signs and speaking nonsense. About six of them were dressed in
KKK garb. As far as Davis could see, there were no spectators. “It was surreal,” he says. “It was like
you could hear the birds chirping and you thought ‘Why are these people here?’ It was pathetic.” One of the
demonstrators even got arrested for carrying a concealed weapon.

After Davis’ talk, students discussed what they had heard. There seemed to be a consensus that there should be more
publicity about the origins of Solidarity Week. Jenny Nolan ’99 said, “I think it’s amazing that Solidarity Week exists and
I think it’s too bad that more people don’t know why we have it.”Issues Service Through Leadership as National Goal
By Naresh Nagella — News Editor

On Tuesday night, Davidson students gained first-hand insight into the value of service and strong leadership from Elaine Chao, a
leader of many public and private charitable organizations throughout her career. Chao gave a speech called “Leadership: Making a World
of Difference” as a featured speaker during Solidarity Week in Love Auditorium.

She began her talk by building a personal and historical foundation for her call to serve through leadership. “One of
the best aspects of our country is our generosity, tradition, and spirit for giving. Volunteerism is a hallmark of this
country,” she said.

She began with an account of her family’s journey from Taiwan to America. Her parents met on a boat that
was blocked from returning to port during the Communist takeover of China. The boat eventually joined others that went to
Taiwan. Eventually, her father emigrated to America before the rest of Chao's family and worked to save enough money to
pay the family’s passage on a cargo boat three years later.

Emily Smith, Freshman Zaidee Rose, and Senior Dan Mojonnier listen to advice on service through leadership from Elaine Chao on
Tuesday.

She arrived in America at the age of eight and did not know the language. She praises the support of
all her neighbors in Queens who helped her and her family assimilate into their new country. “It was around this
time that I noticed how giving and kind our country can be. We must continue this help to keep the
immigrant dream alive,” Chao said.

After graduating from Mount Holyoke College and Harvard Business School, Chao became a White House fellow in the Reagan Administration.

Merit and Need-based Financial Aid Scholarship Applications Available in Financial Aid Office Deadline Soon

She ascended through the executive department, becoming an Assistant Secretary of Transportation and Director of the Peace Corps. She lists
dealing with the cleanup of the Exxon Valdez oil spill and trying to incorporate Peace Corps volunteers into rapidly democratizing
Eastern European countries as her biggest challenges. She cites the thousands of volunteers that tried to clean up the spill
and offered to serve in Eastern Europe as evidence of the American impulse and spirit to help.

From here, Chao went on to become the President of United Way, the largest private charity in America. At the
time she took the job, the company was reeling from ethics problems and mismanagement.

Attention students interested in a Rotary Fellowship: Rotary Scholarship Workshop Tuesday 2/18 4:00 pm

“I never planned or chose my intended career path. It was more like ‘fate’ or ‘destiny.’ I just wanted to
be a part of a solution,” Chao said.

Chao was instrumental in turning around United Way. Under her tenure, the organization regained much of its lost respect and
even took in 5% more than expected contributions. Chao says she learned much of what it takes to be a
good leader here. “I tried to form a shared vision, core values, mission, and challenges for all members of the
organization. The ability to build bridges is most important. Inspiring leaders, talking, and listening to people is imperative,” she said.

“The best way to use power is not to show but to give it out [to employees]. You must possess
a sense of compassion and have respect for the people who work with you,” she believes.

She concludes by saying, “People can do something interesting just by getting out of bed and contributing.”

“To whom much is given, much is required” is her basis for calling people to service. Chao is married to
Senator Mitch McConnell (R.-Kent.) and is a fellow at the Heritage Foundation.

Ford’s Seafood, BBQ, & Catering
Catering YOU can afford
Hwy. 21 South - Cornelius, NC
10% discount on Dinner Plates with your Davidson College ID
Digital Pager (704) 513-3552
Work (704) 892-3362
(704) 782-5770
Bill, Brian, & Marty, Owners
