Here are some of my concerns about all national social clubs at Davidson, both standing frats and possible future sororities.

1. Exclusivity (not the often mentioned “elitism,” which is different): It seems to me that the principle of exclusivity is
contrary to most of what we at Davidson try to teach our students. We - Faculty Voice Scot Denhart -
teachers and workers here preach and demonstrate and advertise and act out in our own lives principles of reward based
on achievement, of inclusion, of Christian love, of individual responsibility, of enlightened, critical inquiry. But the frats — and presumably
the sororities as well — teach our students, to the contrary, that acceptance and reward are based primarily on one’s
socioeconomic background, one’s sex, one’s race, one’s ability to parrot the dominant ideology of the group, and one’s skill at
doing the bidding of one’s peers and elders. Above all, the group chooses the individual, not the other way around.
This is just plain wrong.

2. Hypocrisy: As student social structures, the fraternities, and presumably the sororities, that we leaders at Davidson condone and support
through subsidized property on the Court, through advertising in college publications, through recruiting materials, indirectly through ATC student funds, and
through our institutional blessing, are hypocritical. We say “self-selection” but watch passively as frats “bid” and “rush” first-year men. On
the rare occasions in the past when a student has joined a frat without a bid, choosing to eat with
frat peers without having been invited to join an exclusive national organization with them, the worst sort of exclusionary behavior
has been seen. If we say self-selection, we should enforce it rigorously — with a lottery system based on written
student choices much like the women’s houses currently operate — and of course, independently of outside criteria. In addition, many,
if in some cases not all, of the “service” projects our local chapters of these national men’s social clubs carry
out seem to many to be only penance for their sins.

3. Traditions: Are we still beholden to Davidson’s pre-1970s legacy of racism and misogyny? Our frats are better than most,
some claim. Sure there are worse frat scenes in American higher education, but comparative arguments fall flat. This is our
community, and we should form it as we see best. The legacy of racism and the active misogyny of the
frats call for a clean sweep, a new vision, an innovative and progressive and moral and humane plan. Davidson has
come a very long way in the last generation. I don’t think that the students who join KA, for instance,
know that their resumés carry a concrete stigma of racism and antisemitism for many non-Southern professional recruiters. Blue-blooded, nepotistic old
boys networks are passé. If Davidson is indeed different from many of our peer schools — and I think we
are — then a revitalized, humane, fair, and responsible student social scene is something else that could set us apart.
As things stand now, and from the appearance of where things are going, we are making ourselves only more like
other schools.

4. President Vagt’s leadership: If there is to be any meaningful positive change in what we, who lead this college,
offer our students as a social structure, then that change has to come at President Vagt’s initiative and has to
come in the first year or two of his tenure here, I believe. Otherwise, the status quo will be blessed
by inaction and nothing will change. As it stands now, the practical problems of hypocrisy in alcohol policy and self-selection
as well as the hegemony of adolescent male hedonism on the Court flies in the face of what we preach
here. Equity, schmequity: I don’t see why we can’t offer the practical solution of having places for students to eat,
to socialize, to party, to organize meaningful service projects, and all the rest, without the hollow hocus-pocus of brotherhood rituals,
without imported rules from national social clubs designed to function at huge state universities, without the real dangers of hazing,
without the insulting and destructive misogyny of the frats here. How about all coed houses, six or eight in all,
with assignments by lottery based on some element of student choice? Any newly opened real estate on the Court could
go to interest groups — the International Student Association, student organizations squeezed for space until the new union is built,
dorm rooms, with the frats. Or how about a more and better café/bar/bistro than the Outpost? Anchor some of the
houses thematically, perhaps: one is kind of sporty, another kind of artsy, another kind of international. Orif that’s too radical,
how about three coed houses, three all-male, three all-female? Let students state a preference, then do random assignments, giving their
choices some influence. Sever all national ties; force houses to have equal numbers of members, more or less. With the
monies saved by eliminating dues payments to national organizations, perhaps assign local dues as seed money for Union/house or house/house
co-sponsored social events (lots of good weekend music with good live bands). With a real alcohol policy, additional money would
be freed up for other innovative social outlets.

There are certainly many other ideas that the Davidson College community could come up with that would end the hypocrisy,
curb the misogyny, decrease the endemic alcohol abuse here and instead be creative, fair, democratic, humane, energetic and above all
— our own: Davidson’s student social scene! It shouldn’t be SAE’s or Duke’s or Princeton’s or Williams College’s or Furman’s
or anybody else’s social scene, but instead our own, and indeed President Vagt’s, unique scene. The generational memory here is
very short. After four years, time is eternal. Change is possible. We must do better.

Scott Denham is an Associate Professor of German.

Stop the insanity

To the Editor:

When we left last spring, the five of us didn’t think there was a serious possibility sororities would come to
Davidson, but apparently we were wrong. Lately our tea-time discussions here in London seem to revolve around the disturbing news
we hear in bits and pieces from the Davidsonian and e-mail from friends. And the more we hear, the more
appealing Europe sounds as a place to finish up our college years. Being across the ocean, we feel powerless in
trying to stop this nonsense, but we are trying our damndest by caring enough to write.

We've heard all the arguments and won’t rehash all of that. Being more removed from the details and little battles
of the situation, we feel we have a clearer view of the actual implications sororities will have at Davidson. It’s
not that we hate sororities, but we hate the changes they would make to the Davidson we love and yes,
even miss.

Hundreds of images flash through our heads as we anticipate our return. Will we be greeted upon our arrival by
floods of Tri-Delt clad freshwomen? Or what if we are mistaken for transfers and rushed by the eager Kappa representatives?
Will my roommate from last year have exchanged her Rusk hat for a sorority Chi-O/Davidson version? We'd prefer to remember
our FACs instead of anticipating rush lemonade socials complete with petit fours. Whatever its imperfections, we have confidence in the
eating house system and do not want to jeopardize it with unneeded additions to Davidson’s social scene. To sum it
all up: Stop the insanity.

Erin Sabrinsky
Courtney Pace
Brooks Chappelle
Rives Moore
Carolyn Fixel
Class of 1999
London, England

To the Editor:

Buster Burk, the SGA president, believes that “the opinion of the majority matters little.” Does this strike anyone else as
a dangerous position for an elected official to take? Even if these are not the words of Burk himself and
just a statement given by the Davidsonian editors, it does reflect the essence of his article. Maybe I am idealistic
to believe that we, the student body, chose someone to represent us, someone we thought would listen to our concerns
and do what was best for the school. I am sure Burk has done this for the most part. After
all, he created the Vamanos Van largely in response to student needs. But the minute he disregards the opinions of
the majority, he stops being our advocate. We elected a voice, not a dictator.

Years ago, the introduction of sororities was proposed. I have always been told that the movement failed because the women
of Davidson were against it. Why were we listened to then and not now? The SGA poll clearly indicates that
women are still opposed to their installment. Burk says sororities will give women equal opportunities. Equal opportunities for what? Having
connections later in life? Personally, I am insulted at the insinuation that I cannot get a job and make friends
on my own. Burk continues his argument by likening sororities to Friends of Lesbians and Gays. Sororities are not like
FLAG. FLAG provided an organization for a group of students who had nothing to rally behind. Women’s eating houses already
give females this outlet. As Dr. Ingram expressed in his article, comparisons between sororities and FLAG and the Black Student
Coalition provide an excuse to disregard popular opinion as well as trivialize the truly unrepresented. The majority of the students
do not want sororities. Whether Burk agrees or not, he represents us and should listen. The majority does matter. It’s
what elected Burk.

Amy Marks
Class of 1998

Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Friday at 6 p.m. Or
e-mail any submissions to editor in chief Michael Kruse at mikruse@davidson.edu. Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk,
preferably in WordPerfect. Keep all submissions under 400 words. The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions
as space requirements.
