Sophomore averaged 19.3 points a game this week.

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1997

O’Brien earns MVP as Wildcats win Roundball Invitational

Champs from page 20

“The best thing about the weekend was that it was an entire team effort,” said all-tournament performer Katy Kamp, who notched a career-high 24 points in Saturday’s semifinal win over Canisius.

After an Emily Steinmetz jumper cut the Davidson lead to seven with 15 minutes to play, the Wildcats used a 14-6 run over the next five minutes to ice the game. Tournament MVP Jen O’Brien led the Wildcats with 19 points and seven assists Sunday.

“The win over Charleston last weekend (Nov. 29) took some pressure off us and we have been playing well ever since,” O’Brien said. “Offensively, things are going well, but we have to rise a couple of notches on the defensive end.”

The Wildcats did limit the Eagles to 29 second-half points Sunday, holding Eagle guard Jessica Henry scoreless after she exploded for 15 first-half points.

“We keyed in on her in the second half,” O’Brien explained. “Our help defense definitely improved. We just need to realize that all five players need to play intense defense at all times.”

Kamp followed Saturday’s contest with an 18-point, eight-rebound performance Sunday. Jennie Vanlenberghe and Jessica Montrella added 14 and 12, respectively.

In Saturday’s 103-82 pasting of Canisius, the Wildcats set a program high for most points scored in a game. Davidson used a 10-0 run midway through the second half to shake the Golden Griffins. Twelve Wildcats scored, four in double digits. Besides Kamp’s 24, O’Brien scored 23, and Montrella added 11. Jamie Brown recorded a double-double, tallying 16 points and 13 rebounds.

Despite leading for much of the first half, Davidson trailed at the intermission 45-44. It was the last time the Golden Griffins led.

In this weekend’s performance, the Wildcats (4-3) proved how explosive they can be. The key is now consistency.

“That’s something we’ve really got to work on,” O’Brien said. “We tend to play to our competition’s level. That’s good against teams like Vanderbilt, but we seem to get taken out of the game by teams like Saginaw Valley St.”

Tech from page 20

On three straight three-point baskets, tallying a career-best nine points. Leading Georgia Tech’s offense was Betsy Foy, who had 22 points, hitting 7-of-15 field goals. Carla Munnion added 18 for the Lady Yellow Jackets, hitting four from three-point range.

THE BATTLE OF MECKLENBURG COUNTY
Davidson vs. UNC Charlotte hoops doubleheader
* Wednesday night at Halton Arena

The victory comes almost three weeks after the Wildcats nearly upset then No. 10 — now No. 7 — Vanderbilt. The Wildcats led virtually the entire way before the Commodores escaped with the victory.

“The key was our ability to follow through and finish our great effort,” Mall said.

Daniel Motz contributed to this report.

Filar gets 50th win in Canisius game

Kamp notchesCareer High on Saturday
By Daniel Motz
Sports Editor

In Saturday’s victory over Canisius, coach John Filar collected his 50th career win.

Women's Basketball Notebook

The all-time winningest coach in Davidson women’s basketball history, Filar has transformed a program that could not compete on the Division I level in 1991 into a solid Southern Conference contender. In his sixth season as head coach of the Wildcats, Filar has compiled a 50-84 mark.

Official History

While Davidson eclipsed the program’s all-time record point total of 100 in Saturday’s 103-82 victory, history was made in the game as soon as the first whistle sounded. Garry Roberts and Beverly Roberts became the first father-daughter to referee a game together in NCAA history. Judy Stroud also worked the game.

As injuries have plagued the Wildcats the past two seasons, staying healthy is a primary concern for Filar and his staff this season. Although the team so far has remained relatively healthy, Jessica Montrella gave Filar and the team a scare Saturday midway through the second half when she took a blocking foul to prevent a fastbreak layup.

“I hit my neck on the floor,” said the junior forward. “It’s a little sore, but it will be OK.” Montrella did not return after the fall, but she did play Sunday, scoring 12 points.

Kamp Has Stellar Weekend

This weekend was a coming out party of sorts for sophomore center Katy Kamp. In Saturday’s win, she notched a career-high 24 points. She followed that with an 18-point, eight-rebound effort in Sunday’s championship victory. For the all-tournament performer, the weekend was a big step in what had been a frustrating season.

“I broke my ankle over the summer and I’ve been working hard to make it back,” said Kamp. “It is really exciting to get back on the floor.”

The Wildcats shined not only on the floor, but off the floor as well. The team has been selling T-shirts to raise money for a Charlotte family in need for this holiday season. After Sunday’s win, the squad met the family and presented them with a check.

The effort was organized by former Wildcat Molly Barry — formerly Molly Burke. The 1996 graduate had been working as a financial aid administrator at a Charlotte business school. There she got in contact with the mother of the family.

“We had been talking about doing something like this,” Barry said. “We knew it wouldn’t be possible at the business school, but I thought it could be a possibility here.”

Davidson Sports Information

The Wildcats’ win over Canisius marked coach John Filar’s 50th career victory.

Wanted!!!!

TRIPS

http://www.icpt.com

Individuals, Student Organizations, and Small Groups to Promote Spring Break Travel Packages. Earn Substantial MONEY and FREE Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS 1-800-327-6013

Courtesy of the Pacific-10

Davidsonian Sports

From Tucson to Albany, from Greenville, N.C., to Charleston, S.C., the Davidsonian Sports Staff will be on press row across the country over Christmas break to bring you expanded men’s and women’s basketball coverage.

DIVISION I COVERAGE FOR DIVISION I SPORTS.