THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING | some eclectic

Davidson Instrumental Ensembles blow through Southern stages

By JEFFREY CROMARTIE
Assistant Arts Editor

The Davidson Instrumental Ensembles concluded their spring tour with energy and style. The group spent half of its spring break
performing in Rutherfordton, NC, Hattiesburg, MS, and Mobile, AL, before returning to Davidson, where the group played last Thursday night.

The ensemble opened with an original composition by William “Doc” Lawing entitled “Fanfare on All Hail, O Davidson” which presented
Davidson’s highly endowed brass section. The ensemble moved on to skillfully perform works composed by Armas Jarnefelt, Gustav Holst, and
Alfred Reed. The gifted musicians delighted audiences throughout the South with Holst’s Second Suite in F Major, Opus 28 B
(which has a great Green Sleeves section). Although all the players exhibited excellent skills, seniors Mary Baxter on oboe and
Jay Hudson shined in several sections.

Following the Wind Ensemble’s performance, the Jazz Band took center stage, geared up, and blew everybody away with quite a
few toe-tappin’, get-down tunes. The seasoned lungs of senior Tom Vanderbloemen aided the trumpets in taking the lead in several
tunes such as Brass Machine by Mark Taylor and a Mike Hammer song. And what would a performance be without
a stunning solo by master trombonist, senior Steve Duncan? Duncan is currently being fought over by all the leading performing
arts grad schools. If you haven’t heard Steve play, you are missing out. Derek Kverno also caught everybody’s attention with
a flowing improv on his soprano sax.

Overall, the group was well-behaved on the road, so I couldn’t dig up a lot of gossip. Although, Lewis Hoffman
did rather slyly spike the punch at the Cromartie homestead — heaven forbid! All these folks invest a great deal
of time and effort into creating music for everybody at Davidson to enjoy, which is obvious from their fine performance
last Thursday.

Snap, Crackle, Pop! U2’s new album makes fun new noise

By JAMES BERRY
Staff Writer

U2’s latest amalgamation, the elusive Pop, is a far cry from Bono’s early promise of a return to basic rock.
But no one knows what these four are going to end up with when they disappear into the studio —
least of all U2. As a follow-up to the crowded sketchpad that was Zooropa, Pop has enough continuity to be
dubbed a “musical direction” and affirms that the 90s haven’t left the boys entirely scattered.

Like their first foray into the realm of dance grooves, this new record uses technology almost to the point of
musical molestation. I recently heard someone confess, “I liked them when they played guitars.” Surprise, they've been playing guitars the
whole time — not that they’ve been obvious about it. Find comfort in the fact that Pop takes one small
step backwards. While a lot of the sounds on the album dodge identity like movie stars in a mini-mall, the
guitars have returned. The second single, “Staring at the Sun,” even puts an acoustic at the front of the mix.
You can’t ask for much more these days. Give me a break!

Some of the images conjured by these two are rather poignant. On “Gone,” Bono laments “Goodbye / You can keep
this suit of lights / I’ll be up with the sun,” presumably growing a little weary of the rock persona
he’s been lugging around for so long. But Pop isn’t all disenchantment. U2 survives on a healthy dose of humor
as well. On “The Playboy Mansion,” the words slide over an easy groove and lightly funked...guitar. “If beauty is truth
/ And surgery the foun- tain of youth / What am I to do / Have I got the gifts
to get me through / The gates of that mansion.” Bono’s still hung up on the paradoxes inherent in everyday
existence (a style that first appeared on Achtung Baby and got so much worse by Zooropa), and Pop doesn’t really
ease up, but the album has enough of a mix to keep the resulting whole fresh. The themes floating amidst
the album’s processed waves, while not overtly apparent on the first listen, certainly converge on a few paramount ideas. Just
about every song has some reference to God or Jesus, but don’t jump to any Joshua Tree conclusions. On “Mofo,”
the most techno of the bunch, Bono grumbles “Lookin’ for to fill that God-shaped hole.” Maybe the most cynical of
the album’s collection is “Wake Up Dead Man.” The title refers to the 2000-year-dead Jesus. An interesting addendum to this
doubting slant is that Bono’s vocal delivery seems to have lost some of its punch. It lacks the earnestness that
covered the earlier recordings. It’s not bad, just different, and makes one wonder how connected Bono is to his lyrics.
In terms of sound, Pop doesn’t lend itself to simple definition. Most production credit goes to Flood who has gathered
acclaim working on earlier U2 albums and with groups such as Nine Inch Nails and Smashing Pumpkins. Most of the
rhythms are programmed or looped by Larry Mullen giving an electronic see Bono page 12

Geoff Eloge opens his senior art exhibit in the Smith Gallery at the VAC. Velvl Greene, director of the Sir
Immanuel Jakobovits Center for Jewish Medical Ethics at Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, speaks on “Public Health in the US
and Israel: An International Perspective” in Chambers Gallery 4:30 p.m. Jumpin’ Java kicks off the week in the Outpost 7:30
p.m.-12:30 a.m. Coffeehouse makes the morning all better in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m. Jumpin’ Java hits the Outpost
again 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. Rebekah Peeples, senior, gives a piano recital in Hodson Hall 8:30 p.m.-10 p.m. Twenty-One Year Old
Night promotes healthy student relations in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m.

Waist Away does it again in the 900 Room 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. Barbara Bergman, author of In Defense of Affirmative
Action, speaks on “The Case for Affirmative Action” in Chambers Gallery 5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. Sarah Weddington, who argued Roe v.
Wade in front of the Supreme Court, speaks on “Roe v. Wade, Past, Present, and Future” in Love Auditorium 7:30
p.m.-9 p.m. Erika Rissing and Abigail Showalter, juniors, perform a horn and voice recital in Hodson Hall 8 p.m.-9:30 p.m.
Maybe, Maybe Not No, really, it’ll be there in the 900 Room 9:30 p.m.-11:30 p.m. Wheelchair Basketball Tournament begins too
early in the morning in Baker Sports Complex 8 a.m.-11 a.m. CROP Lunch serves beans and rice in the 900
Room 11:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. Lea Williams, author of Servants of the People: The 1960s Legacy of African American Leadership, speaks
on “Fannie Lou Hamer: The Voice of a Student Leader” in the 900 Room 4 p.m. Pot Luck Dinner promises
an interesting meal in the 900 Room 6:30 p.m. Neil Levine, Professor of Fine Arts at Harvard University, lectures on
“The Significance and Legacy of Frank Lloyd Wright’s Architecture” in Chambers Gallery 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. K’nesha Maddox, junior, performs a
voice recital in Hodson Hall 8 p.m.-9:30 p.m.

FRIDAY
Wheelchair Basketball Tournament makes me ashamed of my out-of-shape self in Baker Sports Complex 8 a.m.-11 a.m. Coffeehouse features tasty
Krispy Kreme doughnuts in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m. FAC Pub rocks the 900 Room 4:30 p.m.-8 p.m. Maybe,
Maybe Not closes the FAC Pub 8 p.m.-10 p.m.

SUNDAY
Easter Break celebrates the reason for the season with four days off.
