This 6-9 team is going places. What a difference a year makes. After starting the 1996 season with a promising 4-2 record, the Wildcats dropped 13 of their last 16 games, stumbling to a final 7-15 mark. This year, Davidson began the season 0-5, but they have won six of their last ten, including three in a row. And right now the Wildcats are one of the best 6-9 teams in the country. “Right now, we're playing like a top 20 team,” said goalkeeper Brad Stroble after Davidson beat North Carolina this week. “There is no doubt about it.”

Last year’s long downhill spiral commenced on Sept. 24. A 5-0 loss to UNC Greensboro initiated a nine-game losing streak for the Wildcats, their longest streak in 19 years. Almost a year later to the day, the turnaround this year was Sept. 21. Then, the Wildcats defeated Southern Conference rival and regional power Furman 3-1, seemingly giving the youthful Wildcats the jolt that they needed. But records cannot begin to illustrate the differences between these two teams. “We have different personnel this year,” coach Charlie Slagle said. “It is just a different team.”

With four freshmen and two sophomores starting for Davidson, the flavor of this team is indeed fresh. And while this young team needed a transition period to grow accustomed to both each other and the college game, their heart and effort could never be questioned — unlike last year. The 1996 Wildcats, consisting of nine seniors, dropped eight contests by three goals or more. During their nine-game slide, they were outscored 32-4. This year, seven of Davidson’s nine losses have been decided by a single tally. When the Wildcats step onto the field this year, a talented squad may defeat Davidson. But the Wildcats will fight hard until the final horn and they rarely will beat themselves.

And the Wildcats are performing on the field. Quietly marching toward a Southern Conference regular season title with wins over Furman and UNCG, Davidson controls its own destiny. With victories in their final four games, all conference contests, the Wildcats would earn the No. 1 seed in the conference tournament. But regardless of this year’s outcome, there is a feeling that a foundation has been built. “We know that we are young and that we are good,” Stroble said. “And in all honesty, this might not be our year. But with the way things have been going, you never know. This year looks pretty good, too.” And while the young talent will continue to grow, last year’s team demonstrated that there is much more to making a program successful. These kids have figured that out.

Men’s soccer team making its move
Liz Reic

The men’s soccer team celebrates its victory over Carolina Thursday at Richardson. The Wildcats also stunned Wake Forest Sunday in Winston.

Wildcats shock Carolina, No. 15 Wake
By Daniel Morz
Senior Staff Writer

All season long, they said that they could do it. This week, they proved it. By shutting out ACC powers North Carolina 2-0 and Wake Forest 1-0, the men’s soccer team (6-9) proved they can compete with virtually anybody in the country. “Obviously, these are two great wins for us,” said coach Charlie Slagle after the Wildcats defeated Wake Forest. “To beat those teams shows we are playing very well right now.”

Wildcats 1
Wake 0

See Men’s soccer on page 14

Men’s hoops opens practice
Expectations sky high
By Michael J. Kruse
Editor in Chief

Roughly 12 hours after Duke opened practice with pomp and fanfare in front of a sell-out Cameron Indoor Stadium crowd and a national TV audience on ESPN’s Midnight Madness, Davidson’s men’s basketball team — the opposition in the Blue Devils’ home opener Nov. 20 — officially began its NCAA drive amid the relative silence of Belk Arena. The Wildcats ended what coach Bob McKillop last March predicted would be the most productive off-season in Davidson basketball history and began practice Saturday at noon.

“I’m so glad that it’s started. It has finally begun,” said Chadd Holmes, the Wildcats’ starting center last year. “The preseason, it always just seems so long,” said guard Billy Armstrong, who will captain the Wildcats this year along with backcourt mate Mark Donnelly. “We can’t wait to go back to regular practice. I’m really excited to get the season under way.”

“There are always nerves on the first day, but we're going to be anxious more than nervous,” assistant coach Jason Zimmerman added. “The preseason has been great, but now you turn it up a notch. We're ready to go.”

But for the Wildcats, Saturday's action marked more of a continuation than a beginning. Since the first weekend of March, when Davidson fell 77-70 to eventual league champion and Sweet 16 participant Chattanooga in the Southern Conference semifinals at the Greensboro Coliseum, the squad — both coaches and players — have pointed to this.Season as the one in which the Wildcats could, and perhaps even should, end the school’s 12-season NCAA tournament drought. In August, the squad traveled to Italy and faced stiff international competition. Upon returning to campus shortly before classes started, the team began playing pick-up on a daily basis and conducting its own informal practices. Saturday’s practice just made it official — 1997-98 has arrived. And the Wildcats boast one of, if not the deepest, most talented, and experienced rosters in the conference. Every preseason magazine has pegged Davidson as the class of the league’s Northern Division and most of them label the team as NCAA tournament material. “If we stay healthy, if potential is converted into production, we have an opportunity in front of us to bring national attention to Davidson College,” coach Bob McKillop said in an interview Friday. While over 9,000 watched Duke christen what

See Men’s hoops on page 14

Undefeated Methodist spoils Homecoming, tops Wildcats

Reeling football team suffers fourth straight loss

By Jack Morse
Staff Writer

The change of scenery only led to more frustration. The football team returned home to Richardson Field after a three-game, three-loss road trip and dropped its fourth straight Saturday against Methodist College. And that’s exactly what happened. The biggest of which came when Tommy Dugan went down with an ankle injury. For a while, everything was going according to plan. The Wildcats were up 16-13 over the Monarchs, the 12th-ranked team in Division III. The Wildcats’ defensive line, which was outweighed by an average of 90 pounds, had shut down the strong Methodist running game that came into the contest averaging 185 yards per game. So Davidson’s game plan was to make Methodist pass.

Football
Methodist 19, Wildcats 16

Men's soccer
Wildcats 3, Bucknell 1
Wildcats 2, Carolina 0
Wildcats 1, Wake Forest 0

Women’s soccer
Wildcats 6, Chattanooga 0
Wake Forest 2, Wildcats 0

Field hockey
Wildcats 6, Siena 1
American 4, Wildcats 0
Wildcats 3, Va. Commonwealth 2 (2OT)

Volleyball
Wildcats 3, Wofford 1
Furman 3, Wildcats 1

Cross Country
Men: 12th of 14 at N.C. Intercollegiate Championship

Monarch quarterback Brian Turner connected on 13 of 21 passes in leading Methodist to its sixth win this season in as many tries. “They haven’t really had to throw against anybody,” said coach Tim Landis. “They just ran the ball against people and hadn’t really been challenged. We made them throw the football — that was our game plan. They threw it and made some big plays.” With 1:16 left in the game, Turner made a perfect 26-yard pass to Leonard Bellamy in the end zone to steal the three-point victory. But Davidson had controlled the game up to that point. The fireworks started after a scoreless first half. After going up 2-0 on a safety, Davidson received the ensuing kickoff and backup quarterback Matt Strader took the helm after starter Tommy Dugan went down with an ankle injury. The Wildcats drove the ball down the field for a touchdown by fullback Eric Ferguson — the super sophomore had 14 rushes for 147 yards. But he had help, as Nate Hagerman provided 44 yards on 10 rushes. “We just lined up against them,” Landis said, “and nobody’s ever tried to

See Football on page 15

Dane Erickson
Saturday @ Randolph-Macon (1:30 p.m., WCGC 1270 AM, WSAT 1280 AM)

Men’s Soccer
Friday vs. Appalachian St. (7:00 p.m.)
Sunday at Georgia Southern (1:00 p.m.)

With 4:03 remaining in Sunday’s bout with 15th-ranked Wake Forest, this freshman phenom out of Lakewood, Colo., tallied the dramatic game-winner from just outside the penalty box, giving the surging Wildcats their third straight victory.

Women’s Soccer
Tomorrow at Furman (7:00 p.m.)
Saturday vs. Richmond (1:00 p.m.)

Volleyball
Tomorrow @ UNC Greensboro (7:00 p.m.)

Field Hockey
Friday vs. William & Mary (TBA)
Sunday @ Radford (2:00 p.m.)

Swimming & Diving
Saturday @ Emory Relays (Noon)

Men’s Soccer
Sunday @ Georgia Southern (1:00 p.m.)

The Wildcats attempt to maintain their status as frontrunner in the race for the Southern Conference regular season title. Coming off recent wins over ACC powers Carolina and Wake, Davidson now shifts its focus to league play — and the Eagles.