The Goodwin-Exxon Awards — Established by Henry S. Goodwin of the Class of 1930 and Claire Goodwin and funded in part by the Exxon Education Foundation, these awards go annually to a sophomore, a junior, and a senior adjudged to exemplify the highest standards of character, good sportsmanship, and consideration of others.
Class of 1998 — Joy Michelle Sparks
Class of 1999 — Brian Gillis Campbell (abroad)
Class of 2000 — Andrew Scott Holbrook

Patterson Court Council House Excellence Awards — Given each fall by the council to recognize outstanding achievements in the areas of service, spirit, and scholarship demonstrated by the members of Patterson Court organizations.
For Scholarship — Connor House and Sigma Phi Epsilon
Belk Cup for Scholarship — Connor
For Service — Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Rusk
Honorable Mention: Phi Gamma Delta (Fiji)
For Spirit — Rusk
Honorable Mention: Warner Hall

The Alumni Association Freshman Award — Presented annually since 1917 to the sophomore who attained the highest academic average during the freshman year.
James Wilson White, III

Thomas Jefferson Award — Established by the Robert Earll McConnell Foundation, presented annually to a faculty member who by personal influence, teaching, writing, and scholarship promotes the high ideals of Jefferson and who has given generously and well beyond the call of duty.
Robert Chadwell Williams

The R. Stuart Dickson Professorship — This professorship was established in 1994 by the Dickson Foundation and the Ruddick Corporation to honor longtime Davidson trustee R. Stuart Dickson, Class of 1951.
Julio J. Ramirez

ALTERNATIVE BREAKS
Sign-ups for the upcoming alternative breaks for the spring were due on Oct. 30. However, more trips are being planned and new ideas are welcome. Contact Bill Abrams at x2460 with questions or ideas. Get involved in community service this spring break abroad or in the U.S.

CLOTHING DRIVE
Friendship Baptist Church is holding a clothing drive to provide relief for people in Liberia. Liberia is recovering from a recent civil war and is in dire need of relief in any form. If anyone can provide clothing, a box will be located in the union basement outside of Bill Abrams' office. Boxes will also be located in the Union pit Nov. 3-7 for a clothing drive to benefit the Room in the Inn program.

INTO THE STREETS
Running through Sunday, this is an annual program of two weeks' worth of service opportunities designed to create awareness for service. ITS also serves to unite students and community while educating about problems society faces today. Projects will range from working on habitat houses to painting the construction wall. For more information, contact Emily Katzfey at x6185 or Andrew Letizia at x6568.

PROJECT LIFE
Don't forget, the annual bone marrow drive will be Nov. 18-19 in the Union.

INTERNSHIPS
If you are interested, now is not too early to plan one. Call career services at x2492 or Bill Abrams at x2460 for leads and opportunities.

Services Needed:
* Playground developers — Susan Yaguda of the Children’s School House at 948-4547
* High School Tutor — Tamara Wilson at 664-3807
* Male Tutor for 10-year-old boy — Liz Thomason at 896-7591
* Mentors for three children (two boys, one girl) — 895-9403
* Tutor for 11-year-old girl — Deborah Ihle at 947-9191
* Big Brother for 5th grader — Linda Nutt at 892-1959
* Tutor in Math and Science for 8th grader — Debra Black at 892-6118
* Math Tutor for young girl — Debbie Barnett at 892-2067
* Tutor for 12th grade boy — Helen Smith at 892-9962
* Tutor needed — Christina McElroy at 664-4369
* Morning Preschool Teachers — Candice Tritle of Bethel Presbyterian Church at 896-3103
* Tutor needed to supervise homework time for two children (10 and 9 years old) in reading and math (paid) — call Mr. or Mrs. Dominic at 662-6544 after 6:30 p.m.

Compiled By Mike Brady

By SARAH OGDEN
News Editor

As part of Into the Streets and in conjunction with Room in the Inn, Jim Gabriels spoke about homelessness to a small crowd Thursday in the Morrison Room. Gabriels, who has been working with many of Charlotte’s homeless men for the past five years, centered his talk around the causes of homelessness and what to expect when Davidson begins its Room in the Inn program in January. He also answered questions from the audience.

Gabriels began by defining homelessness as a state “where people find themselves consistently without shelter.” He went on to say that “nobody understands homelessness very well.” The causes, he said, include “urban redevelopment,” during which “crummy” neighborhoods are torn down and upscale offices and housing are constructed, thereby destroying the “neighborhood network,” the community and the safety nets it provides. Another cause, according to Gabriels, is the federal government. In the not-too-distant past, the Housing and Urban Development budget was slashed by eight percent, which created a shortage of inexpensive housing. These factors combined to create an absence of affordable housing for those with low incomes, turning people who can’t pay higher rents out onto the streets.

Also, “real wages” have been falling since the 1800s, and manufacturing jobs have increasingly gone overseas, combining to produce lower incomes and less employment for blue-collar workers, Gabriels said. Gabriels also pointed out that, “for a lot of people, life stinks.” People lose things, he said, such as spouses, children, self-esteem, sometimes even their sanity, and not everyone picks up the pieces quickly or in conventional ways. This, too, can sometimes lead to homelessness.to homelessness. Another cause of homelessness Gabriels spoke about was substance abuse, primarily centering around alcohol and crack cocaine. “Cheap wine” and “liquid crack” (a potent alcoholic beverage), he said, are the most common choices because of their low cost. Drunk homeless people are often robbed, Gabriels said, because others know that, in order to be drunk, the homeless must have money with which to buy alcohol. This leads to their being “rolled” almost every time they receive money. Crack is also inexpensive to buy, Gabriels pointed out, and it provides a “good,” immediate high. It also “creates a reality that’s a little less painful,” Gabriels said. Crack is, however, “extremely addictive,” which forces addicts to find money wherever possible, including from friends and family. When addicts repeatedly fail to pay back their “loans,” they lose their support networks, leaving them virtually alone and without resources on the streets. Obviously, addicts also run the risk of being arrested, said Gabriels, which makes it difficult to work and make money, and consequently, more difficult to get off the streets.

Finally, Gabriels said, the most problematic cause of homelessness is poor education. Educating adults is difficult to do because they are simultaneously trying to find a job, leave the shelter, and possibly overcome substance abuse, Gabriels said. Attempting to achieve one of these goals at a time is hard enough, but taking on all three plus schooling simply isn’t realistic for most. Gabriels went on to speak about Room in the Inn—specifically, what to expect when Davidson begins taking in five of the program’s homeless on weekends beginning in January. Gabriels said that there is a screening process to eliminate the mentally ill, substance abusers, and “bad actors.” However, he said, “I hope at some point you will decide to (deal with those people).” Despite the screening process and weapons check each candidate will undergo, Gabriels urged volunteers in the program to “get acquainted with the 9-11 system” and to learn to take “universal precautions” against blood-borne pathogens, such as HIV and hepatitis B. He expects the biggest problems to be medical in nature, for example, toothaches, tuberculosis, and seizures, though Gabriels also discussed the relatively slight chance of fighting among the homeless. One audience member asked Gabriels if he had any solutions to homelessness. More low-income housing and legalizing drugs were two ideas he offered. When asked why Gabriels dedicated himself to helping the homeless, he simply said, “I enjoy it.” It’s such an easy thing to do to help people,” Gabriels added. “You always get more back than you give into it.”

Architecture and the environment bring community service to English 101

By SARAH OGDEN
News Editor

Assistant Professors of English Annie Ingram and Suzanne Churchill have put a new twist on English 101: each has added a service component to selected classes. Churchill said that service is “less part of the fundamental course” than a supplementary part of it. Her 101 course, entitled “Writing as Architecture,” deals with the relationship between architecture and writing. Texts include literature and films centered around architecture, especially houses. Churchill plans to draw parallels between writing and architecture through the ways buildings communicate and the architecture of writing. The semester will progress to the issue of homelessness and will culminate in a research paper on homeless issues. Students in the class will also be required to perform about 15 hours of community service. Churchill sees the Writing as Architecture class as a “movement toward having more range” in basic composition classes, but said that the class still emphasizes writing. Churchill taught a version of the class at Princeton University, but Ingram “gets credit for thinking of the service component,” Churchill said. Churchill hopes to attract people who are interested in architecture and service, and who “want to explore issues of homelessness.” She expects the class’s popularity to depend on how well it is publicized. Despite her enthusiasm for her new class, Churchill said she hopes some people will continue to take the traditional 101 class because, for some, the traditional route may be more effective.

Ingram’s class, which began last fall, deals with environmental writing, and unlike Churchill’s class, service is a central part of the course. Ingram said she got the idea for classes with service from a series of workshops conducted on the same topic for faculty in the spring of 1996. Ingram developed her class over the summer by combining a version of a class she taught at Emory University with the new idea of service. Students will be required to perform 25 hours of community service in the environmental field, including working to establish and maintain an organic community garden in Davidson and becoming involved with the Environmental Action Coalition or the Sierra Club’s Inner City Outings program. In the past, the class, which has a ceiling of 15, has proven to be popular, according to Ingram. At least, “that’s what people tell me,” she said. “It has attracted fabulous people,” Ingram added. Many students in the classes have been interested in learning more about environmental issues, but not all—or even most—have been English majors. “Writing is a really important skill,” said Ingram, who hopes to make it enjoyable for everyone.