By Bratron Holmes
Staff Writer

The Davidson wrestling team continued its 1997-98 campaign with a meet against Anderson College Saturday. Before this weekend, the season
thus far had consisted of two tournaments at VMI and Appalachian St. The very young Wildcat team has shown surprisingly
good results in these two tournaments.

“So far we’ve got a great start,” coach Tom Oddo said. “If we can stay healthy, this should be our
strongest lineup yet.”

This Saturday’s match resulted in an unfortunate 18-18 tie to Anderson. The Wildcats clearly dominated the meet and won most
of the matches, but due to the injury of senior co-captain George Escaravage, Davidson was forced to forfeit the 134-pound
weight class. This forfeit cost the Wildcats a devastating six points, which was clearly a factor in Anderson’s ability to
salvage the tie.

After the regulation meet, both teams continued to wrestle exhibition matches. The Wildcats continued to wrestle well, winning 15 out
of a total of 23 matches on the day.

“Overall, we wrestled incredibly well,” Oddo said. “We were in all the matches.”

Individually, the Davidson wrestlers were also successful. Andy Sterling, rookie Anthony Albert, and Ian Kaplan—with two pins—all finished 2-0 on
the day.

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1997

Grapplers looking to continue late success of last season

Courtesy of the wrestling team

Ian Kaplan works to pin an Appalachian St. wrestler in a meet earlier this season. Kaplan registered two pins Saturday
against Anderson, as the Wildcats notched a tie in their first dual meet of the year.

Perhaps more impressive was that Sterling and Albert were both wrestling out of their customary weight classes. Bo Bickerstaff also
had a win in the regulation match. Jeff Libersat, another rookie, also contributed, finishing 1-1 against one of the toughest
wrestlers on the Anderson squad.

“The freshmen are coming in and making an immediate impact on the team,” said senior Bill Cameron, who had a
pin in one of the exhibition matches, his second of the year. “All the guys on the team are really
pushing each other.”

Oddo believes the freshmen and sophomore wrestlers are very promising this season. Albert and Libersat proved their worth in the
meet this Saturday, as did sophomores Bickerstaff and Kaplan. Another second-year grappler, Miles Cox, will be very valuable to the
team this season. A selection to the All-Conference team last year as a mere rookie, he lost his match Saturday
by a score of 3-2.

The squad finished last season on a high note at the conference tournament. In addition to Cox making the all-conference
squad, Ben Wall, now a co-captain, advanced to the finals of the tournament and became the first Davidson wrestler to
finish second in the conference in recent history. The team is hoping that the enthusiasm with which the 1996-97 campaign
ended will carry over to this season.

Rob Vogelbacher and Thomas Greene were the only seniors that the team lost to graduation. The Wildcat roster now consists
of seven seniors as well as a solid young corps.

“We had some guys step up and win some really big matches,” Cameron said. “Once everybody gets to their appropriate
weight classes, we should be a much more formidable team.”

The team’s performance so far this season has been good, despite Saturday’s tie versus Anderson. The team’s draw in the
match does not hide the fact that Davidson was clearly the better of the two squads. When the team is
healthy, its senior leadership and young talent should combine to produce good results.

Swimmers post second-place finishes at Emory Invitational
Harper, Dolch, Hirsekorn captureIndividual Victories

Davidson Sports Information

The men’s and women’s swimming teams took to Atlanta this weekend for the two-day Emory Invitational and came home with
a pair of second-place finishes. UNC Wilmington won both sides of the invitational, scoring 1,119 points on the men’s side
and 1,322.5 points on the women’s side. Davidson’s men managed 931 points while its women tallied 774.

The big individual winner for the Wildcats was Scott Harper. The sophomore won two big events. In the first, the
200 Butterfly (1:56.17), he edged teammate Sam Kuykendall who finished second with a time of 1:58.75. Harper’s second victory, the
200 IM (1:56.95), was by a mere two-hundredths of a second.

Other Davidson winners included Terry Dolch in the 200 Backstroke (1:53.80) and Kurt Hirsekorn in the 200 Breaststroke (2:10.28). The
200 Medley Relay team, consisting of Harper, Dolch, Hirsekorn, and Mike McCabe, also finished first for the Wildcats, posting a
time of 1:38.80.

Although the women did not have any first-place finishers, there were several silver-medal performances to go around. Mary Shell Brosche
finished second in two individual events. In the 400 IM, she swam the race in 4:37.22 and in the 200
IM, she came in with a time of 2:11.10. Davidson’s 400 Free Relay team, Brosche, Allison Beebe, Sarah Wines, and
Elissa Weddle, also finished second with a time of 3:40.23. The 800 Free Relay team, consisting of Brosche, Beebe, Suzi
Bozzone, and Abby Clark, also garnered second-place honors, completing the course in 8:07.81. Bozzone also swam to a second-place finish
in the 200 Backstroke with a time of 2:11.05. And the 200 Free Relay team finished second with a time
of 1:42.79.

The Wildcats will take a month off before meeting Lehigh on Jan. 9 in Florida. The Wildcats will then face
UNC Wilmington and Georgia Southern on Jan. 17.

Women’s Basketball

Expanded Thumbnails

The Weeks Ahead

*Jan. 12 vs. UNC Greensboro at Belk (5:00)
Coach: Lynne Agee (17th year, 337-121)
Last year: 20-9, 13-1 Big South
Current record: 2-2#
Last meeting: Dec. 5 at Belk — DC, 60-48
Players to watch: Melinda Goodson (5-9, So., G); Biz Brediger (6-2, Sr., F/C)
Noting the Spartans: UNCG won 13 games in the Big South last year, but the competition in the Southern Conference
is a notch higher... The Spartans were tabbed third in the league’s media poll, fourth in the coaches’ poll... Goodson
was named to the preseason all-conference team.

*Jan. 17 vs. Furman at Greenville, S.C. (5:15)
Coach: Sherry Carter (16th year, 215-200)
Last year: 19-8, 10-4 SC
Current record: 0-6#
Last meeting: Feb. 3 at Belk — FU, 63-54
Players to watch: Tonya Bristow (5-10, Sr., F); Elizabeth Noethling (6-2, Sr., C); Jackie Smith (6-1, So., F/G)
Noting the Paladins: Thanks to a challenging non-conference schedule, the Paladins opened the season 0-6, including losses to Alabama, South
Carolina, Purdue, and North Carolina... Furman was picked second by the coaches in preseason polling — behind Davidson — and
first in the media rankings.

*Jan. 19 vs. Appalachian St. at Boone (5:15)
Coach: Barbie Breedlove (First year)
Last year: 16-12, 8-6 SC
Current record: 1-4#
Last meeting: Feb. 8 at Belk Arena — DC, 88-84 (OT)
Player to watch: Noel Dolan (5-9, So., G)
Noting the Mountaineers: Appalachian was decimated by graduation after last season and by injuries in the preseason — three Mountaineers
tore ACLs in the first two weeks of school... Breedlove has her work cut out for her; this will likely
be a down year at tradition-rich Appalachian... The Mountaineers were tabbed sixth in both preseason polls.

“Southern Conference game
#Record through Dec. 3

Michael J. Kruse
