4

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, APRIL 14, 1997

Davis examines Japanese “high-intensity movements”

By JENNIFER STARR
Staff Writer

Dr. Winston Davis, professor of religion at Washington and Lee University, recently spoke on “Japanese New Religions: Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow” based in part on his experiences studying and interacting with Mahikari, or True Light, a Japanese New Religion.

Davis says that the religious movements which recently shocked the U.S. such as Heaven’s Gate and the Branch Davidians share some striking similarities with Japanese New Religions.

The possible dangers of some of the Japanese New Religions became apparent when twelve people were killed and over 5,000 were injured in a sarin gas attack orchestrated by the New Religion, Aum Shinrikyo.

This group, which was also implicated in the 1992 murder of a lawyer seeking to separate a member from the movement, was found to have a large stash of chemicals, a “secret lab,” and a $1 million Russian helicopter.

Davis explained that labeling movements such as Aum Shinrikyo is difficult. He stated that there is no widely accepted academic definition of the term “cult” which is popularly used to describe this type of movement. Instead, he prefers to call such movements, religious or secular, “high-intensity movements.”

Davis says that such movements have three goals, “the complete transformation of converts to true believers and their mobilization as agents, the complete severance of social and psychological relationships outside of the group, [and] perpetuation of the isolated community by rewards, punishments, demands, and demonizing the outside world.”

Davis stressed that bizarreness does not necessarily make such a group criminal.

Instead, he said that the signs that such a movement might become criminal include “worship of the leader, violation of traditional sexual morality, paranoia or mental illness in the leader, [and] the presence of weapons.”

According to Davis, Aum Shinrikyo promoted a sole focus on the leader, encouraged members to undergo “radical psychophysical ordeals,” and created paranoia about the outside world.

Davis described the Mahikari movement as one which stresses faith healing and evil spirits with a nationalist bent.

Faith healing, which can be performed on people or machines, is done when a member raises his or her hand and light rays emerge expelling the evil spirits which cause “poverty, suffering, sickness, and discord” in the subject.

This group believes it is led by “the messiah, the sacred phoenix, and God’s robot and proxy” and has beliefs which encompass bits of many major world religions.

The group believes that in the distant past, when the world began its spiritual decline, the emperor of Japan sent out a set of prophets which included Christ and Buddha as well as a set of gifts which included the major languages of the world to encourage the people to renounce their ways.

Aum Shinrikyo believes that a perfect civilization will occur at some time in the future which will be ruled by the Japanese and their emperor.

Davis, who received his Ph.D. in History of Religions from the University of Chicago, has taught at Stanford and Southwestern Universities, as well as in Japan.

His book on Japanese religion is required reading for Religion 180: History and Religion of Japan.

Dr. Mark Csikszentmihalyi, who teaches the course, commented that in the lecture Davis “didn’t deny that [Mahikari] would seem strange to us. Yet he clearly took it seriously and challenged the application of the term ‘cult’.”

NO GIMMICKS
EXTRA INCOME
NOW!
Envelope stuffing--$600-
$800 dollars every week
Free details: SASE to
International Inc.
1375 Coney Island Ave.
Brooklyn, NY 11230

Need a
Housesitter?

Davidson alum and
professor/student in town
for summer will watch
your house.

Call (919) 918-7818

Correction:

Senior Honor Council member Elizabeth Field was mistakenly identified as Elizabeth Reid in the April 7 issue of The Davidsonian. The editors regret the error.

Write for News
Call -2148