Appreciating the Davidson experience - THE DAVIDSONIAN ©

Doing what you love and loving what you do

I don’t think people really appreciate what we have available at Davidson academically. I know a lot of you were
fortunate enough to go to really great high schools, so maybe this is because I rarely had the kind of
stimulating learning environment that we have here. But I never cease to be in awe of how incredible the classes
and the professors are here at Davidson.

For the most part, I think the classes here are pretty fun. Yeah, fun. I’m going to risk getting branded
as a nerd by saying that, most of the time, I even enjoy doing the work for them. So there.
I said it. Maybe I am a nerd, but deep down aren’t we all nerds at Davidson? Aren’t we all
here because we happen to enjoy the challenge of learning and thinking and analyzing and discussing and debating?

I generally don’t find studying at Davidson stressful. On the contrary, I think it’s actually pretty relaxing. I’m not saying
that I don’t understand how tough it is when you’ve got one deadline on top of another, but I think
if we just have the right attitude, we could all be a little less stressed about work and start having
some fun with it.

I know people here who constantly chronicle their progress by saying, “I read X amount of pages in Y amount
of time today.” They delight in sharing this interesting conversation piece with anyone who will stand around long enough to
listen, especially when they’ve managed to skim or speed read through the pages in a small amount of time. In
turn, the listener is expected to respond with praise: “Wow, you were really productive today!” I not only find this
exchange dull and irritating, I also find it very sad. This kind of statement is a complete debasement of a
Davidson education.

Tell me what you read, tell me what you thought about what you read, how you felt, what you learned,
or how you found this cool underlying meaning or symbolism that you’re sure even Cliffs Notes hasn’t discovered yet. Tell
me that you loved it, tell me that you hated it, and tell me why. Then I can honestly say,
“Wow, you were really productive today!”

These people are usually the ones who do the absolute bare minimum required to get the grade that they want.
If they have a two-page paper to write, they manage to squeeze out exactly two pages. Some professors reward this
mercenary determination to do exactly what is assigned and nothing more in an attempt to prepare students for the “real
world,” but as Pink Floyd said, “All in all, you’re just another brick in the wall.” If the real world
rewards us for being mediocre rather than extraordinary just because being extraordinary takes a little more time, then maybe Matthew
Hobbie was right. Maybe the world’s value system is screwed up, and maybe the revolution should start with us. I’m
with you, Matthew. Alison Sisk is with you. Who wants to tear down the wall with us?

A failure in an attempt to be extraordinary is always more meaningful than plowing through life in determined dullness. Let
yourself be inspired by the professors that encourage you to love the work and really get into it, to do
more than you have to because you want to. We are not here to check things off a syllabus, put
little gold stars next to each completed item, and pat ourselves on the back. We are here to expand our
minds — to form ideas, opinions, and beliefs about the world, then to change them and form new ones.

So don’t beguile yourself into believing that “I read 102 pages last night” is a statement of progress. If anything,
it’s a statement of regression. If all you’re after is an immaculate GPA, then you’re at the wrong place. You
can get that at a state school and pay significantly less each year. Yet you still want the prestigious academic
reputation of Davidson, right? Well, a lot of schools have an equivalent reputation without Davidson’s workload or grading standards. Reducing
the value of what you’ve learned in a class to a mere numerical value is an insult to the Davidson
education system.

It’s not so much what you do in life as how you feel, and I think we could all feel
a lot better if we just tried to enjoy our assignments and get the most out of them that we
can, instead of stressing over the grade we’re going to get or worrying about whether we’re spending too much time
on that particular assignment. We could also have a much fuller college experience if we didn’t rule out classes that
could be potentially fun, exciting, or challenging simply because they might endanger our GPA.

I realize that grades are an important factor in getting into the graduate program of your choice. I’ve found that
for the most part, my philosophy isn’t in conflict with that. If you allow yourself to enjoy your classes and
really get into them, the grades will usually follow. If they don’t, this should in no way diminish its value.
Regardless of the grade you receive in a class, it is never a failure unless you fail to take some
kind of knowledge from it. If your obsession with getting into the graduate program of your choice ispreventing you from
trying new things, branching out, talking to your mom on the phone for more than two minutes, enjoying your classes,
living a full life, and being a positive, happy person—then maybe, just maybe, you should consider reordering your priorities. I
am all for setting goals and going for them, but if you’re killing yourself in the process, what’s the point?
Don’t get me wrong. I am in no way claiming that I never procrastinate, goof off when I should be
working, or sleep through a morning. But the way I see it, if I tried to be perfect, I’d be
so stressed out that I wouldn’t be able to enjoy or appreciate my classes. I think it’s enough for people
to just do the best they can and get the most out of their classes without killing themselves. We are
here for a short time in this world. Like Matthew said, “Why are we in such a hurry? Where are
we racing to—other than our deaths?” Living is about doing what you love and loving what you do. There is
no better place to cultivate your love for the academic aspect of college than Davidson. So let’s take that opportunity
at its full value and not get so bogged down in getting work done that we forget about why we’re
doing it in the first place.

Word from Scotland: Much tradition, different academics

Pubs are popular places, but try to stay away from the local fare

ST. ANDREWS, Scotland—I’ve been thinking about how to write this for quite some time. There’s a lot to take into
consideration. Michael Kruse most likely wants something rather professionally done: datelines, commas, colons, description. Maybe a little chiasmus, too. The
youth of the college are looking for guidance as their time abroad will soon be, like judgment, at hand. There
are also the academic and social aspects that deserve attention. And then there’s me, Randall J. Mardus, the guy who
has to pick and choose between romantic escapist lore and realistic information that, like in the Gospels, people fear to
hear.

I'll start with the romanticism of it all. The University of St. Andrews prides itself on its tradition. Founded in
1411, many a year before Christopher Columbus sailed the ocean blue, the University reeks of personality. The campus abounds with
relics of yesteryear, from an old castle and cathedral to a Templar’s meeting house. Eerie thought, but pretty cool. Not
to mention the European cobblestone roads and sidewalks. And how could I forget to mention the sands of “Chariots of
Fire” fame? The Old Course? The Royal and the Ancient? Scottish cuisine? I'll save that for the realism section.

With only three classes a semester, there is a good bit of free time to take advantage of what the
town, country, and school organizations have to offer, be it learning how to ceilidh (the Scottish version of line dancing,
but with better music) or partaking in one of the many mountaineering clubs that explore the Scottish Highlands. The old
saying usually applied to the Irish—“God created whisky so that the Irish wouldn’t rule the world”—could easily be applied to
the Scottish as a fair amount of the country seems to have a good time at one of the abundant
local pubs, which seem to be quite popular. (At least that’s what they tell me.)

St. Andrews is also only about an hour and a half from Edinburgh, which is an absolutely beautiful city with
a lot going on any day of the week. The weather has also been a pleasant surprise. Knock on wood.
The east coast of Britain does not get as much rain as the west or Ireland, and occasionally a blue
sky will appear, taking me back to Carolina in mind.

As all college students know, reality stinks, so I’ll make it brief. First, European life isn’t cheap. As Londoner-for-a-semester Ian
Hummel has postulated accurately, it “seems that the only difference is that they’ve taken the prices of products in the
United States and switched the dollar sign for those of pounds (which give a $1.50 in exchange).” Second, unless you’ve
got the social skills of Buster Burk (a.k.a Mr. Handshake), you end up primarily meeting Americans.

In addition, the academics are a little funny. Class discussion, unless you’re in the higher level classes, is non-existent until
you’re in your tutorial with a grad student. They also place a lot of the grading emphasis on one final
exam, but because we’re talking pass-fail here, I’m going to stop sounding like a Davidson student. And then there’s Scottish
cuisine—if you want to call it that. They know their fish and chips like nobody’s business, but as for the
rest of it, watch out! Not to mention that those in the cafeteria don’t exactly have the voices, song, and
rhythm of those in the Commons.

And lastly, having chosen to study in the Western world, I’ve kept myself in the safety zone that is English,
comfort, and security unlike the more adverse and diverse lands of the East and Africa. As for me, I’m kickin’
it nice and easy in Europe.
