DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1997

On the road with the Wildcats

Men’s hoops prepares for league action with challenging pre-conference gauntlet

Durham, N.C., Dec. 11 - Duke, coming off a 62-61 collapse against Michigan on Dec. 8, was either going to
be short on confidence or extremely angry going into its tilt with Davidson. Well, the 14th-ranked Blue Devils were not
only angry, but good, as they used a barrage of three-pointers to turn a shaky 33-26 halftime lead into a
convincing 85-58 final in front of 9,134 at fabled Cameron Indoor Stadium.

“What I felt the Michigan game could’ve presented for us was the little bit of doubt that might exist in
Duke’s mind if it became close down the stretch,” said coach Bob McKillop. “I think we positioned ourselves pretty well
in the first half, but we were the ones who completely lost our poise in the second half.”

The first half represented a virtual dead heat. Both squads shot 12-for-27 from the floor. Davidson actually posted a 15-13
rebounding edge and at times even looked to be a step faster and a notch hungrier than the Devils. But
Duke eventually established itself, shooting 52.5% in the second frame and holding the sagging Wildcats to 34.3%. An 8-0 Duke
run midway through the lopsided period - 6 points by athletic swingman Ricky Price and a Greg Newton jam -
inflated the lead to 21, squashing any remaining upset fancies for Davidson.

Newton and Price, two players for whom the Wildcats had no match, dominated, scoring 22 and 19 points, respectively. Narcisse
Ewodo and Landry Kosmalski paced Davidson, each tallying 11 points. Big man Chadd Holmes added 10.

“I thought Chadd and Landry were outstanding. I think it’s going to be a big boost to their confidence,” said
McKillop. “It’s a question of poise under pressure and a new experience for a lot of these guys. They (Duke)
forced us to rush and make some ill-advised decisions. Their whole team is very, very talented.”

But Mike Krzyzewski, who has led Duke to seven of the past 11 Final Fours and back-to-back national championships in
‘91 and ‘92, was equally impressed with McKillop’s plucky squad.

“I like Davidson a lot,” said the legendary coach. “They have a lot of heart and they keep putting pressure
on you. Bobby’s just an outstanding coach. They have a winning attitude and I’m surprised we won by the margin
we did.

“They’re a team where the sum is greater than the total of its parts. They’re always going to play really
well as a unit. You can tell they’ve won a few years there and they’re going to win again this
year in their conference.”

“As disappointed as I am in a loss, this is not the Southern Conference - this is a Top 20
team,” added McKillop. “It’s obviously going to expose us and make us a better team. Now can we grow from
it? That’s got to be the key.”

Wildcats fall to suddenly hot-shooting Minutemen

Amherst, Mass., Jan. 2 - People in Massachusetts take their sports very seriously. The professional sports teams, like the area
they represent, are steeped in tradition. And the sports journalism, perhaps unmatched in both its quantity and quality, is at
times scathing. Just listen to what respected Boston Globe columnist Dan Shaugnessy recently had to say about former Minuteman star
Marcus Camby, who allegedly accepted gifts of money, jewelry, and prostitutes from a potential agent last year at UMass.

“It should be clear by now that Marcus Camby is a pig who didn’t belong in college,” he wrote on
Dec. 20. “Now we know he’s stupid. And worse. He’s scum.”

The Minutemen have not only lost their mystique and reputation as a top-notch program, but after a dream season in
an otherwise dismal year for New England sports, they have shamed themselves, the school, and the state.

All of this set the scene for Davidson’s matchup with vilified UMass in which the Minutemen never could quite put
away the Wildcats, but ended up with a 77-64 victory. UMass, which entered the contest shooting an icy 37.7% on
the season, broke out of the team-wide slump, nailing 31-of-57 field goals (54.4%). Carmelo Travieso, who has been forced to
bear much of the offensive burden recently with backcourt mate Edgar Padilla nursing a shin contusion, tallied a season-high 28
points. All four of his three-pointers came in the last 13 minutes of the game and essentially killed any hopes
for a Davidson win.Got great looks, but I think his teammates did a tremendous job of getting him free,” coach
Bob McKillop said of the senior who played for the Puerto Rican Olympic squad in Atlanta. “He got into his
rhythm tonight, and if he gets in his rhythm, he’s dangerous.

“I’ve been struggling for a while, so it felt real good to get some shots to go through the baskets,”
said Travieso, who is shooting just 28% from behind the arc this year, his supposed specialty.

But in terms of points, the last 4:26 of the first half marked the difference in the game, as the
Minutemen closed the period with a 13-2 run, turning a 26-26 count into a 39-28 margin at intermission. Other than
that stretch, the two teams played to a dead heat. And were it not for Davidson’s subpar free throw shooting
(16-for-26) and Travieso’s late-game bombs, the Wildcats would have been right there with the Minutemen at the end, if not
ahead of them.

Landry Kosmalski led the Wildcats with 15 points and 8 rebounds. Mark Donnelly and Narcisse Ewodo added 14 and 12,
and UMass’ lead was only 65-58 with 2:47 to go. But first-year UMass head coach Bruiser Flint was reluctant to
give Davidson’s squad much credit and quick to blame his own.

“Davidson’s a well-coached team, they shoot the ball well, but I think most of the problems we had tonight were
ours,” said Flint. “You watch the basketball out there, I thought we were horrible. I told my guys that wasn’t
good enough tonight.”

It was good enough to top the Wildcats though. “They weren’t in sync offensively (up to this point),” said McKillop,
“but they certainly were tonight.”

Cat-killer Carmelo Travieso pulls up for three in last year’s NCAA tourney. After much of this season, he found his
stroke against Davidson, pouring in 28 points.

Davidson, Dec. 14 - It was as if the basketball gods couldn’t pick a winner until the last possible second.
The backyard brawl between the Charlotte area’s two top basketball teams featured ten lead changes and six ties and yanked
the season-high Belk Arena crowd of 3,894 on a topsy-turvy emotional roller coaster ride. But in the end, the Wildcats
came up a deuce shy and Mecklenburg rival UNCC - notorious for blowing late-game leads early this season - escaped
with a 70-68 victory.

“We play a good 20 minutes some games,” explained 49er point guard Sean Colson, who notched 18 points and five
assists. “But we still haven’t put a 40-minute game together yet.”

With the win, UNCC captured the Hornets’ Nest Trophy for the first time in three years and, perhaps more importantly,
local bragging rights.

“It was a game which we had opportunities to win, and we didn’t,” said coach Bob McKillop. “But this team
played its heart out tonight. I am very proud of their effort and very proud of their performance.”

After a 35-35 first half, Davidson built a five-point lead on two occasions in the first eight minutes of the
second. But a layup at the 10:54 mark by DeMarco Johnson (a game-high 21 points) gave the 49ers a 51-50
advantage. UNCC clung to its shaky lead until Ali Ton nailed a three-pointer with 6:50 left, making it 58-57, Wildcats.

The fever pitch continued, as Mark Donnelly - who buried a then career-high five threes and led the Wildcats with
18 points - took a Narcisse Ewodo pass at the foul line with 1:38 remaining and calmly sunk a fall-away
jumper, giving the Wildcats a 64-63 lead. But it would ultimately be Davidson’s last. Johnson dunked 11 seconds after the
Donnelly fade-away and Andre Davis and Shanderic Downs each added a pair of free throws, putting the 49ers up, 69-65,
with 16 ticks left.

Ton made UNCC sweat one more bullet though, knocking down another long-distance bomb with eight seconds to go, cutting the
margin to one. “He made a couple of clutch shots there at the end,” said Colson of Ton, who finished
with eight points and six assists. “He wasn’t known for his three-point shooting in our scouting, but at the end
he made those two big threes.”

After Colson made one-of-two from the line, Ton took the inbounds pass and was called for a walk attempting a
potentially game-tying drive. Ewodo added 14 points, Chadd Holmes 12, and Landry Kosmalski 11.

“I thought our guys did a masterful job of executing down the stretch, but I’d just like to have that
last play over again,” said McKillop. “Ali just took it one dribble too far. If he pulls up and he
gets that jumper, you never know how the game would end.”

TEXT BY MICHAEL KRUSE
