THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1997

Staley Lecturer: stopping the religious right

Lecturer’s stay on campus will include a debate with his wife about homosexuality.

By ANN CULP
News Editor

Must a person of faith be politically conservative? Politically liberal?

The Staley Lecture Series is hosting social and political activist and preacher Tony Campolo this Tuesday and Wednesday to explore this very issue.

Campolo is a professor of Sociology and Director of the Urban Studies Program at Eastern College as well as an author of more than 25 books, including Carpe Diem and Is Jesus a Republican or Democrat?

In addition, Campolo founded the Call to Renewal Movement with Jim Wallace of Sojourners magazine and other Christians.

“He felt like the religious right had co-opted what it means to be religious and political,” said Chaplain Rob Spach.

“He created an agenda based on compassion, care for people at the fringes of society, and working for justice. Being of faith and being involved in politics does not necessarily equal the religious right.”

Campolo will be speaking on “The Kingdom of God is a Party” and “Who Switched the Price Tags?: Having Priorities that Matter.”

Campolo's time on campus will also feature a debate with his wife, Peggy Campolo, on the “Two Sides of a Christian View of Homosexuality.”

Mrs. Campolo does not believe that homosexuality, in and of itself, is sinful. She serves on the Board of Welcoming and Affirming Baptists, which seeks justice for lesbians and gays in the church.

Tony Campolo disagrees with his wife on the issue of homosexuality.

“So here you have this couple, married to each other, yet disagreeing on an issue that is very divisive within the church and on this campus," Spach says. "We thought it would be good for the campus to hear. It is possible to debate on an issue that you feel strongly about, but in a caring context."

The Staley Lecture Series was endowed by Thomas Staley to bring Christian scholars to speak on campus.

In the past, it has hosted Frederick Buechner and James Forbes.

Frosh founds Dahn Hak club

ANN CULP
News Editor

Last Sunday, Master Jin from the U.S. Dahn Hak headquarters in New Jersey visited Davidson to encourage the founding of a new club on campus.

Dahn Hak is a traditional Korean science which utilizes the energy of the body, or Ki. The purpose of the exercise is personal health and world peace.

Freshman Ji Hoon Hwang has brought this traditional form of meditation to Davidson.

“My junior year of high school, I was very stressed,” Hwang says. “I attended an Outward Bound trip over the summer which was helpful, but I still needed more. When I went to Korea that summer, I went to a presentation at the Dahn Center and became totally fascinated by Ki.”

Hwang began a club at his high school and has now continued at Davidson. The Dahn Hak Club meets every day for an hour as a team credit sport.

“Dahn Hak is non-competitive and very peaceful. It is the kind of sport that can connect with mind and body,” said Hwang.

There are 300 Dahn centers in Korea and 26 in the U.S. currently.

PASTA COMPANY

CARRY OUT
DELIVERY
DINE-IN

896-8333

Alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages available. Featuring the best import and domestic beers and a full line of wines including Chardonnay, Cabernet, and Merlot.

We deliver full meals including all alcoholic beverages.

FREE delivery. Limited delivery area. $10 Minimum Delivery. Major Credit Cards Accepted.

HOURS: 11:30-9 Mon. - Thur.
11:30-10 Fri. - Sat.
Closed Sunday

I-77, Exit 28, Norman Crossing Shopping Center

10% off any pasta combo with student I.D. thru 3/31/97

Impress those internship people.
Write for news.
Call 2148

WEB PAGE TRAINEE NEEDED!
Call Clay @6801

INFORMATION MEETING:

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 5
8:30 p.m.
CHAMBERS 312

DAVIDSON DIG IN CYPRUS

FIND OUT HOW YOU CAN JOIN DAVIDSON'S EXCAVATION PROJECT ON APHRODITE'S ISLE AND RECEIVE COURSE CREDIT*

*Full Scholarships - including airfare, may be available on a competitive basis.

If you are interested but can't make this meeting please contact:
Professor Toumazou (Cha. 323-A; ext. 2281) or Diane Stirling (ext. 2462)