2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS BRIEFS

The 4th Annual Sexuality Forum, scheduled for tomorrow night, has been cancelled, says Valerie Hansard, president of FLAG. As of a month ago, eight or nine panelists had been scheduled to speak, including five Davidson students. At press time, only one Davidson student was still willing to serve on the panel; the others had cited feelings of discomfort about appearing.

Rides Program getting going

The Rides program run by the SGA started this past weekend. The total projected cost of the service will be $850. The SGA Rides program account was $774. A possible profit may be earned from the service.

Phi Delta Theta going dry

The national Phi Delta Theta office decided to “ban alcohol in chapter houses,” according to the Charlotte Observer, Thursday, March 20. The ban will take effect by the year 2000. “It's really a liability issue. So many fraternities are being sued by people who get one drink which makes the fraternity liable. There have been a lot of suits and they have lost them. It's basically risk management,” says junior Josh Will, Phi Delta Theta member.

NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 24, 1997

Don't miss Anchors of Loaf April 5 at 10 p.m. in the 900 Room.

WORK IN DAVIDSON THIS SUMMER

SUMMER EMPLOYMENT IN PHYSICAL PLANT

THE PHYSICAL PLANT IS NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR SUMMER WORKERS: POSITIONS AVAILABLE IN GROUNDS, PAINTING, ZONE MAINTENANCE, BUILDING SERVICES, MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL SHOPS. INTERESTED STUDENTS SHOULD CONTACT IRVIN BRAWLEY IN JACKSON COURT #10, EXT. 2119

APPLICATION DEADLINE -- APRIL 15, 1997

Bex <aKUD ON SOUTH BROAD

International cuisine with a southern twist

An 1859 House, Fresh Ingredients, Homemade Bread & Desserts, Vegetarian Selections, Fine Wines & Beers

PATIO NOW OPEN!

Lunch: Tues - Fri 11:30-2:00, from $3.95
Dinner: Tues - Sat 5:30 - ‘til, from $7.95
Open Sundays for Easter, Mother's Day and Davidson Graduation

259 South Broad Street, Mooresville, 663-1859
Off Premise Catering & Private Rooms for Special Occasions

Presidential Search Update: New energy, nothing definite

By MATTHEW EIRICH Associate Editor

Will Davidson have a permanent president next semester? When asked that question, Secretary of the Board of Trustees and Chairman of the Presidential Search Committee Larry Dagenhart responds, “I don’t know.” He says the committee is “working hard,” but adds, “We are not bound by any deadline because we want to be comfortable with our decision.”

The Trustees have enlisted the help of a second educational search consultant. According to Dagenhart, he worked in Charlotte for several years and is “close to a few trustees” and “known to some others” from his local business connections. He now works for a firm in Washington, D.C. Dagenhart would not release his name. The new consultant, according to Dagenhart, “could do what no other educational search consultant could do for us.” This individual brings “high energy” to the process which, Dagenhart hopes, may allow the presidential search to wrap up this spring. The new consultant is being paid a “modest amount,” says Dagenhart. He says the payment is “not of any significance.” He adds that his committee is “well within budget.” He says the search consultant is helping because he likes Davidson.

The first search firm is “on call,” Dagenhart says. The old firm is “no longer paid, but would work together [with the new firm] to the extent they need to.” Dagenhart stresses that his committee has the final vote and control of the search. “The firms are consultants to us,” he says. According to Dagenhart, his committee has interviewed “quite a few” candidates to date, but he would not give a specific number.

Hugo Fest to enliven Lunar Luau

By BILL GIPUZ Director of News and Photography

Things will definitely be up in the air with the College Union’s newest venture next fall. Balls, clubs, rings, and maybe fruit and a few bathroom plungers, that is, as theUnion sponsors the Hurricane Hugo Juggling Festival on September 12-14. Longtime College juggling instructor Bill Giduz, Director of News and Photography, proposed recently that the Union host the event because of the large number of students who can juggle at least three balls. “The Freshman Juggling Survey that I have conducted for the past five years demonstrates a substantial, and increasing, interest in juggling among the student body. In the Class of 2000, 42% of 189 male students and 21% of the 225 female students polled can juggle three balls—almost double last year’s figure,” Giduz says. Giduz estimates that the festival will attract at least 100 professional and hobbyist jugglers from all over the East Coast to Davidson, and says the unique nature of this particular festival could attract far more. He says there are at least 40 or 50 weekend regional juggling festivals across the nation every year, but that the festival here will feature events unlike any other.

The September 12-14 weekend was selected by Union personnel so that the festival will coincide with Lunar Luau. The Friday night interaction between Luau partiers and jugglers in Johnston Gym should make it a spectacular event, Giduz says, especially with a planned midnight “fire juggling extravaganza” to conclude the Luau. On Saturday morning the festival will move to the Village Green for a public outreach session. Participants will offer free juggling lessons to the public, and give short performances on the stage of the public library. Festival participants will present the halftime show during Davidson’s football game on Saturday afternoon. They will compete in “joggling” races down the gridiron, face off in a game called “Combat” where three-club jugglers attempt to destroy each other’s patterns, and stage the finale, “Big Toss Up,” where everyone throws props into the air all at once. Saturday night will feature a Vaudeville Juggling Show in Hodson Hall, presented either by festival participants or a nationally renowned comedy juggler.

“There’s no other festival anywhere that will involve guests in so many campus activities, and I know that aspect of the Hugo fest will make it very appealing to jugglers from far and wide,” Giduz says. Participants will also give workshops in all forms of object manipulation for students and the public in Johnston Gym throughout the day on Saturday and Sunday. “The variety of skills — including devil sticks, diabolo, unicycle, rola-bola, trick roping, comedy and street theatre — that the participants will bring to campus will give Davidson students an excellent opportunity to learn in formal and informal ways,” Giduz says. Giduz invites students interested in helping with the event to call him at 892-2244.

Correction: Bill McKibben was the 1997 McGaw lecturer, not the McGall Lecturer, as he was identified in last week’s issue. The editors regret any confusion caused by the error.

Alcohol & Drug Survey
If you received a letter to participate in the survey, please know that you were randomly selected and that it is completely anonymous. Come to Vail Commons 3/25 or 3/27 from 5-7pm. Questions? Call Georgia Ringle x2902.

2/08/97 Larceny
Backpack stolen from student’s room. Total stolen value is $150.00.

2/15/97 Larceny
Calculator stolen from classroom. Value at $120.00.

2/19/97 Larceny
Backpack stolen from Commons. Total valued at $200.00.

3/14/97 Larceny
Unknown person took victim’s credit card from pocketbook in Chambers. Nothing else was stolen.

3/14/97 Larceny
Backpacks, notebooks, and calculators stolen from the Commons. Suspects from off-campus have been apprehended.

3/17/97 Larceny
Removed front tire from bicycle - Giant Sedona ATX. Cost is valued at $52.00.