12

Peacemaker: a solid DreamWorks debut

The Peacemaker, a cool thriller starring George Clooney and Nicole Kidman, is the first film from the hyped DreamWorks SKG, the company starring some guys named Steven Spielberg and David Geffen. The movie isn’t anywhere near perfect, but it does keep rolling along at a steady clip, with Clooney and Kidman looking about as good as you can look while being fired upon by crazed, nuclear-device-toting Bosnians.

Clooney plays a cocky Army Special Forces colonel who’s somewhat of an expert on the ins and outs of worldwide illegal arms trading. Kidman, a scientist who heads the White House Nuclear Smuggling Group, doesn’t know as much about this sort of thing as George does. But she can speak Russian, read satellite photographs, spit out technobabble, and run like a greyhound while wearing high heels. Clooney and Kidman team up to stop a Russian general who has swiped 10 nuclear warheads, one of which has been promised as payment to a Bosnian terrorist.

The story takes place all over the world, with sequences in Russia, Germany, Macedonia, France, Slovakia, and the Czech Republic. One of the best scenes takes place in Vienna, where Clooney uses a Mercedes as a demolition derby car, repeatedly slamming into three cars that have been chasing him and Kidman through the city’s narrow streets. The final sequence takes place on the east side of Manhattan, right around the United Nations building. Clooney and a team of snipers are trying to nail the head terrorist before he sets off a bomb and obliterates the surrounding area. The director shows a steady hand in building tension here, with clear sniper shots suddenly being blocked by cute little girls and trees.

The movie tends to have low points in between action sequences which hurts the overall thrust and power of the film. Yet, these low points make the movie a little more realistic than if there was just scene upon scene of things blowing up and people being shot. The director does a good job of developing Kidman’s character, but Clooney stays the same throughout the film. Grade: B.

@ Junior Jason McMullan chats with freshman David Pratt at the Cigar Party Wednesday at Sigma Phi Epsilon. The annual event gives students an opportunity to smoke stogies with their favorite professors. Sean Lutmer

THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1997

By Eric Borcstrom, Amy Marks, and Lindsey Meyers
Student Health Advisors

Last week, we finished speaking to PE 101 classes, also speaking to a few halls. You may have noticed our hot pink flyers advertising our hall programs. If you would like us to come speak on your hall, let your hall counselor or RA know. As a party favor, we will distribute tasty treats.

This week we will respond to the first question we have received: What is a healthy relationship at Davidson—physically and psychologically?

There is no perfect recipe for a healthy relationship, but we have a few suggestions that might help. At the base of a healthy relationship is communication. Early on, it is important to talk about each other's expectations. At times during the relationship, you should discuss emotional aspects about yourself such as what you like and don’t like. This would help your significant other decide what is appropriate in different situations. For example, does your partner want to be touched? How much time do they want to spend with you? It can be rather annoying if you are being smothered by your girl/boyfriend. Take time to discuss your sensitivity levels and hopefully things will go more smoothly. If you don’t know the status of the relationship, call for a DTR—Define The Relationship. This will help both of you to beHappier. Like many students at Davidson, you have a busy schedule, and a relationship might seem to be an additional time commitment. It is helpful to find a balance regarding the time you spend with each other. This can be one of the most difficult things to do when juggling a busy schedule. Even if you have been dating for a long time, it is important to plan dates and set times to get together. Don’t just assume that he or she is going to leave time open for you. It is also important to have a healthy sexual relationship. This does not mean that you have to be sexually active, but both people should know each other's limits, desires, and wishes. At Davidson, there is a wide spectrum of sexual activity, from abstinence to frequent hook-ups, and it is impossible to know what any one person wants without talking about it. In any case, mutual satisfaction is the goal. We hope this provides some useful information, and perhaps will raise some questions for future columns. Please send questions to The Student Body, c/o Mitch Shores, PO Box 4180.

On the Scene at DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Coffeehouse. It’s time to make — or at least eat — the donuts. 8:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m. — or until the tasty treats become stale, whichever comes first. In the 900 Room.

Jumpin’ Java. Free caffeine. 9:00 a.m. at the Outpost.

21-Year-Old Night. Drink ‘til you drop. Because you can. 10:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Women’s Soccer. The Wildcats host the powerful UNC Greensboro Spartans. 7:00 p.m. at Richardson Field.

Depressed? Get screened by DeWitt Crosby. And it’s free! 7:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Coffeehouse. See Tuesday. Eat donuts. 8:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Women’s Soccer. The Wildcats say hello to the dog-like Terriers of Wofford University. 7:00 p.m. at Richardson Field.

Davidson Outdoors. Similar to last week’s Intercollegiate Canoe Race, paddlers paddle like they’ve never paddled before. But this time, they’re in kayaks and on the sea. Hence, sea kayaking. All day long, dammit.

Women’s Soccer. If you happen to be in the New Haven, Conn., area, stop in and watch the Wildcats battle Yale. Noon in the armpit of southern New England.

Volleyball. They’re still in Georgia. This time at Georgia State. Watch the ‘Cats outsmart their opponents.

TUESDAY

Men’s Soccer. The Wildcats, who try hard, welcome the satanic Blue Devils from Duke to lovely Richardson Field, “America’s Palace of College Soccer.” 6:15 p.m.

Airplane. It’s funny. Watch it. 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Disco Night. Get down with your bad 70s self. And eat nachos in a sea of psychedelic lights. 10:00 p.m.-11:30 p.m. in the ubiquitous 900 Room.

Fall Break. Go home. You’re no longer welcome here.

Football! The Fighting Wildcats take on rival Washington & Lee in Lexington, Va. Incidentally, Lexington, Va., is also home to VMI, truly a bastion of merriment. 2:00 p.m. in the Land of the Generals.

Volleyball. These athletes sure are sacrificing their break! The Wildcats meet the Eagles of Georgia Southern. 5:00 p.m. in Can-I-go-home-now? Statesboro.

Davidson Outdoors. Van Whitehead, head of DO, is everywhere. Absolutely everywhere. On his bike. In his kayak. Everywhere. He's wearing a backpack, too.

Bonus: On Tuesday, men’s soccer treats Bucknell like Bucknell should be treated. 10:30 a.m. — ooh, a rare morning start — at plush Richardson Field.

Bonus II: Also on Tuesday: If you're still stalking the women’s soccer players in the Great White North, swing on over to Providence, R.I. — a close second in the armpit running — and take in a little Davidson vs. Brown action.

October 17

Outdoor Movie Tonight! Raiders of the Lost Ark 8:00 p.m. -- In front of Belk FREE POPCORN & COTTON CANDY!! Sponsored by Residence Life