THE DAVIDSONIAN | A movie based on a video game has a less coherent plot

Annihilation from page 13

love,” you expect them to end up in Zimbabwe, smoking a cigarette and smiling, especially since Kitana doesn’t tell Liu
how to steer until half a second before they enter “the interchange,” which is kinda like the inside of a
giant golf ball, if you hollowed one out, and drilled holes where all the dimples are. (Not that you should
ever do that, because wiffle-style golf balls just don’t work unless you’re playing in a low-gravity vacuum like say, on
the surface of the moon, but who wants to play there anyway, because you can’t get any of the good
caddies, it costs so much just to get there that all the players are snobs, no one can see your
plaid pants under the spacesuit that NASA insists you wear, and the whole surface of the moon is a rocky
sand trap anyway. Plus, golf ball owners like your dad can get mighty irate if you drill one of their
balls.)

Anyway, they make it to the other end of the line, but before they can leave the station, they’re attacked
by a robot ninja named Smoke, who blows up the bridge that leads to the exit. Well, then it’s just
time to throw down, and Liu and Smoke go at it, while Kitana fights the peon human ninjas who also
show up. This formula disappointingly goes on throughout most of the movie, with the guys fighting the main enemies from
the game, more or less unsuccessfully, while the girls kick anonymous peon butt. Liu more or less gets spanked until
Sub Zero, a human ninja whom Liu killed in the first movie, suddenly appears and freezes Smoke just as he
is about to blow some more stuff up. That’s okay though, because Smoke blows up instead, and the explosion is
pretty cool.

So now Sub Zero explains that he’s really the brother of the other Sub Zero, and hates Liu Kang but
wants to protect Kitana because she’s “the key to this whole thing.” So he makes a bridge out of ice
for the two lovebirds to walk across, but just then, Scorpion, who looks just like Sub Zero, but is dressed
in yellow instead of blue, shows up. Instead of trying to talk things out like any mature, rational live ninja
with superpowers should, he just starts fighting Sub Zero on the ice bridge, which of course, breaks it. That kind
of behavior made me want to stand up and scold Scorpion for breaking something that Sub Zero worked so hard
on. Scorpion then forces Sub Zero to dangle from the edge of the bridge over the bottomless - or at
least very deep - chasm below. I think Scorpion was trying to make Sub Zero say “uncle,” except Scorpion can’t
say anything except “Get over here!”, which is really a coverup for his fear of intimacy. At this point Liu
jumps across the chasm and rescues Sub Zero. Okay, so I guess he didn’t need that bridge after all. Scalawag
that he is, Scorpion beats on Liu, then teleports himself over to Kitana and then disappears with her.

Since Liu has saved his life, Sub Zero says that he will help him, but Liu is kicking himself for
not making his move in the ball-thingy, and wants to go rescue Kitana. Sub Zero points out that obviously Liu
can’t do it alone, because he couldn’t even defeat Scorpion by himself. Considering that, and the fact that Liu was
sent to find help, it came as somewhat of a surprise that Sub Zero decides to help Liu by disappearing.
Liu then just wanders off into the desert, hoping to find Nightwolf.

Liu finds himself at what appears to be a deserted campground that night. As he is looking around in the
clear night air, a wolf comes out of the inky dark night and starts to maul him just like a
wolf. This isn’t just any nighttime wolf, though. Surprising everyone in the audience, it turns out to be Nightwolf, who
has turned himself into a wolf that night. After changing back into a one-dimensional character like Liu, he explains that
for Liu to learn how to uncover his “animality” he must pass three tests. To “help” Liu achieve this, Nightwolf
hits him over the head with a magical hammer that makes him pass out and hallucinate.

Liu flashes back to the first movie where he saw his brother killed at the hands of Shang Tsung, whom
he ultimately killed in the inevitable Mortal Kombat at the climax of the movie. But his mind wanders to his
new enemy, Shao Khan, who has got to be really evil because he wears a skull mask kinda like Skeletor.
Liu starts to turn into a dragon to fight Shao Khan, but wusses out and wakes up. Safe to say
he didn’t pass that test, unless it was the test of being a pansy.

A pretty girl dressed in rags appears and tries to make out with Liu, probably because it’s suddenly snowing in
the desert and she’s really cold. He starts to go at it, but then he has trouble hoisting the ol’
mainsail, and tries to cover for it by using the old “I’m in love with someone else” excuse. I guess
that counts as passing the second test, which must have been the impotency test. The girl, who turns out to
be another MK character named Jade, gets pissed and starts beating the crap out of Liu, just like all the
other bad guys in the movie so far. Inexplicably, she stops and explains that she’s really there to help him,
and she knows a secret way into the castle where Kitana is being held prisoner. Of course, she later betrays
him and turns out to be evil, but strangely enough, the information about the secret passageway is true. (It turns
out that there is a trap waiting for Liu when he goes to rescue Kitana, but it is a really
pitiful one, as even loser Liu manages to defeat the two guards (out of an available army of thousands) that
Shao Khan has set in waiting for Liu.)

So, to recap, Liu and Kitana were sent out to find help. Liu loses Kitana, but meets Sub Zero who
says he’ll help, then disappears, never to return. Liu meets Nightwolf, who assigns him three tests, only one of which
Liu passes (more or less). Liu meets Jade, who provides him with crucial information, even though she is actually evil
and tries to kill him not once, but twice. This entire sequence just makes me think that theScriptwriters managed to
put down the crack pipe for just long enough to pen eight contradictory fragments of 13 possible scripts, put them
in a hat, and let a blind monkey staple them together for a six-year-old nearsighted epileptic who read them to
the producer while he was asleep after having just eaten a large anchovy pizza laced with LSD. It’s just that
coherent. In an effort to add “quality” to the movie, the writers sneakily steal clichés from successful movies and try
to slide them into the story. Take the character of Sonya’s partner Jax, for example. This very large African-American special
forces operative gains a special pair of bionic implants for his arms that are not only very shiny and neat-looking
but also quadruple his strength. Throughout the movie, however, he fights like a blindfolded mime, throwing punches that say “Hey!
Look out or I’m gonna hit you!” During the final battle, where he fights a mutant centaur named Motaro, his
implants get knocked off, and things look pretty bad. But then he says to himself, “Damn, I’m gonna kick his
butt!”, like an affirmation or something.

Strangely enough, all of the same lame punches and moves that he had been doing before now seem to work,
even though he is only one-fourth as strong. To make the entire sequence obvious to people who do not actually
have a functional brain, Sonya actually says, “Oh, I see you got your confidence back!” I have to say I
liked the whole “that thing you think you need to succeed is really just a crutch and you’re better off
without it” idea more in Dumbo.

Most of the first hour of the movie is spent trying to reunite Kitana with her apparently live mother, Queen
Sindel, because the Elder Gods tell Rayden that she is the reason that evil ninjas are raining from the sky.
The Queen supposedly killed herself when Shao Khan killed her husband and took over their Outworld kingdom (which, despite the
name, doesn’t look out of this world. It’s more of a big barren dump, actually, with no malls or anything).
But now she’s helping Shao Khan and blowing stuff up because she’s dead, but now married to Shao Khan or
something (which makes him into freaky necro stuff, but they gloss over that in the movie. I bet there’re gonna
be some kinky scenes in the director’s cut though). At the end of the first hour, they’ve rescued Kitana from
Shao Khan’s palace and beat the live Queen until she passed out (which makes no sense, but by that point,
WHO CARES!). All they have to do is get Kitana to kiss her mom, thus really bringing her back from
the dead, and I guess annulling the mysterious bond to Shao Khan. (I really don’t understand why they didn’t try
to bring Kitana’s dad back while they were at it, but maybe he was all cut up into pieces and
stuff or something. Actually, that probably would have been cooler than anything else in this movie.)

In a complete shocker, however, it doesn’t work at all, and so they decide that they should just go beat
up the bad guys, which prompted a few reactions from me. First, the “kiss from a loved one that awakens
the magical royalty” theme, even though it didn’t work out between Kitana and her possessed live mother, was better in
Sleeping Beauty. Second, the whole “lead the audience along to a dissatisfying conclusion, then reveal the entire first part of
the movie was a lie fabricated by the bad guy” thing was carried out quite a bit more successfully in
The Usual Suspects. Then again, I get the feeling this was the result of that whole “Hey! How long is
this movie supposed to be? Over an hour? Hmmm. Start on new plot to tack on to the end!” problem.
Really, when a movie based on a video game has a less coherent plot than the game itself, I think
there’s a serious problem with the script. The most disappointing thing in the whole movie was actually the title. This
chapter in the Mortal Kombat chronicle was entitled Mortal Kombat: Annihilation, but in fact, nothing was annihilated in the course
of the movie. Sure, some stuff was broken, and there were some neat explosions, but this is really false advertising
of the worst kind. There aren’t even any net casualties, as Johnny Cage starts out alive but dies in the
first 30 seconds, and Queen Sindel starts out dead but ends up alive in the last 30 seconds of the
movie. It all balances out, and that’s sad, because this movie wasn’t titled Mortal Kombat: Moderation.

By B. Plumbous Schtick and Ed Sagittarius.

You thought you were cool because you knew how many ridges an Oreo has, but you won't be laughing when
you find out later this week how many ridges the tires of a Nabisco delivery truck have.

Capricorn. Don’t you just hate that your birthday is close to Christmas? Solve the problem this year — drop some
strychnine in Santa’s milk and watch him “ho” his last. No Christmas equals more birthday presents!

Aquarius. Your semi-formal dates will love you till the end of their natural lives. Romantic, eh? Too bad you will
die tomorrow.

Pisces. You will have a serious accident with an aardvark, a pocket calculator, and five pounds of Crisco. But your
biggest problem will be explaining said accident to the emergency room staff.

Aries. People think you are evil, so you might as well be evil. As you know, evil always wins, because
good is dumb.

Taurus. The stars have two words for you: pork bellies. Plumbous must admit, sometimes the stars are a mystery even
to him.

Gemini. You will quietly “disappear” when your investigation into the Baskin-Robbins conspiracy at the Commons digs too deep. Plumbous would
tell you more, but he has already said too much.

Cancer. Doesn’t it suck that your sign shares a name with a disease that kills? You will shave your head
as a sign of solidarity with the chemotherapy patients of the world.

Leo. You will discover a burning passion for your roommate. Unfortunately, your roommate has an all-consuming crush on the Octel
voicemail lady.

Virgo. The bad news is that you will poison yourself with wood alcohol. The good news is that the preferred
treatment is IV ethanol drip. Tolerance shall meet its match.

Libra. You are either a sex-crazed maniac or just an ordinary maniac. You will discover that you made an error
in hairstyling and shave your head in frustration. Plumbous suggests commiserating with Cancer natives in this matter.

Scorpio. Both women and men flock to you. Be careful with the androgynous ones — sometimes it’s hard to tell
the difference.
