THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, APRIL 7, 1997 15

Don't give me no sass
By Avery Cook & Jess Robblee
Guest Writers

Pop quiz, hot shot. You want Jhirmack-bounce-back-beautiful hair. You want your hair to look like liquid gold. The hair dilemma—you’ve had the same hair for twenty years and somehow the bowl cut that was so charming in kindergarten just doesn’t work anymore. What do you do? What do you do? Fantastic Sam’s? I think not. Hair World has some followers. They’re kidding themselves. Their delusion is understandable. They have not experienced the magic of Bill.

Bill Duane runs Sassy Scissors, the only night salon in Charlotte (2 to 11 p.m., Mon.-Fri.). Don’t let the quintessential, YM salon title deceive you. This salon deserves your respect. Bill knows best. You relinquish power upon entering. To capture the essence of the Sassy Scissors experience, we quote Yoda: “Do or do not. There is no try.”

Expect your surroundings to frighten you. Crowded into the upstairs floor of a stylish, quirky house, Sassy Scissors is an oasis in the uptown jungle of Charlotte. You sit between a woman trying desperately to grow hair using laser technology you thought only the Jetsons had, and a charmingly chatty, blind masseuse who tells you to call him Dr. Fingers. He spends ten minutes chastising you for the lactic acid crystals that have been building up in your stressed-out shoulders for the last three years. He informs you that there’s some curvature in your spine. Should you be worried about that? And what are lactic acid crystals anyway?

Suddenly, the surreal calm stirs as the great Bill appears in the doorway. You are summoned to the chair. You’re not a customer; you’re providing the clay for the next addition to the long succession of Duane masterpieces. As soon as you eagerly lower yourself into the vinyl throne, Bill’s fingers begin mechanically running through your hair as he mumbles in tongues. In between his chants and incantations, you can make out snippets of coherent speech; something about how you chew on the left side, grind your teeth, sleep on your right side, and ravage your delicate roots with hair products that rape your hair as loggers do the Amazon rainforests.

Admitting you use whatever hair products you find standing in those grimy rings in the shower, Bill cuts off your lame attempts at justifying indiscriminate product choices brutally but honestly. “They’re crap” (read kra-puh), he enunciates at your reflection in the wall-to-wall mirror; accusatory finger emphasizing all three syllables. Bill’s a hard man.

The visit proceeds. Despite your powerlessness, you feel a trust in Bill... and on some level just a healthy measure of intimidation. He immediately begins flipping your hair back and forth from part to part. “Ten pounds lighter, ten pounds heavier, ten pounds lighter, ten pounds heavier” becomes his mantra. What is he talking about? He opens your eyes to the fact that if you just move your part over a wee bit, you might as well skip Jenny Craig. You’re mesmerized by his dream-fulfilling claims. While they seem fantastic, you know that

---

"Sofa, So Good"
The unofficial name of the site-specific installation, “Sofa, So Good” (“No Name” was another speculated epithet) was inspired not only by the fact that so far, Jerry Mischak’s success has indeed been good, but because the work was comprised of an old sofa perched at a lofty height. His favorite medium, Mischak’s use of the layering of tape over objects, according to him, “is a skin which develops while covering.” In residence at the Van Every Gallery last month, Mischak and several Davidson art students (above left) created the piece which, among others, will be on display until April 19, noon to 4 p.m. until April 19.

Also visiting the VAC in March was internationally acclaimed painter and sculptor, Italo Scanga, who presented a slide lecture. His works, including “Shoe, Guilt and Jar” (above right) can also be seen in the Van Every Gallery from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. weekdays and weekends from noon to 4 p.m. until April 19.

---

Perry Nesbitt Ford's Seafood, BBQ, & Catering
Catering YOU can afford
Hwy. 21 South - Cornelius, NC
10% discount on Dinner Plates with your Davidson College ID
Digital Pager (704) 513-3552
Work (704) 892-3362
(704) 782-5770
Bill, Brian, & Marty, Owners

5K Community Race on May 3
To register, contact Susan Roberts @2458

NO GIMMICKS EXTRA INCOME NOW!
Envelope stuffing--$600-$800 dollars every week
Free details: SASE to International Inc.
1375 Coney Island Ave.It all must be true. Bill would never lie to you. Before you know it, you are being whisked into another room by the silent woman in black who wanders about in indifference to your existence. She and Bill discuss what take-out they want to order for dinner (Thai sounds good) as she sticks you underneath a large hood for some deep conditioning. She reiterates Bill’s mandate that you take the temperature of your showers down a notch or two for your hair’s sake. You quickly agree. You feel very out-of-body. You always looked at those salon hoods, but never envisioned yourself being the one flipping through back issues of People as you struggle to maintain your dignity while engaging in some hyper-grooming. Although you feel an odd kinship with those poodles subjected to nail polish, bows, and pompom tails, you’re strangely exhilarated. You watch your hands closely—maybe even sit on them. Bill has leaned in towards you and decreed that under no circumstances are you to touch the hair. He leaves, but you obey at all costs. You do not underestimate his ability to supervise your cooperation via surveillance camera.

Finally, you emerge from the conditioning hood and return to the hair guru. Gripping clips and a spray bottle, Bill begins to unceremoniously chop your beloved tresses like a man possessed. Words are not spoken as the hair hits the floor. There is no customer-cutter conference. He’s in The Zone. You muster the courage to pose a question. His answer unsettles you, and you show some doubt. He leans in. “You want beautiful hair?” he asks, pauses, then continues, “Then do what I tell you.” You swallow. You have another question. What to do with the bangs? You hate them, but you were born with them, it seems, and you’ve become attached. You ask. Suddenly, stillness. Bill steps up beside you. The scissors hover. His dark, soulful, artistic eyes gaze intently into your reflection. “There are two types of people in this world: those who make the coffee and those who drink the coffee. Which ones do you think have bangs?” Your mouth opens, but no sound comes out. You don’t know the answer. Not to worry, Bill would not consider waiting for your reply anyway. He answers his own question with one of many universal truths to which only he is privy. He states matter-of-factly, “Those who make the coffee. Grow them out.” Swept up in the emotion of the moment and the power of his words, you throw up your hands and exclaim, “We’re growing them out!”

Before you even have time to ponder your momentous decision, Bill is done. The scissors are gingerly put down. He takes a deep breath, as masters do when they have finished yet another great work. You look at your surroundings with a mixture of fear and trepidation. Waves of doubt fill your mind as you glance at the large pile of hair on the floor. You wonder if you did the right thing. How much do you really know about this man? Is he truly a genius, or just a psycho with a set of scissors and a fancy chair? All doubts are erased as you glance into your reflection. You look amazing! The heinous mixture of split ends and dry roots to which you are accustomed has volume, body, and all those things they study at the Vidal Sassoon Academy of people with exotic accents. You gaze at Bill with a look of admiration and wonder, but he is not fazed. He’s seen the look before, and he’ll no doubt see it again.

Now you realize it is time to go. The magic moment is over and you ought to leave before it just becomes too hard. You pay Bill and quietly turn to leave, dazed by the wonders you have seen. But, hark! Bill’s voice beckons you back. “How about a hug for your barber?” he asks. As much as you hate to admit it, you’re touched. You feel you’ve undergone some sort of rite of passage. Dr. Fingers chats with an incoming regular as you and Bill embrace. Ahh, closure. You drive away amazed. Was it real, or just a very elaborate mirage? Another glance at your gorgeous locks in the rear-view, whose present loveliness you have no hope of recreating tomorrow morning, answers the question for you. It was no dream, just the Bill Experience.

FAC Pub
Where the cool people are.
Brooklyn, NY 11230