_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

A little sister’s admiration for her football-playing brothers

On Saturday, Davidson celebrated 100 years of Wildcat football history, and I was there watching the game. But I wasn’t watching through the eyes of just another freshman girl—I was there watching from the eyes of a football sister. Because just as kick-off took place at Richardson Field here in Davidson, Appalachian State University and Eastern Kentucky did the same thing just up the road in Boone, and my big brother was on the field.

For as long as I can remember, I have been watching football. It started out with FPYC in Virginia: muddy cleats at the doorway, Saturdays at rainy fields, mom embarrassing everyone in the stands because she yells so loud and always corrects the announcer when they pronounce our last name, and my little sister and I sitting down near the cheerleaders trying our hardest to stay amused. By the time Adam, my brother, reached junior varsity level, I'd started taking short novels to the games, and my sister had discovered the hot boiled peanuts at the refreshment stand. At the varsity level at Summerville High School (Football Town, USA), we met marching bands, bigger crowds, and the hype of a long-founded school rivalry. And in the midst of this, an incredible thing occurred: I learned a little football. I know most of the positions, the rules of the game, and most of the calls, but what I know best is my brother. After five or six years of asking Adam if he scored any touchdowns, my mother finally explained that he played defense and the implications of such a position.

Since Adam signed with Appalachian State four years ago, I’ve learned a lot more: about football, football players, and my brother. First and foremost, these boys love to play. Adam eats, sleeps, and dreams of playing football. He does it because he loves it, and I would venture to say the same holds true at Davidson. Secondly, these guys work hard. In spite of the many football jokes I have told over the years, usually directed at Adam, it’s important to realize how much these athletes, and college-level athletes in general, devote to playing their game. There are two-a-day practices in preseason, conditioning in the off-season, lifting in any season, plus time to watch tapes, have meetings, and, oh yeah, there are academic things. Third, these guys have guts. I have watched 18-year-old boys be carried off the field unconscious, watched my brother undergo four surgeries and four painful and frustrating recuperations, and watched numerous players sacrifice their bodies in the name of the game. Finally, if the first three don’t make it obvious, these boys have passion. If you’ve ever spent time with a player, you know the fire in their eyes before the game, the adrenaline in their bodies during the rush, the thrill of victory, and the agony of defeat. I’ve seen groups of males crying together twice: the first was Adam’s senior class when they were knocked out of the playoffs one game out of the championship, the other was when ASU finished an 11-0 season to win the Southern Conference in 1996.

So when I was at the game Saturday, I looked for a couple of things. First, I looked for my new big brother, Lorenzo Moll, because isn’t it appropriate that my Davidson brother be a football player too? Next, I searched the faces in the stands: the brothers and sisters radiating the excitement of the day and ready for the game to start, and the parents beaming with pride and remembering that day not so long ago when their son finally made the high school junior varsity team. But most of all, I watched the students and faculty of Davidson, ready to scoop up my own little piece of Wildcat spirit.

Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Thursday at 6 p.m. Or e-mail any submissions to Editor in Chief Michael Kruse at mikruse@davidson.edu. Keep all submissions under 400 words. The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions as space requirements mandate.

Is it just me, or were the recent elections pretty uninspiring? As I stood staring blankly at the ballot before me, I wondered how, in good conscience, I could vote for anyone. The election campaigns were devoid of anything approaching an issue or project. Instead, they concentrated on catchy—but often meaningless—political slogans. On this campus, such petty slogans have taken the place of meaningful political discourse.

I would like to cite two examples that appeared on my hall prior to the election. I did not choose these examples to single anyone out for attack, but rather to illustrate a point. One flyer read: “Rugged Craziness. Ready for whatever. Take a walk on the wild side...Crazy Joe.” Not only am I not sure what this flyer means, it gives me no good reason why I should vote for him. Perhaps, if the flyer had read: “Take a walk on the radical side,” I might have had some vaguely political notion of what to expect from “Crazy Joe.”

I also encountered a flyer for Jesse Smallwood on my hall. It read: “Tiko: ??? *Fijian for pineapple *Indian for ‘Are you sane?’ *American for Independent Senator Jesse Tiko Smallwood. Vote independent senator.” Great, if his flyer is factually correct, I now know the Fijian word for pineapple. I must admit the second statement confuses me. I wasn’t aware there was an “Indian” language. Are we talking Hindi? Tamil? Apache? Cherokee? Perhaps the third point is...a subtle appeal to those red-blooded Americans among us. Regardless, his poster fails to state an issue or an honest reason to vote for him. I realize political speeches were held in front of Chambers, and I applaud the effort behind them. However, I did not encounter a single advertisement for the event. None of the campaign flyers scattered around campus provided a hint of a speech. No one ended their flyer saying, “Come hear me speak on the issues Sunday in front of Chambers.” Nor did any of the candidates make use of the Davidsonian or Libertas to provide us with a vision of their role in the SGA. On this campus, plenty of forums exist for the exchange of ideas. A candidate, for example, could sit in the Union pit and offer to answer questions passers-by might have. Creative and informative campaign approaches that reach a large audience were completely ignored. Politics should involve more than simply posting a few flyers and telling your friends to vote for you. A friend of mine suggested this phenomenon had to do with a lack of substantial issues. I disagree. Every individual has issues and concerns — ranging from the environment to community service — that could form the basis of a campaign. The SGA has 4,000 dollars allocated for “special projects.” Why doesn’t a candidate — or the SGA itself, for that matter — articulate a plan for this money other than building a needless playground? A candidate could make recycling the focus of an SGA effort to increase awareness and participation in the recycling program. The money could be used toward a campus-wide community service event or charity event. Increasingly, the SGA has become a reactive — rather than proactive — body. The only time people take an interest in the SGA is when they are reacting to an issue such as the Intervarsity debate. Where is the candidate who will take a proactive stance and campaign with a vision for the SGA?

A love affair with Davidson

My love affair with Davidson College began in September 1935. It was on this date that I entered, as a very green 16-year-old country boy, the great class of 1939. Back in 1935, most of us were poor. We had to struggle with odd jobs to pay our annual college expenses, which were under 500 dollars. Our excellent president, Dr. Walter Lingle, had assembled a great faculty. My favorites were Bill McGavock (Mathematics), Frontis Johnson (History), and Sam Knight (Chemistry). Davidson never went into debt, for its capable treasurer, Frank Jackson, worked only on a cash basis (hence his nickname “Cash”). Davidson was then, as now, a great college! Davidson had been talked about in my home as long as I can remember. My grandfather, Dr. Thomas English, graduated in 1872 as valedictorian, and all his nine grandsons — five ministers, three physicians, and one lawyer — graduated from Davidson. I was named for this wonderful seminary professor. My father, Dr. John Mack Walker Sr., also a minister, graduated from Davidson in 1907 as senior class president. My brother, Dr. John Mack Walker, Jr., also a minister, graduated in 1936 as class salutatorian. He was best remembered for his wood sculptures. You see his work “The Servant Christ” as you enter Little Library. Our family has had many memories through many years! My own first memory of Davidson was of the annual freshman cake race, when 93 out of our 200 members of the class of 1939 ran this 1.8-mile course, still very popular today. Dave Woodward, my classmate who later became an educational missionary to Tibet, and I tied for first place with a new record of 9:34.8, obliterating the old record, set by Earle Frazier in 1932, by all of 0.7 seconds! This was my first footrace ever! I chose for my prize a handsome Davidson belt buckle — the other 40 prizes were cakes — which helped me to cement my relationship with Davidson. The buckle was always with me for four years of college and three years of graduate school until the Army Air Corps in 1942 had other ideas for proper GI uniform attire. My best personal memories of Davidson are of Pete Whittle, who was for many years Davidson’s outstanding track and cross country coach and, according to many, the greatest booster the College has ever had. He was a dear friend and for four years led me through a wonderful track and cross country career. He deservedly was chosen in the first class of Davidson’s Hall of Famers. This love affair which started 62 years ago will continue until the day I die.

Walker, the first alum to contribute to what promises to become a regular feature in the Davidsonian coordinated by sophomore Read Leavitt, is a 1939 Davidson graduate. A retired pediatrician, he lives at 610 Concord Road in Davidson with his wife of fifty years, Margaret. Inspired by his cross country experience at Davidson, he competed in Olympic trial relays and nostalgically recalls completing — with his beloved daughter — the Charlotte Marathon at the age of 60.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or 2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $40 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.