4 ih So. By Michael J. Kruse Editor in Chief

Frank Santore, the play-by-play announcer for the Davidson Radio Network, desperately wants students this winter to come to men’s basketball
games — and he’s got the cash to prove it. Here are Santore’s demands:

* At least 450 students must attend every Wildcat home game starting with the Jan. 12 contest against VMI.
* At least 700 students must attend the UMass game on Jan. 22.
* And at least 1,000 students must attend the Feb. 4 conference blockbuster against defending league champion and 1997 Sweet
16 participant Chattanooga — an event Santore would like to dub the “Night of a 1,000 Wildcats.”

If Davidson students fully comply in all three respects, the third-year Voice of the Wildcats will donate $1,000 out of
his own pocket to the Student Government Association “for anything they deem necessary.”

“If they want to have a party for the whole school, that’s fine,” Santore said after Saturday night’s game versus
Carnegie Mellon. “I'll pay for it. But if we get 449 for one game, it ain’t going to happen. If
we get 699 for UMass, it ain’t going to happen.”

“It would be awesome,” SGA president Buster Burk said when informed of Santore’s proposal. “A thousand dollars, you could do
a lot with that. Yeah, the best use might be just a big party. I want to have a state
of the school address after break, and we could have a party for that. We could have lots of pizza
there and stuff.”

According to Burk, the money could also go to the Vamanos Van or Diversity Week, among other things. Ultimately, though,
the decision would not be Burk’s, as his term ends in late January.

Santore apparently came up with this idea after the Wildcats’ near miss against Wake Forest Wednesday night, a game that
saw Belk Arena house its second-largest crowd ever — 5,478, including an unprecedented 851 students.

“I felt very proud of the student body for the first time in my three years here,” he said of
the game against the 24th-ranked Demon Deacons. “They weren't lethargic. They need to support this club all season long, and
I want to give them an incentive.”

“I think this school could be the next Duke,” added Santore, a 1981 Davidson graduate who lives and practices law
in Greenville, Tenn., and commutes to Davidson and any and all away sites to broadcast all football and men’s basketball
games, and select men’s soccer, women’s basketball, and baseball games. “If Duke can have their Cameron Crazies, we can have
the Battlin’ Bastards of Belk.”

Naresh Nagella of the Davidsonian sat down with Gene Graham, a dining service worker at Vail Commons whom students know
well for both his good cooking and singing talents.

The Davidsonian: Gene, how long have you worked at the Commons?
Graham: It has been about 10 and a half years now. I plan on staying for a while, too.

D: What are your main duties, and which of those are your favorites?
G: I mainly do the short order and grill cooking because that is my favorite. Of course, that only takes
a little of my (work) time. In between meals, I clean floors or help (other cooks) prepare the meals.

D: How long do you usually work each day?
G: I do not work every day, but today my shift is from 8:30 in the morning to closing (7
p.m).

D: How long have you been singing, and is gospel your favorite type of music?
G: I have been singing all my life, even when I was just a child and, yeah, I love gospel.

D: What is your favorite gospel song?
G: “Do You Know the Man?”

D: What church do you attend, and do you sing in the choir?
G: I go to Ebenezer United Methodist Church, and I do sing in the choir. I love singing for the
congregation.

D: What is your favorite meal at the Commons?
G: I love chicken, and we do a lot of different dishes with that in it, so it’s hard to
name just one.

D: Gene, you address many of the students by saying “What do you want, ‘G?’” What does the “G” stand
for?
G: I don’t really know. It’s just slang. I always thought it was just a friendly greeting.

D: Gene, many diners at the Commons notice that pasta is probably the most common dish served. Do you know
why that is?
G: I think it is because of the vegetarians among you guys (students). Pasta is the best dish to serve
without meat in it.

D: What is your favorite thing about working at the Commons?
G: I love the people here. And,Of course, I love seeing you all (the students) come through here every day.
I am glad you all let me sing during breakfast, also.

Stoops educates about homelessness in U.S.
NCH director pays another visit to Davidson
By Jessica Goodson

News Editor

Michael Stoops, Director of the National Coalition for the Homeless and through whom several Davidson students recently experienced an “Urban
Plunge,” spoke Friday about homelessness, civil rights, and the future of poverty in the United States. This is not Stoops’s
first visit to Davidson; a year ago he held a box sleep-out on Chambers lawn during Into the Streets Week
1996 to promote awareness of homelessness. The 12-hour experiential sleep-out took place on one of the coldest nights that year.
Several Davidson students also heard him speak at the 1997 COOL (Campus Outreach and Opportunity League) Conference last March in
Cleveland, Ohio.

The speech began with a slide presentation — “Faces of Homelessness” — compiled of poignant photographs, quotations, and music which
reflected the reality of homelessness: 7.4 percent of Americans have been homeless at some point in their lives. Slides portrayed
average people and families living in tents, posting cardboard signs, waiting in unemployment lines, motionless, contemplative, and often praying. Stoops
is hopeful that the Presbyterian church, which has expressed interest in putting his slide presentation on video, will help him
fund distribution of such video tapes.

Stoops related the story of Mildred, one woman featured in the presentation, who had seen the slides before she passed
away. She said that it reminded her of photographs taken during the Great Depression. Mildred, who spent hours in the
Library of Congress pouring over Depression photos from the Works Progress Administration, had a fear of banks as a result
of her childhood experiences during the Depression — illustrated by the 600 one-dollar bills that were recovered from her belongings
after her death.

“Look into the eyes of the homeless people you see,” said Stoops. “One eye is full of despair and the
other eye is full of hope.”

Stoops became interested in advocating for the homeless after his alcoholic grandfather froze to death on a riverbank in 1959.
His Quaker upbringing also instilled him with the desire to help people who are less fortunate than he.

“Homelessness has not always been part of the urban landscape,” Stoops said. In 1980, federal social programming was cut by
75 percent because it was viewed as a “safety net” for shiftless people. As a result, said Stoops, homelessness became
increasingly visible during the decade that followed. The government currently spends $823,000,000 each year on homelessness all over the country.
Nonetheless, distributed federal funds only cover approximately 25 percent of what it costs to run a soup kitchen.

In the 1970s a typical homeless person was middle-aged and alcoholic. In 1997, the average age of a homeless person
is 25. Twenty-seven percent of homeless people are children. In fact, “the average age of a homeless person in New
York City is nine,” Stoops said. “Homeless children are unfortunately destined to become homeless adults.”

According to Stoops, the government must raise minimum wage, reform the health care system, and make affordable housing readily available
before homelessness will abate. “Any congressman who’s against raising minimum wage should have to work for it,” said Stoops.

The National Coalition for the Homeless is known for its non-traditional methods of lobbying congress. At one point, the Coalition
served several eviction notices to unsuspecting politicians and even carted the furniture out of Dan Quayle’s office. Stoops himself has
been arrested 25 times for civil disobedience, and continues to practice such activities as stealing airplane pillows and blankets and
granting overnight access to bank lobbies using his ATM card.

The Coalition lobbies in particular for homeless voting rights. In many states, the homeless are effectively prevented from voting because
they have no mailing address. In 10 such states the Coalition has passed laws granting voting rights to homeless people,
and it currently has voting rights bills in both the Senate (S.1503) and House of Representatives (H.R.74).

Forty-four percent of Americans are no longer upset by the homelessness they witness. Laws against panhandling, sitting on sidewalks, and
camping on public property are becoming increasingly common nationwide. Some officials have suggested requiring a license to panhandle. In Richmond,
Virginia, a law which prevented churches from feeding more than 30 homeless people at one time was recently rescinded, only
after repeated protest.

Stoops believes that socially enfranchised people should not discriminate against the poor. “Nobody chooses to be homeless,” said Stoops. “If
you want to find out how shabbily homeless people are treated, participate in an Urban Plunge.” As an old African
proverb states, “Poverty is slavery.”

The Outpost will be open for exam week for the first time this year, from Reading Day (Thursday) to Dec.
17. The hours will remain from 10:00 p.m.-3:00 a.m. Delivery service will also be in operation.
