THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 7, 1997

A NYT columnist will teach next semester
By NARESH NAGELLA
Associate News Editor

After a long search, the college has offered the James Batten Visiting Professorship to Tim Wicker, a New York Times
journalist. He will teach two new courses next Fall which will deal with some aspects of journalism. The course credit
will probably come from the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies.

According to junior Matt Hobbie, a student member of the search committee, choosing a person for the position is very
difficult. “We put a letter in the Davidsonian asking for suggestions and maybe a hundred very qualified people were looked
at during the process. We then ranked the top 10 and gave the final list to President Kuykendall. Everyone we
looked at would have been excellent though,” Hobbie says.

Wicker will be able to lend first-hand insight to his classes considering his high-profile “On Press” column appeared for 23
years in the New York Times. He graduated from the UNC School of Journalism in 1948 and hopes to shape
the course around “public policy and fundamentals of the press and how the two interact.” He suggested a course dealing
solely with journalism would be hard to teach at an undergraduate level because of what he states are the “varied
results of a free press.” But, by framing his journalistic knowledge in some type of specific context, he “hope[s] to
better relate and help students understand the principles of that same free press.”

“I hope to emphasize the changes in our politics and press over the last half of the century.”

Wicker has never had any previous college-level teaching experience. Hobbie believes that will make the class even better: “It will
help him to be able to teach from his experience. It is important that he is not a [traditional] professor.”

The James Batten Scholarship provides a million-dollar endowment, the interest from which pays for the new professor’s salary. The scholarship
is reserved for one new professor for a whole year every other year or one new one for a semester
each year.

Wicker says, “I look forward to being able to possibly teach at the college in the upcoming school year. It
will be nice to take on new challenges despite my professional career having finished.”

Wingate hosts Secretary of State
By ANN CULP
News Editor

Secretary of State Madeleine Albright spoke at Wingate University as part of the Jesse Helms Lecture Series two weeks ago.
Taking a few jibes at her own party, Albright said, “The chairman [of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Helms] and
I get along very well. After all, he can square dance and I’ve done the macarena and unlike the Vice-President,
I can actually move.”

Albright outlined her foreign policy agenda as keeping people safe by defending threats to America and its allies, prosperity by
increasing the global economy, and freedom by promoting American principles and values. Albright stressed the importance of ratifying the Chemical
Weapons Convention (CWC). Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Helms has “ridiculed the treaty and kept it bottled up in his
committee, but will let the committee vote on the Chemical Weapons Convention after the Easter recess so the full Senate
can consider it.”

ODK nominations for teaching, staff, and community member awards are due April 11. Nomination forms are available in the library.

Brad Chase is the first student to connect to the Internet from Knox Dorm. He is holding the campus network
map showing where his computer in his room connects to the network.

Bill GiduzSenate can decide whether to ratify it,” according to the March 26 Charlotte Observer. “The CWC helps to ensure
that others will never use chemical weapons against us and make it harder for terrorist states to build or buy
these weapons,” she says. “If we fail to ratify the convention by April, we lose the right to draft rules
by which the convention will be enforced,” Albright says. The Secretary of State highlighted America’s foreign policy in Asia, the
Middle East, and Europe as reflecting “not altruism, but realism,” frequently calling it “both right and smart.” Albright urged President
Clinton to support international affairs programs, claiming that it is “1% of the US Budget which affects 100% of the
American people.” “Our goal is to see American workers have a level playing field on which to compete,” said Albright.
“If countries want to sell in our backyard, they had better let Americans do business in theirs.”

Albright also addressed worldwide abuses against women. “Some say this is cultural... I say it’s criminal, and we each have
the responsibility to stop it,” said Albright. Albright used God’s still small voice in the story of Elijah in the
Hebrew Scriptures as a metaphor for the strength of America’s foreign policy. She emphasized America’s ability “to separate right and
wrong and believe in its heart in the birthright of every human being to be free. Republicans and Democrats, old
and young, rich and poor, heed that voice. Let us build a future on what is smart and what is
right. Toward that end, I pledge my own best efforts and ask your help.”

Hitting the homepage
By NARESH NAGELLA
Associate News Editor

The revamped college web page can now be accessed, and students are happy about the changes in the new “virtual
Davidson.” Now at http://www.davidson.edu web surfers will be greeted by a web page with pictures of students and a clearer,
more graphical interface that lets them access different information about the College.

The old page only featured the Davidson logo and offered a brief history of the school. The links to other
areas of the college were given in a simple bullet list format. Junior Sean Keesee says, “It is really nice
to see how fancy the web page has gotten. Prospective students will log onto these pages and get their first
impression of the school. It is important that we make sure it is the best it can be.” The new
web page has a feature that lets web surfers see how many times each different web page that works off
the college server gets “hit.” The college web page is accessed over 700 times a day. Junior Dave Jackson, who
has a picture on the web page, is very excited about it. “Overall, the new page has a multidimensional quality
that only the best web pages can get. I would like to see more moving graphics or rotating pictures though,”
he says. Sophomore Fahd Gul hopes the new page will get students more interested in the internet. “Students now have
more capabilities to access the power of the internet. They can set up their own web pages and make sure
their club’s activities or events will be publicized in the ‘News and Events’ section. The page can only better aid
the campus’ communications and reputation,” says Gul.

Web page coordinators Ron Chapple and Bryan Skelton will appreciate student comments about the page and can be reached at
rchapple@maui.net and bskelton@robnorris.com. Jerry Stockdale, director of college relations, can also field opinions at webmaster@davidson.edu.
