7 THE DAVIDSONIAN Op-Ed MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1997

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editors
JESSICA GOODSON
KRISTEN BARTCH

Opinions Editors
CARRIE MORRIS
NARESH NAGELLA

Associate Arts & Living Editor
DAVID SANTSCHI

Advertising Managers
SCOTT REEDER
JAY CANTRELL

Sports Editor
CINDY CLARK

Layout Editors
MICHELLE BOUGDANOS
RANDALL SKATTUM
DAVID JOHNSTON

Copy Editors
WHITNEY BLAKE
ANNA ERIKSSON

Business Manager
CHLOE BROOKE

Circulation Managers
CHLOE BROOKE
LYNSAY MADLEY

Arts & Living Editor
McNEIL CARSWELL

Photo Editor
WESLEY GOLDSBERRY

Web Page Manager
ANNA JUDY

Editor in Chief
HENDI FINK

Associate Editor
MICHAEL J. KRUSE

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

Show some judgement this weekend

Dear members of the Class of 2001:

More of you will simultaneously consume ridiculous — not to mention unhealthy — amounts of alcohol Friday night — as
a group, more than you ever have before and probably ever will again. With the amount of hype — groundless
hype, by the way — surrounding the phenomenon known as First Night Down, it is not surprising that first-year students
find it necessary (or even obligatory) to initiate the Greek — or, in Davidson's case, pseudo-Greek — side of their
burgeoning collegiate experience by guzzling hazardous amounts of alcoholic beverages.

The gates to Patterson Court open for you this weekend. It's something new. And generally speaking, at this early juncture
of the next four years of your life, you have not yet learned the art of moderation. Whatever you do,
you do a lot of it. Showing some self-restraint is not high on your list of things to do. Nor,
really, should it be in this often trial-and-error stage of your development.

When all is said and done, there is nothing inherently wrong with drinking. As long as it is done in
a reasonable and responsible fashion. And while no editorial is going to prevent you from drinking this weekend, or any
weekend, for that matter — heavily or otherwise — there is still something to be said for personal judgement. Even
on First Night Down.

And, upperclassmen, this message applies to you too. After all, personal judgement, above all else — including even GPAs, APs,
SATs, and the rest of the academic alphabet soup — is what got us here. And that doesn’t end on
the Court, no matter what night it is.

It’s not just a game. It’s an event.

Here’s what F.W. Price, the first editor of the Davidsonian, wrote in his editorial on April 15, 1914: “There has
been a lot of talk about the lack of ‘pep’ at Davidson. And there are grounds for this talk. There
has been no organized ‘rooting’ at any of the baseball games this season, and the team has not been able
to find a strong collegiate spirit behind it. What is the matter? Is Davidson spirit a thing of the past?”

What’s the matter is that Davidson is too small and too academically rigorous for students to regularly attend sporting events
— at least if they want to maximize their potential in the classroom. Why crowds at Richardson Field, Belk Arena,
Wildcat Park, and every other athletic venue on...Campus are usually embarrassingly sparse is no secret. But Saturday’s football game at
1:30 p.m. against Sewanee, which will officially celebrate 100 years of intercollegiate football at Davidson, is an event that must
not be missed. The entire day, chock-full of activities commemorating the anniversary — including a pre-game parade at 12:30 that
will run from Main Street to Concord Road to Richardson Field — is more an institution-wide festival than a mere
athletic event. The administration is treating this as a special occasion. Students — each and every one of them —
should recognize that by showing, as Price would say, a strong collegiate spirit.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per
student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148. Copyright is
held by the Trustees of Davidson College. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union
building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board
of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $40 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

To the Editor:

I want to compliment the Davidsonian on a great start to a new year. The news editors, Jessica Goodson and
Naresh Nagella, presented the CORE Alcohol and Drug data in a balanced and thoughtful manner. This is a survey that
took place last spring with 253 students participating. I appreciate their interest in these statistics and look forward to future
articles and discussions as more number crunching takes place.

There are some data that I find particularly encouraging and would like to emphasize. In terms of binge drinking data
(number of times a student consumed five or more drinks in the past two weeks), 58.21 percent of the females
and 42.31 percent of the males reported no binge drinking. If we include binging once to none in the past
two weeks, 51.93 percent of males are included. Twenty-nine-point-eight percent of the students surveyed stated that they had not consumed
alcohol in the past week, 23 percent in the past month, and 14 percent in the past year. In terms
of housing preference, 19.6 percent of the respondents indicated that they would like to live in an alcohol and drug-free
residence hall. Our data closely reflects that of other small, private four-year colleges. These numbers provide a basis of support
for those students, often a majority, who do not wish to drink or who want to drink moderately.

Georgia Ringle
Health Educator

To submit letters to the editor:

Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Thursday at 6 p.m. Or
e-mail any submissions to Editor in Chief Michael Kruse at mikruse@davidson.edu. Keep all submissions under 400 words. The editors reserve
the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions as space requirements mandate.
