Che Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors-in-Chief
RANDY HARTWELL
TERESA WHITE

Arts & Living Editor
HEATHER LARSON

Cartoonist
CHRIS MOORE

Assoc. Arts & Living Editor
JEFFERY CROMARTIE

Business and Circulation Mgrs.
CHLOE BROOKE
McNEIL CARSWELL

Associate Editor
MATTHEW EIRICH

Sports Editors
WILL BRADSHAW
ANN CULP

News Editor
MICHAEL KRUSE

Advertising Managers
JOHN EARLY
PETER MARTIN

Associate News Editor
NARESH NAGELLA

Photo Editor
ANNA JUDY

Web Page Managers
CLAY LENHART

Opinions Editors
BRAD CHASE
KRISTEN BARTCH

Copy Editors
BETH BACON
ERIC PENDERGRASS
DAVID SANTSCHI
PENNY WALL

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Rewards of Sacrifice

People look forward to their senior spring semester the way fiancés think about their wedding trip to Jamaica or harried executives anticipate an afternoon round of golf. Idyllic visions of idle relaxation dance in their heads. Pictures of classes that don’t matter, barbeques on the porch, and tanning at the lake float in imaginations, alongside expectations of a smooth coast to graduation.

We, too, had those expectations, which for good or bad, never became reality. Through a combination of circumstances, we were the only ones willing and qualified enough to take on the positions of Editors-in-Chief of The Davidsonian. This wasn’t the way we planned to make lasting memories the last semester of our senior years, yet much of what we will recall fondly after May 18 — indeed, much of what we hold dear about Davidson — is synonymous with our work on the newspaper. Through it, we have cemented binding friendships, we have learned more about the ins and outs (don’t miss the Year in Review story, page 3) of Davidson specifically, and higher education in general, than we ever thought we would know, and we have satisfied our own curiosities about what it is that makes Davidson Davidson.

But The Davidsonian is a business; we assemble a product, which brings us to why we ever consented to give up 30 hours of our weekends, dreams of stressless springs, and hopes of good grades. What we feel (though it may not always show) is a deep responsibility to the printed word, a sense of duty to journalistic ethics. These ethics have been questioned inside and out of the paper, and despite the errors of oversight and judgment that we inevitably make, we feel that we hold to standards set by newspapers throughout the country. These standards include an understood difference between Letters to the Editors, which generally beg immediate response from the editors, and articles in the Opinions section, which address the Davidson community as a whole and where it would be unfair to rebut without giving the community a chance to do the same.

We strive for impartiality in our news articles, but while recognizing that what is unusual gathers more interest and so deserves more attention. Likewise, what we place on the front page is governed by what we think readers are interested in, whether the story be about an organization’s fight to receive an SGA charter or the canceling of a popular campus forum.

The criticism The Davidsonian has received this semester is heartening in a way — it proves that there are actually readers out there and that they do actually care about what they read. It also has made us realize more than ever our devotion to the paper, to the staff, and to the school. Michael Kruse or David Kaul could compare our efforts to the energy and time many athletes sacrifice. While they probably have a more efficient system of workout, the sweat, teamwork, and service involved parallels ours, and each of us strives to do the best we can with the talent and facilities available. Writing is essentially a sport to us, something we do.because we love the challenge of it and because we love the end result. One could say we were shamed into editing, that we would be embarrassed to put out a paper that didn’t say what was true, that didn’t look good, that wasn’t interesting to read, even if it meant sleeping more than a half hour Sunday nights and finishing an assignment on time for once. In short, we couldn’t bear to publish a newspaper of which we weren’t proud. We hope that The Davidsonian will continue to find allegiance among the student body, people willing to drop nearly everything for it, people willing to take on the large responsibilities, and the incredible rewards. As seen by our rise to “power,” our numbers are small and shrinking. Next semester Michael Kruse and Liz Sale have graciously agreed to assume command. We wish them luck and patience, and hope that The Davidsonian offers them as much as it has given us.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Mondays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

MONDAY, APRIL 28, 1997

LETTERS

Davidson’s Loss
To the Editors:
Every now and then, a person arrives in our town that makes a difference in our lives; one who participates in and makes a significant contribution to our town, our College, and his church. One who is always available to his students, to his friends, and to his colleagues with a ready smile, remarkable compassion, and keen wit. I, and a host of others, will miss you, Mitch Rhea, and thank you for helping to make Davidson a better place.
Harriet Kessler
Assistant Director, Annual Fund

Thanks from Ben & Jerry’s
To the Editors:
As the manager of Ben and Jerry’s Ice Cream and Frozen Yogurt, I would like to thank the students and faculty of Davidson College for helping to make Free Cone Day/Customer Appreciation Day a grand success. This year, for the first time, we accepted “tips” to benefit the Senior Nutrition Program and Bethlehem Center-Head Start Program at the Ada Jenkins Center. We raised $258 to be shared between those services. I know many of the students contributed to the effort. Thank you so much. I would also like to give special thanks to our “celebrity” scoopers: Tom Shandiey, Buster Burk, and Bill Giduz. They were the highlight of the day and helped to make Customer Appreciation Day “fun and funky” Ben and Jerry’s style!
Karen Toney, Manager

Preserve for Posterity
To the Editors:
As the official repository of Davidson College, the Archives seeks anything and everything that pertains to the history of the College. Currently, we are seeking any documents/brochures/flyers/minutes produced by the College’s student organizations. So, while you are cleaning out your desks for summer vacation, and you find some flyers designed by a student organization, please send them our way! We are located on the second floor of the library, and we’d love to see you.
Jan Blodgett, College Archivist
Molly Gillespie ’96, Assistant to College Archivist

We aren't joking this time. Buy the t-shirts. If you wear that insipid “Princeton ...The Davidson of the North” shirt, you certainly should wear your school newspaper’s. And we are ‘The South’s Foremost College Weekly.”