SPORTS 13 MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1997

Kruse’s Cubby

Dear Panthers fans

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

On the heels of the Panthers’ dreamy trip to the NFC Championship game, a retraction, an apology, perhaps even an explanation is in order. Being the big man I am, I offer this:

Dear Panthers fans,

I must apologize to you, the Panthers zealots, the loud and proud teal mass, the little people who made Panthermania the calling card of the Carolinas for the past six months. Your support, along with your team’s improbable yet convincing success, put the region on the professional sports map and the city of Charlotte in the national limelight.

This Cubby goes out to Kerry Collins, Wesley Walls, Kevin Greene, Lamar Lathon, Sam Mills, et al., not to mention Joe Pantherfan. I underestimated and disrespected your beloved pigskin squad time and time again, as my acidic Northern cynicism reared its razor-sharp fangs.

“So Panthers fans, I don’t care if you beat the damn 49ers,” I wrote in this space back on Sept. 23 following Carolina’s shocking 23-7 win over the perennial NFC West kings. “You’re still an expansion team. And you’re still not going to win the Super Bowl.”

But the Panthers proved me wrong. (Not to say that is a difficult task or rare occurrence.) Although the Panthers ultimately stumbled at the doorstep of the Super Bowl, they did capture the nation’s attention, gained its respect, and certainly shed the expansion label. Their meteoric rise to the summit of the NFL mountain was as remarkable as it was unexpected and set new standards for swift and effective operation of an expansion franchise.

For that, I respect the Panthers, top to bottom. The front office. The players. The fans. You can’t argue with such unprecedented and legitimate success. I even rooted for the good ol’ boys in their NFC divisional playoff conquest of the Dallas Cowboys, essentially “America’s Team” for all the wrong reasons.

But to respect is not necessarily to like. That is, I am not suddenly a rabid Carolina fanatic. Far from it. In my opinion, being a fan and suffering are one in the same. The bond between fan and team is strengthened - no, created - through hardship and heartbreak. Years of losing, a handful of almost-but-no-cigars, forgotten can’t-miss draft picks, these are all things en route to winning. Sorry, but Carolina’s 7-9 maiden voyage doesn’t qualify.

Frankly, you Panthers people don’t really know yet what it is to be true fans. Because support is a two-way thoroughfare. You know one way - the shiny, happy one. You don’t, conversely, know the other, where the grass is not nearly so green. Perhaps you will next year when the Panthers face the likes of Green Bay, Washington, Dallas, Denver, and, of course, San Francisco twice. (Not that I’m making any predictions.)

See Panthers on page 15

Men’s hoops start conference play

Team avenges last year’s SC tourney loss by dumping Western

Anna Judy Landry Kosmalski squares to the basket in UTC’s win Saturday.

By Daniel Motz
Staff Writer

Revenge was the order of business last week as the Davidson men’s basketball team kicked their Southern Conference schedule into gear. The Wildcats rallied to top the Catamounts on Monday, 80-71, avenging the heartbreaking 69-60 loss to Western Carolina in last year’s Southern Conference tournament final.

On Saturday, it was Davidson (8-7, 2-2) which fell to an inspired Tenn.-Chattanooga squad, 74-63, helping the Mocs erase memories from a 70-58 Wildcat victory in Chattanooga a year ago.

The Catamounts (7-8, 0-4) came out firing in the first half on Monday. Joe Stafford’s ten points, including two threes, helped Western Carolina take a 38-31 halftime lead. The Catamounts continued to apply pressure, starting the second half with two quick field goals giving Western a substantial 43-31 lead, forcing Davidson coach Bob McKillop to call a timeout with 19:03 left to play.

“I don’t usually call a timeout that early in a half,” said McKillop. “But I felt I needed to reinforce some things I said at the half. We were back on our heels, letting them come to us, and we needed to be more aggressive on both ends of the floor.”

And the Wildcats responded. In the next seven minutes, Davidson went on a 20-6 run, capped by a Narcisse Ewodo three-point basket, giving the Wildcats a 51-49 lead. The Catamounts rebounded and recaptured a 62-57 lead. But the Wildcats’ defensive intensity sparked a 23-9 game-ending run that gave them the victory.

“Davidson’s defense was excellent,” said Western coach Phil Hopkins. “We can take some things away from this game. Davidson showed tonight that defense, not offense, wins games. That is something we need to learn.”

It marked the first time this season that Davidson won after trailing at the half. “It is nice to know that we can do that,” said McKillop. “We showed our ability to come back as a team, offensively and defensively.”

Ewodo led the Wildcats with 28 points, Chadd Holmes added 13, and freshman Stephen Marshall recorded a career-high 11 and six rebounds.

“Stephen showed his various abilities tonight,” said McKillop. “He can rebound, get into position to score in the paint, and he can play from the perimeter.”

Revenge was certainly on the Wildcats’ mind, and although Monday’s game cannot erase last year’s painful defeat, it can help soothe the wounds.

“We went out there and played hard,” said Ewodo. “We like to play one game at a time, but this onewas special.” Against the powerful and athletic Mocs, the Wildcats again fell behind early. Plagued by poor shooting, Davidson made just nine of 33 field goals (27%) in the first half. UTC (9-7, 3-0) dominated the Wildcats early inside. “We lost the game in the first ten minutes in the paint,” said McKillop. “We gave up post position, we gave up second shot opportunities. We were very unaggressive with the ball, and that’s where it all started.”

Preseason Southern Conference player of the year Johnny Taylor, who drew three NBA scouts to the ballgame, including former Hornets head coach Allan See.

Conference page 15

Swimmers split first meet of second semester
By Witt Bradshaw
Sports Editor

Fighting injuries, the men’s and women’s swimming and diving teams traveled to Wilmington this weekend for a double dual meet with Florida A&M and UNC Wilmington. Both squads dominated Florida A&M (men 145.5 - 57.5, women 127 - 26), but fell to UNCW (men 128 - 110, women 126 - 101).

“I felt pretty good about (the meet),” team co-captain Dave Maddux said. “I know some people weren’t pleased with times coming off the training trip (in Florida during the last week of Christmas vacation). As a whole, we were better against them than I expected. I don’t remember ever being as competitive with them as we were yesterday.

“Rich (DeSelm) expressed his desire and predicted the day when we will beat them. I expect it sooner than later. We held our own yesterday, and given a couple more weeks of rest, we would have done even better.”

The effort put forth was even more impressive in light of the injuries to many swimmers. Kathleen Paffenroth has been slowed by a bicep strain. Mark Medendorp didn’t travel to Wilmington because of shoulder problems. Allison Beebe is scheduled to have shoulder surgery on Mar. 3, after the season is over. Britta Toleman, Jennifer Hillmann, and Mary Noel George are battling injuries of their own, and the list doesn’t end with them.

“There were a lot of people that couldn’t come. I think it’s hard,” Zannah Bozzone, one of the unwounded, said. “People are dealing with it well. Hopefully we’ll all get healed and better before Southern States. They’re just trying to keep up doing what they can do. It is really hard on them, because they want to do as much as everybody else, and they just can’t.”

“Swimming is a sport of overuse. We overtrain. Sometimes it is difficult for motivated athletes to distinguish between the pain of exertion and the pain that is causing injury,” DeSelm said. “(The people fighting injuries) are all managing them very well. Everyone is healing, but everyone is not healthy yet.”

Despite this, the Wildcats put on a gutsy display Saturday. Bozzone won the 1000 free (10:40.61), finished third in the 200 back (2:10.48), and swam the lead leg of the second place 400 free relay (3:49.25). Mary Shell Brosche swam another strong meet winning the 500 free (5:12.60), grabbing second in the 200 IM (2:11.34), and swimming the third leg of one 400 medley relay (4:12.69, third).

“I was pretty happy with how I did. I got all best times of the season or close,” Bozzone said. “Last time I did a thousand, it was not a pretty sight. I felt like I made that better. I was pretty happy with it. My 200 back, I felt like it could have been stronger. It was close to my best time, and I think it was, but two other girls beat me. The thousand was good because I won.”

Kathleen Cook swam a best time in the 200 back (2:26.19, eighth), and Tonya Werner completed the grand slam. She finished fifth in the 1000 free (11:15.84), fourth in the 200 IM (2:18.54), and sixth in the 500 free (5:34.48).

“I was pleased with my swims,” Werner said. “Right now we’re at a transition phase of our season. Due to that, everyone feels a little different in the water. Some people feel sluggish, and others feel great. I felt mediocre, but I was happy with my swims.

“We came together well as a team. It was a good meet to get us all together after our training trip and start preparing for Southern States.”

On the men’s side, Sam Kuykendall won the 200 fly (1:59.64), Keith Nelson and Scott Harper tied for first in the 200 IM (1:59.66), the 400 free relay team of Nelson, Bill Patterson, Freddy Schnell, and Maddux won (3:16.27), and the 400 medley relay of Terry Dolch, Matt Lake, Harper, and Mike McCabe grabbed second in 3:34.88, only 1.5 seconds off the school record set in the 1995 Southern States meet.

Rob Saldin turned in a season best performance in the 200 fly (2:03.13, third), and Maddux shattered his lifetime best in the 500 free by seven seconds, swimming under five minutes for the first time (4:56.90, fourth). Lake swam the 200 breast for the first time in 23 months and came away with a win (2:14.24).

“They’re just now starting to have me swim the 500,” Maddux said. “My physical stamina has been there for a while, but mentally I’ve just been able to approach it well recently. The coaches have been grooming me this year to swim the 500, and I had a great swim to surprise a lot of people, and myself. It’s a definite third event for me at Southern States.”