OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 17, 1997

"I have been drinking and driving for the past twenty years and never gotten into an accident." This is something that I heard on the Friday just before spring break (the end of Alcohol Awareness Week) not by a student, but by a professor. As I walked into class, the professor was already recalling how insensitive and ineffective the “Jaws of Life Demonstration” on the previous Wednesday had been.

As a current member of the Rescue Squad and Fire Department back at home in New Jersey, and as a participant in the demonstration on Wednesday with the Davidson Fire Department of which I am also a member, I felt a need to rebut the argument of my professor. Not only was I concerned that he/she had not understood the purpose of the demonstration, but I was also greatly offended being that I am an individual who volunteers to be involved in organizations that deal with tragic situations like auto accidents.

It started off with Professor X making the classic assertion of how the whole scenario was insensitive to people who have had friends or relatives die in auto accidents, whether they were related to alcohol or not. My point was that the scenario we had portrayed did not have malicious intent to reopen old wounds for these people, it was to show what can happen in the event of an alcohol-related accident. Any individual who has spent time with any first-responder agency can attest that although it is true that not every accident is as bad as the one portrayed in front of the Union, there are some that are much worse.

With regard to the time in which we removed these "victims," if anyone would like to hear exactly what some instances are like, please feel free to contact me at x6391. I’d be more than happy to tell students and faculty alike exactly what I have experienced, hoping that it will serve to further educate people on the dangers of drinking and driving. It is important to realize that this was intended for portrayal of drinking and driving and not for other causes of auto accidents.

Professor X next questioned the over-dramatization of the incident. He/she said that it was much too excessive; we had two actual students acting as victims who had been ejected from the car and a dummy in the back seat that we extricated. For Professor X and anyone who saw the scenario and questions its dramatic qualities, I can assure you (just as well as any individual who has spent time with any first-responder agency can) that although it is true that not every accident is as bad as the one portrayed in front of the Union, there are some that are much worse.

The last statement Professor X made was possibly one of the most irresponsible and shocking statements that I have ever heard. Professor X clearly said that he/she had drunk and then driven on countless instances over the past twenty years and had never gotten into an accident. The point that I believe he/she was trying to demonstrate was that some people do drink and drive and are lucky enough not to get involved in an accident. I can neither deny nor prove this fact, yet I was greatly offended.

In the course of Alcohol Awareness Week, many people had given of their time and efforts, many voluntarily, to demonstrate possible effects of alcohol to students and faculty who haven’t had the opportunity to see them. In no way am I saying that if you have a beer and then drive, you are going to be wrapped around a telephone pole at two in the morning waiting for rescue personnel to cut you out of the car, but I am saying that a grave danger is posed to those who choose to drink and drive, or to ride with those who do.

Despite whatever intentions the professor had, a comment such as the one that he/she made was totally out of order. The purpose of this article isn’t to point fingers or get people into trouble, but to try and educate those who didn’t get the point of Alcohol Awareness Week the first time. I can only hope that next time a little more appreciation will be shown to all of the individuals and organizations that contribute to Alcohol Awareness Week and that teachers like Professor X will exercise more responsibility when deciding to comment on sensitive issues such as drinking and driving.

A senior White House staffer strolls down a corridor from her spacious office in the Old Executive Office Building to attend a briefing. A foreign businessman steps across her path, greets her pleasantly, and offers her an envelope. The staffer takes it, promising to mail it to the addressee the next morning. An ordinary transaction? Not when the staffer is the First Lady's Chief of Staff and the envelope contains a $50,000 contribution to the Democratic National Committee (DNC).

Under circumstances similar to this hypothetical case, Chinese businessman Johnny Chung gave Hillary Rodham Clinton’s Chief of Staff, Maggie Williams, a contribution to the DNC in exchange for “face time” with the president during his weekly radio address. The United States Criminal Code states that...“‘It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit or receive any contribution... in any room occupied in the discharge of official duties.” The White House claims that there was nothing illegal about Ms. Williams’ action. She did not technically receive the contribution; she neither recorded it nor cashed it nor stored it for future processing. She only transmitted it to its intended recipient much like a trucking company hauls freight. The administration is right about this. And the same conclusion could be reached about other matters recently in the headlines: overnight stays in the Lincoln Bedroom and coffees for large contributors, the Vice President’s soft-money solicitations from his White House telephone, Johnny Chung’s more than fifty White House visits since 1994, and improper contributions returned under suspicious circumstances. This is troubling, not for its illegality but for its dangerous mixing of official duties with private political fundraising; in this case, a DNC check handled by White House staff exchanged for attendance at an official address. These revelations form a pattern showing that the amenities and status that the White House affords were used as a part of broader partisan fundraising.

Our perspective in discussing these issues should not be limited to questions of legality—just because something is legal does not make it ethical or even desirable. During these fundraising crises, the president and others immediately declared that “nothing illegal was done.” Al Gore repeated that no “controlling legal authority” prevented him from using call sheets to target donors to the DNC. This lawyerly defense is hardly reassuring. One wishes that they could defend their behavior by claiming that they acted completely ethically rather than just protesting that they did nothing illegal. Unfortunately, they cannot. Expressions of regret over recent fundraising activities or a willingness to eliminate future lapses were shamefully absent from White House statements. Strangely, officials even seemed proud of their behavior and saw no problem in rewarding donors with overnights or soliciting money in official rooms.

Legality aside, there are serious problems of perception and ethics here. The actions of executive branch officials should be held to a higher standard than legality. The administration should not concentrate on acting legally but on eliminating activities that could even possibly be construed as improper or unethical. This is not to suggest the White House has a monopoly on unethical behavior and fundraising abuses. Republicans have certainly done similar things under different circumstances. That is why the Senate has decided to investigate both congressional and White House fundraising practices. The Senate Government Affairs Committee will not only examine potentially illegal conduct but also that which is deemed to be “improper.” The Senate has recognized that maintaining public trust in government requires officials to conduct themselves not just legally but ethically and responsibly as well. America needs assurance that the White House is not routinely being disgraced as a tool to reward political contributors.

Naresh Nagella

Race Relations

Last Saturday, I attended a rather constructive forum about race and differences on campus. These forums are held to help people talk about their differences and try to learn more about why racial and ethnic groups are so divided on campus. The existence of such a forum indicates that problems do exist between racial groups. But it also says there is a committed group of people willing to improve them. Race is never an easy topic to discuss, and each group always has valid points to defend actions they see as well-intentioned or fair. After the civil rights movement, the discussion has largely turned away from one about injustice to how different people can integrate better overall. The forum wrestled with the big question of whether minorities should incorporate themselves into a predominantly white culture and turn away from their roots or whether whites should change more to better accept people of different races. We dealt with the issues of scholarships, the court, and basic race division on campus. These discussions can go on forever. We are all different people and will see things differently. It is hard to say if one perfect solution exists for the problem. I doubt it does.

Still, I did come to a couple of conclusions about what people can substantively do about race and differences to begin working on problems. Passivity and a quest for separation should be rejected outright. Honestly discussing race and trying to learn about our differences is incredibly worthy in itself. Along with an eternal vigilance to make sure racism does not raise its ugly head, that is all people who are concerned about race relations need to do, and it is the least they should be required to do. Whether or not you want affirmative action, race-based scholarships, a diverse student body, etc., is fine as long as your opinion is informed. You must ensure a diverse college population or at least publicly denounce trying to have one, if that is how you feel. We all know Davidson is committed to diversity, and we all come here knowing that, so we should utilize what diversity we have better than we do. The basic step and most practical widespread solution to immediately better understanding our differences does not mean integrating the court or increasing our ethnic numbers. It means talking with someone who comes from a different background than you. A suggestion at the forum was just to make sure that people eat with a person of a different background and talk. The benefits of “just connecting” are enough and will be naturally realized. All you need to do is talk and reach, and you will "connect."