6 THE DAVIDSONIAN ELSEWHERE MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1997

Court issue balanced abortion rulings

Both sides of the abortion issue won legal battles last week as the Supreme Court dealt with issues of protecting
rights to abortion and to protest. A 6-3 majority reaffirmed the power of local courts to protect patients’ rights to
access the doorways and driveways of clinics. The court also ruled with an 8-1 majority that a New York judge
went too far in trying to limit protesters’ peaceful activities down the street. The judge was enforcing the Clinic Access
Act that was made into law in 1993. The Act limited the activities of protestors near abortion clinics to allow
future patients more privacy and ease of entrance to the clinics.

Chief Justice William Rehnquist stated that in America, like it or not, there is no “generalized right to be let
alone on a public street or sidewalk.” It could make it harder for an anguished woman who has decided that
she must terminate a dangerous or unwanted pregnancy and would prefer to be shielded from protests. But, the Court decided
that the right to choose an abortion did not violate the free speech rights of others. Anti-abortion activists did not
get exactly what they desired either since their “sidewalk counselors” can still not have unlimited access to clinic doors. The
judges said that if such protestors were asked to desist, they must.

The Court was trying to allow local judges an opportunity to use their discretion to carefully impose the balanced protection
for abortion rights that does not destroy the basic right to protest. Pro-life groups are still not happy with the
required 15 feet buffer zones since they fear they will still not be able to warn abortion seekers about the
possible dangers associated with having an abortion or to offer them alternatives. Pro-choice groups were relatively happy with the decisions
but fear that such a close buffer zone might still allow more extreme acts of abortion protests like shootings or
illegal harassment. The mixed reactions on both sides probably indicate that the Court found the legal room and precedents for
the interests of both sides of the issue.

Sources: The New York Times and USA Today

Clinton bans “gag rule” for Medicaid patients

The President used executive powers to ban Medicaid providers from concealing possible treatments to patients that are insured under the
program which covers the poor and disabled. In December, the President announced that the controversial Health Maintenance Organization (H.M.O.) practice
could not apply to Medicare patients in such programs either. The President also encouraged Congress to pass a similar law
that would mandate that all H.M.O.’s could not have “gag rules.”

Most of these recipients are blue-collar workers. Many critics of H.M.O.’s state that patients are systematically denied access to hearing
all their options due to the high cost of some treatments. Some doctors fear that the rule is phasing out
a key aspect of their job since they can no longer tell patients frankly what all their options are. H.M.O.
organizations have said they would try to eliminate the rule themselves, but Iowa representative, Republican Greg Ganske, states those mean
nothing since they “have no enforcement mechanism.”

Insurance providers insist that laws will not help make positive changes. They insist customer satisfaction with the programs is high
and that changes should be initiated from that level. They also claim the law will raise the cost of insurance
premiums. Many view the President’s statements and the bipartisan interest in the ban as...part of new government efforts to seek
a more active role in determining health care policy. Sources: The New York Times and USA Today

DAVIDSON MEN, DONATE YOUR OLD CLOTHES TO THE UPTOWN MEN'S SHELTER. PLACE THE CLOTHES IN THE BOXES IN YOUR LOBBIES.

From Warner Hall, Saturday, Feb. 15: 36 CDs and a CD player. Reward. Call Scott Harper -6116

LOST: Like, oh and like, he said that, a totally tubular hunk and all, cute, and he like kissed my
God, like, Ghee - like, he was like, he was SOOOOOOOO spk.

DISTRIBUTED BY TRIBUNE MEDIA SERVICES

Beyond Davidson: Davidsonian International

Deng Xiaoping dies

Chinese leader and Communist revolutionary Deng Xiaoping died at the age of 92. Xiaoping gave up his position as Chairman
of the Party in 1989. He is credited for keeping power for so long and trying his best to incorporate
free markets into China while not losing too much tradition or history. He will have a simple funeral as he
desired.

U.S. - Colombia reach accord

The U.S. and Colombian government agreed to a maritime agreement last week that would give the Coast Guard greater ability
to intercept possible drug-running vessels. Before, the Coast Guard could not go within about 188 miles of the Colombian coast.
Now, the zone has been limited to about 12 miles.

National...

Promise seen in marijuana

An expert panel of the National Institutes of Health said marijuana showed promise for fighting symptoms of some medical conditions
and recommended further study. The head of the panel said it would have recommendations on possible marijuana studies within the
next month. The Clinton administration has questioned the medical basis for marijuana and insists it should not be allowed liberally
in those means.

Lott praises donation rules

The Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-Mississippi) told 200 of the Republican party’s most generous donors that unlimited donations were
“the American way.” Many others have urged limits on campaign contributions since both parties have tripled their 1992 funds last
year. Sources for International and National: The New York Times and USA Today

Local...

School assaults rise

Attacks and threats against Charlotte-Mecklenburg school employees are up 46% this year. Officials state the increase is due to better
disciplinary standards that allow teachers to report incidents easier. Source: The Charlotte Observer

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Fountain drink
5 Hobo
14 Icelandic tales
15 Tints
16 Tracking device
17 Dock
18 Chills
19 Poem
20 Particle
22 Holy oil
24 Costly fur
26 Epoch
27 Snake
30 Authors
34 Corn unit
35 Rental agreement
37 Dice roll
38 Ripening factor
40 Vision
42 Long detailed report
43 Skirt fold
45 Of ships
47 Hammarskjold
48 Retired persons
11 Lavish affection upon
12 Portal
13 Group of soldiers
63 Find the answer
21 Go by ship
23 Eye section
65 Money in Italy
25 Acquires
66 Sailing
67 Carrier
27 Harvests
68 Arabian ruler
28 Large bird
69 Unwanted plant
29 Primp
70 Little fights
71 Care for

ANSWERS
1. Fountain drink
2. Hobo
3. Icelandic tales
4. Tints
5. Tracking device
6. Dock
7. Chills
8. Poem
9. Particle
10. Holy oil
11. Costly fur
12. Epoch
13. Snake
14. Authors
15. Corn unit
16. Rental agreement
17. Dice roll
18. Ripening factor
19. Vision
20. Long detailed report
21. Skirt fold
22. Of ships
23. Hammarskjold
24. Retired persons
25. Lavish affection upon
26. Portal
27. Group of soldiers
28. Find the answer
29. Go by ship
30. Eye section
31. Money in Italy
32. Acquires
33. Sailing
34. Carrier
35. Harvests
36. Arabian ruler
37. Large bird
38. Unwanted plant
39. Primp
40. Little fights
41. Care for
