THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1997 9

© Sororities at Davidson: Not worth ‘the trouble

Decided and even indifferent to the issue. After some thought, and hearing the arguments on both sides, I have come to a conclusion. I am a sophomore and a member of Connor eating house. In high school, I never thought I would join a sorority (or any social affiliation) in college because I didn’t think I was the type. I had even come to the decision of not joining an eating house, which I did not reconsider until several days before self-selection forms were due. Seeing the excitement of my friends at the thought of joining a house made me think my decision over. The cons did not seem to outweigh the pros, so I got the shaving cream/champagne treatment and became a member of Connor House — a decision I do not regret. I now realize that there is no sorority- or eating house-type, and many strong-minded, independent women join both all over the United States. Stereotypes are not the reason the prospect of sororities worries me.

First of all, concern for the safety of the current eating house system makes me uneasy about the prospect of sororities. Though supporters claim that sororities would not take away from the role of eating houses but rather complement it, I disagree. Ask any group of women on this campus why they chose Davidson, and at least one will answer, “Because there are no sororities.” Whether Davidson recognizes this fact or not, the absence of sororities has played a part in the decision of all of Davidson’s female students to attend here. I say this because every female currently enrolled at Davidson came to this college fully aware that sororities do not exist on this campus. It is not a big secret. Women who want sororities to be a part of their college experience choose to attend other schools, while those who do not choose Davidson. With sororities on campus, this fact would be reversed, and the “greek” atmosphere on campus would be severely affected.

Women would dismiss the idea of eating houses before truly understanding the advantages of the self-selection system. Even if eating houses and sororities could coexist, eating houses would eventually become feeder groups for certain sororities, destroying the inter-house unity eating house officers have worked so hard to nurture — a fate worse than the death of eating houses. The days of self-selection as we know it now would be over. Or would they? According to a flyer I read recently concerning sororities on campus and how they would work at Davidson, rush would be “self-selection only without a computer.” Let me repeat that: Rush would be self-selection without a computer. Just who are they trying to kid? Rush is the process by which sororities get to pick who gets to join and who doesn’t. This is most certainly not self-selection. The system of mutual selection that sorority supporters are proposing has been implemented in many colleges throughout the United States, but it is not without flaws.

Though all freshmen who rush are guaranteed a bid from a sorority, it may not be the sorority of their choice. Last fall, various freshmen at the University of Georgia experienced what is generally known there as a “mismatch,” when a freshman receives a bid from a sorority she doesn’t want to join because she has been excluded (yes, the word is excluded) from the sorority of her choice. I know this happened because one of those girls is a friend who later told me her first semester in college was nothing like what she thought or hoped it would be. This can and will happen at Davidson. Just look at our fraternities. Though rare, exclusion does occur. The current system of self-selection allows any woman to join any house. If a woman cannot join her first choice eating house, the lottery and the current number of members in the house are the reason, and she has the option of waiting a year or joining her second choice and switching at the end of the semester. With sororities, it is not that simple. Exclusion is personal. Though supporters claim none of the horror stories we hear about sororities on other campuses would happen here, there is no guarantee they would not. Self-selection may not be perfect, but it comes much closer to perfection than rush/pledging does.

What about being equal? Maybe we should have sororities, for equality’s sake. Again, I beg to differ. I consider myself a strong feminist, and I am all for equality which, in my humble opinion, lies in freedom of choice. In choosing to come to Davidson, I implicitly chose not to join a sorority. When Davidson first opened its doors to women, the female students were given the option of having sororities. Interestingly enough, the proposal was turned down and Rusk house was born. Presently, the same choice is before us: to have or not to have sororities. Choosing not to join sororities does not make us unequal to the men because they can join fraternities; having the choice makes us equal, not having sororities.

If the argument of inequality lies in the number (three eating houses versus seven fraternities), I’m all for more eating houses. This would cut down in the number of members in each house and take care of the final argument sorority supporters have: eating houses are too big. The problem here is that women at Davidson seem to like big houses. Rusk, with around 200 members, could be split up, but most Ruskies would not stand for this. Personally, I love being in a small house because I’ve gotten to know every member. Either way, opportunities to build closer friendships are plentiful here. We don't need to sacrifice the self-selection system or our eating houses for something that will not.bring us any advantages we do not already have. On a side note, if I need sorority membership to get a job, what difference does it make where I go to college?

Sororities and the status quo

Most everyone has heard one way or another the story about the New England yokel, who, when asked the location of a nearby town, ponders the possible routes for a long minute or two, then answers definitively, “You can’t get there from here.” I think without hyperbole? Ever since I came to Davidson more than a decade ago, I have heard students complain that self-selection is a farce and a joke. Not everyone feels this way or views it as a serious problem, but many do. Do we want to add a frosting of sororities to the Patterson Court layer cake as it is now?

Sometimes, Davidson is a place that tells itself it “can’t get there from here.” We don’t experiment as much as we should. We don’t shake off the old until it has burdened us unnecessarily for a long while. We go co-ed late in the game, not early. The same for integration. We agree to reduce our commitment to financial aid rather than daring to find ways to maintain it. We on the faculty and staff collaborate in the slow undoing of our children’s tuition benefits rather than demanding new and more prescient ways to maintain them. Finally, we tout the joys of self-selection long after its original purposes have been undermined and the system itself discredited.

Before we step back into the halcyon days of the 1950s and invite sororities to campus, let’s take a good look at self-selection and see if the system into which sororities would fit can be fixed at all. If it can’t, why don’t we abandon it? If we won’t abandon it, why don’t we at least describe it honestly and contradictory principles of free choice and exclusivity are merged here in a way that necessarily invites the charge of hypocrisy, and such a system cannot be sustained forever.

There have been calls this year to stop the lying about self-selection, and I agree that it is time to end the advertising that invariably leads to disillusionment among many new students arriving on campus to find out things aren't exactly as they were told. Why should we as an institution choose to prime our prospective students for disappointment and cynicism? It makes no sense.

Can we go a step further and devise something new? I would like to think so. I would also like to think that the argument for sororities can be given a good, objective once-over by thoughtful persons at Davidson. Are women really at such a social disadvantage at Davidson that we must turn to the likes of Tri Delta and Zeta Tau Alpha to provide the answer? It is hard to muster up profound sympathy for the putative victims of an injustice such as the alleged absence of institutionalized “bonding” opportunities provided by sororities. In any case, women have never called en masse for the establishment of these bastions of the socio-economic status quo. Extending the “Greek system” to include sororities at Davidson may be fair, however, since the option does not now exist for women students. Nonetheless, sorority colonization of Davidson strikes me as a symbolic step backward, not forward.

If we cannot bring ourselves to try something new, but must cling to the status quo, even adding another stratum to it in the form of sororities, then let’s at least, for the sake of frankness, abandon the rhetoric associated with the old system. There are many aspects of Davidson College that show great integrity — let us emphasize those and be honest about our institutional imperfections. Perhaps the debate about sororities will lead not to something old, but to something new and progressive and innovative at Davidson. This is our chance to stop telling ourselves we “can’t get there from here.” With new thinking, perhaps the folks at Davidson can construct a student social life that is appropriate to the 21st century, not to the last century or the one before that. If we seek originality rather than the status quo, then a new vision could become a reality.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Tuesday during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Union (704) 892-2148. Editorial Bias of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $40.00 per dose. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Keep Davidson “special”

To the Editor:

I am upset to hear that sororities may come to Davidson. As a freshman, I have been here for only two months and on the Court for even less time. From what I’ve seen, I love Davidson — the way it is now. I chose Davidson partially because of the absence of sororities. I do not want the superficiality and other petty attitudes that my friends at other schools face. Part of what makes Davidson special is its relaxed atmosphere, which is incompatible with sororities.

While the seniors who want sororities will not have to face the consequences of their actions, the freshmen and the women coming behind us will. Although I recognize the advantages of sororities at other schools, I do not see what function they will have here. If they cannot have houses or serve meals or alcohol, what is their purpose? What can they offer, other than national connections, that the eating houses do not? The connections from sororities are not worth their disadvantages. Aren’t the connections from Davidson enough?

I have not been here very long, but I am certain that I do not want sororities. Other first-year women share my sentiments. Why mess up what’s good?

Carrie Arthur
Class of 2001

Have an opinion? Write it down. Call David (x6731) or Kristen (x6640). Think you could make this page look any better? Call Randy (x6667).