8. THE DAVIDSONIAN ELSEWHERE MONDAY, APRIL 7, 1997

FCC orders TV to go digital

Calling it the biggest change in television since “color,” the federal government ordered more than 1,500 of the nation’s television
stations to switch from their current analog signals to digital signals by the year 2006. The new signals are supposed
to deliver crystal clear, movie-quality pictures and sound to any home that owns a digital television set. So, yes, it
means that people will have to get new TVs or fix their old ones with a $100 converter. Still, the
new signals will be broadcast along with the analog signals until 2006, so viewers will have a period to change
to the new sets.

The initial sets will be in stores by 1998 and will probably cost around $5,000. By then, the biggest 10
metropolitan areas will have been required or have volunteered to make the switch. Each station would be able to offer
6 channels of programming with digital signals instead of the one they can only give now, so even people who
do not subscribe to cable will have 20-36 channels.

While the changes do look as if broadcasters are being forced to make unwanted changes, it is not entirely bad
for any of them. They will now have a more lenient use of the public broadcast spectrum and will be
freed of many other government regulations on their activities regarding content and payment fees. Cable television and satellite companies, who
will be most hurt by the plan, are calling it the biggest “federal giveaway ever” since the stations will be
receiving $70 billion worth of free channels.

As the new televisions grow in popularity, their cost is expected to go down to $2,000. The changes also mean
most people will have to go back to putting antennas on their televisions, however, since most cable systems across the
country are not equipped to transmit digital signals.

— Charlotte Observer, USA TODAY

Immigration law goes into effect, officials fear ability to enforce

After a legal delay of four days, the new immigration law passed in the last Congress went into effect last
Saturday. However, given the first setback, Justice Department officials fear they will not be able to adequately enforce it given
continued legal challenges the law has received from the American Civil Liberties Union and immigrant rights groups.

The law aims to stem the tide of 400,000 illegal immigrants who enter the country each year. An estimated 5,000,000
illegal immigrants live in the U.S. right now. The law states that illegal aliens must apply for political asylum within
one year of entering the United States, that tougher “hardship” requirements should be made for immigrants who seek a green
card on that basis, that class action suits against the Immigration and Naturalization Service be harder to charge, and that
if someone lives in the country for six months or more illegally, they will be barred from reentry for three
years.

The opposing groups feel the laws are too strict. The ACLU fears that one year will not be enough to
legally prove that political asylum is needed. The law is intended to stop those who call for it who get
caught illegally living in the U.S. Immigrant groups also fear that new hardship requirements will be impossible to meet and
that it will leave an “open door” for the government to deport whomever they wish regardless of the need. Recently,
immigrants’ lawyers have been able to use the existing law to allow a Nicaraguan to stay in the U.S. because
of his love for baseball. The bar on class action lawsuits makes the opposing groups fear the government will be
able to turn away thousands of immigrants at once instead of reviewing each case personally.

The Justice Department cites the growing numbers of illegal aliens entering the country each year and the fact that the
existing law does not allow them to stem that tide as proof the new laws are needed.

— Washington Post, New York TimesHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

ee itt . i\ ASSAY a AK At | Ah GORE'S ON THE LINE... FOR A $50,000 DONATION, HE'LL TALK
TO YOU FOR A HALF HOUR... FOR $100,000 HE WON'T... deny.

International

Kohl to run for a fifth term

Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany said he would run for an unprecedented fifth four-year term in elections next year. Kohl
is a strong supporter of the European Union and has had to oversee government cutbacks that allow Germany to reach
goals to join that organization. Kohl is 67 years old. He is already the country’s longest-serving postwar Chancellor. If elected,
he will be the country’s most durable leader since Bismarck, who unified Germany in 1871 and governed for more than
19 years. However, unemployment is high and Kohl’s Christian Democratic party is behind in the polls.

Zaire rebels reject offer to stop uprising

The new Prime Minister of Zaire, Etienne Tshisekedi, asked for rebels under the command of Laurent Kabila to put down
their arms and to stop fighting against the dictatorial government. In exchange, he promised them six to 24 seats in
his cabinet. The rebels did not want the offer and insisted President Mobutu Sese Seko surrender power.

National

Fusion reactor shutting down soon

The fusion test reactor at the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory reached the end of 15 years of work intended to
produce power by the fusion of hydrogen, the process that powers the sun. The reactor’s demise because of a cut
in Federal spending threatened hopes for generating clean and inexhaustible energy from the process of fusion.

Cult partied before leaving

Detailed financial records kept by the “Heaven’s Gate” cult showed that a total of $12,183.15 was spent before they decided
to catch a spaceship to the “next level.” They gambled in Las Vegas, saw a movie, and dined on a
pizza feast before killing themselves. The rest of the cult members’ possessions will be auctioned or disposed of in the
following weeks.

Gingrich sets it straight with China

Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich, on his tour to Asia the past week, received praise from House Democrats for
his diplomatic statements to China and Taiwan. Gingrich said that the United States would defend Taiwan against a military attack
by China, but supports China’s claim to the island as long as reunification is peaceful. He also told Taiwanese leaders
that military aid would not be forthcoming if Taiwan provoked China.

New York Times, USA Today

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Voting coalition
5 Zsa Zsa
10 Med. sch. subject
14 Italian currency
15 Theatrical presentation
16 Bright star
17 Steady
18 Wilder and Siskel
19 Clip
20 Distributes
22 Fold
24 Court dividers
25 Ache
26 Armada
28 Army rank
31 — Farrow
32 Happen again
34 Bird's weapon
36 Singing voice
38 Grades
40 Roof overhang
41 Noblemen
43 Takes a break
45 Golfer’s gadget
46 Coach
48 Change
50 Pluto or auto
51 Elm or oak
52 Stately dance
55 Treacherous
60 Dwelling
62 Faction
63 — trap for
64 Ire
65 Ireland
66 European river
67 Pries
68 Germ

DOWN
1 Extorted money
2 Exist
3 Hershiser of baseball
4 Dog —
5 Ambitious one
6 Mimes
7 Vereen and Franklin
8 Native metal
9 Scamp
10 Feelers
11 Asta's mistress
12 Rara —
21 Swerve
23 Melee
25 Skin openings
26 Meat cut
27 Afterward
28 Prettier
29 Gladden
30 Romeo, e.g.
31 Atlas item
37 Prophetic
39 Beginners
42 Father
44 Killed
47 Patriot, — Hale
49 Ann
51 “We're off — the Wizard...”
52 Feel the loss of
53 Thought
54 Part of n.b.
55 Embraces
56 Grow weary
57 McClurg of TV
58 Split
61 Yoko —

© 1997 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All rights reserved.
