6 THE DAVIDSONIAN P-ED TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1997

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editors
JESSICA GOODSON
KRISTEN BARTCH

Opinions Editors
WESLEY GOLDSBERRY
SARAH OGDEN

Arts & Living Editors
DAVID SANTSCHI
CARRIE MORRIS

Layout Editor
RANDY SKATTUM

Sports Editor
JAY CANTRELL

Web Page Manager
HENDI FINK

Photo Editor
ANNA JUDY

Advertising Managers
SCOTT REEDER
CHLOE BROOKE

Business Manager
MICHELLE BOUGDANOS

Copy Editors
DAVID JOHNSTON

Circulation Managers
WHITNEY BLAKE
CHLOE BROOKE
ANNA ERIKSSON

McNEIL CARSWELL

Editor in Chief
MICHAEL J. KRUSE

Associate Editor
NARESH NAGELLA

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

Quality or quantity?

Like any nationally-ranked liberal arts school should, Davidson emphasizes a broad-based education — both in and out of classroom doors
— choosing to focus on a little of this and a little of that. This science and that English, this
math and that history, this community service and that literary magazine — all in an effort to mold us, its
students, into well-rounded human beings ready to tackle something more specific after graduation. In short, through this aim, the College
virtually offers something for everyone.

At times, however, this ideal might spread Davidson's talent base — a mere 1,600 and some odd students — too
thin. The College supports several dozen community service organizations, but many have trouble recruiting — and then retaining — sufficient
man- and brainpower. The athletic department funds 21 Division I sports, more than many state schools with student populations 10,
20, even 30 times greater than that of Davidson. Such an accomplishment is certainly admirable, perhaps unbelievable, but a fair
number of those teams — even a majority — have substantial trouble winning with any consistency at the highest level
of intercollegiate competition.

And only a few weeks after the Ryan Gist trial attracted nearly a third of the students on this campus
to the 900 Room, less than 30 people chose to come to the same venue for the Honor Code forum
shortly before fall break. Speeches, discussions, and forums almost always have trouble attracting enough students to make it worth the
speaker's or panel’s time. At one particular talk two years ago, I was the one and only student present.

Whatever the reason, maybe an inherent desire or even an obsessive compulsion to pad our transcripts and stuff our resumes,
we spread ourselves too thin here in Davidson's often cut-throat academic and extracurricular environments. After all, 11 activities are better
than five, right? Not always.

Which brings me to the issue of sororities. Why do we need them at Davidson? Especially if they would arrive
under the system that is currently being proposed — a half-hearted, slipshod, in-name-only outline of sisterhood. Sororities at Davidson, at
least in their infancy, would essentially be nothing more than clubs with corresponding Greek letters and national affiliations. If the
argument is that eating houses have too many members and are therefore unable to provide the close kinship that fraternities
and sororities offer, then create some more eating houses. If the argument is equality — that males have fraternities and
females have only eating houses, devoid of national ritual and history — then eliminate eating houses and replace them with
sororities.

Whatever is done, one thing is for sure: the College should not adopt sororities simply for the sake of adding
another extracurricular option, another social outlet. Consider quality over quantity. Eating houses and sororities cannot and ultimately will not coexist
on this campus. That said, pick one — either eating houses or sororities, but not both — and do it
well.

THE ESSAY THAT CROPS EXPECTED TO STIR UP NO GREAT A PERFECT STORM USING FIVE IDEAS FROM THE READINGS SECTION

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Giving students a chance to change the Humanities program

To the Editor:

As students may or may not know, Davidson College programs and departments undergo regular external evaluations. Last spring, the Humanities
program embarked on this process, and as a result, the Educational Policy Committee (EPC), comprised of the faculty members, student
representatives, and the Dean of the Faculty, isLooking at possible revisions to the program. As a part of this process,
the EPC is soliciting faculty and student opinions. Students will have a wonderful opportunity to get involved in an important
matter of curriculum review and to suggest changes. The college is extremely interested in student opinion and feels it is
crucial that students have a voice in this matter. Through the process of reviewing the Humanities program, several broader issues
have already emerged with possible implications for the program's revision. Does the Humanities program meet well the core requirements it
intends to fill? Do Davidson's core requirements teach the writing skills and give the liberal arts diversity and the critical
thinking skills that it intends?

Based on these issues and others revealed by the outside evaluators last March, the present review process of the Humanities
program has been divided into three subcommittees:

*Humanities: Chaired by Dr. Nina Serebrennikov, this committee is charged with addressing the existing Humanities program and any modifications that
should be made to it. Possible modifications could include anything from the number of times the course meets to its
content.

*English Composition: Chaired by Dr. Cynthia Lewis, this committee is responsible for examining the standards and expectations of the composition
requirement.

*First-Year Seminars: Chaired by Dr. Karl Plank, this committee is exploring the possibilities of other first-year seminars in the Humanities.
Questions this committee is addressing range from whether interdisciplinary seminars might replace the Humanities program to what role additional seminars
might play in Humanities.

The solutions and answers to these questions have direct ramifications for how and what we, as students, are taught. We
are encouraging any students with thoughtful comments involving the Humanities program, or any of the issues being addressed by the
subcommittees, to express their views in written form or by contacting the appropriate subcommittee chair. Any written responses may be
forwarded directly to the appropriate subcommittee chair, sent to the SGA Council on Academic Affairs, or given to the student
Educational Policy Committee representatives, Nathan Ohler and Sara Straus. All responses should be completed within the next few weeks. Please
take this opportunity to share your thoughts with the faculty on this important issue.

Sara Straus and Nathan Ohler
Class of 1998
Committee Representatives
Council on Academic Affairs
Student Educational Policy

An Alumnus Questions the Gist Trial

To the Editor:

I am an alumnus of Davidson College. I have lived in the area since my graduation and regularly follow happenings
about campus. Initially, I was amused at the Ryan Gist controversy because Gist's actions were so trivial. However, the more
I have read and heard about the alleged incident, the more irritated I have become. Perhaps the thirteen years living
in the “real” world following graduation have softened my brain somewhat. I feel that I must be missing something. I
simply cannot understand how Gist violated the Code of Responsibility.

First of all, no crime was committed. The Davidson police appear to be content. The Post Office apparently does not
consider itself a victim of a crime. Gist stole nothing. The only people that appear offended are a portion of
the Davidson administration. The only thing Gist is guilty of is perhaps the overenthusiastic enforcement of a fairly obscure federal
statute. In retrospect, he probably should have spoken with the Postmaster the following day and informed him or her of
the law. However, I am very impressed with the enthusiasm Gist displayed, which is admirable given the apathy which pervades
much of the Davidson student body. The college is guilty of displaying a lack of common sense. From the outside
looking in, the Davidson administration comes off looking pretty damn silly. The prosecution of Gist’s act was more disruptive than
the act itself. Case thankfully closed.

Bill Cobb
Class of 1984
Davidson

To submit letters to the editor:

Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Friday at 6 p.m. Or
e-mail any submissions to editor in chief Michael Kruse at mikruse@davidson.edu. Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk,
preferably in WordPerfect. Keep all submissions under 400 words. The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions
as space requirements mandate.
