_THE DAVIDSONIAN_

‘Stick’em up! Watch out for this man. Last week, he robbed the new BB&T Bank on Main Street. Unmasked and pretending to wield a weapon, he was later apprehended at his residence. No one was hurt during the transaction that occurred. He is currently a suspect in the criminal investigation surrounding this incident.

New fire truck creates need for towing
By Jessica GoopsoN
News Editor

Ray Thrower, Director of Public Safety and Police, is issuing a warning to Davidson staff and students: as of this Friday, any car found parked in fire lanes will be towed without exception. In the past, campus police have issued $50 citations but have not towed cars from the fire lanes unless it was absolutely necessary. Beginning Friday, police will crack down on fire lane intruders. Vehicles in violation will be towed at the owner’s expense. To be fair, however, a $0 written citation will be issued so that car owners do not have to pay the $50 fee of the past in addition to towing expenses, which can total $45-$50, depending on what time of day the vehicle is towed. Cars will be towed to the impound yard at Archer’s Wrecker on South Main Street, which is within walking distance of campus.

The reason for the more stringent regulation is a new ladder truck, recently added to the fire department’s fleet, over 40 feet in length with ladders capable of 105-foot extension. The newly acquired ladder truck will better cover fire emergencies and evacuations. Due to the sheer size of the truck, campus police are now required by law to maintain unoccupied fire lanes. The fire department attempted to drive the new truck onto campus Friday, but cars blocking the fire lanes made maneuvering impossible. Thrower said the cars on Friday were not necessarily attributable to Parents’ Weekend. “We've been monitoring the fire lanes in the past two or three weeks and have found a consistent problem with parked cars in the lanes,” he said. “The fire department has also complained in the past.”

As of now, the ladder truck is not 100 percent effective in servicing Belk, Watts, and Richardson dorms. To accommodate the truck, five to six parking spaces will be eliminated in Belk parking lot and the faculty will lose one space in Cunningham. “I wasn’t going to just start towing vehicles,” Thrower said. “I wanted to educate the community and let everyone know this was happening to be fair.”

Gebhart, Howard, Lukey and Palmer chosen as finalists
Watson from page 1

academics before heading to graduate school where he plans to study entomology. He added that he chose the topic of army ant colonies because much of the research he has done here at Davidson for his biology classes has dealt with ants.

The third finalist is Ben Lukey, a senior from Okemos, Mich. His project, “The Audition of a Lifetime,” will send him to the former Soviet Union and other places nearby, where he will study theater and audition for parts. Lukey will start in Omsk, Siberia, where he will spend at least three months, and perhaps will audition for a production in that area. He said that if he gets a part in a play, he will stay there for the duration of his performances (which could last as long as six months), but if not, he will stay about three months. Next, Lukey plans to head to Tashkent, Uzbekistan, where he will study acting in a more internationally-inclined studio. The studio, which caters primarily to training actors in the black box tradition, is located in Central Asia, where many different ethnic and cultural groups live. Lukey added, however, that all of the classes at the studio are taught in Russian. If time permits, Lukey would also like to travel to Odessa, in the Ukraine. If not, he will then head straight to Moscow for the last part of his venture. There, he plans to “explore the possibilities,” and look into joining an acting troupe. He concluded by saying that whichever opportunities come his way will determine where he goes and when.

Katherine Palmer, a senior from Salisbury, N.C., is the fourth Watson Fellowship finalist, but she was not available for questioning. Her project is entitled “Oh! What a Tangled Web We Weave.” The four finalists will not know until next spring whether or not they have been granted the award.

The results are practically in, and the future does not look too bright for students who wish to see more minors at Davidson. Right now, Davidson’s minors are limited to the following departments: Anthropology/Sociology, Chemistry, Economics, French, Music, Philosophy, Spanish, Theatre/Speech, Religion, German, and Russian. For the most part, they consist of five classes at varying levels.difficulty levels. But the total number of minors offered represents only ten of some 22 academic departments, which means Davidson can only offer about half of its possible minors. And, many students feel disappointed since they are not able to minor in any department of their choosing. In response, the Student Government Association has launched a committee to investigate the proposal of universal minors, as seen at other liberal arts colleges and universities. The Davidsonian’s research so far signals that a number of realistic and questionable obstacles exist to Davidson’s offering a complete choice of minors to students. Many departments just don’t have the staff or resources to accommodate the influx of students that minors will create in their upper-level classes. This problem occurs with the most popular majors — the English, History, Biology, Psychology, and Political Science departments. Offering minors in these areas will mean hiring new professors, an objective that will be difficult to see through given Davidson’s tight budget and difficulties compensating the current faculty at extremely competitive rates.

Even if faculty resources are expanded, these departments will have to wrestle with questions about which courses students have to take and what courses would adequately suffice to award a student a minor. While these questions are faced by departments at every college, Davidson has not had minors for most of its existence and they are not all that common at other liberal arts colleges, making it difficult to work from precedent or accepted standards. However, the sooner departments are able to offer minors, the sooner these questions can be answered.

The last two departments who just had their minors approved probably represent the “ideal” department that can offer minors. The religion department currently has 10 professors and fewer majors than that in the senior class — compared to over 50 majors in each of the four most popular departments. The department is a sort of double core requirement, but many of the upper-level classes are not completely filled and more seminars could be offered each semester. The German/Russian/Japanese department also has five on-campus professors for about five senior class majors and offers minors in both Russian and German and is planning to add one in Japanese.

A quick survey of all other departments that do not offer minors indicates no other similar situations. It looks as if the current offerings of minors could represent Davidson’s limit.

This current scenario exists around a vote by a divided faculty that allowed minors in the first place. Originally, the Council on Academic Affairs brought before the faculty a proposal mandating minors in all departments. It failed on a vote, 80 percent to 20 percent. To at least offer some departments the chance to offer minors, the Council changed the proposal to allow for minors to be offered voluntarily by any department. This proposal passed on another vote, 55 percent to 45 percent. Accordingly, the whole process has resulted in the current minors situation.

Students really should not worry about the rigidity or lack of freedom in the curriculum choices, though. Davidson has five concentrations and is always ready to add more, should interest exist. The Center for Interdisciplinary Studies virtually makes the sky the limit for students who desire to pursue alternative paths of study. And, most departments that could offer minors probably do.

In the future, the whole situation might change for the worse, though. Some departments that experience a drop in majors due to minors could easily eliminate their minors program. Students who cannot take minors in departments that do not offer, but could, would best be served by organizing themselves into a group and petitioning the department in question directly. The SGA has no power to enforce universal minors, for any such change is ultimately a faculty decision. Until faculty resources significantly increase, the minors situation looks as if it will stay rather constant.

ATTENTION: STUDENTS & FACULTY

Visit our stores in one of the following areas for holiday employment opportunities:
* Virginia
* New Jersey
* Washington DC
* North Carolina
* Maryland
* Delaware
* Pennsylvania

Hecht’s and Strawbridge’s have the perfect opportunity for you while you’re home for the holidays!

On-the-spot Interviews!
* Full-time, Part-time Day, and Part-time Evening Schedules Available
* Seasonal Sales Support

As a seasonal employee at Hecht’s, you'll go back to school with your pockets full of extra cash! Visit us now, or apply during your Thanksgiving break and start working as soon as you would like, or when your winter holiday begins.

Competitive pay
* Generous merchandise discounts
* Pre-planned schedules

Positions vary by location.