6 THE DAVIDSONIAN ELSEWHERE MONDAY, APRIL 14, 1997

Proposition 209 to be upheld

A federal appeals court panel, siding with opponents of affirmative action, upheld California’s voter-approved ban on preferences based on gender and race last week. The decision overturned a lower court’s ruling of the law as being unconstitutional.

The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, a three-judge panel, declared there was “no doubt” the law was constitutional. The initiative was passed last December by 54% of California’s voters. It bars preferential treatment in public hiring, contracting, and education.

The new decision is set to take effect in three weeks, but affirmative action supporters plan to ask it be delayed while an appeal is being processed. President Clinton did not support Proposition 209 and stated that if states are precluded from taking special measures to help disadvantaged people, “I think it will be a mistake.” He says, “I think we’ll all have to regroup and find new ways to achieve the same objective.”

The judges emphasized that the equal protection clause in the 14th Amendment was intended to end government discrimination based on race. They said it would be paradoxical if California voters had violated the clause by requiring all people to be treated equally and barring any preference based on race or sex. “After all,” the ruling said, “the goal of the 14th Amendment, to which the nation continues to aspire, is a political system in which race no longer matters.”

ACLU Legal Director Mark Rosenbaum called the decision a “grave disappointment,” saying it is “obviously and dramatically incompatible with decades of mainstream Supreme Court decisions guaranteeing women and minorities equal participation in the political process.”

The new decision is likely to help anti-affirmative action campaigns in other states. Washington, Florida, Arizona, Colorado, Ohio, and Michigan all have started or are ready to put similar amendments on their ballots.

California governor Pete Wilson (R) said the appeals court had “flatly rejected the Orwellian reasoning that says a ban on discrimination is an act of discrimination.” California state universities will have to start reassessing their policies of admission soon, however. The governor has indicated higher education as a specific area that needs to be corrected soon.

Most legal analysts believe that this case will not stop until it reaches the Supreme Court. The first judge who blocked implementation of the law was appointed by President Jimmy Carter. The three judges who said it should stand were appointed by Presidents Reagan and Bush.

Both sides of the issue are passionate, wealthy, and organized. They spent millions in an advertising war during last year’s elections. Garret Epps, a University of Oregon law professor says, “We will soon find out where the Supreme Court stands on this whole issue, whether the equal protection clause will be read to some color-blind commandment.”

—Washington Post

Today is Steve Martin’s birthday. Be a jerk and buy a Davidsonian t-shirt. Only $10, you dirty rotten scoundrel.ro > = Che DOaurdsontan Beyond Davidson 4 j sunday tp) / / International ...

Opposing sides talk, fight in Zaire

The opposing sides of the six-month civil war in Zaire talked in South Africa last week to discuss how to end the rebel uprising that has threatened to topple the one-party state of President Mobutu. The two sides did not agree to a cease-fire but issued a communique that would have to be negotiated before any settlement could be reached. They also indicated that severe problems in the governmental structures would need to be addressed. Both sides agree that Zaire’s territorial sovereignty should be kept intact. But, both sides have set up different capitals. The rebels are in Goma and the government is in Kinshasa, effectively dividing the country.

3 Palestinians killed in Hebron

Another round of ferocious clashes broke out in the West Bank last week, leaving three Palestinians dead and adding to growing evidence that a violent uprising has resumed alongside the deadlocked Israeli-Palestinian peace talks. Israeli soldiers fired some of the shots once a Jewish settler started throwing rocks after he said a Palestinian had attacked him. Political contact grows less and less between the sides as the optimism from the 1993 Oslo accords wanes. Many are calling on increased American and international pressure to get the peace talks moving again.

National ...

I.R.S. thought to lose billions each year

As the tax deadline looms closer and closer, many independent analysts believe the Internal Revenue Service loses up to $200 billion each year. Some blame the inefficiency of the bureaucracy, which has yet to update most of its computers. Others say it is due to a complex and long 9,000-page tax code that should be simplified and rid of loopholes.

Helms allows CW treaty to move closer to ratification

Senator Jesse Helms (R-N.C.) has moved to allow U.S. ratification of an international treaty that would ban chemical weapons. He still thinks, “It is not global, it is not verifiable, it is not constitutional, and it will not work.” But, he is bowing to pressure from international organizations and within his own party to at least let the ban have a try. Supporters of the bill say the U.S. could easily manufacture chemical weapons quickly if needed, and that the treaty would decrease the amounts made in times of peace and reduce the environmental risks of having the chemicals stored in warehouses.

—New York Times, Washington Post—

THE Crossword

ACROSS
88
$§
if
#
i
ANSWERS
E
if
<jzio
at
|O
|Z
Zin
i
5
S900
o|s
io|o
i
ao
|x|<|njo|>
a|>
as
ce
LJ
Pie)
Oo
Bog0md
990
opoge
<|o|>
OOH
Oooo
i
-
;
OBO
Citta
je
i<j
|e
xri</ziog|e
iG
jOjO
jn”
CEFRIEICICI
a
te
iio
iH
ajololo
ofa
|—|-
if
;
Z
é
i
:
é
+|Ol>
aj=
julio
;
Ld
2iu
i
|
ojair-
OOS
<n
joi
Hie
S2R2ESBENRRB
Lanse
ie
i
i
‘one
47 Store, for short
51 Concerning
48 Malarial
ate
i
E
3
6
Dangles