THE DAVIDSONIAN P-ED TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1997

Crew team experience teaches this freshman the value of unity

For many years, I thought I would never be capable of uttering this phrase, for belonging to a team, or group, or even a loosely established partnership meant being subjected to the weaknesses and deficiencies of those within the team. I’m not sure when this thought process evolved. Perhaps it was those first few years of elementary school when all the teachers were convinced one or two “good” students could pull together a group of “average” students. And what that teacher never knew was that the “good” students simply did all the work themselves in an effort to save the group’s grades. And then there was middle school and high school, with all those group projects we had to do out of class, and the teachers just knew there would be no problem for everyone to meet after school (since we could drive and everything).

I am a member of a team. And I like it. 

And of course there were my three years with the high school swim team still in the growing phase. We were so desperate for swimmers that over half the team couldn’t even swim the length of the pool, but no one complained — out loud at least. Since arriving on campus a very short six weeks ago, I’ve defined team in a new light. In one phrase: Davidson club crew. For any freshmen (or upperclassmen) who were previously unaware, there is, in fact, a crew team on this campus. You may have seen us in the early hours of the morning in front of Richardson Dorm meeting for a 5:30 a.m. practice on the lake. Or you may have heard us howling across campus for a Wednesday morning 6:30 a.m. team conditioning practice. Or you may have seen us in the Union some Sunday night meeting to discuss upcoming regattas.

We're a part of that group on campus who experienced leader trying to pull all of us novices off our butts. And I’ve found support and words of encouragement, plus a whole lot of laughs, in my boat of guys: David, Potter, Derrick, and Matthew. They’re the only people I know who let me yell at them five mornings a week, tell them they’re slackers, and then invite me over for dinner or a game of “Diplomacy.” It’s incredible. And I see over 20 new freshmen, students just like me, who are willing to commit their time and efforts to learning and developing a brand new sport. Until the first practice, you see, I had never been in a boat before, and neither had many of them. So to all my compatriots on the crew team, I say thanks.

Before I finish, allow me to make a final addendum. It has been my privilege over the past six weeks to observe team unity and strength in many places — not just crew. I’ve seen excitement and energy from the Bonner Class of 2001, resounding victory from the football team, stamina and consistency from the volleyball team, unity from the swim team, commitment from the soccer teams, strength and determination from the cross country team, and success from the efforts of many organizations: Project Life, the Student Union, SGA — the examples are endless. So I say thank you to you, Davidson students, for renewing my belief in the team concept. And to Matthew Hobbie, my fellow journalist, I say if you are searching for student unity, look no further than your own back door.

Man’s search for meaning

Recently I encountered a rather curious fellow on one of my frequent walks with the new addition to my off-campus home — Santana, my dog. Although the hoped-for benefits of such excursions are to encourage Santana to relieve himself somewhere other than my bedroom, I have come to enjoy the time spent alone. Most often, I walk in silent observation. Either Santana has not learned to carry on a coherent conversation, or I have not learned to listen closely enough. In any case, I occasionally encounter a noisy human or two. Usually, the conversation is innocuous and canine-centered. On this particular walk, however, the discussion took a sharp and decided turn. Noticing my long locks and free air, the curious gentleman began to proselytize about his faith. Truth be told, I listened a bit to this surreptitious faiths’ and succeed only in reducing themselves to the sub-human. The reason this fellow, and other have-faiths like him, must witness to the lack-faiths is that their existence is being undermined. Envy of the lack-faiths ability to live “without appeal” is secondary to the erosion of their faith.serpentine fellow, but indifference soon led me back to the path and my journey—far from temptation. However, at some point in all of our lives, we are tempted by the faithful who wish to aid us in our quest for meaning in life. The results may not be in just yet, but it seems the “have-faiths” fare no better than the “lack-faiths” in the religion of morality that results from contact with those who exist in a state of contentment and lucidity without belief in a higher order. Only a homogeneous world, devoid of all counterpoints, will vindicate their lives. It is impossible for the have-faith man to live his life in opposition. Ignoring the physical impossibilities of the phenomenon of life after death, the problem with this scenario is that in a world in which only one existence is certain (the present one), the cost to the have-faith man for being wrong is irretrievable. Death is an unforgiving creature and I, for one, am unwilling to delay living at the command of some very sketchy men who, in the comfort of their pulpits and rent-free homes, spew rhetoric about giving one’s life to God. The construct of religion is human as is every other social and cultural phenomenon. We have built a machine based on fear that feeds on itself and the weakness and depravity of its subjects. I cannot say that this world has no meaning, despite his assurance that transcends it, that his life has meaning. Live this life. Because there might not be another one. This world certainly has meaning, even without the existence of a creator-figure. His very existence is mired in the sticky fact that he lives at the expense of others and, consequently, he is reduced to less than what he is capable of—essentially becoming sub-human. For this man, life begins after the burial ceremonies commence because his God gives his life meaning in the “next” life or existence. We understand in human terms, and that is where meaning for our lives must originate. Our life experiences provide us with the basis for exploration and understanding that we must use to search for meaning. This path is no safer or more secure, but the fruit is real, and knowledge is not held captive. 

“You just have to know how to play the Game,” my father tells me as we have our bi-monthly chat. What is the Game? Who makes the rules? Why do I always feel like I am losing? I have thought about these questions quite a bit since that phone call a few weeks ago. I don’t have any conclusive answers, but I do have a feeling that many students here are playing the Game and losing. 

The Game: a losing battle. Keeping up in the rat race. Now we can no longer blame others for pressuring us to enter the Race. College is the first time when we are forced to take responsibility for our own well-being. Sure, most of us are financially dependent upon our parents, and we still watch sitcoms, rent movies, and read magazines. But we are mature enough to start realizing that the Race for the Unattainable is the most stupid thing on which we spend our time. In running this Race, our energy is depleted, and our identity seeps out from our pores with the blood, sweat, and tears it takes to run. So the rule of the Game is that you have to incessantly attempt to live up to the ideal that society sets. And the cost for playing is your identity. As I read last week’s Davidsonian articles about masochism, the right to complain about our lives and making them appear worse than they are, and the implications that our near-insane “Living to build up our resumes is not living.” While we were growing up, we were told that we could be better than we were. Maybe we heard this from our parents, and we certainly internalized this “quest for the best” from the message that the media sends out. As we entered high school, we were threatened by the lack of college admittance letters and scholarship opportunities if we didn’t participate in the Race for the Unattainable. 

Living to build up our resumes is not living. Our value as human beings is not equal to our marketability after college. If we choose to use the metaphor of the Game to describe our lives, we at least owe it to ourselves to make our own rules. 

- Alenda Lux

Thor was Rick, Wey! Thor's dorm explained the appearance as Rick but nodded. Me know Green Veshek.