DAVIDSONIAN _ SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1997 15

Kirsch tops scoring mark

By Aaron DUNHAM
Staff Writer

CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. - Senior Carolyn Kirsch has led the women’s basketball team all season. Monday night against UT-Chattanooga, she set
her fifth and most meaningful school record, becoming the all-time leading scorer. She set the mark on a putback with
11:47 to go in the first half of her 23-point performance. Kirsch now has 1,355 career points and also holds
records in rebounding, steals, free throws, and field goals attempted. And after Saturday’s game against Marshall, she is just 15
field goals off that record.

“It’s getting closer to the wire,” said Kirsch. “I just want to leave on a good note.”

Pacing the conference

With Kirsch leading the way, several Davidson players stand atop the conference in different statistical categories. Kirsch leads the conference
in scoring with a 16.1 average and is fourth in rebounding at a 7.9 clip. With these impressive numbers, she
is a likely candidate for conference Player-of-the-Year, which will be announced this week.

Junior Jennie Vanlerberghe, who earlier this season set the all-time school record for blocked shots, leads the league in that
department with 38. She had three on Saturday against Marshall while playing against 6-foot-7 Erika Fall. Rookie Jen O’Brien is
second in the conference in assists (87) while sophomore Jamie Brown ranks fourth in that category.

Saturday in review

Despite the disappointing loss, there were some positives for the Wildcats. In an interesting twist, the first three Davidson baskets
were scored by the departing seniors. Kirsch opened the Wildcat scoring with a layup off a Monica Winter feed, Amy
Scalcucci followed with a putback, and Winter scored Davidson’s third bucket off of a steal.

In the race for the free television, Phi Delta Theta thoroughly dominated. No other group came close to the fraternity’s
enthusiasm and boisterous behavior. Congratulations to Phi Delt.

Saturday’s crowd of 1,328 was the highest figure this season.

Davidsonian Sports

We'll see you in Greensboro.

Women’s tennis wins Davidson Doubles Classic

By Kerry BROPHY
Staff Writer

The Women’s tennis team returned to the courts with smashing success at the eighth annual Davidson Doubles Classic, held Feb.
7-8. The Wildcats kicked off the Spring season with a victory over six contending teams, defeating Georgetown (4-0), East Tenn.
St. (3-1), and James Madison (4-0) on Saturday. Davidson faced then-undefeated West Virginia and UNC Charlotte on Sunday morning, beating
both teams, 3-1. The Wildcats closed out the tournament in first place and were undefeated in team play.

The doubles pairs of Anna Holland and Julie Summersgill, Dana Casner and Amber Bradford, and Clara Marks and Claire Cheatwood
swept through the tournament undefeated as well.

“It was obviously a great start for us,” remarked head coach Caroline Price. “This year they played outstanding doubles and
were focused and executed well.”

Bradford and Casner, playing in the #1 doubles position, emerged as the best team in the tournament. Their most exciting
victory came in defeating the JMU pair of Schroeder/Pierkowski, 8-6. Both women were named “Athlete of the Week” for their
performance.

MUD-FIGHT

Meagan Mitchell

The rugby club improved to 3-1 this season with wins over Western Carolina (10-5) and App. St. (12-0) this weekend.
It was the team’s first win over the rival Mountaineers in...Two years. Above, Matt Burkhardt pitches the ball to Jason
Cody during their 24-0 victory over Elon on Feb. 16.

Sailing update: Building on success
Due to the success of last season (4th at the South Atlantic Dingy Championships), the Davidson sailing team was able
to capture bids to several desirable regattas in the next 4 months. The Hampton Invitational is the most coveted among
them; it is covered by ESPN and consistently attracts the top teams in the nation.

On Feb. 8, the team continued to build upon the strong momentum of the fall at the Wildcat Regatta, hosted
at the Lake Campus. Skipper Brice Ivy and crew Will Beasley emerged undefeated from the competition with Duke and N.C.
State.

Seniors come up big in Belk farewell
By Daniel Motz
Staff Writer

Seniors Jay Ariail and Narcisse Ewodo were honored in a pregame ceremony on Saturday. Since joining the Wildcats in December,
Ariail, a lineman for the Davidson football team, has provided the team with energy, intensity, and much-needed leadership. Coach Bob
McKillop rewarded Ariail for his fine efforts by giving him his first career start on Saturday.

Ewodo has been a fixture in the Wildcat program since his arrival three years ago. His versatility, hard work, and
quiet leadership will be sorely missed. Ewodo certainly did not go out quietly, scoring the game-winning basket in his final
game at Belk. Heroic actions to some, not so to Cisco. “Hero is a big word,” said Ewodo. “I’m just
happy to be part of this basketball team.”

Post-season honors
Several Wildcats could be in the mix when the Southern Conference announces its post-season accolades this week. Langry Kosmalski is
all but assured of winning Freshman-of-the-Year honors, averaging a solid 13.0 points a game and grabbing 7.6 boards an outing.
But Kosmalski’s efforts should not overshadow fellow freshman Stephen Marshall. His 6.1 points and 3.2 rebounds may be enough to
earn him a spot on the All-Freshman squad.

Ewodo should be a candidate for first team all-conference. He averages 15.8 points, 6.5 rebounds, two assists, and two steals
a game. Mark Donnelly is also a potential candidate for all-conference honors. His 13.8 points, 3.8 rebounds, and 1.7 assists
have been big for the Wildcats all year. And let’s not forget Ali Ton. While honors may be a year
away, his efforts this season should not go unnoticed. He leads the conference in assists (6.8 apg) and in assist-turnover
ratio. Chadd Holmes has saved the best for last. In his past three outings, he has averaged 15 points and
five rebounds.

This article was reported by Daniel Motz from Lexington, Va., and Davidson.

Baseball update: Quattlebaum has record-setting day
Gus Quattlebaum set three school records Feb. 16 against Virginia Commonwealth with four homers, six hits, and ten RBIs in
Davidson’s 17-6 home victory. The effort earned him national college player of the week honors, which he shared with three
others. His bat paced a 21-hit attack, as the Wildcats took two of three from the Rams. Quattlebaum singled in
the first, drilled a solo homer in the third, homered in the fifth, singled in a run, hit a two-out
grand slam in the sixth, and a three-run shot ended his day. “We're glad to get two of three from
them. Mort (Stolk) and John (Coulombe) stepped up big time,” he said.

Aaron Dunham
