The Davidsonian: ALEN DA: “LUX. UBI ORTA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1997 VOLUME 88, NUMBER 18

Davidson sophomore dies in auto accident
While traveling on a snow-packed Utah road, Koyasu and friend lost control of vehicle
By ANN CULP News Editor

Last Sunday at approximately 11 a.m., sophomore Jason Koyasu and his friend Daniel Roberts were killed in a head-on collision with a mini-truck near Spanish Fork Canyon, Utah. Roberts was driving on the snow-packed road when the car slid into the opposite lane. The two former schoolmates from St. Mary's International School in Tokyo were heading to Ann Arbor, Michigan as part of a trip around the U.S. before Koyasu went back to Japan for a semester. Roberts was a student in New Mexico.

“In Japan, we spent so much time studying to get into college that we didn’t get a chance to travel around,” says junior Steve Hsieh, who also went to St. Mary’s in Tokyo.

Bill Giduz
President Kuykendall, Trustee Craig Wall, Jr., and the Watsons and Bakers mark the beginning of construction Thursday.

Life science building breaks new ground
By JEFFREY COKER Staff Writer

Campus officials, members of the Board of Trustees, and friends of the College gathered in front of the Dana Life Science Building on Thursday for the groundbreaking ceremony of the Watson Life Science Building. Drs. Frances and Lenox Baker, Jr., Craig Wall, Jr., Dr. Richard Brubaker, Carolyn Watson, and President John Kuykendall were in the first group to break ground, kicking off the construction that will begin in early March.

Wall, Chairman of the Board of Trustees, told the gathering, “In my twenty years on the Board, no campus event has been more important than the construction of this building.”

Co-chair of the Life Sciences Project Brubaker, commented, “We’ve got great students and great professors, but they just haven’t had a great place to sit down... now they do.”

Watson will house both the biology and psychology departments in order to promote interdepartmental cooperation in fields such as animal behavior and neuroscience. Senior Bill Abrams said, “I’ve spent a lot of time in the neuroscience lab, and it’s a tight ship down there. The new building will be wonderful. More students will be exposed to intensive biomedical research.”

Professor of Biology John Williamson said, “It will be a major boon to teaching undergraduate research. Of course, it’s ten years too late for an old guy like me.”

Watson will be connected by covered bridges to the Dana Building and face the main campus. Together they will make up what will be called the Baker-Watt Science Complex, named for Dr. Lenox Baker and Dr. James Watt. Their respective son and daughter, Drs. Frances and Lenox Baker, Jr., contributed $2.5 million to the project in their honor. Watson will bear the name of Wayne and Carolyn Watson, parents of 1982 graduate Bryna Watson, who also gave generously to the project.

$9.25 million of the $12 million project has been raised so far for the new 32,000 square foot structure.

On Saturday at 10:30 a.m., a memorial service was held for Koyasu in Lingle Chapel. “I sent only one message to Japan that spread out to all of...my high school. I think about 20 students from all over the U.S. are coming down because they can’t go to Jason’s funeral service in Japan,” says Hsieh. Chaplain Rob Spach organized the service which included Koyasu’s host father Carl Sorenson, Dean of International Students Ruth Pittard, and several of Koyasu’s friends. “It captured the essence of who he was as a person and as a friend while at the same time demonstrating that Jason was a great guy,” says sophomore Yu-jay Harris. Koyasu was an Assistant Teacher for the Japanese department and a member of several choral groups. He intended to major in mathematics. Koyasu is survived by two brothers, ages 9 and 16, and parents. “He was very proud of what he had come from and excited about being able to share that here,” says Pittard. Friends remember Koyasu on page 3.

Down-the-hill soon will be on the upside of internet-access
By Kirsten RECKNAGEL
Staff Writer

Some students clamoring for dorm room Pollux access may only have to wait until late March to plug in and log on from the comfort of their own rooms. “Our goal [of wiring Knox, Irwin, and Akers dormitories] is mid to late March,” says John Reuning, Residential Networking Supervisor. Reuning stresses, however, that dorm wiring is only one aspect of the College Administration’s “Network Master Plan.” Currently, he says, this project involves “rewiring the entire campus, and dorms are part of that.” “The entire project will take time,” Reuning says. He adds that wiring is expected to be completed by Fall 1998. When wiring work is completed in Knox, Irwin, and Akers dormitories later this spring, dorm residents will be able to access a web browser such as Netscape, an FTP utility enabling users to download files from a server, and Telnet, which allows users to connect to Pollux, Little, and Chal. Currently, a number of students use modems to connect to such services from their rooms or off campus housing. However, once wiring is completed, connection will be possible when users plug their computer into the data connections mounted on the wall in their rooms. Dorm wiring will not provide access to such applications as WordPerfect, Word, QuattroPro, or other applications available on computers maintained by the Computer Services Center. In order to offer these programs, the College would have to purchase a license for each machine running a specific application. Currently, the College Administration is meeting with potential contractors and working with an engineering firm to develop network hardware specifications. The deadline for contractors to submit bids for the project is February 17 and within a week of that deadline, says Reuning, the project’s supplies are ordered, construction will begin. Of the master networking project, Reuning says “Plans are nearing the end of the draft process. I think once construction starts on this project, it will move fairly quickly.” A 1995 Davidson graduate, Reuning says his role in the networking project “will involve more interaction with the students and less actual network construction.”

THE RHYTHM OF SOLIDARITY

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1