ALENDA LUX: ORTA LIBERTAS  
DAVIDSON COLLEGE  
MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1997  
VOLUME 88, NUMBER 12  

The Buford administration: articulating the vision  
By Mary Care JALONICK  
Executive Editor  

When asked what negative things SGA senators might say about his administration, Warren Buford takes a minute to think. “That’s a hard question,” he says, “I don’t want to sound like I’m fishing for compliments.” He doesn’t have to. No one will say anything bad about him. Tim Saintsing, who served under Buford as an Independent Senator last Spring, says, “I think that his accessibility will be unrivaled by any other SGA president. I have really been able to use him as a mentor. He has been a good friend and a good president.” Former SGA President Bill Gullan, ’96, says: “As a person Warren is first class both in ability and personality. Virtually every leader who sticks their neck out engenders at least some bitterness in others who may be ambitious or seeking leadership roles themselves, but Warren amazingly leads and has the respect, affection, and cooperation of everybody.”  

Buford ran unopposed last year, a situation some attributed to apathy but most attributed to the fact that he was unbeatable. During his four years on the SGA, most people point to one thing that has kept him so successful — accessibility. Rusk representative Heather Brown says she feels that Buford has been “one of the best presidents since I’ve been here. He is really in touch with students, and he is a great liaison with faculty and administration.” Buford feels that “the idea of the president is to articulate the vision of the students.”  

A major factor in his administration was dedication to his promises. He distributed a flyer last January outlining his goals for the year. Twelve months later, a review of the sheet shows that he kept them constantly in mind. He proposed a rides committee, better town-gown relations, a more active Council on Academic Affairs, academic minors, and better polling and response action from the SGA. Of these, he has seen considerable progress. He is currently working on a rides committee, held a town dinner with members of the SGA, helped the Council on Academic Affairs with its successful crusade for minors, and established “Dorm Storm,” which tabulated student opinion and presented it as a resource for different departments to use.  

Among his top accomplishments...  
See President on page 5  

Spring course enrollment  
By Randy HARTWELL  
News Editor  

Prediction is an unsure science, so forecasting the popularity of courses is never easy. Still, when many students found themselves jammed into classes which exceeded their maximum possible enrollments last week, something seemed as usual. East Asian religion classes, and accounting exceed their ceilings. But most classes, such as biology and chemistry, in which it is notoriously difficult to secure places, have open spots, with the exception of what are commonly referred to as “baby bio” and “kiddie chem.”  

One department particularly...  

By WILL BRADSHAW  
Sports Editor  

Last year at Charleston the result was the same, but getting two wins was much more difficult. The men’s swimming and diving team pulled away from the College of Charleston to win comfortably, but the women left thinking they had lost by a point. Later, a scoring error changed the result and gave the Wildcats a one-point victory.This Saturday at Cannon Pool, it wasn’t even close. Both the men and women exhibitioned (didn’t score points) the last two events, and they still won handily (women 146 - 83, men 128 - 89). “We’re doing really well. There were a lot of strong performances. I’m looking forward to Duke now (next weekend). We want to beat them,” Mike McCabe said. “A lot of our improvement is just the strength of the freshmen. Some of them are standouts, but we're just a lot deeper. There is no way we could have gone 1-2-3-4 last year in any event. This year we did it in three or four.” Actually, the Wildcats swept see Wake on page 13.

By now, the Registrar's Office and department chairs, which deal in such probabilities semester after semester, would know what to expect from course enrollments. By most accounts, they do. Registrar Polly Griffin points to a recent printout of Spring 1997 courses, which lists each class offered, its ceiling, the number of students enrolled, and the number of places remaining, saying, “I don’t have any concrete evidence that this semester has been more problematic than previous semesters.” Certainly, most course enrollments reflect that. Perennial favorites such as English seminars, gauging course interest is political science. Of the 16 courses the department is offering this semester, not including independent studies, tutorials, and theses, nine go over the listed ceiling. Five of those are seminars, a number political science professor Lou Ortmayer believes is perhaps more than his department has ever offered. Professor Thomas Kazee, chairman of the Political Science department, says, “The demand for the seminars surprised us,” which he partially attributes to the requirements for the major. See Classes on page 5.

Students return from abroad to a new house
By NARESH NAGELLA
News Editor

Due to unusually large numbers of juniors returning from abroad this semester, RLO did not have enough rooms to accommodate all of them. Still, with some quick thinking and fast work by the Physical Plant, they were able to create a new Residence House over Winter Break to provide on-campus housing for eight men who would have otherwise been literally left out in the cold. The result was “507 Concord.” The newest addition to campus housing is next to the Applied Psychology building. It joins the Manse as another housing option that is not North of Chambers. The house had to have a bathroom added along with the customary wardrobes, dressers, desks, and phone lines in each room. RLO director Kurt Holmes says the college is “taking a substantial loss on the residence,” since preparing it will not be covered by the student’s housing fees, which remained at the double room rate. Junior Resident Sean Keesee says, “I enjoy being able to live in a place with a kitchen and nice porch. It makes the walk to school a little more bearable.” RLO intended to keep the dorm for future use, but it looks as if town zoning laws will limit its occupancy to just this semester. The Manse, however, will be a new housing option that students can choose in the upcoming lottery. Eight students have become the latest group of students from abroad and live on Concord Road.