THE DAVIDSONIAN

MEET THE PRESIDENT

MONDAY, MAY 5, 1997

Student members describe search experience

By WARREN BURFORD, DAVID WICK, CARRIE BLACKBURN, LIZ SALE & JOHN BELL
Guest Writers

Amen.

And with that, Larry Dagenhart, the Chair of the Presidential Search Committee, closed his prayer, and opened the search process for Davidson’s 16th college president. The prayer itself was typical Dagenhart: humorous and uplifting, and as we learned later, much needed.

All 18 members of the committee realized the formidable task of replacing the beloved John Kuykendall and of selecting a leader for an institution so dear to so many. We also realized that anyone who was to follow Dr. Kuykendall would need to be a person of great courage, faith, and character. Unrealistically, we began this process with the intention of identifying a person who could be, from day one, the president John Kuykendall had become over the last twelve years.

As you can imagine, the process was not easy. After screening over 100 applicants, we narrowed the field considerably before deciding whom we would bring to Charlotte for interviews. The two days we spent at the Charlotte Airport interviewing candidates were eventful and enlightening. Candidates were constantly grilled about their employment and personal experiences. As a committee, we were trying to identify the level of energy and commitment that one of these extraordinary people could bring to a very demanding job. In short, we were looking for a unique blend of personality and vision.

We met Bobby Vagt for the first time as a committee in Charlotte last October. While we ate our lunch, we reviewed Bobby’s resume, and remarked over what an interesting choice a former prison warden would be. Although extremely impressive, his resume was not that of the prototypical college president. Then again, Davidson is not your prototypical college.

So with an open mind, we welcomed this Davidson alumnus and immediately realized what makes him so successful. We saw a man short in stature but big in heart, full of enthusiasm, humor and an unquestionable love for his alma mater. Over the next hour and a half, we learned of Bobby Vagt’s business acumen, his dedication to the Presbyterian Church, and his unwavering support of Davidson as a fundraiser, parent and alumnus. After sharing many good laughs, we bid him farewell.

Many months later, as the Search Committee focused their thoughts on who would be the best person for Davidson College, Bobby Vagt’s name surfaced again. After meeting with and discussing candidates with stronger academic records, we came to a decision. This was the defining moment, and it is what makes Davidson so special. We decided that we could not proceed with any of our other candidates because they did not have a strong enough connection to Davidson College. We wanted someone who knows and loves Davidson. We wanted someone with an appreciation for our heritage, and someone who possessed the ability to lead us into the 21st century. We found these things in Bobby Vagt.

As students, we admired Bobby’s willingness to listen and his genuine concern for student life on campus. We were convinced that Bobby, just as his predecessor, would be a students’ president. Moments before the decisive vote, a member of the committee summarized that quality all of us deemed vital. “Through his life of leadership and service, Bobby Vagt represents what Davidson College seeks to produce.” By entrusting Davidson College to Bobby Vagt’s leadership, we are not only affirming our pride in our tradition, we are displaying our belief in ourselves, and in our own futures. During his visit to campus Friday, we hope that the rest of the student body was able to see the special individual we students helped to select to lead Davidson. He not only toured every corner of the campus to meet people, but he also took off his shirt to play basketball with a group of students, and he stayed at the ice cream social until the last students finished eating.

We are proud to have fulfilled our responsibility of bringing a new president to Davidson College. We hope that you will fulfill yours by joining the community to help make his transition a smooth one.

Now, in typical Larry Dagenhart fashion, we wish the Davidson community and the Vagt family godspeed. Amen.

DON’T MISS THE DAVIDSONIAN’S WEB SITE FOR NEWS UPDATES ON THE HONOR COUNCIL'S PROPOSED CHANGES TO THE HONOR CODE AND THE LATEST SPORTS ACTION FROM THE CREW AND LACROSSE TEAMS.

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Henry Louis Smith
1901-1912

William Joseph Martin
1912-1927

Walter L. Lingle
1929-1941

John R. Cunningham
1941-1957

D. Grier Martin
1958-1968

John W. Kuykendall
1984-1997