THE DAVIDSONIAN

Temple of the Dog — One fan sniffs through Hayes Trotter’s senior art exhibit, finds good food, good company, drool.

By Davin Rushton
Staff Writer

This is what I just happened to see at Hayes Trotter’s Senior Art Show, an exhibit centered around dogs, one
day. I remember the day clearly: a crisp breeze flowed from bright blue skies after a heavy rain the night
before. The moist ground and renewed grass made my walk over a delight. I often stopped to dig my toes
into the soil, getting joyfully dirty in the practice of zen total digging. I ran through some puddles to make
my feet presentable for the VAC, slowing down around the tired tulips outside to sprinkle them with more water. Someone
was gracious enough to open the door for me.

Immediately I was torn between radiant Competition and Incredible Hunger, but the green dog in the latter triumphed over Competition’s
hue — or was it the brooding block of cheddar? Incredible Hunger made my tummy burn and my heart growl.
I didn’t know Sunshine could produce so many Cheez-itz. On my way to Desire, I gave Restraint a soft pat
on the nose and took out a tissue — to blow my own nose. His open ears told me he
soon would be holding his snout at least level.

Back to Desire, I'll admit my own drool missed the bowl and stained the carpet when I saw that button.
I was Pavlov’s second conditioned best friend. Effortlessly I missed Desire’s natural fur and warm eyes because his long, strong
tongue sucked me into his abysmal mouth. That’s when I noticed his dull canines and well-loved bowl. The Wager made
me look at my own tags and how tightly they grasp me. I’m glad my father’s my father and I’m
myself. Release. Release. I knew there were some pure, simple wafers in that box; I didn’t even have to check.
The dog’s gentle tongue and soft nose convinced me of it. Plus Nila’s original orange made me think of sunshiny
recesses.

Trying to walk past Competition to view Anonymous, Competition shot some splinters into my skin. Ouch. No more dull canines,
but they were dull to each other. Now more than tongues were thick, so were coats, and muscles — bulging,
flexed. I prayed that last collar would stay on. Premiers, U.S. Opens, and X-Outs rallied with that sea of envy.
Yet they could not ace the practice ball and the fur underneath them, just as the sea of envy could
not reach the ocean’s floor.

Anonymous reminded me that dogs have innocent tails and big, stable paws, huggable bodies and attentive ears, active hind legs
and determined eyes. They got it all. Nothing less. If I forget this, I plan to curl up in Impatience’s
cheeks. Upon leaving I snatched a muffin and slurped up some water from the fountain, leaving

---

Bill Giduz
They say that dogs look like their masters. Above, Hayes Trotter plays with his Desire. Below, Freefeeder treats himself to
America’s #1 Brand of Cheese Cracker.

ARTS & LIVING

Health Awareness Week begins. Petrina P. Burrero, represents survivors of conflict between the Guatemalan army and rebels and speaks on
“To Heal and Reconcile after the Massacre” in the 900 Room 7 p.m.- 8 p.m. Ro Youngchan, associate professor at
George Mason University, speaks on “Korea: Old Culture and New Country” in Phi Hall 7:30 p.m. Jumpin’ Java starts the
pots going in the Outpost 7:30 p.m.- 12:30 a.m. Seattle Mime Theatre performs “An Evening in America” in Love Auditorium
8:15 p.m.- 10 p.m. Coffeehouse turns the 900 Room into a quaint café 8:15 a.m.- 11:15 a.m. David and Deirdre
Herrington ask “Is Estrogen Really the Cure for What Ails You?” in Chambers Gallery 7 p.m.- 8 p.m. Jumpin’ Java
honors Margaret Lumpkin for being so darn cool in the Outpost 7:30 p.m.- 12:30 p.m. Twenty-One Year Old Night asks
“Is Beer Really the Cure for What Ails You?” in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m.- 12:30 p.m.the remnants on my
face. Dogs seek the natural, unaware of fat grams. They eat the real thing. Yum. Thanks for the home cooking,
Hayes.

Get Pumped: How to Make $25 for Sitting on Your Sweet Lily-white
By Liz Sale & Sarah Zogby
Guest Writers

My Visa bill started this grand adventure. I realized quickly that after I emptied my bank account, I still needed
$127.16 to break even. Perhaps I shouldn’t have flown to San Francisco that one time, or maybe the shopping spree
at Target was a little excessive (thanks anyway, SGA Shuttle). The fact of the matter is, I have six weeks
before my job at the Physical Plant kicks in, 46¢ on declining, no meal plan, and no income. What’s a
girl to do?

I reevaluated my resources and appraised my net worth to be a neat pair of plastic Target pumps, a fairly
clean health record, and eight pints of blood flowing through me. Unfortunately, because my Target receipt had been confiscated by
a rather rude Wal-Mart employee in a failed attempt to return a half-empty jar of apricot facial scrub, the Alpha
Plasma Center (332-1510) was my only option that didn’t involve aluminum cans on the side of the highway.

Linda, R.N., greeted me with a preliminary interview which included being weighed-in, answering rather personal questions about my sexual activity,
and checking for visible piercings and tattoos. With my mouth firmly shut and my shirt tucked in (I didn’t figure
my tongue stud, navel ring, or that itty-bitty star on my lower back really counted), she assessed that the glass
of water and two Advil I had for breakfast was not sufficient and gave me a peanut butter sandwich.

On to phase two. I sat in the waiting room discussing the current rumors surrounding Bobbi Brown and Whitney Houston.
According to a man with five teeth, they’re both “smokin’ the shit,” and that’s why she’s been more mellowed out
lately. My newfound friends and I moved into the main room and were hooked up to our own humming white
centrifuges. I’m not going to beat around the bush on this, they stuck me with a BIG needle and it
hurt. However, the momentary pain dissolved when I realized that one of the seven big screen TVs was carrying semi-pro
wrestling. Next thing I knew, The Undertaker was the new World Champion and a pint of my blood had been
sucked, spun, separated, and injected back into me (minus some plasma).

See I Sold My Body page 12

WEDNESDAY
Health Fair has lots of free stuff like magnets and toothbrushes and if you come early maybe even bagels on
Chambers Lawn 11 a.m.-2 p.m.
SGA Day serves a healthy dose of hamburgers and hot dogs on the Union Patio 11 p.m.-2 p.m.
Four One-Acts performed in the Black Box Theater 7 p.m.-9 p.m.
Tony Snow, ’77, a national political commentator of “Fox News Sunday,” speaks and presents Davidson’s Charles Lloyd Awards for non-fiction
prose to students in the 900 Room 7 p.m.-9 p.m.
Army of Darkness shines in the 900 Room 9:30 p.m.-11:30 p.m.

THURSDAY
CROP Lunch serves beans and rice for a small fee in the 900 Room 11:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m.
Four One-Acts performed again in the Black Box Theater 7 p.m.-9 p.m.
DC Symphony Orchestra, Concert Choir, and Chamber Singers perform Bach and Mozart at DCPC 8 p.m.-9:30 p.m.
Army of Darkness shines again in the 900 Room 9:30 p.m.-11:30 p.m.

FRIDAY
VASMOHL Coffeehouse serves coffee in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m.
FAC/Welcoming Reception for the Union Reunion on Richardson Plaza 4:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m.
FAC Pub serves the faithful a few in the 900 Room 4:30 p.m.-8 p.m.
Duran Duran plays in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m.

SATURDAY
Service Saturday at Ada Jenkins. Contact B.J. Huff for more info.
Blue Dogs, a rock group of Davidson alum, play at the Outpost 10 p.m.-11:30 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java brews it up at the Outpost 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m.
Sexuality Forum might actually happen in the 900 Room 8 p.m.-10 p.m.
