THE DAVIDSONIAN

People should be allowed to kill their own children, so long as those children are infants. After about age three, a child can reasonably be expected to think as a complete person thinks. Before that age, he is not a true person but only a biological entity. Also, at that age, the child has yet to develop enough life experiences to make him fear death, and those around him will have very few memories of him. Thus grief will be kept to a minimum if he is killed.

I propose that infanticide be legalized in the United States. I support the establishment of centers which, at the demand of the mother, will perform the infanticides. Such centers should be reasonably staffed by competent personnel who understand the advantages of infanticide. To be well-informed and competent, those who would work in and use the centers should understand a few points about infanticide.

Infanticide is a viable option for parents who, after the child has lived a few months or years, determine that the child will be disadvantaged in life. Such parents include those from poor neighborhoods, those who have participated in incest, and those who would be forced to give up education in order to raise the child. With a painless dose of a heavy drug, the child could be spared the burden of living a disadvantaged life. Particular attention would be paid to those teenage parents who realize, after a year or two, that their child is a drain on their social lives and income. Such parents would be happy to learn that the infanticide of one child would in no way affect their ability to have another. Imagine the sheer happiness of these young people when they realize that infanticide can work for them! They could be rid of the child, with little to rest on their memories as an older child. Hence, the loss of the child would not psychologically scar his parents, whereas the death of a three-year-old would. One can easily see, then, how unobjectionable infanticide is.

Some might pose a legal argument to my proposal. Infanticide might incorrectly be labeled murder by those of the legal profession. I will show how this is not so. Murder is, by definition, the intended termination of another’s life. One must then define life to arrive at a conclusion concerning murder. Although its definition may be hard to grasp, human life can be assumed to mean coherent thought processes coupled with feelings and problem-solving skills. In this way, human life is distinct from animal life, and intentional ending of said human life is murder. As we can plainly see, infanticide is not equal to murder. A two-year-old child’s thought processes cannot be described as coherent. Certainly, a wild waving of arms and crying does not constitute coherent thought. Without coherent thought and voluntary feelings, one cannot easily know when a child’s mind begins to interpret feelings as something more than gross body reactions. Problem-solving skills also evade very young children. To mislabel mere body functioning as life takes away something that is uniquely human. One could just as easily label a kitten as a human life form! It breathes, cries, eats, and makes waste. It cannot do math or have feelings. Thus, it is not human, and neither are infants.

One may argue that my proposal for infanticide is too soon. One may say that no child should be killed in the infanticide centers after reaching age three. Ethical reasons prevent the consideration of older children for the practice. A three-year-old, for instance, has enough mental development to be considered a “person.” He has a memory and can interact with those around him while growing and adapting to his environment. He can feel pain. Although a two-year-old can also feel pain, he often doesn’t understand what causes it. Therefore, he is less developed as a person than a three-year-old. Furthermore, since an infant would have lived for a short time, the young child would not be present in as many of his parents’ memories.

Liberty shines where light has arisen. Davidson’s motto refers to the meaning of education. Education leads to truth, truth leads to enlightenment, and enlightenment leads to rational understanding and freedom from the burdens of misperception. Is that correct, or does truth lead to a 3.8 which leads to medical school which leads to a six-digit salary? Call me an idealist; you will be speaking the truth. I have lofty beliefs which will most likely be exposed for the dreams that they are once I receive my first poverty-line paycheck. I hope, however, that I still hold some of this idealism when I have children and encourage them to attend a liberal arts school.

Many people spend their college careers studying and stressing, complaining about workload and canceling plans. They study furiously in the library but rarely take a break to give time in other ways. We are here to study, to learn, and to make good grades. But our specific education is liberal arts, which means by definition that we are here to learn in many different capacities, and about many different things. In order to receive a full education, one must step out of the bounds that are created by our syllabi and attempt to establish some sort of an identity.

Some people at Davidson resist this identity. They pick one that they have seen before, for that is the safest. They do what is expected of them, but they rarely reach out beyond the parameters that parents or friends or personal expectations have set. In the last three years, I have witnessed a disturbing trend at Davidson — people here are becoming less and less involved. In many situations, I see talented people giving up opportunities to give Davidson a taste of our total potential. Often involvement in an activity or organization at Davidson is a sacrifice. However, at Convocation Wednesday several award winners proved that in order to be involved one does not have to make sacrifices. As awards were handed out, I listened to the lists of accomplishments read about each one. They are athletes, scholars, presidents of organizations, and people I see out every weekend. I admire these people greatly, for they did not sacrifice but lived up to their potential. We do not all have it in us to give time to three or four major activities, but we were all admitted to this school for a reason — because we are in some way talented. Upon graduation, we will all be expected to live up to our potential.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary thought processes, they do not constitute coherent thought! And, although a child may have rudimentary