THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
MONDAY, APRIL 21, 1997

NEWS BRIEFS

Memorial service honors Wall

A memorial service was held for Edwin Craig Wall, Jr. on Friday at Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Assistant Chaplain Brenda
Tapia welcomed the hundreds of people who came to the service while Rev. Dr. Scott Woodmansee and Rev. Dr. William
Wood gave the homilies. The Davidson College Concert Choir sang, and sophomore Megan Druesedow was the organist.

Expansion of CatCard use two-and-a-half years away

At the April 15 SGA meeting, Buster Burk announced that CatCards will not see expanded use for several years. Paying
at copiers and at vending machines with CatCards will not become an option until the College purchases a larger inter-campus
computer system. Also, not much will be done until the contract with the company servicing them expires in two-and-a-half years.

SGA budget confusing senate, ATC

By ANN CULP
News Editor

In February, the SGA voted itself an increase in the amount of money it automatically receives from the Activities Tax
Council (ATC), going from 4.3% to 5%. On Tuesday, the SGA decided to submit its own budget — at less
than 5%.

“The SGA was constantly exceeding the 4.3%, and we thought that 5% would be reasonable and meet our needs. The
Student Executive Council [SEC] decided that SGA didn’t need that much money, though. The percentage is really superfluous. We can
get however much money we want because we pass the budget,” says SGA Chancellor Joslyn Ogden.

The ATC determines how much money chartered organizations are allocated. Its figures are presented to SGA which approves the budget
with a majority vote. Because the SEC submitted a budget that was not automatically 5%, it must be approved by
the SGA with a two-thirds vote.

“Technically, I didn’t have to prepare a budget,” says SGA President Buster Burk. “But personally for me and the rest
of the administration, I think that would have been an insult to the ATC, and I was interested in their
recommendations. It was kind of a nice gesture to ATC and the student body that we didn’t need the money.”

Although the ATC's allocations must be approved by the SGA, Burk intended for the SGA to “act like a model
organization” for chartered organizations when he presented his budget. “The ATC is below the SGA. We can have any budget
we want, it’s really all our money,” says Burk.

SGA By-Laws and Charters Committee chair sophomore Jonathan Sipling best summed up the ATC’s role for the SGA. “It is
an institute of convenience to help the SGA distribute its money.”

It has been puzzling to have SGA negate its automatic 5% privilege, which the SGA created for itself, and submit
a budget that SGA approves. “They [SGA and ATC] are not two separate bodies, so there is going to be
confusion,” says sophomore Conner Eldridge.

Now accepting qualified egg donors

You can help infertile couples conceive by becoming an egg donor. The Institute for Assisted Reproduction, a private infertility clinic
in Charlotte, NC, is seeking women between the ages of 21 and 34 as donor candidates. Qualified egg donors will
receive $1,800 in compensation for the significant amount of time and energy involved. Health and psychological screening is required at
no charge. To learn how you can become a donor, call (704) 342-8235.

For information on Egg Donation call: (704) 342-8235

Snow reigns on return

NARESH NAGELLA
Associate News Editor

Tony Snow ’77, one of Washington’s newest and foremost political pundits, came to campus this weekend to present the Charles
Lloyd Award for non-fiction prose and to attend his reunion. Snow is the host of “Fox News Sunday,” an editorial
contributor for U.S.A. Today, and a former chief speechwriter for President George Bush.

In the category of formal/scholarly essay, Cintra Pollack won first place and Geordie Schimmel took second. In the category of
informal/personal essay, Ned Erickson was awarded first place and Lisa Senneff second. Snow judged both categories.

Snow then talked about the “Washington Scene.” He characterized Washington generally as “a brutal town where you cannot take friendship
personally.” He stated that Washington’s importance in originating national initiatives might be waning. “The states have been the exemplars of
welfare reform and new ideas. Washington is a lagging indicator. It is no longer a place where ideas are hatched,”
he said.

Along those lines, he tried to explain that nothing was going on in Washington because of an interplay of strange
personalities, and because both parties are in a period of necessary revision and introspection to make their ideas more in
tune with the electorate. “The two parties are sparring to find out what the future needs to be. They...Here is
the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"have some mountains to climb. We should expect a period of inspired and comical chaos,” he said. Snow says that
President Clinton “is a compelling politician, but one who thinks no risk is too dumb.” He criticized the “small” agenda
the President has taken up, such as safer car air bags. “The President has decided to lead by not leading,”
he said. He also critiqued Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich. Snow praised Gingrich’s accomplishments, but stated he does have
some awkward problems. “Newt has never had an unexpressed thought. He was a compelling leader of a revolution two years
ago, who is now figuring out how he wants to lead,” he said. Overall, Snow hopes that politicians once again
learn that “politics is a matter of building trust in increments. People followed along because that was the general consensus
of how things were done.”

Union Reunion reflects on storied past, exciting future
By JENNIFER STARR
Staff Writer

Davidson alumni and current students were invited to a celebration this weekend in honor of the Union’s 45th birthday, as
participants in the Union Reunion celebrated the Union’s past and learned about its future. William Brown, director of the Union,
hopes that the event was “a really wonderful time for people who have had special experiences at the Union to
get together, reminisce, meet people who have done the same kinds of things they have, celebrate, and talk about our
hopes and dreams for the future.” Brown also stressed that the events were inclusive. “Current students can come and go
through the events without feeling that it is all or nothing. We invited 200 students who are current or former
Union Board members and student employees. Anyone is welcome to come who identifies himself as part of the Union family,”
he says.

The reunion kicked off on Friday afternoon with a frisbee golf tournament on Richardson Plaza. Frisbee golf tournaments, which have
not been held in several years, are a Union tradition. The course for the current tournament was the same course
used 12 years ago. Following the golf tournament, a Friday Afternoon Club Reception was held featuring magic performed by Bobby
Halk ‘87. Bill Giduz alumni a chance to stroll down memory lane.

SGA Day time for reflection
By ALLISON DOLPH
Staff Writer

Hotdogs and hamburgers were served to students and faculty on the Union Patio as part of the fourth annual SGA
day on Wednesday. The purpose of SGA Day is to bring faculty, students, and staff together. In return for the
free food, students filled out surveys which included sign-ups for SGA committees, schedules to drive as part of the Rides
Program, and surveys of classes. From the surveys, the Council on Academic Affairs will compile a booklet of student rankings
to help guide course selection.

SGA President Buster Burk took a few minutes to reflect on the direction of his young administration as he dished
out burgers and dogs. He mentioned as accomplishments conducting a priorities poll, chartering everyone (including the Intervarsity Christian Fellowship), chairing
all the committees, and refining the new Rides Program. Burk is looking into plans for a campus playground, which he
will soon present to all College committees. “The new SGA administration has devoted a few weeks to completing the transition
from the former administration,” says Burk. “A leadership retreat for SGA will be held this Saturday.”

Freshman Joslyn Ogden, SGA Chancellor, shares Burk’s enthusiasm for SGA Day and student government. “I am happy by the number
of students on SGA Day signing up for committees, which I consider essential to the operation of the SGA,” says
Ogden. “I feel fortunate to have the opportunity to learn more about myself by working within an established institution and
serving the College community.”

That evening a Progressive Dinner was held in the Union with open-mike night for students and alumni in the 900
Room. Saturday morning, Union Reunion participants met to learn about the future of the Union. Brown and Tom Shandley, dean
of students, spoke about future plans for the Union and unveiled a plaque dedicated to C. Shaw Smith, Sr., the
first director of the Union. That evening, Sam Spenser, former Davidson College president who oversaw much of the Union’s development,
spoke at the closing banquet. Following the banquet, The Blue Dogs, featuring several members of the Class of 1987, performed
at the Union Outpost. The Union Reunion was planned by Union staff and by a student committee chaired by Sara
Beth Hamlin. About 175 people signed up to participate, including 90 alumni and several members of the Classes of ‘87
and ‘88 who had helped organize the last Union Reunion.
