At Eagerly Awaited Event, Torrey's Wildcats All Over Airwaves

By Michael J. Kruse
Editor in Chief

The men’s basketball team will enjoy unprecedented coverage over the airwaves this season. Eight strong FM signals will give Davidson
more radio accessibility than over three-fourths of the Division I men’s college basketball programs in the country. Wildcat basketball —
and the voices of play-by-play announcer Frank Santore and color commentator Brad Childress — will be able to be heard
from the mountains to the coast in both North and South Carolina and in parts of Virginia, Tennessee, and Kentucky.

Gaffney, S.C.-based WAGI-FM (105.3), the Davidson Radio Network’s flagship station with a booming 100,000-watt signal, is scheduled to carry more
than 20 regular season Davidson contests, including the Duke, Wake Forest, UMass, and UNC Charlotte games, and a potential matchup
with Arizona in the Fiesta Bowl Classic on Dec. 30 in Tucson, Ariz. WAGI will reach all fans in Metrolina
(the Charlotte market), the Asheville-Greenville-Spartanburg market, and over half of North and South Carolina, ranging to Mount Airy and Columbia.

Other FM stations carrying Wildcat action this season are: WIST 98.3, based in High Point, N.C., serving High Point, Winston-Salem,
and Greensboro; WKRX 96.7, based in Roxboro, N.C., serving Durham, Chapel Hill, Burlington, N.C., and the Martinsville, Va., area; WSMG
103.1 in Greenville, Tenn., covering the Tennessee Tri-Cities, southeastern Kentucky, and southwestern Virginia markets; WLIL 93.5 in Knoxville, Tenn., which
will transmit the Wildcat signal into Tennessee’s SEC territory; WSAY 98.5 in Rocky Mount, N.C., blanketing Raleigh, Goldsboro, Rocky Mount,
and the surrounding counties. Also joining the Davidson Radio network this season is WAZS-AM 980, based in Summerville, S.C.

Santore, a 1981 Davidson graduate, is the president of Gino Communications in Greenville, Tenn. He is entering his third year
as play-by-play man for the Wildcat broadcasts. Childress, entering his first year as Davidson’s color analyst, is a former Campbell
basketball standout and assistant coach.

THE DSS TOP 25
1. Arizona (100 points). Defending national champions open Thursday with Morgan St.
2. (Tie) Kansas (92). Roy Williams’ squad opened with ho-hum 99-73 victory over Santa Clara.
2. (Tie) Carolina (92). Heels crushed Middle Tennessee in their opener and meet the Spiders of Richmond tomorrow.
2. (Tie) Duke (92). Blue Devils handled Army Sunday. Thursday's competition ups the ante.
5. UCLA (84). Steve Lavin's Bruins are just hanging out until their Nov. 27 blockbuster versus Carolina.
6. Clemson (77). 67-50 win over UNC Wilmington wasn't all that impressive for Rick Barnes’ Tigers.
7. Purdue (75). Gene Keady’s Boilermakers are busy scoring points and making small conference teams look bad.
8. Kentucky (71). Morehead St. should not pose much of a threat Thursday night.
9. South Carolina (70). McKie's and Watson's Gamecocks barely squeaked by Maryland in overtime.
10. New Mexico (64). Kenny Thomas and his boys preparing for tomorrow's showdown with intrastate rival New Mexico St.
11. UConn (59). The Huskies beat Yale in their opener. Yeah, and?
12. Xavier (54). The Musketeers — are they for real? — open tomorrow with Toledo.
13. Fresno St. (52). We know Tark’s misfits can play basketball. But can they read?
14. Stanford (49). We know the Cardinal can read. But can they play basketball?
15. (Tie) Illinois St. (30). You heard us. Illinois St.
15. (Tie) Rhode Island (30). Tyson Wheeler and Jim Harrick are a winning team in tiny, icy Rhode Island.
17. UNC Charlotte (25). Just those 49ers wait until Dec. 10.
18. Iowa (20). The Hawkeyes are averaging 109.5 points a game.
19. Nevada-Las Vegas (18). We know Tark's former misfits can play basketball. But can they read?
19. (Tie) Utah (18). Rick Majerus’ Utes are minus Keith Van Horn, but they're still a team to beat in
the WAC.
21. (Tie) Louisville (17). The Cardinals open with Coach McKillop's alma mater — Hofstra — Nov. 27.
21. (Tie) South Alabama (17). Thanks in large part to Jay, the Jags are in.
23. Temple (15). The Owls are at it again, beating Indiana this week.
24. Syracuse (10). Jay likes the Orange. And that's the only reason they're here.
25. Indiana (9). One more slip, though, and it's see you later, Bobby.

DSS voting members: Michael J. Kruse, Jay Cantrell, Daniel Motz, Andy Armstrong

Burns Sizzles in Exhibition Opener
Wildcats Open with Rout of Royals

By Michael J. Kruse
Editor in Chief

David Burns has always been a scorer. As a high schooler at Bishop McGuinness in Winston-Salem, the 6-foot-7 forward carved
a niche in North Carolina schoolboy lore, putting up Jordan-esque scoring outputs throughout his career. But at least at the
collegiate ranks, he had never scored like he did Thursday night in the Wildcats’ impressive 101-65 exhibition victory at Belk
Arena, tallying 23 points on a three-point-shooting exhibition that brought the respectable mid-week preseason crowd of 1,295 to its feet.

Burns connected on seven of his eight attempts from behind the arc, and in one 3:50 stretch midway through the
first half hit five straight bombs. "He’s lethal when he has the ball in his hands,” coach Bob McKillop said.
“Tonight, he showed why.”

Burns definitely stole the show, but several other Wildcats and the team as a whole showed why this squad is
heavily favored to win the Southern Conference and make the school’s first trip to the NCAA tournament since 1986. Shooting
guard Mark Donnelly went for 19 on 7-of-13 shooting. Stephen Marshall, who started at center, notched 11 points. Defending league
freshman of the year Landry Kosmalski had a vintage Kosmalski-esque effort, sacrificing his body en route to 10 points and
eight rebounds. Chadd Holmes scored only four points, but contributed seven rebounds and six assists — behind only Ali Ton’s
nine.

“Shooting is a catalyst to a lot of other positive things,” McKillop said. “Good things happen. And that was a
great shooting exhibition tonight.” Indeed. Davidson hit 52.8% of its field goals and posted an astronomical .542 clip on threes.
“When you shoot it well, you always look good,” associate head coach Steve Shurina added. “But it was pretty good.”

“Having nine or 10 guys who can start makes for some pretty fierce competition in practice every day,” Burns said.
“That makes the games just a chance to have fun.”

Davidson Sports Information
Junior forward David Burns hit 7-of-8 three-pointers in scoring 23 points. The Wildcats opened their exhibition schedule with a 101-65
win over the Charlotte Royals.

Wildcats Handle Lithuanian Team in Final Tune-Up for Duke on ThursdayDaniel Motz Senior Staff Writer

In their final tune-up for the regular season, which opens Thursday at Duke, the Wildcats routed Drobe-Juta-RV, a Lithuanian team,
90-60 last night at Belk Arena. The win, the second and final exhibition for the Wildcats, showcased the depth this
year’s team expects to possess this winter.

“I was very pleased with the effort,” coach Bob McKillop said. “And that is augmented by the fact that we
have such a deep roster and we're not going to be afraid to use it when the season starts.”

Mark Donnelly led a balanced Davidson offensive attack, scoring 16. Ben Ebong added 15 and Ali Ton chipped in with
nine points, eight rebounds, six steals, and 10 assists. Eleven players scored for Davidson and no Wildcat played more than
23 minutes.

It was clear from the outset that the Lithuanian players — who averaged 26 years of age (and their tallest
player was 6-foot-8) — had neither the speed nor size to compete with the Wildcats.

“This was a very good experience for us to experiment defensively,” McKillop said. “It gave us the opportunity to do
some zone, double-teaming, and camouflage full court press.”

The defensive effort resulted in 28 Lithuanian turnovers, 19 in the first half. During a 10-minute stretch in the first
half, the Wildcats did not allow a field goal, going on a 24-1 run.

“We really pride ourselves on defense,” said Ebong, whose two thunderous dunks midway through the second brought the Belk crowd
to its feet. “Overall, it was a solid performance for us. I think several of us were looking ahead to
Thursday for both the Duke game and the start of the regular season.”

In preparation for Thursday’s game against Duke, the Wildcats take today off and travel to Durham Wednesday evening after practice.

Women set new precedent in near upset of Vandy

Women from page 16

After a battle for the rebound, the ball went out of bounds and was rewarded to Davidson with 0.6 seconds
on the clock. The Wildcats came up with a play for Jessica Montrella, but she could not get off a
shot before the buzzer.

“They underestimated us,” coach John Filar said. “They were completely frustrated by our defense.” But in the end, it was
Vanderbilt’s experience in close games that made the difference. This was the first time the Wildcats had ever played a
nationally-ranked team.

“We just relied on our fundamentals,” said O’Brien, who led all scorers with 19 points. Her dribble penetration frustrated the
Commodores all night. The Wildcats' defense and rebounding also drove Vanderbilt crazy. Davidson surprisingly dominated the boards, outrebounding the Commodores
by nine.

“It was such a good feeling to see the confidence growing in our players,” Filar said about his team huddles
during the media timeouts. “They finally took us seriously,” Brown said.

The Wildcats took a 38-29 lead into halftime. In the second half, the Wildcats were up 52-42 with 10 minutes
to play. Then the Vanderbilt crowd exploded as the Commodores staged their comeback.

“It was rocking at the end,” Filar said of the crowd’s intensity. “They have only three losses at home in
the last five years. It is the toughest place to play in the Southeastern Conference.” The crowd noise was so
loud at one point that the Wildcats could not hear the referee’s whistle, much less advice from their coach. The
benches at Vanderbilt are located on the endlines as opposed to the sidelines.

After Vanderbilt escaped with the win, their crowd gave the Wildcats a standing ovation as they left the court. “The
reaction after the game by Vandy’s fans to our players told the story,” said Filar, noting that several fans even
approached Davidson players and admitted that the Wildcats should have won the contest.

Despite the loss, the Wildcats now know they can play with virtually any team in the country. And they will
not face another team as heavily-favored as Vanderbilt again — unless they make it to the NCAA tournament in March.

“There is not a single negative to take out of this trip,” Filar said. “It was great to see their
confidence grow. It proves how close we are. But we can never let ourselves be put into that situation where
we overlook someone. We owe every team we play the same respect we gave Vandy.”

Saturday vs. C. Michigan at Mt. Pleasant, Mich. (2:00)
Conference: Mid-American
Last year: 11-16, 7-11 MAC
Coach: Fran Voll (2nd year, 11-16)
Players to watch: Julie Miller (5-5, Sr., G/F, 8.7 ppg, 3.9 rpg); Ebony Rainge (6-1, Sr., F/C, 7.3 ppg, 4.8
rpg)

Noting the Chippewas: Central Michigan started the MAC season last year at 0-9, but rebounded to win seven league games
in the second half of the conference schedule. Tracy Renken, now a graduate assistant coach for the Chippewas, starred on
the court last year, notching 16.1 points and 6.4 rebounds per contest. CMU's non-conference schedule also includes Saint Louis, Michigan
St., Georgia, and Manhattan, and Michigan. Miller led the team with 97 assists and had an .863 free throw mark.
She received votes for the MAC all-freshman team as a rookie. Rainge scored in double figures 10 times last year.
She has been a starter since her sophomore season. Before coming to CMU, Voll compiled quite a resume as a
coach and administrator at Bowling Green, taking the Falcons to four consecutive MAC titles and tournament championships from 1987-90. He
was twice named MAC Coach of the Year (1987 and 1990). Bowling Green won the first NCAA women's tourney game
in MAC history in 1989.

Voll on the Chippewas: “It is exciting with new players coming in and the returning players getting their opportunity to
step forward. We have a lot of work to do to see where everything shakes out.”

Sunday vs. Saginaw Valley St. at University Ctr., Mich. (3:00)
Conference: Great Lakes Intercollegiate Athletic (GLIAC), Division II
Last year: 19-11, 10-8 GLIAC
Coach: Suzy Merchant (3rd year, Central Michigan ‘91)
Players to watch: Becky Schramski (6-0, Sr., C); Jenny Rommel (5-10, Jr., G/F)

Noting the Lady Cardinals: Saginaw Valley plays two games this season outside the state of Michigan — both in Erie,
Pa. Every single player on the Lady Cardinals’ roster hails from Michigan. Saginaw Valley's women's basketball team was placed on
the NCAA Division II Academic Top 25 Team Honor Roll by the Women’s Basketball Coaches Association in October. Four Lady
Cardinals had 4.0 GPAs last semester and the team’s average was a 3.231.

*All stats from last season

Michael Kruse
