6 THE DAVIDSONIAN ELSEWHERE MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1997

Diplomatic Relations will not change despite “widespread” human rights abuses in China

The State Department announced its critical report of “widespread and well-documented” human rights abuses in China last week. But most
officials will say the policy of Most Favored Nation trading status and high-level visits and talks with China shall remain
unchanged. The report cites China for holding thousands of political and religious prisoners and said that “all public dissent was
effectively silenced.” Chinese officials called the U.S. actions “interference” in its personal affairs.

New Secretary of State Madeleine Albright plans to keep her trip to Beijing and indicates that she will not ignore
the issue of human rights. In 1992, President Clinton campaigned against the current U.S. policy in China and hinted that
he would revoke the trading status. However, under pressure from U.S. businesses in China, he did not take any action.
The administration now looks as if it will engage China through trade and diplomacy instead of protectionism and approbation.

China is undergoing an emergence after years of keeping its economy in check to fight off inflation and to control
growth. It also could be in the midst of a change in power. The new regime could be more conducive
to civil liberties or might not even continue to pursue market reforms. The handling of Hong Kong’s return to China
this year will definitely signal to the U.S. the Chinese commitment to fair trade and tolerance for basic human rights.
Until then, the Clinton administration looks as if it will continue its wait-and-see approach to what has now become known
as the difficult issue of “China.”

Source: USA Today

Congress tackles balanced budget amendment

The Framers never wanted the Constitution to be easily changed. As the difficulty in passing the balanced budget amendment indicates,
their designs have worked well to achieve that purpose. After the Senate Republicans achieved a 55-45 majority during the last
elections, most policy analysts thought a balanced budget would easily pass. It failed by only one vote in the last
session, as Republican Mark Hatfield of Oregon joined 33 Democrats to kill the amendment.

However, this year, all Republicans support the bill and only need 12 Democrats to pass it. The House is ready
to pass the amendment at any time and is only waiting for Senate action first. It does not look as
if it will receive any trouble there. Last week, the Senate Judiciary Committee passed the bill on a 13-5 vote.
But the bill looks like it will have trouble clearing the Senate due to two Democrats in particular and a
squabble over the budget calculating formula.

The Senate Republicans can only rely on the votes of 10 Democratic Senators. Senator Joe Biden (Dem. - Del.) and
Senator Robert Torricelli (Dem. - New Mexico) might also vote for the bill, but are demanding big concessions. They want
the bill to possibly exclude Social Security and capital investments (roads, bridges, etc.) from the provisions of a balanced budget.
Republican sponsors say that would be too big a loophole and really just make the bill ineffectual.

President Clinton does not support the amendment, but he has no formal voting power in stopping it. After a two-thirds
approval in Congress, the possible amendment will go to state legislatures. A ratification of the amendment by two-thirds of all
states will also be required for the official inclusion of the amendment into the Constitution. Here the bill looks as
if it will find little trouble as long as the economy does well and public mood (70% want the amendment)
stays constant.

Sources: USA Today and the New York Times.

International ... Three Israelis killed in Lebanon

A roadside bomb killed three Israeli soldiers in Lebanon last Thursday. The Iranian-backed Hezbollah “Party of God” claimed responsibility. Israeli
President Benjamin Netanyahu demanded that Syria try to rein in the terrorist group. Casualties haveHere is the cleaned OCR text,
preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Continue to mount in that area fueling debate as to the efficacy of keeping Israeli troops in the dangerous region:

French move closer to privatizing their social security. A bill to introduce private pension funds cleared one of its last
hurdles on the way to becoming law. But, the Socialist Party has vowed to repeal it if it gains power
in 1998. Most opponents of the bill say it is too risky to trust the retirement of the country’s workers
to the ups and downs of the market. However, some countries, like Chile, have already done this move with similar
programs and say it is more efficient and eventually better for taxpayers than state-run systems.

National Democrats announce their plan for campaign finance reform. The Democratic leadership of Congress has announced its plans to allow
states to have more freedom to limit campaign contributions. Also, they want a constitutional amendment limiting the cost of campaigns
or at least allowing stronger public control over them. The intent is to stop as many unlimited “soft” money donations
as possible.

Cosby family will pay reward for information on son’s murder. The Cosby family does not want taxpayer money going to
fund the police investigation of their son’s murder as is customary with such crimes. Two tabloids have offered $300,000 for
information, but the family does not want the LAPD or city councils to fund their own rewards. Police are still
questioning and following the leads of what is believed to be one eyewitness to the killings.

Local Citadel hazer leaves. Citadel College in Charleston, South Carolina has announced that a male cadet accused of hazing two
female cadets has resigned from the college. The two women quit and only two were left enrolled. But, the college
says 24 women have been accepted to attend classes this summer. The school is still having difficulty integrating females onto
the campus after court rulings forced the college to accept women.

Sources: USA Today, New York Times

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Cry loudly
5 Sorrow
10 House, in Jerez
14 Cleveland's take
15 “— Lucy” (TV rerun)
16 — arms (very angry)
17 Dancer Pavlova
18 Troubled
19 Have confidence
20 Interfere
24 Direction
26 Dried out
27 Meant by implication
31 Feeding trough
35 Winglike part
36 Flower part
38 Filched
39 Hoarfrost
41 Piece of turf
43 Shoe part
44 Occurrence
46 Cut into cubes
48 Caesar of old
49 Passover meals
51 Identity
53 Crucifix
55 — majesty
56 Sock pattern
58 Like corduroy
62 Et — (and others)
63 Violin name
66 Indian language
67 City in Poland
68 French painter
69 Cafe au —
70 Dueling sword
71 Foe
72 ABA member

DOWN
1 Girder
2 English composer
3 Gale
4 Heavy
5 Dispossessed
6 Cry at bullfights
7 Smoked salmon
8 Kilns
9 Cash in
10 Undertows
11 Mimicked
12 Farm structure
13 “Have you — wool?”
21 Kingdom in Asia
23 Times
25 Lukewarm
27 Concerns
28 Oil source
29 Called
30 Bette
32 Web-footed bird
33 Famed New York island
34 Hollow stems
37 Not widespread
40 Give power to
42 Recklessness
45 Actor Donahue
47 Mr. Amaz
50 Travel or Tankard contents
52 Evil spirit
54 Revise a text
56 Drooping
60 Revise a text
61 Tax
64 Exist
65 Male animal

© 1996 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All rights reserved.
