Vigilante justice: Down with the freak

On those rare days that I leave my apartment and attend class, I’m always surprised by just how many people stop and ask me how my apartment-mates and I cope with being some of the more dynamic and intriguing characters on this campus. Being the modest type, I usually just smile and answer, “You get used to it. Here, have a Mento. It’s the Freshmaker, you know.” At least, that’s what I used to say. Now I can’t help but feel tawdry and cheap when people think I’m interesting, because the truth of the matter is my life pales in comparison to that of the befuddled campus freak discussed in earlier issues of the Davidsonian.

I know, you’re probably already planning on skipping the rest of this article, saying to yourself, “It’s another trip into the world of the campus freak. Someone couldn’t come up with a decent Op-Ed article topic, so they’re swiping someone else’s.” Perhaps that’s true, but I’m going to do it anyway. You see, I’ve met the campus freak, I’ve seen him in action, and I’ve even talked to him before. The campus freak is not just a campus freak. He happens to be more expansive and enterprising than that. He’s managed to secure a firm grip on the title of the greater Davidson-Cornelius-Huntersville area freak. This guy shares the wealth. He can be found on Sunday afternoons biking around Cornelius accosting many fine Lake Norman citizens as they rush from Harris Teeter to their respective Range Rovers. He’s the Harris Teeter freak, he’s the Hickory Hams freak, and most importantly, he’s the Taco Bell freak.

Personally, I’d rather have the guy threaten to kick my ass at Taco Bell than on Richardson Field. Taco Bell’s at least got a drive-thru lane. No one’s ever going to mess with us. This past Sunday afternoon. At least, I think I talked to him. He may have been talking to himself while looking at me. He also kept swatting at flies around his face that weren't there. The important thing is that he and I made eye contact. A frightening amount of eye contact. I looked freakhood in the face, and it scared me. This guy is dangerous. He could seriously harm someone someday — someone like you. That’s right, you, the guy in the khakis and the baseball hat.

As students at a small conservative school, we only have one option left to us to protect ourselves: vigilante justice. That’s right, I’m calling out to any interested students to help me start my own defensive task force bent on taking the law into our own hands and viciously protecting the proud heritage of our old Alma Mater. Got a baseball bat? Great. Got a pillowcase full of doorknobs or a crowbar? Come to me, join me, and we will show anyone crazy enough to set foot on this campus that we mean business. Think of it, coordinated squads of vigilante college students with homemade weapons and memories of organic chemistry tests fueling the vengeful fires of vigilante justice.

Side note, this would also finally give me the chance to establish a club sport at Davidson that I can play: mayhem. We’re already way behind in the season against schools like Washington & Lee and Sewanee. They’ve already hospitalized three trespassers this semester between the two of them. But I’m confident that with the bright, angry students we have on this campus we can more than make up for a late start. If you are interested in forming a squad with me, talk to me. But don’t ask me about being dynamic and intriguing. Because I’m fresh out of Mentos.

A study: Human suffering at Davidson

Have you ever wondered what happens to the human mind when one doesn’t sleep for several days? I know for a fact that the results can be downright ugly, and I’m sure most other upperclassmen would agree. I believe my longest stretch of sleeplessness (please excuse me while I reminisce) occurred the first semester of my freshman year. For some reason, I had landed myself in a 300-level anthropology class with no prior knowledge of culture, society, etc. Hell, I’m from Nevada — some unpopulated desert for all you care. Anyway, I managed to pry my eyelids apart for 55 straight hours for this class to prepare a paper and presentation I had to give. I vaguely remember falling over in the grass in a spasm of dizziness after I had turned in that sucker — late, I might add.

Does any justifiable reason exist at all for anyone to subject themselves to this kind of torture? Should one risk bodily damage for intellectual gratification? At Davidson, the answer to this question is yes. The students at this institution seem to thrive on masochistic martyrdom. And you know, that’s where this whole “daving” thing originates from. When someone asks you how your work is going, you and I both say: “Man, I’m screwed. I can’t believe that I have 27 papers due this week.” OK, maybe 27 is a bit of an exaggeration, but that’s exactly the point. You see, the very beauty of “daving” stems from its blatant use of hyperbole. We embellish the weight of our course loads because we harbor a strange desire to wallow in self-pity. In other words, Davidson students baste themselves repeatedly before voluntarily jumping into the oven. Does that make sense? (I can’t believe I just wrote that. Man, I must be tired.)

This article is meant to explore the hype behind the hyperbole. Somebody has to do it, and I might as well be the one. In simple, unscientific terms, I have just completed an experiment that adequately depicts the state of several sleep-deprived Davidson students. Sure, you tell your friends that you didn’t get any rest last night, but do you have any hard evidence? This week just happened to be a doozy for me and my three roommates, so I volunteered the four of us to be the subjects of my study, one that will prove once and for all that inhuman suffering does in fact exist here at Davidson. Hart 303, as you will soon see, turned out to be the perfect laboratory. The following excerpts are taken from the aforesaid apartment’s journal:

Lunch-induced erection: “I ate some tomato soup and a grilled cheese, and then I got an erection,” he says. “It was neat.” Is there any better definition of insanity? In order to justify the irrational behavior of that night, let me introduce to you the statistics I accumulated during my study. The following numbers indicate the number of hours of sleep during a particular night. Rob got five hours of sleep the night of Sept. 21, five Sept. 22, and fifteen minutes Sept. 23. Howary got two-and-a-half hours Sept. 21, three Sept. 22, and a whopping five Sept. 23. Gant got two Sept. 21, five Sept. 22, and three hours and 45 minutes Sept. 23.Finally, W.C. got two-and-a-half hours Sept. 21, five Sept. 22, and four hours and 15 minutes Sept. 23. An analysis of these figures is indeed frightening. Over a three-day period, the four morons of Hart 303 slept a combined 43 hours. On average, that’s 3.58 hours of sleep per person per night. If you take the healthy man’s required sleep total to be approximately eight hours a night, then Rob, Howary, Gant, and W.C. should have slept a total of 96 hours over the three days. However, Hart 303 has outdone themselves with a grand total of 43. That’s only 44 percent of the recommended daily allowance. What, then, are the far-reaching implications of this study? I can think of only one. We, as masochistic Davidson students, deserve to complain and hyperbolize as much as we want. Why? Because we're tired and ornery. So next time someone asks you to describe your workload to them, don’t be afraid to exaggerate. Say you are going crazy — because you probably are. At Davidson, such an exaggeration isn’t all that far from the truth.

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1997 —

In past articles of mine, I have sought to unite students by leading an assault on the evil deeds of others. From the Gates of Doom to the Pulper to the Antichrist, I am proud of the hard work you have all done. We are now much closer to cracking the code, getting glasses back in the Commons, and we have, inevitably, gotten closer to the end of the world. This week, instead of pointing the finger at others, I propose we look at the evil within — ourselves. Lately, in my constant effort to unite the campus community, I have noticed that the honeymoon is over. The relaxed, carefree feeling that most students have at the beginning of the year has given way to the stress and anxiety of papers and tests. When informing others of fun, uniting events on campus, I usually heard these soul-chilling words: “Sorry, I’m too busy.” I'll be the first to admit that I’ve said these words myself, but THIS IS EVIL! No matter how busy we are, we must publicly make time to have fun with others. Everyone is busy and everyone has a lot of work to do at one time or another. That’s just the way Davidson is. But we must fight the tendency to become so self-involved that we no longer relate to other members of our Davidson family. There is much more to a “well-rounded” college experience than academics. Listen to yourself this week, and note how many times you hear yourself turn down fun interaction with your peers for work. We must make time! We must have fun! Students must unite!

Two approaching events at the Union for which I hope students will make time are Disco Night and the Wailing Wall. Disco Night, every other Thursday at 10 p.m., is the perfect place to have fun and relax. Imagine flashing multicolor lights, strobes, fog, and some pumping bass, and you have Disco Night. No matter how busy you are on a Thursday night, you can come to the Union, and after grabbing something to eat at the Cafe, go upstairs and dance your cares away. The bar is always open for those who may just want to have a drink, sit and talk, and listen to some good music. Whether you stay for 10 minutes or an hour and a half, Disco Night is there for you to relax, have fun, and meet other students.

The Wailing Wall will be a conversation board that will soon be installed in the Union. The idea for the wall emerged through an unpleasant incident last year with the Alcohol Awareness Graffiti Board in the Union Gallery. Through this experience and my conversations with students afterward, I learned that there are many opinions — healthy and unhealthy — that students are unable to express because a medium for the sort of expression does not exist. I found that there is no consistent public forum for opinions that do not constitute an op-ed piece in the Davidsonian, but still deserve to be expressed. I believe that open communication is necessary for a healthy college and student body, and the Wailing Wall is my answer to this need. It will serve as a place for students to vent — in a constructive manner, mind you — about issues of concern. It will be a place to ask questions and get answers, to learn from others and learn about oneself. The Wailing Wall will be located in the TV lounge on the right wall just inside the door. It will be separated into three sections: campus issues, community (local, national, and global) issues, and miscellaneous concerns. Look out for more information about the wall in the weeks ahead. I'm very excited about it, and I hope you will be, too.

As always, come to the Union, the place where all God’s children are welcome and none are excluded. Express your opinion on the Wailing Wall, dance at Disco Night, drink some coffee, and see a movie. Have fun, talk, and relax with your friends, old and new. Do your work later.

To submit letters to the editor, please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably in WordPerfect. Keep all submissions under 400 words. Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Thursday at 6 p.m. Or e-mail any submissions to Editor in Chief Michael Kruse at mikruse@davidson.edu. The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions as space requirements mandate.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Advertising rates are available upon request. Subscriptions cost $40 per year. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.