6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 7, 1997

FLAG searching for leadership, direction for future

from page 1

it was like to have been a “closet” gay at Davidson a few years ago. Organizing the event may prove to be difficult, since the active membership of FLAG is low right now. Hansard says that of the 42 people who claim to be members, only about eight show up for meetings every week.

The low membership is a bit perplexing, considering that attendance at FLAG-sponsored events, including the FLAG Fashion show and a speaker on gay marriages, has been quite high. Approximately 400 students attended the fashion show and about 90 showed up for the speaker. Hansard doesn’t understand why members have become inactive, but hopes that it is because they are busy with other activities and not because they are dissatisfied with FLAG for some reason. She says that she and another FLAG member plan to call each member individually, asking if FLAG went wrong somewhere.

With membership so low, there has been some concern that FLAG might not be around next year at all. Hansard indicates that one of the topics of discussion at FLAG meetings is whether or not to bother petitioning the Activities Tax Council for funds. She says that she will be abroad in the fall and that a good portion of active members will be graduating this year. The group is currently trying to figure out who, if anyone, will take over for 1997-98. No one has volunteered to lead the homosexuality portion of PE 101 in the Fall and there are few members who have shown an interest in FLAG leadership next year.

Of FLAG’s decimation, Knight says, “I’m definitely worried about it. It is a possibility.” For his own part, Knight dropped out of the leadership of FLAG for a number of reasons. Time constraints were part of the difficulties he faced, but he cited a general “attitude of apathy” as the main reason he chose to take a back seat in the organization this semester. He said that getting help from FLAG members in setting up for, running, and clearing events was like “pulling teeth.”

Knight adds that chairmanship of FLAG is more than just a technical or social position, but also has a sizeable political portion. Preferring a more personal, informal style, he was never quite comfortable with that aspect of the position. Hansard, on the other hand, says, “I would like to see FLAG become more political.” FLAG’s purpose is to educate people and make them more aware of gay concerns and issues. Hansard indicates that, contrary to popular belief, there is still room to increase understanding of homosexuality on campus. She says that openly gay students are often stared at and ridiculed. They also have to deal with presumptuous students who assume that every time a homosexual greets someone of the same sex, a pass is being made and that every same-sex friend of theirs is actually their boyfriend or girlfriend.

By Ann Cup
News Editor

Dr. Zoran Kuzmanovich, associate professor of English, began editing Nabokov Studies, an international journal devoted to the work of writer Vladimir Nabokov, in 1996. The journal publishes 400 volumes annually with readership as widespread as Japan, New Zealand, Iceland, Israel, Russia, and Europe. Other Davidson professors and students participate in the process. Associate German professor Scott Denham is Associate Editor, junior Matthew Eirich is Managing Editor, and sophomore Jason McMullan and Faculty Assistant for the English and History departments Ann Douglas are editorial assistants. Davidson is recognized in the journal as a primary supporter of their effort. “Bringing the journal to Davidsonis very beneficial for the faculty and students who have the opportunity to work on it and for the College to have its name attached to an international scholarly journal,” says Eirich.

Vladimir Nabokov fled Russia during the Russian Revolution. He spent the 1920s and 30s in exile in Germany and France, finally coming to the US in 1940 to teach at Cornell University. Nabokov is recognized as one of the foremost prose writers in Russian and English of the twentieth century.

Bergman makes case for affirmative action
By NARESH NAGELLA
Associate News Editor

The sixth annual Cornelson Distinguished Lecturer Dr. Barbara Bergman of American University in Washington D.C. gave a talk regarding affirmative action on March 25. The lecture is brought to Davidson by the Economics Department. Bergman was the former president of the American Association of Professors and Vice President of the American Economic Association. Clark Ross, chairman of the Economics Department, praised her for the lasting value of her economic analyses and for her conviction to the belief that “we are all created equally and should have equal opportunities” in his introductory remarks.

Bergman is best known for her books and scholarly analyses which defend affirmative action policies. Her talk focused on highlighting the mistakes and weaknesses in more popular arguments against affirmative action. She used an example of a restaurant that ran an ad featuring their wait staff—all 38 of them white males. She called the restaurant to find out why the restaurant followed those hiring practices. The response was that it was unintentional and that their workers were productive and pleasing to the customers.

Bergman stated that this response is common in firms who do not follow affirmative action policies, stating, “The excuse of pleasing customers and maximizing profits should not be a justification for not hiring women or minorities but may be the true reasons for why they do not get hired.” She then turned to why it is so hard for women and minorities to ensure their merit and credentials give them appropriate jobs, since the Civil Rights Act can only be enforced through a lawsuit. “These lawsuits can take one to two decades to finish and most people hurt by this behavior do not know why they were discriminated,” says Bergman. “And, there is much social science research that suggests when people hire they do notice people’s sex and race.”

Bergman then gave her views on a Supreme Court decision on the issue regarding a New Jersey case where a teacher had to be let go and where it had to be either a white or black teacher of “equal merit” that got fired. The black teacher was kept since the school felt that it would be better for the students to have diversity in their teachers. The white teacher sued saying her race was used against her to reach the decision. “[The white teacher] is right. But, they could have thought about other measures to find differences or aspects of merit like forcing the teachers to take an English test or comparing the teacher’s attendance numbers,” says Bergman. “There are values in diversity that could be more important even if the white teacher was more merit worthy. That is what affirmative action is all about and it is regrettable but not as regrettable as what the situation is like for blacks and women.”

Overall she left the audience to determine when “diversity can be a value that can trump merit.” She believes our country cannot come together otherwise, for she states, “If we are to get out of our present situation of separation we need these policies.”

Interim Board of Trustees Chairman Olin Nisbet was referred to as Olin Nesbit in the March 24 issue of The Davidsonian. The Editors regret the error.