Swimming been here.” Schnell the 500 freestyle. Volleyball ° Fighting Christians. Junior Sarah Covell said. Contributing: Chris Tuttle, Davidson Sports
Information, staff reports.

Volleyball squad posts two wins, preps for SCT

Both the men’s and women’s swimming and diving teams lost at East Carolina in a dual meet Saturday, but coach
Rich DeSelm called the teams’ effort “one of the best meets we’ve had since I’ve been here.” The men won
four events, as Wildcat male swimmer-of-the-meet Terry Dolch claimed victories in the 100- and 200-yard backstroke. Adam Kennedy won the
1,000 freestyle and Freddy Schnell the 500 freestyle.

The women were winners in five events. Britta Toleman was named female swimmer-of-the-meet by DeSelm after shattering the school record
with a time of 1:08.28 in the 100 breaststroke. Mary Shell Brosche, Beth Wilson, Mary Noel George, and Elissa Weddle
combined to take the 200 medley relay. Kathleen Paffenroth, Weddle, and Brosche also posted individual victories. Rookie diver Christa Conner
won the one-meter dive with a score of 234.00.

The volleyball team won two games this week in preparation for this weekend’s Southern Conference tournament in Statesboro, Ga. Elon
was no match for the Wildcats Friday night at Elon, as Davidson rebounded from a sluggish start to record a
10-15, 15-8, 15-10, 15-13 victory. Four Wildcats — Mara Mordini, Janet Duncan, Brooke Bentley, and Cindy Seegers — registered double-doubles
in the win over Elon.

On Saturday, Davidson sandwiched a blowout in between two tight games in a 16-14, 15-1, 15-13 home victory against Georgia
Southern. Seniors Lois Ann Bumgarner and Cindy Seegers were honored in a pregame ceremony for their four years of commitment
to the Wildcat program. “L.A. and Cindy have been great examples for all of us, at work ethic, dedication, and
heart,” said junior Sarah Covell.

WILDCAT TENNIS
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1997

Harriers run at Regionals
By Bratton Holmes
Staff Writer

The men’s and women’s cross-country teams concluded their seasons this Saturday at the NCAA Region III Championship in Greenville, S.C.
The results of the teams’ efforts are deceptive due to the fact that the competition consisted mostly of scholarship schools.
The men finished 27th out of 29 teams in this 10-kilometer race, their only such race of the season. Davidson
entered five runners in the race: Brent Ferrell, William Isenhour, Thomas McElveen, Pat Burchett, and Tim O’Keefe. The runners consisted
of one freshman, three sophomores, and a senior. The absence of freshman phenom Neil Burt explains why Davidson’s top five
did not consist of all underclassmen, as it traditionally has this season. Ferrell finished 129th of 202 runners in the
race with a time of 33:47, and was once again the top runner for the Wildcats. The Wildcats finished close
behind conference rivals VMI and the Citadel. With Burt in the race, the team would have closed in on and
possibly passed these two teams in the race. Coach Gary Andrew, though admitting that the finish looks bad on paper,
is still satisfied with the team’s effort. Seniors Tim O’Keefe and Tripp Franklin — who was injured for nearly the
entire season — are the only runners the team will lose.

By Jay Cantrell
Sports Editor

The men’s tennis team started off the fall season right where they left off last year — at the top
of the conference. Last year’s team went undefeated during the regular season before finishing second in the league tourney by
a single point. The Wildcats lost only one starter from that squad, putting them in immediate contention for this season.
“This is the first year we have all three doubles teams returning intact,” coach Jeff Frank said. Two of those
teams won league championships. On the singles side, there is only one opening after the graduation of the No. 4
seed Derek Schulze. That spot could be filled by a number of players including senior Judson Sutherland, junior Scott Briggs,
and freshmen Billy Boykin, Chad Phillips, and Whit Hansen. “I would feel confident playing any of them at six,” Frank
said. “They have done well in the dual matches and in the round robin matches against each other.” “My biggest
problem,” he added, “will be getting everyone match experience.” But that is a good problem to have. The team returns
conference champions Brett Ialacci (No. 3 singles), Alex Okulski (No. 6 singles), Sutherland and Ted Kaplan (No. 1 doubles), and
Jeff Tonidandel and Tyler Epp (No. 3 doubles).

After a 3-8 start to open the 1997 slate, the Wildcats strung together 11 wins in a row prior to
the league tournament. “We sort of took off late in the season,” Frank said. “This year we’re not going to
sneak up on anybody. We’re the Green Bay of Southern Conference men’s tennis.”

Pastel in tip-top form

If that is true, then the Brett Favre of the team is two-time conference champion Jon Pastel. All signs point
to a strong senior campaign for the captain from Old Lyme, Conn. “Jon has had a very good fall,” Frank
said. He has also led the team by example. “A lot of it is his work ethic,” Frank said of
his leadership. “He works so hard that he sort of shames everyone else into working just as hard as he
does.” Pastel and fellow captains Kaplan and Tonidandel have led intense conditioning drills as well this fall. On the court,
Pastel’s best performance was at the UNC Invitational in Chapel Hill earlier this season.

Pastel, men’s squad looking strong

A strong core of underclassmen paired with the return of medical redshirt Josh Cookson bode well for the men’s squad
next year. The women’s team completed a season that pleased both the players and coaches. The team jumped from last
in the conference last season to sixth of 10 schools this fall. In the Regional meet, their improvement was again
evident, as theWildcats jumped from 30th of 31 teams last season to 24th this year. Davidson defeated several larger, scholarship
schools such as Old Dominion, College of Charleston, and UNC Greensboro, all of which have traditionally defeated Davidson in past
Regional action. Suzy Burr once again finished first for the Wildcats. Rookie Smyth Bitter had probably the best day of
anyone on the team and finished second, her best result of the season. Allie Curran, Jill Neumayer, and Clare Frey
rounded out the top five for Davidson. Also entered in the race were co-captain Kelly Keifer and Beth Brewster. Coach
Thomas Cayson was satisfied with the team’s efforts in Greenville, as well as with the entire season. He stated that
the team accomplished more than he thought would be possible. The future is bright for the women’s team, which will
be returning all but one member of the team, and will be retaining all of their depth up to the
eighth or ninth spot.

Women’s team showing steady improvement

Strange new rule eliminates service lets

He defeated Ryan Sacchire, the No. 1 player from Notre Dame, to win one of the top two singles flights.
Sacchire was ranked 25th in the nation, which will certainly improve Pastel’s national status. “I think he will have a
good sectional ranking and a strong national ranking,” Frank predicted. Davidson’s opposition included Notre Dame, Duke, William and Mary, UNC,
and Michigan. Four of those teams were ranked in the nation’s top 25.

Blue-Gray highlights slate

Playing tough competition has always been one ingredient to Frank’s success. This year’s schedule will be no different. Davidson’s biggest
event will be the Blue-Gray Invitational in Montgomery, Ala., March 19-21. That field will feature three of the top teams
in the nation. “It is a once-in-a-lifetime chance,” Frank said of the event, “especially in Jon’s senior year. He deserves
that opportunity.”

A new rule should spice up the action this spring. In an attempt to curb cheating and speed up play,
Division I men’s tennis will not have service lets. “It’s a strange rule,” Frank said. “The kids are adjusting better
than the coaches.” The new rule means that a serve that hits the net and barely rolls over will now
be an ace if it can’t be returned. It also sets up a virtual overhead for the returner if the
ball takes a high bounce off the net. “It certainly does make it exciting,” Frank said.

By Jay Cantrell
Sports Editor

The fall season has given the women’s tennis team a target for next spring: East Tennessee St. The Wildcats met
the Buccaneers in two of their three tournaments this fall. The Bucs have bolstered their lineup with three foreign players.
“ETSU will be the leader,” Wildcat coach Caroline Price said. But the Wildcats have some new faces as well. “Two
strong freshmen have emerged for us,” Price said of Kristin Koenig and Brenna Tindall. Koenig, a Shelby, N.C., native, has
had an immediate impact by jumping into the No. 2 singles spot. She made it to the finals of a
tournament at Washington and Lee earlier this fall. “She will be a strong candidate for freshman of the year,” Price
said. Tindall has played in both the No. 5 and No. 6 positions. “Brenna has had an outstanding fall,” Price
said of the freshman from Fort Collins, Colo. Tindall will challenge juniors Claire Cheatwood and Clara Marks for a starting
job when they return from their studies abroad. In their absence, senior Lynne Shore was forced to move up to
the fourth singles position. Shore will most likely play No. 6 in the spring. “I have tremendous experience at six
with Lynne,” Price said. Shore won the conference championship last season at No. 6. This year, she and fellow senior
Creecy Chandler are the captains. The top of the singles lineup will include returning No. 1 player Dana Casner. Koenig
will play No. 2, followed by Amber Bradford at No. 3. The doubles lineup is still somewhat of a mystery.
“It really is wide open at two-and-three,” Price said. Casner and Koenig will join forces at No. 1. Price will
experiment with several possible combinations for Nos. 2 and 3.

Casner, Koenig stand out

The first tournament for the Wildcats this fall was at the North Carolina St. Invitational. Casner finished fourth after losing
to the top player from Rice, who was the No. 1 seed in the draw. “She lost that in a
solid match,” Price said. Koenig was in the same draw as Casner, and she finished right behind her teammate in
fifth place. The next stop was at Virginia Tech, where Casner finished third. “We were able to see a lot
more Southern Conference members,” Price said of the event at Blacksburg, Va. “That allowed us to get an early read
(for the spring).” The conference champion will likely come from a pool of teams including ETSU, Chattanooga, Furman, Georgia Southern,
and Davidson. Marshall will not be able to defend their title because the Thundering Herd left the league to compete
in the Mid-American Conference. “Our challenge is to perform consistently,” Price said. “We have to have all six singles and
all three doubles teams performing consistently at a high level.” The third tournament was the most successful for the top
two Wildcats, with Casner again finishing in the top four, and Koenig advancing to the finals. “It allowed us to
continue to work against ETSU,” Price said. “Kristin lost in a strong performance against ETSU’s No. 1 player.” The team
will jump right into competition next semester. The Wildcats open the season in Atlanta the weekend of Feb. 3 against
Georgia Tech and Tulane. The conference championships will be played in April.
