THE DAVIDSONIAN

For equality’s sake, women should have the opportunity

Last Thursday we had a good old CCRL meeting. CCRL stands for Council on Campus and Religious Life, and it
makes recommendations to the president about certain issues. We discussed sororities and their possible existence on Davidson’s campus. The committee
is made up of a couple of administrators, a few more faculty, and students, holding the majority. Three people came
to speak on behalf of sororities at Davidson, and I'll try to state some of the big reasons.

The women that were presenting the sororities to us are in eating houses, and since eating houses have about a
million women in them, it is hard to have true friendships with all of the women. It’s even hard to
know all of their names. You have this sort of a situation in comparison to the male situation, that of
fraternities. Fraternities may consist of 20 to 100 brothers. I think my house has 50 or so, and even though
we don’t know everything about every single person in the house, we do know something about them and there is,
in some respects, a more tight-knit community among fraternities than in eating houses. Sororities here would give the women who
want to participate in them the possibility to know everyone in their house. I only know girls that are in
sororities at Clemson, but there the sororities are as big or bigger than the eating houses here. So there is
a need for a tighter community among women on campus. Ergo...sorority.

Another thing brought up is the fact that there are secret rituals and such that only the women in those
sororities would know about, understand, and be a part of. This is a stronger reason for having sororities. There are
some things that are common to all sororities all over the country, just as there are some aspects of a
fraternity that are common to all other fraternities under that name. With this closeness and secrecy, you have a bit
of a bond, even with someone you don’t know. Because they were a Tri-Delt at Chapel Hill and you were
a Tri-Delt at Davidson, you are therefore sisters. So those that want to be in a sorority want that bond
that supersedes college, gives you contacts and one-ups in the outside world, and wants national recognition of an affiliation much
bigger than the name Rusk, Warner Hall, or Connor. Ergo...sorority.

I want to give you my opinion now. Fraternities have been here for a long time, and they are without
a doubt a tradition at Davidson. Many can argue that they break up the campus, that they stand for nothing
but exclusiveness and all that jazz, that they disrupt the academic setting at Davidson, and that they are all-around bad
and should be abolished. There are facets of exclusivity with fraternities — people can only join a house after the
house accepts them, and that’s a hell of a downer if they don’t accept you. That’s exclusive and unfair. And
particularly for a place like Davidson, with only 1600 kids, exclusivity can really tear the campus. The thing is though,
that only through exclusivity can you get to know anyone.

Everyone has exclusive groups of friends. You may be open to other people, you may even try to welcome other
people into your cliques or non-cliques or open circles or pow-wows or whatever. But the fact is very unique to
Davidson: that for a lot of the time, people that aren’t affiliated with a house can go to that house,
can drink the beer from that house, can dance at that house, can wreck that house and do whatever. At
other places they won’t even let you in the door unless some bouncer with some guest list lets you in.
I hope that type of exclusivity doesn’t occur at Davidson in the future, but as of right now, it really
doesn’t outside of date functions.

Now back to sororities. If they come on campus, they might break the tradition of eating houses, they might even
break up the eating houses. They’re exclusive, and they’re, just like everywhere else, sororities. But — and this is a
big but with all of the tradition and the superseding tradition, and with all of the faculty that despise the
idea of having another institution that takes away from precious study time, and with the exclusivity, I say that the
women of this campus ought to be able to do what they want. The same system stands for men. So
if equality to the other half of society is asked for by the women of Davidson, then they have a
right to that equality.

Sororities: the end of self-selection?

Self-selection. When a prospective Davidson female hears this about our social life and finds out that self-selection really is self-selection,
all sorts of thoughts pop into her head — primarily “no social pressure.” With all incoming freshmen have to worry
about, for females the lack of stress over getting into the house of her choice is just another Davidson comfort.
Until this year, it was something we prided ourselves on having around forever. In the past few weeks articles in
the Davidsonian have shed light on the susceptibility of self-selection. In his letter to the editor two weeks ago, Mike
Daly pointed out that regardless of what anyone says on a tour, the process of joining a fraternity cannot truly
be labeled self-selection. It’s pretty obvious that self-selection and the Greek system do not mix. This system only exists as
a realityin eating houses, and this is the only place where it will ever truly exist. Last week’s article concerning
sororities exposed other threats that the coming of sororities pose to self-selection. Why do we really need sororities? What can
they provide us that eating houses do not or could not give us?

In last week’s issue of the Davidsonian, Jim Barber, Patterson Court Advisor, provided three advantages that he thought sororities would
bring. Two of these, bringing speakers to campus as well as improving “inter-eating house” relations, are already available to women
through the present system. As we see it, the only thing that sororities can offer a woman at Davidson that
eating houses cannot is a national affiliation. A national affiliation with a sorority is not going to get a Davidson
graduate a job; a Davidson degree will. Is that advantage—if you want to call it that—worth risking and/or sacrificing our
self-selection process?

Finally, and most importantly, the arrival of sororities not only threatens the self-selection process but also the existence of the
eating houses themselves. How long will it be before sororities start demanding the right to be integrated into Patterson Court
and occupy a house? What about 10 years down the road? Say you are a young woman getting ready to
attend your first year at Davidson. They have sororities and eating houses. You’ve never heard of eating houses, but all
of your high school friends are in sororities. When you do join a sorority here at Davidson, you realize that
it is nothing like what your friends at other colleges are involved in—no houses, no parties, no rushing. The tradition
of eating houses has been slowly fading for years; there is no one left around from the good old days
when eating houses were it, to defend their rightful place as the finest social option for women at Davidson or
anywhere else for that matter. You don’t know that eating houses once provided a better, less stressful, more friendly, and
relaxed alternative to sororities. All you know is that you want your sorority to be like your best friends at
Chapel Hill. So you gather up support and you fight for the right of your sorority to have all of
the privileges that sororities at other schools have. And you win. And sororities take over Patterson Court and eating houses
become obsolete along with self-selection. Who needed that anyway? What a terrible loss of a system so unique to Davidson
College.

You say that won’t happen. But when we asked Jim Barber about this, he could not tell us that this
would not be the scenario sometime in the near future. In other words, there are no guarantees that this won't
happen. So is it worth risking such a unique and beneficial system as self-selection? For what? How are we as
a college community going to benefit? At what price? The price of self-selection?

Save the eating house

I was under the impression that sororities were definitely going to come to Davidson this spring. That is the message
I was given by Jim Barber, the new Patterson Court Council advisor, at Residence Life training in August. It is
what I read in the article “Coming Soon: Sororities at Davidson” in the Sept. 15 issue of the Davidsonian. And
it is certainly the impression I got at the Sept. 23 Self-Selection meeting that all freshman women and hall counselors
were required to attend. No wonder I was surprised when a member of the Campus Committee for Religious Life told
me just a few days before Jessica Goodson’s article was published in the Davidsonian that sororities will not necessarily be
at Davidson this spring. I had been convinced that sororities were coming and that there was nothing I could do
to stop them, even though the overwhelming majority of women I have talked to about this issue do not want
sororities at Davidson.

I am not against sororities. They can be very positive organizations that definitely have their place as part of the
college experience. But I do not believe that sororities belong at Davidson. Davidson’s eating house system, despite its problems, currently
provides an alternative to the sorority systems at so many other colleges. When I was looking at schools, I was
not sure whether I would want to be in a sorority or not. Davidson gave me the opportunity to become
part of a similar organization without the stress of rushing and pledging. Adding this stress to Davidson women’s life concerns
me. Sororities will force all interested women to wonder if they are good enough to be chosen. Will sororities at
Davidson rank looks—officially or not—among the criteria used to select members as so many sororities do? Isn’t there already enough
pressure on this campus to look good and fit in? Do we want more women to develop eating disorders than
the one in five who already have them on this campus? Sororities at Davidson? No.

One argument for sororities is that eating houses have become too large to allow the close relationships that sororities would
foster. I would like to point out that there is an eating house that is currently smaller than some of
Davidson’s fraternities. While the size of all houses does fluctuate—and this house has not always been the small one—there traditionally
have been small eating houses on the Court. It frustrates me every time I hear that sororities will not replace
eating houses. How could they, I’ve been told over and over, if rush does not take place until after self-selection
and sororities do not have houses? But what if an eating house had to close down? It happened to Spenser
House only six years ago. Would a sorority then be able to move into the empty house? It would be
much more convenient to let an already existing group with national ties move in than to establish an entirely new
eating house. And eating houses would become a thing of the past.

The entire Court would change dramatically with sororities on campus in any form. Therefore, those of us who cherish the
eating house system already in place do have the right to fight against the minority pushing for sororities. Bringing sororities
to Davidson would not add an option for women but would take away an important part of our school.
