6 THE DAVIDSONIAN ELSEWHERE MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1997

Term limits and campaign reform undergo setbacks

A key measure of the Republican “Contract with America” that also had wide public support did not get past the
House last week as the constitutional amendment to impose term limits lost on a 217-211 vote. The vote needed 69
more supporters to get the 2/3 majority required for Constitutional amendments. The amendment was to prevent anyone from serving more
than 12 years in the House or the Senate, although someone could serve 24 years in both chambers.

Representative Bill McCollum (R-Fl.) said that the limits were needed because too much power was vested in the hands of
the few, most members got re-elected and “careerism does affect too many congresspeople.” Representative John Dingell (D.-Mich.) was against the
proposal saying, “Our existing system of term limits works splendidly - it is called elections.” He cites the loss of
Democratic control of Congress and the fact that 54% of current House members were elected after 1992 as evidence for
why the limits are unnecessary.

Term limits have been passed as laws in various states, but courts have struck down their efficacy at the federal
level. Many decided on an electoral basis in which states that did not have term limits would be at an
advantage to those who did have them because the former state’s representatives could serve longer and dominate key leadership positions
on the basis of seniority. A Constitutional amendment would be needed for any such term limits on the U.S. House
or Senate. The Constitution does limit the President to two terms.

Supporters do state that imposing term limits would put Congress back in touch with the people. But, opponents indicate that
many great statesmen could be denied the opportunity to let their experience and talent lead the nation.

Source: New York Times

Campaign finance reform suffers

Another reform-oriented plan that will change the way elections are run in this country is facing trouble. Campaign finance reform
now faces the trouble of being forgotten or mired in the law-making process. President Clinton pledged in his 1993 Inaugural
address to give the people back their government through substantive reform initiatives, but since then no laws or reform changes
have been announced.

The President supports the McCain-Feingold bill which would ban all soft money donations to political parties and would seriously restrict
much Public Action Committee operations. However, that bill has between 20-30 supporters in the Senate. John McCain is an Arizona
Republican and Russ Feingold is a Wisconsin Democrat.

The problem is that it will be hard to get any kind of consensus on campaign finance reform. Democrats want
more publicly funded elections, mandated by law or Constitutional amendment. They believe that government will be accountable only to the
people and no one else. Republicans are not willing to support any such initiative. They want stricter regulation and more
public knowledge of the way fund raising is done now. They also believe that term limits will help push the
public’s voice more than campaign finance reform will.

Still, the McCain-Feingold bill remains publicly popular and its supporters insist public pressure will be the best chance it has
to get passed. Common Cause is trying to gather 1,776,000 petition signatures that will support the bill. Soon, commercials are
planned to enhance the message further and to highlight to the public which of their representatives do or do not
support the bill.

Meanwhile, both parties continue to hold million-dollar fundraisers and take in large contributions. Both say that it would be strategically
wrong to stop taking in money and risking losing elections in 1998. Clearly, the law will have to be passed
before any changes take place.

Source: New York Times

By TRIBUNE MEDIA SERVICESFAAS SSBARAASD! AS if a 5 X oS ZZ 14-7T-H Che F)auid: Beyond Da sONTAN International...

Clinton and Netanyahu meet

President Clinton and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu talked in Washington as the President praised Netanyahu’s performance in office and
urged him to begin talks with Syria. He also stressed that he believes Netanyahu will continue to press the peace
process begun by his predecessors. Netanyahu indicated that he will consider many of the President’s requests but that he wants
to see demands and concessions from Syria also.

National...

European Union decides to wait on challenging Cuba policy

The State Department said it was “disappointed” that the European Union did not completely issue a legal challenge against U.S.-Cuba
policy specifically due to the Helms-Burton Act that is designed to discourage foreign investment in the country.

Clinton orders negotiation between pilots and American

Using executive power to avert a strike, President Clinton ordered that the two feuding parties in the American Airlines labor
dispute allow a federal group to come up with a non-binding plan for the two sides to agree. The action
prevented some 240,000 travelers that use American each day from having to cancel or reroute their plans.

Dow Jones soars into record territory

The Dow Jones industrial index climbed into record territory as it ended the week at 7022.24. The amazing performance has
surprised even the most optimistic economists. Most of the financial world sees it as the result of investors’ strong belief
in the value of stocks. Inflation or a rise in the principal interest do not look to be arriving so
most stock watchers expect the growth to continue.

Sources: New York Times, Charlotte Observer

From President Clinton’s State of the Union address last week:

“Let’s work together to meet these goals: Every eight-year-old must be able to read, every 12-year-old must be able to
log on to the Internet, every 18-year-old must be able to go to college, and every adult American must be
able to keep on learning for a lifetime.”

And every President of the United States must be able to count to four. —Chronicle of Higher Education

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Ride a wave
5 Scrub
10 McEntire of music
14 Edible spread
15 Old Greek thinker
16 Arab VIP
17 Nullify
18 — free delivery
19 Conifer
20 Bakery items
22 Gives way
24 Crude dwelling
25 Pomes
26 Be against
29 Traverse
30 Haggard or Oberon
31 Actress Thomas
32 Evil
35 Like a desert
36 Tropical eel
37 Ice cream —
38 Opp. of pos.
39 Like many animals
40 List of candidates
41 Domineering
42 Full-page illustrations
47 First
52 Watched
53 Catts
55 City in Alaska
56 Dried out
57 A+ or B-, e.g.
58 Blissful place

DOWN
1 Bouillon
2 Secure
3 Fairy
4 Hint
5 Items for rowers
6 Actress Hagen
7 Short and fat
8 Repulses
9 Philippines
10 War god
13 Trick
21 — facto
23 Dress in finery
26 Arabian gulf
27 Father: Fr.
28 Straitlaced one
29 Tote
30 Poor grades
34 Wild horses
36 Musical instrument
37 Young standing
39 Hit
40 “Seven — for Seven Brothers”
41 Balanced
42 Check recipient
43 Sluggish
44 Quantity of food
46 Protuberance
47 — Khayyam
48 Perform again
49 — corner
50 Furnish
51 Curved line
