OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1997

Patterson Court is notorious for engendering unhealthy relationships between sexes, or at least for being perceived in this way. As some people might have it, Phi Delta Theta’s Ladies’ Night counteracts sexism with a revolutionary substitute: objectification of males. They say it is a night for the ladies, where they can indulge their desire to enjoy freedom from finding themselves the objects of men’s cravings. Better yet, they can partake of the process themselves. On Ladies’ Night, the ladies are in control and unhindered by their own objectification. Or are they?

The main point of this article is to show that Ladies’ Night is a sexist event. It might be more: it might be a sophisticated attempt to manipulate women. Even putting this aside, Ladies’ Night remains degrading and perverse. At first, the issue seems quite clear. Women are invited to an exclusive party and served plenty of alcohol. Sex becomes the dominant discourse. The course of action is plain: women, alcohol, suggestive dancing, bed. But things are not so straightforward. In fact, one argument to justify the party convinces many people. The party is not so much an attempt to entice women as it is a chance for women to objectify men. For one night, women turn the tables on men. That so many people are satisfied by this argument is the primary reason we chose to write this article.

Oppression is about control. At Ladies’ Night, the men are in control, which is what makes the party so thoroughly sexist. Are we supposed to think that the brothers of Phi Delt benevolently offer themselves as sacrifices for the cause of women’s liberation? Should we think that on this night the men voluntarily degrade themselves for the exultation, equalization, or even mere enjoyment of Davidson women? When the first party-goers receive “free gifts” of champagne, we are forced to be skeptical. We feel compelled to ask ourselves: for whose enjoyment is Ladies’ Night after all?

Reversing roles by letting women objectify men is far from a solution to the poor gender relations on this campus (and more globally). To make that claim is to disregard the social, economic, and cultural factors that contribute to women’s oppression. Even disregarding the charge of sexism made above, the party remains little more than a farce. The sort of male objectification that is supposed to be taking place cannot happen unless women are in control. And women cannot be in control until the other social, economic, and cultural factors that support patriarchy are either eradicated or radically reformed.

Women who attend Ladies’ Night have said the conditions since they are suspect. Women are provided with more than enough alcohol, and sexuality is an important feature of the party. Since the argument cannot justify these conditions (for the reasons spelled out above), then the party remains little more than an atmosphere conducive to date rape.

Finally, someone might point out that women come to Ladies’ Night voluntarily. If a person objects to the atmosphere at Phi Delt, then she can choose not to come. But those who do choose to come do so freely. Once again, this argument underestimates the various guises under which oppression appears. It is not just a matter of choosing or not choosing to participate in oppression, because it is a reality that encompasses and therefore blinds. However, there would be no Ladies’ Night without women, and so we must criticize those women who willingly participate in the party (aside from those who go out of curiosity). Because they do not question the reality of sexism in this context, they are not mere victims. Nonetheless, to claim that both the women and Phi Delt merit equal blame overlooks the fact that women are oppressed, not vice versa.

Our goal in this article has been to put to rest one common justification for Ladies’ Night. Other arguments might be procured to defend the idea that the party is not sexist, though we doubt that they will be successful. Our hope, however, is that this past excuse for having the party is one that will not be taken seriously in the future.

Double Standard

No doubt [President Clinton] has his new secretary, Madeleine Albright, whip up . . . a pot [of coffee] whenever he needs a pick-me-up.” This is a sentence that I wrote in my opinion article in the last issue of the Davidsonian, titled “The World of Coffee.” A female student called me a few nights after this issue came out and explained to me that I was a chauvinist, that I had horribly insulted the Secretary of State, Madeleine Albright, and offended all women at Davidson by reducing her to a “coffee brewer,” and that remarks like these are what perpetuate sexism.

The article was about coffee prices and the differences in coffee one encounters in Europe. I intended to impart a humorous tone in my article, since I was not dealing with a very serious subject. My attempts at humor can be found when I poke fun at the Commander-in-Chief’s incident with marijuana. I also tried to add to the humorous quality by saying that Madeleine Albright brought President Clinton his coffee. Why did I say this? Well, one of the stereotypical functions of secretaries is...to bring coffee for their bosses; Madeleine Albright is the Secretary of State, so I played on the word secretary in a pun-like manner. I am aware that the duties of the Secretary of State are very important to this country and do not include making coffee. I made this connection because of a political cartoon I saw in the Charlotte Observer on February 8. The cartoon uses two panels to juxtapose “Secretaries Then”—which depicts a woman behind a desk with a list of things to do which include making coffee, making lunch reservations, and picking up the boss’ laundry—and “Secretaries Now,” which presents Madeleine Albright and her one thing to do: make world peace. Finally, as my Politics of Feminism professor, Dr. Roberts, pointed out, the satirical element of this comment is plainly evident by the beginning of the sentence, “No doubt...,” suggesting that one should, in fact, doubt it. I meant no slight to women, Madeleine Albright, or even to Bill Clinton. I have great respect for the new Secretary of State and would never insult her. Madeleine Albright is a public figure, just like the President. Public figures are often targets of satire and jokes because people know who they are. I made fun of Bill Clinton, and yes, I referred to Madeleine Albright in a humorous manner. I do not see why what I said about Ms. Albright is any worse than what I said about Mr. Clinton. Yet I have received no complaints about what I said about the President. What this tells me is that it’s okay to make fun of men, but not women. I apologize if anybody, female or male, was offended by what I wrote—that was not in the least bit my intent. I do not apologize, however, for what I wrote. I do not believe it to be degrading to Madeleine Albright because I believe it was apparent that I was making a comedic statement. Nor do I believe it is offensive to women.

I was walking from my room in Sentelle over to one of my friend’s rooms in Belk on Monday evening, and as I passed by Cannon, I noticed three very colorful fliers taped to the glass on the front door. I went to take a closer look at the fliers and noticed that they were for a party for the upcoming weekend. I’m normally an easygoing person who doesn’t get riled up about much, but what I saw was just appalling. There was a picture of two men in a provocative position, another of a football player, and the third of a Calvin Klein ad.

Jeff Kessler and Brian Joyce
You Burn Your Bra, I'll Wear My G-String

Our house was packed with people, and everyone who came seemed to have a pretty good time. And to those people who didn’t come, those people who were probably the ones who tore down our fliers last year and this year, and who complained that it was some “double standard” and offensive to women... we don’t want you there anyway. It’s our prerogative if we want to take our clothes off in front of a group of women. If we want to “degrade” ourselves, and if you want to come and see it, then let’s do it.

This particular party consists of a male strip show followed by a normal dance party, so we wanted to add a picture to give the advertisements some character. We used a picture of two Phi Delts taken at our Beach Party earlier this year, a picture of a Phi Delt who transferred after his freshman year and was returning to visit, and a Calvin Klein underwear ad. If you find any one of these pictures offensive, you need to get out more. This campus is not rated G, and you are not five years old. In three years or less, you will be living on your own, away from the protection of your parents and peer panels. If you don’t agree with our fliers or you find them offensive, don’t look at them.

I don’t know who is responsible for this act, but I’d like to ask you, “Where do you get off destroying somebody else’s property?” Maybe you’re just a pyromaniac who can’t control what you light, and in that case, I hope you can get some treatment. Otherwise, I think a formal apology would be greatly appreciated to the gentlemen who took the time to make those fliers and put them up. My close friends spent several hours both designing and taping up those advertisements. And it was I who put them up last year and saw my work disappear before the sun rose the next morning. Well, guess what? You tore them down last year, and if you have a problem with our particular party, don’t come. If you don’t agree with our fliers or you find them offensive, don’t look at them. I heard about the wet T-shirt contest, and I saw some of the advertisements, but I didn’t want to go. I don’t care for most of the stuff that people put all over my hall or under my door or all over Chambers, but I don’t go and tear them down or burn them, because I have the decency to allow people freedom of speech. Those advertisements are to Davidson College. You’re not going to agree with everything in the world, and if you’re one of those “I want to make a difference” people, you can establish your “anti-everything-I-don’t-like” group and make your voice heard. However, even those groups have rules of conduct about the destruction of property, and those who don’t want to follow those rules can go to jail. To sum up, if you’re so damned concerned about an issue, don’t waste your time destroying our hard work, and don’t you dare show up at our party. Go save a forest or build a house.