**DAVIDSONIAN**

MONDAY, APRIL 28, 1997

Men’s tennis shooting for NCAA berth next year

By Jay CANTRELL
Staff Writer

After starting the season 3-8, it looked like men’s tennis coach Jeff Frank was headed for the first losing record
in his 25-year tenure at Davidson. But the Wildcats turned things around, winning their last 11 matches to finish 14-8
overall and 7-0 in the Southern Conference. That unblemished league record gave Davidson the regular season title and Frank conference
Coach-of-the-Year honors.

“They call it a coaches award,” he said yesterday. “But it’s really based on your team’s results. We came on
and beat some tough teams with much more experience.”

But next year, the Wildcats will have that experience. They lose only one senior, Derek Schulze, who played in the
No. 4 singles slot this season. All three doubles teams will return fully intact. Defending champion Furman loses two of
its seniors, as does East Tennessee St., which tied Davidson for second in last week’s tourney.

The constant in Davidson’s equation will be No. 1 singles star Jon Pastel, who was named Southern Conference Player-of-the-Year for
the second season in a row. “He’s got a good shot at doing it again next year,” said Frank.

The Wildcats will also return defending singles champions Brett Talacci and Alex Okulski. These freshmen had a huge impact on
this year’s team, and Frank thinks it could happen again next season. The Wildcats could bring in the No. 1
junior players from both North Carolina and Louisiana, as well as two other in-state players.

“I think it’s going to be a great recruiting class,” said Frank. “We very well may end up with a
freshman in the lineup, but we don’t need a freshman to step in like we have in past years. It’s
an enviable position.”

With possibly four newcomers and only one position open, it doesn’t take a math major to figure out that the
competition for a spot in next year’s lineup will be intense, even if the blue-chippers don’t earn starting roles.

There is another incentive for next year’s squad, as the conference champion will earn an NCAA tournament berth. The team
has high hopes for next year, a season which could bring Frank his first league title since his inaugural season
of 1973. He has now won six Coach-of-the-Year awards.

That string of success could continue for as many years as Frank remains at Davidson, but don’t worry about him
leaving anytime soon. “I think I'll be here at least another ten years. I wouldn’t consider going anywhere else.”

Lacrosse must win two of three to secure winning season

Two losses cool sizzling squad, team looks to regroup for final games

By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

After tearing through the last month, in which the women’s lacrosse team (7-6) collected seven wins and only one loss
(10-9 to Division III power Roanoke), the squad hit a rough patch this week, dropping two straight decisions.

Last Sunday at the University of Maryland-Baltimore County, the Wildcats fell 15-14 in a hotly contested matchup. “We played one
of the best games we’ve played all year,” coach Mary Schwartz said. “We could have taken control in the second
half, but we came out and had a ten-minute lull. They scored four in a row. It was hard to
come back.

“It was their (UMBC’s) senior day and their last home game. They had about six seniors out on the field,
and they were playing like that was it. I think every attacker had a chance to score a goal to
tie or take the lead and their goalie (Danny Fostik, a senior) came up really big. It was a disappointing
loss but I think everyone felt really good about the play. Still, knowing that we could have won the game,
that was frustrating.”

Amanda Fleck led the offense with five goals and one assist, while Allison Rhoads pushedFour shots past Fostik for a
total of ten goals on the weekend (she had six in the Wildcats’ 15-9 win over Mt. St. Mary’s the
day before). Linda Rothemund added a goal and three assists, and Sarah Hogan had two goals. Defensively, Davidson keeper Lisa
Benjamin turned back 14 shots, and the Wildcats held UMBC scoreless for a twelve-minute stretch in the first half, while
turning a 5-3 deficit into an 8-6 lead at the break. But ultimately, those efforts weren’t enough. UMBC used a
7-2 run at the start of the second period to regain the lead, and then weathered a Wildcat rally for
the victory.

“We definitely played like we wanted the game,” Schwartz said. “UMBC was a little flustered at the end. We were
coming up with the ball, but we just couldn’t execute on the goal. I was proud of them, knowing how
much this game hurt. But I told them that was good. It was good to hurt because that means you
want something.”

Coming off the UMBC loss, the squad traveled to Chapel Hill for a much-anticipated match against Richmond on Wednesday. But
after a see-saw first half that ended with the teams knotted at four, the Spiders exploded for seven goals in
the first 14 minutes of the second period, grabbing an 11-5 lead en route to the 15-6 final.

“We got down on ourselves and stayed down,” assistant coach Bryn Chave said. “We didn’t really come back from it,
and we just never put it together on the attack end. That killed us. If we had had a better
attack we could have stayed with them.”

“We could have come back,” Schwartz agreed. “If we could have gotten a couple more goals and taken a lead
and gained a little more confidence. We just kept building on the negatives and then just fell apart. The defense
came up great in the first half, and if the attack was scoring goals we would have had the upper
edge on that team, and I think we would have won the game.”

Hogan tallied two goals and one assist in the contest. Fleck and Katie Williams added two each. Heading into the
final three games, the once secure goal of a winning season looks like less of a lock. However, the team
still displayed confidence about reaching their goal.

“I’d like to be 10-6,” Schwartz said. “I think they want to win, it’s just a question of them going
out on the field and making it happen. It has to come from them, that’s the main thing. And the
seniors need to step up because this is it for them. They need to go out there and just play
out of their minds.

“We have three games left and they’re going to be tough and we have to put it together. We have
to play the whole game and this has to be a team effort. Being positive is the main thing. You
can’t just keep harping on the negatives.”

The squad played two matches in Columbus, Ohio, this weekend — Saturday against Mercyhurst and Sunday versus host Ohio State
— and will meet Duke Wednesday in Durham.

“You just have to go out and want to win and play well. Sometimes we forget about that,” Chave said.
“Sometimes we just assume, ‘Oh we’re doing so badly we’re never going to get back,’ but sometimes we just have
to realize that we are a good team and we do have some really good players and we have to
play with the attitude that we are good.

“We have to want to step it up at all times and never get down on ourselves.”

“It almost happened,” Schwartz added. “At UMBC it almost happened. We’re close to getting there.”

Davidson College Union is looking to hire two or three individuals by May 15. Earn $5 an hour. Work approximately
5 hours per week. Learn basic sound and lighting skills while supporting events all over campus. Please call 892-2146 if
interested.
