THE DAVIDSONIAN

Deaton, Wildcats’ Fan of the Century, embodies devotion

By Jack Morse
Staff Writer

Rock Deaton. Just by hearing his name, you can tell he loves football. It conjures up images of the Pittsburgh
Steelers’ Steel Curtain and the Four Horsemen of Notre Dame. But it takes more than just a love for the
game to become Davidson’s so-called Fan of the Century, an award Deaton received this fall.

“I can’t find the words to express how pleased this makes me,” he said in a press release announcing the
tribute. “This is truly a great honor.”

A sports fan but a Wildcat sports fanatic, Rockwell L. Deaton embodies devotion. He has attended 167 consecutive Davidson home
football games, a streak that stretches back to 1961. Not only has he seen every football contest at Richardson Field
in the past 36 years, but he also regularly attends Davidson baseball and basketball games. In the first six years
of this decade, he went to 152 of a possible 164 basketball games — both home and away. At one
point, he had a streak of 101 in a row, including games as far away as the Carrier Dome in
Syracuse, N.Y.

He first saw a Davidson football game as an eighth-grader in 1931. “They used to have stands at the back
of each of the end zones in addition to the ones on the sides, but they were all full,” Deaton
said last week in a telephone interview from his Main Street home, where he has lived with his wife Eugenia
for the last 51 years. “I had to sit in a tree near the entrance of Johnston Gym.”

The excitement and love for the game that began that day have carried on throughout his life. A 1939 graduate,
he did not miss a game in his four years as a Davidson student. And since then, he has traveled
to distant schools such as Bucknell, Boston University, Pennsylvania, and Fordham to see his beloved Wildcats play football.

He is excited about Davidson’s gridiron chances this fall, not just because it is the Centennial Season, but also because
he thinks the Wildcats have the talent to surpass the program record of seven wins in a season. “This team
has many excellent ball players and has a lot of depth,” he said. “The boys don’t play for themselves. They
play as a team.”

And in a season that will be a thrill for most all Davidson sports and football fans, no one would
get more joy out of a record-breaking campaign than Deaton. “I enjoy every moment I have at Richardson Field,” he
said.

SPORTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1997

1935 football captains to lead parade

By Michael J. Kruse
Editor in Chief

Henry A. Cathey of Charlotte and Cole L. Wyndham of Black Mountain, captains of the 1935 football squad, will serve
as Grand Marshals in Saturday’s pre-game parade. Cathey, 84, and Wyndham, 83, represent the elder statesmen of the returning alums
set to arrive for this weekend’s festivities celebrating the Wildcats’ gridiron centennial. Cathey and Wyndham both played both ways —
on the offensive and defensive lines — in their Davidson careers, in which they never experienced a losing season. Their
tenure included, among other things, four wins over Wake Forest. Cathey’s son, Henry A. “Tex” Cathey, a 1965 graduate and
also a Wildcat football alum, will take part in the activities as well.

Wright provides big hits

Chad Wright was the big-hitter for the Wildcats Saturday afternoon. The sophomore safety forced a fumble on a Maryville kickoff
return early in the second half and then sidelined Scots star Nathan Davenport with a thunderous hit with nine minutes
left in the game. Roland Williams’ two touchdowns (one receiving, one on a blocked punt) equaled his entire 1996 scoring
output. Williams on his blocked punt: “The whole game, they had been blocking me. But on that one, there was
no guy out there, and I was just like, Well, I’m going to go in and block it just like
I do in practice.” The Wildcats entered the game as the 11th-most improved team in Division I-AA, having gone from
a 1-8-1 mark in 1995 to a 6-4 record last season. Backup quarterback Matt Strader entered the game with 1:08
left in the fourth quarter, taking over for starter Tommy Dugan. The junior did not attempt a pass.

Wildcats run wild

Davidson gained 240 yards rushing on only 41 carries against the often overwhelmed Scots.Defense, good for a whopping average of
5.9 yards per carry. Eric Ferguson led with 107 yards on 17 carries, while tailback Bryan Kern added 51 on
just seven attempts, Dugan 49 on 10, and Lorenzo Moll 29 on five... Middle linebacker Shreve Ariail, who was selected
last season to the first-ever NCAA I-AA Independent All-Star team, led all Wildcat defenders with 12 tackles. Donnie Johnson and
Wes Thornton each had nine, Clif Henry added eight, and Bo Henderson and Chris Hess pitched in seven apiece... Various
improvements to the Richardson Field facilities were made for the football season and the upcoming centennial celebration in particular. The
bleachers on both sides received a fresh coat of paint, a row of bushes was planted along the sidewalk in
front of Johnston Gym, and a new concession stand will be completed in time for Saturday’s contest... Johnson injured his
shoulder late in the game. According to the starting safety, who had nine tackles and an interception against Maryville, he
separated his shoulder and will not be back for next weekend’s game versus Sewanee... Jeremiah Parvin, Davidson’s rookie punter from
Rocky Mount, punted six times for an average of 40.7 yards, including a boot of 53 yards.

South Florida opens impressively

South Florida, the Wildcats’ Nov. 22 opponent at Houlihan’s Stadium in Tampa, opened its first season of football with an
eye-popping 80-3 victory over Division II Kentucky Wesleyan. The New York Times ran a feature on the Bulls Sept. 4,
highlighting their inaugural year of football. “The young talent I’ve seen here compares very competitively to the young talent I
saw at South Carolina,” starting quarterback Chad Barnhardt (a backup for the Gamecocks last season) was quoted as saying. “I’d
say it’s maybe even a little better. And they’ve set a good standard here. Everything we do is first class,”
he added. “They’re throwing money around down there,” coach Tim Landis said after seeing the score. “They’ve got big-time scholarships,
so you’ve got to expect that. They’re going to be awful good.”

“Come Work at the Lake!”

First Quarter
D — Roland Williams 43 pass from Tommy Dugan (Brian Langley kick), 7:24
Second Quarter
D — FG Langley 32, 10:06
M — Jason Norris 1 run (Wade Obermeyer kick), 3:29
Third Quarter
D — Moll 4 run (Langley kick), 11:26
D — FG Langley 36, 9:13
D — Eric Ferguson 15 run (Langley kick), 2:10
Fourth Quarter
M — Matt Moore 35 pass from Brandon Derrick (Obermeyer kick), 14:02
D — Williams 12 blocked punt return (Langley kick), 7:54
D — Lorenzo Moll 14 run (Langley kick), 5:59
M — Norris 11 run (Chad Tipton pass from Joey Wood), 3:16
M — FG Obermeyer 29, 2:29

A — 2,279 (at Davidson)

Wildcats open with win, beat Maryville

Football from page 16

The third quarter was never in doubt, as the 16-point margin does not even convey the extent to which the
Wildcats handled the Scots. “I’m just real proud of all the guys and their effort today,” Landis said.

The Davidsonian

Now Opening a New Location
Exit 25 on I-77 at Lake Norman!

“We don’t play sports. We write about them.”

Your Ticket TO WILDCAT SPORTS COVERAGE.

Join the excitement of opening a new restaurant!

COSTA RICA
Study Paradise this Spring

- 5 minute drive from Davidson
- Full-Time & Part-Time
- Dinner Shift Only
- Great Money
- Great Benefits
- All Positions Available

895-1888
Apply Mon. - Fri. 10 a.m.-6:00 p.m
Sat. 1:00-4:00 p.m.
16400 Northcross Drive, Huntersville
I-77, Exit 25

The Organization for Tropical Studies in partnership with Duke University offers a field-oriented semester abroad program in tropical ecology and
Latin American culture. Students earn 16 credit hours in biology, environmental science, and Spanish language & culture. Credits may be
transferred from Duke.

- hands-on biology
- cultural immersion
- field trips
- independent projects
- remote field sites
- research
- exotic wildlife

For brochure and application materials, contact:
Organization for Tropical Studies, Duke University
Box 90633, Durham NC 27708-0633
Tel: (919) 684-5774; E-mail: <nao@acpub.duke.edu>
http://www.ots.duke.edu

Application deadline for 1998 Spring semester is October 15, 1997.
