THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Wildcats last went to the NCAA Tournament in 1986, when Gerry Born (seen celebrating above) hit a last-second jumper to knock off UT-Chattanooga in the Southern Conference title game. This year's squad hopes to be part of a similar scene Sunday.

SPECIAL SECTION
A Guide
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1997

Kosmalski fits right in, already a power in SC
By MICHAEL Kruse
Sports Editor

On most nights, the men’s basketball team faces opponents that are quicker and stronger, blessed with greater raw athletic ability. But the Wildcats, under coach Bob McKillop, have nonetheless become a perennial contender in the Southern Conference’s upper echelon, relying on a slightly higher level of intensity and concentration, and playing with controlled abandon. Fundamentals and discipline have allowed them to earn a reputation as a team whose success routinely transcends the statistical productivity of its individual parts.

This in mind, it’s tough to imagine a player better suited to the Davidson system than freshman Landry Kosmalski. As a 6-foot-7, 215-lb. power forward, Kosmalski simply does not have the body to physically dominate his man. Yet he manages to gain an edge much more often than not.

“When I was growing up, we’d have the same team over the summer,” Kosmalski explained in an interview earlier this month. “We weren’t really that athletic and we’d always be playing these athletic teams. I kind of learned that you’re not going to be jumping and getting rebounds with them so you learn to box out. You’re not going to be going by them so you learn to use your body.”

And in doing so, Kosmalski has averaged 13.1 points and 7.9 rebounds per game in his rookie campaign. He stands as a heavy favorite for league Freshman-of-the-Year honors going into this week’s conference tournament at the Greensboro Coliseum. His statistics, impressive at any rate - his rebounding clip is second in the Southern and his scoring 15th - don’t even really indicate just what kind of impact this 18-year-old Bedford, Texas, native has had on Davidson and the rest of the conference.

While you’d expect a rookie to pad his stats against weaker opponents in relatively meaningless games, Kosmalski has actually logged his finest performances when the team needed him most. Case in point: the best effort of his career came in a tight 63-58 win over The Citadel Jan. 27 in Charleston, S.C., a contest in which he recorded 24 points and 15 boards on a night when the other four Wildcat starters had uncharacteristically poor games.

“Landry has been a constant,” McKillop said that night. “He’s as tough as they come, freshman, sophomore, junior, or senior.”

But even with this flurry of early success, Kosmalski is not one to pat himself on the back. Ask him about high school accomplishments, and he’ll tell you about his 31-4 Trinity squad that went to the Texas state final, not his all-state second team and academic first team selections. Talk to him after a game in which he scores a lot, he’ll say he needs to rebound more. And after a game in which he rebounds enough, he will say he needs to score more. Rarely - if ever - is he satisfied. He will always find something he didn’t do perfectly - a lesson he learned from his father, Len, who starred at Tennessee and then played in the NBA for the Kansas City Kings and Chicago Bulls.

“He told me that when he got to the NBA, he kind of got content and then he got cut,” said the younger Kosmalski. “When he figured out he was aboutTo get cut, he started playing well. But by then, it was too late. “I learned in high school that if you get content, you’re going to go out and not practice as hard and then you’re not going to play as hard,” he said. “I don’t want to get too happy with myself. Everything can change so quickly.” Right now though, Kosmalski is a big part. Davidson will travel up I-85 to Greensboro as a real threat to win the event and the NCAA bid that goes along with it.

“You can’t ask for anything more from a freshman,” noted Mark Donnelly earlier this month. “I’ve said it all year, he’s the reason we’re a lot better than people thought we were going to be.”

McKillop and team shine on and off the court

The Wildcats have accepted NIT bids two of the last three seasons, McKillop earning conference Coach-of-the-Year honors in both those campaigns. “I think we’ve made our statement. This program’s been built the right way,” said McKillop last Friday. “This is a tremendous product.” Indeed. And his sideline wizardry is even more remarkable given Davidson’s status as the nation’s smallest Division I college.

At a school whose academic standards leave little room for timely junior college transfers, this year’s 17-9 record is amazing after the departure of four starters and two other lettermen from last season’s 25-5 team. That is where the coaching comes in. McKillop has molded a team of young, inexperienced players with just two veterans to form a corps very capable of capturing the league tournament title this weekend in Greensboro.

McKillop, a genuinely humble man, is quick to credit his assistants Steve Shurina, Matt Matheny, and Jason Zimmerman before himself. His players, however, give credit where it is due. “I want to play well for him whenever I am on the court,” Landry Kosmalski said recently, granting perhaps the greatest compliment a player can give a coach.

McKillop’s impact on this particular group is most noticeable by the team’s nonpareil work ethic. He is a motivator who preaches hard work, efficiency, and discipline, and wants nothing more than to see his players overcome the necessary obstacles. Players consistently arrive well before practice to work on various parts of their game. They do it at this late juncture of the season just like back in September.

After a tough loss to South Division champ UT-Chattanooga in January, guard Jeff Bergmann was out on the court twenty minutes after the game feeding passes to redshirt junior Ben Ebong. “That demonstrates the commitment these players have,” said McKillop at the time.

His players carry themselves well on and off the court, frequently going out into the greater Charlotte community to speak to younger children, another reflection of McKillop’s positive influence as a mentor for not only basketball, but life as well. On the court, there is no brash showboating or trash-talking. Just solid, fundamental basketball. McKillop has guided this team to success without the strongest or quickest individuals, but rather by teaching exactly what it is to be a team.

“To me, there is no greater reward than seeing a team come together,” said McKillop. “They’ve all managed to help each other.” Whether or not Davidson wins the tourney this weekend, one thing is for sure: McKillop will have his team perched atop the league standings for a long, long time. “I just wish that our players would get the support that they have earned,” he added. “That’s the only thing that can allow our program to take the next step.” That, and McKillop.