The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors-in-Chief
RANDY HARTWELL
HEATHER LARSON

Arts & Living Editor
CHRIS MOORE

Cartoonist
TERESA WHITE

Assoc. Arts & Living Editor
JEFFERY CROMARTIE

Business and Circulation Mgrs.
CHLOE BROOKE
MATTHEW EIRICH

Associate Editor
McNEIL CARSWELL

Sports Editors
WILL BRADSHAW
ANN CULP

News Editor
MICHAEL KRUSE

Advertising Managers
JOHN EARLY
PETER MARTIN

Associate News Editor
NARESH NAGELLA

Photo Editor
ANNA JUDY

Web Page Managers
CLAY LENHART

Opinions Editors
BRAD CHASE
KRISTEN BARTCH

Copy Editor
BETH BACON

ERIC PENDERGRASS
DAVID SANTSCHI

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

No dirty laundry here

Grass stain on your new pair of pants? Commons’ joe made you sloppy? Someone spill beer on you at PiKA? Have no fear, the most efficient, well-run service on campus is at your disposal. That’s right, that slight slice of mothering we all need from time to time called the Laundry will handle the job.

All of us who have used the Laundry—and what’s wrong with those of you who don’t?—have experienced the magic which happens there. The button you didn’t even know you’d lost is sewn back on. The rip repaired. The “Dry Clean Only” shirt removed from the regular laundry and treated with that extra-special touch. All these experiences make the Laundry so special.

Does anyone know the kid who never used the Laundry until recently and is now addicted to it? Drops clothes off there like it’s going out of style? Listen to a tour of prospective students as they pass the Laundry. The tour guide announces, “This is the College Laundry. As part of your tuition they do your laundry for you.” The prospective students' eyes bulge, the father turns to his son or daughter and says in the way parents speak to their children in a mock-attempt at public embarrassment, “This could be the school for you.” The admissions office will never admit it, but the Laundry is why most people actually enroll here.

Does it really matter that many of us leave here after four years not knowing the difference between “darks” and “lights” or what “Dry Clean Only” means? The real world can teach us all about “fabric softeners,” “spin cycles” and “hot and cold” when we graduate. Right now let us salute and appreciate the Laundry, because of the miracles it works, and because it keeps the real world at bay.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or (704) 892-2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

MONDAY, APRIL 14, 1997

Hey, honey, get a shot of this

LETTERS

Stick to the Facts

To the Editors:

I am going to make this short because as the Davidsonian has become more opinionated and one-sided in its “news” reporting, I am sure that many readers already take its stories with a grain of salt. But the story on IVCF in last week’s paper simply must be addressed. It is a perfect example of what a news story should not be.

It begins with a blatant omission of facts. The article begins by saying that IVCF was denied a charter last year 16-15 and then leaves out the rather important fact that the SGA overruled that decision the next week 18-11.

The article then goes on to give almost every argument against IVCF. But it fails to present the rebuttals that point out the flaws of those arguments. Or the article takes the rebuttals so far out of context that they make no sense.

I am not going to get into all the reasons IVCF was re-chartered. There are too many. That may have been why, out of 16 paragraphs in the article, only two can be said to give IVCF’s (or over two-thirds of the SGA’s) side of the debate.

If the Davidsonian staff was truly interested in reporting thenews, they would have presented both sides of the debate. It is clear that they are not. This trend toward yellow journalism and underhanded attempts to influence opinion is very disappointing. If the editors and writers of our paper have an opinion, they should leave it out of the news section. They can put it in their editorial where they will remain completely anonymous (after all, theirs is the only part of the Opinions section where opinions do not have to be claimed). At least the editors have had the decency to remove “The South’s Foremost Weekly Publication” from the top of the Davidsonian’s front page. I guess fact is still accurately portrayed in some circumstances.

Eric Sapp ’98

Editor’s Note: While we would not normally reply to such a letter, Mr. Sapp’s charge is so fundamental an attack on the integrity and professionalism of certain members of the editorial board that we must respond. Though the article on IVCF may have been imbalanced, it was not intentionally so. There was no attempt to bias the article or condemn IVCF. The editors — Randy Hartwell, Teresa White, Matthew Eirich (we write the editorials, and leave them unsigned, with the understanding that they represent the positions of the editorial board, a customary practice in most newspapers) — do not agree with IVCF’s philosophy. But we have never distorted, biased, or slandered that group in the News section nor have we allowed any writer to do so. To prove his charge of “trend toward yellow journalism” Mr. Sapp may have wanted to find more than one article from the News section which he thought was biased. Perhaps he could not find others, or perhaps he thought that a bald assertion indicting our integrity would carry his argument. And the phrase is: “The South’s Foremost College Weekly.”

Article slighted Tyler’s performance

To the Editors:

I was more than a little shocked when I read last week’s article about the baseball team’s winning streak. Not about the team’s winning streak, but rather how Michael Kruse, the almighty sports writer that he is, described Marshall Tyler. Anyone who went to the games against Marshall (coincidence), saw Tyler’s talented display of skills in the field, but especially at the plate. He hit a game-winning single and a two-run homerun the next day. I was appalled to read that Kruse had the audacity and lack of respect for Tyler and all Varsity athletes to write “the seldom-used outfielder played the role of the unlikely hero both days.” Was his performance shocking? Unfortunately not everyone is as gifted as Kruse, who seems to excel at so much that he deems it necessary to try and belittle the non-starters. I am sure that any other sports writer with respect for the time and effort varsity athletes put into practice (so that Kruse has something to do on the weekends) would have commended Tyler on his outstanding performance. But that was not all, he also found it relevant to point out that Tyler is not a starter, but to say “seldom-used.” Are you kidding? Did you think about this before you wrote it? He is better than you, me and virtually everyone on this campus. What is this unnecessary angst? Why attempt to do something so inane to take away from his patience, talent and effort? Would it have been too much to say, “Tyler lifts Cats with outstanding performance.” Furthermore, later in the article Kruse mentioned that Tyler was the “backup goalie” on the soccer team. Relevance? Did you give that phrase any thought? Or are you just a smug unhappy man? Tyler plays two Varsity sports, that is two more than Michael Kruse. Do you think about the amount of time and effort that Tyler and all athletes on this campus spend in practice, refining their skills? They do all this, playing a Division 1 sport at one of the most academically rigorous schools in the country, along with everything that everyone else here does too. Is it really necessary to be utterly senseless and apathetic? I would only hope that you would refocus your thoughts towards the important issues in your articles, rather than the irrelevant and demeaning status quo.

David Kaul ’99