OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1997

Dr. Ortmayer, one of my favorite professors, stresses that your thesis should always be at the beginning of a paper and very easy to find. So here it is: Martin Luther King Jr. was one of the most remarkable men in the history of this nation. Here comes the development: the fundamental reason why I say this is because, in my opinion, King was one of the few men in the history of the world to truly follow the teachings of Jesus Christ. Yup, there’s a religious side to this article as well. But it’s not going to be a fundamentalist tirade. My final point: as a society, we have strayed from several of Dr. King’s teachings, and that is one of the fundamental reasons for the rise of racial tensions in this country.

As most educated people know (whether they are Christian or not), Jesus taught to love your neighbor and to turn the other cheek. Christ was the Prince of Peace because that was how He taught us to resolve all conflicts. Jesus taught that we should live lives of love and forgiveness for our fellow man (and woman). As most educated people also know, the Church has not exactly been perfect in following the man whom it claims was God. Just read about the Inquisition or Crusades if you have any questions about this point. The reason the Church has strayed is quite simply because it is very difficult to follow the example of Christ. It is much easier to lash out in revenge than it is to forgive.

What made Martin Luther King so exceptional was that he was strong enough to follow Christ’s example, even in the face of the racist society in which he lived. And when you look at it, that is also what made him so successful. Blacks in the South were horribly mistreated. The rights and freedoms that this country has prided itself on for centuries (and for which many black soldiers have fought and died) were denied to blacks from the time they were brought out of church and were led by a man teaching love, peace, and the unity of all Americans, people of all races were drawn to his movement. The best way to beat racism is to make it come out into the open. King’s leadership left no loopholes or instances for racists to point to and justify their behavior. When a group is saying, “All we want is to be treated like Americans,” it is very difficult to justify denying that group on any grounds except racist ones.

The reason that the civil rights movement succeeded was because it crossed racial boundaries. Desegregation and real equality of rights (if not of opportunity) would not have happened if whites, who had a monopoly on power, had not recognized the validity of Dr. King’s message. King’s tactics were the reason so many whites who had previously been against, or at least impartial to, equality between races changed their colors (so to speak).

Sadly, the teachings of the man who had the greatest impact on race relations in this country have gone largely overlooked in recent years. This is not to say that they have been totally abandoned. There are still those strong enough to follow them. But the racial line has again clearly been drawn by men like Farrakhan and by phrases like “white supremacy” or “black power.” Today, the most prominent leader of the black movement is a man who preaches separation of the races and an empowerment of the “black people.”

To me, the great irony is that Farrakhan, who has risen to prominence by denouncing whites for their practice of racism and slavery, supports and defends the government of one of the few nations remaining in the world with a thriving slave trade, the Sudan. Farrakhan and his supporters preach a philosophy that stands in total opposition to the one King followed. They want power and revenge. They encourage segregation of the races and for blacks to trust only blacks. They organize racist events like Black Monday (after all, what else would you call an event that boycotts businesses of people simply because of the color of their skin). And they brand those who stand against them as traitors to their race.

What was Dr. King’s dream? It was not revenge or separatism, but rather that his kids would be able to play with white children and that neither would see the other as different. After all, why should skin color distinguish people any more than hair or eye color does? We cannot have it both ways. We cannot emphasize our differences at the same time as we...expect people not to notice them. We should follow the example of Dr. King and look beyond color and see each other as people, not as races. As a society, we need to return to the teachings of Martin Luther King Jr. And this time, whites should take the initiative and learn to love their neighbors and to turn the other cheek. We even need to love and forgive the Farrakhans of this world. And we need to refuse to give in to anger and not to lash out at things we feel are reverse racism. No one benefits from racism, no matter what form it takes. If things are ever going to get better, people of all races need to trust their fellow human beings. Dr. King did that by working within the system and trusting that Americans of all races would see beyond the color of a person’s skin if they were given the chance. I pray that America can follow Dr. King’s dream. Maybe one day he’ll look down from heaven and see that it has come true.

A Different Look at America

I have read with interest the articles written on these pages about the experiences of those in other countries. As one who has left America only once and had a brief taste of a different culture, tales from places I have only seen in pictures are fascinating. Like others at Davidson, last semester I studied in England for three months. However, this article is not about England.

Being abroad taught me as much about America as about England. I thought more about American assumptions and values from a distance than I had ever done before. Even in an English-speaking, first-world, industrialized nation whose colonies eventually formed the United States, American attitudes stood in stark relief in many ways. I never realized the premium Americans place on friendly, attentive service until I experienced English grocery stores and restaurants. Often, the only difference between the employees and the customers was that the employees happened to work there. There was generally little effort at making pleasantries through the check-out line, offering to help customers with questions, or checking to make sure that water glasses were full on the table. Clerks at supermarkets simply rang up totals—there was usually no effort at “a purchased smile” or a friendly “have a nice day” when leaving. Transactions were polite and businesslike, yet the whole concept of service, of being waited upon when entering, was almost non-existent at times.

I also came to appreciate how dependent we are on conveniences. In Britain there are only four television channels, the telephone is extremely expensive to use, movies are often a year behind American theaters, supermarkets are not nearly as well-stocked, and a car larger than a Honda Civic is a luxury. Necessities of economy and English ideas about what one needs to live comfortably are radically different from America. There is simply not the same emphasis on personal convenience. For example, stores are not open nearly as long, there are often huge lines (queues) for bus service, and electronic gadgets are not nearly as plentiful. I wondered how some Americans would react to such situations.

Another thing that struck me after being in England is the relative provinciality of Americans. While half of the news section of a British paper is devoted to news outside of Britain, it is fortunate if the Charlotte Observer prints two pages or a few short articles on world news. Perhaps this is a product of our geography; after all, Americans cannot travel 300 miles in any direction and be confronted with a myriad of languages, as many Europeans do. Perhaps it is because America is the only superpower remaining that many Americans do not feel the need to worry about what is happening in the rest of the world. Regardless, when I returned to the States I was immediately aware of the contrast in global awareness. People often say that travel broadens one’s mind, and I would have to agree. I learned not only about Britain and about myself, but I discovered that perhaps the best way to learn about America is to leave it for a while.

LIFE IN THE WELL

Q: ISN'T PIERCING STRICTLY FOR FETISH-GUYS, SKIN FREAKS, AND SEETHING CARNIVAL WORKERS?
A: NOT ANYMORE! THANKS TO MODERN ALIENATION AND BOREDOM, YESTERDAY'S CREEPY PSYCHOPATHOLOGY HAS BEEN MAGICALLY TRANSFORMED INTO TODAY'S WHOLESOME TRENDY MIDDLE-CLASS YOUTH AFFECTATION.

Q: WILL I EVER RUN OUT OF BODY PARTS TO PIERCE?
A: IF IT DANGLES, PROTRUDES, JIGGLES, OR THROBS, WE CAN IMPALE, LANCE, DRILL, OR STAB IT! YOU CAN WEAR YOUR ABUSED CHILDHOOD AS A PERMANENT FASHION STATEMENT. SO COME ON! BE A SPORT!

Q: DOES IT HURT TO GET PIERCED?
A: AS MIGHT BE EXPECTED, ANY SUDDEN PERFORATING, PUNCTURING, OR SKEWERING OF SENSITIVE HUMAN TISSUE MIGHT ADD TO WHAT SOME CALL "PAIN." WE LIKE TO REFER TO IT AS THAT SHARP UNPLEASANT TINGLING SENSATION.

Q: ISN'T PIERCING JUST A FANCY WORD FOR SELF-MUTILATION?
A: HEY, SELF-MUTILATION IS SOMETHING YOU DO TO YOURSELF. WITH PIERCING, WE DO IT TO YOU, AND YOU MERELY PAY US. COME ON, GROW UP! DON'T YOU WANT TO REALLY FREAK OUT MOM AND DAD?

Write for Opinions

We encourage submissions for Opinions from faculty, students, and staff members. Please submit your articles on Macintosh WordPerfect disks to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the College Union.