THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Dorcas and TOAC. Consulting Astrologists

Aquarius (January 20-February 18)—If you are feeling a bit put out by the prices (pack of gum $1.09) in the
Union cafe, think about a little revenge. Try this: Pay with a Louis d’or coin or demand to barter. Lucky
Mint: Franklin.

Pisces (February 19-March 20)—CALM DOWN! Your life is not the Forum and you have no chariot, Ben-Hur. It is always
better to make less noise. Think about re-facing your room in stucco for it.

Aries (March 21-April 20)—You will come into contact with a small, feral Shetland Pony. This is not a pipe dream.
It is very, very real.

Taurus (April 21-May 20)—This is your week to use jargon words. Here are some good ones... marginalized, quotidian, retroactive, quantum.
Co-opt until your heart sings. Especially lucky words to co-opt: hermeneutics, teleological.

Gemini (May 21-June 20)—You have a disturbingly large entourage of yawping toadies. If you want to get rid of them,
just tell them to leave you alone. You don’t have time for their inane drivel. Shun their zeal. Lucky Day:
Jeudi.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)—Make a statement without saying a word. Despite what other (stupid) people say, Cancers are the best
people on earth.

Leo (July 23-August 22)—If you are depressed by the cacophony of kaffee-klatsch at Cosmic, carry on to Caribou where it
is quieter. Average time which it takes to get un café au Cosmique: 15 minutes.

Virgo (August 23-September 22)—You Virgos, owing to your sign’s particular relationship with rodents, might be interested to know that groundhog—Phil,
I believe—did not see his shadow. An eerie thought, even for a gopher. Lucky Shack: Caddy.

Libra (September 23-October 22)—If you woke up at 8:00 am, Friday, to buy twenty-seven tickets to Star Wars™, you are
cool. Never forget this simple fact. Purchasing en masse is inherently cool. Lucky Characters: Han, Obi-Wan.

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)—Your ascending sign brings a surfeit of circus motifs. Think Circus Maximus, Le Cirque, Circus of the
Stars, Piccadilly and Oxford Circi, Circus Circus. Send in the Clowns, or just their tears. Lucky Film: Big Top Pee-Wee.
This film is lucky only in the abstract, circus-related sense.

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21)—Do not buy your beloved a “gnome” on Valentine’s Day. Sometimes there are no chocolate-covered-candy-hearts to give
away, but a gnome just won’t do, unless it is a chocolate gnome, in which case it would be funny.

Capricorn (December 22-January 19)—Try to incorporate this phrase into your lexicon: “I watch Baywatch.” It is really hard to do,
but Teresa White can do it. Lucky Place: some bay.

ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1997

Need cash for your service project? The Bonner Committee has funds to give. Pick up applications in basement Union, or
call Dewey Tran (@6623) or Laura McCarthy (@2298) for more information.

Jazz Mandolin Project awes crowd

By STEVE DUNCAN Staff Writer

“Even better than the Star Wars movie, but please don’t quote me on that,” raved Shannon Stitzel about the Jazz
Mandolin Project, a trio originating in Burlington, Vermont, which performed to a crowded 900 Room last Friday night. The group’s
name proved not just a clever title, but featured Jamie Masefield on electric mandolin along with bassist Stacey Starkweather and
drummer Gabriel Jarrett.

A mandolin is similar to a small guitar, except with a deeper and more rounded body, shaped like a pear
split lengthwise. Also, in place of each guitar string, mandolins have double strings which are tuned to the same pitch
(at the unison or the octave). Those who picked up a CD might have noticed that this group hadn’t even
pulled out the most bizarre of their instruments. In addition to mandolin, Starkweather was billed as playing tenor banjo, similar
to an ordinary banjo but lacking the fifth string, and the charango, a 5-(double)-stringed relative of the Spanish guitar.

The wacked-out instrumentation did not obscure the musicality and talent of this group, however. They presented what Masefield termed “an
eclectic array” of music, a distinctive and soulful fusion of jazz, funk, and traditional rock, which brought some listeners to
sit at the foot of the stage and call for an encore at the show’s end. Masefield sang on his
mandolin, the primary melodic instrument of the trio. Starkweather was an amazing bassist. While a bass player generally sticks to
a single melodic line when soloing, Starkweather often treated his bass like a guitar, breaking into passages of strummed chords.
Panels lined with buttons lay near his feet, offering various distortion and pitch-altering effects which added a lot to his
solos.

The best thing about this group is that they weren’t boring. Their music was engaging at several levels, filled with
juxtapositions of style, tempo, and meter which, along with their choice of instruments, sets this group apart from the repetitiveness
of many cookie-cutter popular musicians.

Discussion breaks silence

By HEATHER LARSON Arts & Living Editor

As a part of the “Food for Thought: Don’t Weigh Your Self Esteem” Eating Disorders Awareness Week, the Davidson Health
Clinic sponsored several events throughout the past week. Included in these was a panel discussion at which Sarah Zogby shared
the following poem: anorexia nervosa in the final...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Frenzied stages before performance, in the attempt to cleanse this body, to be the perfect daughter, the perfect student, a
clean woman, the sweat and estrogen were nearly exhausted. The cascading spiral staircase made of my protruding ribs plucked tired
love ballads directed to bowtied sucklers and broadsmilers, milling on the stage that dipped at the navel of my caving
stomach; thinning hair dressed the performance as dingy curtains to showcase the action heard only as clinking chandeliers and brimming
champagne flutes. Glinting under steely lights, they shimmered like watery eyes. These set scenes and mind-game rehearsals were to become
flesh, while the hors d’oeuvres lay like cold slugs on the silver trays; the dressing room lay dormant, unvisited with
the thrills of opening night extravaganzas. Yet it wasn’t stage fright, but the day-by-day rhythmic rocking of fleshless leg limbs
wrapped in feeble matchstick arms, a fetus cleanly covered in fine filmy peach fuzz to protect the bitter fruit from
frost. Safety lay silently shivering under blankets of wool. For years, I could only dream the dance.

Chief from page 10

What runs through your mind when you run into a burning building? Mostly, you’re just reacting. You get to the
point where your training is second nature. Part of the thing that makes it easier to deal with is a
state of mind where you are very task-oriented. You know what you are there to do, and you have to
have faith in your training and your equipment. There is a lot of uncertainty and confusion when you go into
a burning building. It is always very noisy, and you can’t see a lot inside. You just go in and
try to locate the fire and put it out. It’s kind of afterwards that you stop and think about what
you just did. If you are the first hose to go in, you really have no idea what to expect,
and you have to keep yourself safe while you are making your way through the house. It’s when you are
resting that it really begins to sink in what you just did. We joke about the fact that there is
a label on all fire helmets that says, ‘Warning — fire fighting is inherently dangerous.’

What is the most gratifying experience you have had? The gratification comes in when you have a personal connection with
the people involved. If you are fighting a house fire, unless you are in command, you are not going to
have any interaction with the people that own the house. I can think of two instances where I had real
personal contact with the victims. First, an elderly gentleman fell and cut his ear. Myself and another responded to the
call, and we took him in for some minor stitches. About a week later, I was working for a lawn
company and I was mowing the house next to the elderly gentleman, and I saw him in his garden and
went over to talk with him. He knew we were volunteers and thanked us. That was something where it was
a very minor injury, but you could really feel like you had touched the man, and he was very grateful.
The second event was a car accident here outside of Davidson last year. I was one of the first people
there, and I was helping a young lady who had hurt her eye and was in shock. I stayed and
talked with her from the time I arrived until the time she left in an ambulance. It is when you
get on the personal level that things become really rewarding.

At the Clubs — Music in two hours or less — COMPILED BY CLAY COFER

Monday, Feb. 3
Amos’: Old School R&B Night w/ Peg’s DJ Easy Ice
Double Door: Charlotte Blues Society w/ Bobby Hinton
Irish Cue (Cornelius): John O’Gorman & Friends

Tuesday, Feb. 4
Amos’: Bill Hanna & Ziad Jazz Jam
Cat’s Cradle (Carrboro/Chapel Hill): Swans w/ Low
Coyote Joe’s: Vic Rorrer & The No Name Band
Kickbacks (Concord): Brothers from Mother unplugged
Mythos: College night - techno
Pterodactyl: 80s Dance night
Tremont: Ska/Punk: Less than Jake

Wednesday, Feb. 5
Amos’: Funkomatic
Be Here Now (Asheville): Vertical Horizon
Cat’s Cradle (Carrboro): The Lemonheads w/ Ben Lee
Club 2000: College night Dance (Bare as You Dare contest)
Coyote Joe’s: Vic Rorrer & The No Name Band
Double Door: Carl Weathersby Blues Band
Jack Straw’s: Macgraw Gap
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Retro 70s and 80s

Thursday, Feb. 6
Baha: Retro 80s Dance night
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Retro 70s & 80s
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance (1/2 off before 11 p.m.)

Friday, Feb. 7
Baha: Live Reggae w/ Rolly Grey & Sunfire
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Salsa/Merengue/Cumbia
Mythos: Dance - techno
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance/Retro & Gothic upstairs (1/2 off before 11 p.m.)
Tremont: Purple School Bus

Saturday, Feb. 8
Baha: Dance (No Cover Before 10 p.m.)
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Salsa/Merengue/Cumbia
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance (1/2 off before 11 p.m.)
Tremont: The Queers/Screw

Sunday, Feb. 9
Double Door: Les Moore and Friends
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Salsa/Merengue/Cumbia
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance (1/2 off before 11 p.m.)

Club #’s
Double Door Inn: 376-1446
Jack Straw’s: 347-8960
Blockbuster Pavilion: 337-2883
Baha: 525-3343
Coyote Joe’s: 399-4946
Tremont Music Hall: 343-9494
Amos’: 527-6611
Comedy Zone: 568-4242
FAC Pub: Those under 21 yrs. welcome (not to alcohol)

---
