4

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, MARCH 24, 1997

Davidson chosen for international symposium
Symposium offers chance to study conflict resolution in The Hague

By RANDY HARTWELL
Editor-in-Chief

The Institute for International Mediation and Conflict Resolution (IIMCR) has selected Davidson as one of 20 colleges and universities in
the world to attend the International Student Symposium on Negotiation and Conflict Resolution which it sponsors every year in The
Hague, The Netherlands. This year’s symposium runs between July 21 and August 15.

IIMCR is based in Washington, D.C., and according to its promotional literature, is “dedicated to providing mediation skills to a
new generation of world leaders and college students through the provision of seminars and symposiums that teach the new science
of conflict resolution.”

Some projects in which IIMCR officials have recently been involved include briefing Israeli and Palestinian mediators during the Oslo talks
and establishing communication between U.S. President Bill Clinton and Syrian President Hafez al-Assad.

The symposium lasts four weeks and classes which address such issues as the roots of conflict, peacemaking and peacekeeping, and
human rights are taught by faculty from Clingendael, or The Netherlands Institute of International Relations, who teach Dutch diplomats.

Students who have completed their freshman year are eligible to apply for the program, which costs $3500, inclusive of tuition,
partial room and board, as well as some materials and field trips.

Ambassador Ken Brown, who directs the Dean Rusk Program, says, “It looks like a good program, if one can afford
it.”

Some scholarships are available. Charles Peterson, a spokesman for IIMCR, says, last year, more than one-fourth of participants received some
financial aid.

Students interested in applying for admission to the symposium can do so directly through IIMCR’s website at http://www.delve.com/IIMCR.html, or can
contact Ambassador Brown at -2440.

OUR EGGS IN ONE BASKET

One lucky egg hunter hit the jackpot on Sunday during the Patterson Court Easter Egg Hunt.

Emily Smith

International women’s issues addressed by Williams

By JENNIFER STARR
Staff Writer

“Advancing the status of women is directly related to U.S.’s goals... It is the right thing to do and it
is the smart thing to do,” says Bisa Williams, special assistant to Secretary of State Madeleine Albright.

Williams spoke on International Women’s Issues on March 18. In her lecture, Williams described international women’s issues as salient to
U.S. goals and an active component of U.S. foreign policy.

Williams asserted that advancing the status of women around the globe can lead to peace, democracy, an improved world economy
with more jobs and the spread of U.S. values. She explained that it would be difficult to have “true democracy
without the full participation of women.”

She offered examples of women’s groups working for peace in Bosnia and Burundi as evidence of the positive differences which
women can make.

Williams also described how the inclusion of women is vitally important to modernization and world economic growth. She explained that
women traditionally do much of the buying and selling in many countries but still make up most of the abjectly
poor.

She quoted a Turkish leader’s words, “It is difficult to modernize with only half a population” to illustrate that the
inclusion of women is important for practical as well as ethical reasons. Williams suggested that educating women, providing them with
health care, and giving them “a fair chance at the levels of political and economic power” can help break cycles
of poverty and overpopulation.

According to Williams, the U.S. government’s efforts on behalf of women include reporting honestly on human rights, backing the war
crime tribunal which are persecuting those who use rape as a weapon of war and cracking down on those who
traffic in women.

However, during the question session she admitted that the U.S. government’s response to foreign governments’ actions which deny the equality
of women (such as the recent actions by the Taliban in Afghanistan) is usually limited to persuasion, constructive engagement, and
the withdrawal of funding.

In the question period, Williams also addressed the role of culture and religion in international women’s issues. According to Williams,
religion is not often as large a barrier to women’s rights as many people assume. For example, she said that
no government or religious leaders required female genital mutilation.

Williams also sees culture as constantly evolving and capable of accommodating new roles for women. “Culture is as people decide
to make it. We believe in democracy which gives women a voice [to change culture],” she says.

Williams has gained first-hand knowledge of international women’s issues throughout her career. After graduating from Yale and UCLA and teaching
English at Rice, Williams entered the foreign service. She has been stationed in places as far-flung as West Africa, Panama,
and Washington, D.C.

She joined Albright’s staff at the UN and moved with Albright to the State Department. While at the UN, Williams
participated in the Chicago Women’s Conference, the Beijing Conference and the Cairo Conference on Population Control, and the Habitat Conference.

AA meetings every Wednesday night at 8 pm in Room 205 of DCPC.
Al-Anon meetings every Wednesday night at 9 pm in Room 205 of DCPC.

Mike, you are too Goode to us. Thanks for letting us use your computer.
