A full 50 percent of the members of my household — not counting the cat, who disdains to vote — believes that personal well-being is directly proportional to the quantity of sugar consumed on a daily basis. The other 50 percent not only disagrees but even dictates to its disgruntled constituency. Since the pro-sugar faction — John, 8, and Conor, 5 — grudgingly admit that their tyrannical parents have consistently made excellent choices on their behalf, sedition never (OK, rarely) ensues. This is an example of a kind of paternalism in which those who have the benefit of additional information and broader perspective have the power and responsibility to look out for the interests of the whole and to judge whether an apparent “good” or “benefit” is truly good and beneficial, or less beneficial than a competing benefit, or even harmful. This kind of paternalism is not always a bad thing, as the example shows. My simplistic example has limited usefulness. Davidson’s vexed question this fall — whether we should invite sororities to campus — is not as easily solved. Whether we are making complicated decisions or simple and clear-cut ones, however, it seems good to look at a big picture, taking note of advantages and disadvantages and weighing conflicting and mutually exclusive benefits. This community has, I believe, thought long and hard about sororities. Of all the points advanced by the champions of sororities, the only one worth arguing about is gender equity. Statements such as “if five percent want sororities and 95 percent do not, we should still bring sororities on campus and worry about the consequences later” run so counter to common sense and a sense of community as to merit counterargument. No one has convincingly argued that sororities are in the best interests of the community at large or of the women students in particular. Many, including the women students themselves, have offered good reasons why sororities are not in their best interests. We are left, therefore, with the question of gender equity. But what kind of equity are we talking about? Clearly not the kind of equity which enjoys a broad perspective, but that which says: equity means equal and equal means identical, therefore equity demands that A must be identical to B. Men have fraternities on campus, therefore, women must have sororities, even if the overwhelming majority of women do not want them and even if no convincing arguments concerning the benefits of sororities have been advanced. This kind of “equity,” that is, “you will have what we say is fair even if you do not want it and even if it goes against your best interest,” seems a perversion of the paternalistic example sketched above. Instead of children who lack the experience and knowledge to make the best choices for themselves, we have young adults who have carefully weighed the evidence. Instead of a decision considered in the light of the community’s desires and/or best interests, we have an arbitrary fiat based on selectively-applied knowledge. For, as Professor Ingram pointed out a few weeks ago (Nov. 11, “Maintain current academic atmosphere: No to sororities”), there are serious contradictions in the proposed status of sororities. The supporters of sororities say they will be content with semi-equity: let us on campus, they say, and we will be happy to operate as second-class citizens, without houses or meal plans. But the reasoning by which we must invite sororities on campus is that “equity” means “A must be identical to B.” Therefore, if female social organizations must be identical to male social organizations, then they must be truly identical. Sororities must have houses and all the advantages which fraternities have. “But,” you might say, “the sororities don’t want houses. They will be happy with classrooms in Chambers.” “Sorry,” comes the only reply possible. If we were acting on what people wanted and felt was in their best interests, this argument would have been settled long ago. Equity means equal and equal means identical. A must equal B. If the sororities come here, sororities must have what the fraternities and eating houses have. Otherwise, A would not be identical to B. You cannot have it both ways. Since proponents of sororities insist that the new organizations will not replace eating houses, our definition of equity demands that, if we admit sororities to campus, we make plans and find the money to build them their own houses. Every student on this campus who eagerly awaits the physical improvement of the Union, that truly non-exclusive social center, knows justhow difficult it is to find the money for a project about whose benefits the students and faculty unanimously agree. If we are to have sororities to give our women students opportunities identical to those of our men students, then, I suppose, so be it. But let us not cloak this giant step backward with the language of progress. Let us admit that what we are saying is, “We know 95 percent of the women students do not want sororities, and that the absence of sororities on this campus influenced your decision to attend Davidson. We know that the overwhelming majority of you consider your present arguments to be equitable and satisfying. We even know that most members of this community — faculty, students, and staff — suspect (probably rightly) sororities are not in the best interests either of the community at large or of the women students in particular. 

“But, even though you do not want or need them, and they supply you with no observable benefits greater than those you now enjoy, you must have them because you do not know what is best.”

Even John and Conor would not buy that one.

When home loses its familiarity

Thoughts over Thanksgiving Break — is home home?

“You can’t go home again, because home has ceased to exist, except in the mothballs of memory.” — John Steinbeck, Travels With Charley

Nothing has changed. Everything has changed. Contradictory statements? Yes. Confusing? Yes. I don’t know what I am feeling. Defining what I feel as confusion is an easy out, too simple an explanation for complex emotions. I am at home as I write this. Thanksgiving dinner, if you can call it that, sits heavily on my stomach like a lead weight.

I came home Tuesday afternoon, Nov. 25. The drive was different than I had anticipated — I was as nervous as I was excited. I live three hours north of Davidson in the mountains of Southwestern Virginia — Roanoke, to be exact. We didn’t come up the interstate but traveled through the rolling Blue Ridge Mountains. As the car finally rose over the last mountain, cresting the top, I saw downtown Roanoke miles away; nestled safely in its valley, illuminated in fall’s afternoon sunlight. The buildings seemed so small from our perch high above. I looked to the left; in the distance, the open land circled by mountains which seemed so huge in memory now seemed restrictive and enclosing. I looked to the right, toward the southwest, toward Mill Mountain, and toward my house. It didn’t seem as high as I remember.

Roanoke, Va., has a nickname. It is called the “Star City of the South,” because it is home to the largest man-made star in the world, which sits atop Mill Mountain. It glows white each night watching over the city’s 100,000 residents. As we wound down that last mountain, the star came into view. Every time I drive toward town, I know I’m home when I see the star. Am I?

As the car drove toward my house, I felt as though I didn’t belong. I didn’t fit. I can’t explain it, but I knew I wasn’t going home. I couldn’t relate to life here without extreme initial difficulty. The transition wasn’t smooth. I just sat, for a long time. Nothing fit then or fits now. I didn’t think I’d grown. Maybe I have.

Last night, Wednesday night, I went to a party at a house up the street. I saw everyone from high school. Sure, some people had gotten heavier, their clothes had changed, but it could have been another night in August with everyone still clinging to one another. However, now we were talking about the reality of college instead of an image. I fell right back into high school, and so did my friends. But we have been at different colleges and universities for almost four months, with different experiences, different relationships, and different friends. Didn’t everyone realize this? Shouldn’t it matter? It does to me. Still, nothing fits. I thought I had grown. Maybe not as much as I thought.

mikruse@davidson.edu.

Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Friday at 6 p.m. Or e-mail any submissions to editor in chief Michael Kruse at mikruse@davidson.edu. Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably in WordPerfect. Keep all submissions under 400 words. The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions as space requirements mandate.