THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Opinions Editors
JESSICA GOODSON
SARAH OGDEN

News Editors
KRISTEN BARTCH
DAVID SANTSCHI

Arts & Living Editors
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY
CARRIE MORRIS

Layout Editor
RANDY SKATTUM

Sports Editor
JAY CANTRELL

Web Page Manager
HENDI FINK

Photo Editor
ANNA JUDY

Advertising Managers
SCOTT REEDER
MICHELLE BOUGDANOS

Business Manager
CHLOE BROOKE

Copy Editors
DAVID JOHNSTON
WHITNEY BLAKE
LYNSAY MADLEY

Circulation Managers
CHLOE BROOKE
McNEIL CARSWELL

Associate Editor
NARESH NAGELLA

Editor in Chief
MICHAEL J. KRUSE

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

When sacrifices become too great

After 10 weeks as editor in chief of the Davidsonian, I have come to this conclusion:

To produce a top-notch 16- to 20-page publication on a weekly basis while simultaneously doing adequate schoolwork in Davidson’s rigorous academic environment is impossible.

By accepting this job — and, to me, the editor of the Davidsonian should do all in his or her power to put out the best possible paper each and every week — I accepted the reality that sacrifices would have to be made, whether social, academic, psychological, etc.

Likewise, SGA president Buster Burk and Union Board president Matthew Hobbie (and other major players in the campus fabric) made the same decision, welcoming similar sacrifices — all in an effort to serve their school.

And what do we, the leaders of the leading extracurriculars at this school, get in return? Personal pride. A feeling of accomplishment. Something to put on our resume. Other than that, very little.

In no way do I mean to speak for Buster or Matthew, so I will henceforth concentrate primarily on the Davidsonian.

My role at the Davidsonian, the way I would like to and have to perform in order for the paper to meet the high standards we have set this semester, is a full-time job. And more. I work approximately 60 hours a week, give or take depending on the nature of the particular week.

Sectional editors work anywhere from 10 to 30 or 40 hours a week, again depending on the week and their particular section. I am the only member of the editorial board who receives a salary from the school — and although it is better than nothing, it is little more than a slap in the face.

I was at Furman Tuesday night and randomly ran into the editor of the Paladin, Furman’s paper. We struck up a conversation. And to make a long story short, he receives a flat salary of $1,000 a year (comparable to what I would make in a year), a $4,200 tuition cut, the option of taking a free summer course to allow a reduced course load during the school year, and a free parking space outside his office.

Such incentives do not by any means guarantee a better product. The current Paladin is not as good as the current Davidsonian. It’s not even close.

But they do provide a situation in which quality work can be done on a consistent basis. I have been fortunate to have an editorial board and staff willing to put in the extra hours excellence mandates — and all on a volunteer basis.

But Davidson can’t expect such a workable scenario every semester and every year. The question becomes: Does the school want to have a truly excellent paper? If the answer is yes — and, at times, I’m not so sure if it is — a more appealing system of incentives must be set up for the Davidsonian.

And, while, again, I am not speaking for any other organization, I believe several of the most important extracurriculars — the Davidsonian, student government, Union Board, Patterson Court Council, and so on — should receive similar benefits.

The administration, however, asks how a feasible distinction between Extracurricular A and Extracurricular B could be made. Get real. There is a blatantly clear difference in importance and absolute necessity between the stamp club and student government. That line needs to be drawn.

Because there comes a certain point where the trade-offs made are no longer worth it, where what is gained through the extracurricular pales in comparison to what is lost elsewhere — most notably, the classroom.

Then what? The paper suffers. The SGA suffers. The Union Board suffers. Every important extracurricular, every campus institution, suffers.

And, ultimately, the school suffers as a whole.

LOVELY LADIES OF ALPHA BETA GAMMA
EER UNIT QUE OPPORTUNITIES FOR SOCIAL AND SERVICE ACTIVITIES!

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

All style, no substance

To the Editor:

Your pronouncement in last week’s Davidsonian that your “job,” “duty,” and “obligation” is to “report on all the news” “as accurately and fairly as possible” (“The price to pay for doing our job”) would be better followed if the paper’s staff started with the basic principle of confirming who’s who.

On the front page, I was first misidentified as English Department professor Elizabeth Mills (“Forum addresses sorority concerns”) and then mysteriously referred to as the “new chair of the English Department” (“Some department heads want to wait on minors”), although I assumed that post in August 1996.

While I appreciate that Sarah Ogden called me to apologize for the first of these instances, and while I understand that everyone makes honest mistakes, the disparity between what was preached in your editorial and what was practiced on the front page calls, perhaps for more matter with less art — matter being plain, responsibly researched facts.
Cynthia Lewis
English Department

To submit letters to the editor

Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Friday at 6 p.m. Or e-mail any submissions to editor in chief Michael Kruse at mikruse@davidson.edu.

Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably in WordPerfect. Keep all submissions under 400 words.

The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions as space requirements mandate.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on