THE DAVIDSONIAN | Celebration includes parade, dinner

By Jack Morse
Staff Writer

Davidson — the College, the athletic department, and the football program — pulled out all the stops Saturday in its Centennial celebration. The main events included a pre-game parade, a halftime show honoring the school’s gridiron greats, and a commemorative dinner in Johnston Gym.

The parade — similar to the ones traditionally held in conjunction with Homecoming many years ago — started at 12:30 p.m. and traveled down Main Street and Concord Road, funneling into Richardson Field. The caravan featured over 40 units. Cole Wyndham and Henry Cathey, captains of the 1935 Wildcats, served as Grand Marshals. More than 30 former football captains were also present at the parade, but they were not the only sports figures featured. Many mascots from teams around the Charlotte area entertained the younger fans before, during, and after the contest. Homer the Dragon, the Piedmont Boll Weevil, and the Hickory Crawdad attended the parade and game, and even the popular Sir Purr — the Panthers’ mascot — made a late appearance.

Davidson’s so-called Fan of the Century, Rock Deaton, rode on a horse and buggy, and there were several NASCAR show cars and antique automobiles highlighting the official stamp on 1997 as the Centennial Season and to declare Saturday, in particular, as Centennial Day. Even College president Bobby Vagt made an appearance in an antique fire truck carrying the game ball.

The excitement created by the parade carried over to the game itself, as the Wildcats jumped out to a 42-0 halftime lead over Sewanee. During an extended intermission, former football players were honored on the field. There were Southern Conference players of the year, Davidson Hall of Famers, former captains, and many members of the 1969 Tangerine Bowl squad, the only bowl team in school history — all told, it was quite possibly the greatest gathering of sports figures in school history.

The town of Davidson was represented by Mayor Russell Knox, who issued a proclamation to put an official stamp on 1997 as the Centennial Season and to declare Saturday, in particular, as Centennial Day.

After winning 42-14 over Sewanee, the team got a chance to meet and greet former players at the Centennial Dinner after the game. Approximately 300 former players attended the dinner in Johnston Gym, which housed a total of 500 guests for the celebratory meal. Both young and old shared seasoned stories and distant memories, as the Centennial celebration represented a time to look back on 100 years of Davidson football. And no one went home without a new story.

— NEXT Saturday vs. Emory and Henry
1:30 p.m. Fullerton Field, Emory, Va.
Coach: Lou Wacker
Current record: 2-0
Last year: 8-2
Last Meeting: Sept. 28, 1996 — Emory and Henry, 24-17 (at Richardson Field)
Players to Watch: Aaron Brand (No. 5, Sr., QB, 5-10, 191), Oliver Jordan (No. 27, So., RB, 5-8, 157), Jamie Harless (No. 55, Sr., DT, 6-2, 275), Aaron Fuller (No. 2, Sr., WR, 6-1, 209), Chris Barbour (No. 94, Sr., DE, 6-4, 247)

Notes: Last year, the Wasps led the Old Dominion Athletic Conference (ODAC) in rushing (248 yards per game), total offense (359 yards), scoring offense (26.9 points), rushing defense, and total defense...they were ranked 11th in Division III in total defense last year...they have won three conference titles in a row and 28 straight home games...Barbour was named to the second team of the 1996 All-South Region and 1996 All-ODAC first team, and led the team with 10 quarterback sacks...Harless won the ODAC defensive player of the week two weeks ago with 2 sacks, two forced fumbles (one of which he recovered), and nine tackles...the E&H offense returns only four starters from last year...Jordan is the Wasps’ starting running back.

Moll on the Wasps: “We can beat them just like we can beat anyone else if we play up to our potential.”

Tim Landis on the Wasps: “This is probably the best Emory and Henry football team we’re going to go up against in the six years we’ve been here as a staff. With Emory and Henry, they just reload every year. This is our measuring stick to see how far we’ve come. We’re going to be excited for this game.”

Jack Morse

A crowd of 3,188 helped the football program celebrate 100 years with a 42-14 win over Sewanee.from page 20

First Union in the commercial real estate field. Slade passed for 5,046 yards in his three-year career — freshmen weren’t allowed to play varsity then — and still holds 11 other school passing records, including most career touchdown passes (41) and highest career efficiency (60.2 percent).

“The key to (the 1969) team was the skill positions,” Rader said, referring to Slade and receivers Mike Kelly, George Hannen, and Mike Mikolayunas.

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1997

This year’s edition looks like it could challenge the mark. “It’s the best team since I’ve been here,” said Matt Matheney, who captained the team in 1991 and 1992. “They have more team speed, and they look better, too,” he added, referring to their new uniforms. “I came in (freshman year) with 35 guys, and we were talented but we weren’t very good. Then in my last three years we went 15-13, and we’re very good now.”

One of Matheney’s best memories came in the last game of his football career, which the Wildcats won over Centre College. “We were down by one or two with four minutes left,” he said. On the game-winning play, Matheney was on the field as quarterback and current secondary coach Richard Howell ran the option. “He stepped out of bounds twice,” Matheney said. “Then he ran into the end zone and the referee signaled for a touchdown, so we won the game.”

Matheney started his career at quarterback before moving to wide receiver. He also walked onto the basketball team for two years and is now a hoops assistant to coach Bob McKillop. But his gridiron days were the best. “The single most important thing I’ve done in my life was playing football at Davidson,” he said. “There’s a bond there that you can’t describe.”

That bond is why he, Slade, Rader, Todd, and dozens of others returned Saturday. They came to celebrate a century of football, and they were pleasantly surprised that the next 100 years is kicking off quite nicely.

Bill Giduz

Fans took advantage of the warm weather while celebrating the Wildcats’ 42-14 win over Sewanee and the program’s 100th-year anniversary.

Men’s soccer gains confidence with upset

Upset from page 17

Furman (5-2, 2-1) struck first, taking a 1-0 lead 14 minutes into the game after Brent Rosser tapped in a Daniel Alvarez cross. David Buehler cranked a shot by Pascale in front of the net to draw Davidson even with eight minutes left in the first half. The Wildcats played a virtually error-free second half. Led by goalie Brad Stroble, the stifling Davidson defense was able to squander the few Paladin offensive attacks. The Wildcats demonstrated patience and discipline that made Sunday’s output their best performance this season.

“To come back from a goal down was big for us,” Slagle said. “We didn’t panic and the guys just kept playing their positions, not rushing anything.

“We just beat last year’s conference champion and we’ve already lost to last year’s last place team (Citadel),” Slagle added. “We just need to realize that this one does not make our season, it will help us build our season.”