12 Chemistry, hard work meant more than Winona ei. touted UCLA at the Met Life Classic in Los Angeles. The
Bruins were led by goalie Brad Friedel, who started in net for the U.S. that summer at the Barcelona Olympics,
and featured two other starting national teamers. In UCLA’s first 11 games, Friedel — the eventual national player of the
year — had allowed just two goals. But Davidson put the ball past him three times in a 3-1 upset.

Cover story from page 16

A grueling, boxing-style workout that has since taken on legendary status in its own right — provided a moment to
which players still point as one of the season’s countless defining junctures. After nearly four hours in oppressive humidity, Slagle
ordered his troops to complete one last 600-yard run before they called it a day. And coming down the stretch,
leader-of-the-pack Matt Spear — as the starting center midfielder and a captain, the fiery leader was widely known as one
of the team’s fittest players — literally coughed up some inspiration.

“That first day of practice was the hardest we’d ever done,” Slagle said earlier this month. “As he’s doing this
run, he’s leading the pack, and instead of stopping to toss his lunch” — a classic Slagle-ism for vomiting —
“he did it on the run and finished first. They proved to me at that point that they were ready
to play.”

Yet the Wildcats opened up their typically demanding slate with a 4-2 loss at Wake Forest Sept. 5 — a
relatively lackluster and inauspicious way to begin what would ultimately become the most successful season in the history of Division
I athletics at Davidson. But it was virtually immediately thereafter that Davidson gave the local soccer boosters, a group that
grew exponentially as the season progressed, a glimpse of what was to come.

Forty-eight hours after the season-opening loss to the Demon Deacons, the Wildcats knocked off tenth-ranked Carolina 4-3. In the home
opener, they battled new No. 10 South Carolina to a 2-2 stalemate, as Ukrop’s 50th career goal with 28 seconds
left in overtime gave Davidson the dramatic tie. But it was another week until the team first captured national attention.
With a scoreless tie versus Duke Sept. 16 in Durham, the Wildcats vaulted to No. 16 in the polls. And
exactly a month later, they registered the biggest win in the history of the program — the first of many
victories labeled as such that year — by knocking off highly-touted UCLA at the Met Life Classic in Los Angeles.

“You could see a little bit of fear in Brad Friedel,” Spear says in “Homeward Bound,” the video that recaps
the Wildcats’ march to prominence. “That’s something I'll never forget. He knew we were good, and we knew we were
good.” And the pollsters agreed, upping Davidson to No. 9 in the nation. But two straight losses in late October
— 3-0 at Coastal Carolina and 3-2 at Furman — threatened to end the festivities before they ever really began.

Knowing full well the NCAA’s stinginess when it came to handing out at-large bids to relative no-names such as Davidson
— the 1990 Wildcats were denied an opportunity after finishing the season ranked fifth regionally — Slagle jolted his team
with this eye-opening scenario: Win the last five games or plan on staying home come tournament time. And the all-or-nothing
ultimatum worked to perfection; as the Wildcats won their final five contests by a combined score of 25-4. With the
last three — 9-1 over Marshall, 5-0 over VMI, and 3-1 over Appalachian St. — Davidson clinched its first Southern
Conference tourney crown since 1972 and, more importantly, convinced the selection committee that the school deserved its first ever spot
in the 28-team field.

Champions of Mecklenburg

With the tourney brackets set to be announced Nov. 9 at 1:15 p.m., players and coaches gathered in the basketball
office — the soccer office didn’t have a speakerphone — to listen to the NCAA matchups and learn their postseason
fate. “I was concerned,” Slagle said. “And when we heard (we were in), we almost didn’t hear who we were
going to play because we were screaming so loud.”

UNC Charlotte — whether the team knew it immediately or not — was the opponent, setting up a showdown the
local media began billing as the Battle of Mecklenburg County. And the two teams — the county’s only two Division
I soccer programs — did not disappoint. Playing in front of a raucous crowd 4,500 strong, the Wildcats and 49ers
battled to a 1-1 tie after regulation, a 2-2 tie after 60 minutes of extra periods — Davidson’s overtime tally
coming on a bicycle kick by Ukrop — and were forced to settle the score on penalty kicks. Tied at
3-3 after nine kicks, junior midfielder John Sampers banked in the 10th off the goalpost, catapulting the Wildcats into the
second round.

“I’ll never forget. As Sampers ran onto the ball, I started running following him from midfield because I just had
this feeling that he was going to make it,” Spear — now the vice president of Integrity Sports Marketing located
in Davidson — recently explained over breakfast at the Soda Shop. “And I wanted to be the first one to
him. I tackled him, jumped onhim, and out of the corner of my eye, I saw all the Davidson fans
jumping over the fence and coming towards us. “And before I could get up, they...

See Cover Story on next page

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1997

The village of Davidson — population 4,046 — is in the clutches of "December Dementia." Unlike many other top soccer
schools in the country, Davidson offers no scholarships to recruits. This is one Mecklenburg County school that will never be
mistaken for a sports factory.

The New York Times before the game: "Despite some of the strictest admissions requirements among the nation’s top colleges and
universities, Davidson has reached the quarterfinals in its first appearance in the National Collegiate Athletic Association soccer tournament. And, the
Wildcats have accomplished this without any soccer scholarships and even though the NCAA allocated a practice time that conflicted with
class time. So, half the team went to class and skipped practice — with Coach Charlie Slagle’s permission.

Davidson meets the University of San Diego in today’s 4:30 p.m. game, and most of the players will be playing
the most important match of their lives. All 8,100 seats in the stadium were sold out before Davidson made the
semifinals. Today’s official attendance was announced as 8,150, not counting the overflow of students who watched from the windows of
the library adjacent to the stadium.

The Charlotte Observer magazine: “Unlike the other top (soccer) schools, the victories had less to do with soccer and more
to do with life. The pattern is uncanny and undeniable. The guys who made up the 1992 men’s soccer team
— now anywhere from 24 to 28 years old, five years removed from their pinch-me-is-this-a-dream run to the Final Four
— are now either successful or on their way to becoming successful. They are entrepreneurs, they are grad students, they
are climbing the corporate ladder at sales departments, accounting firms, and law offices. They are making it in life just
as they did on the soccer field. And the two things are far from mutually exclusive. On the contrary, they
are irrefutably connected.

“These guys achieved to their potential, all the way to their potential — not all human beings are like that,”
coach Charlie Slagle told me this summer when I was compiling information for this series. “The drive in any human
being is so important, and, for whatever reason, all these guys were in overdrive all year.” And still are.

Cliff Castelloe, who notched six goals and six assists as a defender, is now the president of Jingle King Productions
in Santa Barbara, Calif. Matt Spear, “the glue that kept us together,” according to Slagle, now serves as vice president
of Integrity Sports Marketing right here in Davidson. Phelps Sprinkle is the creative director for Topics Magazine in Charlotte. Preston
Yarborough is an account manager for Yarborough & Company in High Point. Lance Kinerk is studying business at Vanderbilt, Andy
Haile law at Stanford, and Robert Malinzak medicine at Duke. Ben Hayes, whose 13 goals would have made him the
star of many teams, is a Ph.D. candidate at Virginia Medical College. And John Sampers, the team’s third double-digit goal-scorer,
is now the vice president of Sampers Financial in Upper Montclair, N.J. Rob Ukrop, Alex Deegan, and backup keeper Neil
Andrews have continued their soccer careers as professionals. Ukrop, who enjoyed a 16-game stint in 1996 on the MLS’s New
England Revolution, now not only stars for his hometown Richmond Kickers, but gives motivational talks to thousands of Virginia schoolchildren
every year, using the 1992 team as proof positive that setting goals and working hard does make dreams come true.

No, the 1992 Wildcats didn’t win the national championship, falling to San Diego in the semifinals. But it hardly even
mattered. Because they were not so much playing the game of soccer as they were preparing for the game of
life. And perhaps that’s why this community — the students, faculty members, administrators, townspeople — reacted with such overwhelming support.
When all is said and done, the victories — one after another until the Wildcats found themselves in the Final
Four on their home field — had very little to do with soccer itself. This team personified everything Davidson stresses:
teamwork — meaning cooperation with your fellow human being — goal-setting; diligence; and, ultimately, achievement and success. And they did
it with energy, integrity, and humility.

On Saturday morning, less than 12 hours after the dream season had faltered two games shy of a national title,
less than 12 hours after nine seniors had ended their careers in heart-breaking fashion, over 500 little kids showed up
at Richardson Field for the NCAA’s YES (Youth Education through Sports) clinic. Their instructors, at 9:00 a.m. on that cold
December morning, were the 22 members of the 1992 Davidson College men’s soccer team — ready and willing to teach
their sport and, more importantly, spread the word. “Dream high. Work hardest,” as Ukrop says. Indeed, in this case, nice
guys did finish first.
