Che Dabidsonian

ORTA LIBERTAS ALENDA L ULxX UB a

DAVIDSON COLLEGE MONDAY, MAY 5, 1997 VOLUME 88 SPECIAL EDITION

By Jessica Goopson
Guest Writer

Robert F. Vagt was announced as Davidson’s 16th president on Friday. He will succeed John W. Kuykendall on July 1. Renowned for his leadership, diligence, vision, and creativity, Bobby Vagt promises to embody the Davidson spirit as its future president.

Vagt, a student from Connecticut, arrived at Davidson in 1965 and became active on- and off-campus immediately. Working an assortment of jobs throughout his four years to pay his tuition, he also managed to swim on the varsity swim team, hold an ROTC scholarship, win the Agnes Sentelle Brown Award, participate as a brother in Pi Kappa Alpha, serve as a hall counselor, and become elected president of the Interfraternity Council. In 1969, he graduated with a major in psychology and was later clinically certified.

Vagt has diligently maintained his affiliation with Davidson in the years since his graduation. In 1996, he received Davidson’s Alumni Service Award for numerous volunteer leadership roles in college fundraising, including two years as national leader of the Annual Fund from 1993-1995. He has been a member of the college’s Board of Visitors since 1992 and is a member of the Ne Ultra Society. Vagt has also served as a regional committee member for the Houston Regional Campaign and on the committee for his 25th reunion.

Bobby Vagt’s dynamic career has included social service work as the director of clinical programs in the Northwest Alabama Mental Health Center and in the departments of corrections in Massachusetts and North Carolina. Introduced in his field as a psychologist at Raleigh’s Central Prison, he continued to serve North Carolina as warden of the minimum-security McLeansville Correctional Facility from 1969-1973. From 1975-1979, he worked in New York State’s Division of the Budget and its Housing, Medical Care Facilities, and Project Finance agencies to help the City avert a series of financial crises and potential bankruptcy. He furthered this career in public finance through 1980 as executive director for the Municipal Assistance Corporation, the state agency designed to keep New York City afloat during the mid-1970s when the City was in dire economic straits.

Since 1980, Vagt has directed operations for three international oil and gas companies in New York City and Houston. Initially, he helped to create Adobe Resources, where he served as president and chief operating officer. When that company was sold in 1992, he joined Global Natural Resources as president and chief executive officer. His experience with Global includes piloting international ventures, regional management, and consorting with major stockholders and their entourage of Wall Street brokers. In October of 1996, Global was purchased and merged into Seagull Energy Corporation, which Vagt most recently served as president and chief operating officer. Houston-based Seagull is a publicly traded international oil and gas company engaged in exploration and development in the United States, Egypt, Canada, the Ivory Coast, Indonesia, and the Russian Republic.

After he was announced as the next president, Vagt spoke in Love Auditorium on Friday.Tatarstan. It also transports, distributes and markets natural gas, liquids, and petrochemicals in the U.S. and Canada. Seagull, which is currently traded on the New York Stock Exchange, has $1.5 billion in assets, and net earnings in the first three months of 1997 total $17.3 million on revenues of $159 million. “Bobby is admired and respected by our employees,” says Janet Hughes, his Executive Assistant of the past five years. “He is always approachable, honest, and down to earth. Many of us have leaned on him as a mentor. His management style is the kind which inspires loyalty and a desire to excel. Bobby provides goals and objectives for his people, and apart from periodic informal meetings to ‘touch base,’ one is trusted to do the job in a self-paced environment.”

Vagt, during his enrollment at Davidson, taught Sunday school at DCPC and decided during his junior year to study for the ministry. He carried out this plan initially as pastor of a church in Wilkesboro for $20 a week. Vagt went on to earn a Master’s of Divinity degree from Duke University and was subsequently ordained by Concord Presbytery. Though he chose not to pastor a church, he has maintained his ordination and consistently ministered to the Presbyterian churches where he lived as a parish associate, with a primary responsibility for youth programs. He also gives occasional sermons and regularly presides over weddings and funerals. As a parish associate, he holds a full-time secular position but spends countless volunteer hours leading youth groups and teaching Sunday school. Dr. Fair, “Fairfax,” pastor of St. Phillip Church in Houston where Vagt attends, says she has “never known a kid who didn’t like him immediately. He interacts great with all age groups, making everything relevant and insightful.” As a testament to his warmth and vigor, she relates the story of how Vagt once phoned a youngster in his congregation long distance from Russia to remind her to come to youth group. “He comes with a great eagerness to pitch in any way he can.” His wife Ruth Anne and daughter Lindsey are also known for their participation with the missions committee and missions to Merida, Mexico each year.

Vagt married Ruth Anne Maxwell midway through his senior year at Davidson, and the couple has remained happily married for twenty-nine years. They have two daughters. Ashley is a 1995 graduate of Davidson College working at Lynchburg College for her master’s degree in education. Lindsey is a high school senior who will enroll at Davidson in the fall. When Vagt was a student at Davidson, he promised to “work until I find the very best job that exists in this world. Here I am.”

Trustees, faculty, administration, and students solicited thousands of nominations, reviewing about 150 of them and then interviewing around 12. The biggest task is still ahead, according to Presidential Search Committee chair Larry Dagenhart. “After selecting a president, we’ve got to nurture a president,” he says.