Che Davidsonian

ALENDA

LUX

UBI

ORTA

LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1997

VOLUME 88, NUMBER 15

Sophomore Austin Rios bathes in the glory of his male wet t-shirt contest victory. The contest was held on Friday
night to benefit the Ada Jenkins center.

WET WEEKEND

Anna Judy

SGA considers revision of chartering process
IVCF debate sparked need for clarification

By MATTHEW ERICK
Staff Writer

The SGA revisited the contentious issue of the chartering of student organizations at its meeting last Tuesday when the Charters
and Bylaws Committee presented its proposal for revising the chartering process.

The Senate tabled the proposed changes and should vote on the proposal this Tuesday.

The Charters and By-Laws Committee, chaired by Sophomore class president Ann Harriott Fisher, revised and expanded the SGA bylaws which
outline the criteria for receiving a charter from the Senate.

The bylaws changes would require an organization to provide the following information: its name, a statement of purpose, leadership, approximate
membership, “a constitution, bylaws, or other governing documents” and “a statement that the organization intends to abide by Article I.A.2
of the S.G.A. Bylaws and the nondiscrimination policy of the college as stated in the Official Record of Davidson College.”

Article I.A.2 of the SGA Bylaws states, “All students have

See Proposals on page 4

Buzzer-beater lifts women to 3-0 in SC

By AARON DUNHAM
Staff Writer

With 14 seconds remaining in Saturday night’s game, it looked as if the Wildcats’ perfect week was going to become
anything but.

After the biggest win in the history of the program against Appalachian St. Monday in Boone and another victory Thursday
over Maryland-Baltimore County, the team needed a win versus a struggling Tennessee-Chattanooga team to remain undefeated in conference play.

But the Moccasins weren’t about to be a victim of the Wildcats’ success. They outplayed Davidson for over 39 minutes
before the home team heroics began.

Jamie Brown’s clutch jumper from the right baseline tied the game at 59 with four seconds remaining. Then, following a
UTC timeout, rookie standout Jen O’Brien stole the inbounds pass and fed Brown for a stunning game-winning layup as the
buzzer sounded.

See Women on page 14

Cable presents results of five-year financial aid study

By ANN CULP
Staff Writer

Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid Nancy Cable presented a financial report to the SGA on Tuesday night with the
Financial Aid Planning Team's recommendations based on a study conducted over the past five years.

At $25,267 a year, Davidson is not cheap. Cable and the Faculty Admission Committee have the responsibility of making that
price tag affordable for students admitted to Davidson. With one-third of each class qualifying for need-based financial aid, the financial
aid staff awarded $13,260,470 in merit and need-based aid in the 1995-96 year. Davidson competes with schools as expensive as
Princeton and as economical as state universities to enroll a student body of academic quality and diversity at Davidson.

“Other schools use perks like giving away computers or an overabundance of loans and others have a much higher endowment
than Davidson, so it is a complex task to attract the very most academically qualified students here,” said student representative
to the Trustee Admission Committee sophomore Rives Moore.

As a result of the complicated problem, a variety of financial aid strategies have been adopted.

“This is not a science, it’s really an art, and even done well there’s a lot of unpredictability,” said Cable.

During the 1980s, tuition costs steadily grew while the annual rate of financial aid also increased each year. For every
1% increase in fees, the financial aid budget increased 1.5% to keep Davidson affordable. A committee was created in 1988
that determined that the tremendous growth in financial aid needed to be checked. In 1992, a committee chaired by Professor
Homer Sutton deemed it necessary to cap financial aid at 13.5% of Davidson’s operating budget.

The committee predicted that the cap would be reached in the 1997-98 year, but instead it was reached in 1994.
In addition to the cap, it was recommended that the college maintain its need-blind admission policy, but no longer could
guarantee to meet 100% of demonstrated need for each student. A planning team was formed to create a strategic plan
to guide financial aid. The product of the Financial Aid Planning Team is a report containing recommendations and concerns.

Members of the planning team included Professor Cole Barton, Vice President For Institutional Advancement Toby Bethea, Assistant Dean of Admission
and Financial Aid Harrison Heil, Controller Ed Kania, Director of Donor Relations Meg Kimmel, Scholarship Coordinator Gardner Roller Ligo, Professor
William Mahony, Senior Executive Director for Institutional Advancement Jamie May, Associate Dean of Admission and Financial Aid Gordon Peck, Senior
Associate Dean of Admission and Financial Aid Leonard Satterwhite, Associate Dean of Admission and Financial Aid Kathleen Stevenson-McNeely, and it
was chaired by Cable.

“Financial aid should provide

See Cable on page 5

Financial Aid Packages

High Academics, High Academics,
Low Need High Need
Basic Package ++ Basic Package +
Low Academics, Low Academics,
Low Need High Need
Basic Package Basic Package

Tradition continues page 10

On the road again

SPORTS

HOROSCOPE........... 12
SPORTS................. 13

NEWS BRIEFS............. 2
ELSEWHERE............. 6
CROSSWORD............. 6 First Class Mail
EDITORIAL............... 7 U.S. Postage Paid
OPINIONS................. 8 Permit No. 1
ARTS & LIVING.......... 10 Davidson, NC 28036

OPINIONS 8
