THE DAVIDSONIAN

DORCAS AND A CHEESE

Loc Consulting Astrologists

Aries (March 21-April 20)—This week, try printing something at the library. Oh... that’s right—you can’t. Making your own papyrus takes
less time, wastes fewer trees, and is more fun to talk about. Your mood this week: Angst-ridden.

Taurus (April 21-May 20)—Revive pinball... think of the advantages it has over video games... real balls. That’s it. That is
the only advantage. Question of the week: why “donkey” kong? (answers should be sent to members@justice.com). Your mood this week:
Smart-ass.

Gemini (May 21-June 20)—You can’t wear my jacket, it is for Members Only™. To become a member send applications to
members@justice.com. Your mood this week: cool.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)—That stupid comet brings you all the luck that other people don’t have this week. Your mood
this week: Stellar.

Leo (July 23-August 22)—If your Barbie-dream wardrobe involves knee-high boots, think again. They are soo Liberace. Lucky colors: if you
think pigment is lucky, then you are the one wearing the boots. Your mood this week: running-on-empty.

Virgo (August 23-September 22)—Tycho Brahe visits you in a dream. Get up quickly and move towards the bathroom. Lucky luv’in
passage: cloaca. Your mood this week: stepford-wife-esque.

Libra (September 23-October 22)—Since Spring has been visited upon us, you might want to go to a waterpark (natural thought
process). Say no to the flume, though. Lucky loci: Dorney Park and Wildwater Kingdom, Beautiful Mount Airy Lodge.

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)—Insult archaically: “Thou tottering knotty-pated codpiece” is a good start. If you think that: “Thou warped plume-plucked
measle” or “Thou artless, hell-hated apple-john!” produce a desired effect, TRY “Thou craven, onion-eyed mumble-news!” It is really the ultimate.
Your mood this week: bawdy and/or ribald (also piebald).

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21)—Stop spinnin’ those yarns, you slack-jawed yokel. I think everyone’s got the point. Your mood this week:
chatty cathy.

Capricorn (December 22-January 19)—Congratulations to Davidson alumnus and fellow child of the corn, WILLIAM KOLBERG ‘87 for his recently patented
invention the Portable Self-Powered Band Saw. Your mood this week: pentecostal.

Aquarius (January 20-February 18)—Start a business throwing parties for children. Some things to bring to these parties: a Teddy Ruxpin™,
My Buddy™, Kid Sister™, Cricket™, and a clown. Your mood this week: a bit tired.

Pisces (February 19-March 20)—If you had pot luck this weekend, create a poultice to help: use these ingredients: one loganberry,
a small, excitable black dog, three fishsticks (mashed), the juice of one kumquat, oily rags, dental dam. Your mood this
week: confused.

ARTS & LIVING

MONDAY, APRIL 7, 1997

Palatable Pleasures

Sit down and share the artichoke heart sauce

By JEFFERY CROMARTIE
Associate Arts Editor and Loving Chef-in-Residence

In some of my articles last semester, I described the kitchen as a domestic center of power and a major
factor in the quality of family life. Since the bra-burning days, many women have chosen hunter-gatherer roles of modern society.
Often very intelligent, career-oriented women have no idea how to boil water and refuse to learn even basic kitchen skills
because they will not bow to traditional women’s work. As a result, these productive women who are raking in the
money are forced to eat out all the time or live with somebody who can cook. I saw this as
a major opportunity for males to gain more control over the quality of daily family life. Sex roles are no
longer a serious factor in how we choose to live our lives. Males can be...a sensitive and emotional as they
care to be, and females are more than welcome to revert back to amazon warrior mode. As with all things
in life, the key is equilibrium. People need both domestic and hunter-capitalistic skills. If you and your mate are both
balanced, then you can easily trade off such tasks, which can be very relaxing. I was wrong to think that
the quality of life and power were associated. Relaxation is much more important than control. Share — relax — comfort,
and your life will take quite a different hue. Enough senseless babbling: Let us cook:

Catherine’s Creamy Artichoke Heart Delight
- 1 6 oz can of marinated artichoke hearts
- 1 tbsp olive oil
- 1 tbsp butter
- 1 tsp dried basil
- 1/2 cup sour cream
- 1/2 cup cottage cheese

Combine butter, oil, and the juice from the artichoke heart can and heat until the butter melts. Add artichokes and
basil for 3-5 minutes over medium heat. Remove from heat, add sour cream and cottage cheese, and stir. You can
toss with pasta or serve as sauce. This makes enough for 3-4 people or 1-2 female athletes.

Healthy Living
Stand up, motivate, and align your body, mind, and spirit
By Joanna Davis

Feeling tired and unfulfilled? See page 7. Act now!
Staff Writer

We all know that exercise is an integral part of our overall health. Not only does exercise benefit us physically,
it benefits us mentally and spiritually as well. There are many times for all of us, however, when the couch
becomes more and more welcoming, our work or studies become more and more demanding, and just knowing that exercise is
a beneficial habit is not enough to get us up and moving. Perhaps a few reminders about what exercise can
do for your body, mind, and spirit will help you get motivated this month.

Top Ten Reasons to Get Moving in April:
1) Exercise increases your overall muscular strength, as well as muscular and cardiovascular endurance.
2) Exercise reduces your level of anxiety and better enables you to handle stress.
3) Exercise helps you to lose weight — especially fat weight.
4) Exercise reduces your risk of developing osteoporosis by helping maintain bone density as you age.
5) Exercise helps to maintain, and in many cases raise, your BMR (Basal Metabolic Rate) which would otherwise drop with
age.
6) Exercise improves mental cognition and alertness.
7) Exercise minimizes your risk of developing type II, or non-insulin dependent, diabetes.
8) Exercise reduces your risk of developing hypertension or high blood pressure.
9) Exercise helps to prevent and alleviate depression.
10) Exercise reduces your risk of developing breast cancer, colon cancer, and prostate cancer.

Act kindly to yourself. Nap.

Jasper’s Pet
Jasper's new patio offers European-style dining. Enjoy a delicious meal while overlooking the working herb and spice garden, fountain, and
seasonal foliage. Show your faculty, staff, or student ID and receive 10% off your meal. Dinner reservations recommended Fridays &
Saturdays. 890-1881

Jasper’s on South Broad
International cuisine with a southern twist
An 1859 House, Fresh Ingredients, Homemade Bread & Desserts, Vegetarian Selections, Fine Wines & Beers

PATIO NOW OPEN!
Lunch: Tues - Fri 11:30-2:00, from $3.95
Dinner: Tues - Sat 5:30 - 'til, from $7.95
Open Sundays for Easter, Mother's Day, and Davidson Graduation
259 South Broad Street, Mooresville, 663-1859
Off Premise Catering & Private Rooms for Special Occasions

HELP! No, really. Arts needs dependable writers. Call Heather. 895-8435
