Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Th ALENDA Lax -U So ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE MONDAY, APRIL 28, 1997 VOLUME 88, NUMBER 26

After much debate, international students get SGA seat

By NARESH NAGELLA Associate News Editor

There’s a new representative in town for the SGA. Last week the SGA gave permission to the International Student Association
(ISA) to have a voting Senator speak for their interests at student government meetings. The ISA previously had a non-voting
representative.

The SGA allowed the ISA to join with a final vote of 24-7, more than the three-fourths margin needed to
allow a new member to join. The SGA had tabled the issue after prolonged debate last week and then discussed
for more than one hour this week.

At issue was whether the ISA could really count as a social organization and whether their needs were not being
met by independent or Patterson Court representatives.

“It is a dangerous precedent if we give any chartered organization that represents a specific part of the student body
a seat,” said non-SGA member junior Eric Sapp. “I don’t see how we can deny IVCF, FLAG or any other
such organization a seat if the ISA gets one.”

Senior Class President Tim Saintsing responded to Sapp’s argument. “The ISA deserves a vote because the by-laws do not define
what a social organization is,” he says. Saintsing believes that almost any organization can apply for a seat if the
bylaws are not made more specific.

Freshman Joe Hayworth thought the situation to be a special case. “It is not a dangerous precedent when we encourage
diversity. The ISA is owed this right to have a voting voice. They have come to meetings for the last
five years,” he says.

Senior Class President Saad Gul stressed that the ISA was not asking for representation out of political correctness but because
there was a real need. “There are specific needs of international students that are not being met. The College has
difficulty dealing with health insurance, car insurance, and other special matters that an international student needs help in solving,” he
says.

Former ISA representative Regina Marranzini did not feel that non-voting status is enough to express those needs. “How worthy is
an opinion that does not have a vote? I always felt like my opinions were not being considered properly, like
they were token,” she says.

When the vote finally occurred, ISA representative Toh Hean Ch’ng said, “I am really happy everything worked out well. Now,
we have to meet our new challenges.” It has not been decided which one of ISA’s 70 or more members
will be the new senator. Ch’ng expects a vote to happen soon. The vote now gives the SGA a total
of 37 voting representatives.

By STEVE DUNCAN Staff Writer

Wow. My word. Hoo-doggy. These are just a few of the thoughts that occurred to me at 8:07 last Friday
evening in Love Auditorium, as the Gala Benefit players sounded the opening aria Weichet nur, betrübte Schatten, BWV 202. The
week of the Vail Music Residency, bringing together all twelve “masters” along with internationally acclaimed soprano Sylvia McNair for a
concert by German masters of the 18th and 19th centuries. (In case you were wondering about the program note typo:
no, Franz Schubert was not born in 1979).

Writing a review about such a performance is problematic. What high points to select; what performers to congratulate when the
entire evening seemed to me a continuous show of flawless musicianship? Of course, Benjamin Kamins put his own brand of
sauce into...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The performance from Bach’s wedding cantata, the brilliant bassoon passages accompanying the second aria of the Bach. Of course, Joe
Robinson courted listeners with the delicate oboe obbligato in the fourth aria, while maintaining a sensitive and deferential role to
the vocal part as only a true master could accomplish. And Sylvia McNair. Of course, a brief reading of her
listed credentials and awards could not prepare me for her artistic devotion. What could I, the musical peon, have to
say intelligently about such an evening? Well, of course, I did have my favorites. Two works captivated me in particular.
First, the Trio in E-flat Major for Horn, Violin, and Piano, Op. 40, by Johannes Brahms (to be played, incidentally,
this Tuesday evening in Hodson Hall at the “Loud” concert). The passion and sense of urgency pouring from this performance
brought the audience to its feet at the piece’s close for the first time in the concert. Pianist Christopher O’Riley
deserves extra kudos for performing so fervently despite the head injury inflicted upon him immediately prior to the concert by
a hasty Chambers-goer (or, more accurately, by a hastily-pushed Chambers door). Franz Schubert’s Der Hirt auf dem Felsen, D. 965,
for soprano, clarinet, and piano, was next up on my favorites. Ms. McNair showed an astounding versatility of expression; at
times her voice could be lithe and delicately coy, while at other moments, she could steer the corners of Love—a
considerable feat given the auditorium’s dry acoustical environment. The evening’s concert served to raise funds for music scholarships and for
Classical 89.9 WDAV. Students and benefactors were treated to two hours of music that seemed natural and effortlessly exquisite, its
emotion conveyed as genuinely and gracefully as possible.

---

Affirmative News

Senior action at DC Slump

Opinions

MC?

Crossword

Editorial

Opinions

Sports

Kendall

The year in review

First Class Mail

U.S. Postage Paid

Permit #1

Davidson, NC 28036

Coming or going?: The year in review

By Naresh Nagella
Associate News Editor

At any college, things leave and things enter. To some, this might sound too simple, but it describes the 1996-1997
school year. The College underwent major changes and major losses in the past 29 weeks. Here are some...

Of course, the year began with the class of ‘96 gone and the class of ‘00 here, representing the first
of a new century of Davidsionians. Kegs completely left the court, and BYOB started. “Only nine beers per person of
drinking age” is the new rule. Fifty dollar parking stickers left, and eighty dollar parking tickets entered—the police department’s way
of inaugurating the new school year. The main computer center left its old home on Main Street and relocated in
Belk. Davidson vaulted from number eighteen on the U.S. News and World Report rankings and clawed its way to number
eleven. Hurricane Fran did not visit us, but Jane Goodall did. She packed Love Auditorium with a sold-out speech in
which she detailed her scientific accomplishments. The old “Check Chal” computers left the library, and the World Wide Web downloaded
Davidson into the 21st century. The Economics, Spanish, German, and Russian departments added...

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as closely as possible.
