THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 14, 1997

Benefit: “This is not just another expense item.”

Faculty from page 1

vice under twenty years. This plan, as Krentz sees it, would be more fair because it rewards seniority. President Kuykendall said in an interview that he will take a proposal to the Trustees at their meeting this month. Also, Kuykendall said, “I react negatively to the idea that the advisory council did not have enough information.”

Several professors worried that adopting the plan would damage faculty morale. They view the benefit as part of an “implicit contract,” said Professor of Psychology Cole Barton, at the forum. Fellow psychology professor John Kello concurred, saying he concluded from the forum that many professors saw the benefit as a “psychological operating contract.” Professor of French Alan Singerman said that adopting the proposal may cause some faculty members’ “feelings [to be] hurt because the commitment made to us by the College fifteen, ten years ago has not been kept.” He questioned whether the “loss of good will” among the faculty would justify the dollar amount which would be saved.

Kello said that the benefit had a symbolic value as well as a financial one. “This is not just another expense item,” he said. Professor of Economics Dennis Appleyard says, “There is a na-

By Ann Cup
News Editor

Three world religions were represented at the World Religions Forum on Tuesday night at the Carolina Inn. Deepa Kamath represented Hinduism, Saadia Bhatti Islam, and Matt Rich spoke on Christianity. The purpose of the evening was not to strike religious discord, but to respond to the question “What does the particular faith mean to those who are practicing it?” Once each person spoke on the history of his or her faith, a question-and-answer session followed. The forum’s discussion was “based on personal knowledge rather than academic,” according to chaplain Rob Spach.

Freshman Andrew Holbrook enjoyed the forum. “It was a terrific outlet to discuss different views. I learned a lot about different perspectives.” Kamath organized the forum as part of a spotlight on world religions. There was also a display in the Union Gallery. “Early this semester, I wanted to start a Hindu fellowship program,” she says. “Out of that discussion came the idea of the Religion Forum. My main concern was that I wanted to inform people about the misconceptions of world religions.” People practicing Judaism and Buddhism were also asked to speak, but were not present at the forum. “I was a little disappointed that Judaism and Buddhism could not be represented. That is a consequence of going to a school that is not very diverse,” says Kamath. On the other hand, Holbrook believes that the forum was successful because it allowed him to discuss the diversity that is sometimes hidden at Davidson. “There’s a lot of diversity, but people don’t see it because they are not talking about it,” he says. The event was sponsored by the Chaplain’s Office and the Dean Rusk Program.

World Religions at Davidson
Buddhist 4 .20%
Christian 1235 74%
Hindu 9 .50%
Islam 13 .75%
Jain 1 .06%
Jewish 14 .80%
Taoist 1 .06%
Unitarian 9 .50%
No Affiliation 91 5.3%
Religious Affiliation Unknown 275 16%

ture of an implicit contract,” but from his service on the council last year, he understands why the cuts have to be made. He also says the obligations of that contract are not necessarily clear. “It depends on how you interpret it,” he says. “What does ‘substantial tuition benefit program’ mean?” If one interprets that to mean providing 70 percent, he says, then the contract has not been broken. Legally, the benefit is not a contractual issue, because, like all benefits, it is not written into any employee’s contract.

Krentz, who is against the proposal, says it is “hard to know” how the adoption of the proposal would affect morale. He says that one of the keys to success for Davidson is “having faculty who are accessible and seriously interested in their students.” While not prophesying any catastrophe in faculty-student relations, he does say that “anything that makes anyone less dedicated to the institution is a potential danger.” “The passage of the proposal will undermine at least a little the sense that the College is behind the faculty,” Krentz says. Associate Professor of Religion Trent Foley agrees that the adoption of the proposal may cause some faculty to question the College’s dedication to them. “Some faculty may say, ‘I give my life to this school ... I bend over backwards to do everythingthe school asks of me.’ I can see some faculty getting burned out and asking, “‘What’s the point?’”

Appleyard, Foley, and Dees deliver message of tolerance and love

By ANN CULP
News Editor

Director of the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) Morris Dees “uses law like a sword,” said Associate Professor of Sociology Janet Shannon in her introduction to his lecture on Wednesday night in the 900 Room. Dees displayed his strength in his speech, pointing out numerous cases he argued in courts throughout the U.S. Because we are “still judged by the color of skin instead of by the content of skin,” there are many reasons to distrust the justice system according to Dees. Yet, “during all my years of work, I have learned that there is actually more we have in common than what divides us,” says Dees.

Dees has fought a reverse discrimination case in Georgia, a hate crime case in Oregon, and many others. “If America is so great because of its diversity, then why can’t we all get along? Why are we so divided? Why so many hate crimes?” asks Dees. “Our nation is great because of our diversity, not in spite of it.”

The SPLC has implemented the “Teaching Tolerance” program in 55,000 schools. Its videos have won Academy Awards and a magazine is published by Dees’ organization twice a year. Although Dees concentrates on racism, he is also concerned about other issues. He believes that America is deeply divided in response to the question “Who is a loyal American?” “The true patriots line up not in militia columns, but they line up at the ballot box,” he says.

Sexual orientation provides another avenue where Dees’ argument has contributed to landmark decisions. In Wilmington, he defended a gay man who was injured in an anti-homosexual incident. Dees also believes that people are divided over issues of economics, but “the deepest division in America is that between racial lines,” says Dees, citing the O.J. Simpson trial as a prime example in which white America’s opinion was the exact opposite of black America’s.

The basic underlying battle, according to Dees, is over “Whose America is this?” “Between now and the year 2050, those in the majority right now are going to be in the minority. There is going to be an enormous amount of readjustment and the probability of riots is severe. We have got to learn tolerance,” says Dees. The answer, Dees says, lies in love. “Until we have love between our brothers and sisters to share, we cannot bridge the divide,” he says. “We think love is a simple word, but to really love somebody means to do it despite their differences.”

Kuykendall all pointed out that this is a particular benefit enjoyed only by those employees whose children will be attending college. Kuykendall says that “morale is complicated ... It is at once a very real and very intangible thing.” Those employees who will not enjoy the benefit may not be saddened that resources are being diverted from a benefit they will never use. They may gain more generous benefits in other areas.

At the forum, many professors seemed disappointed that the full tuition benefit for dependents attending Davidson was being removed. Council chair and Professor of German Hansford Epes said the 100 percent reimbursement was removed to mitigate parental pressure to force an unwilling student to attend Davidson because it was cheaper. The council also thought it unfair that students who could gain admission into Davidson were receiving a more generous benefit than those who could not get in.

Representatives from the council also pointed out that the proposal would allow dependents attending other schools to apply scholarships and financial aid to the 30 percent of tuition for which they would be responsible. In the past, any outside monetary awards were subtracted from the percentage covered by Davidson. But the council representatives also conceded that most faculty children would not qualify for financial aid, though many children of staff would benefit from the change.

Attention High School students grades 10-12! If you are interested in community diversity issues, Common Ground for Young Adults may be for you. Our first meeting will be held on Thursday, May 1 at 7 p.m. in the Davidson Town Hall Rec Room. Free Pizza! Questions? Call Caroline Bynum @ 896-6638

It’s still not too late to turn in your resume to be on The Davidsonian Fall 1997 Editorial Board!