3 Sie Wake Forest Sports Information @ The 5,478 that attended Wednesday’s game in Belk Arena may have represented the second-largest crowd in the venue’s history, but Wake Forest coach Dave Odom scoffed at the fact that it wasn’t a sellout.

By Michael J. Kruse
Editor in Chief

The Wildcats certainly can’t blame Wednesday’s loss to Wake Forest on the Belk Arena marketing this season. Wildcat coach Bob McKillop said in the postgame press conference, “It’s a great statement about our players as well. crowd. The second-largest showing But Wake Forest coach Dave Odom was unimpressed. In fact, he was utterly disappointed that the game was not a sell-out, and he went out of his way to throw a warning to Davidson or anyone who was listening.

“It was a in the history of the eight-year-old facility — the official count was 5,478, behind only the 5,854 who attended the Duke-Davidson clash Dec. 21, 1989 — witnessed the Demon Deacons’ comeback victory. Wednesday’s throng also included a best-ever 851 students — an astonishing 53 percent of the student body. We work very hard to be the best team that we can be. We work very hard to be the best team that we can be. I’m a little surprised the place wasn’t packed,” the 12th-year coach said. “I think Davidson’s team deserves that, I was disappointed for them.

“Davidson has worked awfully hard to build up their program. It makes me wonder if we ought to come back, and that hurts Davidson College,” he continued. “I think it’s a testament to (Director of Athletics Marketing and Promotions) Alec McAlister and (Director of Athletics) Jim Murphy and their commitment to “If you find any other Division I players who go out in the community and sell their program more, I'd like to see them.”

“It was a good opportunity for people to show that they appreciate what Davidson has done. It’s a shame.”

By MICHAEL J. Kruse
Editor in Chief

The men’s basketball team traditionally plays a few Division III teams every season. Two years ago, the Wildcats faced and beat Catholic, Rhodes, and Williams. Last winter, it was Lynchburg, Sewanee, and Connecticut College. This year’s non-scholarship fodder: Tufts and Carnegie Mellon, whose Men’s Basketball Notebook Jumbos and Tartans fell to Davidson this week 89-68 and 91-46, respectively.

These somewhat curious games with such tiny hoops schools — whose enrollments, by the way, are almost always still larger than Davidson’s — prompt fans of the Division I Wildcats to ask one straightforward and understandable question: Why? Why play Tufts — an all but guaranteed win with seemingly few benefits — when lower-level Division I teams such as Winthrop or Radford of the Big South would offer almost the same chance for a win, but against a scholarship opponent?

“The NCAA looks at how many teams you beat in the Top 100,” coach Bob McKillop said yesterday in his office. “So whether you play a Division III team or a team ranked below 200 (in the Division I ratings), it makes no difference.” And in terms of power ratings, which are often used at the end of the season to decide which teams receive at-large bids, playing Division III opponents actually helps small conference teams like Davidson because such games don’t count in official Division I rankings. As far as the power ratings are concerned, playing the Jumbos or Tartans is far better than facing — and, God forbid, losing to — a Division I cellar-dweller.

Plus, for Davidson, the issue of academic integrity is involved. At least in part, the men’s basketball staff tries to put together a schedule that features some Why Division II? McKillop has answers tions — or at least some semblance of admission requirements for athletes. “I'd love to have a tournament where we play Harvard, Northwestern, Vanderbilt, or Stanford, or Ivy or Patriot League teams, schools with academic integrity that compares to ours,” McKillop explained. “Unfortunately, we don’t have that luxury.” Problem is, most if not all Division I schools that would agree to come to Davidson would then ask for a return trip. “For us to fly to Palo Alto to play Stanford, it doesn’t make sense financially to have too many of those games on your schedule,” McKillop said.

Also, many of the nation’s top-notch basketball schools would host the Wildcats in a second, but would not return to Belk. “We could go to Maryland, they’d give us $20,000,” McKillop said, “but they wouldn’t come back.” And Davidson, in the interest of ticket and concessions revenue, has to get its home games somewhere — and that’s where the Division III teams come in. Tufts and Carnegie Mellon relish the opportunity to play a Division I squad, but don’t then demand a return trip to Medford, Mass., or Pittsburgh, Pa., respectively. That allows the Wildcat program to put its money towards things like travel expenses for the trip to the Fiesta Bowl Classic in Tucson, Ariz. later this month.

“There are so many factors,” McKillop said, “and one is not really more important than the other.”

Wildcats notch No. 1,000

The Wildcats’ triumph over Carnegie Mellon Saturday night was the program’s 1,000th victory. A win over VMI last February was thought to be Davidson’s 1,000th, but the Southern Conference re-figured its stats this summer and arrived at a slightly different figure, making the win over the Tartans the real milestone — or so say the league’s statisticians ... In what ultimately amounted to his worst effort of the season, Mark Donnelly was limited by Wake Forest’s defense to seven points on 3-for-11 shooting. “He has our respect,” Wake Forest coach Dave Odom said after his team’s win. “He nailed us last year (17 points), and we didn’t want that to happen again.” ... After using the same starting five in the Ton, Donnelly, Ben Ebong, Landry Kosmalski, and Stephen Marshall — McKillop toyed with the lineup.This week in an effort to provide added spark off the bench, Ton, Davor Halbauer, Donnelly, Kosmalski, and Marshall got the starting nod Nov. 29 against Tufts and Wednesday against Wake. Against Carnegie Mellon Saturday, Billy Armstrong replaced Halbauer, who sat out due to sickness.

Odom on this year’s Wildcats: “I think this is Davidson’s best team in 15 years. I think this team beats the team from two years ago handily.” That squad, led by all-conference seniors Brandon Williams, Quinn Harwood, and Chris Alpert, went 25-5 and earned an NIT berth after being upset by Western Carolina in the league championship game. Alpert is scouting college games this season for the New York Knicks. Williams is playing in the CBA for LaCrosse, Wis.

Armstrong money from stripe: After making his first two free throw attempts of this season Saturday night against Carnegie Mellon, Armstrong is working on a streak of 17 consecutive makes from the charity stripe. The senior co-captain guard made 26 of 29 freebies last year.

Wednesday’s loss marked Davidson’s 18th in a row against Wake Forest. The last Wildcat win over the Deacons was a 75-72 count at the old Charlotte Coliseum in the 1978-79 season. Over the last five years, ACC teams hold a combined 44-2 record against Southern Conference foes.

Necmi Ton, the father of Ali Ton and a professional basketball coach in Turkey’s first division, will be in Davidson for the next two months. He saw the Wildcats in regular season action for the first time at the Wake Forest game. McKillop was recently chosen as a Congressman for the National Association of Basketball Coaches (NABC).

David Burns, who scored a career-high 25 points on a program record eight three-pointers in Saturday night’s romp over Carnegie Mellon, had the rare opportunity of facing off against his namesake — the Tartans’ David Burns, a 6-3 freshman forward. “That was kind of scary,” Davidson’s Burns said. “I’ve never met someone with my own name before.” “There can be only one,” he added.

Once again, postgame praise: Late woes from page 20. Another score at this point would have done wonders in sending Davidson to its first home victory over an ACC opponent in eight tries. But a Jerry Braswell three-pointer less than 30 seconds later quieted the raucous crowd of 5,478 and a lay-in by Deacon rookie star Robert O’Kelley cut the Wildcats’ advantage to a single point going into the game’s final five minutes. Davidson had missed its chance.

“I thought we played a terrific basketball game for about 34 or 35 minutes,” McKillop explained. “Then the experience and poise factor took its toll on us. When they had to step up and take big shots, they made big shots.” Something the Wildcats weren’t able to do. After Halbauer’s shot gave Davidson its game-high six-point lead, the Wildcats shot 4-for-17 from the floor the rest of the way — and one of those four made baskets was a meaningless Ali Ton layup with one second remaining.

“Maybe if we had made just one shot down the stretch, stick a bit of a dagger in them, maybe we could’ve gone home a winner,” McKillop said. Once again, an opposing coach of Big Time University praised the discipline and gutsiness of McKillop’s scrappy No Name College warriors. “We feel very fortunate to get out of here alive,” Wake coach Dave Odom said. “I don’t think Davidson will lose again on their home court this season. We beat a very good basketball team tonight.”

Such kind postgame praise in the wake of a loss is old hat for the Wildcats. Whether by 35 to Duke or five to Wake, a loss is a loss. And if Davidson has hopes and even expectations of making its mark on college basketball’s national scene in the next three months — which they do — they must start taking advantage of late-game opportunities and earn wins rather than respectable losses.

“We’ve had opportunities to step forward and be there in the situations we’ve dreamed about and worked for,” McKillop said. “It’s on the table for us. Now we’ve got to do it, we’ve got to take it.”

Tufts wasn't tough for long Nov. 29 at Belk Arena. Davidson overcame a poor shooting performance to defeat the Division II Jumbos 89-68. The Wildcats made only 42 percent of their field goals, including just 22 percent from beyond the three-point line. Davidson converted just three of 18 attempted treys in the second half.

“We had good looks the whole night,” coach Bob McKillop said. “That is a good statement about our offensive performance. But we couldn't make many shots. The operation was a success, but the patient died.”

What the Wildcats lacked offensively was more than compensated for on the defensive end. Davidson forced 27 Jumbo turnovers and held Tufts to just 41 percent shooting. Ali Ton had what is believed to be a school-record 11 steals.

David Burns scored 25 points in just 17 minutes to lead the Wildcats to a 91-46 rout over Carnegie Mellon, Davidson's second and final Division III opponent this season. It was the program's 1000th victory. After struggling to a 9-9 tie in the first four minutes of play, the Wildcats raced to a 26-0 run — sparked by two Burns three-pointers — over the next seven minutes to dismantle the Tartans.

“Our goal tonight was to make as many successive stops as possible on the defensive end,” coach Bob McKillop said. “I think we did pretty well.” Burns shot 8-of-13 from the field, all from three-point land. His eight treys set the all-time Davidson mark for made threes in a game, eclipsing Derek Rucker’s mark of seven set in 1988.