12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1997

‘There was total clarity in the music for me that led me to understand what is universal about me as
a person’ Krause interview page 9

M: So what came next?

K: I started playing with Katherine (Palmer) and we formed Ecdysis. I wrote a lot of music and it really
encouraged me to listen to what was really within me. Something I didn’t even know that I had — I
hadn't ever planned on it coming out. I think I learned a lot at Davidson with the song-writing and the
people — from the very beginning — that listened. And I feel like in the beginning I had a lot
of dorky songs. I mean, I felt like a dork.

M: But you had quite a following, as I remember it.

K: I know — it was so meaningful. The first time Katherine and I played down at the Outpost, there
were a bunch of people there and they were so quiet, you couldn’t hear a sound. People were listening. We
had been so used to playing outside under trees that it was different to have a captive audience. We eventually
started doing that and it was so great that people were so supportive. I think all people want to hear
a voice, an artistic voice. That is very interesting to me to wonder what it is that people want to
say. I was also meeting some other musicians on campus.

M: When did you decide to study music?

K: First semester, sophomore year, actually, I switched majors. I went from Biology to Music — I hear in myself
that music was the most clear to me. I love Biology, I wanted to study plants — I just love
trees, but I realized that it just wasn’t me and I think I had to express something and I couldn’t
do that in Biology. I loved nature, though, and I still do.

M: Was it hard to study music and try to create your own at the same time?

K: Well, with my focus being music composition, it’s hard to write so much at one time. And so at
some point, I was writing a choral piece or a string quartet and I would neglect the guitar. I played
a little piano at that time, but there was so much music in my academics — in my life in
general — there was just so much that one can do at one time.

M: Did you decide to go abroad at any point junior year?

K: I really felt strongly that I needed to go to Chicago and I guess what drew me there was
that I had been there to work with inner-city kids at a learning center and it kind of sent me
back there. It wasn’t music in particular, even though in the back of my mind I knew Northwestern had a
really good music program. But really what I wanted to do was to understand the inner-city culture. I worked there
all last semester and through the summer. It was interesting because with any new place, I guess anyone experiences that
aloneness and what was clear to me was coming out. I wasn't inhibited. My songs rang true. I wasn’t writing
them for any public. I was writing them in the privacy of my own room and playing them.

M: So your time at Northwestern was conducive to your song-writing?

K: Yes, one song after another just came and I hadn't intended them to come. I had intended to work
with the inner-city kids, but there was something that felt I had to be more responsible to. My time with
the kids taught me more about sharing with people and the importance of that. I had wanted to go there
to educate them, that was my motivation, and I soon realized that it was condescending if I didn’t look at
them to see who they are as people.

M: What did this do for your music?

K: I think that, most of all, it taught me that there is no difference between me and any other
human being. And that’s kind of the universality of music as I see it. We are all the same and
that seems like an obvious thing to say, but it hits me hard because I know it’s true. Having the
experience always seems to put meaning behind those simple things we say without thinking. And it’s my world and those
kids come out in my music even though they are not obviously voiced through it. They were coming out through
that universality that has to be in music. I look for that in artists and people. I look for so
much in artists and...I respect so much that artists can do. But when there is a lack of honesty, I
am disheartened. So many do not match their actions to their words. There is so much talk. People can talk
about injustice, but I think that people can be overly self-righteous and manipulative. I have always been hurt by artists
and teachers who manipulate like that.

M: Does this serve as inspiration in some strange way?

K: I think that it is why I have to do music. The only way for art to be real
is just the pursuit of honesty and personal truths — that is what it’s taught me.

M: You have a CD coming out soon.

K: Yes, I just ran into a man in a bread store — I was always in this bread store
— and this man who worked there was really friendly. Somehow we started talking about music, which is really strange
because I don’t usually mention music. But he offered me a number of a friend who had a studio. I
initially just thought whatever, that’s kind of silly because I have no reason to need to record. The music was
for me. But I ended up calling him. I don’t know why. I think out of pure curiosity.

M: But it worked out?

K: Well, the guy, his name is Joe, invited me in and it was amazing. We just sat there, talked
and shared music. He was just interested in music — interested in my music.

M: It sounds as if your semester away was integral to where you are now.

K: I met so many people there. I was in Evanston (the town which houses Northwestern) and I was at
an art fair on one of the streets and there was this man who shared my last name — Krause.
He was a sculptor from New Mexico. And I was drawn to his work, there was a certain balance in
his work. We just started talking about the struggle that artists have in the world. And then he said that
it was necessary for artists to travel. He also said that an artist who is true to his or her
art will be supported by what he called “art angels” along the way. That there will be art angels who
will take care of you. I was skeptical of the idea of the angel because of the pointed implications of
the word. But I thought about it and it made sense to me that there were art angels who had
taken care of me. These art angels have guided me to these people and places in order to do this.

M: And you never meant for this to happen?

K: It is overwhelming because of my non-intention in pursuing music. I think that is a major thing the CD
has taught me. It came because I was writing music for myself.

M: What does it feel like to think that this music that you have written for yourself will be listened
to when you are not even around?

K: It kind of blows my mind, but it always stays the same. I remember that when I did decide
that I would record I thought to myself that I had to do this because I wanted to be able
to tangibly give this to my friends. Because my friends, particularly Davidson people, have listened and cared. It has made
a difference to them in their lives. They have let me know this and part of my responsibility is to
understand that I can do this and if I can live up to who I am supposed to be, I
can affect people. We all can. We all have these gifts that we can use to affect peoples’ lives and
help people to see themselves clearer.

M: Hence the CD title, “Clarity?”

K: There was total clarity in the music for me that led me to understand what is universal about me
as a person. I see myself in every person I meet and likewise. We are all one. We are mirrors
of each other. If someone sees themselves voiced in me, it is my responsibility to let them see themselves in
me. That’s what recording can be for people. It’s exciting because I think that people can see themselves more clearly
with the music that has been written. That's what excites me. It’s not that my CD is out there —
that my name is on something. I think that it is pretty irrelevant to music which just had to be
written. The music exists on its own. People want to hear something that was conceived honestly and I feel true
to music.

AKUDZUE ON SOUTH BROAD
International cuisine with a southern twist
259 South Broad Street, Mooresville, North Carolina 28115
704-663-1859

ON SOUTH BROAD
704-663-1859
International cuisine with a southern twist
259 South Broad Street, Mooresville, North Carolina 28115

Buy DC Films T-Shirts! $10 Each
SHORT SLEEVE SHIRTS ARE AVAILABLE AT TICKET OFFICE OR TABLES OUTSIDE THE UNION. OCT. 21-23 10:30-2:30
