Davidson wins a fall classic

GREENVILLE, S.C. — This was the greatest Wildcat athletic event I have ever seen. The Davidson-Furman women’s soccer game Tuesday night took two hours and a penalty-kick shoot-out to decide a winner. But that doesn’t tell the whole story. It doesn’t even come close.

With an emotional loss to Furman a week earlier fresh on their minds, the Wildcats returned to Stone Stadium seeking revenge. What they got was a classic they will remember long after this season is over. Two Paladin shots caromed off the post in the first half before they were cleared away by a Davidson defense that was missing starter Natalie Stumpf, who sat out due to a knee injury. Meanwhile, in the press box, Furman’s men’s soccer player Ryan Higgenbotham oozed with confidence, claiming that Davidson’s men’s team was a fluke and boasting that his Paladins would win if they met again in the tournament.

When play resumed on the pitch, Davidson came out as intense as if the Paladins had taken their wallets. It might have been a little too intense, as Kelly Rennick was slapped with a yellow card for dissent in the 55th minute. Ten minutes later, Wildcat goalkeeper Allie Noznesky stopped a header by Paladin Leah Versteegen. It was the first of a plethora of jaw-dropping saves.

Then came the first in a series of momentum swings. With 28:16 left in regulation, Rhina Roberts was taken down in the box, giving Davidson a golden opportunity to strike first. But Amy Balsinger’s penalty kick skimmed the cross-bar as it sailed over the goal, and the game remained scoreless. In the next 20 minutes, two Wildcats sustained injuries and were taken off the field. But after short breaks, Roberts and Kelly Schmidt each returned to the game determined to play through pain. And with seven minutes left, Kate McKnight gave the Wildcats the lead on a long shot that barely went over Paladin goalkeeper Jen McNutt and hit the crossbar before spinning awkwardly over the goal line and into the left side of the net.

It appeared that Davidson had its revenge. But great games appear to be won and lost several times before the outcome is set in stone. With less than a minute left in regulation, the Paladins applied enormous pressure. Versteegen took the final shot, which looked eerily like McKnight’s goal. Noznesky couldn’t reach it as the ball hit the crossbar and bounced back into the field. As time expired, the Wildcats celebrated because they thought they had won. The Paladins celebrated because they thought they had sent the game into overtime. The referee ran to his linesman to seek assistance on the call. The linesman had sprinted from the end line to midfield after the play, which is standard procedure when the ball crosses the goal line but is quickly knocked out of the goal. The referee signaled for a goal, which officially came with only nine seconds remaining in regulation.

This play alone was symbolic of the season. They came so close only to have something bizarre ruin everything. But there were still 30 minutes to go. As the teams prepared for overtime, the scoreboard flashed results from other first-round games. Eventual champion UNC Greensboro had defeated East Tennessee St. 11-0, sending a message that whichever squad eventually won this contest would most likely lose to the Spartans in the next round. But none of the Davidson or Furman players seemed to care.

In the sixth minute of overtime, Rennick was ejected when she received her second yellow card. She had kicked the ball away after she was called for a foul, and the referee had seen enough. Again, misfortune.

See Fall Classic on page 13

Sean Lutmer

Tommy Dugan was one of several Wildcat quarterbacks who eluded Hampden-Sydney defenders to propel Davidson to a 43-0 shutout victory.

Wildcats pounce Tigers

By Michael J. Kruse
Editor in Chief

Teams like the 1997 Hampden-Sydney Tigers exist for one reason: So teams like the 1997 Davidson Wildcats can snap five-game losing streaks. The football team halted a mind-numbingly frustrating winless skid Saturday, beating the hapless Tigers 43-0 at Richardson Field. The victory was the Wildcats’ first since Sept. 21 — a 42-14 Centennial romp over Sewanee — and Hampden-Sydney’s woeful season continued to the tune of 0-8.

“We told the kids all week long that as long as we played like we had all season long, we’d win,” coach Tim Landis said. And for the heretofore struggling Wildcats, Hampden-Sydney was just what the doctor ordered. The Tigers, who actually had more first downs than the Wildcats (16-14), turned the ball over seven times — two interceptions and five fumbles — en route to their ninth straight loss dating back to last season.

For Davidson, which gained a shockingly low 193 yards of total offense in amassing a season-high 43 points, it was simply a case of capitalizing on Hampden-Sydney miscues. Near the end of the first quarter, Tiger center Todd Ketcham’s snap fluttered over quarterback Karl Tuhey’s head. The loose ball was recovered by Wildcat rookie standout Bo Henderson 17 yards behind the line of scrimmage at the Hampden-Sydney 32-yard line. On the ensuing Davidson drive, fullback Eric Ferguson, battling a sprained ankle suffered last week versus Randolph-Macon, rumbled into the end zone from four yards out, giving Davidson the early 7-0 lead with 12:10 to go in the second quarter. Two Tiger drives later, Freeman Belser, another freshman who has starred in recent weeks...For the Wildcats’ defense, intercepted a Tuhey pass deep in Hampden-Sydney territory. Tailback Nate Hagerman took advantage of the favorable field position, going 16 yards on the Wildcats’ third play of the drive to put Davidson up 14-0 with 7:53 left before halftime. “It was a perfect pitch by (quarterback) Shaun Tyrance and the offensive line blocked so well,” the junior said of his first touchdown of the year. “I looked up the field and I was surprised how wide open it was. I just jogged into the end zone.”

And with less than a minute remaining before intermission, cornerback Clif Henry picked off his second pass of the fall and returned it 52 yards for the Wildcats’ third score of the half. In the second period, tight end Wes Jones hauled in an 11-yard touchdown toss from Tyrance, backup fullback Ellis Boyle notched his first career touchdown on a 5-yard run, and Lorenzo Moll added a 3-yard scamper.

“We definitely feel like we’ve been given a wind,” Hagerman said. “We’re very frustrated we dropped five. I think we should’ve lost only one of them. But the opportunity to have a winning season”—which would take wins in all three of the Wildcats’ remaining games, including Nov. 22 against I-AA scholarship opponent South Florida—“is a solid goal we’re excited about.”

Wildcats terrorize Terriers
By Dante Motz
Senior Staff Writer

Form finally held. After defeating Southern Conference teams that it was not favored to beat and losing to conference teams that it should have beaten, the men’s soccer team triumphed this week with wins over VMI and Wofford. The victories give the Wildcats the second seed in this week’s Southern Conference tournament. Davidson tied Furman for second place in the conference, but the Wildcats' regular season victory over the Paladins gives Davidson the higher seed.

Tonight the Wildcats host seventh seed VMI at 6:15 in the quarterfinals, a team they faced and conquered only a week ago in Lexington. Sparked by two Drew Lindsey goals in the first four minutes of the contest, Davidson coasted to a 6-1 victory. “The guys just came ready to play,” said coach Charlie Slagle. “We took control early and never looked back.” For the Wildcats (9-10, 5-2), it was their first rout and highest scoring output of the season. “We just did what we had to do,” said Slagle. “We played very well and we had that killer instinct.”

On Friday night, the regular season home finale, the Wildcats defeated Wofford, 2-1, on a sloppy Richardson Field. It rained virtually the entire game. “We played well, but not great,” said Slagle. “Give credit to Wofford. They played tough and never gave up.” Hart Roper scored on a header three minutes into the game, their first of two goals. Pat Miller, in transition, spotted Jeff Weekes, who found Hart Roper for the goal. With twenty minutes left in the first half, Andrew Holbrook, who checked into the game just 30 seconds earlier, simply beat his man and found Randy Culbertson for the goal to give the Wildcats a 2-0 lead. Greg Fleming scored early in the second half for the Terriers (3-15, 2-5) to halve the Davidson lead. Wofford would get no closer.

The Wildcats had other goal-scoring opportunities, but two proved to be enough on Friday. The Davidson defense continues to dominate, allowing just one second-half shot. The Wildcats outshot the Terriers 16-5 for the game. The win pushed goalkeeper Brad Stroble’s record to 9-8, the first time it has eclipsed .500 all season.

Penalty kicks. A kick-by-kick analysis of the women’s soccer shoot-out at Furman, page 13.

Men’s Soccer
The Southern Conference tournament begins tonight. Story, page 14.

Field Hockey comes up short. The Wildcats lost this weekend in the Deep South tournament. Story, page 15.

Volleyball sweeps up competition. Davidson didn’t drop a single game this weekend. Story, page 15.

Swim teams host only meet of semester. Both groups of Wildcat swimmers lost to Virginia Tech and William and Mary. Story, page 15.

Cross Country improves. The men’s and women's squads continue to climb up the conference ladder at the league championships in Statesboro, Ga. Story, page 15.

Hampden-Sydney 0

Men’s Soccer
Wildcats 6, VMI 1
Wildcats 2, Wofford 1

Women’s Soccer
Wildcats 1, Furman 1 (Wildcats advance on penalty kicks)
North Carolina St. 4, Wildcats 1
UNC Greensboro 4, Wildcats 0

Field Hockey
Appalachian St. 4, Wildcats 3

Volleyball
Wildcats 3, East Tennessee St. 0
Wildcats 3, Appalachian St. 0

Noznesky made mind-boggling saves throughout regulation and 30 minutes of overtime before saving four of five penalty kicks in the shootout. Her performance at Furman led the Wildcats into the semifinals and earned her an all-tournament team selection.

Football
Saturday @ Centre (1:30 p.m., WCGC 1270 AM, WSAT 1280 AM)

Men’s Soccer
Today vs. VMI (6:15 p.m.)

Volleyball
Wednesday vs. Campbell (7:00 p.m.)
Saturday @ Chattanooga (2:00 p.m.)
Sunday @ Western Carolina (2:00 p.m.)

Swimming & Diving
Saturday @ Richmond (1:00 p.m.)

Women’s Basketball
Sunday vs. Fort Bragg (3:00 p.m., exhibition)

Men’s Soccer vs. VMI
Tonight
Richardson Field
7:00 p.m.

The Wildcats face the Keydets in the opening round of the Southern Conference tournament. Davidson, the No. 2 seed in the draw, looks to advance to Saturday’s semifinal action at Furman with a win over VMI.