DAVIDSONIAN

_ SPORTS

MONDAY, APRIL 21, 1997 16

App. St. sweeps Wildcats

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

Appalachian St. beat Davidson 21-17 yesterday.

And the schools weren’t playing football.

In a game that was played at a high school stadium in Boone where straight center was 358 feet and the wind was blowing out, the two teams compiled a total of 40 hits — including 13 home runs — in 91 at-bats, as the Mountaineers (15-30, 8-16 SC) capped a surprising three-game sweep of the Wildcats (18-29, 8-15).

“Today was just a mystery, a strange kind of day,” said coach Dick Cooke, whose squad has now lost five games in a row and must settle for either the sixth or seventh seed in this weekend’s Southern Conference tournament in Charleston, S.C.

“There were not a lot of balls hit on the ground. Every guy that came to the plate from either club, you thought he could really hit it out.”

And lumbering first baseman Brad Edwards did it three times for the Wildcats, and finished 5-for-6 with seven RBIs, rivaling Gus Quattlebaum’s record-setting four-homer, ten-RBI game earlier this season.

Luke Goodwin broke out of a recent slump, going 4-for-6, while left fielder Brian Joyce went 3-for-4 with two walks.

Quattlebaum, Jeff Coker, and Kurt Davis all added two hits.

Appalachian had its fair share of hits as well, as Cliff Cameron and John Anderson launched two homers apiece, and Chris Behne had three hits in five at-bats and drove in three runs.

The Mountaineers built a 13-5 advantage after four innings and were up 20-9 after six. The Wildcats countered with four runs in both the seventh and the eighth, but ultimately fell short in the slugfest.

“This one was not over until the last out,” Cooke said. “When you play in a park like that, pitchers try to be too fine and wind up missing big time.”

Scheduled Wildcat starter Mordecai Stolk was scratched before the game with a stiff back, giving Ricky Paugh the spot start.

Paugh, who turned in a pair of solid outings against N.C. State and Duke earlier this week, didn’t fare as well this time around, giving up 12 runs in 3 1/3 innings.

Relievers Brandon Davis and Mike DeSimone really didn’t do any better. But then again, none of the five Appalachian hurlers did particularly well either, giving up 21 hits and five round trippers.

Saturday’s doubleheader, on the other hand, was as pure as Sunday’s contest was ridiculous, with Appalachian winning both relative pitchers’ duels 6-3 and 6-5.

The games were played at another high school field in Granite Falls, this one having slightly more appropriate dimensions.

Staff ace Jonathan Coulombe pitched a complete game, but the Mountaineers scored three runs in the fourth to take the lead for good.

In the seven-inning nightcap, the Mountaineers scored three in the bottom of the sixth to pull out the come-from-behind victory.

Goodwin starred for the Wildcats, going 3-for-4 with a run and an RBI, and Edwards and Ryan Conatser each picked up two base hits. Quattlebaum contributed a double and two RBIs.

The Wildcats open league tourney play Thursday at 7,000-seat Joseph P. Riley Park, a state-of-the-art, waterfront facility. Cooke called it “perhaps the finest college baseball facility in the nation” after Wednesday’s game at Duke.

Coulombe will start Thursday and Stolk is tentatively slated for Friday’s game. If Stolk’s back fails to show improvement this week, Eric Bowers will probably get the nod, according to Cooke.

SHING

SM

Will Bradshaw
Dana Casner prepares to serve late in her win over a North Carolina player last week.

She finished third in No. 1 singles this weekend at the Southern Conference tournament in Greenville, S.C. The team finished fourth.

KUDZU ON SOUTH BROAD

International cuisine with a southern twist

An 1859 House, Fresh Ingredients, Homemade Bread & Desserts, Vegetarian Selections, Fine Wines & Beers

PATIO NOW OPEN!

Lunch: Tues - Fri 11:30-2:00, from $3.95
Dinner: Tues - Sat 5:30 - 'til, from $7.95
Open Sundays for Easter, Mother's Day and Davidson Graduation

259 South Broad Street, Mooresville, 663-1859

Off Premise Catering & Private Rooms for Special Occasions