13 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10

A great day to be a Wildcat
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

Every day is a great day to be a Wildcat. At least that’s what they say. A nice thought—laced with
bulls--t, however. Even Wildcats have bad days. Saturday, though, was definitely not one of them, as the men’s and women’s
hoopsters each won in a Belk Arena double dip.

Two Davidson basketball games in a row? For me, a little slice of heaven. But as the basketball bonanza unfolded,
my already lofty expectations were easily exceeded. The women’s undercard with App. St. quickly became the main event. John Filar’s
bunch—hard-luck losers of five straight with a bad habit of playing lifelessly in the first half and then making a
frenzied catch-up run in the second, only to ultimately succumb—jumped out to leads of 11-4 and 17-9. Perhaps Filar gave
his halftime speech before the game.

But the Mountaineers, who went 14-0 in Southern play last year and, in my book, are still the cream of
the league crop, embarked on a 12-0 run. The ladies in red and black withstood the Appalachian spurt and bounced
back to earn a 40-33 halftime lead. They continued to dictate the game in the second half and held a
comfy 74-65 lead with but 4:47 to go. But the Mountaineers inched back and Meredith Thompson’s three-point prayer from the
left wing was answered with 20 ticks left, giving the evil daughters of Boone an unthinkable 79-76 advantage.

By this time, much of the men’s crowd of 3,378 had filed in, creating a frantic horde of Belk onlookers.
With the Wildcats and their sudden mass of faithful staring at a sickening sixth successive downer, Kerry Brown saved the
day, banking in a three from the right side to force overtime. There, KB continued her role as wonderwoman, giving
Davidson the lead for good with a jumper at the 1:35 juncture. With the win that was rightfully theirs all
game long, the women primed the crowd for the upcoming men’s action. And people say women’s basketball is boring.

I had two questions as the nightcap began: (1) Why aren’t there more doubleheaders like this at Belk, and (2)
Who was wearing No. 5 for the Wildcats and what had he done with Mark Donnelly? But Donnelly, mired in
an 0-for-17 slump from three-point range going into Saturday’s contest, broke out of his uncharacteristic funk by nailing 5-of-9 bombs
on his way to a game-high 24 points, as the Wildcats coasted to an anticlimactic (how could it have been
anything but?) 79-68 victory.

“This is just a great day to be at Belk Arena,” said men’s coach Bob McKillop. “With the women playing
the way they did and the crowd responding to them the way they did, and the way the crowd responded
to us, it’s just a great day to be a Wildcat.” Remember though, Coach, every day is a great day
to be a Wildcat.

Men move into second-place tie
By DANIEL MOTZ
Staff Writer

DAVIDSON, Feb. 8—Mark Donnelly broke out of a severe shooting slump on Saturday, scoring 24 points in leading Davidson to
a 79-68 victory over Furman in the second half of the Athletic Hall of Fame Day doubleheader. Donnelly, who made
9-of-16 field goals, including 5-of-9 from three-point land, had missed 19 straight three-pointers. As coach Bob McKillop said, “Mark is
back.”

“I knew I had my legs early on. Even the first couple of misses felt good,” said the junior guard.
“I know I’m a good enough shooter that they’re eventually going to fall. I just have to believe in myself.”

Despite facing early deficits of 7-0 and 18-11, a Donnelly free throw with 6:26 remaining in the first half gave
the Wildcats the lead for good at 25-24. Donnelly’s first trey gave Davidson a 36-26 lead with 1:30 before halftime,
as the Wildcats went to the locker room with a 36-29 advantage.

Davidson (13-9, 6-4 SC) maintained control in the second half. The Wildcats never mounted a knife-in-the-back spurt to completely put
Furman away, but the victory was still convincing. A pair of Matt Schrecengost free throws did pull the Paladins (8-13,
3-7) to within six (67-61) at the 4:54 mark, but the Wildcats responded with an 11-2 run over the next
four minutes.

“When Donnelly’s shooting the ball like that, there’s not much you can do,” said Furman coach Joe Cantafio. “He has
the quickest release I’ve seen in a long time.”

Landry Kosmalski also played a significant role in the Davidson win, with his fifth double-double of the season, scoring 18
points and hauling down 15 rebounds. “He’s just an absolute animal,” said Donnelly. “I’ve said it all year, he’s the
reason we’re a lot better than people thought we were going to be.”by Landry,” said McKillop. “He, Stephen Marshall, and
Chadd Holmes are really starting to step forward in the paint.” Marshall scored eight points and grabbed seven rebounds on
Saturday, and Chadd Holmes notched his first career double-double Thursday against Siena. Guard Jason Stewart led the Paladins with 23
points. The Davidson win, along with an 81-74 VMI loss to The Citadel on Saturday, puts the Wildcats in a
second-place tie with the Keydets in the North Division.

Scorebox on page 14

Hall of Fame day for hoops
Men drop Furman, women take squeaker from App. St.
Brown banks game into OT, women steal crucial thriller
By Aaron DUNHAM
Staff Writer

DAVIDSON, Feb. 8 - The women’s basketball team knew this season could be special after a 60-58 upset victory Jan.
13 at App. St. Although the team just suffered through a five-game losing streak, hopes have been rekindled after another
win over the Mountaineers. This time, the Wildcats won on their home floor, an 88-84 overtime triumph before the largest
Belk women’s crowd this year.

“We're back!” exclaimed coach John Filar after the game. Anna Judy Landry Kosmalski spins cues the Furman defense and drops
in a reverse lay-up for two of his 18. He added 15 boards on the day. “You know how much
we needed this game.”

Davidson (12-8, 4-5 SC) outplayed the co-conference-leading Mountaineers (13-8, 6-3) for virtually the entire game, but still found themselves down,
79-76, with 20 seconds remaining after a Meredith Thompson three. After taking a seven-point halftime advantage, the Wildcats led for
most of the second half before App. St. put together a late 9-0 run, capped by Thompson’s three.

“You just have to weather those runs and then make the last one,” explained Filar. And that’s exactly what Kerry
Brown did, banking in a tying three from the right side with nine seconds left. The Mountaineers worked for a
final shot, but Melissa Davis’s lay-in came after the buzzer.

In the extra period, Brown again responded in the clutch with a baseline jumper that gave Davidson an 85-84 lead.
Two free throws by Jamie Brown and another by Jennie Vanlerberghe sealed the win. The Mountaineers were just 1-of-4 from
the line in overtime.

There were several stellar performances turned in by the Wildcats. Jamie Brown scored a career-high 22 points. Carolyn Kirsch poured
in 23 points to go along with 10 rebounds. And Jen O’Brien made the most of her team-high 41 minutes,
tallying eight points, seven assists, five boards, and four steals. Melissa Davis paced App. St. with 23 points, one shy
of her career high. Center Tiana Tate, who has replaced preseason conference Player-of-the-Year Andreia Hinton in the starting lineup, pitched
in 20 points.

“It would have been so easy for them to put a little doubt in their mind,” added Filar. “This game
shows just what kind of character these girls have.”

Scorebox on page 15

Sawyer sets records at Va. Tech
By Dalton McLean
Staff Writer

Jamilah Sawyer set two school records on Saturday to pace the women’s track team at the Virginia Tech meet in
Blacksburg, Va. She finished the 60-meter hurdles in an unprecedented 9.36 seconds (9th) and sprinted to a record time of
27.95 in the 200. As the anchor of the 4x400 relay team with Lara Burkholder, Schaap Freeman, and Beth Goldstein,
she just missed a third record. The distance medley relay team of Suzy Burr, Lara Burkholder, Janet Aardema, and Kate
Fieldmeier (9th) were just one second off a Davidson record. Lisa Green ran a personal best in the 5000 (20:37.20,
4th), and Jenny Klotz followed right behind Green with her own personal best (21:14.30, 5th).

Running the 400 were Beth Goldstein (64.36 seconds) and Schaap Freeman (65.06).

See Track on page 14

By Bob LONERGAN
Wrestlers looking for, earning respect
Staff Writer

The team represented itself well, though, in the 35-5 loss. Miles Cox wrestled an outstanding match at 118, gaining a
technical fall by defeating his opponent in a 17-2 decision. Andy Sterling and Ian Kaplan also wrestled well, losing two
tough matches by one point. With these results and the returning regulars, coach Tom Oddo is optimistic for the big
upcoming week for the team.

“We are going to be able to put our strongest lineup out there this week,” he said.
