2. THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1997

Ad hoc committee created

An ad hoc committee was created at Tuesday’s meeting to investigate the possibility of more minors. Sophomore Senator Foster Haseldon initiated the resolution to the SGA.

Elections today and tomorrow

Thirty-five freshmen are running for six spots. Seven independents are running for six spots. Twenty-seven sophomores are running for three honor council spots. Fifteen juniors are running for three honor council spots. Thirteen seniors are running for three honor council spots.

Vamanos Van starts

The Vamanos Van drives anywhere off campus, including to off-campus parties. Twelve people used the van on Sept. 4 and Sept. 5 — Thursday and Friday — combined, and about 80 people used the van Saturday, Sept. 6.

Buy tickets to eat pasta

Monday and Tuesday tickets will be sold for the Project Life First Night Down spaghetti dinner. Purchase tickets at the ticket office in the Union.

Dervan and Ch’ng, not Frazier

Last week’s Davidsonian incorrectly reported that Whitney Frazier was the Consumer Protection Committee contact. The contacts are Lucian Dervan and Toh Ch’ng.

COMPILED BY ANN CULP

Elections are set for today, with any necessary run-offs happening.

Student being tried for removing post office flag

By SARAH OGDEN
Staff Writer

“I thought that my actions reflected my values, my love for this country,” insists Davidson senior Ryan Gist. Gist, along with seniors Brian Cowan and Thomas Dugan, were detained by police in relation to the September 4 theft of the flag that flies at the front entrance of the Davidson post office. Gist says that he, Cowan, and Dugan went to the post office around 10:30 that night to check their mailboxes, only to find the American flag flying without proper illumination, which is illegal under Title 36 of the U.S. Code. Gist lowered and folded the flag, intending to return it to post office officials the next morning. Later that night, however, the boys, who were suspected of having stolen the flag, were located by campus police and brought in for questioning. According to the campus police report, “Further investigations revealed that Gist had taken the flag down as he felt it was his patriotic duty.” Once the situation had been explained, the police contacted post office authorities, and it was agreed that, as long as the flag was returned, no one would press charges.

“I thought it was over,” said Gist. But it was just beginning. About a week after the incident, Gist received a call from Ernest Jeffries, Assistant Dean of Students and Director of Minority Student Affairs. Dean Jeffries, who has refused to comment on the situation, told Ryan that he was being charged with violating Section III of the Code of Responsibility, which deals with social responsibility and states, “Social conduct is to be based upon concern for others and must conform to high standards of courtesy and propriety.” Section XII of the Code allows this to be enforced even in acts that occur off-campus, as in Gist’s case. Gist comments, “One problem I have with Dean Jeffries is that, the minute I got in there [Jeffries’ office], he was basically telling me that I had to go in front of the J Board [Judicial Committee] and confess that this was wrong. I said that I wouldn’t submit to the J Board, and I wanted an Honor Council hearing. Now I’m going to go in front of the Honor Council and have a public hearing — the first [public hearing] in a long time.completely undermined my confidence in the efficacy of the Judicial Board here,” Gist continues. “People think that when you get charged with something, you are automatically screwed. You’re convicted. That’s the way I felt when I went in there. And I think a big part of it is when they first counsel you, they make you feel like you have no way out, and that whether you’re guilty or not you’re going to get in trouble. And that’s why I almost went to the J Board and [admitted guilt]. I knew it wouldn’t be that bad of a sentence. But I just realized that it’s so against my values, it’s not worth it for me,” he added.

Gist said the worst punishment he expects is social probation or community service. “I don’t expect a conviction, though,” he adds quickly.

Ryan, who is currently active in ROTC and intends to go into the military after graduation, says he acted because “it’s disrespectful to the flag. I’m going to put my life on the line for my country. My grandfather fought in World War II; he was a prisoner of World War II. My dad was in the army.”

In light of recent events, the Davidson post office allegedly plans to install proper illumination for the flag. The date and location for the hearing had not been determined when this issue went to print. Seniors Josie Hoover and Virginia Fisher are the student solicitors and seniors Wesley Hart and Damon Colbert are the defense advisors. Students may attend the trial.

Expanding Exit 25 has much to offer
Businesses flock to the growing area around Huntersville
By Mary LEE
Staff Writer

Where can you buy a Matchbox 20 CD, pick up information about tooth-whitening, get a waitressing job on the spot, use the internet at a week-old public library, drink a mocha latte, and get a full body spa treatment—all within a one-mile radius? Exit 25, of course. The location is fast becoming an entrepreneur’s mecca as new businesses spring up each month to meet consumer demands from population growth in north Charlotte. The signs—“Now Hiring,” “Training in Progress,” and “Opening Soon,” say it all.

Longhorn Steakhouse, next to Chili’s and Fudrucker’s, will open Tuesday at 4 p.m. Rick Hughes, the owner of Longhorn, picked the site 18 months ago. He equates the expansion in Huntersville to the growth at UNC Charlotte. “We now have a little city,” he said.

Mary Ellen Johnson, owner of the Java House at Northcross Shopping Center, found Huntersville’s population growth rate to be consistently over 60 percent for the past few years. Talbot’s signature red door came to the area Aug. 21, when the women’s clothing store held a four-day opening celebration. The new North County Regional Library welcomed 107 first-time library card holders during last Monday’s ribbon-cutting ceremony. Assistant manager Teresa Bishop said Davidson students can get a library card by bringing their student IDs and proof of address. They can then check out videos and CDs from the library’s collection, and use other resources.

Hughes said that further development will bring two hotels and three restaurants to the exit by 1998: Country Suite, Marriott Courtyard, Outback Steakhouse, Carrabba’s (an Italian eatery), and the Hops and Grill microbrewery.

Local residents are beginning to ask, “Who needs Charlotte when we’ve got Exit 25?”