_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Anonymous student reactions and Davidsonian poll results

The following is a sampling of excerpts from what students wrote on the Davidsonian poll, conducted in the Union and around campus Wednesday and Thursday.

Yes 189 (49.4%)  
No 193 (50.6%)  
DID YOU GO TO THE TRIAL?

Yes 361 (96.8%)  
No 12 (3.2%)  
Do you AGREE WITH THE HONOR COUNCIL'S VERDICT?

Yes 56 (14.8%)  
No 323 (85.2%)  
Do You AGREE WITH THE DEAN OF STUDENTS OFFICE'S DECISION TO CHARGE Gist WITH A CODE OF RESPONSIBILITY VIOLATION?

“Has my faith in the Honor Code lessened? You assume it was strong to begin with.”

Yes 70 (19.7%)  
No 285 (80.3%)  
Do YOU THINK THE PRINCIPLES OF THE HONOR CODE SHOULD SUPERCEDE THOSE OF TOWN, STATE OR FEDERAL LAW?

“Our deans need to figure out whose team they're on. I had always believed them to be on ours. I found out from this trial that the deans are not on our team.”

“The trial was a sham. It was an absolute joke, an embarrassment to the school. I thought it was poorly handled. It just didn’t seem like the people on the Council knew the rules. I think Dean Jeffries should be put on trial.”

“The Honor Council's verdict upheld principles of the Honor Code, moderation, and common sense.”

One of the most absolutely frustrating things about the Honor Code is its blinding vision of black and white. Real honor is not black and white.”

Yes 112 (59.3%)  
No 77 (40.7%)  
Those who attended the trial: BASED ON WHAT YOU SAW AT THE TRIAL, READ IN The Davidsonian, OR HEARD AROUND CAMPUS, HAS YOUR FAITH IN THE HONOR CODE AND/OR CODE OF RESPONSIBILITY LESSENED?

Yes 72 (37.3%)  
No 121 (62.7%)  
Those who did not attend the trial: BASED ON WHAT YOU SAW AT THE TRIAL, READ IN The Davidsonian, OR HEARD AROUND CAMPUS, HAS YOUR FAITH IN THE HONOR CODE AND/OR CODE OF RESPONSIBILITY LESSENED?

“Ryan shouldn't be prosecuted for upholding his duty to our country. Davidson bureaucracy superceded everything good.”

Trial from page 1

Student Solicitor Virginia Fisher began the trial by reading the statement of charge: “Violating Section III of the Code of Responsibility, Social Responsibility.” When asked if he accepted or denied the charge, Gist said bluntly, “Deny.”

Fisher then made the prosecution’s opening statement, which included reading part of the preamble to the Code of Responsibility, as well as Section III. “Mr. Gist effectively took the law into his own hands,” Fisher said, “and removed federal property from the post office.”

In the defense’s opening statement, Colbert said that, because of his “tremendous sense of patriotic duty, Ryan Gist, as a cadet in the United States Armed Forces, felt compelled to remove” the flag, which was flying in violation of Section 1748 of the U.S. Code. “Mr. Gist’s actions were not detrimental to any persons or institution, nor were they executed with malicious intent,” Colbert said, “If he had acted improperly, he would be subject to federal prosecution; he is not. The defense fervently believes, inviting the circumstances surrounding this situation, that Mr. Gist’s actions were conducted in good faith.”

Gist was then called to the stand and sworn in. The defense questioned him first — asking Gist to relate the events of the night he removed the flag from the post office — then read the police report, which found that “Mr. Gist took the flag down and folded it with intentions of returning (it) to post office authorities the following morning.”

The Student Solicitors questioned Gist next. Hoover asked Gist how his actions hadn’t caused trouble, since the police had become involved, saying, “I’m just trying to understand how what you did wouldn’t affect anybody.” Gist countered Hoover’s argument, saying, “I hope it affected a lot of people.”

Fisher revealed that Gist had known that bringing the flag onto College property made it a College matter. To which Gist responded, “Are you implying that I disrespected the flag?” “Sure,” Fisher said.

When the questioning opened up to the Council, Asa Hercules, the Council's Secretary, asked Gist if there were other ways he could have handled the situation, and if Ryan was intoxicated at the time of the incident. While Gist admitted that there were other things he could have done, he said that he was not intoxicated at the time.

Upon requestioning Gist, Fisher repeated a point brought up earlier by Honor Council member Matt Ellis, who asked what Gist felt was more important — his ROTC oath or the Honor Code. “My oath,” Ryan said. “I believe supporting and defending the Constitution is more important than my college career is — not to belittle your proceedings at all.”

“They're making a judgement on my values, basically,” Gist said later. “And who’s to say their values are better than mine? I believe my country is more important than the school, but I didn’t want to belittle their points.”

Two conflicting definitions of larceny were presented during the time for rebuttal evidence. The Student Solicitors read the Webster’s Dictionary definition. The defense advisors countered with the official North Carolina definition, saying, “This supercedes that.” The main difference in definitions is that the official state definition mentions intent, while Webster’s does not. When the Student Solicitors objected on the grounds that the Council wasn’t to consider the incident in any context other than the Code of Responsibility, Colbert objected — “We are in North Carolina” — to the raucous applause of the audience.

“What we’re looking at right now is the Code of Responsibility,” saidHildebrand, after regaining order, said, “We’re not looking at state laws, Davidson laws.” After the rebuttal period, a 10-minute recess was called so that the Student Solicitors and Defense Advisors could prepare their closing statements. Hildebrand allowed the break to serve as a question-and-answer period for the audience and also to explain what was to come in the hearing. 

One audience member asked if the decision had to be unanimous to convict, or if only a simple majority was required. Hildebrand said that the Council needed a majority to convict, but the decision had to be unanimous for suspension. 

“Why,” another asked, “is Dean Jeffries not present?” 

“Actually, in his defense, the administrators tend to stay out of student business because the Honor Council is student-run,” Hildebrand responded. “He did leave a number. If we have questions, we can contact him.” 

“It’s a board of peers,” said Ernest Jeffries, Assistant Dean of Students and Director of Minority Student Affairs. “And generally people in the Dean of Students Office really don’t get involved unless specifically called. And there were some questions that I did get called on.” 

After the hearing resumed, the Student Solicitors and Defense Advisors made their closing arguments. 

“Yes, we might commend Mr. Gist for his patriotic intentions to protect the American flag,” Hoover said. “However, Mr. Gist’s patriotic intentions are not on trial here tonight. Tonight, you, members of the Davidson College Honor Council, are here to decide whether Ryan Gist’s actions, consisting of removing federal property from the town of Davidson’s post office, is a violation of the Code of Responsibility, according to Davidson College. Ryan Gist did choose to act freely and with liberty. He removed the American flag from Davidson’s post office. Now he must be ready to accept full responsibility for his actions.” 

Defense Advisor Wesley Hart said: “Mr. Gist believes wholeheartedly that his actions were necessary and right. Seemingly, the federal government agrees, as officials saw no purpose in pursuing any form of reprimand. Gist’s actions harmed neither any persons nor institutions. Is Mr. Gist aware of Section III of the Code of Responsibility? Yes, he is — and he acted properly. There is evidence of no violation. Therefore, there should be no sanctions.” 

At approximately 10:30, the Honor Council then went into executive session to make their decision. Most of the crowd dissipated; a few stayed to await the verdict. 

“I think Damon and Wes stole the show,” Gist said of his defense advisors while awaiting the verdict. “They did an incredible job.” 

“If I win,” he continued, “then, at its core, the Honor Council works. The honor system works. The Code of Responsibility works. Even if I win though, there are still some serious problems with the way my case was handled — being taken into a room and told that I was guilty over and over again, that kind of stuff. 

“The Dean of Students Office needs to be, maybe not your friend, but an impartial observer, and in this case, they weren’t. If I am vindicated, then it will restore my faith in the system, but there are still some really serious problems. I believe in the Honor Code, but I’m just real fuzzy on how they can judge on such subjective matters. I don’t think it should have gone this far. The Code of Responsibility is so ambiguous. Students should go through and read it; read my case, read Section III, and try to figure out what I’m really being prosecuted on. Because I’m still not 100 percent sure.” 

“I think there was a misunderstanding between Gist and the administration as to his options,” Colbert said. “I believe [the case] could’ve been prevented from coming. This was just a special circumstance. 

“Some people would say that he shouldn’t have been charged at all,” Jeffries said. “It’s just a matter of personal opinion. He was charged because it was a clear violation of the Code of Responsibility. The thing I am very careful to do every time is just take it as it is. Because I think, in doing that, that I’m consistent with everyone that comes through. Being consistent is something that’s very important to me. Look at the action, the behavior, because if you look at the Code of Responsibility, the Code of Responsibility deals with behavior. Totally.” 

Almost two hours later, the Council returned to announce its verdict. 

“The Council will now read the verdict,” Hildebrand said. “Because there was no clear and convincing evidence, the Honor Council found Ryan Gist not guilty of violating Section III of the Code of Responsibility.” 

The small group that had stayed for the end broke into applause, and Gist was almost immediately surrounded by friends and well-wishers. 

“It (the decision) shows that our judicial system does what we want it to do,” Jeffries said. “You had a situation where a student didn’t feel that they were justly charged, and the beauty of the honor system here at Davidson is that there are avenues in it for a student to address those concerns, and there’s a forum for those things to be heard.” 

Said Hoover: “The Honor Council did their job, and what they say is what’s right.” 

“For the four of us, it’s not a win-or-lose thing,” Fisher said. “There is some amount of that, because we’re usually — just by the nature of the system — on the winning side. But it isn’t a ‘win’ because it’s not about us.” 

“I was really impressed with the preparation of the defense,” Kamath said. “Their whole defense was flawless. They were really well prepared, and so was Ryan. He was really well-rehearsed.” 

Kamath added that the decision was based on two things: “There was no clear and convincing evidence that he violated Section III of the Code of Responsibility, specifically, and we were only able to take into account what we saw at the trial.” 

“Basically, we just got his side of the story,” said Colbert of preparing Gist’s defense. “The Defense Advisors also talked to the postmaster and looked over the U.S. Code that prohibits flying the American flag at night without proper illumination. According to Hart, the defense also spoke with the Dean of Students and ROTC. 

“We had a tough time trying to figure out what was really at stake,” Hoover said of building their case against Gist. “But we knew basically, it just boiled down to Ryan took something that wasn’t his, and the fact that it was federal property makes it even worse.” 

Hoover said that the Student Solicitors prepared themselves by conducting interviews and holding discussions, both with each other and with Shandley. 

“We worked very closely with Damon and Wesley,” Fisher said. “We support each other.” 

“At its core, the Honor Code works,” said Gist, whose faith in the Code has been more or less restored since the decision. The proceedings “were handled in a good manner. Charlotte took control.” 

Added Gist: “I was really lucky to have such a good defense.”