4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Saintsing’s resolution met by stiff opposition

Call Boxes from page 1

In addition, Thrower said that there have been no formal complaints made in regard to the escort service this year.
“In past years there have been rumors of poor service, and we pulled tapes from the Charlotte-Mecklenburg supervisor of communication,”
he said. “There was no evidence that there was a problem.”

Regardless, “I introduced these two resolutions tonight to start a trend,” Saintsing said.

Brown said she felt Saintsing could have gone about accomplishing his goal in a better way: “I thought it would
be best to bring a resolution to the body to redirect or restructure the way SGA is run. SGA could
have debated the merit of working through resolutions as a rule.”

SGA President Buster Burke broke the tie to pass the resolution on campus safety. “I’m glad Tim’s got the initiative,
but I think he should have looked into it more,” Burke said. “Resolutions drive committees, and I don’t want to
have committees, and Saintsing: “Not everyone is willing to fix the SGA. My enthusiasm and initiative will be met with
hostility and defense. But I am willing and ready to change the system so that it best addresses students’ needs.”

The SGA’s committees and councils numbered 18 as of SGA Day and the ad-hoc committee on minors has been added
since. “I think that any time a constituent has concerns, the SGA is a great place to do it,” SGA
vice president Ann Harriot Fisher said. “SGA has an encompassing committee system that embraces many areas on campus. Heather and
Lucian are the council chairpersons, and this could have been resolved through them, but I think the way Tim handled
it was entirely appropriate. His constituent had a problem, and this is the way he sought to solve it best.
The way a senator wishes to vent his constituents’ concerns is up to him.”

“I agree that it’s important to bring resolutions. Maybe this will make the SGA a better organization, but I don’t
want resolutions to be accusatory or to damage the rapport of SGA committees.”

“There were many routes that I could have chosen to present my resolutions,” Saintsing said. “The one I chose is
the one that best suited the current situation. The committee structure has a lot of potential, but I cannot work
within a flawed system to correct that very system.”

“Not everyone will be willing to fix the SGA. My enthusiasm and initiative will be met with hostility and defense,”
he said. “But I am willing and ready to change the system so that it best addresses students’ needs and
so that it best utilizes the framework that is already in place.”

NEWS | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1997

Bill Giduz

A crowd of 3,178 attended the football game and Homecoming activities Saturday at Richardson Field.

BSC lobbies for equality on campus

25 Years Ago This Week

By Laura CRAVER Staff Writer

filled its pages with commentaries on and accounts of the heated, ominous presidential election between Democratic hopeful George McGovern and
the hard-nosed Republican champion Richard Nixon. Students praised Nixon in editorials, while others aligned support for McGovern. The Davidsonian reported
that the College Democrats were waging their own personal campaign for the challenger,Just as the College Republicans mustered support for
the incumbent, this election left a substantial mark on American political history. The election of Nixon in 1972 is 25
years old in textbooks. In October 1972, however, the Davidsonian chose a different story for the front page, one that
continues to affect the student population at Davidson. The week of Oct. 20, the Black Student Coalition made 10 proposals
to the Faculty Executive Committee. The BSC, led by president Ron Gibson, punctuated their petition with threats of refusing to
help recruit black students in the future and their own likely withdrawal from the College if positive action was not
taken to alleviate the problems. Among the 10 proposals were as follows: an increase in black student enrollment to “at
least 150 within two years,” an African Studies Program, “several black faculty members within two years,” a better social life
for black students, and the appointment of two black administrators within the year. Also, the BSC wanted 10 percent of
the Coed students to be black. At the time of the complaints in 1972, there were none. Gibson claimed little
was done over the summer to implement these proposals, some of which had been proposed in earlier years. As a
result, the BSC decided on deadlines to draw attention to their concerns. “If Davidson cannot make a real commitment to
black students, then there is no need for us to be here,” Gibson said. “Some of these proposals include things
that were promised to us my freshman year, but they have not been acted on. We are tired of empty
promises. We want action.” Students and faculty members sympathized with the arguments. But John M. Bevan, the vice-president for academic
affairs, disputed Gibson’s assertion that nothing had been done to improve the “situation.” He cited the hiring of a black
admissions officer and another black secretary, and a comprehensive review of the library’s holdings about the “black experience.” Furthermore, Gibson
and others petitioned for an exchange program with traditionally black colleges. At the time, Howard University and Morehouse College had
exchange programs with predominately white Northern colleges. Today minority students benefit from such Davidson-sponsored programs as A.C.E.S., COSEN, and BSC.
Also, Davidson succeeded in establishing exchange programs with Morehouse College and Howard University.

SENIORS REMEMBER TO VOTE ON OUR CLASS GIFT IDEAS WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22 & THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23 9:30 - 1:30 PM
VOTING STATIONS AT THE UNION & MARTIN COURT KIOSK COME TELL US WHAT YOU THINK

The Davidson College PRE-LAW SOCIETY Announces an Organizational Meeting The meeting is open to anyone interested in the study of
law and policy. Newcomers are especially encouraged to attend. Call Bill Cameron or Tom Kapioltas for questions at x6825 WEDNESDAY,
OCTOBER 22, 5:00 PM, CHAMBERS 211 IF YOU ARE UNABLE TO ATTEND THE PRESENTATION, BUT WOULD LIKE TO LEARN

Bowles Hollowell Conner & Co. INVESTMENT BANKERS Bowles Hollowell Conner & Co. is the premier provider of merger and acquisition
and private finance expertise to the middle market. Our clients include private equity groups and domestic and international corporations. We
offer a two-year analyst program open to motivated undergraduates who have a demonstrated record of accomplishment. Join us for a
company presentation and reception. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 7:00 PM CARNEGIE GUEST HOUSE, THE DRAWING ROOMS RESUME DROP DATE FRIDAY, OCTOBER
24, 1997 For On Campus INTERVIEWS THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1997 OFFICE OF CAREER SERVICES, OR CONTACT CRAIG WISE, SARAH BREWER,
OR ELIZABETH DUBOSE AT (704) 348-1000. MORE ABOUT Bowles Hollowell Conner & Co. PLEASE SEE OUR COMPANY BROCHURES AT THE
Bowles Hollowell Conner & Co. CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA
