THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Women’s soccer lets pair slip away
By Dante L. Motz
Senior Staff Writer

Coach Kevin Hundley knew the second goal would be the difference Saturday against Georgia Southern. Katie Byrnes' score gave the Wildcats a 1-0 advantage at the half, and another Davidson goal may have provided the Wildcats the necessary knockout punch.

“During halftime, our team stressed the importance of that second goal,” Hundley said. “We knew that if we went up two goals, it would have been very hard for them to come back. But if Georgia Southern scores that second goal, the momentum shifts their way.”

And that is exactly what happened. After the Eagles (3-0-1, 1-0 SC) stymied several Wildcat scoring opportunities in the opening minutes of the second half, they were able to create their own offense. GSU star Tara Chasson, last year’s Southern Conference Freshman of the Year and the league’s 1996 scoring leader, tied the game and then set up the game-winner with a cross to Jenny Howell. The contest against Davidson (0-3-1, 0-1) was Chasson’s 1997 debut because of an injury in the pre-season.

“She really adds so much to that team,” Hundley said. “She gives them so many things, including added speed.”

Georgia Southern, losers to Davidson in last year’s conference tournament final, was picked in pre-season polls to finish third in the conference, behind UNC Greensboro and Davidson.

“They can do a lot of things and if they put them all together, they can play with anybody in the conference,” Hundley added. “Whenever you have the kind of speed they do, you will have a chance to win.”

The victory will probably give the Eagles a regional ranking.

Davidson 0, Campbell 0

Davidson’s inability to take advantage of offensive opportunities was also evident Tuesday against Campbell, pre-season favorites to win the Trans America Conference. The teams played to a 0-0 draw, and despite the even shot tally, the Wildcats had several more scoring chances than the Camels.

“I was really proud of our defense against Campbell,” Hundley said. “Not only the individual effort, but the way the whole unit worked together.

“But again, offensively we couldn’t convert all of our chances. I feel that was the big factor in each game this week. We really let two slip away.”

Injuries continue to be a factor for the Wildcats. Kate McKnight, who scored the lone goal in the conference final a year ago against Georgia Southern, missed Saturday’s game with the flu. Kelly Rennick, an all-conference player last year who is nursing a high ankle sprain, has been given permission to run. And Leila Wormuth, who injured her knee in the last practice before the season opener, is out indefinitely.

Liz Reid
Sophomore Katie Byrnes, who scored the Wildcats’ goal Saturday against Georgia Southern, maneuvers around an Eagle defender.

Men’s soccer grabs first win
By Jay Cantrell
Sports Editor

GREENSBORO — The men’s soccer team entered the win column for the first time Sunday, knocking off Miami of Ohio 2-1 in overtime despite the absence of striker Phil Julien.

Julien’s replacement, Andrew Holbrook, scored Davidson’s first goal. The Wildcats dominated the rest of the contest, but couldn’t put Miami away in regulation.

“We missed a lot of chances to go up 2-0,” coach Charlie Slagle said. “We let them hang around and they tied it up with three minutes to go. Fortunately, we were able to get a win out of it.”

The win was sealed in sudden-death overtime as David Buehler made a great play to send the ball to Hart Roper for the game-winner.

W & M 2, Wildcats 0

Playing without the services of Julien and defender Lawrence Cann, Davidson fell to William & Mary 2-0 Friday.

“They’re an excellent team,” Slagle said of the Tribe, who made it to the Elite Eight of last year’s NCAA tournament. They were also an aggressive team, recording 14 fouls to Davidson’s three.

“And that’s with a referee who doesn’t call many fouls,” Slagle said.

Citadel 3, Wildcats 2

This one hurt. And not just because the Wildcats lost. Julien went down with a knee injury late in the game, and the date of his return is unknown. Cann also received two yellow cards, forcing him out of the William & Mary contest. Holbrook notched the first tally for Davidson, but the host Bulldogs retaliated with two straight goals. Andy Lanoh tied it up with a header off a Roper corner kick, but The Citadel took the lead for good when goalkeeper Brad Stroble misplayed a shot with 30 minutes to go in the game.was his first mistake of the season,” Slagle said of the ball that bounced off Stroble’s chest and ended up at the feet of a lingering Bulldog who sent the ball home for the game-winner. Julien’s injury came on a scoring opportunity just a few minutes after The Citadel’s third goal. “It was on a play where he got his legs twisted (with another player's legs),” Slagle said. The knee injury kept him out of the weekend’s action in Greensboro.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15,

Field hockey loses three

The field hockey team endured a difficult stretch this week, losing all three games. The Wildcats lost to Wake Forest 12-0 on Tuesday and dropped two close contests over the weekend — 3-2 to Richmond and 3-1 to Central Michigan.

Davidson traveled to Winston-Salem Tuesday to face a formidable Wake Forest team. The Deacons are ranked in the top eight in the nation and boast some talented foreign players on their roster. Wake broke the game open in the first half, but the Wildcats played much better in the second. One bright spot was backup goalkeeper Nancy Livingston, who stepped into net in the second half and let only three shots get past her.

“Wake really caught us off guard in the first half with their quickness and crisp passing,” first-year coach Jennifer Halliday said. “But we had much better execution in the second half.”

The Wildcats lost two heartbreakers over the weekend against Richmond Friday and Central Michigan Saturday. One highlight for the Wildcats against Richmond was a pretty goal by attacker Erin Smith, who broke free for a one-on-one with the keeper and put the ball in the back of the cage. Laura Rosenbach provided the only Davidson goal against CMU.

“We were very disappointed in how these two games turned out because we were in them to the end, but I was proud of the team,” Halliday added. “We showed a lot of improvement.”

CLAYTON SCHLOSS

Volleyball sets up another win

The volleyball team swept Wofford on the road Saturday to improve their record to 3-5 overall and 1-1 in the conference. The Wildcats were led by senior outside hitter Lois Ann Bumgarner.

“It was a good win for us,” coach Lisa Marston said. “Everyone got a lot of playing time.”

The results were not so good earlier in the week when Davidson traveled to Furman. The Paladins, who were picked to finish second in the league this season, beat the Wildcats 3-1 Wednesday night, continuing their domination from last year when they took all four contests between the two Southern Conference rivals.

Cross country team has home meet

The Wildcat harriers, competing in their only home meet of the season, ran well Saturday morning. The women finished second, trailing only Wake Forest, while the men finished fourth.

JAY CANTRELL

McKillop offered Lebanese post

Men’s basketball coach Bob McKillop turned down an opportunity this week to coach the Lebanese national team. The head of Lebanon’s program offered the veteran coach the position on Wednesday. According to McKillop, Lebanon’s chief basketball administrator saw him giving a clinic this summer in Athens, Greece. The man showed up two weeks later in Barcelona, Spain, again to observe McKillop’s coaching. He also asked about McKillop’s availability to administer a clinic in Beirut next spring.

The deal was for four years, all of which would be spent preparing the Lebanese squad for the European Championships in 2001.

Davidson wins league’s academic honors

Davidson won the Southern Conference Barrett-Bonner Award for the highest percentage of athletes on the league’s honor roll for the fourth straight year and also captured the league’s graduation rate award, the conference announced in May.

“We're as proud as if we had just won a conference championship on the field,” athletics director Jim Murphy said in a press release. “Our athletes strive to achieve on the field and in the classroom. It’s appropriate for their efforts to receive official approval.”

In winning the award, 172 of Davidson’s 384 student-athletes (44.8 percent) had at least a 3.0 GPA. The Wildcats also graduated 100 percent of their scholarship athletes who enrolled in the class of 1989-90 and graduated by August 1995.

Paugh transfers to Wake

Wildcat pitcher Ricky Paugh, who would have been a junior, transferred to Wake Forest this summer.

“He just decided that he wanted to look at some other places,” baseball coach Dick Cooke explained. “I think it was a variety of things. He certainly has some projectability (as a pitcher). Last year was the first year he focused solely on pitching. He wasn’t going to be our No. 1 coming back, but he’s certainly got a lot of physical capability.”

MICHAEL J. KRUSE

Davidson Sports Information contributed to this report.