THE DAVIDSONIAN

Field hockey preps for Deep South

By Jay CANTRELL
Sports Editor

Erin Smith got some help as she continued to rise up the all-time scoring ladder this weekend. But it was not enough for the field hockey team, who lost a frustrating 2-1 decision at Radford Sunday.

Smith was given credit for a goal scored at the 28:24 mark to give the Wildcats a 1-0 lead. The shot, which could have been a pass, was deflected into the goal by a Highlander. “I’d love to take credit for the goal,” said Smith, “but I have to share it with the defender.” It was the first time Radford had given up a goal at home all season.

But the Highlanders came back in the second stanza with two goals within five minutes of each other. Amanda Kitson converted a pass from Renee LaMontagne at the 49:25 mark. LaMontagne scored the game-winner on her own in the 55th minute to give Radford the 2-1 victory.

Smith’s goal gives her two more points in her career. She is now tied for fourth on Davidson’s all-time field hockey scoring list with 64 points on 28 goals and 8 assists. She shares the fourth spot with Lisa Ballantyne.

Davidson also had a game Friday against William and Mary. The contest was held at Wake Forest. The Wildcats lost 4-1 to the Tribe, but the score was not indicative of the majority of the game. “We played very well,” said Smith. “We hung with them for a long time.”

The Tribe capitalized on a Davidson penalty late in the second half to take a 1-0 lead. After the break, Kate Schoening tied the contest at one. Schoening and Jenny Gold switched positions for the second half, and Schoening took full advantage of the opportunity to play center forward. But the Tribe’s offense proved to be too powerful as they exploded for three late goals to take the 4-1 decision.

Friday’s result showed how much Davidson has improved over the course of the season. William and Mary was coming off a 1-0 loss to Wake Forest, and the Demon Deacons defeated the Wildcats 11-0 earlier in the year.

Now the squad turns its attention to the Deep South conference tournament, which will be held at Davidson this weekend. The Wildcats play their first game Saturday at 1:00 against Appalachian St. The Mountaineers have won both contests between the teams this season, each by a score of 3-1. Each team in the tournament will play two games, regardless of Saturday’s results. “Saturday is essentially the championship,” said Smith. “We need to beat Appalachian first, then focus on the game Sunday.”

SPOR

Sean Lutmer

Freshman phenom Mara Mordini prepares for a pass in recent action at Belk Arena. Fellow rookie Brooke Bentley looks on. The Wildcats fell to conference foe UNC Greensboro Wednesday on the road, 18-16, 3-15, 15-9, 15-3.

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1997

By Michael J. KRUSE
Editor in Chief

It is blatantly clear the men’s basketball team has tremendous potential heading into this season — one that, according to almost all national pundits, should take them to the NCAA tournament come March. But, as coach Bob McKillop is quick to point out, any amount of potential is useless until it is turned into production.

Men’s Basketball Notebook

If the Wildcats’ first week of practice is any indication of things to come, such a conversion is inevitable. “It has been one of the most enjoyable and productive weeks of practice I can recall in my 25 to 26 years of coaching,” McKillop said Friday when asked about his squad’s first five practices.

Billy Armstrong, a senior guard who will serve as co-captain for this year’s Wild- a back injury. He was evaluated yesterday.

When asked to elaborate, he did so with only three words: “Competitive, passionate, and responsive. They are a joy to coach.”

“But there is plenty of work to be done,” he added. “And that’s an emphasis on plenty.” And the squad has until Nov. 20 — its opener versus Duke at Cameron Indoor Stadium — to do it.

International influence

McKillop is known for his international connections, the products of which can be seen every day on the court — point guard Ali Ton from Turkey, guard Davor Halbauer from Croatia, and rookie swingman Emeka Erege, a German-Nigerian who came to Davidson via Long Island Lutheran in New York.

Former international Wildcats include Cameroonian Narcisse Ewodo, an All-Southern Conference forward last season; Janko Narat, a 1994 graduate and standout on the 1994 NIT team; and Detlef Musch, a Fulda, Germany, native who was McKillop’s first recruit at Davidson.

And right now at the Wildcats’ practices, there is additional tangible evidence of McKillop’s European connections. Four Greek coaches are on a month-long trip to Davidson to observe the squad’s practices. The ninth-year coach did a clinic in Greece in late June for the Greek Coaches Association. Last month, the president of the Association called McKillop and asked if four of his coaches could come to Davidson to watch practice. They will be here until mid-November.Back acting up

Billy Armstrong, a co-captain expected to log minutes at both the point and shooting guard positions this season, is nursing a muscle strain in his back. Armstrong first suffered the injury on the squad’s trip to Italy in August, “twist(ing) his body in a very unorthodox way,” according to McKillop. Apparently, the ailment has not properly or completely healed. And the 6-foot-2 senior, who recently wrenched it again, has not practiced yet but will likely return this week. Armstrong was evaluated by team trainer Scott Applegate yesterday.

File photo: By A | (ewan s * EMA, AIC AAT

Pacing golfers

Golf from page 20

Consistency is the thing. Both are very consistent players, staying away from the big numbers.” At Huntersville, the Wildcats will field two separate teams — a Davidson Red and a Davidson Black — to give more golfers an opportunity to play competitively, according to Mark. There will be a practice round Sunday. The team hopes the strong foundation built last spring and this fall’s promising performance will pay off in the league championships in April at the Carolina Country Club in Spartanburg, S.C. “I hope we can finish in the upper half of the conference,” Mark said. “It’s very competitive in golf.” East Tennessee St. is nationally ranked and Furman made the NCAA tournament last spring. Even so, McDaniel said, “Realistically, I think we can finish second or third if we play to our potential.” “Everyone is playing close to as well as they can,” Alexander said. “Our mentality has changed from finishing in the middle of the pack to being in contention.”

By Michael J. Kruse
Editor in Chief

Jen O’Brien, a Middletown, Conn., native and the Connecticut state player of the year during a championship senior season at Mercy, made practically immediate contributions last year as a rookie for the women’s basketball team.

The ball belongs to O’Brien

Sophomore takes on leadership role

Women’s Basketball Notebook

Playing at both the point and two-guard positions, the 5-foot-5 offensive threat averaged 8.2 points a game and led the Wildcats with 99 assists. She also led the squad in rebounding in two contests. She exploded for 18 points twice against Southern Conference finalist Georgia Southern, including an 18-point, eight-board effort in the season-ending league quarterfinal loss in Statesboro. With the graduation of Monica Winter, last year’s starter at the point, O’Brien has stepped into a greater leadership position. “O’Brien did a great job last year of fitting into several different roles,” coach John Filar said Friday after practice. “This year, she’s just grabbed hold of the point guard position, saying, ‘This is my position for the next three years. This is my team.’ She’s done a fantastic job of helping us play up tempo.”

What does Filar want from O’Brien — such a versatile player — in terms of numbers? “She’ll have a feel for the game,” the coach said. “She’ll ask herself, ‘Is this a game where I need to have 12 assists or is this a game where I need to score 20 points?’ She has a great feeling for the game of basketball.”

No repeat performance

A week into practice, the women’s basketball team is dead set on not allowing another 1996-97, which ended tearfully in the conference quarters — before the Wildcats’ ultimate goal of Greensboro, the site of the semis and finals last year. “We couldn’t ask for a better start,” Filar said. “Not just from ability, but their attention level and their focus is so much better (than last year). I’ve never seen them this determined.” According to Filar, the upped intensity is a direct result of disappointments over the last two years, in which the Wildcats won 14 and 15 games — both program-best outputs, but, especially last year, not nearly what the team entered the season hoping for. “We suffered some pain and disappointments last year,” he added. “We set some awfully high goals last year and didn’t quite reach them. They don’t want to go through that again.”

Health, as always, the key

Walking wounded — a cliché, but an unfortunate and accurate description of the women’s basketball team the last two years. The Wildcats’ health — or lack thereof — has arguably played the biggest role in Davidson’s recent campaigns of missed opportunities, unmet expectations, and underachievement. So far this year... “Today was the first time we’ve had anybody with an ice bag,” Filar said after Friday’s session, No. 6 on the year. “This is as healthy as we’ve ever been at this point. That's the key to the season — that we can put the people on the court that we need to put on the court.” Which is something the Wildcats certainly haven’t been able to do in recent years, most notably due to injuries to budding young stars Jessica Montrella, Jamie Brown, and Kerry Brown — who needed the ice bag Friday because of a slight twinge in her ankle. “To do really well, any team wants to get through a season with a little bit of luck in terms of no injuries,” Filar explained, “and we haven't had that the past two years.”