6 THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1997

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Opinions Editors
JESSICA GOODSON
KRISTEN BARTCH

News Editors
WESLEY GOLDSBERRY
NARESH NAGELLA

Arts & Living Editor
DAVID PETERSON
CARRIE MORRIS

Sports Editor
JAY CANTRELL

Layout Editors
CINDY CLARK
AUSTIN DEAN

Advertising Manager
RANDALL SKATTUM

Copy Editors
ANNA ERIKSSON
CHLOE BROOKE

Circulation Managers
SONYA HAGLER
CHLOE BROOKE

Business Manager
McNEIL CARSWELL

Photo Editor
ANNA JUDY

Web Page Managers
HENDI FINK

Editor in Chief
MICHAEL J. KRUSE

Associate Editor
MATTHEW EIRICH

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at: http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Princess Diana was killed in a high-speed car chase late Saturday night in Paris, tragically ending a life often hampered
by extreme exposure to the public eye. Di — traveling in a Mercedes sedan with her new romantic fling, Emad
Mohammed al-Fayed, a driver, and a bodyguard — was the chasee. The chasers were anywhere from five to seven motorcycling
members of the paparazzi, the hounding group of freelance photographers who tracked — or at least attempted to track —
her every move from the moment she married Prince Charles in 1981 to that of her ultimate demise. “Thugs with
cameras,” as a CNN guest put it.

“It is moments like these when I am deeply, deeply ashamed of my profession,” Paul Callan of the London Express
said on NBC. Indeed, the press has borne the brunt of the blame for this unspeakable death. “I always believed
that the press would kill her in the end,” Di’s brother, Earl Spencer, was quoted as saying in the New
York Times. “Not even I could imagine that they would take such a direct hand in her death, as seems
to be the case.”

“Happy now?” a bus driver yelled while driving by a pack of reporters in London. But what is the role
of the press? And to what extent does a public figure have a realistic right to living a life of
privacy?

Chapter 4 of the Associated Press’ Libel Manual, entitled “The Right of Privacy,” states, “When a person becomes involved in
a news event, voluntarily or involuntarily, he forfeits the right to privacy. Similarly, a person somehow involved in a matter
of legitimate public interest, even if not a bona fide spot news event, normally can be written about with safety.”
The AP’s explanation is vague at best, but it does raise questions which cannot be overlooked in this situation: What
makes news news? What makes an event newsworthy? Can somebody’s mere existence truly be considered news on a continual basis,
as was the case with Di?

The press can cover an event — or non-event, in this particular scenario — with impunity if the matter is,
as the AP says, “of legitimate public interest.” And Di’s life was just that — “of legitimate public interest.” The
Sun’s daily circulation of 3.8 million and The Mirror’s 2.3 million fully attest to that.

That said, the blame shifts from the press to the public. We, by buying low-life tabloids, indirectly fund the deeds
and misdeeds of these photographers, who make a living — and, in many instances, a lavish one — by snapping
pictures which often sell for millions of dollars.

It is unfair to throw all the blame at the press — although calling the members of the paparazzi “press”
is an insult to all genuine journalists worldwide. The tabloids, and news outlets in general, run on the same basic
supply-and-demand principle. We demand, they supply. To find a more viable culprit for what transpired in that Paris tunnel Saturday
night, look in the mirror.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per
student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.
Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the
editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost$40 per year.
Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Letter to the Editor

Editor’s Note: The cover letter accompanying what follows states: “The enclosed letter is being distributed to the top 100 biology
graduate programs in the country.”

To the Editor:

I am writing in the hopes that you will make Ph.D. graduates and postdocs who are seeking academic employment aware
of a situation they may want to avoid. Two years ago, I was denied tenure at Davidson College in Davidson,
N.C., under extremely suspicious circumstances. While the probability that one of your colleagues will seek employment at Davidson seems small,
the potential professional devastation that could result if they do has been a sufficient motive for me to write to
you. I also suspect that some aspects of my bad experience are generalizable to other small private colleges.

Despite having unprecedented success obtaining extramural research funding, getting peer-reviewed publications, and despite having the most popular courses in the
Biology Department, of which I was a member, I was denied tenure at Davidson for no apparent legitimate reason. Particularly
disturbing was Davidson’s refusal to give me any rationale for their decision — written, verbal, formal, or informal — in
direct violation of the AAUP guidelines on promotion and tenure procedures.

I appealed my case during which I showed beyond reasonable doubt that libelous statements on the part of a minority
of my colleagues in the Biology Department had influenced the Tenure Committee’s decision. Despite a mountain of evidence that my
tenure process had been tainted, the Appeal Committee failed to uphold my complaint. A further complaint to Davidson’s Professional Affairs
Committee concerning the libelous letters that had been placed in my file (copies of which came into my possession) produced
no action. As a young assistant professor, I didn’t have the financial resources to fight Davidson in court and have
exhausted all other recourse.

Please make your colleagues aware of the fact that due process and academic freedom do not exist at Davidson, nor
probably at many other small colleges of Davidson’s ilk. Davidson is an institution that espouses a strong Christian ethic and
yet treats its well-intentioned employees, like myself, in a dastardly fashion, denying them even a simple verbal explanation if they
are dismissed because they legally can get away with it. Davidson avers in its official documents, and the tripe of
its administrators, a commitment to excellence and diversity while cultivating mediocrity and demanding conformity.

My experience is not unique; similar situations have recently occurred in Davidson’s English and Psychology Departments, supporting my view that
this is an institution-wide problem. At Davidson, job candidates can expect to have the amount of institutional support available to
them grossly exaggerated and the potential difficulties of appeasing senior colleagues (most of whom resent research and fiercely guard the
status quo) understated. Once employed, you will be given no credible feedback on your progress toward tenure (my renewal letters
prior to the tenure decision were very positive) and the real expectations of the institution will remain obscure. The tenure
process is totally shrouded in secrecy to elude accountability. You can expect despicable treatment from tenured colleagues and administrators alike
including verbal abuse and psychological harassment. Nor does the faculty have any real power (or will) to change matters, since
a few influential (rich) trustees control the institution by fiat. Promotion decisions are notoriously arbitrary, or actually counterproductive given that
obsequiousness is more highly regarded than achievement! Moreover, the struthious administration does not have the courage or desire to overturn
promotion decisions that, more often than not, are motivated by petty interpersonal politics.

In short, Davidson is probably the last place one would want to seek professional excellence in teaching or research, though
their posturing and propaganda to the contrary can fool you for a while. I would be most grateful if you
would pass on the gist of my letter to those who could benefit from this information. I would be happy
to discuss the pitfalls of employment at Davidson or small colleges in general with anyone who is interested.

Sincerely,
David M. Coppola
