_ OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 24, 1997

I thought that all of the debate surrounding the sorority issue had subsided two years ago. I guess I was wrong given the fact that I have spent most of my senior spring immersed in recycled arguments/conversations about bringing sororities to Davidson. This time around I do applaud the efforts and motivation to actually introduce a proposal. With that compliment given, I have to say that I found the written proposal presented to the PCC belittling to eating houses and women in general. Here’s why: According to the National Panhellenic definitions, “Sororities promote sound scholarship, leadership ability, community outreach and lifelong friendships” none of which can be accomplished by eating houses, I am guessing, since according to the proposal they “revolve around parties and eating with friends.” Interestingly enough, an eating house’s by-laws stress the same desire to provide Davidson with an avenue for female interaction, companionship and support. There is nothing in the above definition that is not achieved by an eating house. Sororities, they say, “could never serve as the social focus for women on campus.” Is it going to be a spiritual focus? I think the 31 women who have pledged to join this sorority might want to know.

The proposal also asserts that eating houses only let you meet the five women you joined with. Whose fault is that? If you honestly only eat, party, do community service, etc. with the same five women you joined with then you are obviously not taking advantage of being in a house. It seems to me that there is some sort of disillusion as to the fact that sororities, like magic, would give you fifty new best friends. I guess that might be realistic if they are all carbon copies of one another. But there is no way to change the face of this school if individuals don’t take charge and make an effort. By naming a social organization a “sorority” you are not going to endow individuals with superhuman social strength that will automatically create the desire to bond. I would like to think that Davidson women don’t need a sorority for the effect of “the bonds that would be created would cross over eating house lines and allow Davidson women to create close friendships with women from different classes, different freshman halls, and different eating houses, thus easing the tensions.”

As for “no frills rush” and mutual bids, let’s be realistic and not naive. It is an understatement to say that “Obviously sororities must operate rush according to some rules and regulations.” Do you have any idea what those rules are? I attended the Southeastern Panhellenic Conference last year in Atlanta so I feel like I could tell you how destructive those rules are to women who aren’t “the norm” or a “legacy.” There is a section in Part IV of the proposal about advocating “fairness” and “giving everyone a chance to join a sorority who wants to.” Sororities are anything but fair. A friend of mine was crushed because all of her friends got bids to a sorority and she didn’t receive one because—oh, wait, she was a little overweight and we all know how much weight has to say about an individual’s personality. Hall counselors have enough self-esteem issues to deal with—they don’t need more.

Part three of the proposal argues that sororities are “held together by a closer bond than desire to get involved, it’s like a sisterhood of thousands that are looking out for women all over the world.” I think I am confused here because according to this I should only be looking out for women who wear the same letters that I do. All women should be looking out for one another regardless. “By being part of a sorority you have the strength of thousands of women behind you.” I would like to believe that I have the strength of women behind me regardless of whether or not I am a Tri-Delt. The proposal claims a “cohesiveness” among women but it seems to me that for them this cohesiveness only exists within the confines of Greek letters.

Sororities would supposedly offer more leadership opportunities and committees: “This would not only help create leadership skills in women so that they would give Davidson a good name when they go out and change the world.” I think I have gained significant enough leadership skills to give Davidson a good name. In fact, I should hope we all have—isn’t that part of why we are here? It next states that “The opportunities and benefits for self-growth, and personal strength building are unending and invaluable. Is it fair that Davidson women are deprived of obtaining that edge on life?” I like to think that Davidson women are not “deprived” of an “edge on life,” but rather are given a unique experience to make the best of. A Davidson woman has an “edge” because she attends an incredible school, a school with the guts to maintain its own identity and not succumb to the pressures to be like other schools that have sororities.

I can’t help but think that all of this energy could have been channeled into existing groups on campus. The National Panhellenic offers programs about abusive relationships, destructive sexual behavior and personal safety—isn’t that what Georgia Ringle is for? And isn’t she more than willing to address those issues anytime she is invited to do so? If a Davidson student is interested in such programs maybe she should visit a Women’s Issues meeting or ask your RA or Hall Counselor to bring such a program to her hall. We should be utilizing resources that we have instead of trying to introduce more. And to those of you who are thinking about how great being a charter member will look on your resume—I feel certain that there are various other ways that you could contribute to this campus that Career Services would smile upon.

Finally, I would not have come to Davidson if sororities were present. I was impressed by an environment that did not foster such exclusiveness. And I sure would not have been the president of Rusk if I had thought bringing sororities to Davidson was a good idea.

Lisa Senneff

In Defense of Sororities

I hate the word “sorority.” Itbrings to mind brainless, materialistic girls who haven’t a care in the world besides rushing and shopping and wearing their “fancy Greek letters,” as Caroline Hubbell and Hunter McEaddy pointed out. This stereotype bothers me because it does not do justice to the concept of sororities. Granted, I do know a number of sorority girls who encompass all and more of these characteristics, but they don’t discuss the fact that the court, with fraternities, technically does have a process of self-selection. Rush can and does coexist with self-selection. We can have both.

The most important part of sororities also happens to be the aspect that is most essential to our campus. I am jealous of the bonds of friendship I see in fraternities. In a smaller group, we would at least know the names of all of our sorority sisters. Let’s stop pretending that our eating house is a big group of friends without any cliques; we all know that is not the truth. We also invest very little in the self-selection process—we write our choices on a piece of paper and slip it under our hall counselor’s door. We don’t have much to take pride in because we have not worked for anything; our membership has been handed to us. I like Rusk and I have fun there, but I am not happy with the system of eating houses we have at Davidson. We need something much smaller. We need opportunities to form closer friendships. We need something we can work for and take pride in. We need more options.

It is time to start giving ourselves some credit. We are on the outside of the sorority circuit looking in. This means we have the clear vision it takes to make sororities on this campus anything we want them to be. We know what we don’t like about sororities and have the power to ensure that these things do not make their way into our own system. We are not buried under years of Greek tradition, we have no obligations, we have no one to please but ourselves. I have heard the concerns about rush and its ramifications, and I am also concerned, but sororities can be fair. Rush and pledging can be friendly experiences. Hunter and Caroline stress that Davidson women do not have the opportunities to form these kinds of relationships. Women’s eating houses are way too large. I cannot remember the last time I walked into Rusk and recognized every face there. Hunter and Caroline argue that Davidson should not be about cliques, and I agree. No one can deny, however, that cliques have formed in eating houses. In Rusk, we have about 200 girls. There is no way we can be close friends with everyone, so we hang out with the girls we know.

Once we are able to look past the stigma of sororities, we will begin to see the advantages of what this kind of organization has to offer. We have these benefits at our fingertips. We have the intelligence, the principles, and the vision that it takes to ensure that these benefits take precedence. We have the power to make sororities at Davidson work in our favor.

Everyone senses the physical transformation that has filled our campus. Spring has brought beautiful weather, flowering trees, fresh air, and blooming flowers. It is a time of terrific growth and newness. It is a beautiful distraction, and one we should enjoy as much as we can. But the awesome growth, new life, and sense of joy do not stop with the natural world around us. Spring is also a time symbolic of a powerful change inside a person’s heart. For during the Easter season, all of us who choose to believe celebrate the new life that is in Jesus Christ and rejoice at His living within our hearts. Although life in Christ is “year-round” and though we should rejoice in Christ always (I Thess. 5:16), each Easter we focus on the celebration of our Lord’s death and subsequent resurrection. For it is by the power of His resurrection that He receives us into life with joy.

Traditionally, the church focuses on Christ’s suffering or passion (from Latin pati, “to suffer”) during Holy Week, which began yesterday with Palm Sunday. Congregations read the gospel accounts of the events leading up to Jesus’ crucifixion. We think about Christ’s precious death and its purpose, although we cannot fathom the love that God’s gift entails. Three plain trees, to be planted for this week, will join the beautiful, flowering trees of spring. They are crosses, set up again by Christian individuals as a reminder of Jesus’ last week on the earth. We hope that the display will add perspective to our lives in the last few days before break. We realize that different individuals will see different meanings in the crosses. Some may ask why they stand where they do. Some may cry out that religion is being forced upon others. Christians see these man-made trees as bare and brutal in their function as an awful means of execution, but we also see the crosses as symbols of new life and hope. For the cross on which Jesus died marks our entrance into life. Our desire is not to put down anyone or to assert the right to put up a display but to express God’s love for each person in the world. We hope to share this love outside the four walls of a church and to recall this love in our daily walks. So as you pass by the crosses this week, please remember the message and intent behind them: the pain and death of Good Friday ends in triumph when Jesus is raised on Easter morning. If you have questions or comments, know that you can call a student on the list to be posted with the crosses. If you would like to add your name to those who have volunteered to support the display and to be available for discussion, please call 896-6335. Have a wonderful, joyous Easter Break.