6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

At inauguration, Clinton urges cooperation

Congress started their sessions again as Bill Clinton was officially inaugurated for his second term as President. In his speech, Clinton called for an end to racial divisions and a new “community of spirit.” He stated that he and the Republican Congress would try to work together and follow the words of the late Joseph Cardinal Bernardin when he said, “Life is too short to be filled with acrimony and division.”

In other activities, the Senate quickly approved the selections of Madeleine Albright as Secretary of State by a vote of 99-0. Albright said, “The Senate vote signals a new era of foreign policy and I can’t wait to get started.” She will be the first female ever to hold the post. The Senate also confirmed the appointment of Bill Cohen to head the Defense Department. He also was voted in on a 99-0 result. Cohen wants to expand NATO, while consulting Russia, encourage more cooperation with Congress and the executive branch on military affairs, and will also try to “find a new focus” to security relations in the Asian Pacific arena. He is the first Republican to be part of a Clinton cabinet.

Finally, most news sources indicate budget gaps are narrowing between Congress and the President, meaning a balanced budget by the year 2000 is all the more likely.
-CNN

Chickens may go nuclear

Those problems of nuclear waste could be finished with the help of our friends from the poultry world. According to Acres USA, “Scientists at South Carolina’s Savannah River Ecology Laboratory have been studying chickens foraging at a nearby nuclear weapons plant. It seems that certain types of poultry have a high metabolism that reduces radioactivity in birds as they grow.” The scientists hope the birds could forage contaminated areas and then be taken somewhere else and eat normal food. The radioactive material would pass through their system and after ten days their meat and eggs could be fit for human consumption. They are worried about what to do with the radioactive manure and consumer doubts about eating the meat. Lehr Brisbin, one researcher, said, “If the meat is cheaper, and you call it ‘radioactively cleaned’ meat, and you put it on the shelf for half price, I bet people in this country would eat it.” The FDA has yet to even consider this possible new product.
-The Nation

Seinfeld features expensive actors

They say that an average life of a sitcom lasts about 8 seasons. Seinfeld is going on its ninth. While Jerry says he will return to his #1 rated show, his co-stars will also, but at star prices. Each is demanding $1 million per episode, earning $22 million for the season. The show earns $250 million from commercials each year and NBC’s profits expect to be $100 million. The early signs look as if NBC will agree to the unprecedented terms, but industry analysts say that it will lead TV to succumb to the outrageous bidding prices that have taken over movies and professional sports. Hit shows have demanded such prices most of the time. Ted Danson received $800,000 an episode for Cheers and the cast of Friends fought for and received almost the same amount. TV has been losing viewers to a burgeoning cable and movie rental industry rapidly. Only the word of mouth shows can ensure they will get enough viewers to stay successful. TV networks are realizing that only star power can guarantee a strong viewership. Seinfeld continues to win Emmys and Golden Globes and receive decent appreciation from the critics. It has filmed some 200 episodes. At least the world will be able to see millionaire actors perform in their living room each night.
-Slate

ELSEWHERE

JANUARY 27, 1997

The Davidsonian and Beyond Davidson International

Swiss agree to compensation fund for Holocaust victims

Banks in Switzerland are now ready to put up the money to help pay the surviving members and familyof Holocaust victims who placed their money in Swiss banks during persecution by the Germans. No details of the fund or the amount of money that will be reimbursed have been stated yet, but Jewish groups see the announcement as a breakthrough in sometimes difficult relations with the Swiss.

National

O.J. Civil Trial Closes, Jurors Begin Deliberations

Closing arguments ended in the O.J. Simpson civil trial as the defense used the same strategy that helped win the criminal trial. They attacked the evidence as untrustworthy. Lawyer Robert Blaser said the police investigation of his client was one of “corruption and contamination.” The prosecuting attorney points to Simpson's shaky testimony and claims the evidence overwhelmingly proves Simpson is guilty.

Ebonics issue goes to Congress

Students, educators, and members of Congress were able to hold a debate on the Ebonics issue as it went before a panel that controls school aid. Senator Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) said there appears to be little agreement on whether Ebonics is a “bridge” to learning standard English. Congressman Peter King (R-N.Y.) said Ebonics is “a verbal slew of street slang and bad grammar,” and that no federal money should be used in programs that insist it is a language. Students and teachers said they need all the help and training they can get to achieve their ultimate goal of being able to speak better English.

Clinton and U.N. Leader agree to cooperate

President Clinton and U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan of Ghana traded vows to try and pay back $1 billion in back dues owed by the government to U.N. operations. Annan said that both the U.N. and the U.S. want the same thing in a “reformed United Nations.” Clinton said Congress had no excuse not to pay the dues if such progress occurred.

Local

S.C. House wants a referendum on Confederate flag issue

The South Carolina House rejected Rep. Governor David Beasley’s compromise plan on the flag, voting 85-32 in favor of a referendum to allow the voters to decide what to do with the flag. South Carolina is the only state to fly the Confederate flag on its capitol. The Senate can still accept Beasley’s plan or design a referendum of its own.

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Field's yield
5 Flat hills
10 Cook
14 The best
15 Of fleecy beasts
16 Patriot Nathan
17 Box
18 Peruses
19 Gaelic
20 Makes taut
22 Voided court case
24 French department
26 Debtor's promise
27 Reacts in an angry manner
30 Circles the globe
34 Tom
35 Intended
37 New Deal org
38 Common abbr.
39 *— my brother's per?”
41 Avail
44 Metric measure
46 Rather and Duryea
47 Sutherland of movies
49 Apple dessert
52 Obtained
53 Writer Asimov
62 Press
63 River in France
65 Swear word
66 Words of
69 Tablets
70 Like a fat
71 Cabbage salad

DOWN
1 The players
2 Lasso
3 — even keel
4 Continue
5 Bit of food
6 Holiday time
7 Variety of cat
8 “The King—"
9 School terms
10 Heavenly being
11 Mata—
13 Touch
21 Superlative suffix
23 Cake
25 Send payment
29 Of a Peruvian people
31 Relative by marriage
36 Atmospheres
39 Apportion
40 Certain exams
45 Series installment
46 Physicians
48 Jibes
50 To wilt
51 “Have a nice—"
54 Witticism
55 — Major
56 On in years
57 Old pronoun
59 Frozen rain
60 — girl
61 Masticate
64 After deductions

Crossword answers are ready to clip out and paste up... Halftones are screened 85 lines to the inch.