DAVIDSON “The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Happy THANKSGIVING

Changing the way we live. RLO creates options for housing. NEWS 3

A phalanx at Patterson. Reynolds defends the frats. OPINIONS 5

Durwin Striplin, Associate Professor of Chemistry, gives his two tablespoons of blood for the Project Life Bone Marrow Drive.

Musical talent on display. Chamber Singers impress. A&L 7

Cameron craziness. Men’s hoops loses big at Duke. Sports 12

Bill Giduz

408 give blood for Project Life Bone Marrow Drive

By Liz NEIHEISEL
Staff Writer

The Project Life: Bone Marrow Drive for the 1997-98 school year concluded Wednesday with a final tally of 408 people
typed. The drive took place in the Morrison Room of the Union on Nov. 19 and 20 from 10:00 a.m.
to 3:00 p.m. each day, allowing staff, students, and community members to participate. This year’s drive was the most successful
since the initial bone marrow drive nearly eight years ago, which typed 473 people. It was the first drive in
many years to exceed 400 participants.

While this year’s success was undoubtedly a result of the sizable freshmen class, an impressive number of upperclassmen who had
never been typed also became involved. Senior Ryan Gist felt the impetus to be typed after the father of a
close friend was diagnosed with leukemia. “I never really thought about it in years past,” Gist said. “(This situation) definitely
made it a more serious issue.”

Classics Professor Peter Krentz, who has taught at Davidson for 18 years, came out to be typed after hearing fellow
professor Susan Roberts speak about her own son’s illness, and the need for constant growth within the bone marrow registry.
While many students came out to support loved ones and friends plagued by the ill-fated disease, the majority came out
of a simple desire to help those in need. “It’s a good thing to do and it’s easy,” freshman Sarah
Brautigen said. “It could be anybody you know that needs bone marrow,” classmate Monica Martinez added.

All those typed were eager to encourage others to become involved. “Why not?” asked freshman Justin Boner. “It takes five
minutes to potentially save a life.”

The success of the drive was due, in no small part, to the extensive efforts of this year’s Project Life
Committee, headed by general chairperson Kate Stevens. “I really want to commend the efforts of this year’s committee,” she said.
“It wasn’t the work of four or five people, but all 25 working in equal amounts to educate and publicize
on campus and to raise money for the drive.”

“It was really exciting for the Committee to see such a great turnout,” said Meredith Benke, education chair for Project
Life. “The days of the drive are really an experience after working so hard. It’s great to see how much
has come together.”

Fellow committee heads included publicity chair Ginger Bond and fundraising chair Charles LeGrand. Bond, a junior who has been involved
with Project Life since her freshman year, felt gratified by the results of the drive. As publicity chair, Bond played
a leading role.In advertising the drive around campus, with a focus on the freshman halls, LeGrand, also a senior, worked
with T-shirt sales, letter-writing campaigns, and various other programs to pool funds for this year’s drive, surpassing the nearly $15,000
required for the drive by over $1,000.

See Project Life page 3

Student, prospective treated for ‘excessive consumption’ of alcohol

By SARAH OGDEN
News Editor

Two incidents of dangerous alcohol ingestion were reported two Saturdays ago. One Davidson College student was found “intoxicated and unconscious”
in Richardson dorm at 12:39 a.m. after consuming alcohol at an unknown location, according to a Nov. 16 police report
by Campus Police Sergeant Dave Harding. The student was transported by ambulance to Charlotte’s University Hospital, with the student’s Hall
Counselors following medics. Associate Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano was notified, the police report said.

The other episode of dangerous consumption involved a 17-year-old baseball recruit who was visiting the College. The prospective was found
“really intoxicated” in Irwin dorm at 1:48 a.m. the same night, said Campus Police Lieutenant David E. McLaurin. The recruit,
said McLaurin, had been drinking both liquor and beer. According to McLaurin’s report, the prospective consumed alcohol at the Air
Band party at Phi Delta Theta (better known as Phi Delt), leading to the state of intoxication. The recruit then
returned to Irwin and fell unconscious. The prospective was taken to University Hospital as well, and baseball coaches Dick Cooke
and Brett Boretti were called. Boretti went to the hospital, while Cooke contacted the recruit’s father.

“The Phi Delt party was shut down an hour early because of this incident,” the police report said. McLaurin asked
that names and identifying characteristics of those involved in the incidents not be released.

Phi Delt President Ellis Boyle said that he has asked other Phi Delt members about the baseball recruit and has
found that the fraternity house bears no direct responsibility for the episode. “I think it’s a problem,” said Boyle, “but
it’s more of a problem with the kid and his host,” not the house, although “there is some regret” by
Phi Delt. “We were relieved to find he was okay,” Boyle continued. “I think we were on top of it,”
Boyle said, pointing out that members of the house helped take care of the recruit. “We (at Phi Delt) have
been very vigilant” observing alcohol regulations, especially because of the recent cases of alcohol poisoning at other national fraternities, he
continued. “That's not what we’re about.”

“We think Air Band was a success,” Boyle said. “We think we handled Risk Managing very well.”

Patterson Court Advisor and Residence Life Coordinator Jim Barber

See Alcohol page 3

INDEX
EDITORIAL .................. 2
NEWS ......................... 3
ARTS & LIVING ........... 7
SPORTS ...................... 12

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
