Ov Mary-E.isE BRUMFIELD Staff Writer

Professorships... scholarships... building repairs, etc., are all integral parts of Davidson College. But, as with anything in life, they are not free. So, where does the school get money for these and other college necessities? They receive it from the Endowment for Davidson.

According to Dr. John Kelton, Executive Director for Institutional Research, the “Endowment for Davidson,” which has just increased from $185 million to over $200 million, is comprised of funds given to the college by many different people over the years. The people who donate the money to the college designate their contributions as either restricted or unrestricted. Those donations which their contributors allocate for specific things, like buildings, are classified as “restricted.” Those funds that can be spent on any needs of the college are considered unrestricted.

Kelton explained that the endowment itself is invested in bonds, stocks, and even property. He said that it is the interest (or earnings) made on those moneys that is used for different things at Davidson, not the endowment itself.

Davidson College endowment passes the $200 million mark

Source: Aug. 25, 1997 Chronicle of Higher Education

So, out of $200 million endowment dollars, only about $10 million, or 5%, would be used for Davidson College. Specifically, the college maintains about 36% of its endowment in U.S. stocks and is currently expanding its global investments. The increase in the endowment fund, Kelton stated, was due to the fact that the stock market has gone up recently during its current “bull” cycle. He is worried about what a possible correction or the recent fall in the market could mean for the endowment, however.

As the numbers stand right now, 23 liberal arts colleges have endowments higher than Davidson’s. Just last week, Davidson’s endowment surpassed the $200 million mark due to a rising stock market and continued, enthusiastic alumni giving. However, due to fluctuations of the stock market, Robert Norfleet, VP of Business and Finance, is skeptical of future increases of this extent.

Senior class donates outdoor classroom

By Jessica GOODSON News Editor

The class of 1998 will officially leave its mark on the Davidson College campus in the form of an outdoor classroom. A majority of over half of the seniors who recently voted for senior gift ideas preferred an outdoor classroom over a scholarship to promote diversity or a book fund which would pay for a student’s books for a semester.

Prior to the vote, the Senior Class Gift Committee presented gift ideas to key faculty members to gauge their feasibility. Robert Collins, Director of the Physical Plant, said an outdoor classroom was reasonable, considering the target budget. He also told the Committee that there was plenty of green space on campus to construct an outdoor classroom, although no decision has presently been made regarding the classroom’s location.

At the kick-off last Thursday in the 900 Room, President Vagt challenged the Committee to garner 100 percent participation from the senior class this year. He promised to donate $5,000 out of his own pocket if the Committee succeeds in doing so.

The class of 1998 will begin soliciting money this year as part of a three-year plan to raise funds. “Our short-term goal is to get 100 percent participation,” said committee co-chair Liz Boehmler. “As of now, we have about 75 percent class participation. We have 30 class agents soliciting between 10 and 13 students each.” The Committee projects that approximately $10,000 will be raised by spring 1998. The long-term goal is to raise $30,000 by the end of the fiscal year 2000.

Because the College does not typically grant advance funding for “tangible” gifts such as the outdoor classroom, construction will not commence until the class of 1998 has the financial resources.

Davidson is one of the few colleges in the nation that can claim over 50 percent alumni contribution to its annual fund. In fact, Davidson consistently stays above 51 percent alumni giving. The three-year giving plan keeps students tied to their alma mater after they graduate. “Contributions for the senior gift are counted in alumni giving,” said Boehmler. “It’s the epitome of our shift from active students to alumni.” Co-chair Shakeem Lane agreed, adding that the attitude of the senior class has been fairly positive so far. “People realize that even though they might not have chosen this particular gift, the idea of giving is to represent class solidarity,” he said.

Tuition and room and board only finance a fraction of the College’s operations. The remaining costs are covered by theendowment, foundation grants, and the annual fund. “By getting people to give, you’re getting them in the routine of investing in Davidson College,” said Lane. “It’s more than just giving money; it’s contributing interest, time, and concern.” Pledges will be collected by November 21, and at that point, a committee will be formed to execute further funding for and construction of the outdoor classroom. Davidson boasts two semi-outdoor classrooms currently: “Dogwood Dell” behind Martin Chemistry Building and the benches encircling the well in front of Chambers. Boehmler said that this classroom may include a podium and chairs and will be modeled after outdoor classrooms on other campuses.

Alcohol policy: a sticking point in the 60s, too

Students: Does alcohol mix with Davidson’s religious ties?

Laura CRAVER
Staff Writer

In 35 years, Davidson’s alcohol policy has evolved from a short five lines in the 1962-63 Wildcat Handbook to a lengthy 10 pages in the 1997-98 version. Drinking and Davidson have had a rocky coexistence, as students and administration seem to constantly question whether alcohol and academics are compatible.

In 1962, the Davidsonian polled approximately 540 students in an attempt to capture the students’ sentiments regarding alcohol and the controversy that surrounded it. Students who found flaw in the alcohol policy outnumbered the students on campus who drank. Of the students polled, 66 percent said they drank, while an even larger 68 percent expressed a “dissatisfaction” with the current alcohol policy.

The alcohol policy governing the students in 1962 was as follows: “A student will ordinarily be suspended if he is found guilty of drinking, possessing, or being under the influence of an alcoholic beverage while within the town limits of Davidson or while attending any off-campus event sponsored entirely or in part by Davidson College.”

A proposed abolishment of regulating or restricting off-campus drinking found the most favor among the 68 percent who opposed the current plan. “The drinking rule in regard to off-campus drinking is absurd and will never be enforced or upheld,” one anonymous senior said. “It’s time the faculty got realistic and faced the facts of life.” Another student defended off-campus drinking, saying, “There are often some occasions on school-sponsored trips that call for and often pressure a student to drink socially. Why not?”

Still, 23 students requested the rule be clarified, especially concerning the “under the influence” clause. Seventeen students criticized what they termed the “hypocrisy” of the statement that fraternity presidents are required to submit after each dance weekend regarding drinking rule infractions they have witnessed, and asked that it be dropped. A lonely eight students found the present rules were not sufficiently strict and did not go far enough to curb drinking.

The students were asked whether they believe students should be allowed to have alcohol on Davidson’s campus. Of those polled, 53 percent were in favor of the change. And 48 percent supported having a “limited consumption” policy on campus. Such questions prompted one student to ask if “it would be feasible” to allow possession but prohibit consumption. Another student who felt alcohol did not belong at Davidson drew his response from the College’s close relationship with the Presbyterian Church: “Because Davidson College is supposed to be a religious-oriented college, it has a duty to keep alcohol completely off the campus.”

Students who favored allowing the possession of alcohol but who were not so comfortable with the “limited consumption” policy suggested that alcohol be stored in locked automobile trunks or similarly secured cabinets in fraternity houses. “There is no such thing as limited consumption” was a statement repeated by more than 50 percent of the polled students. Many feared the academic reputation of Davidson would be tarnished if the alcohol policy was more lenient. “The academic atmosphere which still remains would be shot to hell,” commented one senior who admitted to having had drinks in his room. The “degree of limitation” was the major problem for those who favored both “possession and consumption.”

The most prevalent idea was that drinking could be allowed only in fraternity houses and only on dance weekends. Students suggested this might cut down on automobile accidents by “rendering unnecessary off-campus excursions to drink.” A “fringe” of nearly 10 percent of all those taking the poll expressed a wish for no limitations whatsoever. Students in favor of on-campus consumption used the “maturity” theme as their main argument, backing it up with the suggestion that other rules could be invoked to prevent “ungentlemanly conduct.” “This is supposed to be a college — not a womb,” one irritated senior said. “I believe the rules of common courtesy and etiquette accompanied by the rules on ungentlemanly conduct are quite adequate for the regulation of drinking at Davidson,” said a “drinking” sophomore.

Few would argue with the observation that Davidson has become more tolerant of alcohol. Davidson’s policy on alcohol can be hard to decipher and contradictory when read, but underneath it lies years of controversy and conversation.