14. DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1997

By AARON DUNHAM
Staff Writer

DAVIDSON, Feb. 3 - Two games. Two heartbreaking losses. That was the case Monday for the women’s basketball team, which
dropped its second contest in three days to Furman, 63-54.

On Feb. 1, the Lady Paladins upended the Wildcats in overtime in Greenville, S.C. Monday’s loss pushed Davidson’s losing streak
to five games while Furman bolstered its league-leading conference record to 7-2.

“We haven’t given up,” said coach John Filar. “We just have to find a way to eliminate some of the
defensive letdowns and key turnovers.”

The game was typical of many defeats throughout the recent skid, marked by those same letdowns and crucial errors.

The team got off to a sluggish start, shooting 34% from the floor in the first half as the Paladins
built a 13-point advantage.

Davidson then made its trademark rally. Led by an improved offensive attack and a ball-hawking defense (Furman shot just 26%
in the second half), the Wildcats were able to cut into Furman’s lead. A layup by freshman Jen O’Brien with
4:49 to play gave Davidson the lead.

But after a Katy Kamp layup, which put Davidson up by three, Furman went on a 14-2 run to close
the game. Davidson committed three crucial turnovers during the stretch and the Paladins shot 10-of-13 from the foul line.

The contest was the fourth straight against one of the league leaders for the Wildcats.

“As competitive as the conference is, it’s tough to play four games against the top 3 teams,” said Filar. “We
haven’t even come close to playing our best basketball yet. We still have a long way to go.”

Judy Kirsch slides past the Mountaineer defense at the Wildcats’ 88-84 overtime win on Saturday. Kirsch poured in a game-high
23 to help lead the Wildcats to victory.

Scorebox from page 13

CK continues assault on record books

Becomes all-time leading rebounder, eyes scoring standard

By AARON DUNHAM & MICHAEL KRUSE
Staff Writer and Sports Editor

Senior Carolyn Kirsch became the all-time leading rebounder in Davidson women’s basketball history with a first-half board Monday against Furman,
eclipsing the previous mark of 816, set by Mike Frankhouser from 1979-83.

She stands fifth in the Southern Conference with 7.6 rebounds per contest and now has 832 career caroms.

Kirsch will also, barring injury, become the program’s most prolific scorer ever by the end of the season. In the
App. St. game, Kirsch hurdled Sarah Womack into the second slot on Davidson’s all-time scoring chart. Womack, coincidentally, was inducted
into the Athletic Hall of Fame during halftime of the men’s game Saturday afternoon in Belk.

Kirsch currently has 1,258 career points, leaving her just 42 points shy of breaking Frankhouser’s standard of 1,299.

“I knew if I played consistently, I'd probably break some records,” Kirsch said earlier this week. “I don’t really think
about it that much, but if it happens, it happens. It would be really neat to be the all-time leading
scorer at Davidson College.”

If the 5-11 Heidelberg, Germany, product plays anything like she did this weekend vs. the Mountaineers (23 points), she will
likely reach the landmark away from home.

After Tuesday’s home date with Western Carolina, the Wildcats play a pair of road games before returning to Davidson for
a Feb. 20 matchup with East Tenn. St.

No place like home

Saturday’s game was played in front of 1,202 fans, the largest crowd to see a women’s basketball home outing this
season.

With the victory, the Wildcats upped their conference record to 4-5. They are now just one game behind Ga. Southern
for that elusive fourth-place spot in the league. The top four teams host tournament quarterfinal contests Feb. 26.

“Our goal now,” said coach John Filar, “is to battle for that home court game.”

Twin killing

Considering their injury-prone histories, seeing second-year twins Jamie Brown and Kerry Brown in uniform and on the court at the
same time has been a rarity for Wildcat fans over the past two seasons.

The Appalachian game was therefore a long time coming. Together, the duo hit 15-of-23 shots, recording 35 points, 10 rebounds,
and eight assists in 55 minutes.

To swoosh or not to swoosh

The Nike-Reebok corporate sponsorship battle manifested itself this week among the women’s hoopsters.

The team, having professed allegiance to Planet Reebok all season, opted instead for Kingdom Swoosh Monday night and donned Nikes
against Furman.

“I think we just complained too much about the Reeboks,” explained Kirsch. “I think they finally said, fine, we’ll get
you the Nikes. They just showed up in front of our lockers before the Furman game.

“I didn’t even have to break them in. I just wore them and it felt like I had been wearing
them for a couple months.”

Cheap Weekend Getaway Airfares

Travel Network, located near Harris Teeter at exit 28, is selling the new "e saver fares" which are up to
80% off regular airfares.

Recent round trip fares include WDC, ATL, JAX, or Nashville for $79. Chicago, Buffalo, or Ft. Myers for $99. DFW,
HOU, or MSP for $119.

You must book on Wed. - Fri, fly the following Sat. and return Sun., Mon., or Tues. For fares for
the upcoming weekend, call or visit Travel Network on Wed. - Fri. any week and take off for the weekend!

at LAKE NORMAN

SouthLake Shopping Center, I-77 -- Exit 28
(Between Roses and Harris Teeter)
896-7480
