Che David ALENDA’~ LUX UBa ia ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE MONDAY, MARCH 17, 1997 VOLUME 88, NUMBER 21

Board of Trustees chairman Craig Wall dies at 59

By Mary Care JALONICK
Editor Emerita

After nine years as the Chairman of Davidson’s Board of Trustees, E. Craig Wall, Jr., 59, died of a heart
attack March 5 in Charlotte. The CEO of Canal Industries, a lumber supplier and holding company, Wall was a prominent
businessman and community leader in his home of Conway, South Carolina. Wall graduated from Davidson in 1959, and each of
his three children have attended Davidson. His youngest son, Ben, is a junior.

His funeral drew hundreds of people from around the region, including U.S. Senator Ernest “Fritz” Hollings and South Carolina Governor
David Beasley. Wall was elected to Davidson’s Board of Trustees in 1976 as an alumni representative. He became vice-chair in
1985, and became chair upon the death of then-chair Ben Craig. President John Kuykendall says Wall was “a wonderful role
model and personification of all the good things we try to promote at Davidson.”

Current Vice-chair Olin Nisbet, '63, of Charlotte will serve as interim chair until the trustees elect a permanent chair. Under
Wall’s chairmanship, the Board has made many important decisions regarding the College’s ties with the Presbyterian Church and building expansion.

Wall attended Harvard Business School and joined his father in operating Canal Industries in 1962. He became CEO of the
company upon his father’s death in 1985. He contributed time and money to countless organizations. At one point, he was
serving with 16 different organizations and had completed terms of service with 22 others. He was president of the South
Carolina United Way campaign, chair of the trustees at Brookgreen Gardens, and a trustee of the Conway Hospital Foundation at
the time of his death. He received several awards and honorary degrees throughout his lifetime. In addition to Davidson, he
served on the Boards of Presbyterian College, Coker College, Clemson University, and Montreat Anderson College.

Wall’s heavy involvement began during his college career. He was president of the Key Club, the Honor Council, Kappa Sigma
fraternity, and ODK. He played baseball and basketball, and was captain of the football team. He also served as an
SGA Senator.

Craig Wall in 1988, Bill Guz Friends remember Wall on page 3.

TIMMMMBER

Some of the oldest trees on campus have had to be removed for the branching out of the new life
science center which began before Spring Break.

Bill Giduz

Faculty Executive Council denies SGA-backed Veterans’ Day proposal

By NARESH NAGELLA
Associate News Editor

The supporters of Veteran’s Day won and lost a battle during the last two weeks, but seem to be gaining
ground in their effort to get the holiday officially recognized by the college. The first victory came before Spring Break,
when after two and one half hours of debate, the Student Government Association passed a resolution to recommend that the
school amend the official calendar to recognize and honor Veteran’s Day by letting professors cancel afternoon classes. But, last Tuesday,
the Executive Council rejected the students’ proposal.

However, just to reach the faculty committee, the resolution had to undergo much change and get past a vociferous minority
opposition in the SGA. The resolution was brought to the SGA by Junior Eric Sapp. He organized supporters of the
resolution to obtain some 435 petition signatures over two days. The petition the students signed said Veteran’s Day could have
been recognized since MLK day created a “special category of national holidays that are deemed important enough to the school
that it is willing to cancel afternoon classes on those days.” It also cited the “great debt we owe to
our veterans” and the fact that until 1970 allDavidson students had to serve in the Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC).
The resolution stated that time should have been set aside “for speakers and activities that will make the student body
more aware of the sacrifices and experiences of the men and women who have served our country in times of
war.” However, many senators were not happy that the resolution used Martin Luther King Day as a defense and rationale
for Veteran’s Day. Senior Independent senator John Hutzley says, “I have a problem with wanting some holidays recognized and not
allowing others. [The resolution] creates a problem. See Vets on page 4.

Rides program planned for Thursday
By ANN CULP - News Editor

If all goes as planned, the Rides program will begin Thursday with a five-week trial period. It will run on
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. The student-financed and student-operated shuttle will leave Richardson Dorm on the hour and go to Harris
Teeter (Exit 28), Movies at the Lake, Rainbow Deli, Lanes at the Lake (Exit 25), and Target. Vans will be
rented from the Davidson Motor Pool and will be paid for out of Activities Tax Council funds. The ATC will
be partially reimbursed by the $2 charge for a round trip ride. To prevent drivers from collecting and carrying cash,
it is proposed that individual ride tickets and cards of 6 round-trip rides for $10 will be sold at the
Union. For this first week of runs, students will be able to pay their fares directly to the driver.

Student volunteers who have been trained by the Davidson Police Department in an hour-long class will drive the shuttle. Fraternity
and eating house members might be able to receive volunteer hours as drivers. The Shuttle service was conceived by the
Transportation Task Force created by Dean Shandley. The project will now be turned over to the SGA Rides Committee to
run. But the task force will continue monitoring it.

“We are really excited that we are so close to beginning something so many people have expressed a desire for.
Hopefully, students will use the service, as well as volunteer to help us out. Now, it's just up to all
of us to make it a success,” says Warren Buford, a member of the task force.

Students needed transportation for travel, medical needs, cultural and social opportunities, internships, and academic requirements. In addition, the committee wanted
to address the needs of a “safe rides” program for intoxicated drivers. The “band-aid” solutions of airport shuttles at holidays
and a department’s rental of a van from the Davidson Motor Pool were not meeting these needs.

The short-term recommendation of the committee created the Rides program. Long-term recommendations involve the possibilities of a Davidson town shuttle
to Cornelius and Huntersville, an extension of the bus service which currently runs to Huntersville at Exit 25, and enlarging
the Davidson Motor Pool to allow greater options for vehicles and drivers. Also being considered are the addition of permanent
staff to serve as drivers, and investigating the opportunities to involve SADD, MADD, and/or the Red Cross with a safe
rides program at Davidson. This last option would involve developing a SADD chapter on campus.

Those interested in volunteering should attend an informational meeting Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Conference Room in the Union.

HOROSCOPE............ 12
NEWS BRIEFS... 2
ELSEWHERE... 6
CROSSWORD... 6
EDITORIAL... 8
SPORTS WRAP-UP... 13
ARTS & LIVING.........10

Davidson, NC 28036
