10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

A TRIBUTE TO
MONDAY, APRIL 28, 1997

JOHN BELL
Class of 1999

CYNTHIA LEWIS
Chair of the English Department

MANY PEOPLE BELIEVE that John Kuykendall does everything perfectly. But those of us who witnessed his showing of the “Macarena”
at last September’s “50’s” dance know differently. What Dr. Kuykendall lacks in moves, however, he more than compensates for in
sheer mental agility. Indeed, if the “Macarena” has done little to promote his presidential stature, the same cannot be said
of his mind.

“I swear, that man has a photographic memory,” says one of his former students.

“He’s an inspiration in the classroom,” she adds, “but he wants you to know everything!”

How can I assure her that Dr. Kuykendall’s steel-trap brain intimidates even her professors? As he calls a faculty meeting
to order and listens to various colleagues stand and announce, pontificate, and opine, he appears to be doodling—left-handed inverter that
he is—on his notes. But let a speaker at that meeting misremember one detail from the College Constitution or Faculty
Bylaws and, without skipping a beat, he looks up just long enough to set the record straight, then resumes doodling
and, more to the point, listening intently. I often wonder if a critical detail has ever escaped his careful notice.

Such remarkable focus, however, culminates in his sermons and public addresses. No one I’ve ever heard preach can talk so
eloquently and yet so accessibly about the spirit, and no one I’ve ever heard speak about Davidson College can do
it so spiritually.

“I don’t really feel like going to that dinner tonight,” said one of my friends recently about an official College
dinner she was obligated to attend. “But John Kuykendall is speaking, and I don’t want to miss it.”

After hearing the first sermon he preached at DCPC as President of Davidson College, I wrote him a note to
say I was certain that God Himself must have been an English major to have elicited such grace from His
minister. Although Dr. Kuykendall is always supposed to have an agenda when he speaks—whether raising money for Davidson or winning
souls for the Lord—no one who hears him can doubt what he really cares about is people and the human
heart. Nor does he seem to recognize the full power of his words. All that intelligence is, finally, trained not
on his own glory or anyone else’s, but on the goal that has become the byword of his presidency: service.

In John Kuykendall, we have enjoyed that rarity of gifts in today’s academic community: an intellectual president. One of my
great pleasures in the past thirteen years—and one that I know many of my colleagues have shared—is that of sitting
next to John at some official event or other and getting to talk with him about books. “I’ve just rediscovered
‘Little Gidding,’” he said to me at the last such occasion, referring to T. S. Eliot’s Four Quartets. What an
overture! Next thing I knew, we were being served dessert.

Macarena... Schmacarena. I'll take John Kuykendall’s heart, soul, and mind any day.

DR. KUYKENDALL is very intimidating to interview. Not because he acts so, but because his words are so beautiful that
transcribing them is a daunting task. I am terrified that I might hear a sentence recorded on my scratchy dictaphone
in the wrong way, not because I think that he will be angry but because I want everyone else to
know what he said. I have interviewed him twice now, and both times he has put me immediately at ease,
lulling me into an awestruck state with the way he quickly and craftily constructs sentences and thoughts. He has a
complete power over an interviewer, like he knows the question before he is asked. He never slips up; challenging questions
do not exist for him.

Upon asking people to write these tributes, I realized how he has impacted so many. Most felt privileged to be
asked, but expressed frustration in attempting to honor such an obviously honorable man. What I received was eight completely different
responses, but all similar in their complete respect. Please take time to read these. They are very special tributes and
were written with great thought and consideration.

Dr. Kuykendall, I feel privileged to have spent time with you. Thank you for loving Davidson like you do.
— Mary Clare Jalonick

OVER THE PAST YEAR, I have labored with four other students, and many faculty, staff and trustee members to find
a replacement for Dr. Kuykendall. In hindsight, our biggest stumbling block as a committee was working to find a replacement
for someone who is truly irreplaceable. Once we stopped looking for another John Kuykendall, and started focusing on the qualities
that made him a great president, our work became much easier. Now, with the task almost complete, I have taken
a moment to reflect.

Dr. Kuykendall incorporates several identifications and essays in his tests. His essays are the most comprehensive questions I have ever
been tested on, and his identifications are often obscure. Naturally, Dr. Kuykendall would disagree as to the obscurity of his
identifications. His “reviews,” he said, “are designed to test not only the breadth, but the depth.”Of our knowledge, and that
they did. I remember one morning quite vividly: it was still very early, and there were about fifteen minutes of
class. Confession was the first Anabaptist confession of faith, drafted at Schleitheim in 1527, and not the moment when Schleitheim
reflected on why I got involved in the process to begin with. I first met Dr. Kuykendall as a professor
in the Fall of 1995. It was Dr. Kuykendall’s tests that gave a new meaning to the phrase “a hard-earned
C.” I broke down in tears and confessed, “I did it,” as I had answered on the exam. Needless to
say, by the time we had finished going over the tests, I had a pile from my first semester here,
and you can imagine how overwhelmed I was to have a class with the president of the college. We met
every Tuesday and Thursday morning at 8:30 a.m. I learned so much that first semester. The first lesson I learned
was that I am not cut out for 8:30 classes. That lesson hit home when I got my first test
back and realized attendance is truly important. Dr. Kuykendall’s tests give new meaning to the phrase, “a hard-earned C.” For
those of you who have never had the pleasure of taking one of Dr. Kuykendall’s tests, I will elaborate. Like
many professors, Dr. Kuykendall left. I was looking forward to crawling back into bed once class was over. Not only
was I exhausted, but I was beginning to get a headache from the smell of the dry-erase marker on the
board in front of me. Dr. Kuykendall stopped lecturing and took out our corrected tests from the week before. Along
with the tests, he had a brown bag filled with bite-size Snickers bars. As we went over the corrected tests,
Dr. Kuykendall would award Snickers bars to students who had given incorrect, but creative answers. The religion scholars among you
will remember that the Schleitheim of Snickers to go along with my C-. Over the past two years, I have
visited with Dr. Kuykendall and spent hours talking with him about Davidson. Faith, passion, and intellect are the qualities that
mark his presidency, and are outweighed only by his steadfast dedication and love for Davidson. I will miss having him
in the President’s office, and I look forward to welcoming him back to Davidson one year from now as a
professor and a friend. Dr. Kuykendall, how do we say thank you?

RUTH PITTARD
Assistant Dean for Community Service and International Student Programs

THOSE OF US WHO ARE living service at Davidson cannot let Dr. John Kuykendall leave without comment. He has been
too important to us both as a mentor and as a friend. As Dr. Kuykendall, he has supported the formation
of a service program at Davidson complete with staff, budget, and institutional presence. As John, he has certainly given of
himself generously. He has appeared in the pouring rain during the Freshman Orientation Service project, hosted and inspired six classes
of Bonner students and parents, attended events, shared words of wisdom, and pulse to engage themselves in a broken world
and find a place for their moral energy” (Robert Coles, The Call of Service, 48). We want to thank him
for living the idea of the gentle, kind, compassionate leader. We thank him for the model of a leader who
leads with his spirit. And finally, we want to thank him for believing that college students hold the key to
the solution of many of our community’s problems, that through their energy and creativity they can make a difference in
our local, national, and world communities, and that, about and should be about as we send graduates into a world
that sometimes seems to forget such homely virtues...servanthood in the classroom and in the courtroom, in the wards of hospitals
and the corridors of power, in banks and corporations and places of worship, in matters civic and social, economic and
political. The graduates of Davidson College in the years to come, as in the years now past, will be able
to make a difference in this world to the extent that they are willing to give lived his life as
an example of the servant leadership that we are trying to teach. He has been attentive both to the program
and its people; he has embraced the philosophy of service and the stewards practicing the philosophy. John has been totally
PRESENT for all who follow the call of serving: “Go there. Be there. Stay there.” We thank Dr. John Kuykendall
for standing firmly for the idea that college students “have the im- in fact, they have a responsibility and privilege
to affect their world for good. Every time that we hear a college student say that service has helped them
stay at Davidson, every time that we hear a student exclaim that helping a child has centered their life, and
every time that we get a thank you note from an agency for a Davidson student’s help, we will think
of Dr. John Kuykendall, whose generous and compassionate spirit began and has sustained the service program at Davidson.
