THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, AUGUST 25, 1997

By Sandy HARTWELL

You would think this would be easy. After all, I’ve had a lot of practice saying goodbye to my children. From the first days of kindergarten to summer camps to weekend retreats and senior trips, I have waved a lot of waves and said some version of “Have fun. Be careful. Do you have everything?” a million times. I am even experienced at saying goodbye to Davidson freshmen. My son Randy was a freshman here in the fall of 1993. And now this week I say goodbye to my daughter Brooke as she begins her freshman year here. I am, you might say, an old hand at this goodbye stuff.

So why doesn’t it get any easier?

I have been putting this moment out of my mind for months. It hasn’t been hard to do so; we were busy getting ready. We shopped and packed and packed and shopped and gave our local stores their best month since Christmas. “Put everything out and then put half of it back,” a Davidson letter advised. We put everything out and added a little more. (What if it rains? What if it snows? What if the laundry shrinks all her clothes? What if the bookstore runs out of notebook paper? What if there is no shampoo in Mecklenburg County?) Amazingly, it all fit in the truck, and on a steamy Mississippi afternoon a few days ago we left family and friends behind in Pass Christian, Miss.

It’s a long way from south Mississippi to Davidson. At least it used to be, but the trip was shorter this time, the miles passing too quickly. Together, we go north from Mobile up green kudzu hills to Montgomery and into Georgia. This trip, there was not one delay. No roadwork. No wrecks in Atlanta to slow us down. North past a dozen factory outlets—no stops this trip—and past the giant South Carolina peach. How can we be in North Carolina already? We just left home. We got here so fast. Eighteen years passed so fast. But here we all are. Eighteen years with many small and large goodbyes under our belts, parents and 472 new Davidson freshmen are now here for the big College Goodbye.

I am amazed at how different and yet similar we all are, how, from so many places and backgrounds, we have all found ourselves here at Davidson today. We have vans and Suburbans laden with trunks and computers and foam boxes. We unpack and hold doors for one another. We gamely carry rugs and refrigerators and negotiate with Security for parking spaces. There is excitement and anticipation and anxiety. Davidson’s support system begins. Hall counselors welcome us and give comforting words and explain the mysteries of Richardson’s room decor, and when and why to yell, “Flushing.” (Men have walked on the moon. Dormitory plumbing has not advanced.)

Orientation is as I remember it four years ago. There are some new faces: President Vagt welcomes us as President Kuykendall did in 1993. Dean Terry has retired, and now Dean Shandley greets us instead. There are other changes: new faculty, new classes, new majors, and co-ed dorms now. But what strikes me immediately as Dean Williams and Dean Shandley and President Vagt speak is what has not changed in the four years since I became a Davidson parent. It is the enduring message and mission of Davidson College: honor, integrity, responsibility, and a strong dedication to a liberal arts education. I remember why I am proud of Davidson.

NEWS FUTURE BLACKMAIL Sarah Falconi of Cincinnati, Ohio,Lesslie Marquez of Waxhaw, N.C., and Ida Wainschel of Morristown, N.J., pose during registration Thursday morning in the Union. Bill Giduz

My children for choosing Davidson — not the easiest route through college — and why I am honored that Davidson chose them. As parent orientation closed, we said goodbye to our children. Final hugs and last-minute reminders in the parking lots, and then we drove away.

My daughter, who 13 years ago this month explained to me that no amount of new crayons or construction paper would entice her to go to kindergarten, is today hurrying me — politely — to the parking lot. How can I be sad when she is so happy? Today she likes — in no particular order — her roommate, her classes, her hall counselors, her adviser, North Carolina weather, and Commons food. It is possible — even probable — her opinions on some of these things will change. But I am confident the combined wisdom of Brooke and Davidson College will triumph, that her 18 years and Davidson’s 160 years will blend well and make the right decisions.

—— Student Perspective ——

Freshman Perspective on

HEATHER LYNN LORCU
Guest Writer

As I stepped out of the car on Thursday morning, I was surrounded by a sea of new faces, all in a line advancing for the Union. After a brief panic brought on by the realization that I didn’t have my social security card, I entered the building only to discover that there was no nametag with my name on the table. Obviously, this was not the most comforting first encounter at Davidson. I began having random irrational thoughts such as, “Was I really accepted here, or have I been receiving mail for the past nine months by mistake?” As you can imagine, I was relieved to hear later that I was not the only freshman to experience this dilemma.

Over the course of the first few stations during registration, I was amused by the varied forms of entertainment that I found. I realized later that one in particular, juggling, seemed to characterize balancing life at Davidson. This thought and the many lectures given by faculty and staff members led me to believe that a big part of our lives over the next four years will be spent “juggling.” We will have to successfully combine our academic, athletic, social, and service schedules to truly understand life at Davidson and beyond.

Although I couldn’t wait to meet new friends and begin learning about the world, I wasn’t pumped for orientation initially. However, the past four days have turned out to be an incredible variety of experiences which I hope will prove to be representative of life at Davidson.

—— Word on the Street ——

Shalini Unnikrishnan
New Delhi, India
Belk 223

"I went to medical school in India for two years, but the program was very inflexible. I am also interested in biology and economics. I came to Davidson because there is some structure, but only beneath the flexibility it offers. I didn’t want to go somewhere with a flexible program but no direction."

Freshmen answer

Asli Kinoglu
Istanbul, Turkey
Rich 308

"I chose Davidson at the last minute. I wasn’t sure if I wanted to study abroad, but the best universities in Turkey are mediocre in the United States. Davidson was not located in a major city and was one of the best schools in the South."

‘Why Davidson?’

Robin Turley
Winter Haven, Fla.
211 Belk

"Davidson is a small school with a good reputation. I like that Davidson has the students try new things, like with the art or cultural diversity requirements."

Neil Burt
Ridgewood, N.J.
141 Belk

"Davidson has a relaxed atmosphere compared to New Jersey. I wanted a small school with accessible professors. I like that the Biology major is engineered towards pre-med. Basically, I would like my experience to be thorough."