THE DAVIDSONIAN - News
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1997

Dean Williams looks back on administrative career
At the end of his tenure, Williams offers ideas on school’s future

Naresh Nagella of the Davidsonian sat down recently with Dean of Faculty Robert Williams, who is stepping down from his
position at the end of the academic year. Williams discussed the challenges a dean of faculty faces and the general
state of the academic environment at Davidson.

The Davidsonian: What is your biggest regret?

Dean Williams: I’ll miss the ability to help the faculty shape educational policy with financial resources. In other words, I
am not going to have a budget to work with anymore. It will just be my ideas along with everybody
else’s. The executive office plays a very powerful role in educational policy.

D: You have indicated that a challenge of the next dean will be to incorporate technology and teaching. How far
are we in that area now?

W: I think we are going to see both faculty and students making use of technology, especially the internet and
the web. In fact, we are already seeing it to some extent. Still, we are never going to lose the
vital center of a faculty member and the student talking with each other in the same room. But we are
going to find ourselves making more use of technology and teaching in some places. We really cannot avoid it. It’s
happening all over the place. I think basic infrastructure will be in place shortly. We have been very slow in
getting the campus network off the ground. We should not have a [big] expense again. Computing is all over the
campus. The cost is ubiquitous.

D: What do you think will be your successor’s biggest challenge?

W: I think it will be to preserve Davidson’s academic excellence within the limits of available resources. In other words,
the pressures are just mounting financially and there is a lot of expense that goes into putting a faculty member
into the classroom. We’ve gotten more and more expensive, and it has gotten harder to keep teaching at the center
of everything we do. I think Davidson is close to the limit of its resource base, so we are going
to have to be able to do more with less. I think that is really the fundamental challenge.

D: Do you see a problem with the continued increase seen in the class sizes these past couple of years?

W: Stated trustee policy is that we should achieve the goal of sixteen hundred on-campus students and we are there.
We may have eighteen hundred total. But we cannot solve long-term [financial] problems with the short-term fix of bringing in
new students. Otherwise, you have to build new facilities. If we stay at steady state enrollment for the next couple
of years, that means we are not going to have additional income from new students. That means you have to
get it from endowment or other sources. That is creating an environment where financial pressures on the institution may come
to that. We have grown steadily since World War II in enrollment, and we are not used to a stable
situation. Not to increase is, in a sense, to change our way of doing things. That will put huge pressures
on the college.

D: How big does the college want to get?

W: We need to stop growing. There remains the question of what do you mean by “small liberal arts college.”
Swarthmore and Haverford have student bodies of about twelve hundred and fourteen hundred. And you have places like Williams and
Wesleyan, which have well over two thousand. The critical thing there is the student to faculty ratio, and we need
to maintain at least eleven students for every faculty member we have. We also need to make sure these people
are full-time professors who are focused on teaching undergraduates well. We could probably add five hundred students and still be
a “small liberal arts college,” but I think it would increasingly change the nature of the place because accessibility to
faculty by students is the most important thing to have, and that gets harder and harder as you grow bigger.

D: A perceived weakness of Davidson is seen as its relatively low rate of faculty compensation compared to colleges of
our caliber. Does this hurt us in attracting or retaining talent?

W: We have had almost no faculty leave for financial reasons. One reason is that we make all our salary
increments based on merit. So there is a wide variation between the highest- and lowest-paid full professor. That means that
the very best people at Davidson are very well paid and unlikely to leave for that reason. So the merit
pay approach is one factor that helps us keep the people we really want to keep [despite having] a lower
compensation rate than Northeastern liberal arts colleges. We have not had a problem with retention. Still, it is not good
for faculty morale to find out that you are ranked fiftieth in faculty resources. We clearly need to keep academics
and faculty compensation at the center of our efforts. Whether someone leaves or not is not really the center of
the ultimate measure. We do want not only to retain people. We need to retain people that are very happy
teaching at Davidson. They are not going to be very happy if they do not believe they are fairly compensated.Determined
by our peers is a goal. The problem is: Who are your peers? If we pick the North Carolina colleges,
we look very good. If we look at the Northeast schools, we find that we are below the mean.

D: How political or divisive could the position be?

W: I think Davidson is a very collegial institution in comparison with others. But deans going back into the faculty
carry plenty of baggage just as a faculty member becoming a dean would. Aside from personnel matters, I cannot think
of really major political conflicts that we have. If anything, we’ve tried to professionalize the faculty so that they are
more involved in the peer review process and the gap between the faculty and the administration was as narrow as
possible. John Kuykendall and I always considered that an important goal. We sought to consult the faculty on almost every
matter and desired to seek consensus. That has made politics more problem-solving by consensus than adversarial. There will always be
politics and some people have said there is nothing worse than academic politics because so little is at stake. We
all love to hear ourselves talk, but I think we really have worked hard now towards consensus and the current
relationship is healthy.

D: How will the next Dean of Faculty be chosen?

W: The next Dean of Faculty will be the result of a national search which is now under way using
the executive committee of the faculty as the search committee. And, it may ultimately be someone from the outside like
Dr. Zimmerman and myself, who both came from other institutions. It could also be a member of the present faculty.
But if it is a member of the present faculty they would have to come out on top in a
national search.

D: The curriculum has gotten more diverse in the past couple of years. Is this in response to a student
demand or just an initiative on the faculty’s part?

W: The student desire for non-Western languages will do nothing but increase over the next couple of years. We are
trying to stay ahead of the curve. We would like to add Arabic at some point. Again, it is a
question of resources and how much a small college can do. The curriculum is broader now, but one thing we
have done is provide students with more opportunities to do independent work with faculty. We actually have students who are
budding scholars and co-authoring articles and publishing with faculty. It is really exciting to watch the sophistication in undergraduate learning
that is now occurring.

D: How do you view the student body as having changed in the past couple of years? We have gotten
more and more competitive to gain admission. How does that reflect on the nature of students?

W: I think it is a more national (and international) and less regional student body. It is more diverse, not
only in terms of racial and ethnic categories but also in terms of intellectual interests of the student body. We
are getting more students with somewhat idiosyncratic interests. We are getting students who just are way above average in certain
things. That can be very fun.

D: How much parental contact does your position involve?

W: I have occasional contact with parents, but not as much as the registrar. I have learned over the years
that they have to be taken very seriously. We are ultimately accountable to them. When a parent calls me, I
will listen very hard. That does not mean I will do what they want. We take parental satisfaction very seriously.
I think one change at Davidson is that we are more customer-oriented than we ever were, due especially to the
skyrocketing price of education. If someone pays twenty-five thousand dollars a year to go to Davidson, they deserve your full
attention.

D: Do you think Davidson's rigorous academic environment and, as a result, its lower grades than could be earned in
other places ultimately helps or hurts students?

W: Our grade point averages tend to be somewhat lower than other schools because perhaps our faculty takes them more
seriously than others and makes it a more rigorous enterprise. That can be disappointing for some students, but it maintains
the value of a Davidson degree. Somebody in the outside world employing a Davidson student knows they are getting someone
who has succeeded in a very tough academic environment. It would be very easy for the faculty to inflate grades
more than they have. But I think holding the line on grade inflation is a sign that Davidson still has
standards. There are other schools where 80 percent of the students graduate with honors. That, to me, does not make
too much sense. I also think students overrate the importance of grades. Most employers care more about the letters of
recommendation that come from the faculty, and that is where Davidson has a clear advantage: Davidson students and faculty get
to know each other so well. It makes for excellent letters that help our students stand out above others.

D: What was your proudest accomplishment?

W: Adding outstanding new members of the faculty, and particularly but not exclusively female faculty, over the course of my
tenure has been the most exciting and rewarding part of my job. I find it exciting to hire very good
people and then watch them achieve things with students.

Dean Williams reflects on his tenure and the challenges facing his successor.
Bill Giduz
