THE DAVIDSONIAN

By JENNIFER MILLER
Staff Writer

Outpost favorites Danielle Howle and the Tantrums created quite a fuss Saturday night. Howle started off the night acoustic and solo. She spent as much time storytelling as singing her signature lullabies and “perky” songs about everyday life. Dressed in jeans and a T-shirt and full of nervous energy, the South Carolinian jumped from story to story talking about everything from retinal scanning on the Internet to the microbes of the X-Files to old people, “All you have to do with old people is show up, you don’t even have to smell good.” Howle knows Davidson — she even made cracks about the Honor Code. The packed Outpost loved her, and she was so impressed with it — she thought we rocked — that she pulled out her camcorder and began filming the audience.

After the break, she went electric with her band, The Tantrums, and the energy level soared. She made Tigger look lethargic as she hopped, jumped, and whipped her microphone cord with the music. The crowd was on its feet and dancing everything from Shag (American style) to head-banging to Riverdance-inspired hopping until after midnight. One satisfied customer exclaimed, “I’m diggin’ it hard core!”

Howle described the band’s music as “rock” for lack of a better word, saying, “You’ve got to call it something, and you’re always going to bother someone.” Her set of folk, rock, and country-punk included old classics like the hard-rocking “Big Puffy Girl Handwriting,” and the slow ballad “Back of Your Mind.” The band includes Howle on the vocals and guitar, Troy Tague on drums, John Furr on lead guitar, and Bryan “Big Horse” Williams on bass.

Yo La Tengo threesome grooves Tremont Music Hall

By Carrie Morris
Arts & Living Editor

CHARLOTTE — Yo La Tengo graced the stage of Tremont Music Hall here Friday night. The threesome is comprised of extreme talent. Georgia Hubley plays drums, guitar, and keyboard, and is the prodigal daughter of the masters who wrote Sesame Street and Electric Company jingles. Ira Kaplan commands guitars and the “New Wave” organ, and James McNew is addicted solely to the bass guitar with a steady throb which resonated in my chest as I got in the car to go home — always a good sign of a quality show. They all share the responsibility of vocals. The music is the focal point of their sound. Hence, vocals play a role as another instrument which is not always pleasing to the lyrically minded like me. But every once in a while, I caught pieces of poetry throughout. Their brows furl as they crank out ubiquitous guitar-driven melodies and hauntingly beautiful ballads as they seem to draw more attention to their music than to themselves.

I had to masquerade as a fan while unfamiliar with their sound, but this show gave me a sweet introduction. They have put out a number of albums, including Electr-o-Pura, Ride the Tiger, and their latest, I Can Hear the Heart Beating as One.

By WESLEY GOLDSBERRY
Arts & Living Editor

Less than two weeks following the first concert in this year’s Concert Series, the Series...Brought one of Davidson's own back to Hodson Hall to celebrate the 200th anniversary of one of history’s finest Romantic composers: Rufus Hallmark ‘65 (voice) and Charles Burkhart (piano) performed Franz Schubert’s 1827 work Winterreise, a set—or “cycle”—of 24 songs set to the same number of poems by German poet Wilhelm Mueller. Schubert loved Mueller’s poetry enough that Schubert was quoted as wishing that he had written it himself. Setting them to music must have been the next best thing. Winterreise’s (A Winter Journey) lyrics relate the tale of a rejected lover who travels on foot through the frigid countryside, distancing himself from the town of his beloved. Many parallels between the weather and the young man’s state of mind are implied. Schubert was also mired in a similarly gloomy state at the time of the composition, as he was suffering from a terminal illness.

Hallmark performed the entire cycle from memory, with only a mild break after the first 12 songs. He also sang the piece in the original German, which may have explained the vacancy of the first three rows of the hall. The rest of the seats were moderately filled. Burkhart performed the accompaniment on Davidson’s own Bosendorfer piano (“Bosendorfer,” I believe, is German for “big mother”). Hallmark gave a splendid performance, passionately embodying the speaker of the poems and his angst. The vocalist’s vibrato was well-tempered, rich enough to give off that professional sound, but not so wide that one could not discern which pitches he was singing. The performance must have been special for Hallmark, who gave his senior voice recital on the same stage 32 years ago. Both musicians are on faculty at Queens College (N.Y.), Hallmark since 1981 and Burkhart since 1962. The latter has written many publications on musical analysis. Most audience members were thrilled by the 80-minute work, although the concert experience was significantly enhanced by the aesthetically-pleasing program cover and free food at the reception afterwards.

Yo La Tengo, comprised of Georgia Hubley, Ira Kaplan, and James McNew, played Saturday night at Tremont Music Hall in Charlotte. The band portrays inclusivity and contentment in its lyrics. On their most recent album, they give their own impression of themselves in a song called “We’re an American Band,” when they say, “Monday matinee in pull—we are life’s throb—so hard to choose between conceit and rock.” Yo La Tengo is not the angst-ridden band we are so used to, nor are they pretentious rock stars who can only drink Evian water. Instead, they portray a simple, human inclusivity and contentment in their music which is reflected in their lyrics:

And if you care to stay in our little corner of the world
We could hide away in our little corner of the world
We always knew that we’d find someone like you
So welcome to our little corner of the world.
—“My Little Corner of the World”

Mark Jenkins, a music critic for the Washington Post, described their sound as traveling “from delicate to vehement to funny” and “amiable and engaging.” They have also received credits for the song “Demons” featured in the film I Shot Andy Warhol, and they are responsible for doing covers ranging from the Velvet’s “I’m Set Free” to an instrumental version of a Ramones classic “Blitzkrieg Bop.”