DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, MARCH 24, 1997 15

Sawyer and Mall shine for women’s track

Duo highlights impressive day

By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

Two athletes placed for the women’s track team at Wake Forest this weekend, highlighting a meet where personal and school
records fell in the wake of strong Wildcat performances.

“This was a pretty good meet, and it was a great facility,” Katie Lannon said. “People were performing pretty well.”

Danielle Mall (fourth in the discus) and Jamilah Sawyer (sixth in the 100 m hurdles) were the two Wildcats to
place in the 30 school meet.

“It was a good meet,” captain Lara Burkholder said. “A lot of personal bests were set, and it was exciting
to see Jamilah and Danielle place at such a big meet.”

Burkholder, Schaap Freeman, Beth Goldstein, and Sawyer shattered the school record in the 4x400 relay, sprinting in with a time
of 4:12. Kate Feldmeier ran a college personal best in the 1500 (4:59). Jenny Klotz knocked more than 30 seconds
off her personal best in the 5000 (20:21), while Lannon lowered her best mark by over 20 seconds in the
5000 (20:18). Allie Curran led the Wildcats in that race with a personal best 18:31, and Beth Brewster set a
personal record in the 3000 (12:08).

“It was a pretty good meet,” Klotz said. “We were pretty competitive with lots of people running pr’s (personal records).

“Next weekend (at Emory), we’re looking to be competitive and score a lot of points because we know the schools
are going to be smaller.”

In the Emory meet this coming weekend in Atlanta, Davidson will get a break from competing with the near world-class
athletes that fill their schedule, and race against squads that are much closer to their ability level.

“It’s a meet where we can score some points team-wise. We can feel success as far as competing and placing
as opposed to just trying to better our times, which is what we have to do sometimes,” Burkholder said. “It’s
exciting to say you’re going to place or you’re going to win instead of just doing your best.

“We need to work on confidence with some of the younger people, helping them not get intimidated and really concentrate
on what they’re doing. If we show up mentally then the physical should be there and we can just perform.”

Road Win from page 13

Fleck explained. “We’re so close off the field that we had a lack of intensity in practice because it’s hard
to play against your friends. But after Spring Break we made an agreement to treat each other differently on the
field than off.”

Still, they dropped their third straight home contest to Cornell (18-8) on Mar. 17.

“Against Cornell, the score sounds worse than the game,” Schwartz said. “We outshot them, and watching the tape my assistant
(Bryn Chave) and I counted eleven shots that were right at the goalkeeper’s stick. Those should have been goals, and
that was the difference in the game.

“I’ve been optimistic all season. We have six seniors, a good group of freshmen, and we’re on a different level
from last year (where the team narrowly missed finishing with a .500 record).”

COME AND REVEL IN THE HEAT.
Write sports. Call Mike (x6231) or Will (x6126)

Or

TUESDAY - April at BAKER SPOR

Representatives from Class of J9

For more information

Let this be your STESS R (Meet in (Class of 2001

Join in the fun ......b

Men’s track gears up for Emory meet, Conference Championships

By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

The men’s track team fought off illness and injuries to turn in some impressive performances this Friday and Saturday at
Wake Forest. Key performers Addam Marcotte (sick), Karim Lawrence (stomach problems on Friday), Roland Williams (injury), Steve Hsieh (injury), and
Eugene Jung (shoulder injury) were unable to compete in part, if not all, of the meet.

“It went pretty well,” head coach Gary Andrew said. “When we get a few more injured guys back, we’ll be
stronger,but hopefully we’re right on track to close out the season strong. “I’m encouraged by the distance guys in particular.
This is the best weekend we’ve had performance-wise.” Ken Howard agreed with his coach, citing impressive individual performances among the
distance specialists. “Keith Gordon had a really good time in the 1500 (4:07.8). The other 800 guys ran really well
(Davey Bacon - 2:01.8 and David Slenzak - 2:02.7, both personal records), Dave Foss had a good 5000 (16:20). William
Isenhour ran well in the 3000 (4:14.7). And the 4x400 team (Dan Dearing, Bacon, Lawrence, and Stan Baker) did really
well (3:34.3), especially with all the injuries,” Howard said. Andrew mentioned that Gordon’s time put him on the all-time top
ten performance list in the 1500, and moved him a few seconds closer to the times he ran as a
senior in high school. Andrew was also enthused by the 4x400 relay, which ran the fastest time of this season
without two of its normal runners (Williams and Howard). “It’s pretty neat that they got the best time,” Andrew said.
“That was kind of a throw-together relay. They had never really practiced and I didn’t know what to expect.”

Other highlights that Andrew mentioned were Howard’s personal record in the 800 (2:00.8), and Stan Baker’s personal record in the
400 hurdles (61.6). “I felt like I ran really well,” Howard said. “I just had a really good race. It
was pretty windy out, but I won my heat so there really wasn’t anyone pushing me. I’m just improving gradually.
I hope to break two minutes, hopefully by next weekend (at Emory), and I want to qualify for finals at
conference, which will probably take between a 1:57 and a 1:56.”

The Emory meet this weekend will provide an interesting new challenge for the Wildcats. Instead of competing against near world-class
athletes that often overpower Davidson, the team will be facing a lineup of 20-30 smaller schools with whom the Wildcats
are more on par. “This is one meet in which we know we can be more competitive,” Andrew said. “I’m
feeling really good about the guys right now, and if we can get a few more hurt guys up and
running it will help this weekend.”

Exciting spring ahead for women’s tennis
By Kerry Brophy
Staff Writer

The women’s team is busy gearing up for the Southern Conference tournament to be held April in Greenville, S.C. The
Wildcats scored a decisive victory against UNC Charlotte on Tuesday. Dana Casner, playing number one singles, defeated Wendy Stephenson, 6-1,
6-0. Claire Cheatwood beat Lisa Craft, 6-4, 6-1, and the Wildcats closed out the event 5-0. On Thursday, the team
defeated Winthrop at home. Ashley Manor, at third singles, held on to defeat Julian Marques, 4-6, 6-3, 6-1. Lynne Shore
also defeated Christine Lofton, 6-1, 6-0. Ashley Manor and Creecy Chandler proved to be a powerful doubles combination, beating the
Winthrop team of Lofton/Brookshire, 8-1. The Wildcats won handily in the team score, 6-1. “We want to gain momentum for
the upcoming Southern Conference,” assistant coach Barbara Grooms said. “This accounts for our full schedule of conference matches.”

Kruse Pursues on Franklin St.
Carolina tops Kansas-killer Arizona in the first semi. And the relative Wildcats of Kentucky are still too good for Minnesota,
setting up a national championship game chock full of hoops tradition. The streaking Tar Heels then make it 18 straight,
denying U of K a second straight title. Much merriment.

DSS Final Four prognostications: the so-called experts chime in
In a tournament brimming with red-headed stepchild Cinderellas, picking Kentucky and Carolina now wouldn’t be in the proper spirit. So,
with an eye to Providence this Swami says... Arizona tops the Heels, and Minnesota climbs over the ‘Cats in the
semis. In the final, nobody’s number one Minnesota claims its first ever national title.

Will
Think you hear from Kruse too much? Write for sports.
