“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”
ESTABLISHED 1914

Orientation introduces freshmen into a community of service. NEWS 4
Hobbie urges students to band together to bring down Arm of Doom. OPINIONS 7
Gran Torino does Richardson Field. A&L 9
Volleyball takes two of three at home tournament. SPORTS 14.

The creation of coed dorms is the culmination of an 18-month undertaking in response to recommendations made at the Student
Leadership Retreat in May 1995. Students believed then that coed dorms would be an effective formal step toward improving gender
relations on campus. A year and a half is the time it has taken integration to become numerically feasible. Kurt
Holmes says the Residence Life Office has “moved fairly quickly” in response to student suggestion, despite setbacks generated by over-enrollment.
But the move to offer coed residence “was completely independent of the need to place many of our incoming freshmen,
who were accommodated through summer renovations,” Holmes added. See Cover Story on page 4.

Davidson ranked eighth
School tabbed top 10 by U.S. News & World Report
By Naresh Nagella
News Editor

Davidson can now officially — and again — be called a top 10 liberal arts school. The college jumped three
spots from last year’s ranking to No. 8 among national liberal arts colleges in the latest issue of the U.S.
News & World Report. The school was also tabbed eighth for the 1994-95 school year. The change in ranking does
not reflect a major jump by Davidson in any of the categories the magazine uses, but actually represents a change
in scoring technique where the percentage score a college receives is rounded to the nearest whole number. This switch created
a six-school logjam in the eighth slot, as Davidson tied with Bowdoin, Bryn Mawr, Claremont McKenna, Middlebury, and Washington &
Lee. The magazine placed Swarthmore atop its rankings, with Amherst, Wellesley, Williams, and Pomona rounding out the top five. Haverford
and Carleton were sixth and seventh.

“Overall, the score did not really change,” Institutional Research Director John Kelton said. “Now we are tied with six schools
for eighth place. Average that and we are ninth. It is not a big jump really. The overall score last
year was a 90.2. This year we have a 91.” The biggest change, he said, is in the alumni giving
category. Davidson fares better under the new scoring system, which now only counts the percentage of alumni who graduate and
donate money instead of counting anyone who went to school at Davidson. Davidson scores favorably in most categories, except for
faculty resources in which it only ranks 28th. A higher ranking here could easily make it vault into the top
five national liberal arts schools.at ten and a half. That is not too far away from last year’s rank. Director
of Institute would move even further up the charts “if U.S. News would count tutorials and independent studies in their
list.” Davidson would, in turn, receive a better score in the class size category, which contributes to the faculty resources
score. The school experienced a surge of applications the last time it was ranked eighth — the school’s highest ranking
ever. Kelton hopes that high school students do not base their college decision primarily on the U.S. News list.

“People should not make a big deal out of small differences,” he said. “We have not been doing too much
differently these last couple of years and our rank has changed quite a bit.”

By NARESH NAGELLA
News Editor

After years of helping students make the right job choices, Director of Career Services Carol Jordan has made a career
change of her own. Last Thursday, she left the department to become Executive Director of Internships and Career Programs at
Queens College. Her decision was made two weeks ago and follows the departure of Bill Felty, an Assistant Director in
the department. The changes leave in the department only one Assistant Director at Career Services, Tony Butchello, who specializes in
graduate school and pre-professional programs. Butchello says the school is trying its hardest to make sure student needs are met.

“We definitely will keep providing services,” he said this week. “Our first goal is to meet the needs of the
students. Seniors are our priority. The Counseling Center and the Dean of Students office is helping as well.”

While it does seem a little strange that Jordan left in the beginning of the year instead of during the
summer, Dean of Students Tom Shandley stated, “It is not good for Carol Davidson, but she had no control over
that. It has to do with Queens, not her.” Shandley is busy trying to find a replacement and maintain services
at the office.

“We have hired career counselors in a private practice in Charlotte to help with resumes, career advice, interview preparation, and
the guidance our students need,” he added. Shandley has set no firm timeline to find a replacement.

“Carol has done a good job at the department for the last 12 years and has maintained a high level
of professionalism and student satisfaction,” he said. “I want to make sure we continue that. [The search for a new
director] could take three months or it could take a year.”

SGA NOTES .......... 2
ELSEWHERE .......... 5
EDITORIAL .......... 6
SPORTS .......... 7
ARTS & LIVING .......... 9
SPORTS .......... 16

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1 - Davidson, NC 28036
