- 8 _ THE DAVIDSONIAN Op-ED | @ MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1997

The evils of choosing the crown over the cross

If it wasn’t already, the verdict is now official: The world’s priorities are seriously skewed. Last week, the world lost one of the most amazing people it has ever been lucky enough to know. She dedicated her life to helping those in our society who could not help themselves. She gave openly while asking nothing in return. She gave the most precious gift of all—love. And to the people who needed it most. But the death of Mother Teresa was not the lead story in the news—it ran second to the death of another amazing individual, Princess Diana.

Diana was everything that Mother Teresa was not. She was beautiful, a worldwide symbol of elegance and grace, rather than old, small, hunched-backed, and frail. Di lived among riches and royalty, instead of rags and poverty. She had money and glamour, whereas Mother Teresa owned a wooden bowl, two wooden spoons, two pairs of eyeglasses, and nothing else. When the media had to decide which story to place first, they chose a pretty face over a ragged one, money over poverty, and the crown over the cross.

But the media can’t be blamed entirely for their decision. Newspapers are a business, and being a business, they print articles that will sell. Sadly then, the blame lies closer to home. Our society—as well as most cultures around the world—places an extremely high emphasis on monetary wealth, idealized looks, and power.

As children, we are raised on fairy tales like Cinderella, stories that indirectly—and, in many cases, directly—emphasize the beauty, happiness, and elegance of a princess. As teenagers, we watch movies that once again glorify wealth, idealized physical appearances, and power. The characteristics that our society stresses and deems important, unfortunately, lie closer to Princess Diana than Mother Teresa.

This is not to imply that Princess Diana is a horrible person. Far from that—Diana lived an amazing life, one worthy of much respect and admiration. Her activism against land mines and her concern for the poor and those with AIDS has been well documented. But it would be a folly for anyone to claim that Diana’s life was as wholly admirable as Mother Teresa’s.

While the media’s portrayal of these unfortunate deaths was bothersome, perhaps some good will indeed come out of it. Perhaps the coverage will strike others as off-base at the very least and even tragic. Perhaps it will cause people to re-evaluate their own priorities in life and take a serious look at their own actions and activities. And maybe—hopefully—some will recognize that they could be a little more concerned for the underprivileged and that they should value sacrifice more than glitz and wealth.

There is no such thing as sophomore slump

I was wandering home last Thursday afternoon, enjoying the sunshine, mild weather, friendly faces, and manicured lawns of Davidson when a curious phrase caught my attention. “There’s nothing left to do at Davidson until you go abroad. It’s called the sophomore slump. I heard that Davidson men only want the fresh meat. That’s why the sophomores hate us.”

My mother taught me not to stare, but in this case, I had to make an exception. I stood and gawked at the heinous misconception. As I stood there in disbelief, several thoughts occurred to me. Freshmen: it only gets better from here.

Was I not having as much fun as I thought? Was the security I feel this year just a figment of my admittedly wild imagination? Should I sprint after these girls and spell out S-O-P-H-O-M-O-R-E for them in body language? By the time I had settled on simply wrestling the taller one to the ground and beating the ignorance out of her with my bare fists, the two friends had disappeared into Belk.

I continued to my room and thought more about the ignorant companions. I remembered myself at this point last year—your average frightened and thoroughly intimidated freshwoman. All I wanted was for my dad to come and take me back home. I longed to replace the horrible feeling that I could never measure up to Davidson’s standards with security and confidence. Essentially, I felt nauseous for the first three weeks of my Davidson career.

The main difference I have felt this year is that I now have that security and confidence. I’m a sophomore, and I’m having a great time. I’m old enough to be situated with a group of friends that I adore, and still young enough not to be paranoid about getting a job after I graduate. I love being around my friends, and I am cherishing every day that I get to be a sophomore before my class heads out for se-

The major importance of a minor

New SGA Committee to investigateAn increase in the number of currently-offered minors

The Student Government Association passed a resolution last week establishing an adjunct committee to the Council on Academic Affairs. This committee is now in the process of investigating a potential increase in the number of departments that offer minors. Last year, minors were passed in eight departments: anthropology, chemistry, economics, French, music, philosophy, Spanish, and theater/speech.

Here’s how the academic specializations at Davidson break down: a major in a subject requires ten courses in that subject, with requirements laid out by the respective department. One can also create an interdisciplinary study (major) through the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies. A concentration is a complement to the major. There are eight established concentrations: applied mathematics, Asian studies, ethnic studies, gender studies, international studies, medical humanities, neuroscience, and Southern studies.

According to the academic program of Davidson, a minor is defined as “a set of five or six courses designated by a participating department, including at least one course at the 300-level or higher.” The main argument against minors is that they detract from the academic purpose of Davidson College. Davidson is a liberal-arts college, and we as students are supposed to experience a broad-based education. People opposed to minors fear that Davidson students will concentrate too much on one or two subjects of study and graduate without exposure to many academic fields, thus defeating the primary aim of a liberal education.

I think that we ought to have the right to choose. And we actually do, just not in all fields of study. It is incongruent that some departments offer minors while others do not. A minor is tangible recognition that a person has developed a pretty good sense of a particular subject at the undergraduate level. I do not feel that the possibility of minors in the other twelve departments will take away from the liberal-arts experience. Students will still take classes that just plain sound interesting, and they should also have the opportunity to develop a minor in any field that offers majors.

I hope that this committee can work out the offering of minors from the other departments at this school, because it’s a choice we ought to have.

Minds of the class of 2001.

Semesters abroad. Sure I’m not in the category of “fresh meat” anymore, but I know that somehow I will overcome this loss. So close your ears to any such tainted information. So freshwomen, enjoy your first year, give those older guys whatever they want if that’s what you think will make you happy. But whatever you do: be safe, be happy, be careful, and see what wonderful things open up to you. Don’t see older women as enemies or foreboding presences, because if you do, I will laugh and point my finger at you in public. Remember that every year you spend at Davidson will be special in its own way. To my fellow sophomores, let us be the strong role models that the class of 1999 was for us.

Quelling myths about the Court

I am writing to clear up a misconception that has been floating around. Many students are under the impression that Patterson Court cannot be discussed with first-year students. I was under this impression and therefore refrained from voicing my opinion on the Court scene to the delicate minds of the class of 2001. This impression is false. We are allowed to talk about our Court experiences as long as we don’t “bash” the houses. There is no possible policy that can prevent generalizations from being made about something intrinsic to the Davidson experience. If everyone was banned from speaking about the houses, then the conscientious people — those who could probably offer the most objective opinions — would abide by the rules, and those who are prone to bashing would be the ones discussing the houses.

A call to students to discuss matters of the Court.

Counselors are just that, not allowed to use their coveted positions as rushing tools. But it is important to talk about the Court with freshmen. They need to know our experiences with Davidson’s seemingly pervasive determinant of social life. One can express positive and negative opinions about the Court and even about certain houses without “bashing” them. This might require self-control, which some may lack; in that case, self-restraint from discussing the Court is appropriate. Residence Life would like the Court to be presented in a positive light: I would rather have upperclassmen be honest with their experiences. Believe it or not, there are other social options on campus. I am sure that stereotypes about the houses will be just as prevalent as they were my freshman year.

I don’t have enough faith in Davidson students. However, if this unnatural silence was the rule, then maybe a little civil disobedience would be called for in response to a policy that is a flagrant violation of free speech. Stereotypes are often harmful but sometimes quite true. Frankly, I don’t want anyone in my house who is not brave enough to investigate stereotypes in an effort to find out if they are true or false. The Court is a relevant and important topic for discussion. The Court is not a secret we don’t want our parents to find out about. Well, not usually.