8 THE DAVIDPHONIAN

Just after finishing his latest shit, the Unacrapper drops nuggets of wisdom on the Davidphonian’s backpage...

T.P. Charmin: Hi, Unacrapper. What’s up?

Unacrapper: Whoever has my Japanese red maple tree had better give it back. I’m trying to be as polite as I can be. Just leave it on the rugby field and there will be no questions asked. If it’s not returned, I’m gonna find out who you are and hunt you down. Ronald Reagan once told terrorists, “you can run but you can’t hide.” Well, that applies here.

TPC: Right. So it’s an artist in angst thing.

U: One mad son of a bitch.

TPC: Why express yourself excrementally?

U: It’s free.

TPC: Ah. So, are you facing some financial difficulties?

U: Is that really any of your damn business? The next thing you know you’re going to be asking me about my mother. I love my mother. I mean, who doesn’t? Is there something wrong with you or something? You’re implying that I don’t love my mother, and I just don’t think that’s true. I love my mother just plenty, and she loves me too. I’m her favorite person, except for Santa Claus. She told me so, okay? Can we just end this interview? You’re hurting my feelings now.

TPC: Excuse me. I didn’t mean for things to get too Freudian here. I mean, we’re talking shit, not mothers, right? Right. Now tell the interested readers what kind of foods you have to consume to produce such massive quantities of shit. I mean, you shit a lot.

U: Well, it’s not the kind of food as much as the amount of food. When I decided to become the Unacrapper, I walked around barefoot until I got a tapeworm. That way, I could eat all I wanted without having to worry about all those goddamn calories. I don’t have to count fat grams either. Anyway, I love me that Commons food, let me tell you. Especially Shepherd’s Pie and Student Steaks. You wanna know a trick? You eat with a bunch of chicks, and they’ll give you their tickets, and that way, you can eat like eight steaks, instead of just one. If you take X-Lax before your meal, you can shit throughout the entire thing and just keep the extra in a ziplock bag for later. Not that I mean to endorse Ziplock or anything. I mean, the generic brand of zipper bags is just as good as the commercial brand as far as storing shit goes.

TPC: vomit.

U: That’s a damn shame. It’s never been my desire or plan to make anyone want to vomit. What I want is to make you want to shit. You make me want to—

TPC: Well, you just make me want to vomit. Maybe I'll start a new art form. Anyway. I was wondering if you had to stay away from any foods that might identify you. You know, like corn. Or that tasty purple drink they always mix at fun Court parties. You know how it makes your shit green?

U: Do I know how it makes me shit green? Friend, let me tell you, I know my shit. I can tell you what every item at the grocery store does to my shit, and I enjoy all the different shades and variations. Do I eat corn? Sometimes, especially if I’m trying to make a statement about agriculture. It fucking sucks how farmers get treated in this country. They get no respect whatsoever. Here they go, growing the stuff that makes our shit beautiful and varied in texture, color, and odor, and we have to go and treat them like second-rate citizens. It makes me sick. I bet you mistreat farmers, don’t you, you goddamn snotty, rich, Davidson-loving bastard, don’t you?

TPC: My mother’s a farmer. Are you saying I don’t love my mother? I love my mother, you cock-sucking son of a—Bitch. Everyone tries to act like I don’t love my mother, but I do, God damn it, and she loves me. She tells me so every day. She tells me so several times a day. Don’t you go talking about my mother.

U: Your mother loves you?

BACK PAGE INTERVIEW - According to “Foul Play: Serial defecator messes with campus” by Teresa White in the September 3, 1996 issue of the highly respectable publication, The Davidsonian, the criminal known by residents and police as the Unacrapper began his shitting in Love Auditorium and then later in the first-floor men’s bathroom in Chambers, where workers found feces smeared and thrown on the walls and ceiling. Later more excrement was found in several places in the senior apartments, including floors, desk drawers, sofas, and beds. Since the summer, the Unacrapper has been on sabbatical, spreading his crap elsewhere and surprising others with his creative and gut-wrenching work. The Davidsonian sent special investigator T. P. Charmin to pick up the latest scoop from Davidson’s most feared, revered, and weird student exhibitionist.

TPC: So creativity is what you're all about? I’ve heard that so far you’ve shat in over a half dozen places. What’s your motive? How do you choose? How do you create?

U: Well, I think about my inspirations. I have lots, and one is Dr. Seuss. I like the way your attitude is improving, you slimy son of a bitch.

TPC: Um. Thanks. Who would you say you’re most influenced by?

U: Well, I’ve always had a lot of respect for Herb Jackson, but as far as people who are full of shit go, I'd have to say... Damn, that’s a really tough one. Andy Cole’s a real asshole, but he doesn’t have enough of a personality to inspire me, per se. Polly Griffin and Tom Shandley are pretty vibrant people, now that I think about it.

TPC: Really? I would think by the way you targeted the senior apartments that you had Kurt Holmes in mind.

U: Um... I can’t believe that you figured me out. He’s the apple of my eye, the Picasso to my Bob Ross. Let’s paint some happy shits. Paint some crap here if you want, but if you don’t want to, don’t paint it. It’s your world. Be creative. I would crap in a house, I would crap on a mouse, I would crap in a boat, I would crap on a goat, I would crap on a bed, I would crap on your head, I would smear it on the walls, I would smear it on my balls, I would take a crap in Love, I would love to crap in a glove, I would crap in the mall, I would crap in my residence hall, I would crap on the roof, I would crap on a geometry proof, I would crap a huge stink bomb, I would crap all over your mom. I heard she likes that.

TPC: You heard wrong. Check your sources, motherfucker.

U: I’ve got your source right here, you fucking son of a whore! My source is named Larry, and he’s a green Martian that only I can see. Take that, you cock smoker! Larry, tell me about this fucker’s mom... Larry says your mom [edited for the sake of the weak at heart].

TPC: You say another thing about my mother and I'll beat the living shit out of you, you worthless piece of crap. You think you’re so cool. You think you're artistic. You think that you’re worth a crap. But really you’re just another crazy bastard not worth any more than those damn duct-taped sofas in the VAC. Go use that as an enema, UnaSUCKER.

U: Unasucker? UnaSUCKER? Listen, you rotten rod-slurping fuck, you could suck a golf ball through a cocktail straw. Sure, I’ve sucked my share, but that’s not what I’m about. I’m about crapping. Crapping is important. When I crap, when I purge what’s inside me, I’m expelling all of the dirt and filth within my soul. I’m expunging the pain and decay I feel within myself. I’m trying to show the world the one true way to enlightenment, the way of expulsion and cleansing. Then you have to go and bring up that stuff about me being the UnaSUCKER. That’s in my past. Won’t you let me forget my past? What’s wrong with you people? Don’t you have a heart at all? Don’t you care about the fact that I’m a human fucking being sitting here before you, and whether or not I’ve sucked in the past means nothing compared to what I’m doing now, and that’s crapping. You don’t understand at all, do you? You probably hold in your shit, or if you expel it, it’s probably in private, far away from others. Well, suck this, shit-hider. I’m on a plane of existence and understanding that you can only dream about.