| THE DAVIDSONIAN

Amber Wurmell

The action was intense this week as Davidson hosted the Deep South field hockey tournament.

Cross country teams improve on last year’s conference finish
Women take the sixth spot, while men claim eighth

By Bratron Holmes
Staff Writer

The men’s and women’s cross country teams ended regular season competition Saturday at the Southern Conference Championships in Statesboro, Ga.
Both of the teams fared considerably better than last year, in which both squads finished last in the league. The
men’s team jumped three spots in the rankings since last year, finishing eighth out of 11 teams. As was the
case in every meet this year, the underclassmen carried the Wildcat team, with four sophomores and a freshman taking the
top five places. Brent Ferrell took the No. 1 spot for the Wildcats — something he has done in all
but one race this season — with a time of 26:38. Neil Burt again grabbed the second spot and had
the fourth-best finish of all the freshmen competing in the conference. Sophomores William Isenhour, Thomas McElveen, and Pat Burchett rounded
out the top five for the Wildcats. Coach Gary Andrew stated that he was happy with the team’s effort in
the meet and with the team’s finish compared with last season's result. He also pointed out that several of the
teams that finished in front of Davidson at the meet were dominated by upperclassmen, many of whom will not return
for next season.

The women’s team made an astounding jump in the conference since last season. The team moved up four spots to
claim sixth place out of 10 schools in the Southern Conference. “Everyone ran well. It was a really positive end
to the season,” junior Janet Aardema said. “The only disappointing thing was that we didn’t beat Western (Carolina).” Just two
weeks ago, the Wildcats defeated the Catamounts for the first time in several years. Suzy Burr once again finished first
for the Wildcats.

By Clayton Schloss
Staff Writer

The field hockey team ended its season on a sour note this weekend, dropping both of its games as host
of the Deep South tournament. The Wildcats fell to rival Appalachian St. Saturday in a 4-3 barnburner and lost its
consolation match 3-2 to Catawba Sunday. Against the Mountaineers, the Wildcats dug themselves a hole early and could not climb
out of it. Appalachian jumped out to an early two-goal lead, and it seemed like the Mountaineers were poised to
put the game away by halftime. But the Wildcats fought back. The team hustled to stay with the Mountaineers, and
goalkeeper Sara Gebhardt kept the team in the game by making some clutch saves. Midfielder Kate Schoening got Davidson on
the board by stealing the ball from a defender trying to clear it and drilling a shot from the top
of the circle into the cage. The teams went into halftime with the Mountaineers on top 2-1. Shortly after the
second half started, Appalachian scored on an extremely hard-hit ball. But the Wildcats again countered on a penalty corner opportunity.
After the initial shot off the penalty was deflected, Lisa Holthaus picked up the rebound and centered it to Erin
Smith, who put the ball by the Appalachian goalie. “We came out flat in the first half,” Smith said. “It
took us a while to get into the flow of the game, but once we got it started we played
really well.” The Mountaineers scored late in the second half on a penalty corner to make the score 4-2. Davidson
did not give up, though, as attacker Jennie Gold netted a goal on a penalty corner, enabling the Wildcats to
draw within one. But time ran out on their hopes of advancing to the conference championship.

Davidson played Catawba Sunday, and the squad could not rebound from the emotional loss to Appalachian. Despite thoroughly defeating Catawba
4-1 earlier in the season, this game was a different story for the Wildcats. Jennie Gold and Lisa Holthaus tallied
goals for the Wildcats, but the squad came up just short. “This was a tough weekend for us,” coach Jennifer
Halliday said. “I think we could have beaten App. St. if we had played better in the first 15 minutes.
They were the top team in the tournament, but we were right there in the second half.” Despite the two
losses, there were some bright spots. Three Davidson playerswere named to the all-tournament team — Gold, Smith, and defender Shana
Byers. Erin Smith finished the season with 28 points, giving her 66 for her career. She now stands third on
the all-time points list. Sara Gebhardt concluded her career with 193 saves in goal, good for third on the career
saves list. The Wildcats ended up with a record of 6-13, which is not bad considering the changes the team
went through following last season. This was Halliday’s first season at Davidson, so the squad had to make some adjustments.

“It’s always difficult to adjust to a new coach, but the women played well all year and stepped up to
the challenge,” Halliday said. “They put in the effort and showed a lot of improvement.”

The Wildcats will sorely miss the veteran leadership and consistent performance of Smith, Gebhardt, and Chase Keith. But the team
is very young and will return eight starters next year. “Next season will be a lot of fun,” Halliday predicted.
“I expect great things next fall.”

for the Wildcats. She also finished 12th overall at the meet, missing the all-conference team by only two places. Allie
Curran, Smyth Bitter, Jill Neumayer, and Clare Frey finished second through fifth, respectively. Junior co-captains Kelly Kiefer and Katie Lannon
finished sixth and ninth. Like the men’s team, the women have cause to be optimistic about next season, since only
one senior — Kate Pittenger — will not return to the squad next year.

Volleyball takes two conference wins
By Jay CANTRELL
Sports Editor

The volleyball team pulled out the brooms this weekend. They swept East Tennessee St. and Appalachian St. on the road
Saturday and Sunday, respectively, to improve their record to 12-12 overall and 9-4 in league play.

Freshman Mara Mordini led the team with 14 kills against the Buccaneers. The Wildcats had a strong blocking game as
well, taking the victory 15-10, 15-5, 15-8.

In Sunday’s action, Brooke Bentley hit .435, recording 10 kills on 23 total attempts. The freshman sensation also had 20
digs to spark Davidson to a 15-13, 15-13, 15-9 victory over the Mountaineers. Mordini also had a double-double as she
racked up 10 kills and 11 digs. The Wildcats played each game without starter L.A. Bumgarner, who missed the action
due to injury.

Their next action takes place tonight when the Wildcats host Campbell at 7:00 p.m.

Davidson Sports Information contributed to this report.

NEXT WEEK: ANNUAL BASKETBALL PREVIEW
* Both teams picked by coaches’ polls to win conference
* Interviews from the coaches and players

Really. CALL RANDY SKATTUM (x6667) it’s fun.

Wildcats drop a pair in Saturday’s meet
By Jay CANTRELL
Sports Editor

The Wildcat swimmers raced off the blocks, but gradually sank to the bottom as they dropped both dual meets Saturday.
Virginia Tech defeated the Wildcats 151-102 in the men’s clash and 182-71 in the women’s. William and Mary won 129-107
over the men and 135-93 over the women.

The meet was scored as a double-dual meet, according to swimming and diving coach Rich DeSelm. “Our medley team got
us off to a great start,” he said. That group consisted of Terry Dolch, Kurt Hirsekorn, Scott Harper, and Mike
McCabe. They finished first with a time of 3:33.45. But the rest of the team fell a little short.

“We did as well as we could in the sprints,” said DeSelm. “We really were just a few places and
a few people away.”

“Dave Maddux had an outstanding meet,” he added of the men’s captain who swam well in the 100-, 200-, and
400-meter freestyle relays. Maddux was the men’s athlete of the meet, a new feature DeSelm is using this year. The
female athlete of the meet was Weddel, who had strong showings in the 50- and 100-meter freestyle relays. Suzy Bozzone,
Allison Beebe, Karen Fritchie, and Mary Shell Brosche had outstanding meets for the women’s team, according to DeSelm. “They performed
admirably,” he said. DeSelm was especially impressed with Bozzone’s 200- and 500-freestyle races.

The Wildcats' next meet will be at Richmond this Saturday. The men’s team defeated the Spiders last season, but the
women have never beaten Richmond. “We'll take the disappointment (from Saturday) and try to improve for next week,” DeSelm added.
“It should be very competitive.”

Will Bradshaw
Wildcat swimmers anticipate a strong finish by their teammates in order to win the meet.
