THE DAVIDSONIAN

Seriously Funny

Senior Carhart had them in stitches at the Festival in the Park

By Carrie Morris
Associate Arts and Living Editor

Senior Tamra Carhart tickled funny bones at this year’s Festival in the Park. Festival in the Park, held at Freedom Park in Charlotte, is a 33-year-old tradition. The Charlotte Observer’s preview of the festival mentioned its reason for beginning the festival. The paper wanted to “provide families with positive exposure to the arts, regardless of income,” said Dave Dalton, the president of the event. “We want everyone in Charlotte to be exposed to the arts. The arts should not be exclusive, they should be inclusive.”

Amidst the entertainment were countless tables and colorful tents offering all the festival staples: sand art, pottery, jewelry, paintings, caricatures, art centers for children, and my personal favorite item — the gold star halo with cascades of ribbons hanging down the back. Yes, I did spend three dollars on this creation, and yes, I realize I could have eaten a decent meal for that amount of money, but I was feeling a little nostalgic about my childhood experiences at the Piedmont Arts Festival at home — all you Atlantans know exactly what I am talking about.

The festival included over 200 artists and as many vendors and performers. It was all artsy and jovial, but the real reason that I, as well as many other Davidson students, road-tripped down Interstate-77 was to see one of our more talented Davidson students perform. Tamra Carhart made her North American debut Sunday at the festival, performing her stand-up comedy routine, which originated in London where Tamra spent last semester. At a club called The King’s Head, Carhart tested her act and has brought it back from the Mother Country for our entertainment.

Carhart is a senior Theater major and will be performing periodically throughout the year in preparation for her senior project, which is due in the spring. I would highly recommend her shows to everyone. She’s cool, she’s funny, and her style is unique, as the picture to the right attests. Besides, she’s one of our own. Rumor has it that children actually cry when she ends her show. No, seriously.

ARTS & LIVING
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1997

Carhart’s unique fashion sense complements her comedy routine, which she developed while studying in England last semester.

Vomit

Once upon a Saturday morning dreary, while I stumbled weak and bleary-eyed down my hall, I happened upon something that caught my sleep-encrusted eye. 'Twas a note, scribbled in pen on notebook paper, and taped, 95-Theses-style, to the door of the women’s church of cleaning, primping, and bodily processes.

“TO THE PUKER-” it began, “Please vomit ANYWHERE except on this hall; We would all really appreciate it. IT SMELLS. Thanks.”

Because I was not yet fully awake, the only parts that really registered in my sleep-deprived mind were the bits in CAPITAL LETTERS. Since most people use them to emphasize the most important part of their written communication, I set about trying to decipher the significance of the two phrases. Then, of course, I realized that I probably looked pretty strange standing outside the girls' bathroom, so I took the note back to my room.

Clearly, the first part, which was obviously the most important, because it was both bold and in capital letters, was an address. I immediately suspected that this missive was directed at someone who had donated a sizable portion of their evening meal to the bathroom without fully, err, appreciating it. Since it was posted on the bathroom door, I had to assume that the goose that blew the golden chunks was a hall resident, who would see the note. With that part firmly in mind, I went to work on the other part.

I couldn’t be sure, but I thought I remembered somewhere learning that “IT (I’m going to assume the author meant vomit) SMELLS (Again, I’m going to have to assume the author was implying “bad”).” I thought about it for a while, but never really could pin down where this information came from. Maybe it was in health class, or something. I decided to let that one sit for a while, stewing in its own natural juices as it were, in the hopes that the answer would come to me. By this time, I was about as awake as Iusually get, and so I decided to check into the details of the situation. From what I gleaned from various hall residents, someone had been sick in the women’s bathroom and had not quite deposited it all into the sacrificial porcelain altar. With this knowledge, I went back to my analysis of the note. The pieces started to fall into place as I read the note again. And yet, “Please throw up anywhere but on this hall,” seemed like a rather odd instruction. Almost as if the teetotaling scribe wished that our nauseated friend had barfed on someone else’s hall, or even on some non-hall resident. While I couldn’t rule out the possibility that some kind of rather odd fantasy of the author’s was involved, it seemed more likely that they just didn’t particularly love the smell of puke in the morning. 

Reading further, this idea seemed to be supported by the “IT SMELLS” part (unless, of course, the implied nature of the smell was somehow tied into that whole fantasy thing — i.e., “It doesn’t smell great, but I bet it would smell good on that cute guy at the party!”). All that aside, I had to wonder why they would so emphasize what would be immediately apparent upon inspection of the evidence. The only answer I could come up with was that our una-noter, strolling into the bathroom that morning, had caught a whiff of something unpleasant, eventually spotted the kibbles and bits on the floor, and had an epiphany. “This stuff, it hasn’t got a very pleasant odor... in fact, IT SMELLS!” she must have thought. No doubt she wanted to share this profound newfound knowledge with everyone, especially the person who must have ignorantly decided to leave the mess behind, unaware that it would be the source of a reeking stench. 

Unbeknownst to the author of the pukalist manifesto, however, the vast majority of Davidson students are already aware that the smell of vomit is unpleasant. In an informal poll, every student I asked revealed that they knew of the malodorous properties of upchuck. Shockingly, all of the students also admitted that for one reason or another they had also thrown up at some point in their lives. When further questioned, most students described the experience as “very bad” and went so far as to say it was yet less pleasant than smelling someone else’s molded over thick and chunky retchings. Some students even characterized the act as sometimes “not entirely voluntary.” 

The “Thanks” at the end of the note is really ambiguous. It could be interpreted as “Thanks for enlightening me to the stinky nature of your half-digested innards,” “Thanks for giving me a chance to vent my pent-up frustration over that negative article about my favorite cereal in the whole world,” “Thanks for agreeing to fulfill my darkest inner fantasies,” or even simply “F--- you.” So, after several wasted hours, I came to the conclusion this note, however friendly and informative a work it is, stinks — no pun intended. Wishing the consequences of someone else’s misfortune onto another hall/house/person/animal is fairly sick and selfish in and of itself. Had the author said “Please clean up your own damn mess, you sloppy wench!” I could hardly fault her. Instead, however, she tried to belittle the person, who I’m sure already felt great that morning. This sort of childish behavior seems obscene to me, especially after living in an all-male hall, where puke was regularly deposited in the hall, on the walls, in anybody’s bed, and even on roommates. 

Perhaps, as a sophomore, I should have higher standards than simply making it to the bathroom; then again, once you’ve seen someone cough up blood in bed from alcohol hazing, that of course does not occur at Davidson, it is difficult to really get your briefs all bunched up over someone getting sick in the bathroom. I sincerely hope that, after this past weekend’s festivities, and the inevitable purgings that ensued, there were no more manifestations of the rather crass and callous attitude exhibited in this note. Because, quite frankly, it nauseates me. Everyone has the right to blow chunks; without it, there would be hundreds of cases of alcohol poisoning every year on this campus alone. Keeping all this in mind, gentle reader, I would advise you to yak responsibly. Friends know when to say, “Damn, I should clean up my own messy hurl.”