6 THE DAVIDSONIAN | ELSEWHERE MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1997

Republicans receive Clinton budget as good starting point

Vice President Al Gore called it creating a Government fit for a new century as the administration revealed its plan
to balance the budget by the year 2002. Republican leaders thought the Clinton plan would not balance anything by then
or years beyond. But, despite the partisan differences, it does serve as a starting point. Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott
(R.-Miss.) said, “It’s alive, but it’s definitely not kicking.”

To balance the budget, President Clinton proposed $252.1 billion worth of deficit reduction. But 75.3% of the cuts or $190
billion is scheduled for the last two years, well after he has left office. The budget included tax cuts for
middle-class families, college tuition, and capital gains for housing sales. It would increase spending on education, the environment, and state
programs. It tries to restore some of what he saw were harsh measures of last year’s welfare bill by increasing
some spending there. The administration, along with Congressional Democrats, also wishes to expand health insurance to half of the 10
million American children who do not have it. It is part of the President’s plan to slowly expand healthcare provision
to most uninsured Americans.

Ironically, though, the largest chunk of savings comes from cuts in Medicare and Medicaid. The president hopes to save at
least $122 billion by decreasing payments to hospitals and doctors. Along with $98 million in tax cuts, the President proposes
increasing tax revenues by closing loopholes and cutting some corporate welfare. It should bring another $76 billion to the budget.

The biggest difference between the two parties is the capital gains tax cut. Republicans want the current 29% rate on
all investments to be halved. They believe it would increase investment since many who gained in the stock markets advances
these past couple of years would reinvest in other projects. The President and most of his party are against such
large cuts, however. The President only offers the elimination of the tax on home sales. They say they want their
tax cuts to go to more targeted areas such as education and middle-class families with children.

The President’s proposal of the budget is the first in a long step of actually getting it put into action.
First, the interest groups have not been able to start lobbying to save their favored programs. Second, both parties will
try to claim victory of advancing their causes and agendas in the budget. Finally, the economy must stay strong for
the numbers and cuts to actually work, otherwise tax revenues will drop.

Sources: USA Today, New York Times

Governors still debating welfare reform

Welfare reform was the hot topic at the National Governor’s Association winter meeting. The governors were meeting to discuss how
the nation would cope with the new state power to administer welfare services via block grants from the government among
other issues. Several Republican governors supported restoration of aid to legal immigrants, a provision that used to be available but
was cut out of the welfare reform bill as a politically viable way to make savings. The request caused some
Republican Congressional leaders to question why members of their own party now wanted to renege on a crucial provision and
savings measure needed to balance the budget. Many commentators believe that now that states actually have to go through with
administering services, governors will have more problems than expected.

An upcoming conflict over the percentage contributions the state and federal government over Medicaid payments was also signaled at the
conference. The governors’ voices indicate that possible disputes such as these will continue in other areas, especially in ratifying a
balanced budget amendment to the Constitution.

Source: Slate

THE FIRST LADY MRS. BOB DOLE

“THE AMERICAN CONSUMER SUDDENLY CONFRONTS CLINTON'S FOREIGN POLICY DILEMMA A REPUBLICAN FAMILY VALUES”PRODUCTION

The FIRST WIVES

One person died and at least 100 others were injured as mixed-race rioters caused unrest since they believed they had
been denied much participation in the new South Africa after Apartheid. Protestors said they were not black or white enough
to enjoy the benefits of the new government. Mixed-race people are usually caught between the black and whites in the
country. They were given a largely symbolic and ineffective chamber of parliament during apartheid. Meanwhile, their limited power spurned hatred
from blacks for “selling out to white interests.”

North Korea agrees to take nuclear waste from Taiwan

North Korea will accept nuclear waste from Taiwan in exchange for much-needed hard currency. South Korea was outraged, though, over
safety risks and because it wants to avoid liability for the waste in the event of North Korea’s possible collapse.
South Korea insists the North Koreans do not have the proper installations and housing materials to store the waste.

National

Student proves that S.A.T. misgraded a question

Colin Rizzo, a 17-year-old from Peterborough, New Hampshire, was taking his S.A.T. test when he thought one question was strangely
phrased. He thought it could have been interpreted in different ways and that the Educational Testing Service that administers the
test might have had the wrong test, so he e-mailed them concerning his observation. The result was the first time
since 1982 that the S.A.T. has acknowledged a mistake in their test grading and will lead to a score increase
of 30 points for about 13% of the test takers who answered the right math question on the test.

O.J. found guilty

The jury in the civil trial of O.J. Simpson found him guilty of the murders of Nicole Brown Simpson and
Ron Goldman. He will have to pay some $8.5 million dollars to make up for the emotional losses being suffered
by the families of the victims. The Simpson team has announced an appeal of the decision.

Local

Conflict arises over how to finance proposed arena

The Charlotte Hornets want a new arena and are asking the city of Charlotte to help finance the $192 million
cost. But, some city council members are opposed to raising property taxes or giving tax breaks for public financing of
the arena.

Sources: New York Times, Charlotte Observer

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Season
5 Stage play
10 Orem's state
14 Crop of a bird
15 Certain fisher
16 All's opposite
17 Gunner's need
18 Grayish tan
19 Diminish
20 Coloring matter
22 Tolerated
24 Feed for horses
25 Graceful bird
26 Baffles
29 Norm
33 Apple remnants
34 Remain
35 Promise
36 Spheres
37 Burns superficially
38 Notoriety
39 Neighbor of Can.
40 Cafe au —
41 City in Switzerland
42 Make more moderate
45 Firearm
47 Young horse
48 Skedaddies
50 Relax
52 Prohibit
53 Commence
56 Bone: pref.
58 "Woe —!"
59 Notched
60 Irregularity
61 Edge of roof

DOWN
1 Large number
2 Large body of people
3 Silvery fabric
4 Pairs
5 First item
6 Appearances
7 Arabic letter
8 Young ass
9 Oban
10 Relax
11 Division
12 Creature
13 No
21 Commence
23 Prohibit
26 Girl or talent
27 Human trunk
30 Stop!, at sea
31 Famed lover
32 Keeping warm
37 Secluded
38 Burger and fries, e.g.
41 Invoice
43 Schoolroom
44 Water barrier
47 Bring about
48 Error
49 Instance
52 Ait
53 Laurel
54 Bulk
57 Coach

© 1996 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All rights reserved.
