f3 xv — SPORTS

Cantrell’s response: This is Division I. Phil Julien took one sentence from my commentary and ran with it. Coach Filar
claimed my staff and I don’t attend athletic events. One person sent me an email from an unlisted server so
that I couldn’t reply. And a freshman thinks that sports here are supposed to “teach student-athletes teamwork and leadership.”

I applaud the five of you who put your name to your opinion. You stood up for yourself, your teams,
and your friends. But I don’t agree with most of what you said. First of all, being a Division I
school inherently implies that winning is important. If our sports teams play solely to teach teamwork and leadership, then we
should be Division III.

Second of all, with all due respect to Filar, he seems to have quite a short-term memory. Surely he hasn’t
forgotten the presence of Michael Kruse and Aaron Dunham on press row in Chattanooga, Tenn., last February. They took the
six-hour trip—that’s six hours there and six hours back—so they could watch Filar’s team and write a “first-hand account” of
Carolyn Kirsch breaking the all-time scoring record.

Admittedly, our writers cannot cover every game. But we more than make up for it with our road trips. When
an article begins with the name of a city in capital letters, that means the writer was there. That’s called
a dateline. For this year we have datelines from Greensboro (twice), Columbia, S.C., and Emory, Va. In addition, over the
last two-plus years, the DSS has had a representative cover a Wildcat athletic event in every Southern Conference city but
Cullowhee, and the following non-league outposts: Danville, Ky., Maryville, Tenn., Sewanee, Tenn., Hampden-Sydney, Va., Fayetteville, N.C., Durham, N.C., Raleigh, N.C.,
Amherst, Mass., and Durham, N.H. By next spring, the DSS will have visited Tampa, Fla., Albany, N.Y., and Tucson, Ariz.
And the Davidsonian doesn’t pay for this. We do, out of our own pockets.

Would a person who “seems to lack an appreciation for Davidson athletics” spend this much time and money on the
road when he or she could be studying or, say, “frolicking on the Court?” Also, if we call a coach
or player “an hour before deadline,” it’s because the game was away and the opposing sports information office failed to
fax us anything despite our request. This has happened before and it will happen again. If any coach or player
receives a phone call from the Davidsonian office late on a Sunday night, that means the information we are seeking
is the only information we will have. And if we don’t receive that information, there will be no coverage. Maybe
that’s what athletes here prefer: only getting coverage when they win. But we can’t do that, and we won’t do
that. As Jessica Benoit said, “Losing isn’t ugly. It’s life.” But another part of life is accepting criticism. So lack
of “appreciation” on our part couldn’t be any further from the truth. In fact, we write without a sweet and
fluffy candy-coating—and sometimes downright criticize—precisely because we appreciate Davidson sports, precisely because we care.

Football
Guilford 25, Wildcats 22

Men’s soccer
Wildcats 3, UNC Greensboro 2 (OT)
Central Florida 3, Wildcats 2

Women’s soccer
Georgia 3, Wildcats 0

Field hockey
Wildcats 4, Catawba

Oh, so close. The volleyball team fell 15-13 in a decisive fifth game to lose to league-leading Chattanooga Sunday in
Belk. Story, page 14.

Nail-biter in Greensboro. The football team dropped a squeaker to Guilford, 25-22. Game story, page 15.

Mistakes. Six turnovers led to the Wildcats’ demise against the Quakers. Sidebar, page 15.

Twin killing. Corey and Ryan Crawford made the most of their opportunities Saturday. Football, page 15.

Field hockey falls to Appalachian, again. But the team beat Catawba to earn a split for the week. Story, page
14.

Not so peachy. The women’s soccer team succumbed to a powerful bunch of Georgia Bulldogs Friday in Athens. Story, page
14.

Appalachian St. 3, Wildcats 1

Volleyball
UNC Asheville 3, Wildcats 0
Wildcats 3, Western Carolina 0
Chattanooga 3, Wildcats 2

Cross Country
Women: 2nd at pre-conference meet @ Statesboro, Ga.
Men: 2nd at pre-conference meet @ Statesboro, Ga.

Men’s soccer shocks No. 21 UNCG

Liz Reid & Tim Helfrich battle for the ball against a Central Florida defender in Sunday’s game at Richardson Field.
The Wildcats, who upset UNC Greensboro earlier in the season, fought hard but ultimately fell short.The week fell 3-2. But
the enigmatic squad falls to Central Florida Sunday.

By Daniel Motz
Senior Staff Writer

The men’s soccer team continues to show flashes of brilliance. And inconsistency. The Wildcats, now 3-8, split a pair of
3-2 decisions this week, beating new Southern Conference foe and perennial regional power UNC Greensboro Tuesday on the road, and
losing Sunday at Richardson Field to Central Florida.

Against UNCG, freshman David Buehler scored two goals to help lead the Wildcats. But it was Randy Culbertson’s spectacular game-winning
overtime goal that gave Davidson the 3-2 victory. After the Wildcats earned a free kick just outside the Spartan’s 18-yard
mark, the UNCG defense positioned itself in a routine wall, defending against a direct path to the goal. But Culbertson
wasn’t to be denied — somehow he hooked a shot that found the upper portion of the net.

“In my 18 years of coaching soccer, that was one of the best shots I’ve ever seen,” coach Charlie Slagle
said.

With the win and the victory over Furman last month, Davidson owns victories over the conference’s elite. The Wildcats had
a chance to creep closer to .500 with Sunday’s contest. But the experienced Golden Knights, who defeated UNCG 2-0 on
Saturday, capped a perfect Carolina road trip with the 3-2 victory. Having as many Finnish players as American players, Central
Florida has a distinct international flavor.

“That means that they have lots of experience playing competitive soccer,” Slagle said. “And that is a big factor, especially
against a young team like us.”

Following a recent pattern, the Wildcats dominated play in the latter stages of the game, but could not overcome a
sloppy first half. Heikki Ritvanen, responsible for two of the Golden Knights’ goals, struck first just 15 minutes into the
game, finishing a Rami Vehmas cross. A Jeff Harrell goal midway through the first half evened the contest. Hart Roper
executed an acrobatic cross, allowing Harrell to rip the shot. With Central Florida holding a 2-1 advantage with less than
a minute remaining in the first half, Phil Julien got himself free for a one-on-one opportunity with the goalie. Following
Julien’s initial shot, it appeared that Golden Knight goalkeeper Tuomas Tuomilehto tripped Julien and held him to the turf.

“We would have liked a call there but we didn’t get it,” said Slagle.

Trailing 3-1 with 33 minutes remaining in the game, David Buehler pulled the Wildcats to within a goal with an
amazing loop shot 30 yards from the goal.

“I didn’t really mean to shoot it,” said Buehler, who with the goal became the Wildcats’ leading scorer. “It was
lucky.”

But for the rest of the afternoon, Davidson was unlucky. Despite controlling the ball in the Golden Knight territory for
virtually the last quarter of the game, the Wildcats could not convert on offensive chances.

“We had some great chances,” said Slagle. “But that’s not what lost it for us. We need to start playing
the full 90 minutes consistently. We need to make sure that we don’t give up soft goals like their first
two goals today.”

Davidson continues to face stiff competition, as Duke comes to Richardson Field Wednesday.

“We are playing some of the best teams in the country and that gives us great experience for our conference
schedule,” Slagle said. And with victories already over the conference favorites, teams know that the Wildcats, despite their record, will
be a tough team to beat in league play.

The Wildcats hope to score an upset over the nationally ranked Spartans.

Men’s Soccer vs. Duke
Wednesday * Richardson Field * 7:00 p.m.
The Wildcats look for revenge from last year’s 4-0 drubbing as they host the powerful Blue Devils.
