2__,, THE DAVIDSONIAN

@SGA President - Buster Burk, wearing fashionable, flame-retardant, five-dollar shades from New York City, cooks burgers Tuesday at SGA Day.

Haselden proposes committee on minors
By JENNY HAPCOOP
Staff Writer

Foster Haselden presented a resolution to the SGA Tuesday night, successfully forming an ad-hoc committee to research the possibility of bringing minors to all of the College’s 20 academic departments. Only eight departments currently offer minors to students. Haselden, a sophomore, hopes to make minors an option in the other 12 departments.

Haselden, also involved with the Elections Committee and the Student Advisory Council to the Director of Auxiliary Services, brings much enthusiasm to the ad-hoc committee. He began his project last year after students continually questioned him about the absence of minors within the departments. Even though he is not planning on pursuing a minor himself, Haselden is beginning the research necessary to eventually instate new minors.

In the near future, Haselden will distribute a survey to the student body asking students which minors they think the College should offer. As of now, “minors at Davidson have been ambiguous because some have tried and some have failed,” Haselden said in a recent interview. With the information from the surveys, he will be able to comprise a list of minors to present to the departments. Haselden will also research other comparable colleges and their minors, and present a petition to the committee. Haselden plans to submit the data and the petition to the Council of Academic Affairs and ask them to formally establish the minors.

Davidson College Police Blotter

The Davidson College Presbyterian Church seems an unlikely scene for a crime, and most individuals would feel safe leaving doors unlocked... This sense of security was violated Sept. 21 when a staff member had her purse stolen from an unlocked office. The victim — Campus Safety requests that victim’s names be withheld — had left her purse in the Christian Education Office to attend an invalid chapel service at 8:45 a.m. Upon her return at 4:45 p.m., she found her purse missing. The office had been unlocked all day. The victim’s purse contained glasses, credit cards, her driver’s license, checkbook, and other personal items. The victim’s husband contacted their credit card agencies and froze the accounts, but MasterCard reported the card's use at 10:09 a.m. in Davidson. The victim’s total loss was tabulated at $171. The identity of the purse snatcher is unknown.

Second Night Down claims Connor lamppost

While on foot patrol through Patterson Court early Sept. 21, Sgt. David Harding of the Campus Police discovered the remains of a lamppost in front of Connor House. The post was discovered at 2:50 a.m. with damage to the base and top. And while the light had gone out, the wires remained live and dangerously exposed. Physical Plant engineer Mark Knox was called immediately to the scene to cut off the electricity to the Connor. Although the damage may have occurred at any time during the course of the night, no one is known to have been involved. The damage has been estimated at $300.

Attempted breaking and entering in Users Services parking lot

On Friday, Sept. 5, an unknown person(s) failed in his attempt to pry the screen off of one of the trailer windows at around 7:50 a.m. The vandals only succeeded in damaging the screen. The damage was estimated at $50.

News
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1997

Martin renovations improve research opportunities
By EMILY RICKERS
Staff Writer

The Martin Chemistry building received the second major renovation in its history this summer, a development which is expected to improve opportunities for chemical research at Davidson. The $1.2-million project upgraded lab space for class work and installed individual student-faculty research labs. Renovation was concentrated on the second floor of Martin. Fume hoods were installed in the organic lab to increase ventilation and improve safety conditions for students. A prep room next door provides space for instructors and students to conduct pre-lab work, and an instrument lab will house computerized instruments used to analyze lab results. Faculty labs in the south wing will be used all year by instructors and small teams of students conducting research. The Experimental Techniques course, required of all chemistry majors, will be conducted in the remodeled lab and storage space at the south end of the building. A new fire alarm system was also installed.

Money for the renovation came from the National Science Foundation — which awarded the college a $400,000 “matching funds” grant — as well as donors’ pledges. Felix Carroll, chair of the chemistry department, explained that it was “not just a matter of applying for and getting [the grant]. We had to demonstrate that the money would be used to expand our capacity for teaching and research. It was very competitive.” Part of the grant will be used to purchase a gas chromatograph-mass spectrometer, a highly sensitive instrument which separates unknown chemical compounds or mixtures and enables students to identify them by analyzing the remains. Carroll believes that Davidson’s reputation for this type of hands-on instruction contributed to winning the grant. “The record of our graduates and the number of Ph.D. candidates who go on to work at other institutions around the country certainly helped,” he said. “But the strong tradition of student involvement in research is what sets us apart.”the department agree. Senior chemistry major Andrew Coates says the technological upgrading in the new labs will “show students the modern techniques that are being used and explored in grad schools and upper-level study.” The new equipment will reduce the number of “dry labs” that students conduct, in which they are given hypothetical results of an instrument’s analysis. “Now students can analyze their own data,” Coates said. “It will help put a little more reality into the experience.” Future students “will have a much easier time,” classmate Shannon Forbes predicted. “The better equipment will yield more accurate results, and there are new labs they can do that we didn’t get to do.”

New professor enjoying return to alma mater to teach psychology
By David KANG
Staff Writer

Paul Marciano is sharing his love of psychology with the students of Davidson. Originally from Three Bridges, Marciano graduated from Davidson in 1988. He returns to his alma mater after six years of graduate studies at Yale, where he earned two master’s degrees and a Ph.D. in clinical psychology.

“It was really a goal of mine that I had all along,” Marciano said when asked about returning to Davidson. “I had such a wonderful experience here as a student in my relationships with the faculty and the kind of attention I got from them.”

Although this is his first full-time teaching position, Marciano has extensive experience in the research and practical applications of psychology. Before heading to Yale, Marciano assisted Cole Barton, a Davidson psychology professor, with a study on missing and exploited children. They examined the psychological effects of both stranger and family abduction on children and their families.

While at Yale, Marciano pursued his interest in developmental psychopathology while strengthening his specialization in parenting skills. This field, which involves the disorders of children, led to extensive work with children who were identified as having serious behavioral problems. “I did some of that kind of group parenting work at the Presbyterian church I was in up at Yale,” Marciano said, “so I hope to be able to do that in this community as well. I think it is very hands-on and it really seemed to make a difference.”

Marciano is teaching abnormal psychology and statistics this semester. His one-year position as Barton’s sabbatical replacement has not allowed for many research plans involving students. But Marciano makes the best of it by lending his expertise to seniors who are working on their theses. “I saw what it was like at Yale,” Marciano said, “where the classes were 150 students. That is small compared to a lot of large universities. Not getting to know students’ names or anything about them, that’s just not what my idea of being a professor is about.

“Having the opportunity to teach at a small liberal arts college was a first choice for me. To kind of come home to Davidson where I felt comfortable, where I knew I was going to be able to work with smart, motivated students was just incredibly attractive to me.”

Marciano has found his first few weeks exciting. His first full-time position has brought a great deal of student interaction. Seeing students “come in and have a research idea, or a hypothesis that they’ve generated and thought about” is something he considers wonderful about his job and Davidson. “I also think one of the funnest parts of my job is when a student thinks of a problem in a different way than I have,” Marciano said. “When I learn something from my students, when I ask a question to the class and get back an answer that I haven’t thought of yet. I really enjoy working with the students.”

Town brainstorms development ideas
By Mary LEE
Staff Writer

A two-hour public meeting was held Thursday night at the Town Hall to discuss strategic planning for the development of the Davidson downtown area. Tim Keane, town planner, began the session by stressing the increased congestion and safety problems brought to Davidson by recent growth north of Charlotte. “Davidson needs to establish a plan to control the changes brought by growth,” Keane said. “A plan must be made that will channel growth to improve the economic state of the town, while keeping it friendly to pedestrians and bicyclists.”

With large town maps laid out on four conference tables, Davidson town residents, property owners, business owners, tenants, and other interested persons brainstormed in small groups. Imaginary roads, buildings, and bike paths were drawn by participants to fit their different visions of a future Davidson. The ideas generated included: a town trolley, Sadler Square improvements, roundabouts for city intersections, Town Hall expansion, increased retail on Main Street and Jackson Street, more pedestrian crossings, sidewalks, bicycle paths and racks, additional streets to divert traffic from the congested downtown area, and water fountains.

“The key to positive growth is hitting a variety of markets,” Keane said. “That includes students, faculty and staff, visitors, and locals.” Specifically, “We want to share the town more with students,” said Marjo Williams, a town board member. “The students add vitality to the town. We want to get the students talking about what they want. We thought Ben and Jerry’s was a real coup, but there needs to be more. We want the students to know how important they are to the town.”

Ideas from the Thursday meeting and those contributed by Davidson merchants will be used to create a town center design this week. Keane hopes to have the design completed by Friday.