THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS

It’s that time of year again. Grab your No. 2 pencils, course guides, those silly complicated “tree things,” and get
completely psyched about registering for all those classes you will eventually regret having signed up for. The experience is always
exciting, or at least the Registrar tries to make it so. Hasn’t there been some sort of scheduling foul-up at
that office for like the past 27 semesters? The blame seems to always land on the computer — an easy
scapegoat because it has no feelings — or does it? And then there’s this 892-CATS line thing, which tests the
patience of all human beings. I mean this tedious process is so irritating that I want to just plain strangle
the lady whose voice appears on the recorder. It’s almost as annoying as when you are checking your voice mail
and mistakenly press the wrong key, after which you are rudely disconnected by that Octel lady’s unpleasant, entirely mocking “Goodbye.”

I need to apologize to the Registrar’s office for any offensive comments. This Opinions article is actually an appeal to
them, so I need to offer my condolences before I continue. My problem is this. Every year I get pumped
up about all the cool classes I am going to be taking. I do all the necessary background checks with
my friends. You know, stuff like: are there pop quizzes? Is there a final? Can you eat during lecture? Do
you have to go to class? Questions like that. So from the beginning, I think I have got things worked
out perfectly. I have no 8:30s, the best/easiest professors, and a chance to escape without having a single exam at
the end of the semester. In other words, I am feeling pretty good about my academic future right before I
walk into my classes that first day.

You see, this is where I realize my own stupidity. This is where I kick myself repeatedly for having ever
imagined such an ideal situation. Why, you might ask? Because when you walk in that door there is always, I
repeat always, the chance that they are in that class. Who’s they? I'll tell you who they are all right.
Don’t you worry. All of us have been subjected to this: You'll realize it sooner or later. The truth of
the matter is that there are some people you just can’t stand to see in your class, the class you
intended to be heaven. You know the types I am referring to, but I will nevertheless give you a few
examples of what I am talking about.

“Jeopardy.” This is the over-eager student who thinks class is a freakin’ game show. However, he or she is not
provided with a buzzer, so he or she ends up using their arm instead. Actually, a few more annoying sufferers
tend to ignore any sense of decency and just blurt out the answers to any and all questions. Professors don’t
even like these people. It would be more exciting to read an almanac.

The Stalker. You might not know this person, but they seem to take a liking to you. First, they start
staring at you and making odd faces. When the class circles up for discussion, they suddenly end up closer to
you than the last time. As the semester continues, they will slowly creep around the circle but at the same
time doing it so that you are fully aware of the situation and “the chase.” Their looks eventually become repulsive,
and you spend most class time trying to avoid their disconcerting eyes rather than paying attention or taking notes.

The Marxist. This person definitely does not belong in your class. Usually, but not always, they are political science students
who have nearly completed their major, and they are taking a class which they found somewhat intriguing. These people tend
to be a bit single-minded in their comments. No matter what the subject, they maintain a militant conviction to relate
whatever is being discussed in terms of the Marxist political system or the Marxist economy. I don’t care if you
are talking about Chinese literature or frog legs, these people will somehow compare it to Marx. I hate that.

The Moron. It is somewhat surprising how many of these you might find in your classes. Basically, they are just
dirty idiots. They don’t shower before they come to class. Their hair sticks up. They come to one class a
week. The stench from their neglected teeth is smelled by all. But worst of all, they don’t read a single
thing the whole semester. Nothing. Sometimes they don’t bring a single thing to class. When they are called upon, they
stumble across some terrible answer, and the entire room giggles beneath their breath. You might think this is bad, but
it’s not the end. Eventually, you will have midterms and you happen to see on his crumpled paper that he
got an “A,” when you yourself got a “C.” Nothing will make you angrier. It turns out these people are
really smart and that they pretend to be worthless when they are in fact smarter than you will ever be.

So now I have given a few examples of the people you might encounter the moment you walk into that
classroom. The solution, I tell you, is quite simple. The Registrar should give you a list of all the people
that have signed up for the classes you intend to take. That way you can scroll through the list of
names in order to decide if you want to take the class. Actually, I think it would be best for
the Registrar to give us a full bio on every student in the classes we want to register for. You
know, a file that includes various habits and behaviors, like “continually falls asleep in class and drools” or “has a
tendency to disrupt class once or twice a week by getting up to use the restroom.”

This method, in all its brilliance, will certainly cure any further disappointments. I therefore encourage you to do something. I
don’t know, form an ad-hoc committee and pretend you are really

MONDAY, APRIL 14, 1997important. Whatever it is, make a difference. It doesn’t have to be this way. Not Without My
Daughter. Aladdin. Hostages in Tehran. The Hezbollah. Snake Charmers. Turbans. Scents and Spices. The Arabian Nights. The Dance of the
Seven Veils. Genies and Scimitars. Upon my arrival at Davidson, I found that many of my friends had interesting notions
of where I had come from. Of course, I carried my own baggage. Ferris Bueller. Chips. Miami Vice. COPS. True
Stories of the Highway Patrol. Animal House. Top Gun. A Fistful of Dollars. Dynasty.

Saad Gul Breaking Down Stereotypes

There were other changes that I had not counted on. For instance, in Pakistan, it was easy to pray five
times a day. The call to prayer issued forth from the mosque, and everyone stopped what they were doing to
pray swiftly. Here, with no such reminder, it was hard to judge the time of prayer. And of course, in
Pakistan, everyone could point out the direction of Mecca. Here, I needed to use a special prayer mat that included
a compass to figure it out. And then there was the fast burger. It seemed suspicious. How could a hamburger
plausibly claim to have no ham in it? Was Brian kidding when he warned me against his brownies on the
grounds that they contained raw pork hide? What about Jon and his ice cream (“Garcia’s ham swirl”)?

Perhaps the only genuinely unpleasant part, though, was the view of my religion as violent or bloodthirsty. It was painful
not only because of its negative nature, but because the gun-toting Islam I see in the movies is as distant
to me as it is to Budweiser. Hill Street Blues. Madonna. JFK. Gone with the Wind. Mississippi Burning. Looking back,
it was not the fact that I came with trepidation that strikes me as remarkable. It was the fact that
I came here at all. Like all stereotypes, I found that there is a grain—and just a grain—of truth in
our preconceived notions. For instance, I have indeed seen turbans, snakes, and spices—though never the genies. By the same token,
there were indeed people who drank at Davidson—but generally few got plastered on a regular basis. Coming from a totally
dry country, the adjustment to social events that involved alcohol was jarring but still easier than expected.

During Ramadan, in Islamabad, one had the moral satisfaction of knowing everyone else was in on the deal. Here it
was a lot harder not to eat, drink (or lie about anything at all), while everyone else innocently slurped their
ice-cold, alluring Cokes and stuffed down their softly seductive blueberry bagels in class. Eating, of course, is an interesting exercise.
I had no idea what many of the dishes contained. Could they contain “the flesh of the swine?” If in
doubt, to eat or not to eat? That was the question. Catholics by the actions of the “Provos” in Northern
Ireland. I have attended services in churches—Catholic and Protestant—and appreciated what I saw. I have not had the chance to
visit a synagogue yet but hope to visit with one of my fraternity brothers before graduation, Inshallah—God Willing. Remember—Allah is
the only Arabic word for God and is the same word used by Arab Christians. “Closest to thee thou will
find the Christians, for among them are scholars devoted to learning ...” (Al Quran).

Wes Roach What’s the Problem?

While reading the sports page of The Davidsonian last week, my eyes bulged in disbelief at Mike Kruse’s interpretation of
Marshall Tyler’s performance in the three-game set against Marshall. Kruse described Tyler as a “seldom-used outfielder” that played the role
of the “unlikely hero.” First of all, Kruse completely disrespected Tyler’s talent and hard-earned skills. He portrayed Tyler as some
bum off the street that won the lottery, when in fact Tyler is out there every day practicing and refining
his skills so that when it was his turn to bat, he could provide for the team. I don’t understand
why a school paper isn’t biased toward the home team, why it doesn’t portray our athletes as heroes, or why
it can’t give them the respect that they deserve. Kruse didn’t have to word the article so Tyler looked like
a scrub. Heck, he didn’t even have to mention his previous playing time, especially if it was belittling. I’m surprised
Kruse didn’t list all the guys that didn’t play or everybody that struck out. Why couldn’t he just say, “sophomore
Marshall Tyler hit a 2-run homer and also singled to drive in the winning run against Marshall.” He wouldn’t even
have to mention Tyler’s obvious strength for ripping the ball into deep center, his cool nerves that allowed him to
provide for his team and his school in the clutch, or Tyler’s chance at being the starting keeper next year
for the soccer team.

Kruse, it’s your duty not only to inform the public but to positively portray your school and its athletes, who
endure Davidson’s rigorous academic challenges and spend three or more hours every day practicing their sport. Why not give them
the respect and honor that they deserve? I asked Tyler about his feelings toward the article, and he modestly replied,
“It was just nice to get my name mentioned.” I think he deserved a full-page article or at least an
interview on his outstanding performance with the whole school, and everything it represents, riding on his back. But instead, we
get the uncaring and unschool-spirited description of his performance that could probably be found in The Charlotte Observer. I would
like to remind Kruse that he actually goes to the same school as Marshall Tyler. That’s right, he’s the guy
you hope might glance at you when he passes by in the hall because he’s cooler than you could ever
dream of being. He hit a home run not in some backyard pickup game but in a college baseball game.
He also came through in the clutch and drove in the winning run in a game you could only watch.
