THE DAVIDSONIAN

By THE “OTHERS” Visiting Junior Astrologists

Pisces (February 19-March 20): Check your nets, fisher of men. What have you caught? Amidst the flotsam and jetsam that
is your life are true gems, like Chicken of the Sea. Lucky fishing spot: Sea of Galilee. Unlucky mammal: dolphin.

Aries (March 21-April 19): Pause this week to consider Jacobs you have loved. Remember Jacob (of Esau fame), John Jacob
Jingleheimer Schmidt, Irene Jacob, Jacob Lake in Arizona, Temple Beth Jacob, and Hans Jacob Hagey, who arrived in Philadelphia on
the ship “Minerva” in 1767. Lucky sculpture: Jacob’s Ladder, in Vail Commons, or anything by Jacob Epstein.

Taurus (April 20-May 20): Mess with this bull, get the horns. But please don’t inconvenience everyone else with your horns
o’ plenty. Try playing the ocarina. This simple wind instrument, shaped somewhat like an elongated egg, emits a sound not
unlike that of the yak. If you find “ocarina” difficult to pronounce, be aware that “sweet potato” can be substituted
at the most informal of jam sessions. Unlucky egg: Fabergé owned by the Hapsburgs or Romanovs.

Gemini (May 21-June 20): The stars say Thursday is an optimal date for your “Rumble in the Jungle,” twins. However,
if you’re having trouble booking flights to Kinshasa, don’t fret. The IMAC fields or the Carolina Raptor Center are perfectly
acceptable venues. Lucky rumble: in the Bronx!!

Cancer (June 21-July 22): This week, although you might be surprised, you will experience an unexpected upswing. Because of Dorcas'
conspicuous thesis-related absence, a strange pestilence (cancer?) will threaten, but no worries, it won't dare deliver on those unseemly threats.

Leo (July 23-August 22): Many have capitulated under sway of your pheromonal influence. This week, just for fun, throw those
dogs off the scent with a new fragrance. The signature lines of Mikhail Baryshnikov, Cher, Patti LaBelle, Elizabeth Taylor, Michael
Jordan, and Debbie Gibson (Electric Youth) all merit further investigation at your local "cosmetic" counter. Lucky place: Köln.

Virgo (August 23-September 22): SHHH! Others are disturbed by your operatic aspirations. They see your Traviata for the travesty it
is. Lucky celebrity triplets separated at birth: Luciano Pavarotti, Dom DeLuise, and Paul Prudhomme.

Libra (September 23-October 22): We know that there is pain, but you hold on for one more day. BREAK FREE,
BREAK FROM THE CHAINS!! Try Mts. Pinatubo, Krakatoa, Rainier, Vesuvius, St. Helens, and Okmok. Don’t forget El Popo. Lucky ring:
of fire.

Scorpio (October 23-November 21): If you feel those around you are alienated by your sting, a good suggestion might be
to join a club or support group of like-minded individuals. Can you name the four H's? Lucky club activity: lanyards.

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21): Those who know the real you say you’re the bee’s knees. They’re more right than you
think. The tests have come back and attending physicians have diagnosed your as yet unnamed and extremely rare condition as
one which renders your patella as irrelevant and useless as those found on small, buzzing insects. Watch out for Tonya
Harding’s husband. Lucky blunt object: lead pipe.

Capricorn (December 22-January 19): Mindless diversions are the key to a stress-free existence. What diverts you? For some, it is
Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon; for others, Chutes and Ladders®. Lucky chute: laundry.

Aquarius (January 20-February 18): Isn’t it unbearable, the lightness of your being? To counter your weightlessness, try strapping copies of
The Book of Laughter and Forgetting to your torso. Its carefree content will make your battle with gravity seem a
delight, not a chore. And since l’intérieur is more significant than form anyway, it’s no worry that your clothes may
fit a little awkwardly. Lucky book adhesive: mucilage.

Dorcas would like to thank the Davidsonian Editorial Board for letting her write her senior thesis... Dorcas will return to
the horoscope next week.

ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1997

Donna Martin graduates. (In only four years. Jealous, Chris Frampton?)

Brilliant poet reads lackluster poetry

By JOHN COPENHAVER Editor Emeritus

When listening to Michael Longley, a 58-year-old Irish poet raised in Belfast, I found myself more taken with his stories
andexplanations surrounding his poems than his poems themselves. This doesn’t mean I didn’t enjoy the reading or his poetry, but
that the poet fascinated me more than his poetry. Longley was absolutely necessary to his poems; he needed to stand
with them, and they needed his voice and his background to make them complete. Although a good poem must make
a connection with the majority of its readers and listeners, it doesn’t have to make a connection with every audience
member’s experience. For example, one poem called “The Linen Workers,” required some explanation, because the central image — the image
of linen being spread out on a field by workers — most Americans (especially college students) would not be familiar
with. Longley described himself as the writer of two types of poems: the elegy and the love poem. One of
the love poems which stuck with me the longest was called “The Scissor Ceremony.” In this poem his persona, hidden
behind a bush, watches as a lover, sitting in the garden, cuts her partner’s fingernails. Longley heightens this instance into
an act of lovemaking, yoking the intimacy of sex and the innocence of an everyday task together in one moment.
One poem called “The Ice Cream Man,” an elegy to victims of the political unrest in Northern Ireland, required too
much background explanation. The listing of ice cream flavors and the names of native Irish flowers took up most of
the poem. Longley had to explain its genesis — the death of a local shop owner — in order to
connect it to the audience. It needed to be fleshed out more to allow the weight of its meaning to
be carried on its words. The entire reading from poem to poem moved quickly and kept my attention. Only when
I thought a poem failed to spark a connection did my interest die down. Longley seemed to effectively move and
penetrate his audience whether it was from his poetry or simply his presence.

Vereen Bell Award for Creative Writing
Submissions should be turned into any English faculty member by 5 p.m. Feb. 27th.

SIMPSON ASE AUTOMOTIVE
Most Cars. Offer not valid w/ any other coupons. Coupon expires 3-1-97

Ford’s Seafood, BBQ. & Catering
Catering YOU can afford
Hwy. 21 South - Cornelius, NC
10% discount on Dinner Plates with your Davidson College ID
Digital Pager (704) 513-3552
Work (704) 892-3362
(704) 782-5770
Bill, Brian, & Marty, Owners

At the Clubs — Music in two hours or less —
COMPILED BY CLAY COFER

Monday, Feb. 24
Cat’s Cradle (Carrboro/Chapel Hill): Blond Redhead/Warmers
Double Door: Les Moore, John Alexander, Jim Brock, Rick Blackwell, Charles Hairston, Joe Linsey
Irish Cue: John O’Gorman & Friends
Jack Straw’s: Free Jam w/ Russ Betenbaugh

Tuesday, Feb. 25
Amos’: Bill Hanna & Ziad Jazz Jam
Cat’s Cradle (Carrboro/Chapel Hill): John Cale
Coyote Joe’s: Vic Rorrer & The No Name Band
Double Door: Doubting Thomas
Kickbacks (Concord): Brothers from Mother Unplugged
Mythos: College night - Techno
Pterodactyl: 80s dance night
Razzles (Holiday Inn-Airport): Cracker
Ziggy’s (Winston-Salem): Mighty Blue Kings

Wednesday, Feb. 26
Amos’: The Drag
Cat’s Cradle (Carrboro): Mighty Blue Kings w/ Burnley Brothers
Club 2000: College night Dance (Bare as You Dare contest)
Coyote Joe’s: Vic Rorrer & The No Name Band
Double Door: Commander Cody & The Lost Planet Airmen
Jack Straw’s: Underfoot
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Retro 70s and 80s
Mythos: Deney Terrio & Motion (Dance Fever ’97)
Pterodactyl: Cracker
Rainbow Deli (Cornelius): Brothers From Mother
Razzles (Best Western-Airport): Cracker
Ziggy’s (Winston-Salem): Pat McGee Band/Evan & Jaron

Thursday, Feb. 27
Baha: Retro 80s Dance night
Jack Straw’s: Dayroom/Treehouse
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Retro 70s & 80s
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance (1/2 off before 11pm)

Friday, Feb. 28
Baha: Live Reggae
Jack Straw’s: Lou Ford/The Black Family
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Salsa/Merengue/Cumbia
Mythos: Dance-techno
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance/Retro & Gothic upstairs

Saturday, Mar. 1
Baha: Dance
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Salsa/Merengue/Cumbia
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance

Sunday, Mar. 2
Double Door: Les Moore and Friends
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Salsa/Merengue/Cumbia
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance
