Goodbye, Dr. Kuykendall ... A Tribute to our Davidson College President, 1984-1997

DENISE HOWARD
Administrative Assistant to the President

JOHN KUYKENDALL keeps telling me that all of these kind words and recent tributes, though very flattering and gracious, seem somewhat like having to attend your own funeral ... over and over and over again. Well, my friend, here comes one more eulogy!

When The Davidsonian requested I write an essay focusing upon the John Kuykendall that I know perhaps better than most, I was both honored and somewhat daunted by the task. There are so many facets of John that it is indeed hard to pinpoint which one is most unique; which makes this man so different, or perhaps so like the rest of us.

I have been tempted to write about his wonderful sense of humor, but then who has not heard him laugh with childlike innocence and mirth, especially at his own expense? There is no one who enjoys a bald joke any more than does he! There is always the possibility of discussing his brilliant mind, but anyone who has ever had even limited contact with John knows that his interests are both broad and varied. His love of reading ranges from Shakespeare to Ferrol Sams, from T.S. Eliot to P.D. James, from William Faulkner to Gary Larson. He finds joy in both classical music and the soulful sounds of a mountain dulcimer. He discovers peace in both the stirring art of the great masters and in the primitive works of a potter’s wheel.

It would also be possible to speak to his love of sports: baseball from both the professional and the sandlot leagues; soccer as played by both Pele and the neighborhood kids; basketball from the courts of the NBA to the Wildcats at Belk Arena. There is the family man whose face takes on a special glow like I’ve seen in very few others when he even speaks of his “Miss” or hugs his beloved Tim or Jamie. Then there is the preacher who dons his robes and a nigh holy persona when teaching from the testaments he knows so well about the Lord and Savior in whom he has undeniable faith. Even more impressive, though, is the Christian love which so easily shines through in his day-to-day life among us, and the example of compassion and caring which speaks much louder and much more eloquently than words could ever capture.

With all the different “John Kuykendalls” from which to choose, the decision alone proved to be formidable. Finally, though, because of a very special experience I had this past fall, I decided upon “John the Teacher.” Last August, just as John was preparing to begin his course on “Religion in America,” I convinced him — against some amount of protest on his part (after all, he thinks me one of his strongest critics!) — to let me audit his class. Part of me was fearful this would be the last chance I would have to enjoy his energy in teaching, I surmised; I wanted to see for myself.

Well, I was not disappointed. John Kuykendall is at his very best in the classroom. He shares his knowledge openly, and he opens both eyes and minds to such a possibility. I had always wanted to witness firsthand the metamorphosis which took place as a tired traveler wound his way upstairs and returned as giddy as any thirteen-year-old in love. There must be some great ideas he likes to sit back and watch the results with mirth and enjoyment. He is tough and fair, he both lectures and listens, he gives of himself and takes pride in the accomplishments of his students, and he is open to both teaching and the opportunity of learning himself while in that setting.

I learned a great deal from that class, but in the best sense of the value of a liberal arts experience, not in all cases what I had expected to learn. Sure, I know now much more than I ever thought possible about the religious heritage of this nation — from the early settlers, to the religious life of Southern slaves, on through the first and second “Great Awakenings,” and into the tumultuous world in which I myself live — but the great epiphany of that classroom encounter came in the sure and certain knowledge that this is...

No matter how many campaigns he might lead, or how many...millions he might raise, the true gifts he has to bring to this institution are the sharing of his mind and his knowledge and his goodness with those who wish so much to learn. No matter how many buildings he might help make a reality, the true foundations of this college are that of teaching and learning. No matter how many alumni gatherings he might attend or how much goodwill and good feeling about Davidson he might spread, his greatest gift to the future of this institution is what he can accomplish in the classroom and in the lives of those students who are — or certainly should be — the raison d’être of Davidson. And so, regardless of what I may have retained ten minutes after class was over or what else will remain in years yet to come, I learned that lesson well.

And speaking of lessons well learned: My memory tells me that those many years ago when I was originally asked to take on writing assignments, I was instructed to tie the conclusion to the beginning. And so, my friend, let me remind you that you have many other students whose lives and minds and hearts need your special tutelage. But for 1997-98 you have earned your sabbatical and time of reflection and quiet contemplation... and so the final words of this “eulogy:” May you rest in peace!

Trustee Resolution, April 18, 1997

WHEREAS, The Davidson College Board of Trustees wishes to give thanks and express heartfelt appreciation to the dedicated leadership of John Wells Kuykendall for his years of service to Davidson College;

NOW, THEREFORE LET IT BE RESOLVED that the trustees in the following statement express their gratitude for the contributions of John Wells and Nancy Moore Kuykendall for their lives of service to the College.

The 160 million dollar man was born in Charlotte on May 8, 1938. He came to Davidson College as a freshman in 1955 with lofty ambitions to forswear scrambled eggs and socks forever and to learn to play pool. By commencement 1959 it was clear he was an overachiever, graduating with a degree in English, cum laude, and a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa. John’s education was impeccably southern, Davidson and Union, and impeccably Ivy League, Yale and Princeton. There is little doubt that these places helped make him the man he became, but his deepest qualities were forged by his father, James (class of 1927), his mother, Emily, and Aunt Winnie. They instilled in him the virtues of Christian devotion, the Calvinist work ethic, a fine sense of humor, and the feeling of self-worth tempered by authentic humility. They also taught him how to love.

Leadership is the marrow of his personality and wherever he has gone people have instinctively looked to him for direction. At Davidson and Union, he was president of the student body. When he taught at Auburn, he was elected president of the faculty senate at a time of great turmoil for that university. Though in his typical self-deprecating manner he was surprised, none who knew and trusted him were, when the trustees elected him to be Davidson’s fifteenth president. There are those other qualities that buttress and enhance his natural inclination for leadership and equipped him for his remarkable presidency. His capacity as a teacher and a scholar was confirmed at Auburn when in 1981 he was named the outstanding teacher in the school of Arts and Science. In 1982, Mortar Board rated him the university’s favorite teacher. Eloquence is an adjective which easily comes to our lips when we seek to describe him as a preacher or as an apologist for Davidson. He always has the right word for each occasion. Dr. Kuykendall’s conviction has been from the start that we were not here just to teach and learn, but to serve. He inaugurated his presidency under the banner of Scholarship and Servanthood. As president, he is the quintessential servant leader. His style is the antidote for academic arrogance and self-congratulatory elitism, which is a temptation for any college like ours. Wherever he has gone, particularly among alumni, it is his character, honor, and genuineness, as well as his intelligence, that has solicited their loyalty and pride in their alma mater. He has by the manner of his life called us all — trustees, students, staff, faculty, friends — to be better people than we are. Few colleges can say that about their president. We are a far better college because John Kuykendall has been our president. There are three great loves in John Kuykendall’s life: his Lord, Davidson College, and his family.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees of Davidson College in formal session this eighteenth day of April does express its profound gratitude to John Wells and Nancy Moore Kuykendall for their energetic and enduring contributions to Davidson College.