THE DAVIDSONIAN

Flying Karamazov Brothers astound: Modern-day jongleurs entertain a packed Love Auditorium

By Wesley H. Goldsberry
Arts & Living Editor

Tuesday’s performance in the 1997-98 Davidson College Artists Series, the first of the year, featured one of the most talented and unique acts in the country. The Flying Karamazov Brothers, a four-man ensemble of juggling musicians, performed their newest show entitled “Sharps, Flats, & Accidentals” before a full crowd of students and community members. The performance lasted about two hours, not including the reception which followed in the Chambers gallery.

The Karamazovs, who are not related in any way and are not named Karamazov, made their zaniness apparent from the very start of the show. As student Britton Taylor addressed the audience, informing all of the public reception which would follow (which the performers themselves did attend), an off-stage voice shouted out asking if it would feature kegs. The voice then corrected himself, adding, “Oh that’s right, we’re at Davidson,” (or something similar) poking fun at the ever-changing alcohol policy. The joke came as a definite surprise to most audience members.

The Brothers’ first act was a musical number, an arrangement of the first movement from W.A. Mozart’s Concerto in Bb for Bassoon, featuring Ivan Karamazov (Howard Jay Patterson) playing the bassoon part on euphonium, with two brothers accompanying him on concertina and a wind instrument similar to a clarinet. Ivan’s euphonium skills were, in fact, reasonably impressive.

Their next number, and every one following, featured juggling. Each of the four brothers began juggling three pins, with the group then juggling all 12 pins together in ornate aeronautical patterns of unparalleled complexity. Their stunts managed to grow in complexity as the night wore on.

The idea behind “Sharps, Flats, and Accidentals,” as one brother explained, is that juggling is in fact music, which he proved by way of a flawed syllogism — music is rhythm, juggling is rhythm, therefore juggling is music. The Karamazovs discovered many interesting ways of incorporating juggling and musical performance. In their arrangement of Bach’s Two Part Invention in d minor, two brothers performed an arrangement for marimbas, each man simultaneously juggling three mallets while using them to hit the appropriate keys at the right times. This was, perhaps, their most astonishing feat. Another trick featured a brother wearing a board with drums on his back, juggling three pins while using them to beat the heads of the drums.

In the Karamazovs’ most famous act, entitled “The Gamble,” master juggler Ivan accepted a challenge to juggle a small statue, a blanket, and a telephone for 10 seconds. He maintained control over the three objects for a mere nine seconds, earning the punishment, a cream pie to the face, as well as a standing ovation from the crowd.

The Flying Karamazov Brothers’ brand of comedy is well-suited for younger children, although palatable for youth and adults of all ages. Their show incorporated a joke about Jesse Helms and one crack on UNC, in which one of the brothers banged on a drum three times to signify No. 3, saying, “That was for the folks in Chapel Hill.” The group remarked that the joke seemed to work everywhere in North Carolina.

The four jesters wore different costumes for each act, ranging from conservative tuxedos to feminine ballet garb. One of their last acts involved each brother wearing an electronic helmet, which when banged upon (by a juggling pin) would emit a musical note. One of the helmets failed to work properly, causing the wearer to perform the piece “a cappella,” or with voice, so that each time in the piece that he hit his helmet with the pin, he “sang” the appropriate note. The tone quality in his singing was deplorable, but forgivable considering the circumstances.

The Flying Karamazov Brothers left the audience in complete awe of their skills and creativity, and got this year’s Artists Series off to a roaring start.

Sexual Etiquette

By Lindsey Meyers
Student Health Advisor

Welcome back to the Student Body! We want to inform you of an exciting upcoming college event: the Health Center has invited Dr. Robert A. Hatcher, M.D., to speak in the 900 Room Nov. 10 at 8:00 p.m. He is the author of Sexual Etiquette 101 and will speak about the same topic. He should be a really entertaining guest to have around on campus, so drop by and aska few questions. This guy is the mentor of our very own “Sex Lady,” Georgia Ringle, and has taught her everything he knows. His tenet for sexual etiquette are as follows:

10 Rules of Sexual Etiquette
1. Be sure sexual activity is consensual. No means no.
2. In sexual situations, always be thinking ahead.
3. Be aware of your and his/her alcohol and drug intake.
4. Be prepared.
5. Communicate openly.
6. Share responsibility in a sexual relationship.
7. Respect sexual privacy.
8. Don’t sexually harass other individuals.
9. Be considerate of others.

Here is a sample of the funny stories in his book:

My Diaphragm: A Real Conversation Piece
“One morning after removing my diaphragm, I placed it onto a shelf but not inside its case. At a social occasion in our home that evening, our new puppy came frolicking into the middle of the living room — with my diaphragm hanging off of his eye tooth.”

Shopping and Sex Do Not Mix
“My boyfriend and I went shopping one day. When I went to try on an outfit, he accompanied me into the dressing room as he frequently did. We became aroused and engaged in intercourse on the floor. Upon leaving the dressing room, we were grabbed by security. The entire episode had been videotaped. Needless to say, I was mortified.”

We hope that these funny stories lure you into coming to hear Dr. Hatcher speak next week. Hope to see you there! As always, please send comments and questions c/o Mitch Shores, P.O. Box 4180.

Sullivan a Success in 900 Room
By ZaIpDEE Rose
Staff Writer

Sullivan had a strong speaking voice, which would sometimes be a thick New York accent, depending on what he was reading. Because some of his poems were heavy in theme, he would crack jokes in between readings to keep the mood less somber. Sullivan ended with a five-part poem that took 25 minutes to read! It is his newest poem entitled Zen Match Box. All in all, Sullivan was an enjoyable reader with perspectives as a New Yorker living in Charlotte. Listeners were invited to the Homeroom after the reading for a more personal visit with Sullivan that included book signing.

The Literary Arts Committee sponsored an award-winning poet from Charlotte on Oct. 27. Chuck Sullivan was well-received by a moderate audience of approximately 50 in the Union 900 Room. Christian Hunt, a sophomore who had Sullivan as a teacher at one point, introduced Sullivan as a “Catholic existentialist.” Indeed, Sullivan’s poems were satirical and light-hearted, filled with religious images. He started with two poems about his grandmother who had passed away, then moved on to topics like the Los Angeles riots, and pigeon fighting in New York City.

On the Scene at Davidson College
Coffeehouse. Drown yourself in caffeinated bilge and little powdered donuts. 8:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Joy Harjo. Native American poet extraordinaire, reads some of her works in the 900 Room 7:30 p.m.-9:00 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java. Hurry, the fat-free Raspberry Newtons are going stale. 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.
21-Year-Old-Night. Alcohol for the upperclassmen’s collective liver. 10:00 p.m.-12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Gerry Chisolm holds a sale on the College Union Patio 9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m.
St. Clair Trio features a soprano, a piano, and a clarinet. Come keep Wes company. 8:00 p.m. at Hodson Hall.
Coffeehouse. Eat more ARE 8:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Gerry Chisolm. The sale of the century continues on the Union Patio. 9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m.
Davidson College Symphony Orchestra Concert. Come see your classmates play works by Mozart and Berlioz. 8:00 p.m. in Love Auditorium.
Jumpin’ Java. Free Triscuits! 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.
Piano students recital. Piano students tickle the ivories. 8:00 p.m. in Hodson Hall.
Hunger Banquet. An allegory of world hunger. 6:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m. at Vail Commons.
Freddy Jones Band. Appearing in Love Auditorium for $5.00, if it’s worth it to you. 8:00 p.m.
Tom Wicker. The Wickster gives the inaugural Batten Professorship lecture at 8:00 p.m. in Hodson Hall.
“The Godfather.” Beware of drowsy venison. 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Mexican Muralist Movement. 4:30 p.m.-6:00 p.m. in the 900 Room. For more info, contact Nancy Fairley.
“The Godfather.” Al Pacino again. 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Felonious Swank. They’re a Beatles cover band. Playing from 10:00 p.m.-11:30 p.m. at the Outpost.
Jumpin’ Java. No quesadillas. 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.
Piano Trio. More piano-playing. 8:00 p.m. at Hodson Hall.
Dr. Robert Hatcher. He speaks in the 900 Room at 8:00 p.m.