THE DAVIDSONIAN HOROSCOPE
Dorcas AND LITTLE DEBBIE
Consulting Astrologists

Aries (March 21-April 20)—Q*bert comes to you in a vision after a sermon. To banish this sneaky little “guy,” play non-Atari video games. Don’t get *& @! Get even. Lucky tool: Joystick.

Taurus (April 21-May 20)—Shun the trendy foods of yuppiedom. Sun-dried tomatoes, portobella mushrooms, sushi, any food with baby in front of it and all nouvelle cuisine are all OUT. Lucky repast: beans’n’rice.

Gemini (May 21-June 20)—Revive the little known cousin of the spaghetti western. The orzo western© has more appeal, in a little but well-rounded way. Thus spake Dorcas. Lucky Person: Chef Boyardee.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)—This week, like so many others, is stunning in its pure, lyrical beauty. Don’t worry about your life, your future, graduate school. All will be well because you are ecstasy.

Leo (July 23-August 22)—Take advantage of the springtime to learn about the birds and the bees. It takes a lot to get ‘em right, but if you work real hard at it, you certainly can. Lucky name: Mrs. G.

Virgo (August 23-September 22)—Japanese film rocks your world. Be careful though, you don’t wanna get too dark and incomprehensible. Mantra: “RAN is only a movie.”

Libra (September 23-October 22)—Water your lawn at night and be sod ghoul.

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)—Find the hidden quarry on Davidson campus. This involves a lot of digging. Get your pickaxe and go. Pile the rocks you find around Patterson Court. Voila, a moat.

Sagittarius (November 23-December 21)—Get with the programme and stop spreading rumours about your mates or mum. Lucky place: Stonehenge or the Royal Albert Hall.

Capricorn (December 22-January 19)—If you think you are possessed by the devil, then do this: take a hedgehog and rub it on your face. The devil will come out.

Aquarius (January 20-February 18)—Cast off the fetters of the non-age. In other words, think for yourself. You might be surprised, but this doesn’t happen very often here at Davidson. Try this: “I think...”

Pisces (February 19-March 20)—Swim with the other fishies in the East River. You really did a job on those take-home tests. Lucky footwear: Nike air cement blocks. Idol: Jimmy Hoffa, the Teflon™ Don. Symbols: alpha (no handy symbol available) and Q.

ARTS & LIVING
MONDAY, APRIL 14, 1997

Now HIRING! FOR 1997-1998
APPLICATIONS OUTSIDE UNION
GREAT OPPORTUNITY TO SPEND MORE TIME AROUND BEER!

BEN & JERRY’S
VERMONT'S FINEST © ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT
Charlotte: Davidson: 202 So. Main St. ¢ 892-0604
Myrtle Beach: 444-1074

Part of a rhythmic nation
By S. ALLEN
Guest Writer

If a boost of energy is what you needed to begin the weekend, the BSC was the place to be Friday night. Chris Thompson and the Cultural Ensemble visited Davidson College to educate and entertain with their African-styled drumming, singing, and dancing as a part of the campus Umoja celebration. If the occasion had to be summed up in one word, ‘energetic’ would most accurately fit the description.

The fast-paced drum rhythms and quick, flighty dancers were a perfect match. The two supported each other so well that it was hard to distinguish which was uplifting the other: was the music for the dancers or the dancers for the music? Just as every beat of the drum was powerful, so was every movement of the dancers. They were not merely going through their choreographed movements, but passionately communicating through music and dance.

A member of the Cultural Ensemble takes flight.

The program consisted of four main components. To introduce the show, a traditional Tam Tams (drum call) was performed. In African cultures, the calling of the drums is a major form of communication to alert the village of important news. Once the performers had the attention of the audience, they proceeded with the Song of Blessings. These enchanting lyrics, al-Though foreign to the American ear, the music put the audience in a swaying trance. After the beautiful singing, the Water Dance followed. Every motion of the dancers begged the heavens for rain and a good harvest. Amazingly, they did not spend more than a second on either foot. To close the event, the audience partook in a Bontaba, where everyone danced together to the beat of the drums. Chris Thompson concluded the evening by asking the audience to take a pledge to never look down on anyone unless for the purpose of reaching down to lift them up. Awed by the dancing and inspired by the message, audience members were certainly infused with the energy to face the rigors of Davidson life.

Emily Smith

Sonatas from page 12

All performers should be commended for a great evening of music. At the conclusion of the performance, Duncan personally recognized and thanked Mrs. Lawing for her dedication. Lawing sacrificed preparing her own recital to learn and rehearse all the accompaniments of the Sonatas. Appreciation for her time, patience, and virtuoso talent is well-deserved.

I Sold My Body from page 11

With cold saline pumping through my veins and a pretty good buzz, I skipped to the cashier for two tens and a fiver. The entire escapade took three hours, with only 45 minutes hooked up to the machine. The rest of the time was spent waiting and answering medical questions. The next visits (and there will be more) should only take an hour. I can go twice a week with an average pay-off of $20 a visit. I highly recommend this avenue of income, and although there isn’t much room for advancement, the people are great and $20 an hour isn’t bad. Pretty soon I'll probably even have enough money to buy food, and my friends won’t have to “borrow” rolls from the Commons anymore.

At the Clubs — Music in two hours or less — Compiled by Clay Cofer

Monday, Apr. 14
Double Door: Les Moore, John Alexander, Jim Brock, Rick Blackwell, Charles Hairston, Joe Linsey
Irish Cue: John O’Gorman & Friends
Jack Straw’s: Free Jam w/ Russ Betenbaugh

Tuesday, Apr. 15
Amos’: Bill Hanna & Ziad Jazz Jam
Cat’s Cradle (Chapel Hill): Son Volt, Richard Buckner
Coyote Joe’s (country): Vic Rorrer & The No Name Band
Double Door: Americana Night: Mike Harrell, Margaret Kennedy, Doubting Thomas, David Childers, Lenny Federal, Rank Outsiders
Mythos: College Night — Techno
Pterodactyl: 80s Dance night
Razzles (Holiday Inn-Airport): Cracker
Rockafellas’ (Columbia SC): The Independents, Tettio Boys
Ziggy’s (Winston-Salem): Will & Rich

Wednesday, Apr. 16
Cat’s Cradle (Carrboro): Son Volt w/ Richard Buckner
Comedy Zone: Pinkard & Bowden
Club 2000: College Night Dance (Bare as you Dare contest)
Coyote Joe’s (country): Vic Rorrer & The No Name Band
Double Door: Neglected Sheep
Jack Straw’s: Galaxy Girl, My So Called Band
Jeremiah’s: Retro 70s and 80s
Mythos: Deney Terrio & Motion (Dance Fever 97)
Pterodactyl: Anti-Alternative Dance Night (Free admission)
Rainbow Deli: Brothers From Mother acoustic
Razzles (Best Western-Airport): Cracker
Rockafellas’ (Columbia SC): Bloodhound Gang, Nerfherder, Isabelle’s Gift
Tremont: L7, Five-Eight & That Who Has
Ziggy’s (Winston-Salem): Jupiter Coyote, Uncle Mingo

Thursday, Apr. 17
Baha: Retro 80s Dance night
Jack Straw’s: Chicken Fat Music Co.
Jeremiah’s: Retro 70s & 80s
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance
Tremont: Purple School Bus

Friday, Apr. 18
Baha: Mighty Dub Kats w/ D.J. Feelgood
Jack Straw’s: Honeydogs, Treehouse
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Salsa/Merengue/Cumbia
Mythos: Dance - Techno
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance/Retro & Gothic upstairs
The Sound Factory: Atlanta Rhythm Section
Tremont: Cris Williamson, Tret Fure, Son Volt, Richard Buckner

Saturday, Apr. 19
Baha: Dance (No Cover Before 10)
Jack Straw’s: The VooDudes!
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Salsa/Merengue/Cumbia
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance
Sound Factory: Type O Negative, Stuck Mojo
Tremont: Billionaire

Sunday, Apr. 20
Double Door: Les Moore and Friends
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Salsa/Merengue/Cumbia
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance