_ MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2

Calling all Greeks: Grab your spears and form a phalanx

Fraternities teach lifetime skills, love for the school

I've received heat as a fraternity man since pledging Kappa Alpha in 1995, but I have taken little of it seriously. Pockets of Davidson independents grumble, Greeks get bad national press, and occasionally my little brother, a sophomore in high school, gives me a jab in the ribs and calls me “frat-dog.” My father complained about the dues until I became treasurer and then president the next year, earning a cut in my board bills in each case. KA means a lot to me, and while I recognize the flaws in the national fraternity system, Patterson Court, and my own KA Sigma chapter, I simultaneously praise what Davidson fraternities have given men since the 1880s.

I urge concerned Greeks — current and former — from this campus to consider our strengths in numbers, accomplishments, and ideals. Are threats to abolish fraternities at Davidson real and immediate, and are the accusations and consequent solutions coming from the vocal few — namely Scott Denham and Matthew Hobbie — even valid? I seriously doubt it.

Kappa Alpha has taught me much outside of the swinging doors of Chambers. The house registrar printed a partial listing of our two advanced classes just for this article. And keep in mind that there are also many 100 and 200 level offerings.

*FRA 314: Intermediate KA Accounting: Year-long course. Ceiling: 1. Independent Study. Topics include basics of running a small business, health insurance issues, salary negotiations, etc.

*FRA 499: The KA Presidency: Year-long course. Ceiling: 1. Independent Study. Areas of special focus include management, recruitment, public relations, etiquette, law, organization, fundraising, ethics, argument, public speaking — i.e. The Real World. This semester’s focus is resilience under blanket criticism from those who think they can cleanse the campus with the wave of a wand.

Which brings me conveniently back on track. A brother read Scott Denham’s article in the Nov. 18 edition of the Davidsonian out loud at dinner last week, and I am glad he did. We all thanked Denham for enlightening us to the fact that all KA’s “carry a concrete stigma of racism and anti-semitism for many non-Southern professional recruiters” because we suddenly realized with dread how we are not conforming to KA standards. I called an emergency meeting of my officers. We are going to get to the bottom of this; our exclusivity factor has slipped. (Freshmen, this goes out to you: Please do not join our house yet. Your files are currently being reviewed and we reserve the right to exclude you if your bloodlines don’t make the cut.)

In all seriousness, Dr. Denham’s point is well taken. Bigotry and violence are ugly things with which to be associated, but the misdeeds of isolated KA’s at other schools have about as much to do with me and the current brothers of Sigma chapter as Adolf Hitler has to do with a man who speaks fluent German.

Unfortunately, the sorority issue has been sewn to the hip of the raging fraternity monster by an essayist working in the bowels of the Union, so I suppose I am obligated to make my final point in order to round things out. Professor Randy Ingram states in his Nov. 11 Op-Ed in the Davidsonian, “Just the risk of changing the applicant pool from which these students come would be enough to confirm my opposition to sororities.” He is addressing the claim some women have made that they would not have been interested in Davidson had there been national sororities on campus. Looking at this point from a new perspective, I would like to hear how many Davidson men would have enrolled somewhere else had there not been fraternities on this campus. I would not have considered Davidson seriously, and many of the 50-plus percent of male students who belong to one of our national Greek clubs echo my sentiment.

Are we bad, then? Are we part of the “outside influence” Denham is so paranoid about? I grew up 20 miles from campus, I volunteer at the admissions office, and I already give to the annual fund — I love this place. So hark, all Greek men locking your house doors against invading Trojans who hope to “anchor some of the houses thematically, perhaps: one kind of sporty, another kind of artsy, another kind of international.” Look in the mirror, call home, and visit your adviser during office hours. Ask the questions: Am I morally corrupt? Am I not intelligent enough to govern myself? Once you have a good laugh over the false assumptions and burn-the-frats rhetoric, rinse off the morality mud Denham likes to throw. Then stand up and prove them wrong.

Davidson Greeks: Grab your spears now, and form a phalanx. They're after us.

The latest from Iraq: Events in Persian Gulf have a real impact

The difficult — yet rewarding life — as a military child had a little problem last week getting my articles in on time, or should I say, at all. When I explained to my news editor that my mind had been elsewhere, that I was having a personalCrisis, she looked at me with concern and said not to worry. A week later, my fears have been assuaged only mildly. The situation in Iraq has meant different things to different people. For a friend of mine here at school, it means he might have trouble getting a plane ticket home to Saudi Arabia over Christmas. For me, it was time to worry—I am a military brat. When people ask where I’m from, I just smile, laugh, and ask whether they'd prefer the short version or the long version. My dinner table at home is generally a sequence of acronyms, though I can only differentiate between the PX and BX. I carry a military identification card as religiously as my Cat card, and I love the sound of planes taking off over the house at night. While the military life has almost singularly controlled the course of my life and character, there are times in life I wish my father were anything but a colonel in the Air Force.

In 1990 and 1991, when the Gulf War took place, my father flew several missions—enough, at least, to earn him one of the medals that hang from his fancy “mess dress.” So when I began seeing headlines last week about trouble in Iraq, my stomach sank. All I could imagine was another round with Hussein, another round of the mysterious and still-questioned Gulf War Syndrome, another round of my father gone to the other side of the world. So I called my father.

“Dad,” I said, “Give me the SCOOP on Iraq. Just a quick synopsis.”

Following the Gulf War in 1991, a resolution was passed by the U.N. coalition that required Iraq to allow inspectors from the coalition to enter and search the country at any time for a buildup of weapons of mass destruction. While there have been minor tensions in the years since, it was only recently that Hussein expelled inspectors from the country. The United States, after fruitless efforts to reform the original coalition, promised that if Iraq failed to comply with the terms set forth in the resolution and allow inspectors to reenter the country, it would enter militarily. Since that announcement, the U.S. has proceeded to build its forces in southwest Asia only slightly, as many troops are already stationed in the area. The process has been a bit of “saber-rattling,” as my father called it, more a promise to use force than an outright offensive against Iraq. Hussein, who has been responsible for the deaths of more than 10 million of his own people, has begun to move peasants into his palaces to act as human shields. It is believed that Hussein and the Iraqi government have in their possession enough Anthrax and various other nuclear biological chemicals to kill off the entire population of the world.

With all this in mind, and on my mind for many days, it finally hit me that when the time came, my father would have to depart—not for a flight there and back, but for several months, probably over the holidays. Though I have been spared many of the indignities of military life, such as having my father out of the country for birthdays and Christmases, or being forced to move multiple times within a single year, the thought of my 45-year-old father in the middle of a desert planning military strikes just does not suit my fancy.

America has a strong military foundation. We have the strategy, the weapons, and the men should the time come that we need to use them. The idea is that they fight so we can continue to live in a democracy. I've always had different views than my friends on the use of force in other countries, usually because of my father. Because I had a man sitting there at the dinner table explaining why we were there, why we needed to be there, and why we would fight until we reached our goal. Because I had a man absent from the dinner table putting in outrageous hours at the office, flying missions at 2:00 a.m., learning how to inject himself six times simultaneously in the arm if certain gases were released into the air. Because I had a man in my family who had to wear dog tags to make sure he got home if he was ever killed in combat.

I will always be proud that my father serves his country as a member of the United States Armed Services. I will always be proud that he is willing to give his life for his country. And I pray daily that he will never have to.