THE DAVIDSONIAN LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

No lack of effort here

To the Editor:

In response to Jay Cantrell’s article in last week’s Davidsonian (“Fall sports teams: A call to arms”), I am pleased to see that you are bubbling with school pride and that you, along with others, wish to see our fall sports teams excel. Cantrell’s article was full of facts, facts some of us wish to put behind us. Yes, the field hockey team is 4-6, the women’s soccer team is 0-5-2, and the men’s soccer team is 2-6. As captain of the men’s team, I would like to see not only us, but every team on campus obtain more desirable results. As a spectator of sports as well, I am more inclined to watch a winning team than a team which is struggling. As a player, I enjoy playing in front of over 2,000 fans at Richardson Field. I would like to thank not only Cantrell, but the other fans who have attended our games. I hope the support will continue as the season progresses.

I speak not only for the players on my team, but others as well, when I say that I was offended by Cantrell’s accusations of us not playing with heart. The men’s soccer team has lost four games by one goal, two of which were decided in overtime. These losses came against Wisconsin, the 1995 national champion, Radford, and Wisconsin-Milwaukee. We have played against stiff competition and are now a more experienced team which has learned from its mistakes. It would be appreciated if he would refrain from attacking the character of players on my team. It was Rich Kleiman’s aggressive play in the penalty box which led to a Davidson goal as well as a black eye. I would like to see Cantrell approach a player who was kicked in the face and tell him he wasn’t playing with heart. While he’s at it, he should tell Lawrence Cann and Pat Miller, both of whom have stitches across the eye from various tackles, that they don’t play with heart. Neither Marshall Tyler nor Wes Roach have seen playing time this season as a result of injuries acquired in the summer while training for the season. Players with no heart don’t train that hard. While most students partake in summer activities, we spend at least four hours per day in the North Carolina heat trying to improve our game so that Davidson’s students can tell their friends at home that the College has successful athletic teams. I’m not asking you to join us, nor am I asking for a pat on the back. I only ask that you not insult any of the fall sports teams. Just because a team doesn’t boast a stellar record doesn’t mean that its players aren’t playing with heart. To put it bluntly, expressing one’s ideas often leads to useful discourse, but presupposing indolence or lackadaisical play on the part of Davidson athletes is neither useful nor wanted.

Phil Julien
Captain of the men’s soccer team
Class of 1998

Teams need fans, not Cantrell’s words

To the Editor:

I was disappointed and frustrated when I read Jay Cantrell’s article regarding our fall sports teams in the Sept. 23 Davidsonian. I can’t imagine one coach or athlete who enjoys losing. Instead, I know a very dedicated coaching staff and their athletes who have, every time they step onto the court or field, the goal of winning and representing themselves and the College with pride. Seldom are any of us involved in athletics fortunate enough to experience an undefeated or injury-free season. We know all too clearly what it feels like to have high expectations that have to be altered because of inopportune injuries, and also to have difficult losses, those where we give the best possible effort and still come up short. We don’t need to be reminded of how much it hurts to lose. But what hurts even more is to feel that there are some folks out there who think athletes and coaches aren’t bothered by losing. Cantrell suggests that teams should step up the intensity, get pumped, leave their heart and soul at Richardson Field, and, if they need inspiration, to watch Rudy or listen to the Rocky theme song. I can assure him that coaches do all in their power to motivate, and to get athletes to respond to that motivation. And I’m sure that all of our athletes would much prefer to be inspired by stands full of their cheering fellow students than a song or a movie. So maybe next week Cantrell can watch a few athletic events and become inspired himself, then write an article asking — even pleading — his fellow students to come out and support the people they sit next to every day in class — the people who are willing to take on the rigors of Davidson academics while putting in hours of conditioning, training, practicing, and performing athletics at the Division I level. I also would suggest that sports reporters actually attend the home events on which they provide coverage instead of just calling a coach or athlete an hour before deadline. I guarantee that a first-hand account will always be more exciting and inspiring to readers and participants alike. So, fall teams, keep up the good work. There are many of us who applaud your dedication and effort and who are proud of you. Regardless of what the scoreboard says.

John Filar
Head coach of the women’s basketball team

Fellow athletes must stick together

To the Editor:

To all fall sports teams: After reading Jay Cantrell’s commentary on fall sports, we as a team began to realize how connected all athletes are here at Davidson. Like all students, we have a four-course load, but in addition we have 20-plus hours of practice a week. We've all spent long weekends in cramped buses and vans, and watching game films in Huntington, W.Va. Meanwhile, all of our friends are frolicking on the Court. We sacrifice our family and vacation for our team. Our bodies take the toll with sprained ankles, shin splints, ACL tears, and hyper-extended knees. Our reward? Quality rehab time with Beth and Gator, not to mention fun fashion accessories such as crutches and ice bags. However, this is a small price to pay for the lasting relationships gained and the rush of a well-earned win. Losing? It happens. And we understand the disappointing feeling of thinking you have let down your school, coaches, and teammates. We've all felt our hearts sink, standing helpless watching the opponent scream in victory. The point is, we know how it feels, and we want you to know that there are at least 15 other students on this campus who can relate. We know your frustrations, we salute your efforts, and are confident of your abilities. We got your back.

The women’s basketball team

Former athlete has questions for Cantrell

To the Editor:

As a reader of the Davidsonian and a former athlete, I have a few questions for Jay Cantrell. First, has he ever played a sport? If so, did he win every single game/match/whatever? I seriously doubt it. And if he actually is an athlete, does he remember what it felt like to lose? Not the best feeling. I bet there were times that Cantrell lost (if he was ever on...a team) despite all the team’s best efforts. The last thing a team experiencing difficulties needs is a public lashing. Humiliation does not equal support or inspiration.

Finally, I think Cantrell has forgotten the role of sports here at Davidson. The last I checked, sports are supposed to first teach student-athletes teamwork and leadership, second to add to the campus environment. To put it bluntly, sports are for athletes, not for Cantrell. If he wants entertainment, watch some television. If he wants to cheer for a team guaranteed to win, rent Hoosiers. Because here in reality, it doesn’t always work that way. That’s not “ugly,” that’s life. Cantrell should be a real sports fan and cheer anyway. He should be a gentleman and save the ranting about intensity for a group of students who aren’t working their butts off to balance school, personal life, and trying to win games for people like Cantrell.

Jessica Benoit
jebenoit@davidson.edu
Class of 2001

Mysterious e-mailer chimes in

To the Editor:
To put it bluntly, Jay Cantrell needs a kick in the rear. He seems to lack an appreciation for Davidson athletics, and is in dire need to realize that there are many athletes at Davidson doing their best out on the field. Many athletes spend endless hours training to represent our school. Cantrell should have pride in our school and get rid of his attitude. So what if we may not be winning. Hasn’t Cantrell ever been on a team before? Winning isn’t everything.

wildcat@davidson.edu

Swimmer: We don’t do it for Cantrell

To the Editor:
I train for myself. Nothing else could keep me there. I cannot do it for my parents, my colleagues, or even because I should. I have to know myself, and know I want it. I come back every day because I understand the fathom of my commitment and what it means to risk an exhibition in competition. If I did not love the practice, then I would not be there — I would not attempt to act like an athlete for an audience. I applaud the student-athletes who step up every day and look to the next competition. I apologize to those who are disappointed in our performance. But as much as we feed off of your excitement, we do not do it for you. If we win, we welcome your frenzy. If we lose, we accept your criticism. But we cannot accept your insinuations that we are not aware of our loss, that we are complacent. I refer to statements like the following by Jay Cantrell in last week’s Davidsonian: “Whatever the reason, soccer players, you've dug yourself a hole.” Are the soccer players now inspired to play harder? Why not something positive? Something that will leave in its wake a desire to supplement our drive by performing for our colleagues — rather than animosity and underappreciation?

I take pride in knowing the cross country team ran hard at its barely covered, single home race. I respect the volleyball team for their determination. I cheer the women and men on the soccer field, and I am excited the football team is winning. I want them all to win. But not for my sake. I leave the game and it’s over for me. They have practice the next day. They remember their win or loss and focus on the next time — and try to win. I want them to win for themselves. I know, like everybody else, what it means to get down and frustrated. It hurts me to see the individuals, who I know and do not know, lose. But they need it to help them come back the next time. I’m just watching.

To the Davidson teams: I charge you to revel in your wins and take pride in your losses knowing you work hard every day. Take a loss and use its sting to hone your training even more.

David Maddux
Captain of the men’s swimming and diving team
Class of 1998

I stand tall at field

Cross Country has best performance of season

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1997

home meet two weeks ago.

Suzy Burr shows her winning stride in the Wildcats

By Bratton Holmes
Staff Writer

Both the men’s and women’s cross country teams had successful meets Saturday at the Greensboro Invitational. The women’s team finished third of eight teams in what was clearly its best meet thus far. The Wildcats were close behind second-place finisher Western Carolina. According to coach Beth Puckett, the squad would have defeated the Catamounts were it not for the absence of rookie Jill Neumayer. Suzy Burr finished first for Davidson with an impressive time of 19:03 — good for an eighth place overall performance. Allie Curran came in second for the Wildcats, finishing in 19:24, and Smyth Bitter was close behind her at 19:33. The team’s co-captains, Kelly Kiefer and Katie Lannon, were the team’s fourth- and sixth-place finishers, respectively, with times of 20:08 and 20:38. Claire Frey grabbed the fifth spot for Davidson with a time of 20:33. The meet marked an excellent outing for the team, with each runner’s individual time improving significantly from the opening meet three weeks ago.

The men’s squad, meanwhile, finished fifth out of the eight teams at the meet. The first runner for Davidson was freshman phenom Neil Burt, who finished fourth overall with a time of 26:25, the fastest time ever by a Davidson runner on the Greensboro course. Brent Ferrell finished second for the Wildcats followed by Thomas McElveen. William Isenhour and Victor Talbird rounded out Davidson’s top five. Tripp Franklin also competed in the meet after sitting out the last two due to injuries.

“This is probably the most impressive performance we’ve had this season, if not the past two years,” Janet Aardema said. “Most of the girls ran personal bests. We only lost to Wake Forest, who is a powerhouse, and Western, who is real close. We’ve already beaten conference teams this season that we haven’t beaten in years. So this season’s really looking up.”

Field hockey falls to rival Appalachian

By Clayton Schloss
Staff Writer

The field hockey squad came up short against conference rival Appalachian St. Thursday in Boone, losing to the Mountaineers 3-1. The game, initially scheduled for the previous day at Davidson, had to be moved to the Mountaineers’ AstroTurf field due to excessive water on the Wildcats’ home turf.

The teams were evenly matched, as the AstroTurf field led to a rapidly paced game highlighted by many fast breaks and changes of possession. The Wildcats actually held a statistical advantage over Appalachian, tallying more shots, short corners, and saves. But they could not take advantage of their opportunities. Attacker Lowell Rayburn scored the only goal for the Wildcats on a short corner. Rayburn inbounded the ball to midfielder Chase Keith, who made a pass over to defender Lindsey Parker. Parker took a shot, and Rayburn deflected it past the Mountaineer goalie.

“We had the momentum going our way the whole game,” Rayburn said. “Most of the action was in their half of the field, but we just couldn’t capitalize.”

Although the Wildcats lead the traditional Davidson-Appalachian series 20-15, this was the Mountaineers’ third straight victory over Davidson.

Davidsonian SPORTS — Division I coverage for Division I sports.