THE DAVIDSONIAN HOROSCOPE | DORCAS AND TUBBS Consulting Astrologists

Aries (March 21-April 19)— All befriendable, gangly and green, you know what I mean. Your malleability is like that of Gumby... who serves especially well as your talisman, owing much to his flexibility.

Taurus (April 20-May 20)— Bad decisions in the past turn to good this week. Rethink your errors and turn them to your advantage. Lucky Attributes: Largeness and Darkness. Excretion happens.

Gemini (May 21-June 20)— Excess caffeine and nicotine add fuel to the fodder. Try to relax, get your papers done, dude, and all will be well. Lucky place: computer center, any one. Lucky command: finger.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)— Something tells Dorcas that you will have another stellar week. Why does this keep happening to you, Cancer? Well, you are simply the best. Better than all the rest.

Leo (July 23-August 22)— Can’t think of a graduation present for your friends? Consider an ant farm. Your jobless, future-less friends will be inspired by the sight of these miniature co-dependent workaholics as they slave away within their plastic habitat. If nothing else, it will remind them of the “good ole” days at their alma mater.

Virgo (August 23-September 22)— There are billions and billions of stars in the galaxy. Lofty ambitions? Build a model rocket. Be sure to use heat-resistant paint, or your Endeavor will never get off the ground. Lucky Plush Collectible.

Libra (September 23-October 21)— Electrolyte imbalances haunt you. Newsflash, there is something which cures all imbalances. It is good for grown-ups too. Your panacea is Pedialyte™ and it can be found at Harris Teeter or for slightly fewer ducats at the Low-Bi.

Scorpio (October 22-November 21)— Problematize the binary opposition of nature/culture. An assemblage of collections of female patrons of the arts may include one or more of the following: snuff boxes, jade statuettes, scrimshaw, taxidermy, bibelots et billet-doux. That is an excellent observation.

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21)— You may already be a winner. Damn Ed McMahon, you are probably not. Damn him again for the mere existence of Star Search. Damn him again for doing life insurance commercials. Lucky Person: NOT Judas Ed McMahonas Iscariot.

Capricorn (December 22-January 19)— Children of the Korn, unite. Corn pone, dollies and -elius are perpetually unlucky. Three Cheers™ to Corn Dawgs, which have survived, as Zac tells Dorcas, despite all the odds. Gotta be proud.

Aquarius (January 20-February 18)— Aquariae, bonjour. This week, look for a disk called Najarian Monkey. Or, look for signs which are posted all over Chambers that make this request. Do this for the sheer pleasure that laughing at these signs brings.

Pisces (February 19-March 20)— Come on down, you’re the next contestant. You will be on the Price is Right©. Be sure not to bet $399 if the person before you has bet $400. This happens too much on the show. Lucky Person: Rod Roddy (he wears those crazy wacky jacket and tie combinations!)

ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, APRIL 21, 1997

Looking for a Fun Job with Great Pay?
- Rainbow Deli, Lake Norman
  Immediate positions available for Wait Staff.
  Call 896-0091 after 10am
- 19 in. color TV/VCR. Excellent condition! Only one year old!
  Call Caroline, Joanna, Debby, or Sally - 6638

Charlotte: 507 Providence Rd. » 333-1003
The Arboretum » 543-8333
Davidson: 202 So. Main St. » 892-0604
Myrtle Beach: Broadway at the Beach » 444-1074

Spotlight shines on ‘Neglected Arts’
By Carrie VAN DEEST Guest Writer

The next best thing to Pilobolus—the Davidson Dance Troupe—will perform for the first time this year Saturday evening, April 26, in Love Auditorium at 8 p.m. The group has termed their show “The Neglected Arts” and will showcase other student performers.

“We are trying to give artists who are not allowed opportunities to perform a chance to share their talents with the campus,” explained Erin Steffensmeier, one of the Troupe’s directors. “A lot of artists on this campus aren’t given outlets to...perform.” The Troupe has an array of poets, musicians, actors, and dancers to contribute to their “Neglected Arts” evening. Stephanie Gray, Vic Brand, Margaret Lumpkin, and Marcus Williams are among the readers featured. Others to perform include Dewey Ervin, Nick Paul, James Berry, Matthew Nixon, Kay Walraven, and Ethan McCutchen. The dancers will perform five of their own works featuring the choreography of Steffensmeier, Jess Robblee, Christina Thomas, and Carrie Van Deest. The troupe can sympathize with artists who have difficulty finding outlets for artistic expression. Besides finding Davidson students who have the time to devote to dance and choreography, the group has struggled to find room to rehearse and perform. The group shares the dance studio in the Baker facility with aerobics, Dahn Hak, and fencing. Love Auditorium requires the installation of a taped-down surface before dance is possible, and Hodson Hall is often booked for music and theatre performances. It is under the assumption that others on the campus must be feeling the same frustrations that the troupe has coordinated this night of “Neglected Arts.”

Chortle from page 10

The one-act series ended with what I thought was the play that hit the apex of humor. Ben Summers directed A Marriage Proposal and had audiences teary-eyed with laughter before the night was over. The play treats us to the bumbling efforts of Jonathan Loman’s attempts to ask for the hand of Natalie, the daughter of a frightfully eccentric landowner. James Berry, as Jonathan, dominated with his physical humor, while the hysterical facial and verbal expressions of Max Nelson, as Natalie’s worked-up father, kept the laughs rolling. Kim Lichtenwalter did a great job in her first theatrical role at Davidson as the sometimes swooning, sometimes gunning Natalie. Summers directorally drew the audience in with his exploitation of slapstick humor and command of a quick tempo. Proposal was an excellent, and appropriately hilarious, cap to a great series of one-acts. Congratulations to all the directors and actors for a successful season.

Gravity poses no challenge to a young KAptain at the KAmrnival.

Anna Judy

Discover the Journalism. Write! Edit! Call -2148

At the Clubs — Music in two hours or less —
COMPILED BY CLAY COFER

Monday, Apr. 21
Cat’s Cradle (Carrboro/Chapel Hill): Better than Ezra w/ Boo Radleys
Double Door: Les Moore, John Alexander, Jim Brock, Rick Blackwell, Charles Hairston, Joe Linsey
Irish Cue (Cornelius): John O’Gorman & Friends
Jack Straw’s: Free Jam w/ Russ Betenbaugh
Rockafellas’ (Columbia, SC): Protein

Tuesday, Apr. 22
Amos’: Bill Hanna & Ziad Jazz Jam
Cat’s Cradle (Carrboro/Chapel Hill): Olivia Tremor Control w/ ALVA
Coyote Joe’s: Vic Rorrer & The No Name Band
Double Door: Americana Night: Mike Harrell, Margaret Kennedy, Doubting Thomas, David Childers, Lenny Federal
Mythos: College night - Techno
Pterodactyl: 80s Dance night
Razzles (Holiday Inn-Airport): Cracker
Rockafellas’ (Columbia SC): Fontaine & Katherine Caine
Tremont: Toasters
Ziggy’s (Winston-Salem): Kira

Wednesday, Apr. 23
Cat’s Cradle: Third World
Comedy Zone: Pinkard & Bowden
Club 2000: College Night Dance
Coyote Joe’s: Vic Rorrer & The No Name Band
Double Door: Lil’ Brian & The Zydeco Travelers
Jack Straw’s: Underwater Fall
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Retro 70s and 80s
Mythos: Deney Terrio & Motion (Dance Fever 97)
Pterodactyl: Anti-Alternative Dance Night (Free admission)
Rainbow Deli: Brothers From Mother acoustic
Razzles (Best Western-Airport): Cracker
Rockafellas’ (Columbia SC): Toasters
Ziggy’s (Winston-Salem): Blue Rags w/ Drifting Through

Thursday, Apr. 24
Baha: Retro 80s Dance night
Jack Straw’s: Straight Up Buzz
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Retro 70s & 80s
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance

Friday, Apr. 25
Baha: Live Reggae
Jack Straw’s: String Cheese Incident
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Salsa/Merengue/Cumbia
Mythos: Dance-techno
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance/Gothic upstairs
The Sound Factory: Third World
Tremont: Candy Pig/Monster

Saturday, Apr. 26
Baha: Dance
Jack Straw’s: The Grapes
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Salsa/Merengue/Cumbia
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance
Tremont: Liquid Sex Decay

Sunday, Apr. 27
Double Door: Les Moore and Friends
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Salsa/Merengue/Cumbia
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance