Warping in the realm of the unconscious all break could not come soon enough for Matthew Hobbie. The physical and
emotional stress of the last couple of weeks had taken their toll. All last week, I got just a few
hours of sleep a night. And Thursday night, the last night before break, I didn’t sleep at all. This lack
of sleep plus a cold made me a very sick boy. After missing my first class on Friday and bobbing
my head through the next two, I stumbled to my room, removed my clothes, and fell into bed. Two hours
later, I woke up sitting in the living room of my apartment, fully clothed. I had locked the door of
my room with the keys inside, and I don’t remember a bit of it. Believe it or not, things could
have been worse — I could have gone to sleep clothed and woken up naked in someone else’s living room!
Normally, if something strange like this happened to me, I would be worried; but I am not, for this was
not the first time. I am incredibly active when I'm unconscious.

Rather than alcohol or drugs, my loss of consciousness is instead always due to sickness or lack of sleep. One
way this activity is seen is in my constant fight with my unconscious self over waking up in the morning.
My freshman year I took my first and only 8:30 class. The night before, I would stay up until about
four — studying calculus — and try to wake up at eight. But it was nearly impossible. I would set
my alarm and wake up late to find that I had turned it off in my sleep. To remedy this
I set my alarm clock across the room. The next day I woke up late once again, since I had
walked across the room during the night and turned off the alarm. I then decided to immobilize the alarm switch
with duct tape and once again set it across the room. I woke up late the next day and the
tape was broken.

Another manifestation of my active unconscious is my tendency to fall asleep and wake up in another place and time
like I did last week. The extreme of this is when the change in time and location occurs in the
time it takes to blink. Liz Sale and I came up with a term for this our sleepless freshman year
— warping. With the sleep-starved Davidson student, warping can occur at any time. I have to admit — among warpers,
I am a champ. One day I blinked reading on my couch in Belk and woke up in my German
AT on the third floor of Chambers. Another time I woke up in a Biology lab. How I got to
those places and what I did along the way, I will never know.

My favorite warping experience was while traveling alone by train between Dresden and Berlin in Germany. I boarded the train
in Dresden, placed my bags in the overhead racks, and sat down. I closed my eyes and when I opened
them I was standing on a train platform in the middle of nowhere (not Berlin) holding all my bags. The
few people on the platform were staring at me along with the conductor who was asking me in German, “What
in the heck are you doing?” I had the next two hours to get my head straight while I waited
for the next train. What I wonder is, what happens in the time between closing my eyes and opening them?
How much do I do in my sleep? How many classes have I attended, how many miles have I driven,
and how many conversations have I had while I was totally unconscious? Am I awake right now?

For those who can relate to my experiences and have even warped yourselves, you know that although it could sometimes
be dangerous, warping is not always a bad thing. For one, it is exciting, and second, if you’re lucky, you'll
wake up in the Union! If you find yourself transported there this week, don’t miss the International Festival, the Sorority
Forum, Club Night, “What's Eating Gilbert Grape,” Jumpin’ Java, Coffeehouse, or the Horror Film Festival showing all next week! Check
your Union Board Calendar for dates and times. I hope to see you there — conscious or not.

The staff: An often forgotten vital part

Davidson College is considered to be a top-notch institution. We have a great faculty. Our students are the best and
brightest. Our administration is first-rate — just look at our current and former presidents. But there is one aspect of
Davidson College that is just as vital and often overlooked. I am referring to the Davidson College staff.

Do you ever pause to wonder just who that person is who mops up Friday's Court beverage off of your
bathroom floor Monday morning? Have you ever considered how much work it takes to set up for the inauguration of
the president of Davidson College? Or, have you ever reflected on why that guy sings aloud while cooking your omelet?
They are the Physical Plant. The people who fix our air conditioners and replace broken windows. They are the laundry.
Those who take our nasty, smelly bundles and return nicely-wrapped, clean clothes. They are the Commons workers. The ones who
work hard to prepare food for more than five hundred people and serve it to you, always making sure you
have everything you want by asking, “What else?” They operate the Union Outpost. You know, those people who deal with
drunken 20-year-olds who ungratefully order their food, pick fights, and mess up the bathroom. They are those in the Union
Café who cook up your MexiBurger and onion rings. They are Building Services. You know, the people who sweep up
after your hall and do their best to prevent mildew from forming on the shower walls. They are the ones
who wax the floors in Chambers and empty the trash. They clean the glass of the street lamps for the
inauguration and mow the lawns. They are the bookstore staff. They sell us our tomes, our paper, and our pens.
They are the Davidson College police, who escort us home late at night and who ensure that the image of
Davidson as a safe place is more fact than myth.

These people provide services that we as students depend and rely upon every day. In some cases, they perform tasks
that some would find revolting. Too many students take these people for granted and do not give them the respect
they deserve. Too often they are criticized rather than thanked. You may gripe about something when you find it is
not done to your satisfaction, but how often do you show your appreciation when it is done right?

The most obvious example to me is Vail Commons. I have dined there ever since my freshman year, and I
have heard all sorts of complaints. I do not think most people realize how well one can actually eat there.
This is a place that tries its best to respond to the wishes of the students. When Eric Sapp voiced
his opinion about the food, they responded. It seems that every year Wanda Braddock has to reiterate that she welcomes
any and all suggestions for new meals or ideas. And it seems that every year there is something new to
try. We now have the sandwich bar, three meals a day on the weekend, the pizza bar, and Baskin Robbins
ice cream. During my freshman year, we started out with chocolate, vanilla, and chocolate-vanilla swirl. Now one can choose any
flavor from mint chocolate chip ice cream to strawberry frozen yogurt. The people who work there all of Davidson work
hard for us: from Irene who slides the Cat Cards, to Gene who will cook you an egg just right,
to Rickey who helps cook up the peach-and-curry chicken.

As far as personal experience goes, another part of the Davidson staff that I would like to recognize is the
janitorial staff. MyFreshman and sophomore years, Johnny Morrison was the man with the mop. Then when I came back from
being abroad, I landed on First Watts and was fortunate enough to receive the daily cleaning services of Georgia Anderson.
Now that I am a senior, I must make sure my shower drain does not clog with hair and that
my hallway is vacuumed. But it’s not only these services which I miss. I also miss their personalities. I miss
chatting with Georgia about life, or joining Johnny in expressing my dislike for the Dallas Cowboys. I wish I could
go into detail about every service these folks provide. But they do things that we do not even know about.
I'm sure I have failed to even mention every staff position at Davidson College. But you know who they are.
They are people, like you and me. They deserve your respect. They are vital in your quest to become a
doctor, a lawyer, or an Anderson Consulting drone.

With President Vagt’s inaugural address on fostering idealism still fresh in my mind, I’ve been wondering recently why Davidson does
not have any organizations committed to peace and social justice. We discuss disease, or solutions to these problems which would
go beyond a few hours of service. Perhaps it is because we are implicitly guilty. The majority of Davidson students
have benefitted from the status quo, as indicated by the mere fact that we are here enjoying an expensive liberal
arts education. To have a medley of service organizations, and even a chapter of Amnesty International, but it disturbs me
that our community has not been actively tackling some of the larger, underlying issues of injustice. With great enthusiasm, we
march out of our ivory tower to feed the hungry, but we do not collectively address the question of why,
in this rich nation of ours, people go hungry in the first place. We are very eager to serve, but
not eager to discuss root causes of poverty and injustice. To challenge the systems of injustice which exist in society,
we must necessarily examine our own position within them. However, it requires more than personal transformation; we must also question
national policy. We must bring our religious and ethical perspectives to bear on national politics and specific issues like the
federal budget. This is another area we seem to be neglecting at Davidson. With all of the active religious groups
and service committees on campus, one would think that discussions about military spending, nuclear weapons stockpiling, and human rights abuses
would proliferate. Yet outside of a few poorly attended speakers and small pockets of concerned individuals, this is not the
case. Are we really as apathetic as we seem? Why is there no campus-wide dialogue about these vitally important issues?

My own exploration of social justice and nonviolent protest has occurred outside of Davidson. Most recently, I attended a workshop
offered by the Fellowship of Reconciliation on nonviolence and community organizing. I was most impressed with the other college students
I met, students who are actively involved in the peace and justice movement. They attend demonstrations, organize with their communities,
and hold forums. Where is that spirit of activism at Davidson? The Chapel Committee, of which I am a member,
will be testing the waters of social justice at Davidson this coming week. We are organizing a national, interfaith fast
sponsored by the Fellowship of Reconciliation which will begin on Thursday, October 24. The Fast for Sanity is being called
in order “to identify with the hunger and malnourishment in our own nation, and throughout the world, caused by the
insanity of war and the enormous military spending that precedes and encourages armed conflict.” Needless to say, this statement is
bold. This is not simply a fast for hunger awareness; after all, everyone agrees that hunger should be eliminated. This
fast is being called so that people will begin to examine national budget priorities from a faith-based point of view.
This raises important questions about the place of the military and other institutionalized forms of violence in our society. Topics
like the culture of militarism have not been broached during my years at Davidson, and it is the climate of
silence about this and other peace and justice issues which leads me to wonder where all the activists have gone.
Hopefully, this fast will be a chance to spark dialogue on our campus about issues which have been conspicuously neglected.

Alenda Lux

Fires (no less. ct a We Vow ‘re wode shall banter eettaad \ Hrs wan Low Unleeeo Clesde te Ho
shee? Dowidson, And ad on foue Liat | Re N en weeFernds Oy Werke Lotze Neigert still lurking on the
information superhighway

Does the name Rob Neigert ring any bells? If not, let me give a quick refresher course: belligerent sexual harasser
(ask any number of women on campus), the perpetrator of threatening phone calls, the knifer that was quickly transferred in
a very hush-hush manner, and that guy who is sending me e-mails! Either he read the article about my breasts,
or I’m working through some very nasty karma. Imagine this: I’m sitting at my computer sipping coffee at 9:08 Thursday
morning and this is the e-mail I get: “So what do your breats (I’m assuming he meant breasts) look like
anyway? Your secret admirer...:)” The message came from a robman@eagle.cc.ukans.edu. And while I wasn’t sure who the sender was, I
am a sporting young woman, and, after I forwarded the message to my boyfriend, I replied. I think I said
something like “36C, firm, high, and wide-set, etc.,” you know, like any number of breasts. By this time, my illustrious
boyfriend is calling all the technological wonders to his aid in order to figure out who the weirdo is that
is e-mailing his girlfriend about her breasts. At a little after five last Thursday afternoon, I received this message: “I
must say, that was an average description. You could go into more detail — your breasts do have nipples, color,
and texture, or am I mistaken? Who am I? Let's just say I knew you one year ago. Oh, and
to ease your worries, I am not fat nor ugly (I was really worried, phew, it’s just Neigert not some
other physically unattractive man). In fact, I am becoming certified by a national gym to become a personal trainer —
I'd rock your world...:)” I guess the use of smiley faces makes it okay to proposition women who have already
expressed their disinterest over e-mail. This is the part of the message that blew even my mind. With that in
mind, it must be good: “In addition, I know what you look like with clothes [sic] on — tell me
what you look like without them, and I’ll do the same for you.” Gross! If I was looking for this
kind of entertainment, I’d be calling singles hotlines for desperate twenty-somethings. Again, this was signed by “A Secret Admirer.” Frankly,
it sounds like he wants to do more than secretly admire. I guess he was hoping for some free e-mail
porn. By this time I was having some extreme e-mail deja-vu; pompous, arrogant, sexually-suggestive e-mailer — it reminded me of
Rob Neigert, and would you believe it, he’s going to University of Kansas and his e-mail address is “robman@eagle.cc.ukans.edu.” I’m
not sure whether to be comforted to know who is sending me the messages or worried because now I know
who he is. I guess my main concern is whether or not by refusing his e-mail advances I will be
next on his hit list. I bet he still has those butterfly knives. Will there be a nice burly young
man to catch the sting of the blade for me? Will his threats and harassments to women everywhere have to
come to fruition before someone realizes that this guy is not your ordinary “I was just drunk and stressed out”
college boy, but someone who is in serious need of mental evaluation?
