OPINIONS - MONDAY, APRIL 14, 1997

Randall Mardus

Is Scholarship Keeping Creativity Down?

Creativity and Learning should be intimate lovers. Correct me if I am wrong, but at Davidson College they seem to
get along as well as an abusive couple. Scholarship, ‘round these parts the nickname of Learning and the husband of
Creativity, often keeps down Creativity, the youngest in a large family who used to use her gifts to escape and
attract attention. I say “used to” because Creativity has become inclusively individual and can no longer attract enough attention to
make her social, at least in the classroom.

So what would happen if this couple were to seek education counseling? The counselor, most likely schooled in the Sensitivities,
all those schools of thought that particularize for posterity, would appeal to Scholarship’s side. The counselor may nod to Creativity’s
side with a comment such as, “Perhaps your thoughts should be just that, cultivate them and maybe in time they
will cross paths with your (in)significant other’s.” Creativity would most likely storm out of the room in disgust crying out
in vain to the taken-hostage Muses of antiquity. Her first marriage with that conglomeration of foundational arts and sciences, what
some of us would call high school, was not much different. But with a new neighborhood, new options, college seemed
to be the awe, lakes sense, doesn’t it? Because it is. If we didn’t see it like that, we would
say when asked what we are up to, “Oh, I’m going to go read some Kundera” or “learn about how
nerves react” or “strengthen the right side of my brain by playing the kazoo.”

These assignments we call “work.” It makes sense, doesn’t it? Because it is. And in some ways, they have, as
she has been able to explore absolutes, relatives, and the inexplicables of life. But must this be the only place
where she can shine? A 25-watt desk lamp in the darkness? In these moments she is best able to get
a feel for herself, not be excited by the possibilities, but the possibilities are shadowed by guidelines and required topics
or subjects. Will she learn nothing? No, that’s not necessarily true, but that is what they are expected to do.
But no matter how well one may have done in the past, one error or misjudgment effectively erases any good
record.

In wake of the recent fatal shooting of Carolyn Sue Boetticher last Tuesday evening by Charlotte-Mecklenburg police officers Don Belz
and Shannon Jordan, yet another outcry has gone up against the police. More people are questioning what they perceive to
be an increase in excessive force by the police. December 29, 1993, Wendy Thompson was shot and killed by Officer
Mark Farmer, and on November 19, 1996, Officer Michael Marlow fatally shot James Willie Cooper. None of the three, Boetticher,
Thompson, or Cooper, were armed; all three were Josh Roberts.

All Cops Don’t Deserve Bad Raps

Police officers have an incredibly difficult and stressful job. They must make split-second decisions in life-or-death matters. They have to
be suspicious of every car they pull over because they never know who awaits them behind the wheel. Police officers
would not be the most loved people regardless of what they did earlier this year. Before jumping to conclusions, one
has to look at the circumstances in which the fatal shootings took place. When Thompson was pulled over, she had
a blood alcohol level of 0.25 percent, three times the legal amount. Officer Marlow shot Cooper because he says Cooper
was reaching into his car and saying, “I have something.” Boetticher was shot after the man who was driving the
car she was in.sped up at a license checkpoint and swerved at Officers Belz and Jordan. The driver, 55-year-old Robert
Lundy, who was black, combined with the Rodney King beating and the cocaine, was not beaten when the officers fired
upon his car. The image of the police in the United States has definitely worsened over the past five or
six years. Maybe these incidents are legitimate reasons to become suspicious of the men in blue—goodness knows they were all
nightmares. But they are only a few isolated events. I have not studied the police very much, but I believe
that the overall reputation of police officers has been tarnished due to the high publicity that is given to all
suspicious encounters between the police and the citizens they are sworn to protect.

Police officers are much like umpires in baseball or referees in any sporting event because they have a relatively thankless
job. When they perform well, people don’t make much of it because of recent happenings. Think about it, when do
you usually interact with them? Unless you are related to one or live next door to one, you probably speak
to them after you get caught trying to drive home in record time or after you’ve suffered a traumatic experience,
such as a burglary or mugging. Thus, they are often associated with negative experiences, and this does not do wonders
for their image. They are not looked upon like heroes as firemen are. How many Davidson students would ever want
to be a police officer? How many would be willing to try to apprehend bank robbers with automatic weapons blazing
as the Los Angeles Police Department officers felt their lives and/or the lives of others to be in danger, and
they reacted? The results of their actions were terrible and have caused great pain for the victims’ families. Those officers
must now live with knowing that they killed another human. No good has come from these incidents for anybody.

I’m not trying to take sides. I was not there. I do not know exactly what happened or what was
going through the minds of the officers or the victims at the time. Neither am I saying that all police
officers are saints, because there are some bad cops out there. But it is not fair to characterize all cops
as bad because of the actions of a few.

So, you say, okay smart guy, what do you have? Well, I’d say unless you’re in a class in which
diagnostic testing is essential, in-class essays should get the axe in humanities courses. Instead, why not a weekly or bi-monthly
two-to-three page “thought” paper that would concentrate on any point taken from class or reading that particularly struck the bright
young student’s mind? Because of such assignments, I can honestly say that I feel that I learned considerably more last
year at the University of Vermont than this year at a deceptively 11th-ranked Davidson College. After graduation, when you’re toasting
it up, Davidson will help you impress people left and right with your knowledge of who said what, how this
is done in perfect form, or why that works the way it does, but wouldn’t you rather be the person
who, after initially agreeing with those views (of which you are, of course, familiar), confronts those ideas and ways with
improvisation and personality while holding hands with Creativity in her beautiful red dress?

Write Now!!! You’re coming up on your last chance to write for The Davidsonian. Whether you're president of the Marshall
Tyler fan club or trying to express your Davidson angst while wearing a red dress ... we want to hear
from you. Macintosh WordPerfect format. Davidsonian office. Submitted by Thursday.
