The Davidsonian

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1997

VOLUME 88, NUMBER 19

507 Concord: residents’ testimony carries great weight

By Matthew Eirich
Associate Editor

Town politics and the needs of the College clashed when the College wanted to house eight students on Concord Road.
And when the dust settled, the testimony of some members of the community carried the day.

By December 1, according to Director of Residence Life Kurt Holmes, his office became aware that there would be a
shortage of rooms for juniors returning from abroad. Holmes asked Director of Physical Plant Bob Collins to begin looking for
alternate housing options for an overflow of eight students. The decision was to place the students at 507 Concord Road,
and by February 9, four students had to leave the house. The students, juniors Dan Creekman, Scott Addison, Brian Peddie,
and John McClane, moved to 109 North Thompson Street. For their opinion on the matter, see last week’s Davidsonian, page
9.

The Process

The students were forced to leave because of a town ordinance which bars more than four unrelated individuals from living
in the same house. The College moved the students into the house before obtaining a variance on the ordinance. The
College contacted Town Planner Timothy J. Keane to ask for application materials for a Special Use Permit which would allow
eight students to live in the house. Keane says the College contacted his office shortly after January 1. Collins says
it was sometime in December before Christmas. The process of presenting a special use permit to the Board of Adjustment
takes approximately one month from initial contact to vote, says Keane.

According to Holmes, RLO did not know if there would be an overflow and, if so, how many. This hindered
any move on the College's part, and combined with the Christmas break made it nearly impossible to convene the Board
of Adjustment before January 11 when students returned. The finished application was returned to Town Hall on January 13. On
January 30, the Board of Adjustment convened to consider the College’s application. The Board of Adjustment is a panel of
five non-elected town residents who are appointed by the Town Council. The members are: Norman Richards, William Morrison, Bill Ward
(Chairman), Don Howie, and Mike Mittelman. In a 3-2 vote, the Board of Adjustment rejected the College’s application.

See 507 page 4

SGA chancellor and treasurer named

By Ann Culp
News Editor

Sophomore Ed Winant will fill the newly created position of SGA Treasurer and freshman Joslyn Ogden will become the new
Chancellor, replacing sophomore Lee Burnett. The appointments were chosen by SGA President Buster Burk and Vice President Ann Harriot Fisher
and are expected to be approved by the Senate on Tuesday.

The Chancellor serves as Parliamentarian and is responsible for setting the agenda. The position of Treasurer was created from activities
the Chancellor used to do. He will maintain all financial records and be a member of the Activities Tax Council.
Both Treasurer and Chancellor are non-voting members of the Senate with full floor privileges and are full members of the
Student Executive Council.

“The Chancellor will listen to ideas and look for loopholes. It’s a lot of detail work,” says Ogden.

The SGA meeting for last Tuesday was cancelled as new officials learned their roles. “It is a precedent to take
a week off,” says Burk. “Neither the President, Vice President, nor Chancellor are ready to jump into it yet. We’ll
be ready next week.”I've been appointing committee and council chairs, trying to get down parliamentary procedure, and formulating what the
year might look like. Starting Tuesday, though, we are going to be going full force.” Ogden and Winant are ready
to begin their positions. “I want to serve the administration above and beyond what they ask for to exceed their
expectations,” says Ogden. “I’d also like to be the catalyst for accomplishing tangible things.” “I’m really excited about working with
Buster," says Winant. "He seems like a thorough leader and a good voice for the students.” “I am really enthusiastic
about our team. I have a whole lot of faith in Ann Harriot, Joslyn, and Ed,” says Burk.

SWEET VICTORY
Swim team members break out Dr. Smooth to celebrate their Southern States title.
Will Bradshaw

By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

Teams typically celebrate a championship by showering themselves in champagne, but the men’s and women’s swimming and diving teams aren’t
typical. Anybody who watched them dance, cheer, and swim their way through the Southern States championships would notice that there
is something special about this team. So it really wasn’t a surprise when they passed on the bubbly and broke
out a couple liters of Dr. Smooth for their victory bath after claiming both titles on Saturday night.

“If all you guys who are reading this paper could hear the emotion in the locker rooms right now, it’s
one of the things I love about Davidson,” senior Bo Craig said immediately following his final meet as a Wildcat.
“It’s a small school, and yet we can do something as incredible as this.” The men led throughout the meet,
adding to their lead in each of the three nights, but the women had to vault over Louisville, Evansville, and
Georgia Southern to take their first Southern States title.

see Clean Sweep on page 16

Trustees making some residence buildings co-ed

By ANN CULP
News Editor

Women will be entering Belk as residents for the first time this fall when the building goes co-ed. JC, MLK,
and Race

OPINIONS 8
Shape Up for Spring
ARTS

The Trustee Committee voted to approve co-educational residence buildings for next year when they met recently. Little and Cannon Dorms
will remain single-sex with one-half being freshmen and the other half upperclassmen. Due to fixed furniture, Richardson will house only
first-year students. There were increased problems with housing for freshmen this year when 18 women lived in triples while rooms
remained empty on male halls.

“We hope to be very clear that we will try to pair people where they want,” says Residence Life Director
Kurt Holmes. “Housing for entering freshmen is going to be a real gamble, though. Residence Life will have to look
at another level of selection when pairing roommates.”

In an RLO survey in the fall, 65% of 360 respondents said they would have liked to live in co-ed
buildings.

Moving Day CK page 4

SPORTS
CROSSWORD........006.-+: 6
First Class Mail
EDITORIAL .:-..:000ss0see-0 7
U.S. Postage Paid
OPINIONS...0.....sesss000000 8
Permit #1
ARTS & LIVING.......... 10
Davidson, NC 28036

“We couldn’t make this public until we ran it by the Trustees,” says Holmes. “We’ve had to do student surveying
in a hypothetical format.” While RLO continues to work out the details of how to divide Belk, potential partitions would
be the only physical changes to any buildings.

“Communities are better when peers act on a brother-sister level rather than ‘us and them.’ Damage reports are lower in
co-ed buildings. But most importantly, the student cry is that we at least attempt this,” says Holmes.
