THE DAVIDSONIAN

Male wet t-shirt contest gives an alternative to Self-selection

By JEFFERY CROMARTIE
Staff Writer

Among the usual wild, drunken pledges running around getting to know firsthand what hypothermia is all about, something truly amusing
happened on the Court. Under the guidance of independent leader Matthew Hobbie, the Union Outpost held the first annual male
wet t-shirt contest. A truly fine stock of hearty Davidson males were baptized by the Bacchian spirits and began a
mesmerizing sequence of table and floor dancing.

A few of the dancers chose to tease the front row packed full of howling ladies. Zhenya Arutyanyan remarked, “It
was a good alternative to Self-Selection. The audience had just as much emotion as the people participating in house events.”
The roaring crowd response was judged by a group of peers, and first, second, and third place prizes were distributed.
Sophomore John Paulus, affectionately known as Pope, seized the third place prize with his charming looks and his graceful style
of floor swimming without the aid of music. Dan Wingate employed his hulking deltoids in combination with a dynamic flexing
pattern which pleased the crowd, earning him second place. The winner of Friday night’s contest decided to escalate matters by
turning the contest into a wet underwear contest. Matt Staton showed off his killer physique. Anna Judy Austin Rios let
it all loose as he performed the classic swinging gonad shuffle. Ladies roared their approval and sent unbridled excitement gushing
through the room. Austin dedicated his performance to his dear mother.

Instead of running around naked with mindless pledges simply having fun and getting sick, the men’s stunning dance raised a
healthy sum to be donated to the Ada Jenkins Center. The judges, the dancers, and the crowd provided independents with
a flavorful option away from the Court. Judge Megan Rolenc remarked, “Although I wish the event had lasted a little
longer, it was certainly a success which attracted a wide variety of people. Next year we hope to have more
dancers and some added variation in the routines.” After Will Bradshaw’s performance, he remarked, “I am very happy that I
have both lap and table danced in the Union Outpost. The whole event was a lot of fun, and I
salute Matthew Hobbie and the rest of the independent senators that made the event happen. The Ada Jenkins Center is
an important part of the community, and this event is a really fun way to support it.”

Flutist performs in Hodson Hall

By Steve DUNCAN
Guest Writer

Last Thursday, January 16th, the Davidson College music department presented a faculty recital featuring flutist Elizabeth Holler Ransom, a flute
instructor at Davidson and faculty member at the Community Music School of the North Carolina School of the Arts. In
the intimate performance atmosphere of Hodson Hall, Ransom and pianist Margaret Cornwell impressed a small audience with a program of
works from the 18th through the 20th centuries. The recital began with a flute sonata by C. P. E. Bach.
Ransom coursed through the light and delicately lilting melodies with an ease and grace belying the technical difficulty of this
work. Next came a programmatic workby Albert Roussel, Joueurs de flûte, showcasing Ransom’s versatility of expression in four contrasting movements,
each a musical depiction of a legendary or mythical flutist. Following them were works by 20th-century composers Aaron Copland and
Eugene Bozza. Ransom concluded the evening with a stimulating rendition of Sergei Prokofiev’s Sonata for Flute and Piano, Op. 94,
playing through the four movements with a frivolity and mirth befitting the exuberance of this work. Elizabeth Holler Ransom has
received international acclaim as a soloist and chamber musician, having performed in Germany, Italy, France, Switzerland, and the United States.
Her collaboration with pianist Margaret Cornwell, also on staff at the North Carolina School of the Arts in Winston-Salem, has
resulted in a musical symbiosis, to the credit of the sensitive and insightful playing of both performers as expressed in
the brilliant recital of January 16th.

ATTENTION SOPHOMORES

Applications are now being distributed for the Edward Crosland Stuart Scholarship Program. Stuart Scholars receive grants of $10,000 for the
junior year, renewable for the senior year, plus funding for an internship during the summer between the junior and senior
years. Pick up your application from Ms. Brenda King in Chambers 111. Completed applications are due back in that office
no later than Friday, January 24.

ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1997

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

12:30 a.m. - 9:30 p.m. Jumpin’ Java will get you jumping in the Outpost
8 p.m. Russian Club will be meeting to view a film in the 900 Room
8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m. Jumpin’ Java means good coffee and good conversation in the Outpost
8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. Twenty-one Year Old Night is for all of the cool people in the 900 Room
10:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

WEDNESDAY

Smoke will be showing in the 900 Room 9 p.m.
Crop Lunch serves you in the 900 Room 11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m.
11:15 a.m.

FRIDAY

Coffeehouse gets you through one last day 8:15 a.m.
Smoke will be playing again for those who missed it the first time or want to see it again in
the 900 Room 10 p.m.
80s Party elicits childhood memories and questionable music in the 900 Room 10 p.m. - midnight.

Movies from page 10

Love shows that she has some acting ability, but her role did not require her to show a great degree
of range or subtlety. Edward Norton plays Flynt’s attorney and turns in a good performance. My problem with the movie
was that the legal and intellectual questions on pornography have already been decided by the courts and by individuals as
they entered the theater. This made the movie less provocative and interesting. Also, although the movie purports to be neutral
in telling the story, it clearly portrays Flynt as a hero and his opponents (Jerry Falwell, Charles Keating) as hypocrites.
While his opponents may have been hypocrites and wrong, that does not mean Flynt was not a shrewd businessman, more
concerned with his profit than the First Amendment. Flynt is no hero.
