Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN ELSEWHERE MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1997

Washington prepares for inauguration

By Naresh Nagella
Staff Writer

The atmosphere finally seems to be getting cooler in Washington. Not only is it expected to be about 30 degrees during the inauguration of President Bill Clinton’s second term, but the partisan heat from Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich’s ethics problems seems to have stopped. The House Democratic Leadership agreed to support the Ethics Committee’s punishment of Gingrich to rest at a $300,000 fine and official reprimand. They will not seek further charges. Under House Republican rules, the recently re-elected speaker will not have to lose his position. He will be the first Republican Speaker of the House to serve two terms since 1923.

Meanwhile, President Clinton will be sworn into office at noon by Chief Justice William Rehnquist. After, he will give his inaugural address, which looks to be one that will follow his campaign themes of seeking a “vital center” and strong bipartisanship to govern. The day will end with a total of 12 official inaugural balls that the President plans to attend.

In other political news, the cost of last year’s campaign ended up costing $21 a voter (or $2 billion in total), making 1996 the costliest political year ever. While the figure might sound low, only 7% of voting Americans actually contribute to political campaigns. Congress plans to pass some sort of campaign finance reform in the upcoming session.

Schicksalsgemeinschaft making Russians angry

By Naresh Nagella
Staff Writer

The word means “community of shared destiny” in German, but it has the Russians asking “Why?!” Germans use the word to describe why they, America, and other nations are joined together in NATO, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. NATO was originally designed to stop and contain Communist expansion inside the former Iron Curtain. However, since the end of the Cold War many of its leaders feel that it has outgrown that purpose. It currently works on other projects, such as peacekeeping in Bosnia.

That is why NATO, under the directive of President Clinton, will seek to expand their membership to Poland, Hungary, and the Czech Republic. All three countries, after four decades of Communist rule, seem to have achieved the necessary democratic processes and economic stability needed to join.

The Russians, however, are very upset at the enlarging of an organization aimed originally to contain its activities and authority. President Boris Yeltsin has expressed vigorous opposition to the plan. He says it is an unnecessary provocation, threat, and limit to Russian interests. Former President Mikhail Gorbachev says it might rekindle the Cold War.

Some Americans do not see the value in NATO expansion, either. Michael Mandelbaum of the Council on Foreign Relations believes taking the countries in is unnecessary in this time of peace. He says economic and political cooperation are needed to help revive the Russian economy. He thinks it might hurt Russia’s progress towards democracy and not help fight any real risk. Finally, he says that if Russia does slip back into authoritarianism, the three countries could then be inducted into NATO to help protect its Eastern flank.

Supporters, like former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, say that Western nations will be too slow or too scared to induct the countries if Russia does slip back into authoritarianism. He also cites that the leaders of Poland, Hungary, and the Czech Republic probably know what is more of a real threat to their interests rather than foreign dissenters.

The timetable for expansion will last about two more years and the actual military technicalities of the “new” NATO will not be seen for much later. However, NATO’s current “common destiny” will continue to anger Russian leaders.

- Information from the St. Petersburg Times, New York Times, and Jack R. Payton’s international column were used for this synopsis.

---

SIGNE - PHILADELPHIA DAILY NEWSHe SPOTERMAN ENTERPRISES: mit pOgpolke-sm a.com Cy Aauidsanian Beyond Davidson

International ...

Boris Yeltsin hospitalized for pneumonia

Russian president Boris Yeltsin returned to the hospital last week when he began suffering from signs of pneumonia. Yeltsin underwent heart-bypass surgery just two months ago. His political opponents, including former USSR president Mikhail Gorbachev, have complained vocally that Yeltsin’s poor health has kept him from performing his duties as president.

Belgian police raid homes in child pornography operation

Belgian police, acting on information and tips received from Great Britain and France, searched 60 homes for child pornography in and around Brussels last week. Last August, two young girls were rescued from a convicted rapist's self-made “dungeon” in Brussels. Many believe last week’s coordinated operation to be a response by police to heavy criticism which stemmed from the August incident.

Zaire’s president returns to France

Zaire’s president Mobutu Sese Seko returned to France last week, only a month after being called to Zaire from his French villa in order to handle a rebel insurgency. Mobutu had been living in France from August until mid-December. Zaire’s president suffers from cancer and receives medical treatment in France, where he owns a home.

National ...

Bill Cosby’s son shot to death

Actor Bill Cosby’s son Ennis Cosby was shot to death last Thursday along the roadside in the Santa Monica Mountains. Police speculate that Ennis Cosby, a 27-year-old doctoral student, was attempting to change a flat tire on his Mercedes-Benz convertible when he was murdered. Police say he was apparently the victim of a random attack.

Texas county adopts a new greeting and drops “hello”

Kleberg County, a small ranching town in Texas, is trying to do away with the greeting “hello”. County Commissioners there unanimously passed a resolution creating a new county greeting, “heaven-o”. Proponents of the measure say the “hell” in “hello” has a negative meaning and should be replaced by “heaven”. Last Thursday, county employees answered all phones using the “heaven-o” greeting.

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Help along
5 Film star
10 Shopping event
14 Retreat
15 Cut closely
16 At any time
17 Injure
18 Satisfies
19 Blood vessel
20 Office gadget
22 Certain gear
24 Succinct
26 Food container
27 Trounce
30 Spuds
35 Marsh plants
36 Watch face
37 Home for bees
38 Special bank account letters
39 Had confidence in
42 Civil War general
43 Roman money
45 Son of Seth
46 Change texts
48 Abated
50 “The Raven” poet
52 Anesthetic
54 Money in Iran
57 Move to another
62 Indigent
63 Flower essence
65 Roman fiddler
66 Against
67 Tennis score
68 Ready for publication
69 Young person
70 Fix in place
71 Claret and ...

DOWN
1 Guns, etc.
2 Ship
3 English author
4 State as true
5 Burns
6 Make lace
7 Atop
8 Certain fraction
9 Declare
10 Fish-eating bird
11 Smallest amount
12 By way of
13 Chapter
21 Smallest amount
23 By way of
25 Chapter
27 Military practice
28 Ghostly
29 Dreads
31 Food for dobbin
32 Covain vessel
33 Happening
34 Planter's need
36 Heap of sand
40 Deserter
41 Old-fashioned
44 Common pain reliever
47 Sailor
49 Period of time
50 Apportioned
53 Vestige
54 Fight
55 Best of class
56 Ballot
57 Plant leg
59 Give up, as land
60 Dry
61 Large number
64 Vat