SPORTS 13 MONDAY, MARCH 24, 1997

Kruse’s Cubby: Feedback fodder
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

I seem to have garnered a reputation as a lightning rod for controversy. People often don’t like what I write
and sometimes they don’t like what I don’t write. For example, much was made of last week’s section. I received
a handful of voice mails — some more civil than others — and was confronted by a representative from the
women’s tennis team. They were all in response to what they thought was insufficient coverage of certain sports.

That’s OK though. It’s more than OK, actually. I welcome any feedback, good or bad. It shows me that people
are reading and that people care. But I know I’m not going to please all of the people all of
the time. That’s not my goal: I strive to write and edit to the best of my ability. By the
time I graduate in two years (hopefully), I want this section to be the best small college weekly sports page
in the country. And I really think we’re on our way.

Will and I have been partners in crime for a year and a half now. I feel we have started
something special. But Will is stepping down next fall. Aaron Dunham will take his place. Aaron and I and our
staff will continue to do what we think is necessary to reach our ultimate goal. That’s not to say there
won’t be some subtle — and some not so subtle — changes in procedure. So consider the following a miniature
mission statement written a few months in advance.

1. Our resources are limited. It is impressive that Davidson can fund any Division I teams at all, but truly
amazing that it fields more than most gargantuan state schools. Universities across the country are, due to budget constraints, discontinuing
non-revenue sports such as wrestling or golf. Davidson, so far, has not. Believe me, I’d love to cover everything. But
to do so, we'd need unlimited space and a sprawling corps of staffers, two things we most definitely don’t have.
We must, therefore, set priorities.

2. Basketball, soccer, and football will, more often than not, receive more coverage than other sports. Like it or not,
these are the biggies, the crowd-grabbers, the money-makers. Not everybody cares about them, but more people do than, say, field
hockey or lacrosse.

see Mission on page 14

Lacrosse finds winning ways on the road
By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

After a string of games marked by inconsistent play, the women’s lacrosse team (1-3) traveled to Maryland on Saturday and
drubbed Columbia University, 17-7, for their first win of the season.

“It was a close game in the beginning, and what we did to them in the second half is what
other teams have been doing to us,” coach Mary Schwartz said. “We have the skills, the form, the technique. Now
we have to work on how to win, and that is hard to teach. It has to come from them
(the players).”

Davidson jumped out to a two-goal lead, but then fell behind by one. That led to a barrage of Wildcat
goals and an 8-3 lead, but Columbia closed the first half with two unanswered tallies.

“When we got up by so many, I think we relaxed,” goalie Lisa Benjamin said. “We realized you can’t do
that in lacrosse. You have to be intense the whole game or you won’t win. That’s what made the difference.”

In the second half, Columbia never had a chance. Davidson poured in nine goals compared to Columbia’s two, and Benjamin,
who stopped 11 first half shots, only had to turn back three attempts in the second frame due to Davidson’s
improved defense.

“The first three games were frustrating, because we’re a better team than that,” Benjamin said. “We didn’t play to our
potential, but we showed that we really can do it on Saturday. Hopefully we’ll build from here and get better
and better.”

The team opened their official match season Feb. 28 with a home game against Vanderbilt. The Commodores escaped with a
9-5 victory. Villanova rolled into town on Mar. 5 and handled the Wildcats, 21-4. After the Villanova game, the team
had...a few days off, and when they returned Fleck says they made a pact with each other to help increase
their on-field intensity. “We’re having a hard time (learning to work as a unit consistently). We’re working at it, but
it’s taking a while to get to that point,” see Road Win on page 15

By Dante Motz
Staff Writer

Despite a strong outing from senior hurler Jonathan Coulombe Sunday, the baseball team dropped the rubber game of a weekend
series against perennial regional power Georgia Southern, 5-4. Coulombe, who threw over 150 pitches, yielded just three earned runs in
his complete game effort. He also struck out nine, while walking just two.

“Jonathan pitched a great game for us today,” said Davidson head coach Dick Cooke. “He had command of all of
his pitches and he kept the ball low.”

The Wildcats were trailing 3-2 before Jeff Coker smashed a one-out double in the eighth. Following an Anderson Marvin ground-out,
Brian Penny cracked his first home run of the season, giving Davidson (10-19) a 4-3 lead. But the Eagles (16-14)
would respond. In the ninth, Antoine Moran singled home the tying run and Matt Meadows followed with a game-winning base
hit to right. Georgia Southern closer Tod Lee struck out the side in the bottom half of the ninth, sealing
the victory for the Eagles.

“Georgia Southern is a great team,” explained Cooke. “They have three pitchers (including Lee) who will be drafted very high
in the draft. They have a chance to make a lot of things happen this season.”

On Saturday, the Eagles opened the series with an 18-5 rout. Moran, Steve Walson, and Jaime Olvey led the Eagle
onslaught with three hits apiece. The Wildcats evened the series behind the solid pitching performance from freshman Eric Bowers. In
Davidson’s 4-3 win, Bowers yielded three hits in just over five innings, and struck out six. Gus Quattlebaum again led
Davidson offensively, hitting his 10th home run of the season, while picking up three runs batted in.

On Tuesday, the Wildcats battled back to defeat cross-rival UNC Charlotte, 12-9. But Wake Forest handed the Wildcats a 22-3
drubbing on Thursday to give Davidson a 2-3 mark for the week.

“Obviously, we would have liked to have won that third game against Georgia Southern,” said Cooke. “But we have to
put things in perspective and realize that we played very well this weekend.

“Right now things are improving. Our pitching is still inconsistent but we’re giving guys experience and we continue to play
pretty good defensively. We just need to put it all together.”

Will Bradshaw

Golf battles tough competition and academic schedule

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

The golf team continues to face the stiffest competition in school history. And while a 19th place finish at the
24-team East Carolina Invitational last week in Greenville is nothing to cheer about, the hope is that the challenging docket
will pay dividends down the road.

“The competition is the best we’ve ever been up against,” coach Joe Mark said yesterday, referring to an ECU field
that featured powerhouses such as Eastern Kentucky, Michigan St., Maryland, Virginia Tech, and James Madison.

That isn’t the only opposition for the golfers, though, who are forced to continually battle Davidson’s stringent classroom requirements and
uncompromising professors. Because golf courses cannot host college tourneys on weekends, most matches for the Wildcats happen in Monday-Tuesday or
Thursday-Friday formats. So for the second straight week, the golfers were forced to play without their regular five-man lineup.

Jason Lina paced the Wildcats at ECU, shooting a three-round total of 223. Jason Carlock followed with a 224 and
Daniel Tedrick added a 234. David Alexander and Alby Toto rounded out Davidson’s roster. The squad wraps up its regular
season April 6-8 at Buies Creek, N.C., and travels to Greensboro April 13-15 for the Southern Conference tournament.

“We’re not playing consistently right now, unfortunately,” said Mark. “But maybe we can get that way before the conference championships.”
