4. THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS _ TUESDAY, AUGUST 26, 1997

Top Story from page 1

increase Davidson’s diversity through a larger applicant pool. “Our challenge is going to be to repeat this in the coming
year,” Cable said. And the students are as numerous as they are rigorous and diverse. Residence Life Office numbers peaked
at 486 early in the summer which would have created 46 triples (138 students in triples). It is normal for
numbers to drop slightly over the summer, and for the first time RLO staff looked forward to that decrease. Ultimately,
although 440 was originally targeted, 476 students became the Class of 2001.

Housing all students became easier after ROTC moved from Basement Belk to Johnston Gym. A capital project was created to
raise $100,000 for the renovated rooms, and the physical plant finished work just as freshmen were ready to arrive. RLO
will leave its present location for what will be Basement West so that 12 bed spaces can be opened by
January. At that time, 153 students are scheduled to return from experiences abroad. Cable attributes increased class size to the
large applicant pool. Davidson accepted the common application for the first time this year, of which 20 percent of its
applicants took advantage. The College also created a second early decision option this year.

Early Decision I applications were due Jan. 1 with notification by Feb. 1. Although it was still binding, it gave
students who missed the Nov. 1 Early Decision I deadline a little more time to apply. Now that Admissions and
Financial Aid have finished their job for the Class of 2001, they are beginning to prepare for 2002. Dean Cable
only hopes that the freshman class “come and engage in this community as they appeared to be able to in
their applications.”

“There are not just great students here,” Dean of Students Tom Shandley said. “There are amazing students here.”

Financial Aid
- 165 members of the entering class received need-based financial aid (35%); average award was $13,412
- 72 members of the entering class received some merit-based assistance (15%); average award was $10,256
- 240 students of the entering class received need-based, merit-based or athletic-based financial assistance (51%); average merit-based award was $7,540

Upperclassmen
By JESSICA GOODSON
News Editor

In time-honored fashion, the class of 2001 has been committed to the traditional Davidson welcome: Freshman Orientation. Contrary to popular
belief, freshmen often emerge feeling as if they’ve all been to summer camp rather than being oriented to the lifestyle
of a college student. So their elder schoolmates offer them invaluable advice that may only be learned through veteran experience.

“Don’t send your good clothes to the laundry,” junior Jenny Nolan advises regarding the appropriate use of Davidson’s auxiliary services.
Only high-endurance clothes, that resist shrinking and don’t mind a little extra starch should be sent into the capable hands
of our laundry service.

Take advantage of campus resources and pay attention to the union calendar of events. Although freshmen are inundated with information
their first five days at Davidson, “they should definitely read the Wildcat Handbook cover to cover,” senior Melissa Richter recommends.
Senior Jason Hamrick strongly suggests that freshmen “never say ‘I don’t have time’” to have fun or engage in extracurriculars.
“Get out,” and don’t obsess over academics.

Pacing yourself and doing everything in moderation is essential.

A pot of gold? Diversity at Davidson
By ANN CULP
Staff Writer

Diversity. It has become a kind of catchword in Davidson lingo, seemingly as tangible as the pot of gold at
the end of the rainbow.

News analysis — Director of Residence LifeKurt Holmes says the school has reached a sort of “critical mass” so he
can cluster minority students together naturally. Assistant Dean for International Student Programs Ruth Pittard asserts that the 25 international students
are a strong group of people who will make a significant presence at Davidson. Assistant Dean of Minority Student Affairs
Ernest Jeffries says this group is so diverse that we will see a wide variety of interests among it. “In
the past, we’ve tried to put minority students in clusters dispersed around campus,” Holmes said. “We know that just because
one is an international student or racial ethnic doesn’t make you automatic friends, but we’ve had requests over past years
that we at least put those students in some proximity.” This year, that clustering occurred more naturally than previous years
due to a larger number of minority students. “The International Students Association is an organization which depends on many people,”
Pittard said. “The more people come in, the healthier the organization is and that means more programming for the entire
campus. The group that is here is one of the strongest. For Davidson students, it is a way to travel
without leaving the country.”

The new students have many expectations and concerns, though. “They would like minority representation in all school activities and they
are worried about the lack of African American faculty,” Jeffries said. “They would like social outlets beyond Patterson Court. They
ask, ‘Will I have to give up my cultural identity to fit in at Davidson?’ And, similar to most Davidson
students, they are also worried about time management.” Most significant within the African American freshmen is the increase in the
number of men, now 21, and a general interest in a variety of activities. “I think this class was just
a reflection of what Davidson looks for in a student in all aspects,” Jeffries said.

Davidson also prepared for better building access for physically handicapped people. RLO added ramps to Richardson and Belk dorms and
made various room renovations to accommodate motorized carts and wheelchairs. Pittard remembers a time when creating diversity at Davidson was
much more difficult. “About six years ago, the drop-off in international students was substantial,” she said. “Most people leave because
of Davidson’s small size, isolation, and lack of transportation.” As international and minority students’ voices become louder, their concerns can
be better heard and a stronger sense of community established. With the significant number of these students, Davidson doesn’t appear
as small or isolated. The pot of gold at the end of the rainbow is just as intangible, but diversity
doesn’t have to be only a catch-word at Davidson.

Class of 2001 data was provided by the Admissions Office.

Don’t check your post office box every day, and limit time spent online. E-mail is an addiction. One can only
stand the disappointment of “no new messages” for so long.

WELCOME

We’re excited about another year and hope you are too. Feel free to come by anytime, Chambers 102.
-Dean of Students

Finally, “don’t be intimidated by freshman peacocking,” senior Liz Sale says. Don’t panic when you realize that you are one
of the hundred students who was not in the top 10% of his class in high school, that you did
not graduate from the Space Academy, or that you were not the National Horse Show champion at New York City’s
Madison Square Garden.

Career Services invites the Class of ’98 to the Senior Class Meeting
Tuesday, August 26
7:00 p.m.
Vail Commons
