THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1997

Ah, the smell of freshly sharpened pencils... the jockeying for position to get that certain class... the enormous sticker price of books... the beginning of the school year. One might ask why someone would write an article about the nuances of the start of school when the semester is winding down. Well, the fact is, the semester is a mere two weeks old for us. This is how we find ourselves in Würzburg, Germany: deciding if Tae Kwan Do counts as a PE credit, sitting through a class that could be either math or psychology, and deciding whether we should take that weekend trip to Paris or to Prague.

We have been in Germany since August 31 and have enjoyed every minute of our time here since. During the month of September, we lived with host families in the tiny, north German towns of Lübbecke, Rahden, and Frotheim, affectionately known as the Alt Kreis Minden-Lübbecke.

OPINIONS
Adam Drudge and David Kearfott
Würzburg Rocks

During this time we were incorporated into and familiarized with the intricate workings of German families and society. We took a few group trips and had class once a week, but other than that, we were left to our own devices. We cannot speak for everyone, but personally, we loved our families. In fact, we are traveling back northward to spend New Year’s with them. We could fill a whole book about stories from our respective families, but suffice it to say that the Rutings and the Hankes will never be forgotten.

The first of October was a gray and rainy day that adequately reflected our emotions as we said teary goodbyes to our families and boarded the bus for the five-hour trip to our new home in Würzburg. A fresh world awaited us in our new city, but we were content to reflect upon the joy and comfort that our home stay had provided us with. Finally, WÜRZBURG! The hopes, dreams, and fears that had built up over the past year immediately sprang to the forefront of our racing minds. The images of bureaucracy, entrance exams, food, and directions permeated our every thought. Well, eventually we got our lives in order after much trial and error and found everything we needed, except for ice and Dr. Pepper.

October was spent meeting new people and studying hours every day for the big exam that was looming at the end of the month. We have met a potpourri of wonderful people here who run the gamut from salsy, Spanish señoritas to flirtatious, French cassanovas. Keeping up with these people socially has been a formidable task. A typical day for us includes waking up a good hour and a half before class begins. We scarf down a fresh croissant, down some OJ, grab our umbrellas (it rains every day), put on our hiking gear, and head “up the hill.” But, THIS IS A HILL! The hill from Sophomore Nation to Chambers looks like a speed bump compared to this monster. It takes about 30 minutes to walk, although lazy people prefer public transportation.

So we go to class with 120 of our best German friends and try hard to understand why that professor is applying the Taylor series to determine the vector norm, all in German, of course. Writing e-mail on the 20 computers available to 17,000 students sometimes presents mental and sometimes physical hardships. Then we layer up to walk back down the hill to our beloved abode.

Our dorm, the infamous Internationales-Haus, can best be described as Spartan living. The Davidson group is scattered, smothered, and covered (by the way, we miss the Waffle House) throughout five floors of the nine-story edifice. Each floor consists of 15 co-eds, one kitchen, one shower, two toilets, and loads of love. We will never, ever criticize Davidson facilities again. For those of you who think that a coed hall is a tropical paradise, just remember, you are going to have to ask yourselves who that person is in the stall next to you. These close quarters, however, serve as a melting pot for the many nationalities represented on each floor.

This past week I have been reading a lot about Davidson traditions, specifically, about Self-Selection. All this talk about tradition has me thinking about some of my own Davidson traditions. Not all of “my” traditions are unique to me — though I suspect that my habit of wearing fake tattoos to Independent formals has not become a trend — and my most important tradition is shared by numerous Davidson graduates as well as a small but enthusiastic collection of current students.

That tradition is my membership in the Philanthropic Literary Society. In June, the Society (affectionately known as Phi) will turn 160, a birthday which represents the survival of one of the oldest institutions on campus. Phi, like the Eumenean Society, was at one time one of the few, if not only centers of social and academic activity on the Davidson College campus. Membership in the society was highly prized, and competition between the two societies was fierce. The presence of the Societies on campus has declined over the years, but they have not disappeared altogether. The Philanthropic Society has grown and changed alongside the College, though sometimes at a slightly slower pace; for example, the Society resisted admitting women as members until 1983. However, the goals of the Society and its members — academic excellence, the development of oratorical skills, and fellowship — have not changed.

I am proud to be a member of the Philanthropic Society; when I climb the steps of Phi Hall, the evening’s reading clutched in my hand, I am conscious of those who have gone before me, the debates which resounded from the balcony, and the discussions which occurred within the Hall itself. As I ascend the stage to take my place to the right of the President, and open the elderly dictionary to find the Word of the Day,I watch the members amble in, and I am happy that the statesmen which regard us from their frames still have a society to admire. I am pleased that there are people at Davidson that gladly sacrifice an hour out of their precious Sunday evening study time to gather in the Hall and take part in a variety of activities, including reading selected pieces of literature to their fellows, games of Spontaneous Story, and sometimes the odd game of Charades. These people also serve as a willing test audience for each other's original works of prose or poetry. Reading literature to each other may not sound like much fun—who doesn’t have mountains of reading to do on Sunday night?—but the literature we read at Phi is not (usually) the same as our homework. Our choices are guided only by the topic of the week (War and Peace and Drinking Stories were two from last semester) but anything on any subject is welcome. There is no quiz at the end of the semester.

At various times, Phi has been accused of being too formal and staid—not exciting enough. While Robert’s Rules of Order is not my favorite book, I must admit I like the formality of the meetings. There is a distinct measuredness to the proceedings, certain conventions that must be followed, which is comforting compared to the weekly chaos I call a schedule. The final joy in this tradition is that I will graduate this spring from Davidson, and also from Phi. I will have two diplomas. One will represent four years of academic toil. The second will represent three and a half years of making time for literature, my first love, of friendships and good times had within (and without) the confines of the Hall—and the knowledge that in the grand scheme of things few people have a Davidson diploma, and even fewer have a Philanthropic Literary Society diploma. The diploma is also an indication that the Philanthropic Society deems me worthy to serve as their representative in the outside world.

I encountered Phi because a friend turned off the TV, looked at me and said, “Put your coat on, we’re going to Phi,” and I didn’t argue. I am graduating from Phi because from the first moment that I stepped into the dim glow of the hall from the freezing Davidsonian night, I knew I had found something special, something I did not want to give up.

If anyone in the audience would like to experience Phi for themselves, we are still meeting in Phi Hall (the one facing Main St.) from 9-10 p.m. on Sunday evenings. The topics for the coming weeks are: Valentine’s Day (2/9), Failure (2/16), and TBA/Historical (2/23). Guests are eligible for membership after attending three meetings. All are welcome!

Josh Roberts

---

Paint Your Face ... Yes! Count it! With four seconds to go the Cats have just tied the game up. UTC inbounds the ball ... College basketball is one of the best spectator sports in the world. Fans root more passionately, the players play with more devotion, the tickets cost less, and there is no fear that the team may suddenly uproot and move to Baltimore. For many students, their loyalty to their school and its team extends far beyond graduation. The Division I status of Davidson was an attraction for me, I admit it. I don’t mean to slight the lower divisions, but Division I sports are consistently more exciting and are of higher quality. Whether this is the fault of the media or not is another issue that I am not going to discuss.

Davidson Basketball has recently resurfaced as a power in the Southern Conference and has been nationally recognized for its high-quality play. Last year was one of the best ever and the excellence is bound to continue. The three freshmen marvels of last year are now sophomores and have become hardened veterans who can help guide this year’s outstanding frosh class. The coach has scored a coup, again. Not only has he been able to lure top high school prospects to our small school, but he has consistently proven himself to have a gifted basketball mind and to be a top-notch motivator, and don’t forget, he’s a snappy dresser. He has molded his team into a swift, powerful force that must be reckoned with.

Unfortunately, many of the Davidson students out there don't realize all this. Armed with your overused excuses, such as the trite "I have so much work to do," you ignore your duty as a well-rounded student and skip game after game. Come on, lighten up. Be a Ferris Bueller, not a Cameron Frye. A basketball game is social. It’s exciting. The team needs you. Don't forget, as students, you get in FREE! At other schools, students have to pay. Here, you don’t even have to camp out the night before to get tickets. It doesn’t take that long to walk to Baker from anywhere on campus or from Concord Road. Belk Arena is quite large when you compare it with the size of our school, so we need as many bodies as we can get to fill it in order to give our team true home-court advantage.

But your responsibility doesn’t end once you sit down to watch. You must cheer. Don’t be like the majority of Davidson students. Looking around the gym, it’s sometimes hard to tell if there’s a basketball game going on, or just an intense chess match. Don’t complain about the idiots in front who keep standing up, instead join them. Scream when the other team shoots free throws. Paint your face. So the dots are dumb, but they’re all we’ve got. Wave them with all your might. Release all of your inhibitions and go stark raving mad for 40 minutes of pure energy. Pretend it’s Self-Selection night all over again (but please keep your underwear on). The team needs you. They’re playing great now, come on out and see for yourself.

... and the Cats steal it back! Two seconds on the clock ... one... it’s good! Davidson wins! Davidson wins! Oh, yeah. The guys' hoops team is really good, too.