4

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, APRIL 7, 1997

SGA chartering: SGA rejects committee recommendation, grants charter to IVCF

By Naresh Nagella
Associate News Editor

What a difference a year makes. Last year after the Charters and By-laws Committee voted to recommend the SGA not grant InterVarsity Christian Fellowship (IVCF) a charter, the SGA agreed on a 16-15 vote to deny IVCF the status of a chartered organization.

This year, the same committee upheld the previous recommendation, but the SGA decided to renew the charter in a 22-9 vote.

“We saw a conflict between the college’s non-discriminatory policy and [IVCF’s overall intentions],” says SGA representative and committee member sophomore Jonathan Sipling.

“IVCF said membership is open to anyone but discriminates requirements for their leaders. The college policy does not differ between membership and leadership whereas IVCF does.” The committee rejected IVCF’s proposal in a 4-3 vote.

The discrimination at issue was a part of the IVCF constitution mandating: “To be considered for leadership in this organization individuals should demonstrate lives... free of patterns of gossip and slander; drunkenness; sexual immorality, including the practice of homosexuality, or the inappropriate practice of heterosexual activity outside of the marriage context; selfish ambition; hatred; lewdness; and the like.” (Article V, Section 1)

While the details in question had not changed, the nature of the debate surely had.

Last year’s discussion centered around whether a homosexual student could ever become a leader in the organization and the ethics of banning or permitting that.

This year it centered mainly around whether or not IVCF met the procedural guidelines for becoming a chartered organization.

“The issue here is what the SGA can do in accordance with its by-laws. Section 4f requires that an organization intends to abide by laws. Except where an exception is appropriate and allowed by law. It is legal for the Presbyterian church to say it does not want homosexual ministers. They could not get in trouble for discriminating in that manner. The issue here is legality. It is discrimination but it is legal,” says Kappa Sigma senator Connor Eldridge.

Some students still expressed concern that a discriminatory organization would be able to apply and get funds from the student body. But, the granting of the charter does not automatically give an organization student money. They must apply for that separately.

The legality of the IVCF organization and its practices seemingly were sufficient grounds for most senators to support granting the charter.

Independent senator Jon Hutzley still agreed with the committee’s recommendation since, he says, “IVCF expressly states they will discriminate against a certain segment of the population. Not granting the organization a charter will not inhibit their freedom of religion.”

Hutzley also noted that other organizations do not have problems fully complying with all aspects of the school’s non-discrimination policy and that IVCF should not be an exception.

“If the College Democrats specified against a Republican being a leader in their organization, I would not vote [for them to have a charter] either,” he says.

Senior Zac Lacy still believes IVCF should be granted a charter, saying, “IVCF did the six things required to get a charter. Later on down the road if they do or do not follow it, then that is another issue.”

IVCF executive board member Kellsey Sewell states, “The distinction [between membership and leadership] was not intentional. There is a legal standing for what we have done. It is important for us to be recognized by the College.”

Cannon speaks on the pebbles of ethics

By Ann Cup
News Editor

Dr. Katie Cannon brought womanist ethics to Davidson in her lecture entitled “Pebble Ethics” on Thursday.

In a world where black connotes male and female means white, black women are left without a paradigm.

“Black women’s experience has been overlooked, neglected, or distorted in most of the existing ethical scholarship,” Cannon writes in her book Katie’s Canon.

Cannon asserted that we must reconsider age-old traditions and doctrines of sexism and racism to correct what she calls “academic invisibility.” Black women have been forced to “bleach and neuter ourselves so that we can exist in the Western canon,” she says.

“There is an unspoken, informal code within intellectual societies which African American women must subscribe to or run the risk of being misunderstood, misinterpreted, or being second-class scholars specializing in Jim Crow subject matter,” says Cannon.

Cannon focuses on the “life lessons” of African American women.

“These are the irreducible contradictions of black experience in America,” she says.

Cannon used the example of Fannie Lou Hamer as the essence of the first pebble in womanist ethics.

In 1962, she stepped into a courthouse to register to vote. The sheriff beat her until she was unconscious. After that incident, Hamer refused to relinquish her fight for civil rights.

Alice Walker coined the phrase Womanist in her book In Search of Our Mother’s Gardens. Walker names a womanist as “a black feminist or feminist of color... Usually referring to outrageous, audacious, courageous, or willful behavior.” Katie Cannon combines womanist with ethics to mean “experiencing within and interpreting without.”

The lecture was provided by the Thomas F. Staley endowment for distinguished Christian leaders.