THE DAVIDSONIAN

Apocalypse: soon, says senior seer Seavers

By YANNOOS TRADAMUS

Your wet dream

According to Davidson senior Dennis Seavers, the end of the world will occur on July 27, 1997, at exactly 12:47
pm, EST. “It’s true,” says Seavers. “The world will come to a blinding end at 12:47. I’ve seen the signs
of the apocalypse as they’ve been presented in the Revelation of St. John, and they’re coming true.

“I haven’t figured out all of the details yet, but I know a few. I’m becoming a Catholic priest after
graduation, though, and I might be able to study about the end times in seminary for the two months between
graduation and armageddon.”

Seavers says, “For example, Revelation 12:1&2 reads, ‘A woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet and
a crown of twelve stars on her head, was pregnant and cried out in pain as she was about to
give birth.’” He explains, “The woman is clearly Madonna, which is ironic because she shares her name with the Virgin,
who was and still is the mother of God. Madonna, however, is the mother of the anti-christ, which makes sense,
because the Bible says that the antichrist will resemble Christ in many ways but will not be Christ.

“I do love Madonna, and it’s a shame that she gave birth to Satan’s spawn. As much as I’d like
to believe that she isn’t the woman, though, I just can’t help but believe it. The sun that she’s clothed
in is music, and the moon under her feet is Hollywood, which Madonna has recently conquered with her fantastic performance
in Evita.”

Seavers is confident that his interpretation of the Bible is accurate, and he gives another example. “The most interesting sign
is the Beast. The Bible says, ‘And he was given authority over every tribe, people, language, and nation. All inhabitants
of the earth will worship the beast.’”

Seavers explains, “Throughout history, people have interpreted the sign of the Beast in many different ways. Unenlightened fundamentalists have claimed
that the Pope, Kennedy, and Martin Luther King, Jr. were the Beast, but they’ve all got it wrong.”

“The Beast is not actually a person, but a corporation. Since I’m a philosophy major, I’ve dedicated a lot of
time to understanding the meaning of life and contemporary culture.

“It turns out that the Beast is based in Milwaukee, and its corporate plan to prepare the world for destruction
includes mass distribution of its ‘light’ product.”

Seavers says, “I know it sounds fishy, but 666 is the number of the Beast, and everybody knows that this
is how many beers 55 college students go through in a night, and 55 is, like 666, an unholy number.
Take 7, a holy number, square it, and you get 49, a super-holy number. Now add 13, an evil number,
and you get 62, a defiled holy number. Then you take away 7, or the remaining holiness, and you get
55, a completely defiled number.”

Many scholars disagree with Seavers’s assessment of armageddon. Freshman Eric Ferguson says, “Okay, the biggest problem I have with this
interpretation is that it completely disregards abortion. What the Bible is really saying about the woman and the Beast is
this: ‘The woman clothed in the sun with her feet on the moon is the women’s movement, and the Beast
is aborticide, the sick, evil spawn of the women’s movement. Any view of the end times must include the murder
of millions upon millions.’”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

of innocent babies.” Junior Bonner Scholar says, “Well, you know, like, I read somewhere that the world is like ending
in 1999 and stuff, like in the Prince song, you know? And so how can it be like ending this
year when it’s two years too early and stuff? I mean, all those really good magazines in the grocery store,
like the ones without staples like the Enquirer and that News magazine and stuff, well they all say that the
guy who knows when the world is ending is named Nostra-something, not Dennis. Whatever.” Seavers responds, “I agree that the
world will end in the year 1999. The only problem is, back when they calculated the calendar, mistakes were made.
Biblical scholars disagree about when exactly Christ was born, but they all place the event between 4 B.C.E. and 6
C.E. I’ve done some calculations of my own, and it appears that he was born in 2 B.C.E., which means
that it’s actually 1999 now.” Religion professor Bill Mahony also disagrees with Seavers. Mahony says, “Dude man, when the end
comes, it’s not going to be a beast destroying the world in a fiery flash. That’s a Western misinterpretation of
the Bible, man. To understand it, you’ve got to look to the East. Always look to the East. “Man, when
the end comes, it'll be Shiva flying down on a magic carpet woven from the world’s greatest silk, changing the
appearance and essence of the earth and making it new. She will be fearsome and wonderful. Dig it.” Wah.

MONDAY, APRIL 35, 1997

Cosmic Coffee goes down the drain: I’m not bitter, my coffee is.
By JACOB ABRAHAM
Cosmic Critic

After almost a year of not-busyness, Cosmic Coffee has finally retired its shingle. Surprisingly, strategic business moves like shortening business
hours and raising prices did nothing to draw customers. “Once we received a bad review in The Davidsonian, we never
could recover,” complained shop owner Nancy Gray. “I would have gotten away with it if it weren’t for that pesky
paper and their little Indian reporter too.” The article complained that Cosmic didn’t cater to smokers and that the store’s
chairs were too uncomfortable. And that the waitresses didn’t flirt with the horny truck drivers. You have to go to
FAC in the 900 Room for that sort of thing. “But I like the spikes in the middle of the
chairs. Form follows function,” says Gray.

“I agree completely,” says junior wannabe-SGA-member Eric Sapp. “I tried to get the SGA to give them ATC funds, but
they wouldn’t listen to me. If I were on SGA things would be different. Cosmic would still be in business
and they wouldn’t have to publish ads in that liberal trash alterna-paper. That’s the real problem. Good Christians are frightened
away from the store when they see such evil propaganda in the windows.”

“I think Jumpin’ Java ran them out of town. It’s the Scrabble. Can’t beat Scrabble,” says Jumpin’ Java regular Margaret
Lumpkin.

“Lumpy’s right,” says Professor Bob “Self-Anointed” Manning, “Cosmic just plain sucked.”

Gray felt the student apathy, and spent all the slow hours trying to think of ways to attract them. Unfortunately,
such hot items as “those little things that you sit on that look like naked people that are supposed to
be chairs” were not so hot after all.

“I liked them,” says Buster Burk.

“I’m not bitter,” says Gray. “I’m not bitter, I swear.”

Ha ha! I won!
