RTS & LIVING MONDAY, APRIL 21, 1997

Showtime was 8 p.m., but by 7:45 p.m., not a single seat was left unoccupied in the Davidson College Presbyterian
Church sanctuary. Hundreds of fans from the college and community came to enjoy The James G. Swisher Memorial Concert, featuring
the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra, Chamber Singers, and Concert Choir.

In honor of Swisher, Professor of Music and Pianist-in-Residence at Davidson College from 1978-1996, the evening opened with a tributary
English anthem. Six lovely voices, including those of conductors Donna M. Di Grazia and Richard Prior, sang a heartfelt text
from 2 Samuel 18:33 arranged for music by Thomas Weelkes (1576-1623).

Afterwards, performers and audience alike were welcomed to the first selection, Mozart’s Marriage of Figaro. The orchestra captured the essence
of this familiar work with brilliance. The large string section consistently maintained the fast tempo, and percussion helped to enrich
the accents at the peaks of crescendos. In short, it was a vibrant performance worthy of praise.

The next selection was Magnificat by Bach, featuring the Chamber Singers and Di Grazia at the podium. Piccolo-trumpet opened the
piece with a sound that was continued by other instruments and strings. The piece proceeded with a series of choral
interludes and arias sung by four professional soloists: soprano Michelle Byrd, counter-tenor David Bennett, tenor Jeffrey Price, and bass Philip
Weller.

Vocal highlights of the performance included the Chamber Singers’ energetic choral burst of “Omnes generationes” during Byrd’s second aria and
the duet sung by Bennett and Price. Bennett also performed a pleasing solo aria that was complemented by a beautifully-played
dialogue for two flutes. Among other intriguing instrumental features were the obbligato oboe heard during the soprano’s second aria and
the choral trio; the trumpets and percussion that forwarded the piece; and two cellos that formed a “continuo” group that
played throughout the performance. It was a unique experience to hear this organ which, compared to the main organ, is
smaller, has only one manual of 48 keys, and runs 5 notes.

After intermission, the Concert Choir filed into the sanctuary, standing in eight ascending rows. Below them, the Symphony Orchestra filled
the available space for the final selection, Mozart’s Requiem. Prior and Di Grazia each took a moment to recognize this
year’s graduating seniors for their years of dedication to the Concert Choir and Symphony Orchestra. Prior was then welcomed back
to the podium to conduct a moving choral and symphonic performance.

Following the introductory measures played by low wind instruments, the Concert Choir captivated the audience with their rich singing of
Requiem Aeternam. After Byrd’s appealing soprano solo, the Choir continued to produce a full sound, most notably in the Kyrie
Eleison. The Sequence featured a solo bass and solo trombone work to provide some contrast to the choruses. The mood
of the piece became more somber and prayerful. The Concert Choir maintained their commendable diction, particularly through the Offertory and
Sanctus. The solo quartet singing Benedictus prepared for the piece’s final movements, Agnus Dei and Communion. Here the Choir, soprano
solo, and Symphony Orchestra worked together to provide an energetic conclusion to the Requiem. Despite minor rhythmic confusion, the Concert
Choir and Symphony Orchestra received well-deserved thunderous applause and a standing ovation. Congratulations to the more than 150 performers who
made this first-ever choir and choral program truly historical. This skillful and enthusiastic performance was a direct result of the
heartfelt devotion of Prior and Di Grazia for their ensembles.

Gods of humor fill Black Box with romantic farces
Series of one-act plays tickles audience, laughs at infidelity, melodrama, lust, and love
By JOSH GAFFGA Guest Writer

Nary a contemporary playwright was out to play this year at the one-act series as a result of the daring
vision of Dr. Rupert T. Barber, who courageously led his directing students to undertake the unique challenge of working with
period pieces from all over the world, including plays from Georges Feydeau, Arthur Schnitzler, J. M. Barrie, A. A. Milne,
and Anton Chekhov. The plays were a stretch of skill for the directing students but were also a stretch for
the audience—of our laugh lines. The series, which centered around a theme of humor, was entitled “HA!” HA! indeed. My
usual criteria for whether or not a show is “good” is how much I enjoy myself and, more importantly, whether
or not I have a good laugh (I don’t try for much more depth than that). These one-acts not only
allowed me to thoroughly enjoyMyself but also had me roaring. The series began with "Wooed and Viewed," a piece by
the father of French farce, Georges Feydeau, directed by senior Kay Walraven. The cast included Josh Roberts as Hector and
Jennifer Neale as Emma. "Wooed and Viewed" concerns marriage and infidelity and examines such in a farcical manner. The two
characters can’t quite coordinate their actions as both attempt to formulate matrimonial infidelity with the other, but all’s well in
farceland when the curtain closes, as is typical in this style of play. The actors had a tough job in
front of them, being the first to break in the Davidson audience to this unfamiliar style of theatre. Walraven did
a good job in her directorial approach to Roberts’ asides, a convention that, because of its outdatedness, is tough to
convey to modern audiences. The two actors showed a lot of energy and enjoyed the characters’ playfulness, so far as
I could tell, and thus translated the farcical style effectively.

The evening continued with director James Lloyd’s presentation of Arthur Schnitzler’s "The Festival of Bacchus," an Austrian satire dealing with,
once again, marriage and infidelity. Schnitzler’s message, however, was more involved than Feydeau’s. "Bacchus" paints a picture of domestic deviations
complete with an undertone of the characters’ moral values. Felix, played with intensity and truth by Trey Adams, comes home
to catch his wife and her lover, a terribly impotent egomaniac, in the act of eloping, and he eventually convinces
her, as he convinces the audience, that she’s always instinctively felt love and loyalty for him only. Philippa Finch and
Austin Rios played the plotting couple with a style that sometimes bordered on melodrama and other times played more subtly.
In fact, the entire play oftentimes found itself straddling the fence between laughable farce and serio-comic satire, a combination that
worked for Schnitzler’s play as a whole. Billy Roberts and Rebecca Smith were the hilarious agents for Schnitzler’s Bacchus theme.
As the lust-struck guard and waitress, they, at the height of Adams’ “Bacchus” speech, snuck off to have a love-fest
of their own, thereby putting into action the idea of fundamental human impulses which permeates Schnitzler’s play.

The second week of one-acts moved us chuckling across the channel to the British Isles and then to Russia and
the rarely experienced humor of Anton Chekhov. My laugh-filled evening started with A.A. Milne’s 1925 British comedy "The Man in
the Bowler Hat." Directed by Trey Adams and starring the largest cast of the one-act series, this creation framed melodrama
within the very boring lives of John and Mary, a couple who would much rather sit quietly and muse upon
the local boilermakers’ strike. Unfortunately, their evening is ruined as a Hero, hilariously played by Vic Brand, and his Heroine,
a very Scarlett-esque Sarah Zogby, interrupt in order to evade the Villain, a darkly disguised Mark Berger, and a Bad
Man, played by Matt Johnston, who had me snickering with his “yeah boss” characterization. Leslie Greiner, as the title character,
sits by, drags her cigar and calmly takes in the action as if she weren’t present at all. This absurdity
finally clears itself up as Greiner shouts “cut” and calls it a day. The piece worked as an exploration of
the melodrama of theatre versus the “realism” of everyday life.

The second play of the evening was "The Twelve Pound Look," written by J.M. Barrie and directed by Jess Robblee.
This English comedy was undoubtedly the most thoughtful play of the series in what it offered in terms of theme.
Jen Spears, who impressed me as Kate, has a run-in with her ex-husband, portrayed excellently by Nick Paul, who combined
his well-known comic ability with a more genuine interpretation of the eccentric Harry. Kate boldly relates all the reasons she
left Harry, not the least of which has to do with the “twelve pound look,” the look which wives give
their husbands when they think they have enough of their own assets to do without the domineering men in their
lives. Incensed by her accusations of his “ignoble views of women,” Harry sends for the maid, Lacy, a sex-kitten portrayed
by Tory Talbot, to have Kate removed from the premises. All this occurs, though, not before Harry’s new wife, played
with innocent humor by Grace Robinson, catches a glimpse of Kate’s “contented” face and slips Harry a twelve pound look
of her own. Barrie’s play, in the style of Ibsen’s classic "The Doll House," contains a great deal of psychological
realism and complex character psyches working in sharp contrast to one another. Robblee harnessed this realism and presented a play
that was not only enjoyably funny, but as a more serious and thought-provoking piece.

See Chortle page 12.
