THE DAVIDSONIAN

Palatable Pleasures
Better than beans and just as cheap
By Jeffrey CroMartie
Chef-in-Residence

Life basically boils down to borrowing energy from other stuff. The trick is to be able to utilize the energy to drive your cellular metabolic pathways before the environment decides to rather viciously reclaim the borrowed energy. Anyway, one good way to stay on top of the nasty energy-sucking winter chills is to eat. Eat a lot.

As Americans, we somehow came up with the idea that it is our God-given right to have lots of everything at no cost. Well, when we are talking food, there are many options that are packed with usable energy that cost very little. I’m talking about pasta. I’m talking about beans. I’m talking about rice. Even at Harris Teeter, these foodstuffs are cheap. More Value macaroni and cheese sells at 5 boxes for a dollar. Each box provides a large one-course meal for two full-grown, hungry, drooling males or one female athlete. Sure, you have to add a little milk or butter, but the total cost of the meal will not be more than 30 cents per person. Also, you are getting the best kind of energy source, complex carbohydrates; these puppies keep you going strong. Just ask a runner.

Need a protein source? I suggest little baby plant embryos; I mean beans. I go for red kidney beans over rice with onions and spicy peppers. Beans are cheaper than expensive dirt, and they taste better. However, there are a couple of drawbacks to beans. First, if you buy dried beans, then you have to soak them which takes a few hours. You are well aware of other side effects which can be avoided if you choose to predigest your food with the enzyme beanohydrogenase. Red beans and rice can be a delicious and filling meal at very little cost.

Keep in mind that the Commons charges you $6 for every dinner. Sure, you have many more options at the Commons like mint chocolate chip ice cream, but you could buy 30 boxes of mac and cheese for the cost of one meal there. The cool part about eating at the Commons is that you don’t have to wash the dishes, and there are plenty of entertaining people to sit and chat with. Pleasing everybody is impossible, but the Commons always seems to try. However, if you want to save some dough, stick to the staples during the week, and with the money you saved, buy salmon or tenderloins on the weekend and live it up.

Enough Dogma: Let us Cook!
Last night I went up to Wake Forest to watch my culinary mentor in action. Ronney showed yet another simple yet elegant dish — Bruschetta. Take some garlic buds (0.5 to 1 clove) and peel and mince it. Add a dash of olive oil and wrap the paste in foil. Put the foil pack in the oven to roast for about 10 minutes at around 350 F. While the garlic is roasting, take some cherry tomatoes (about a dozen) and cut them into eighths. Slice up about a quarter of a red onion (they look purple to me). Next, chop up some fresh basil, and grate some parmesan. Mix everything together, including the garlic, in a large bowl and add salt and pepper. Slice up some French bread and brush the pieces with olive oil. Spoon the mix over the bread and bake at 350 F for 10-15 min. Hope you enjoy.

Hornet’s Nest swarms Charlotte, leaves readers stung.
By Greg Garrison
Staff Writer

I’ve just read Hornet’s Nest by Patricia Cornwell, and I’m honestly ambivalent about her newest novel. The story revolves around Andy Brazil, a rookie reporter, and Virginia West, the Deputy Chief of police. Brazil’s assignment for the Charlotte Observer is to experience firsthand the life of a policeman and to write stories about them for the newspaper. Right before Brazil receives his assignment, a serial killer begins murdering businessmen who are visiting Charlotte. The killer then paints a black-widow-spider-style hourglass on the victims’ crotches. While Brazil is learning what it is like to be a cop and relaying stories to the public, West is searching for the black widow killer. Although at first she dislikes Brazil, the two grow close.

Never having read a Cornwell before, I looked forward to reading it with great anticipation. I had heard that her books were exciting, interesting, and fun, and although I enjoyed it, the book didn’t really meet my expectations. The characters are exactly that — characters, not real people. When they are in danger or about to discover a secret or make a decision, I didn’t have the on-the-edge-of-my-seat experience that I often have with action stories. Often, reviewers refer to a book as “a real page-turner.” This overused phrase is not particularly applicable to Hornet’s Nest. The plot is pretty thin, and it often drags. Having said that, though, I must admit that I enjoyed the book and would recommend it.mend it to a friend. One thing that I enjoyed about the novel was the setting; it’s set in Charlotte and Davidson, and I loved reading about locations that I know well. Another merit was the strength of the female characters. Strong women are so rarely characters in crime novels that the prevalence of them in Hornet’s Nest was a treat. The women were not weak, fearful, or spineless, and they did not depend on men to get them out of dangerous situations. There should be far more stories like this.

Having heard a little bit about how Cornwell got her start as a writer and what she’s like as a person, I enjoyed trying to figure out which character she made herself. It may be presumptuous to believe that she’s any character, but I do it in my own stories, so I assume that many other writers do it in theirs. There seem to be little bits of Cornwell in many of the characters, and I got the feeling that by writing about Davidson and by making Andy Brazil’s career much like the early days of her own, she had a blast writing this book.

Hornet's Nest reminds me of old pulp fiction, like Doc Savage or Fu Manchu, where action, not characters or plot, is the star. Having read plenty of pulp, let me assure you that this is a big plus for me. The greatest difference between Hornet's Nest and the other books, however, is that Cornwell is a much more careful and interesting writer than Kenneth Robeson or Sax Rohmer were. To make a long story short if it’s not too late, the book has its strengths and weaknesses, and I’d suggest that you go out and buy it, except that 20-odd dollars is a damn sight too much to pay for almost any book when you’re a college student. Wait a year and get the paperback. It’s a book written for the sake of entertainment, so don’t expect The Brothers Karamazov, sit back, relax, and let yourself be entertained.

---

Patricia Cornwell ARTS & LIVING
November 17, 1997 MONDAY

Michael Longley, an Irish poet, reads from his latest collection of poems, “The Ghost Orchid” in the 900 Room 7:30 p.m. - 8:45 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java rocks it in the Outpost 7:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.
Pierce Pettis plays in the 900 Room 10 p.m. - 12 a.m.
Coffeehouse fills your mug in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.
Coffee House Theater, 900 Room... 7 p.m. - 9 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java repeats in the Outpost 7:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.
Charlotte Symphony performs in the DCPC Sanctuary 8 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.
Armchair Adventure Series sits around the Home Room 8 p.m. - 10 p.m.
Twenty-One Year Old Night brings the adventure to the bar in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

---

WEDNESDAY

CROP Lunch serves your fill of beans and rice in the 900 Room 11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m.
Girl Scout Cookie Sale gets you fat for a good cause on the Union Patio 3:30 p.m. - 5 p.m.
Morris Blachmon speaks on “America’s Addictive Policy in the Drug War: Breaking the Habit” in the 900 Room 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m.
Smoking Cessation supports quitters in the Morrison Room 10:30 p.m. - 11:30 p.m.
Waist Away to nothing in the 900 Room 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m.
Girl Scout Cookie Sale causes flashbacks on the Union Patio 3:30 p.m. - 5 p.m.
James Marks, Director of the National Center for Disease Prevention and Health Promotion at the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, comments on population growth, the environment, emerging infections, and genetics in the 900 Room 7 p.m. - 8 p.m.
Pilobus converts bodies into interlocking and interchangeable parts, erecting structures on stage that are as much sculpture as dance in Love Auditorium 8 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.
Pilobus Reception has free food in Chambers Gallery 9:30 p.m. - 10:30 p.m.
Streetcar Named Desire lets you see firsthand the resemblance between young Brando and sophomore Paul Shotts in the 900 Room 9:30 p.m. - 11:30 p.m.

---

FRIDAY

German Studies Symposium on “Cultural Studies: Approaches to the City of Weimar” begins today and runs to Sunday. Check outside Burkhard Henke’s office for details.
Coffeehouse features special brews in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.
FAC Pub brings the Par 4 to the 900 Room 4:30 p.m. - 8 p.m.
Streetcar Named Desire features Vivian Leigh as Southern and crazy in the 900 Room 8 p.m. - 10 p.m.
Friday Nite at the Outpost is as fun as it always is in the Outpost 11 p.m. - midnight.
Will Baldwin hosts a “What’s Happening?” marathon in F 107 5:30 p.m. - whenever Rog, ReRun, and Shirley get too much (never).
Settie in Concert in the 900 Room 10 p.m. - midnight.
Gospel Songfest sings for God in Love Auditorium 4 p.m. - 6 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java is always a hoot at the Outpost 7:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.