THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING _ TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1997

“Blast From Our Past” Film Festival
offers cuddly memories of our youth

By WESLEY GOLDSBERRY
Arts and Living Editor

Faster than a speeding
DeLorean, the 1997-98 Davidson
College Union movie series will
follow its premiere exhibition
(Shine) with the First Annual “Blast
From Our Past” Film Festival.

It will feature seven modern
classics from our childhood, the era
of Transformers, Fruit Roll-Ups,
and Robotix.

The festival will open Sunday
night at the Outpost with “Willy
Wonka and the Chocolate Factory,”
the 1974 film which features the
original Everlasting Gobstopper.
Monday follows with “Back to
the Future” which needs no by-
line. Everyone should catch “Foot-
loose” with Kevin Bacon Tuesday
night, the “six degree” man him-
self. “Say Anything,” “Weird Sci-
ence” (both Wednesday in the 900
Room), “Sixteen Candles” (Thurs-
day), and “Ferris Bueller’s Day
Off” (Friday) round out the week of
retro film classics.

As if the mirth of the films
themselves weren’t enough, each
night will feature a unique raffle for
which the audience will be auto-
matically entered. The prizes will
include movie posters, Ferris T-
shirts, a slinky, silly putty, and sev-
eral other euphoric novelties. In
keeping with the theme of the festi-
val, Films Chairperson Jenny Nolan
advises that everyone “wear [their]
favorite Underoos. Besides, it’s
free, so you’d be an idiot not to go.”

‘Air Force One” soars

Great action, superb performances make it a can’t-miss hit

“Air Force One,” an exhilarat-
ing thriller directed with exemplary
proficiency by Wolfgang Petersen,
hits cruising speed with its first scene
and never slows down.

The movie pits Harrison Ford
as the president of the United States
against a renegade Kazakhstan ter-
rorist (Gary Oldman) who hijacks
the presidential plane and holds a
gun to the head of the first lady and
the 12-year-old first daughter.

It is up to Ford, hiding in the
baggage compartment, to outsmart
the hijackers and save his family
and the other hostages on board.

Ford as the president is a per-
fect piece of casting. What lends
such old setups new vigor, even
passion, is the slyly witty and in-
spiring spectacle of the chief execu-
tive as action renegade.

This is similar action to what
we've seen in other Ford movies
and other airplane hijacking films,
but it’s better. Ford still takes care
of business as he did in the Indiana
Jones trilogy and in the Clancy thrill-
ers, but this time as president, he
steps up to the next level.

For those of you who saw “Ex-
ecutive Decision” with Kurt Russell,
you may notice several similarities.
But again, this movie puts it to
shame.

Ford has to be one of my favor-
ite actors and he doesn’t disappoint
here. The action and pace really get
going once the Russian nationalist
fanatics who have smuggled them-
selves aboard leap up from their
seats, grab machine guns, and begin
to pump lead into the passengers.

This being the President’s
plane, Air Force One, it’s almost as
though terrorists have taken over
the White House — the people’s
house — and we feel violated.
Gary Oldman as the head vil-
lain, an ultra-communist who de-
spises Western freedom as if it were
poisoned air, does some real acting
beneath the action.

Sporting a goatee and a Volga-
boatman accent, he makes the sa-
distic terrorist sweaty and desper-
ate, a life-sized crazy who feels the
fear of his victims and then kills
them anyway. This is the rare sum-
mer thriller in which death actually
stings.

Glenn Close co-stars as the vice
president in a completely thankless
role, alternating between staring
steely-eyed and crying tiny vice-
presidential tears while Oldman
selects and executes hostage after
hostage.

It’s no real shock that the scenes
in the White House are nowhere
near as exciting as what’s taking
place on the plane, yet we end up
spending a lot of time down there
anyway.

So many recent movies, in their
attempt to find new villains since
the Cold War has ended, have fallen
short. This one stays up to date on
the state of the world and still pro-
vides a believable enemy for us to
hate.

As I said, Harrison Ford is my
favorite actor, but Gary Oldman
makes the movie great.

Oldman is unquestionably the
best bad guy I’ve seen in a while
from Hollywood. I highly recom-
mend this movie if action is what
you’re seeking. Grade: A

WEDNESDAY

WALT, Davidson’s student-operated radio station, lo-
cated at 1610 AM on your radio dial holds an informa-
tional meeting for all intrigued students in the 900 Room.
9:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m.

Intervarsity Christian Fellowship (IVCF) holds its
inaugural meeting in the Morrison Room in the Union.
6:45 p.m.-8:30 p.m.

“Shine,” a film based on the true story of a man who goes
nutzoid trying to learn Rachmaninoff’s 3rd Piano Con-
certo, is shown in the 900 Room. 9:30 p.m.-11:30 p.m.

Gran Torino, the musical group, performs a free
outdoor concert at Richardson Field. 8:00 p.m.-12:00
a.m.

Coffeehouse offers coffee and doughnuts at prices that
even struggling college students can afford in the 900
Room. 8:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m.

The volleyball team plays its first match of the season
against those zany Seahawks of UNC-Wilmington at
Belk Arena. 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m.

“Shine” was good enough to earn itself an encore screen-
ing in the 900 Room. 9:30 p.m.-11:30 p.m.

Volleyball plays two, two, TWO games in one day
against College of Charleston and the Fighting Chris-
tians of Elon College at Belk Arena. 1:00 p.m.-3:00 p.m.
and 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., respectively.

Man or Astro-Man?, one of Brian Cruse’s favorite
bands, decides once and for all which type of man it is in
the 900 Room. 9:00 p.m.-12:00 p.m.

Willy Wonka and The Chocolate Factory starring
Gene Wilder and a cast of thousands of Oompa-Loompas
shows at the Outpost. 9:30 p.m.-11:30 p.m.