Che Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

+ Editors-in-Chief
RANDY HARTWELL
JEFFERY CROMARTIE

Assoc. Arts & Living Editor
CAROLINE BYNUM

Business Manager
TERESA WHITE

Sports Editors
WILL BRADSHAW
PETER MARTIN

Advertising Managers
JOHN EARLY
MICHAEL KRUSE

Associate Editor
MATTHEW EIRICH

News Editors
ANN CULP
ANNA JUDY

Photo Editor
CHLOE BROOKE

Circulation Managers
NARESH NAGELLA
McNEIL CARSWELL

Copy Editors
BETH BACON
KRISTEN BARTCH

Opinions Editors
PENNY WALL
CLAY LENHART

Web Page Managers
DAVID SANTSCHI
BRAD CHASE

Cartoonist
ERIC PENDERGRASS

Arts & Living Editor
CHRIS MOORE
HEATHER LARSON

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Hi, we’re new here

We are relatively new to this thing. We are still learning to walk the tight-rope without the safety net of
our illustrious predecessors. And we would be remiss if we did not thank publicly John Copenhaver and Mary Clare Jalonick
for their continued support and encouragement. They set a level of professionalism and credibility to which we will always aspire
and which we will never exceed. With deep gratitude, we express our indebtedness to them and wish them the best.
Enjoy your sleep-filled Sunday nights, John and Mary Clare. You have earned them.

We pledge to do the best job we can in presenting a balanced and diverse, interesting and substantial paper every
week. We have our opinions, agree with some people on campus and disagree with others, but we always will try
to be fair. This is not our paper. It belongs to the students. Well, OK, it actually belongs to the
Trustees, but that is another matter. The direction of the paper, its content and appearance, lies with the student body.
If you do not like The Davidsonian, get involved to change it. Call us on it when you think we
have messed up. (A pat on the back when you think we have done something well does not hurt, either.)

We would like to see greater participation in all aspects of the paper. Staff writers, from any class, are always
needed. Photographers, too. The opportunity to garner a prime title in short time shines brightly. Meaningful involvement in the production
of the paper is far from unattainable. Sometimes, our announcements encouraging people to write may seem silly and only half-serious.
And although they are written in a light-hearted way, the underlying message is sincere. We want and need your talent
and input.

Davidson faces a new era. Our national reputation is established and with that new recognition problems arise. And most important
among these new problems is Davidson’s identity. What kind of school are we? What kind of school do we want
to be? Exciting and daunting events such as the selection of a new College president, determining the facilities of the
new Union, and creating the possibility for more integrated coed-housing also will shape the answers to those questions. We want
The Davidsonian to be the place where students express what they think about these and other events. We hope everyone
will move in step to create a forum for meaningful discussion.

We hope this does not sound like we are taking ourselves too seriously. We want The Davidsonian to be fun
and playful, too. One of the effects of Davidson “tunnel vision” is an inability to see the humor and bright
side of the things happening around us: the male wet t-shirt contests, the exciting last-minute victories, the quirky news stories.
In short, we will try to keep perspective.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per
student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.
Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the
editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian.Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35 per
year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1997

WE DIDN'T THINK OF THIS SOONER

LETTERS

Cool it at the Outpost

To the Editors:

First of all, let me say that I have worked at the Outpost since its inception, and it’s been great
getting to develop good friendships with so many of you. But I feel we need to address some issues regarding
conduct. Extending the party you just left, or just hanging out and having a little fun is acceptable, and I
encourage that. Fighting, profanity, and abuse of the staff are not. We just lost two more employees due in part
to the stress of trying to please intoxicated, impatient, abusive students. We are trying to serve you as fast as
the small facility will allow, but you have to understand that a whole party full of people can’t walk in
at 2:00 and be eating at 2:10. If the extremely poor behavior continues, we may have no choice except to
consider increasing staff or hiring a police officer just to keep things in hand. This would be an expensive solution
which would probably come out of your pockets in higher prices. If it gets worse, we may have to consider
closing the Outpost.

Now the good news. Knowing the quality of the Davidson student, I think a little self-government will solve these problems.
Try to hold on to the dignity I know you possess, and let my staff have theirs. Remember, friends don’t
let friends embarrass themselves or their school. If you have any suggestions for how we can deal with these problems,
please let me know.

Dennis Rice
Union Outpost Manager

The Wildcats Deserve Support

To the Editors:

Let me say first that I am a very loyal supporter of Davidson College both on the academic and athletic
side. There is no better college in the United States. Even though I live in Georgia, I follow very closely
the men’s basketball team. I am very concerned now about the lack of student support as well as the general
fan support. Granted, the team is not nationally ranked like it was in the 60s when we could easily pack
the 11,000-seat capacity Charlotte Coliseum. However, Coach McKillop has brought this program up to respectability, and we are currently ranked
in the top one third of all division-one schools. With the second lowest number of male students in division one,
all Davidson alumni can take great pride in what this team accomplishes. Knowing the academic rigors, I still see no
reason why a majority of the student body cannot walk across campus and remain in a seat for two hours
thirteen times a year. There is much more to life than studying, and I certainly hope Davidson College is not
trying to bring in an all-1400 SAT student body of eggheads with no way of relating to the outside world.
Davidson College is certainly not a household name, and one way we get our name in front of the public
is through athletics. Having small crowds at a home game on television is no way to impress the general population.
In my opinion, if the student body, close-by alumni, and local fans do not support this program, then they do
not deserve a division-one team. Here’s hoping your readers will get behind this very fine group of young men.

Bill Ford ‘65
Canton, Georgia

Correction: Junior Michelle Bougdanos was incorrectly called “Michael” in the Election Issue of The Davidsonian. We regret the error.

Valentine’s Day is Friday. Woo that special someone The Davidsonian way, with a Davidsonian t-shirt. After all, a Davidsonian t-shirt
is forever. Only $10. (But don’t tell her what a good deal you got on it.)
