DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1997 16

Cisco overcomes struggles to lead Wildcats

By Daniel Motz
Staff Writer

Challenges have been a constant for Narcisse Ewodo since his arrival at Davidson almost three years ago. Just coming to the United States was a risk for the Yaounde, Cameroon, native. While most foreign players arrive in the States between the ages of 16 and 18, Ewodo took the major jump at 20.

“All international students have to adapt to a dramatic cultural change, language change, educational change, and athletic change coming to the United States,” coach Bob McKillop said recently. “But the fact that Cisco did it so late makes his change and assimilation that much more remarkable.”

The loss of Ewodo’s teammate and best friend, Ray Minlend, was another obstacle to overcome for the 6-8, 190-pound forward. The 6-2 off-guard, who would have been a junior this season, transferred to St. Francis (N.Y.) College this fall.

“He made a decision that was important to him and his future,” said Ewodo in an interview last week. “I felt bad coming back and not having him here, but I respect his decision.”

And perhaps the toughest challenge for Ewodo since his arrival has been leading this year’s squad, especially considering the legacy left by the epic 1995-96 team. Ewodo averaged a solid 10.1 points and 6.5 rebounds as a key role player last year during the Wildcats’ 25-5 campaign. Because the core of the squad included five seniors, including three all-conference selections, Ewodo did not have to take on a heavy leadership role.

In comparison, Ewodo is the lone senior this year and he has been called upon to take the team under his wing.

“It’s been an interesting experience,” said Ewodo. “Last year we had five seniors and pretty much everybody was mature to take care of business. This year it’s just me and Mark (Donnelly).”

“It’s his time to shine and the team revolves around him,” said Donnelly, Ewodo’s co-captain. “We're just happy to go out and play as hard as he does and follow his lead.”

Donnelly primarily acts as the vocal leader and Ewodo generally leads by example. Accordingly, before every game, Donnelly is the first of the Wildcats out of the tunnel, while Ewodo is always the last.

“I just go out there and play hard. It is kind of contagious when somebody plays hard,” noted Ewodo, whose younger brother Benjamin attends Providence Day School in Charlotte. “We think it is best that Mark is in front and I am just in the back protecting everybody.”

Known as Mr. Versatility, Ewodo’s hard work has paid off. The senior leads the Wildcats in scoring and stands fifth in the Southern Conference at 16.2 points a game and is second on the team in rebounding (6.6 rpg), behind only Landry Kosmalski.

But even these impressive numbers do not truly illustrate Ewodo’s impact on the team.

“He is the jack-of-all-trades,” remarked McKillop. “He can score, rebound, and play defense, and has developed an arsenal of offensive and defensive skills.

“But he has sacrificed his own personal game to benefit the team. He has set aside any personal agenda or ego to use his versatility to make the team better.”

And that is what makes this year’s team more special than any other for Ewodo.

“The last two years we had successful teams, but individually, some guys were frustrated,” Ewodo pointed out. “This year it is fun and we just go out and play. Everyone has their role.”

McKillop’s role, on the other hand, was finding Ewodo three years ago. A former assistant coach at St. John’s informed him about Ewodo, and McKillop investigated. Everything he heard further “whetted the coach’s appetite.”

Ewodo arrived in Davidson in the fall of 1994 and was declared a sophomore because he had been enrolled in a university in France.

Ewodo enjoys life at Davidson on and off the court. While the seemingly never-ending workload can be grueling, Ewodo believes it helps him get into a routine.

“It’s good that no one gives you any slack, because you have to work hard all of the time.”

After Davidson, he hopes to play professionally in France, and after basketball, is interested in pursuing a law degree.

Ewodo’s brilliant career at Belk Arena ends Saturday night against Appalachian St., but he still has one more major challenge.

“I am a little scared just running out there by myself,” said Ewodo, this year’s only honoree during the traditional Senior Day ceremonies. “I hope everything will be okay.”

Depth carries swim teams to Southern States sweep

Clean Sweep | from page 1

The men led throughout the meet, adding to their lead in each of the three nights, but the women had to vault over Louisville, Evansville, and Georgia Southern to take their first Southern States title.

“In terms of cohesiveness and team unity this is one of the most gelled, cohesive, and unified teams I’ve ever associated with and“I’ve been with some very, very good teams,” assistant coach Sam Jalet said. “They’re great athletes, great students, and they deserve everything they got.”

For the first time, an 18-person All-Southern States team was selected on the basis of total points scored in individual events. Mary Shell Brosche, Kathleen Paffenroth, and Zannah Bozzone were named to the women’s team. Matt Lake, Scott Harper, Terry Dolch, Freddy Schnell, and Sam Kuykendall were named to the men’s team.

In diving, Michael Hart finished third in the 1m (366.25) and fifth in the 3m (372.20), Dave Jenson 13th on both boards (193.35, 1m) and (172.25, 3m), and Michael Gillespie 14th (167.40, 1m). Elizabeth Fraser finished sixth on both boards for the women (266.60, 1m) and (294.90, 3m).

“I was pleased,” diving coach Ted Hautau said. “I want to do better. I’m not satisfied, but I’m pumped that we won.”

Brosche was named swimmer of the meet after winning three events and setting meet records in two. She shattered the 400 IM record (4:36.00) on Thursday, finishing in 4:28.33. The next night she won the 200 IM while setting another record (2:07.28), and she finished the triple on Saturday with a win in the 200 back (2:04.43).

Paffenroth took second in all three of her events. She pushed in behind Brosche in the 400 IM (4:37.03), split up a pair of Georgia Southern swimmers in the 1650 free (17:47.11), and was barely out-touched in the 200 fly (2:08.73) by Anette Olsson of Evansville (2:08.69).

Bozzone finished fourth in the 500 free (5:11.16), sixth in the 200 free (1:57.90), and fifth in the 200 back (2:09.92).

But after Thursday, it was unclear if the women would win the title. They finished the first day 56 points out of first, still the team never lost its confidence.

“I think it’s a really good spot for us,” Jennie Hillmann said Thursday night. “This was our weakest day and we’re right in the thick of things. I think we can take it.”

Her teammates agreed.

"We have Kathleen (Paffenroth) who hasn’t swum yet,” Allison Beebe said. “I haven’t swum yet in the individuals. Mary Shell (Brosche) has two more she can get. The same with (Zannah) Bozzone. We're going to rock.”

And they certainly did. The next night they vaulted into first, but fell back into second in the final relay. On Saturday it wasn’t even close. The women took the lead after the 200 back and held on to win by 44 over the second-place Purple Aces. Georgia Southern finished third.

“I knew that we could come back. Georgia Southern has some great freestylers, but Davidson, we’ve got the strokers and we were stroking tonight,” Brosche said.

The men didn’t have to climb the comeback road, but Matt Lake made a remarkable comeback of his own. After not swimming last season and being out for much of the first semester with back problems, he turned it on after Christmas and began swimming very well. But in Southern States he was unstoppable. He grabbed wins in the 100 breast (57.34), 200 breast (2:05.71), and 400 IM (4:08.00), and made up a two-second difference in the second leg of the 200 medley relay to help the Wildcats to the meet record and win (1:34.55).

“It feels good to win (the championship), because the last time I swam (1995) we were the winning team, so it feels good to be on the winning team again,” he said.

Schnell placed third in the 500 free (4:39.39), fifth in the 200 free (1:44.40), and fourth in the 200 back (1:53.14). Harper was second behind Lake in the 400 IM (4:08.43), fourth in the 200 IM (1:55.22), and sixth in the 100 free (47.94). Kuykendall stroked in behind Lake and Harper for third in the 400 IM (4:14.33), finished seventh in the 200 fly (1:57.33), and seventh in the 200 back (1:57.13). Terry Dolch was fifth in the 200 back (1:54.81), second in the 100 back (52.07), and eighth in the 200 IM (1:58.03).

In recognition of the team’s success, Rich DeSelm was named Southern States men’s and women’s swimming coach of the year.

“Winning the award is great for our staff,” DeSelm said. “It’s a reflection of a lot of people’s hard work, and it’s also a reflection of the talent of the people that you coach. But I’m happy for the coaches. We worked hard. We want to build two teams and a program that the school can be proud of. I think we’re well on our way.”

“I know that Rich (DeSelm), Sam (Jalet), (assistant coach) Kathy (Burgess), and (diving coach) Ted (Hautau) are some of the best coaches I’ve ever had the privilege of swimming under,” Bo Craig said. “Swimming for Davidson has been incredible. Every year we’ve grown and this team’s developed into what’s becoming a dynasty. This was absolutely the best experience of my athletic life, and it was the best way to go out that I could possibly imagine.”