The following is the Ryan Gist trial, recorded by the Davidsonian and transcribed by staff writer Sarah Ogden. Ellipses indicate
moments on the tape at which the recording is unclear.

Charlotte Hildebrand: Good evening, and welcome to the first open hearing of the Honor Council for the semester. I'd like
to preface tonight’s hearing by going over the facts of the case and the Student Solicitors’ and the Defense Advisors’
job, as well as the facts of the procedure, and why Ryan’s case is in front of the Honor Council
tonight. When you're charged with a Code of Responsibility violation, it either goes to the Judicial Review board, or to
the Honor Council. And Ryan Gist has chosen for his case to go in front of the Honor Council. I'd
also like to preface tonight that we don’t want to see any distracting behavior; that you shouldn't speak; keep the
flags down, don’t wave the flags. That's distracting and it disrupts the procedure that the Honor Council follows. We're supposed
to make our decision based on the evidence presented in the trial, and not based on the audience. If you
are distracting in some way, you'll be asked to leave. But also I'd like to add that, keep the exiting
and entering — keep going in and going out of the door to a minimum, because it’s distracting. Is everybody
ready?

This is a hearing of the Davidson College Honor Council, on September 15 — September 16, at nine o'clock in
the Union 900 Room. Before we begin, I would like to introduce the council. I'll start with the Student Solicitors:
we have Josie and Virginia. To their side is Kara, Deepa, Asa — Asa is the Secretary — Charlotte; to
my left is Tim, and we have Jacob Darling, and Kate — Katie and Matt. The Defense Advisors are Wesley
and Damon. The hearing has been opened at the request of the defendant. At this time I will ask the
student solicitors to read a statement of charge.

Virginia Fisher: The statement of charge is violating Section Three of the Code of Responsibility: Social Responsibility.

Hildebrand: Does the accused admit or deny this charge?

Ryan Gist: Deny.

Hildebrand: This being the case, I will ask the solicitors to present any opening arguments and evidence in support of
the charge.

Fisher: The accused, Ryan Gist, freely admits that he removed the flag from outside of the Davidson Post Office on
Thursday, September 4. The criminal charges against him were dropped. However, they were brought to the Dean of Students Office,
who deemed the actions substantial enough to warrant a Code of Responsibility violation. Part Three, Disciplinary Procedures, Number Five, states
that unless the Dean stays disciplinary proceedings, in deference to criminal proceedings, he proceeds within the...of conduct. It continues to
state that the person charged will then be given the following options: a) to admit the violation charged and to
submit to administrative sanctions by the Honor Council, for Honor Council violations, or by the Judicial Committee, for other Code
of Responsibility violations; or b) to decline to admit the violation, and have the charges...this position, through the Honor Council,
with the power in that — in that body to invoke sanctions within an entirety. Therefore, deeming the case to
be a violation of Section Three of the Code of Responsibility: Social Responsibility, Dean Shandley and Dean Jeffries decided to
proceed with charges, even though criminal proceedings have been dropped. Section Three of the Code of Responsibility states that: “Students
are expected to develop social skills in relations which are mutually beneficial, and which lead to personal maturity. Social conduct
is therefore to be based upon concern for others and must conform to high standards of courtesy and propriety.” Mr.
Gist effectively took the law into his own hands and removed federal property from the post office. Whatever his intentions
may have been are irrelevant, for his actions were ultimately disruptive to the community...neither demonstrating courtesy nor propriety. The second
paragraph to the preamble to the Code of Responsibility states: “The Code of Responsibility is based upon the belief that
Davidson’s educational purpose can best be advanced in a context which emphasizes the responsible use of freedom, as opposed to
license. The aim of this code is to encourage individuals to develop responsible judgment capable of directing their conduct with
a minimum of specific prohibitions. An elaborate system of rules strictly enforced might promote a surface conformity to the standards
of behavior desired, but would not effectively serve to develop the maturity of character which is the aim of the
college. Rather, responsible maturity is more likely to develop when a member of the college community is both free and
obligated to wrestle with principles of conduct and to accept full responsibility for his own actions and decisions.” What you,
the members of the Davidson Honor Council, must decide is if the actions of Mr. Gist were courteous to the
Davidson town and college community, or if they were in violation of the Code of Responsibility, namely Section Three.

Hildebrand: I will now call the Defense Advisors to present any evidence in response to the charge... You may call
any witnesses who you feel will be helpful.

Damon Colbert: On September 16, 1996, Ryan Gist took this oath as confirmation of his patriotic duty and enlistment in
the armed forces of the United States. I quote: “I, Ryan Cooper Gist, do solemnly swear or affirm that I
will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign or domestic; and I will bear
true faith and allegiance to the same; and I will obey the orders of the President of the United States,
and the orders of the officers appointed over me, according to regulations and the Uniform Code of Military Justice. So
help me God.” End quote. Because of this tremendous sense of patriotic duty, Ryan Gist, as a cadet in the
United States Armed Forces, felt compelled to remove the U.S. flag being flown the night of September 4, 1997, when
he arrived at the U.S. post office in Davidson, North Carolina. Let it be known that on that night, the
flag was being flown in violation of Section 1748 of the U.S. Code. The Code reads, quote: “The flag may
be displayed 24 hours a day if properly illuminated during the hours of darkness.” End quote. Mr. Gist’s actions were
not detrimental to any persons or institution, nor were they executed with malicious intent. If he had acted improperly, he
would be subject to federal prosecution; he is not. Criminal charges were never found. The defense fervently believes, given the
circumstances surrounding this situation, that Mr. Gist’s actions were conducted in good faith. Thus he is not deserving of any
sanctions.

Hildebrand: At this time, would you like to call any witnesses?

Colbert: Yes, we will. We will call Ryan Gist.

Hildebrand: Ryan, you’ve already been introduced to the council. At this point, Asa will read the oath.

Asa Hercules: Ryan Gist, do you swear, as a member of the Davidson College community, that everything you say here
is true to the best of your knowledge?

Ryan Gist: I do.

Hildebrand: The defense may now question the witness.

Defense advisor: Mr. Gist, could you please describe to us what happened on the night of September 4, 1997?

Gist: On Thursday, Brian Cowan, Tom Dugan, and myself, were out running errands. We came to the post office, approximately
10 o’clock at night. They stayed in the car; I went in to get my mail. I went in, I
got my mail, and I came out and noticed the flag was flying at 10 o’clock at night. I know
that’s, first of all, a violation of law, and more importantly, it’s disrespectful to the flag. I went over there,
in full view of people in the area at the time, took the flag down, and brought it to my
truck. At my truck, I informed Dugan and Mr. Cowan about my intentions to bring the flag back as soon
as the post office opened in the morning, inform the postmaster of the error, give it to him so he
can put it up, and fly it properly with respect. At that time, we drove back to Flowe 102. I
folded the flag up, with the assistance of Mr. Brown, placed it on the table, and left for Shearer Street.
At Shearer Street, I was picked up by the police. The police took me in their car to Flowe 102,
picked up Mr. Dugan and Mr. Cowan. At that time, I went to the police station. At the police station,
they questioned Mr. Dugan; they questioned Mr. Cowan separately. They found that I had no malicious intent. They also called
the postmaster at this time, I believe it was 11 o'clock p.m. They called the postmaster up. They said they
did not think my intentions — This is all they said: They said, “We have the person who stole the
flag in custody.”

Fisher: Objection. Speculation. Did you speak with the postmaster yourself?

Gist: ...Can I say what the police told me?

Colbert: I’m sorry.

Hildebrand: Do you have the police report?

Colbert: Yes, we do, but first of all, can — can she directly address questions after an objection?

Hildebrand: No, she was just...

Fisher: I was just objecting on that basis...

Colbert: But she...with a question.

Fisher: I'm objecting on the basis that...

Defense advisor: Thank you. Thank you. I’m sorry.

Hildebrand: But good question...

Gist: I can rephrase that so it’s not hearsay.

Colbert: For clarification purposes, Ryan, what were you intending to do with the flag?

Gist: I was intending to take it down, take it back the next morning, take it to the postmaster, and...fly
the flag with respect.

Colbert: Okay. How long were you detained by the Davidson town police?

Gist: I'd say from, maybe, 10:30 to 11:30, maybe along there.

Colbert: From the police, did you perceive — what did you perceive to be the status of the situation?

Gist: That this was over. This was due to a couple factors: one, the postmaster had declared the situation over;Second
of all, the police told me that the situation was over. If I had any problems with teachers or coaches
wanting to know what the situation was, they said they would be glad to explain it to them, explain that
it was a mistake.

Colbert: Have you made any contact with the post office subsequent to the incident?

Gist: I did. After my second meeting with Dean Jeffries, I was worried about how the case was being handled,
that possibly the post office didn’t know my intentions. I went there; the first thing I said was to clarify
my intent, that I meant no disrespect to the post office, or to the flag. After I told him that,
he immediately said, “We didn’t see any taken.” He then asked me the proper way to fly the flag, and
informed me that they were putting a light on the flag as we speak.

Colbert: That's fine. I would like to enter into evidence a signed statement by Ted Klopfer, the officer in charge
of the Davidson Post Office. May I read it?

Hildebrand: Yes, you may.

Colbert: “The post office’s position on this matter is that the post office will not press charges. The incident is
over. Ted Klopfer, signed 9-16-97." And we would also like to enter into evidence the police report, filled out by
Officer Stan Moore, concerning the incident. We would ask that each member of the Council get to read that thoroughly.

Josie Hoover: What is that... because, according to the Dean's administrative conference... when he says that — that the town
of Davidson cannot deal with it according to Davidson College codes, that the armed force — that the police and
the postmaster have nothing to do with this. It’s strictly what Ryan did, and how that affects Davidson College.

Hildebrand: Right. And you can bring that up in your defense, but they can still submit that as evidence.

Hoover: OK...

Colbert: Actually, this is a Davidson College police report, not a Davidson town police report.

Hildebrand: Do you have any more questions?

Colbert: We have nothing.

Hildebrand: Do you have any more...?

Colbert: Is there another copy somewhere of the police report?

Hildebrand: We only have just one copy.

Colbert: There should be two copies.

Fisher: Well, we have one of them.

Colbert: Can I see that, please?... Thank you... We have no further questions...

Defense advisor: Is it possible for us to point out that...?

Hildebrand: Well, Ryan is on the stand... The student solicitors may now question the witness... OK, the Council asked for
a couple of minutes to read over the material being submitted... OK, the Council has had a chance to read
over the evidence?

Defense advisor: I’m sorry... Is it possible that we may read that evidence so that...

Hildebrand: — everyone's aware of —

Colbert: Yes, yes. I’m sorry. I’m sorry.

Hildebrand: Is everyone able to hear what's being said?

Audience: No.

Hildebrand: Because your back is to them...

Defense advisor: This report was filed on September the fourth — well, it’s regarding the incident that happened on September
4, 1997.

Hildebrand: (to audience) Can you still hear?

Audience: No.

Defense advisor: “The following report by C437 (S.T. Moore): On the above date, at the above time, the Davidson police
requested the assistance of the campus police in locating two Davidson College students. The two students, along with another student,
who resides off-campus, were being sought in reference to a larceny which took place earlier. The officers were able to
locate the students. The Davidson police transported the three to their station where they were detained for further investigations.

“Supplementary information: The individuals from the above report were later identified as Ryan C. Gist, Thomas J. Dugan, and Brian
Cowan. The three were thought to have stolen the U.S. flag from the Davidson Post Office; however, further investigations revealed
that Gist had taken the flag down as he felt it was his patriotic duty. Gist, who is an ROTC
cadet, explained that the flag is not supposed to be flown at night unless there is light present. Mr. Gist
took the flag down and folded it with intentions of returning it to the post office authorities the following morning.
Once post office officials were notified, there was an agreement that statements be taken from each of the students and
the flag be returned.”

Hildebrand: Evidence has been presented as read. At this point, the student solicitors may question the witness.

Fisher: As an ROTC cadet, when you took the flag down, were you trained to fold it immediately?

Gist: Not necessarily.

Fisher: So what did you do with the flag in your vehicle? You said that you waited till you got
back to your apartment to fold the flag.

Gist: I believe Mr. Dugan held it.

Hoover: I'm not really familiar with the whole ROTC... program, and... I was just wondering, if you're in... you were
saying in your opening statement that he acted as a member of the armed forces. Is the ROTC in the
set of armed forces?

Colbert: I'm sorry, is she allowed to address questions to me or to...

Hoover: OK, you're an ROTC cadet. Are you actually, like, a member of the armed forces?

Gist: As you heard from the oath that I signed earlier, I'm a member of the reserve forces as a
cadet.

Hildebrand: Which means that you're not on active duty...

Gist: I mean, there’s active duty, and you have reserve duty. Both... it’s the same thing, different kinds of service.

Hildebrand: But we're still civilians.

Hoover: But if you... but on the night of September 4, you weren’t in the armed forces? You were in
ROTC? Or is that separated, or is that the same? How does that work?

Gist: You're always in it.

Hoover: The armed forces?

Gist: The armed forces.

Hoover: OK.

Fisher: So back to the question of folding the flag: if you were really as concerned with the display of
the flag, wouldn’t you have remembered where you put the flag in the car?

Gist: Are you implying that I disrespected the flag?

Fisher: I’m... sure. I mean... I was just asking, like...

Gist: Repeat the question. Repeat the question.

Fisher: OK.

Colbert: I’m sorry; we object to that.

Hildebrand: She’s going to rephrase the question.

Fisher: I'll rephrase it... I guess you were concerned about the flag being flown improperly, but do you remember exactly
where it was placed in the vehicle, when it was folded, where it was placed in your apartment?

Gist: I said that, in the apartment, Mr. Brown, I believe, stood up. I asked him to assist me. He
stood up; flag out, folded it, folded it, put it in a triangle, placed it on the kitchen table. In
a perfect triangle.

Fisher: Is there any other way you could have handled this incident?

Gist: For any action, there are a lot of ways you could handle it. There are different courses of actions
you take. The action I took didn’t hurt anybody — it did good, and I believe in it.

Fisher: But it didn’t hurt anyone — I mean, OK, well, the police report states that: “On the above date,
at the above time, the Davidson police requested the assistance of the campus police in locating two Davidson College students.”
So it didn’t cause anyone — Do you still feel it didn’t cause anyone any trouble, even though the police
were notified, and then...?

Gist: As the police have stated, it was basically a mistake...

Hoover: How do you — How does one quantify, I guess, the trouble that you’ve caused?... I don’t know, I’m
just trying to understand how what you did wouldn't affect anybody.

Gist: I hope it affected a lot of people. I can see from these proceedings that it did.

Hoover: But, I’m just wondering, did it — does it not affect the next day, when the flag was not
there?

Colbert: Objection. Is that a leading question: “Does it not affect the next day?”

Hildebrand: You have to be careful in making statements. I understand what you're trying to get at, and I think
it’s a valid point, but you’re going to have to think of a way to phrase your question so that
it’s in a question format.

Fisher: Are you aware that by the police coming to locate you on campus, it did make this matter a
College matter...?

Colbert: Objection. That was again a leading question.

Hildebrand: No, she’s asking, “Are you aware.” It's not a “did you” or “didn’t you” —

Colbert: She said, “Did that not mean...”

Fisher: No, “Are you aware...”

Hildebrand: “Are you aware...”

Colbert: OK.

Gist: Of what?

Fisher: That removing the flag from the police station, bringing it onto campus — regardless of police interaction, criminal charges
— does, indeed, make it a College matter?

Gist: If I answer yes to her question, it’s a leading question. What happened was, when I took the flag,
they didn’t know my intentions. To them, it was a larceny, meaning felonious removal of property from said person with
removal, but with intent to permanently deprive the person of said property. So, therefore, they were right in coming to
get me. That’s how the system works.

Hildebrand: A leading question isn’t one that requires a Yes or No answer, because you could say, “Are you guilty
of this violation?” And you say, “No.” So that’s not necessarily a... because it’s not a “didn’t you” or —

Fisher: No, it was a “were you aware”... OK. Were you aware that removing the flag from the post office,
bringing it onto Davidson property, makes this a Davidson College matter that can be held accountable through the Dean of
Students office, regardless of the charges that...

Gist: Yes. Also...

Fisher: Thanks, that’s all.

Hildebrand: Does this — Did that answer the question? At this point, the Council may now question the witness.

Asa Hercules: I'll ask a question. Can you imagine that there’s other ways you could have gone about doing this?
Can you tell the Council what those points are?

Gist: Yeah, one of those mentioned to me was, the next morning, I could've called the post office and expressed
my concerns.

Hercules: Why didn’t you follow that one?

Gist: My course of action...
