RIS & LIVING MONDAY, MARCH 17, 1997

Fearless investigators bury themselves among the denizens of the night in Charlotte's gothic subculture

By TERESA WHITE
Co-Editor-in-Chief

“We’re really not strange people.” This from Eric Beckwith, who is dressed head to toe in black, wearing a floor-length
black velvet cape, and carrying a silver-headed cane and a matching coffin-shaped pocketbook. “I believe you,” I lied.

Beckwith is one of a group of friends kind enough to give me a guided tour through part of Charlotte’s
goth/industrial world. It is a realm I had never ventured into or even thought about before The Davidsonian received two
angry letters in response to Greg Garrison’s Opinions article “An Alternative to Alternative,” which recounts Garrison’s experience interviewing Septic Tank
night club manager Devin Thompson and his two “bizarre-as-hell buddies.”

Steve Miller’s letter replied, “What you’ve given us is an ... opinion of an entire group of people you’ve never
even met, based on the exploits of one miscreant. Devin Thompson is not an exemplary model of what the underground
is about.” An e-mailed letter from Will Eisenhour (signed “a concerned weirdo”) echoed Miller’s sentiment and included a challenge/invitation to
explore Charlotte’s gothic subculture and tell what the scene and the people are really like.

And so I ended up in a grease joint called The Athens with around 20 people trying very hard to
convince me that they aren’t that strange, despite the pallbearer appearances. While chugging cups of coffee in preparation of the
long night ahead, Beckwith, Miller, Eisenhour and others tried to define to me what goth “is.” “It’s about the music,
the art,” said Beckwith. “And intellect,” added Miller. “It’s kind of a mood. Like tonight we’re doing a bunch of
things we like doing, but don’t usually do, but you might get a feel for us from it,” Eisenhour explained.

We continued the conversation as we wandered around Elmwood Cemetery with Miller pointing out some of the gravestones and sculptures
he helped restore there (favorite highlight: inscription reading, “crushed by elephant”). “People just have the wrong image of us. Time
recently ran an article about Marilyn Manson that made him out to be the goth poster child. That’s not most
of us,” complained Roxanne Risky, stepping over a headstone.

Risky, whose appearance and demeanor reflect the character Lydia on the cartoon “Beetlejuice,” was one of the primary members of
my welcoming committee and was accosted on the way out of Elmwood by a policeman who stopped, rolled down the
window, took a look at her and her companions, screamed “Monsters!” and drove away.

Next stop: Blanche’s house, a haunted mansion that has been remodeled into a shopping center. Miller knew all about the
late Blanche and her post-partum antics and told stories while we hovered together. “She used to hold seances in that
room up there. It used to be wallpapered in leather. Blanche is a funny ghost.”

On the way out, Sha Dunlap, another of the friendly group on the tour with me asked, “You don’t think
we’re really weird do you?” Weird is a relative term.

Our valiant Arts & Living Editor Heather Larson and Liz Sale joined us for the next stage in the journey:
the Pterodactyl, a frequented Friday goth nightspot. Things there didn’t seem much different from any other nightclub until I walked
upstairs, labelled “The Crypt,” became completely disoriented by the two strobe lights (unsynchronized with each other or the music), and
ran into the wall. Repeatedly.

Once I recovered from the lights, I was overwhelmed by the...people. I haven’t seen a group of people so honestly
huggy and sincerely friendly since my Sesame Street days. Dumbfounded, I quizzed Risky about the couples in the room. “Only
two right now. We just watch out for each other here.” It goes back to what Beckwith told me back
at The Athens, that the largest common denominator among goths is that “we’ve been called freaks so much, even before
we were into this, that we start to believe it” and to embrace it, and so each other. And by
the end of the night, me. Very strange. Very cool.

Flanagan presents campus Caribbean cinema festival

By STEPHEN CEFALU
Guest Writer

Davidson College got a taste of the tropics at the end of February when a two-day Caribbean film festival was
held in the Perkins Auditorium. The event was conceived and organized by Dr. Brenda Flanagan, Professor of English, who hopes
for the festival to become an annual tradition at Davidson. Flanagan says the event was primarily designed as an opportunity
for cultural enrichment. “It’s so important that students understand how culture informs the literature they read,” states Flanagan. “The way
in which this process works is made all the more apparent through the medium of film.”

Instrumental to the success of the two-day festival were two visiting scholars of the Caribbean, Dr. Rei Berroa and Dr.
Keith Warner, who both hail from George Mason University. These visiting professors provided prefatory remarks to each feature film and
led audience discussions afterward. Both Berroa and Warner say they very much enjoyed their visit to Davidson and much anticipate
returning to campus for such future events. “What made the event so successful,” says Dr. Mary Vasquez, Spanish professor, “was
the speakers’ sharing valuable views on the Caribbean gained from their lived experiences. Their commentary provided much insight into the
rich and varied texture of Caribbean culture.”

The feature film on the festival’s opening day, Feb. 26, was the Cuban film “Portrait of Teresa.” The event concluded
the following day with the showing of the Jamaican “The Harder They Come.” According to Berroa and Warner, both films
stand as unique examples of how film producers were able to overcome financial constraints and political censorship to furnish model
works of cinematic art to the general public within their respective countries. Generally regarded as the capstone of the two
days of festivities was Berroa and Warner’s visit with a combined class of Caribbean Literature and 20th Century Spanish Literature
students. This informal class session included a variety of music, poetry, and discourse aimed at dispelling popular misconceptions about life
in the Caribbean. Dr. Brenda Flanagan describes the student response to the assembly as “most enthusiastic.”

A wide range of Davidson community members have voiced praise over the Caribbean film festival and are already lobbying for
a future encore. Among them are Rev. L. Bryant Parker, Pastor of Davidson Presbyterian Church, U.S.A., who called the event
“provocative,” and Mrs. Cheryl Branz, Davidson Staff Assistant, who described the speakers as “spirited.” Caribbean film festival sponsors included: the
Public Lectures Committee, Ethnic Studies Program, Department of Spanish, Black Student Coalition, Office of the Dean of Students, Dean Rusk
Program, and Office of the Vice-President for Academic Affairs.
