4

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ramirez furthers
brain research

Findings cited in national journal

By JEFFREY COKER
Staff Writer

In a study published in the Dec. 24 edition of Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, Davidson psychology professor
Julio Ramirez furthered science’s quest to repair brain damage in cases such as Alzheimer’s disease.

The study showed for the first time that rats suffering brain trauma recover their memory remarkably quicker when the brain’s
“sprouting” process is accelerated.

Sprouting occurs in the brain when neurons grow new connections to replace damaged ones and restore function following trauma and
disease.

Little is currently known about how to increase the brain’s ability to repair itself. Ramirez explained, "Our long-term goal is
to contribute to the understanding of how recovery from brain injury might be promoted.”

Donald Stein, a renowned neuroscientist at Emory University, said Ramirez’s work furthers our understanding of how stimulating the “right” kind
of sprouting following brain injury may lead to enhanced recovery.

Alzheimer’s disease causes nerve loss in the parts of the brain associated with cognitive functioning and memory. It is the
world’s leading cause of dementia in the elderly, affecting 15% of those over 65 and 50% of those over 80.

Dr. Ramirez’s work may assist other researchers in treating the terminal disease.

Four of his former Davidson students are acknowledged as co-authors of the paper: Timothy Carrigan, Melinda Kelley, Katherine MacDonald, and
Meredith McQuilkin. All are now doctoral candidates or Ph.D.s in either psychology or neuroscience. “My students were my colleagues through
the whole process,” said Ramirez.

He is currently beginning a new initiative to find the best pharmaceuticals to promote sprouting. Ramirez added, “We hope to
screen possible pharmacological agents for their ability to facilitate recovery of function and form new brain cell connections after brain
injury.”

Six current Davidson students are assisting in the new research, including Bill Abrams and Aaron Kenner, who are completing their
senior theses.

NEWS

THE PLEASURE OF HOPS AND BARLEY

MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1997

Will Nolen

Freshmen speed in rare! co and Nees Fucheiue leant at ey of the ela an a ours

Honor Council Trials Fall 1996

Charge Plea Sanctions

Code of Responsibility Violation Not Guilty None

Plagiarism Guilty F in cheated course
Authorized withdrawals in all other courses
Counseling
Social Probation for remaining semester

Cheating Guilty F in cheated course
Suspension for Spring 1997

R E A C H

get involved

OFFICER AND COORDINATOR

be reach out’s secretary, treasurer, historian,

APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE

member at large, or publicity chair

IN THE DEAN OF STUDENTS OFFICE.

or coordinate one of reach out’s existing programs

REACH OUT OFFICE AND COMMUNITY SERVICE OFFICE

or create a program of your own!

SIGN UP JAN. 27-JAN. 31 (THIS WEEK)

QUESTIONS? Ask BJ Huff, Sakira Peay, Katie Brasfield, Bill Abrams, or Catherine Turner in the Community Service Office 02 Union
extension 2460
