OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1997 Joslyn Ogden

Lessons from the Glades

Over Christmas break, I had the good fortune of going on a trip to the Everglades in South Florida. Trip
is really not the right word. Journey seems more precise to me. It was a journey south, a journey to
a place where few have been, a journey deep into my mind. Those who have been there carry it with
them as a place etched forever into their minds. The Everglades has so many lessons to teach all who dare
to creep upon its islands of mangroves, paddle through its waters, be bitten by its bugs, sit under its sun,
and sleep within its sand.

Paradise cannot be found here, nor anywhere on earth. The ’Glades are not free from pollution, annoying motor-boaters who leave
a wake disturbing my canoe, or the terrifying storm that rearranges the landscape. However, like many secluded places, the Everglades
magnified my appreciation for land, sea, and sky. The sun shone so brightly in the day even SPF 30 could
not prevent sunburn. It provided immeasurable warmth and cast dramatic shadows. The sunsets appeared like no others I have noticed,
with magnificent pink rays protruding from the horizon and filling the vast expanse of the sky. As the luscious pink
and bright orange hues faded into the darkness, stars appeared. Living in a metro area, I wonder the significance of
the Creator’s promise to Abraham to make his people as numerous as the stars in the sky, for there are
so few stars. But here I peer into the night and am reminded of how vast the universe is and
how much I have left to explore. Counting the stars would be an impossible task, but knowing the names of
the constellations is not.

The birds woke me each night singing, crying, and screeching. In the morning, I was greeted by flocks of seagulls
flying with great direction to a predestined spot in their realm. The pelicans would catch the fish they needed for
the day to survive. The black hawks would encircle the evening meal. I seek to be like the birds: have
direction toward what inevitably lays before me, be content with this day’s tasks and rewards, and take only what I
need from others to survive.

Water surrounding me every day here is life-giving and life-taking. The simple molecular combination of two hydrogens and one oxygen
seems to understand a balance that people spend years trying to attain. I feel the salt water splash in my
eyes and am irritated. Then moments later these same eyes see a school of porpoises swimming alongside the canoe and
I know that water holds the secret of life. The combination of molecules that compose the seawater is remarkably similar
to the water in the womb of expectant mothers. Everyone has had experience in this water and perhaps on a
subconscious level understands its life-giving properties. The water of the Everglades feels similar to the water of baptism. I am
refreshed as I go for a swim after a long day of using muscle power and teamwork to navigate to
this island.

The camaraderie that I developed on this trip is no less remarkable than my observations of the land that cradled
and nourished us on this journey. Eleven others accompanied me, and I am sure that their experiences varied as greatly
as the difference in the weather from icy Atlanta to the sunny ‘Glades. There were four on the trip who
came from a fraternity here at Davidson. I had my preconceived and stereotypical notions about the men who compose that
fraternity blown away like the leaves from the mangroves in a storm. I learned to appreciate each person on the
trip as an individual, not lumping them into a category based on an organization of which they are part. From
other people, I learned the respect for others that is necessary to function in our society. Each person on this
trip taught me lessons I am unable to articulate, yet they hold great worth.

As I stare into the mirror after I have returned, I am almost unrecognizable: my hair has not been washed
with soap, but rather with salt water; my skin is tan from the gracious winter sun; my eyes have burned
with the salt not of tears, but rather of water and have seen the majestic beauty of the birds and
porpoises; my mind has been changed by the people I would have had no other way to meet; finally, my
heart has been touched by all of these things. I seek to see the beauty of sunsets here in Davidson,
to allow myself to enjoy days with rain, as well as those with sun, to enjoy the privilege of using
the Lake Campus, to refrain from judgment of others and rather to look to see what they are willing to
share with me. Though my literal journey to the Everglades has ended, I will continue to journey and learn through
the lessons the Everglades have taught me.mas Party a few weeks ago. What a lovely sight! Jolly old St. Nick
perched high atop Chambers rifling galactic prophylactics down upon a cluster of unsuspecting bystanders... Young children lying face down bawling
their eyes out on Chambers lawn, screaming “Mommy, mommy, Santa just hit me in the eye with a shower cap”...
Enraged fathers pummeling their way through the crowd to confront the rooftop Trojan Claus from the steps of Chambers below,
shaking a condom menacingly in their right fists and yelling up, “OK, wise guy, you get your jolly old ass
down here right now and explain to my 4-year-old why Daddy can’t make her an animal balloon out of this
thing, and I don’t want any shenanigans, Claus. You damn well better have diagrams prepared.”

Did anyone happen to catch Kristen Richardson’s “sparkling” critique of Eric Sapp’s commentary on the whole Community Christmas-Condom Distribution extravaganza?
For those who missed it, one particular statement in her critique read as follows, "It is not realistic to demand
or even expect monogamy of anyone." What an irresponsible thing to say! And so I say to you, Kristen, in
the immortal words Hamlet addressed to Ophelia, “Get thee to a nunnery.” Sure, Kristen, Davidson student life is just one
big orgy, right, yeah. And by the way, how noble of you, as an Opinions editor, to throw all journalistic
principles aside in order to ravenously attack Eric Sapp’s very emotion-laden letter. That’s the way to make students feel comfortable
submitting their work to Opinions! (Don’t edit me, now!) I say get off your editorial high horse, Kristen, and issue
a formal apology to Eric Sapp and all other members of the Davidson community whom you may have offended by
presenting your views on sex as representative of those of the larger Davidson community.

Only one more point of carping: the Christmas cookies for professors thing. Yes, there are still some students who do
it, and hey, that’s fine, that’s their prerogative. Maybe they really don’t see it as in any way trying to
grease the scales (a.k.a. prostituting themselves to the prof) come finals time. As for me, let me go on record
as saying the only present I could ever possibly envision myself giving to a professor during the holidays would be
a $100 bill stapled unabashedly on the front of my sealed exam envelope with a note attached saying, “Dear Prof,
I have a feeling I did real, real well on this exam. In fact, I think we both know it.”

Wouldn’t you like to be a pepper too? Write for Opinions. Call -2148.

I think people use the phrase Real World when it suits their purposes. I do it too. I'll say something
like “Yeah, but this isn’t the real world.” Please. Who am I kidding? It’s a ridiculous phrase. The world is
made up of many, many spheres of reality that overlap each other. Wherever I am, whatever I am doing, that
situation is my current real world. Sometimes I think the Real World is like.” Who’s the jerk in that situation?
Me. That person just has a different life, and by extension, a different world than I do. It is a
thought process that I have less and less nowadays, as I become more convinced that whatever your life is at
that moment, that is your version of the real world.

I’ve been told several times by different teachers that they, or that Davidson isn’t the real world because there are
so many wealthy people and so many smart people. It's all beautiful and we’re all the same age. I get
to learn about great stuff and then go home and watch Days of Our Lives in the middle of the
afternoon. But really, since I’m here and this is my life right now, then it is my own real world.
I don’t know why we often think that there is some formula or recipe that equals the real world; that
there has to be a certain amount of poor people or uneducated people or hardship to qualify as a real
world situation.

Sometimes I become a real world snob. I’ll meet someone who is very wealthy, went to an elite boarding school
and leads an extremely privileged life. I'll think to myself “that person has no concept of what the real world
is like.” Who’s the jerk in that situation? Me. That person just has a different life, and by extension, a
different world than I do. It is a thought process that I have less and less nowadays, as I become
more convinced that whatever your life is at that moment, that is your version of the real world.

I’m confused. Which real world? The business world? The art world? Those are more specific. Maybe they just mean the
general non-Davidson world. If that is the case, however, certain things need to be streamlined. I wonder if they do
your laundry for you in this world. I wonder if they give you computers. Do boys (and girls) run around
naked in the dead of winter in this world? I love my world right now, and I plan to love
my world after I graduate, and if I don’t, I'll just work hard to change it. Whatever my world ends
up being, I really hope that they CELEBRATE MARTIN LUTHER KING’S BIRTHDAY THERE.
