6 THE DAVIDSONIAN — ELSEWHERE MONDAY, APRIL 28, 1997

Senate approves Chemical Weapons Treaty

The Senate ratified the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) with a 74-26 vote last Thursday, giving President Clinton a significant foreign policy victory. The vote is among the first major actions taken by the new Congress. The treaty bans the use, stockpiling, transfer, and development of chemical weapons. It would set up an international monitoring agency to enforce the treaty.

It passed after vigorous pressure from public interest groups, the White House, and Senate Democrats pressured Jesse Helms (R-N.C.), chair of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, to allow a vote on the question. Helms let the bill out from his deliberations in the committee. He still opposed the bill to the very end, stating it would make our country vulnerable to rogue states.

All the Senate Democrats voted for the treaty, which needs a two-thirds majority for ratification, as did half of the Senate Republicans. Many in the Republican party expressed reservations about the bill, but were swayed when former Presidents Bush and Ford and former Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole came out in support of the agreement. The treaty has been signed by more than seventy countries and will go into effect tomorrow. Only a few completely isolationist or secluded nations have declined to back the treaty. President Clinton promised to withdraw from the pact if it did not actually stop the proliferation of nuclear weapons.

Source: New York Times

Swift strike ends stand-off in Peru

The Peruvian army stormed the Japanese ambassador’s residence Wednesday, freeing the remaining hostages held by the Tupac Amaru rebels. The strike was successful, as 71 of the 72 hostages eventually were released from the residence. President Alberto Fujimori had been planning the raid for months, with the attack team undergoing a severe training regimen in preparation for the storming of the residence. The hostages had been held in the compound since December 17.

The raid was relatively successful. Two soldiers and one hostage died in the brief struggle, however. All fourteen rebels, including two teenage girls, were killed. At question, though, is whether the girls were resisting. Reports indicate they yelled, “We surrender!” before they got shot.

The raid has been popular for President Alberto Fujimori. His approval rating doubled one day after he finally brought out his “tough guy” image, which many believed helped him win his first election. “The raid was inevitable,” he said. “We’re sorry it was necessary. It was a tragic victory.”

In more general terms, the siege does mark another step toward Fujimori’s campaign promise to rid the country of the extreme terrorist element. Fujimori has made sort of a career by finding and stopping left-wing extremists like the Marxist Tupac Amaru.

Source: USA Today

HERE, DEPRIVED YOUNG READERS, I GIVE YOU THIS USED BUT SERVICEABLE BOOK TO HELP YOU PULL YOURSELF UP. I WOULD'VE SCHEDULED FOR MORE CREDITS THIS SEMESTER, BUT I FIGURED I ALREADY HAD ENOUGH PROBLEMS WITH VISA, MASTERCARD, AND AMERICAN EXPRESS.

The future starts now. Sign up with Mike Kruse or Liz Sale to help with next semester’s Freshmen Issue. Get in on the ground floor — and into your room early. (That means you get to choose the good side of the room before your roommate arrives. Just one of the little perks of working for The Davidsonian.)

International ... U.S. protests France’s trade accord with Cuba

France has reached a trade agreement with Cuba, the latest salvo in its dispute with Washington over a U.S. embargo against the communist island.nation. The U.S. government criticized the pact and said France was taking the wrong course. “We have an economic boycott in place on Cuba,” said Nicholas Burns, a State Department spokesman. “We believe that is the right policy. We do not favor any other countries normalizing their relationship with Cuba.” He called Fidel Castro, dictator of the country, a major violator of human rights. French officials said the pact was not designed to stir up trouble with the U.S.

Zairian rebels capture key areas
Rebel forces announced the capture of three gateway towns to Kinshasa, and military analysts say guerrillas are now in a position to choke off much of the capital’s essential supplies. Most observers think it is only a matter of time before the dictatorial regime that rules Zaire loses its power. The opposing sides have been unable to reach a compromise solution.

National
Clinton promises to stand up for gay rights
President Clinton says he will lobby hard for the passage of a bill that would outlaw employment discrimination against homosexuals. “Such bias must be eliminated from our country and from our hearts,” he said. Conservative groups will fight the legislation, saying it unfairly forces employers to have inappropriate on-the-job discussions about sexuality and gives homosexuals advantages in hiring. A poll has found that 68% of Americans support the legislation.

Official again: Medicare fund could go broke
For the second year, the trustees of the Medicare program say its hospital trust fund will go broke in 2001 if Congress does not scale back spending. It aimed to spark new calls for bipartisan agreements as to how to curb the program’s cost. The President has proposed saving $100 billion in reduced payments to providers and congressional Republicans are calling for $135 billion in reductions, preferring a managed care approach to the problem. The plans would probably extend the fund’s solvency for seven to eight more years.

Source for all above: USA Today

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 Guinness or Baldwin
5 Winnow
9 Dueling
13 Solitary
14 Contradict
15 Weighty work
16 Bard's river
17 Kilns
18 Enthusiastic
19 Fated
21 Bus fare
23 First home
24 Baseball team
25 Grade
28 Household servant
32 Dorothy's home
34 Words of estimate
35 Literary
36 Election winners
37 Claw
39 Draft initials
41 Predicament
42 "I'm a—Doodie"
45 Tied
49 Printing direction
51 Conquer
54 Thinks
58 Sharif of films
59 Acting award
61 Glen
62 Queue
63 Verdi work
64 Issue
65 Legal document
66 Spar
67 Red and Black

DOWN
1 "When I was—"
2 Affection
3 Slaughter of baseball
4 Cores
5 Lucky number
6 "—Three Lives"
7 Flipper
8 Evidence
9 Finances
12 Beatty film
14 Skeleton part
20 Thought
22 "—, tte"
24 "—, tte"
25 Evade
26 Light watercraft
27 Beginning
28 Handed (out)
29 Chores
30 Map
31 Court concerns
33 Attic, e.g.
38 Tavern brews
41 Roll call word
43 Shake—(hurry up!)
44 Aborigines
46 Deep loathing
49 Sting
50 Scarlett's home
51 Shape
52 Girlfriend, in Paris
53 Rational
54 Frosts a cake
55 Title
56 Director Kazan
57 Coteries
60 Health farm

© 1997 Tribune Media Services, Inc.