; "DAVIDSONIAN

TUESDAY

Wildcats gunning for fourth straight

1997 Women’s NCAA play-in game awaits conference champion

By Jay CANTRELL
Sports Editor

The women’s soccer team has won three consecutive Southern Conference championships and returns arguably its best squad in years. But no one is picking the Wildcats to repeat.

That’s because UNC Greensboro, a national powerhouse ranked 21st in the pre-season polls, enters the conference this season.

“It’s come at a good time for us and the conference,” coach Kevin Hundley said of the new arrival. “We're going to have to be better than we’ve been in the past.

“Despite winning three championships and returning our most experienced team, we’re not going to be picked to win the conference.”

But instead of cowering in the shadow of a national contender, the Wildcats are looking for yet another league title and a shot at the NCAA tournament in a play-in game against the Big South titleist.

“For the first time it’s in our hands and not in a selection committee's,” Hundley said. And the players know it.

“We want a bid to the NCAAs,” said midfielder Amy Balsinger, a member of last year’s all-tournament team. Fellow midfielder and roommate Kelly Rennick reiterated the team’s desire to play in the NCAAs.

“Kelly and I want to maintain control of the ball,” Balsinger explained. “We want to score, but as center midfielders we also need to create plays by dominating the middle of the field.”

In preparation for this year, both starters practiced with the men’s team over the summer. Star goalkeeper Allie Noznesky is one teammate who has taken notice.

“You can really see it in Kelly and Amy’s play. They’re a lot quicker and a lot more decisive.”

As freshmen last season, Rennick and Balsinger started every game, as did leading scorer Ginny Dye. Dye will play midfield and forward this year, and she is willing to sacrifice personal glory for the improvement of the team.

“I’m not going to put the ball in the net so I can be the leading scorer,” she said. “I’m going to do it so we can win games.”

Dye and Rennick were both all-conference selections last season as freshmen, and Noznesky (see story) was named conference player of the year.

“We’ve got very high expectations of Allie in goal,” Hundley said.

But that doesn’t bother the senior captain at all.

“I just really love it. It’s a power trip,” Noznesky explained. “Being a goalkeeper, you tune everything out and every time the ball goes by you, that’s a game you lost. You can be on for 88 minutes, and if you’re off for two, you’re screwed and the team’s done.

“I do like the challenge of having to be on for 90 minutes and knowing that if I play a good game, chances are we can come out on top. I really do enjoy knowing that that rests on my shoulders.”

Fellow senior Amy Kanoff also enjoys having Noznesky tend the net.

“At conference tournament time she really steps up,” she said. “We didn’t even have a goal scored on us in last year’s tournament.”

Kanoff, Noznesky, and stopper Kelly Schmidt are the senior captains on this year’s squad. While everyone on the team wants to go to the NCAAs, Schmidt is more concerned with the regular season for now.

“We need to win every game in our conference,” she said. “With UNCG coming in, no one is expecting us to win it, so there’s less pressure on us. But we need to take it one game at a time.”

Kanoff also noted that a strong non-conference schedule will help in the long run.

“We usually hold our own against those teams until the end of the game,” she said, referring to the five overtime games that they lost last year, including ones against North Carolina St. and UNCG.

“We just didn’t have it at the end,” Schmidt agreed. “This year we'll have the depth to win those games.”

The reason for such depth is the play of the freshmen. Forward Mandy Kinane and Carrie Porath could enter the fray at forward, while Ida Wainschel has looked solid on defense. Goalkeepers Winnie Corrigan and sophomore Chesley Garrett are more than adequate backups for Noznesky.

“We're going to be a really deep team,” Noznesky said. “I think we have the best team that we’ve had so far. We should finish one or two in the conference. And if we don’t, I think that’s a failure on our part. When I was a freshman, we had people starting who couldn't even make theteam now.” That improvement has given the Wildcats an opportunity to do something that no other Davidson women’s team has done: make the NCAA tournament at the Division I level. “I don’t think UNCG is unbeatable,” Noznesky said. “I think we can go as far as the second round of the NCAAs.”

Davidsonian SPORTS - Contact Jay (x6019, jacantrell).

Senior keeper preps for grand finale

Cover Story from page 12

“freshman year,” Hundley joked. “She made a complete transformation. There had to be some pretty serious introspection on her part. I would guess she matured to a point where she said she was going to do something rather than just go through the motions.”

“Sports and school always came really easy for me,” the 5-foot-6 senior captain explained. “Coming to Davidson was great for me. I was up against all these people who were better than me. It has been a perfect experience so far.”

To say the least. After a promising set of spring workouts at the end of her freshman year, Noznesky started all 22 games her sophomore season, posting 117 saves, seven shutouts, and a goals-against average of 1.15. As a junior, she only got better; lowering her GAA to an infinitesimal 1.05 en route to becoming the first and only goalkeeper in Southern Conference history to be named the league’s player of the year. And she has never allowed a goal in conference tournament action, logging four shutouts in leading Davidson to its second and third consecutive tourney titles.

“You feel so comfortable with her back there,” said Ginny Dye, who joined Noznesky on last year’s all-conference roster. “She’s going to do everything she can to keep the ball out of the net.”

So, having already achieved virtually every individual or team honor the Southern Conference has to offer, what now? Noznesky — and the rest of the team as well — is talking NCAA tournament — something that has never before been accomplished by a Davidson women’s team at the Division I level.

“I think we can go as far as the second round,” Noznesky predicted. “I’ve been really lucky to play with a good team for the last three years, and I want to repay them for that. I want to get them as far as possible.”

And what does Hundley expect from his superstar keeper? “She will do what she’s capable of,” he said. “I’m not sure what that is, but I'd certainly be happy to see her do what she did last year. The job is hers. Barring an injury or some calamity, she’s going to play the important minutes this season. She’s earned that right.”

By Jay Cantrell
Sports Editor

Some teams like to start off the season with easy non-conference games to assure a few wins. The women’s soccer squad is not one of them. The defending Southern Conference champions travel to Columbia, S.C., Aug. 31 to battle South Carolina, a team that coach Kevin Hundley thinks will be one of the best teams the Wildcats play this year. Last year, the Wildcats beat the Gamecocks 2-1 on a late goal by Ginny Dye. The home-opener is Sept. 3 against Clemson, the 20th-ranked team in the nation. Last year’s 4-1 loss to the Tigers on hostile turf was one of their worst losses of the season.

“Those are big-time games,” Kelly Schmidt said. “This year we’ll have the depth to win them.”

Kelly Rennick knows the first two games will be a good measuring stick for the Wildcats. “It’ll let us know where we stand against the big schools,” she said. “Hopefully we'll do well, but if we don’t, then we’ll know what we need to work on to get better.”

Another giant looming over this year’s schedule is UNC Greensboro, one of three new conference teams. The two other newcomers are Wofford and East Tennessee St. The Spartans of UNCG are ranked 21st in the nation and will pose an immediate threat to the Wildcats’ recent supremacy when they meet Oct. 7 at Richardson Field. That bout could be a preview of the conference championship match, a game whose stakes are higher this year than ever before. This year’s tournament champion will earn a play-in game against the Big South champion. The winner of that game will advance to the NCAA tournament.

“That would be a great climax to the season and it would mean a lot for women’s sports at Davidson,” Hundley said. “No women’s team here has ever gone to a Division I NCAA tournament.”