THE DAVIDSONIAN News TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1997

Ms. Meredith Lynn Benke
Ms. Jessica Maria Bigazzi
Ms. Jean Porter Boehmler
Ms. Heather Kathryn Brown
Ms. Lois Ann Bumgarner
Mr. Jesse Coleman Burk
Mr. Jeffrey Scott Coker
Mr. Damon Dewayne Colbert
Mr. Jacob Andrew Darling
Mr. Cooper Wills Dean
Mr. Lucian Emery Dervan
Ms. Dana Marie Dixon
Mr. Paul Daniel Dryden
Ms. Patricia Nunnelly Evans
Ms. Virginia Asbury Fisher
Mr. Humes Jefferson Franklin, II
Ms. Mary Noel George
Ms. Donna Lynn Gribble
Mr. Daniel Marshall Guill
Ms. Charlotte Louise Hildebrand

Because of their outstanding record of service, leadership, and scholarship, the following students were selected by faculty, staff, and fellow
students as members of Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges.

Mr. Matthew Maxwell Hobbie
Mr. Terrill Philippe Julien
Ms. Anne Catherine Kendrick
Mr. Benjamin Wise Kinnaman
Ms. Diane Elizabeth Krause
Mr. Shakeem Kenya Lane
Ms. Margaret Folk Lumpkin
Ms. Elizabeth Lindsay Maney
Mr. Robert Saunders Neblett
Ms. Sakira Vontric Peay
Ms. Heather Dawn Perry
Ms. Hallie Elsbeth Pitkin
Ms. Susan Trace Plummer
Mr. Nathan Ward Raley
Ms. Jessica Campbell Robblee
Ms. Mary Elizabeth Sale
Mr. Eric Manley Sapp
Ms. Joy Michelle Sparks
Mr. Dominick J. Talvacchio, II
Mr. Britton Howrey Taylor
Mr. Tyrone Curtis Wade, Jr.

Davidson College Police Blotter

BOMBARDED BY BEER CANS
Between 9:00 a.m. and noon Oct. 18, Warner Hall was vandalized by unknown persons. The vandals hurled unopened beer cans
through the windows on the north side of the building, breaking five windows. Furthermore, after breaking through the windows, the
full cans exploded, causing damage to the wooden floor and furniture. The individual described above was never identified.

CONNOR CASH BOX THEFT FOILED
At an alumni dinner at Connor House on Homecoming Weekend, alum David Phelps Sprinkle was approached by a Caucasian man
in khakis, green vest, and flannel shirt, who asked Sprinkle for a cigarette. Sprinkle informed the man that he had
no cigarettes, and moments later witnessed him move towards a cash box, left in plain sight, that contained money collected
from the dinner. The individual slid the box to the edge of the table which it was sitting on and
then proceeded to pick it up. Sprinkle, observing all of this, shouted at the man who immediately put down the
cash box and fled Connor. The box contained a total of $200.

JACKSON COURT VANDALIZED
On Oct. 23, Jackson Court Building No. 2 was reportedly vandalized. Cutting tools were apparently applied to phone wires and
computer wires located on the east side of the building used by Beth Covington, Director of Purchasing. Covington reports that
she has no idea of what could have motivated such an act. Damage to Building No. 2 totaled about $100.

By Scott GEIGER
Campus cops now on bikes
Staff Writer

After a year of consideration, Campus Police and Public Safety has decided to add two Kona customized police bicycles mounted
with special lighting to its patrol fleet. With the new bikes come new uniforms for officers Tim Ramsey, Debbi Lower,
Stan Moore, and Emory McLauren, who will be patrolling on bikes at their discretion. Officer Ramsey claims to be looking
forward to “free exercise” as he cycles across campus. The additions give police a stealthy approach and allow them to
watch walkways, doorways, and cross-country trails more closely, the latter of which has never been adequately patrolled. Director of Public
Safety Ray Thrower says that the new bikes are not superior to the regular cruisers and never will be. Rather,
they offer more versatility in the Campus Police’s ability to protect and serve the Davidson College community.

By Jessica GOODSON
News Editor

Associate Professor of Theater and Speech Ann Marie Costa was recently elected advocacy committee chair for the Association of Theater
in Higher Education (ATHE). One of eight elected officials in the organization, Costa’s responsibilities will entail oversight of various subcommittees,
communication with other ATHE committee members, and — most visibly — lobbying in Congress and educating about the significance of
theater and the arts in education. Costa has been an active member of ATHE for over 10 years and has
held a variety of offices prior to her election to advocacy committee chair. ATHE is comprised of over 2,200 post-secondary
theater educators and graduate students, in addition to theater and performance artists in universities, commercial venues, and community-based and alternative
theaters. The mission of ATHE is to “provide vision and leadership for the profession and promote excellence in theatre education.”
As chair of the advocacy committee, Costa said she will aspire to effectively communicate her conviction that “the arts can
serve to make us better speakers, better leaders, better collaborators, better peacemakers” — that the arts deserve to be central
in education. Costa perceives advocacy as a grassroots process. The advocacy committee of ATHE has several arms for local action
which, among other things, seek to provide national standards for theater educators and curricula in elementary and secondary schools and
to supply educators with “survival kits” of what to do if their theater departments are threatened with elimination, as well
as preventative measures departments can take to safeguard against this. Costa’s approach to the job has been described as “pragmatic
idealism,” by which she will implement practical means of reversing the current decline in arts funding. “When it comes to
budget cuts, the arts are the first to go,” she said. One way Costa plans to change this is through
an internet distribution network. The network would communicate news in the areas of arts funding and legislation, informing educators immediately
of actions that might affect them and facilitating expedient responses to national representatives and community leaders. Costa is currently directing
a production of Noel Coward’s comedy “Hay Fever.” Performances begin tomorrow and run through Sunday. Material from the Davidson Chronicle
was used in this report.Stands will crumble so track program can rise

The Davidson Chronicle

Davidson’s facilities planning committee has given the athletics department the go-ahead to plan and raise money for a new track
on Richardson Field. Jim Murphy, athletics director, said that if all goes well, construction could begin at the end of
the 1998 football season.

The poor state of the stadium’s east stands and the construction of a new physical plant facility on Ridge Road
were the major factors in the decision, Murphy said. The athletics department has been considering a new track since the
late 1980s, when the old track in Richardson was stripped of its three inner lanes to accommodate soccer matches in
the facility.

Murphy said the stadium was always the preferred site for a new track, but a modern, eight-lane track would not
fit between the fields and the stands. It would have been cheaper to build a track on existing intramural fields,
but construction was continually delayed pending further study. The decision has now been made to remove the stadium’s east stands
entirely since they are deteriorating and sparsely used. They were temporarily patched with a synthetic substance to make them safe
for fans this year, but Murphy said it would cost up to $200,000 for full repairs, and their utility isn’t
worth that price.

“Once you take the stands down, there’s room in Richardson for an eight-lane track,” he said, “and everyone has agreed
all along that is the best location for it.”

Another consideration was the overall campus master plan, which envisions a new concentration of student life in an area defined
by Richardson Field, Johnston Gym, and Baker Sports Complex. “It all makes an attractive point to bring a large percentage
of the student body together on a small piece of property doing all sorts of things,” said Bob Collins, director
of the physical plant. “The college is evolving and our facilities are evolving. The track project is just a part
of overall plans we’re making to create space that meets the college’s needs for another half-century or more. Student participation
in physical activity is extraordinary, and it’s more important than ever to have high-quality facilities for life outside the classroom.”

Collins pointed out that removal of the east stands, landscaping of the area, and changes in automobile traffic routes will
provide a new and attractive vista from Richardson Field to Baker Sports Complex. It will also improve the flow of
pedestrian traffic from the Baker parking lot to the stadium and onto the rest of the campus.

The next step in the track project is to create a final design to determine its cost, which Murphy estimated
at about $600,000. Besides construction of the track and destruction of the stands, the project cost must consider landscaping, fencing,
reconfiguration of the existing outdoor basketball courts, new pedestrian walkways, and some construction on the west stands for restrooms, locker
rooms, and weight rooms. Some money has already been pledged by outside donors, but a full fundraising campaign will be
launched once the total cost has been determined. Construction will take up to five months and cannot begin until after
any given fall football or soccer season. Murphy said he hopes that fundraising will be complete in time for construction
to begin in December 1998.

The track itself will be a resilient, durable polyurethane poured 400-meter surface with a lifetime of about 10 years before
it needs to be resurfaced. In order to fit a full 75-yard-wide soccer field inside the track, its radius will
be a bit wider than tracks built around football fields. Some other facilities for track meets, such as jump pits,
will probably be located in the stadium. However, events requiring more space, such as hammer throw and javelin, might be
held on other athletic fields.

The new track will not only improve the College’s chances of recruiting better runners but will also allow Davidson to
host the Southern Conference track championships.

Main Street bank robbed

Town police have suspect, charges pending

By Jessica Goopson
News Editor

The BB&T on Main Street — formerly United Carolina Bank — was robbed Thursday at 9:06 a.m. According to the
bank teller, the thief held his hand in his pocket to indicate the presence of a weapon. He escaped with
an undetermined amount of money, which has not been recovered. Bank robbery is a federal offense, and the case is
consequently under the scrutiny of the FBI.

“That’s just fine, considering we are slightly under-equipped to handle this type of case,” said Hank McKiernan, chief of the
Davidson Police Department.

McKiernan said that a suspect was picked up on Thursday based on eyewitness descriptions and video from surveillance cameras inside
the bank. He was interviewed by town police and the FBI, but the suspect has not yet been charged with
the robbery.

“Additional evidence will come to light within the next few days,” McKiernan said. “It will either warrant charges or eliminate
the current suspect.” In particular, the FBI will enhance the clarity of the footage taken from the bank and resubmit
it with still photos of the suspect. The photos should conclusively identify the thief. As of now, any evidence is
purely circumstantial, and McKiernan was not at liberty to discuss all of it. The suspect is free at present, but
charges will be brought in the near future.

The Davidson branch First Union was also robbed four months ago during summer vacation, apparently Davidson’s first bank robbery. “I’ve
been here 14 years,” McKiernan said. “We’ve done some research, and to the best of my knowledge, prior to the
First Union robbery, there have been no bank robberies in Davidson.”

When asked if the relative rash of robberies was attributable to anything in particular, McKiernan said no. “Davidson was simply
a victim of bank robbery,” he said. “No place has immunity.”
