THE DAVIDSONIAN

Panel discusses the Honor Code

By JERRY GOLDMAN
Staff Writer

Robert E. Lee, when asked by a student at what was then Washington College about the rules of the institution,
said that its one rule was for every student to conduct him or herself with honor. Davidson College, however, wrestled
with whether or not the rules on its campus were sufficient to make sure such honor is upheld.

On Oct. 8, the campus forum committee organized a discussion in the 900 Room of the Union to answer any
questions the college community had about the Honor Code. The panel consisted of Dean of Students Tom Shandley, several members
of the Honor Council — Student Solicitor Josie Hoover, Chairperson Charlotte Hildebrand, and Defense Advisor Wesley Hart — and Mary
Thornberry, a Political Science professor. Many different ideas and topics were discussed as the gathering of about 25 people learned
much about how exactly the Code is enforced and what the representatives themselves feel about the Honor system.

Among the more interesting and little-known facts about the Honor Council is that a board of the faculty, the Review
Board, is allowed to review the decision of the Honor Council and change the punishment if they deem it appropriate.
The President has the same power. Both these powers are rarely used, and when used, they are usually used to
give a more lenient punishment. “The Review Board can do anything,” Shandley said.

Regarding the possible sanctions the honor council may impose, Hildebrand said, “There is a broad range of penalties - from
community service, fines, and suspension.” She also wanted to remind students that, “(Trials) are not an inquisition. (It is) our
(the council’s) responsibility to uphold the code.”

Shandley wanted to emphasize that suspension is just about the strictest penalty a student may receive since the college does
not really have an expulsion policy. “We suspend but do not expel,” he said. Nine of 10 cases last year
resulted in suspension.

Dr. Thornberry commented on the differences in due process between Honor Code trials and state-run trials. “It radically differs,” she
said. “Hearsay evidence can be introduced. We have a free, open discovery process.”

Many of the observers did believe there is work to be done in general to improve the Honor system. Thornberry,
who believes the differences are “a good choice” states overall that we have a “student-run system that is not bad
now.” Last year’s chairperson Ann Hatfield, who graduated in May, was at the meeting and said, “The system can be
improved.”

Shandley said that anyone could suggest changes for the Codes, by just dropping by a proposal to his office. The
suggestions would then be voted upon by the Student Conduct Council.

Council representatives also claimed that the recent sentiment of doubt concerning the Honor Code and Honor Council was unfair, and
complained that the recent Davidsonian poll was conducted unscientifically. They also noted the scanty attendance of this meeting, compared to
the massive turnout for the Ryan Gist trial. They claimed that the time to make complaints known to the Honor
Council was at this meeting, rather than during a trial.

So far, so good on Court

By JENNY HAPGOOD
Staff Writer

A few fights, some property damage, and a couple of trips to the hospital define Davidson’s Court scene so far
this year. According to Sergeant David Harding of the Campus Police, parties on Patterson Court have gone well this year.

The campus police force is divided into two squads that rotate from week to week for the night shifts at
the Court. Each night, two officers patrol the Court, yet they are not technically “on duty.” Working down at the
parties is an extra task the officers take on in addition to their regular daily duties. The campus police work
at the parties in order to ensure student safety, stop fights, and control property damage.

So far this year, the campus police have dealt with typical noise violations, when both residents of Davidson and students
on campus call to complain about excessive noise from Court activities. Harding has not issued any alcohol citations at this
point. Alcohol citations follow the Davidson Red Book policy, and are issued to students who are passed out, physically sick,
and/or incoherent.

Though this year has “been calmer” than last year, Harding has sent two students to the hospital. The medic who
arrived at one of these occurrences informed Harding that if the intoxicated student had not received medical attention, the consequences
would have been fatal. Ultimately, the student was fine because the people around him or her took action and got
help.

Harding, above all, wants students to call the police if they feel someone is in a dangerous position. “Don’t worry
about getting in trouble, just call,” he said. “We're here to help. And after all, which is worse, getting in
a little bit of trouble or having someone die?”

Language barrier contributes to comedy in France

OURS, France — Have you ever wondered what happens to all those juniors who disappear for a semester? While it
might seem like we are in the Bermuda Triangle (judging from the lack of mail), most of us are still
on this planet. We can account for 13 — the eight Davidson and five non-Davidson studentsOn the Davidson-in-France program. Though
we are now settling into our new homes here, we spent our first four weeks in Paris, earning the only
Davidson course credit to include a wine- and cheese-tasting session. Paris is everything you would imagine: monuments, museums, parks, pigeons,
and public displays of affection. The city has just about everything you could want — until you need it, whether
a boulangerie or the public toilettes, which, unlike in the good old USA, all cost a few francs. And if
that laundry machine — that’s right, Mom, we do our own — just ate your 32 FF (five to six
dollars or a really good, really overpriced cappuccino), you won’t find an attendant to cry to. “Service-libre” means you are
on your own in the cold, cruel world of self-service laundry. And then there is the language barrier. Oddly enough,
many times when you know exactly what you are saying, the French have no clue. This phenomenon can occur in
even the seemingly safest situations. Davidson student A, who will remain anonymous under his adopted French name of Michel, asked
for “une tasse d’eau” (a cup of water) at McDonald’s and ended up with a Royale with cheese to go.
Vegetarians beware. As conveniently as pronouncing an English word with a French accent filled any vocabulary lack in high school,
here the technique can have different results. Deceptively, many words are the same. Even those of you who don’t know
a “Robert” from a “Mireille” would have “pas de probleme” figuring out “le silence,” “le stretching et le jogging,” or,
our favorite, “le e-mail.” Exceptions, however, can be drastic. In one educational discussion on American cuisine, Davidson student B informed
her class that “les hot dogs” are often 50 percent “preservatifs.” No matter what volume or pronunciation Davidson student B
tried — “pre-serva-TIF, pre-SER-va-tif, pre-ser-VA-tif” — the teacher did not seem to understand. Finally, another student informed student B that
she had spent the last five minutes calling out the French word for condom. That’s all the French faux pas
for now, though we’re busily at work adding more to the list. Write now before we are too immersed to
write back “en anglais.” Au revoir!

* Kenya Connection draws another alumnus on mission to serve

LUANDA, Kenya — With the help of family and friends, the Davidsonian has followed me from Australia to Africa. I
must admit that it is quite a thrill getting the latest from Davidson wherever I go. However, given my current
situation and the recent Opinions section (or lack thereof), I thought I would send word from Kenya, since Davidson is
partly responsible for my teaching mission. If you are one of those “gung-ho, career-minded, I’m-gonna-make-a-million-before-I’m-thirty” students, then I encourage you
to stop reading now. However, if you have seen the light and you cringe at the thought of Career Services
or high-pressure interviews with the latest trendy consulting firm, then lend me your ears. If you are looking for something
other than the Big Three (medicine, law, and business), then come to Kenya after receiving your prestigious diploma from “The
Eighth Wonder of the World.” The bottom line is that Kenya needs teachers, and there are numerous resources within the
Davidson community that can help anyone who is interested. It is not for everyone. You make about $30.00 per month,
and you will have to live without the comforts of life in the West. However, we have all surely learned
by now, with our liberal schooling, that there is more to life than a whopping paycheck. Western Kenya has attracted
over one hundred Davidson graduates since the 1970s through an informal organization known as the Kenya Connection. This organization helped
make my African teaching mission a reality. I gathered information, names, and contacts within the Western Province and then journeyed
to Kakamega, Kenya, in August. I met several headmasters and visited a few secondary schools in search of a suitable
place to begin teaching. I settled at Esalwa Secondary School near the village of Luanda, three kilometers north of the
equator. I have found the transition from student to teacher rather challenging, though rewarding. The idea of moving to Africa
to teach can sound intimidating; it’s not. In fact, it is really quite simple. The majority of what you need
is already in your head — share the wealth. Anyone who can survive at Davidson is capable of being a
successful and effective teacher in Kenya. I have met with many officials in the education system who always ask if
more Americans are interested in teaching. I tell these officials that I am sure there are many students who would
rather come to Kenya than sit through an LSAT prep course, but they do not know how. Now you do.
If you are interested in this, please investigate the Kenya Connection and begin discovering the realities of East Africa. In
addition to experiencing the rewards of conducting your own classroom, you will have three months of vacation to explore Mt.
Kenya, Lake Turkana, the Masai Mara, Mount Kilimanjaro, Lake Victoria, and the tropical coast of the Indian Ocean. I am
anxious to help supply the demand for teachers in Kenya with enthusiastic people from Davidson College.

* COME MAKE PAGE WITH US. If you know PageMaker, call Randy Skattum at x6667.

* Into the Streets ‘97 October 25 - November 9
