6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Tapia shares her love of learning

By Liz NEIHEISEL
Staff Writer

Brenda Tapia has a true love of learning, and she has brought it to Davidson. This summer marked the 10th anniversary of Davidson’s Love of Learning program, founded by Tapia in 1987 as an innovative five-year program geared towards improving the intellectual, spiritual, and physical development of local minority students.

The program, dubbed an “academic boot camp” by news anchorman Charles Kuralt, begins the summer before students’ ninth grade year and lasts until the summer preceding their freshman year in college. Students begin their time in Love of Learning with an intensive four-week stay on Davidson’s campus, where they spend up to twelve hours a day in classes. A typical day consists of seminars ranging from leadership workshops to academic classes to spiritual development classes.

Tapia, who attributes both the innovation and success of the program to God and the Holy Spirit, speaks adamantly of the program’s holistic approach: “If you’re going to educate the student, you have to affect their home, their learning environment, and their community.” Love of Learning is therefore based on four components: working to affect the lives of the students, their parents, their learning environment, and their community resources.

Davidson’s program has been unable to actualize the last two components for lack of both financial and personnel resources. The first two, however, have achieved phenomenal success. Out of 300 students involved in Love of Learning over the past three years, 269 went to college with an undetermined number reaching graduation. Seven of those students have completed or are currently enrolled in a graduate program.

While all of these statistics bring great joy to students, faculty, and staff, it is the change in the student that brings them back year after year. Tapia and her staff are focused on “seeing people not where they are right now, but where they can be. Our joy comes from watching students become who they were created to be.”

With this goal in mind, counselors are trained to reach out to the students, encourage close interaction, and promote a bonding experience during the residential camp. While some students find success in only two weeks, others need more time to blossom, and such is the goal of the five-year program.

This summer, with the first decade of Love of Learning past, former students, teachers, parents, and faculty joined together for a special celebration. Over 300 people returned to Davidson to reunite with those individuals that changed their lives forever. Tapia, who was glad to see “all [her] children” return, was presented with a commemorative plaque and a round-trip ticket to Jamaica from her faculty and staff.

Tapia has been featured in various news publications in the Charlotte area and beyond, including the Observer Times and Davidson’s own Topics magazine. Students interested in becoming involved with the Love of Learning program can contact Brenda Tapia at extension 2452.

---

Exquisite Fall Clothing & Accessories For Ladies
Mon. - Sat. 10 AM to 6 PM
106 S. Main Street
896-8860

---

Write for News. Call Naresh or Jessica x 2148

We need people capable of going beyond half-full or half-empty thinking. People who see subtleties. Who are quite frankly bored by easy answers and off-the-shelf solutions. People who are constantly challenging their own thinking and are thirsty for new ideas and knowledge. You'll have a degree from a top school. Getting a job won't really be an issue. The question is: which job? Which industry?

http://www.ac.com

We’re looking for people who look at this glass and say: “There’s gotta be other glasses of liquid.”

Andersen Consulting offers you the chance to work in a variety of roles on unique projects with top worldwide companies. We are the leader in helping organizations apply information technology to their business. We implement solutions to help our clients change. Are you the person we're talking about? The kind of person with an unquenchable desire for challenge and...Professional growth? Andersen Consulting is an equal opportunity employer. Are you interested in the ever-changing area of technology and business? If so, Andersen Consulting can train you for a career, not just a job. Andersen Consulting will actively recruit on campus this fall. We are looking for qualified candidates in all majors.

AANDERSEN CONSULTING

“What do these folks have in common?”
- Alison Bryant - Chicago Office (312) 372-7100
- Amy Hatfield - Charlotte Office (704) 332-6411
- Michael Ingram - Charlotte Office (704) 332-6411
- Allison Squier - Metro NY Office (212) 708-4400

They're great hires for Andersen Consulting! Come see how you can join them at our upcoming information session, to be held on Tuesday, September 30 at The Carnegie Guest House, from 6:00 pm - 9:00 pm. If you're interested in learning more about Andersen Consulting and the career opportunities we offer, please feel free to contact us at any of the above-listed numbers, or toll-free at (800) 776-6411 ext. 1989. We look forward to meeting you on September 30!

- Michelle Carroll - San Francisco Office (415) 546-8599
- Mary Laura Moretz Philpott - Atlanta Office (404) 880-9100

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1997

Davidson OC 19 for the week ending Sunday, Sept

COMPILED BY STEPHANIE MLYNAR AND CURTIS LEWIS

International

Mother Teresa laid to rest Saturday
The viewing of Mother Teresa, held on Friday, was cut short as thousands waited to see her. Soldiers closed the viewing to prepare for the state funeral to be held on Saturday. Several angry people broke through the security cordon blocking the viewing. They were stopped, however; many were saddened at not being able to see the beloved woman. The funeral took place on Saturday. Mother Teresa’s body was escorted by the military and draped with the Indian flag. She was on the same gun carriage that was used for Mahatma Gandhi. A papal delegation celebrated the service. Hillary Clinton and other dignitaries attended. Mother Teresa was buried at her Missionary Charity.

DNC and National Policy Forum receive illegal campaign funds
The Washington Post reported that top U.S. officials recently told a Senate hearing that the DNC and the National Policy Forum, a think tank for the Republican Party, received illegal campaign contributions from a businessman acting in China’s interests. Ted Sioeng, an Indonesian entrepreneur, has repeatedly appeared in name as providing illegal foreign funds for U.S. political campaigns. Sioeng gave money to both the DNC and the National Policy Forum, but denies that he is affiliated with the Chinese government. Committee Chairman Fred Thomas stated in July that the committee had found evidence that suggested that China planned to “subvert our election process.” Chinese officials deny donating money illegally to influence U.S. elections.

You will live longer, report announces
The life expectancy for Americans has reached its highest level and the infant death rate has reached an all-time low, according to officials of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in America. Those were among many findings the Centers recently released as part of an analysis of the nation’s vital statistics. As of 1996, the average American could expect to live 76.1 years, an increase of .3 years from 1995. There was also a significant narrowing of both the sex and race gap in life expectancy. Six years now separate the life expectancy of men and women, with women having a life expectancy of 79 years, and men 73 years. In 1996, blacks could expect to live an average of 70.3 years, while for whites life expectancy was 76.8 years. The report also indicates a plunge in AIDS-related deaths and, for the fifth straight year, a decline in the percentage of teenagers giving birth. Aggressive prevention campaigns and greater use of condoms are largely responsible for the decrease. The all-time low infant death rate, for example, is being attributed to the increased prevention of Sudden Infant Death Syndrome. Overall, the report indicates significant gains in the nation’s health.

For the Savvy Ones
Great Hair
Beautiful Nails
Soothing Pedicures
Flawless Waxing
Rejuvenating Facials

I-77, Exit 28 * Norman Crossing Shopping Center
Cornelius * 895-0404