THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1997

Walker and Judy hope for further growth in the EAC

Mary Lee of the Davidsonian recently sat down with Amanda Walker and Meredith Judy to talk about their roles as
co-chairs of the Environmental Action Coalition, a student-led organization that formed last year as a result of the merger of
the environmental and recycling groups.

The Davidsonian: How and when did you become involved in environmental action?

Walker: Environmentalism has always been my thing. I have been involved in environmental action at Davidson since my freshman year,
when I signed up with the environmental group at the activities fair. Sophomore year I was co-chair, and have been
very active since.

Judy: I originally joined as a member of the recycling group that went to the shed every week to sort
the recyclables. Last year the coalition formed, and I have enjoyed working on lots of different environmental issues.

D: Describe your recycling program.

W: We are focused on recycling education and are using Richardson as a model dorm to show students how and
what can be recycled. We want to make everyone well-informed, so that investing more money into the recycling program will
be worthwhile. Right now, our biggest challenge is that everything isn’t uniform.

Students should know two things about recycling at Davidson. First, you don’t have to sort your recyclables. Just put them
in blue plastic bags. Second, you can’t recycle glass.

D: How has the environmental action group changed since your involvement with it began?

J: We were both members of each organization (recycling and environmental action), and now we work at both. The coalition
makes recycling much more widespread and easier to do.

D: What other programs do you support?

W: We organize letter-writing, cleanups along Interstate-77 and in nature preserves, the Davidson Earth Day celebration, paper padding (binding old
flyers into notepads), and speakers at Davidson.

D: Do you have a wide-based student and faculty involvement?

J: At every meeting we have about 20 people. Dr. Martin and Dr. Annie Ingram serve as advisors, and the
physical plant is really helpful with the recycling aspect.

W: The freshmen were pretty excited this year. Lots of them were already active recyclers when they got to Davidson
and told us, “We need more blue bins.” We now have about 80 people involved in some way with the
coalition.

D: How do you see the future of the environmental group at Davidson?

W: I see recycling becoming so common that efforts can be done to address bigger environmental problems, through letter-writing campaigns.
Possibly, environmental action could propel Davidson students to be more political.

D: What are your goals for Davidson and the environment?

J: I'd like to see an Environmental Ethics take hold here at Davidson—a belief that expands throughout campus. It would
be great if the environment were discussed in the classroom, in the Commons, in the Union. I wish it were
just something we did.

W: I want environmental awareness to expand to every aspect of students’ lives.

D: What, if anything, do you ask fellow students to do to make Davidson more environmentally aware?

W: Think about it (the environment). Look at signs on the walls about what you can and can’t recycle. Think
about what your actions do and consider your role as just one part of an ecosystem.

J: Our future depends on our protection of resources now. We have the chance to develop good habits now that
will carry beyond Davidson. If you are concerned about an issue, talk to people. Tell the physical plant or tell
us. The more people who speak out about an issue, the better we all will be.

Amanda Walker and Meredith Judy welcome comments or involvement in the Environmental Action Coalition. They can be reached at telephone
extensions 6832 or 6328.

INFO

INFOnxx is recruiting a few top college graduates to build a team of project managers who will learn how to
manage, operate, and direct a dynamic, fast-growing company. Founded by two Ivy MBAs five years ago, INFOnxx provides opportunities unmatched
by the investment banks and consulting firms, at a competitive salary. You will have an immediate and direct impact on
our business. Please visit the Davidson Careers Office for details on the position, our company, and our upcoming campus visit.

INFOnxx Informational Services
October 28, 7:00 pm
Career Services
