Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

By Daniel Morz

Men’s soccer knocks off Georgia Southern

Wildcats rebound from ugly loss to Appalachian by beating No. 14 Eagles

Senior Staff Writer

Once again handed a challenge in this topsy-turvy 1997 season, the men’s soccer team responded. Following a disappointing 4-2 loss at the hands of Appalachian St. Friday at Richardson Field, the Wildcats defeated 14th-ranked Georgia Southern 3-2 Sunday in Statesboro.

“It may have been hard for us not to look ahead to Georgia Southern,” coach Charlie Slagle said of the loss to the Mountaineers. “After the App. St. game, we were all a little disappointed. Disappointed, but not discouraged. There is a big difference.”

Knowing that they should have beaten the Mountaineers, picked to finish fifth in the conference, Sunday was another occasion in which the Wildcats could have packed it in this fall. Instead, they came out and won perhaps their biggest game of the year, handing the Eagles only their second loss of the season.

“This team has delivered all season,” Slagle said. “Obviously, the hope is that Friday was just a blip on the screen.”

After starting the season 0-5, the Wildcats (7-10, 3-2) have won seven of their last 12 and four of their last five. Against Georgia Southern (12-2-2, 3-2), the defense was the offense for Davidson. Fullbacks Jeff Weekes and Pat Miller each scored in the last 20 minutes for the Wildcats, erasing a 2-1 halftime deficit. Weekes' goal was set up by a free kick.

See Men’s soccer on page 19

---

Golfers climbing to top of conference

By Michael J. Kruse

Editor in Chief

The golf team is scheduled to host a tournament at Brookdale in Huntersville this coming Monday and Tuesday — an easy opportunity to see what has been one of the better Davidson teams this fall.

The Wildcat golfers posted a second-place finish at the seven-team VMI Invitational Oct. 6-7 in Lexington, Va., and a fourth-place finish in a 14-team field at the Radford University Invitational Oct. 21 at the Draper Valley (Va.) Golf Club. The squad also placed 13th out of 23 teams over fall break at the Columbia Intercollegiate in Chattanooga, Tenn., a tournament that included traditional powers Maryland, Dartmouth, and Georgetown. And at Charleston Southern in September, the Wildcats finished fifth in a 13-school event.

“This is by far the best we’ve ever done as a team,” said coach Joe Mark, now in his fifth year at Davidson. “I’ve been very pleased with the way the boys have been playing.”

“This is the best team we’ve had since back in the 60s when we won the Southern Conference,” Andrew McDaniel added Sunday. “We're playing really well right now.”

And no individual has performed at a higher level than Jason Lina, a senior who is averaging 72 strokes in nine competitive rounds so far this season. Lina recorded a stellar second-place overall finish at the Radford tourney, shooting a 69-74-143. He was also third individually in Lexington, only three strokes behind champion David Goodman of Appalachian St.

“Jason has really improved tremendously — probably the biggest improvement on the team,” said McDaniel, who with an average round of 76 is no push-over himself. “He’s there every week playing well, and that’s a really big boost. Everybody else kind of feeds off of that.”

David Alexander, a third-year player who blossomed as a top performer for the Wildcats last spring and has continued that solid play this season, is averaging a 74 in match play, second on the squad only to Lina’s mark.

“At the collegiate level, that’s very good,” Mark said of Lina’s and Alexander’s scores. “Their consistency is key.”

See Golf on page 17

---

Tough-luck football squad falls for fifth straight weekend

Wildcats drop second straight fourth quarter heartbreaker

By Michael J. Kruse

Editor in Chief

If points were awarded solely for effort, the football team would be in great shape. Unfortunately for the tough-luck Wildcats, though, effort alone does not determine wins.losses — a painful lesson Davidson has learned all too often over the last five weeks. The Wildcats dropped a 22-15 heartbreaker to Randolph-Macon Saturday at Day Field in Ashland, Va. The defeat marked the squad’s fifth straight after a 2-0 start to what was supposed to be a potentially record-breaking season. Entering the second half staring at a 14-0 deficit, Davidson mounted a spirited comeback in the third quarter, scoring 15 unanswered points in the period to take a one-point lead into the final period.

Placekicker Brian Langley started the Wildcats’ scoring, booting a 28-yard field goal just over seven minutes after intermission. Quarterback Shaun Tyrance, a sophomore who began the season as a third-stringer behind Tommy Dugan and Matt Strader, recorded his first career touchdown on a two-yard scamper with 4:41 remaining in the third quarter. The score narrowed the 23rd-ranked-in-Division-III Yellow Jackets’ lead to 14-9. The Wildcats’ two-point conversion attempt failed. Only three and a half minutes later, Tyrance connected with rookie receiver Corey Crawford for a seven-yard touchdown toss. Again, the two-point attempt was foiled by Randolph-Macon’s defense, as the Wildcats settled for the 15-14 advantage heading into the fourth quarter.

There, with just 35 seconds left, Yellow Jacket signal-caller Sidney Chappell sneaked in from a yard out to send Davidson to its second closing-minutes loss in as many weeks. Overall, Tyrance, who replaced Strader early on, completed 15 of 35 passes for 165 yards, a touchdown, and an interception in his debut. Eric Sapp paced Davidson’s receiving corps with six catches for 77 yards, while Crawford added five receptions for 40 yards and tight end Wes Jones contributed four for 52. Tyrance led the rushing charge, picking up 108 yards on just 10 carries. The Wildcat defense was anchored by Donnie Johnson (12 tackles) and Freeman Belser (10). Shreve Ariail and Bo Henderson each added eight takedowns.

Andrew Letizia, Ben Spivey (64), Chris Hess (8), Ryan Gist (37), and Chris Frederick (44) work together to bring down a Methodist runner in last week’s game. The Wildcats lost their fifth in a row Saturday to Randolph-Macon.

Patrick Miller
Men’s Soccer
Fr. • Defender
Miller tallied the game-winner in overtime Sunday at Georgia Southern to secure a 3-2 victory for the Wildcats. The win sent a message to the rest of the conference, as they bounced back from a disappointing 4-2 home loss to Appalachian St. Friday night.

Saturday vs. Hampden-Sydney (1:30 p.m., WCGC 1270 AM, WSAT 1280 AM)
Men’s Soccer
Today @ VMI (3:00 p.m.)
Friday vs. Wofford (7:00 p.m.)
Women’s Soccer
Tonight at Furman (7:00 p.m.)
Thursday vs. North Carolina St. (6:00 p.m.)
Volleyball
Saturday @ East Tennessee St. (4:00 p.m.)
Sunday @ Appalachian St. (2:00 p.m.)
Field Hockey
Saturday and Sunday: Deep South tournament
Swimming & Diving
Saturday vs. Virginia Tech and William and Mary (Noon)
Cross Country
Saturday @ Southern C

Women’s soccer vs. Furman
Tonight • Greenville, S.C. • 7:00 p.m.
Last week, the Paladins topped the Wildcats in overtime to secure a home game in the first round of the conference tournament. Therefore, Davidson goes on the road to seek revenge and a berth in Saturday’s semifinals.

Women’s Basketball
Sunday vs. Smoky Mtn. Swarm (4:00 p.m., exhibition)