2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS BRIEFS

Rides program loses money in first weekend

The SGA Rides Program lost $200 in its first weekend of operation. Twenty students rode the $2 shuttle to Cornelius
and Huntersville. Treasurer Ed Winant suggested, “The shuttle is a service to students and we really should keep that in
mind. Twenty students is not so bad. We will monitor its use in the future. But, it is a good
start.”

Dervan to make lottery proposal

Senior class senator Lucian Dervan will draw up a proposal to RLO to make the Senior Lottery more fair. He
wants seniors choosing in Phase I of the lottery to know their lottery numbers before having to list roommates and
choose rooms as well as having RLO better accommodate seniors who go abroad. He is taking suggestions from the student
body also.

Burk makes plans for playground

Stemming from the Social Options Forum held at the Outpost March 19, SGA president Buster Burk introduced the idea of
a school playground to the SGA and Dean of Students Tom Shandley. “We want to create a more constructive atmosphere
for the school,” says Burk. He is currently seeking input from students.

NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 7, 1997

gradu celebrations, study breaks, exam time or just for fun!

BEN & JERRY'S. VERMONT'S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT

Charlotte: 507 Providence Rd. 333-1003
The Arboretum 543-8333
Davidson: 202 So. Main St. 892-0604
Myrtle Beach: Broadway at the Beach 444-1074

LIFEGIVER. DONOR.

Now accepting qualified egg donors

You can help infertile couples conceive by becoming an egg donor. The Institute for Assisted Reproduction, a private infertility clinic
in Charlotte, NC, is seeking women between the ages of 21 and 34 as donor candidates. Qualified egg donors will
receive $1,800 in compensation for the significant amount of time and energy involved. Health and psychological screening is required at
no charge. To learn how you can become a donor, call (704) 342-8235.

For information on Egg Donation call: (704) 342-8235

SGA and honor council elections draw 40% turnout

By STEPHEN CEFALU
Staff Writer

The Student Government Association’s Senate and Honor Council elections were held last Monday, March 24, and concluded on Tuesday, March
25, after a day of run-offs. SGA Election Council Chairperson, John Bell, estimates voter turnout at 40% overall with slightly
higher representation from the freshman class. “The elections were, on the whole, very well organized, and ballot counting was efficient,”
says Bell.

Elected to the senior class senate were Sara Strauss, Lucian Dervan, and president, Tim Saintsing. Saintsing says the new position
will offer him an opportunity to tackle many of the objectives he enumerated earlier this spring in his SGA presidential
campaign platform. “Chief among my concerns,” says Saintsing, “are campus safety, financial aid availability, the track issue, and, most importantly,
providing for stability, with regard to the student body, during the college’s presidential transition period.”

Junior class senate president Chris Tuttle says he is committed to making himself accessible to his classmates in a year
which will involve much transition for them. Tuttle says, “A lot of juniors will be studying abroad at different points
next year, and I want them to feel confident that their needs and ideas are well represented here on campus.”
Tuttle is joined on the junior class senate by Ainsley Natta and Meredith Judy.

The newly elected sophomore class senate is comprised of Julie Chevalier, Whitney Frazier, and president Foster Haselden.

Delegates to the senior class honor council include Elizabeth Reid, Tyrone Wade, and Carrie Van Deest. Van Deest states that
she much anticipates the leadership experience her honor council position will provide her. “I have deep respect for the honor
code, but I think people are, at times, too intimidated by it and afraid to ask questions in regard to
its application,” says Van Deest. “I want to make it less secretive, less of a mystery.”

Elected to the junior class honor council were Amber Bradford, Claire Cheatwood, Tim McCune, and Grace Robinson.

By far the most hotly contested race of this year’s elections was that for sophomore honor council. A large pool
of forty-three freshman candidates was whittled down until three victors emerged: Kara Barker, Andrew Holbrook, and Joselyn Ogden. “Everyone who
ran would have served the class very well,” she says.

Benefit straining resources, council says

from page 1

on eligible students to attend Davidson only because the tuition reduction is greater. Of Davidson’s $48 million annual budget, “nearly
two-thirds ... is compensation,” says Epes, though not all comes from the tuition benefit plan. The College’s budget grows by
about 3% each year. The cost of theDependent tuition benefit plan, however, increases by 15.6% annually. It was determined that
the plan’s growth rate would not long be sustainable, says Vice President for Business and Finance Robert Norfleet, once “we
did analysis, and realized it was a huge potential problem.” The policy is something of an institution as part of
compensation packages, routinely used to attract qualified faculty and staff. “The logic behind all of this,” Epes says, “is that
teaching ... is not historically a high-paying profession.” Norfleet goes even further, saying, “The people who teach at Davidson make
so little money that they can’t afford it for their own children.”

The benefits plan has never been outlined in any College employee’s contract—the plan is set forth in the Faculty Handbook
instead— “People who felt they could count on something are understandably alarmed,” says Dr. Hansford Epes, chair of the Advisory
Council for Finance, Personnel and Development, which is submitting the proposal. Judging by a study commissioned by Bates College in
Lewiston, Maine, “our program has gotten to be conspicuously generous [in relation to] comparable institutions,” Epes says. The Bates study,
which included approximately 40 selective institutions, showed only Duke University as having a more beneficent tuition benefit program, says Norfleet.

“The College still wants to be able to get the best [faculty and staff] we can,” Epes says. “I think
[the proposal to cut tuition benefits] allows us to be competitive. In all seriousness, I don’t think this will harm
our ability to get faculty and staff we want to get.” The recommendation is one of the results of the
College’s “self-study” evaluation two years ago by an external research firm that determined priorities and new methods of efficacy and
efficiency to be implemented in all areas of the College, providing for Davidson’s present and future.

Council members stress that the proposed benefit cuts were not measures anyone wanted to take. “The purpose of the council
was ‘how can we save the benefit?’” says council member Eric Sapp, a junior. Also, because all voting members of
the council except students are themselves employed by the College, “The majority ... are acting against their own self-interest,” reminds
Norfleet. Still, after analyzing projections for the budget under current tuition benefit policy, the Council came to realize, Sapp says,
“there was absolutely no other option [but to make cuts in the plan].”

“What we’re doing is wise,” Epes says, “and it is not a response to a crisis, but a way of
making sure we don’t have one. It’s planning that asks not what we’re doing next year, but in 2008.” For
faculty and staff hired after March 14, 1996, who have completed the elongated vesting period of seven years, the College’s
benefit plan pays 50% of tuition for a Davidson student and for students of other institutions, the College pays the
lesser of 50% of that school’s cost or 50% of Davidson’s cost. The plan that applies to newly hired faculty
is already in effect. It was not up for debate at the forums. “As the Council sees it,” Epes says,
“we’re changing from a very generous policy to a generous one. For people coming in, it’s not as generous, but
it’s still competitive.” For new and old staff alike, the benefit would no longer be extended to spouses.

—With reporting by Matthew Eirich

SPLC founder Dees teaches tolerance

By ANN CULP Jr.
News Editor

On Wednesday, Morris Dees, co-founder and Director of the Southern Poverty Law Center, will speak in the 900 Room at
7:30 p.m. In 1971, the non-profit Southern Poverty Law Center was established to specialize in lawsuits involving civil rights violations
and racially motivated crimes. In 1980, the Center founded the “Klanwatch” in response to a resurgence in organized racist activity.
In addition, the Center has created a program called “Teaching Tolerance,” an education project.

Recently, Dees has devoted his time to educating people about America’s racist militia movement, especially through his 1996 expose Gathering
Storm: America’s Militia Threat. He also wrote an autobiography, A Season for Justice and another book, Hate on Trial: The
Case Against America’s Most Dangerous Neo-Nazi. He was featured in a made-for-television movie about his life, Line of Fire, which
aired on NBC in 1991. Dees was Finance Director for George McGovern’s campaign in 1972 and created the first presidential
campaign financed with small gifts by mail. Trial Lawyers for Public Justice named him “Trial Lawyer of the Year” in
1987. He received the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Award from the National Education Association in 1991. Dees will be
speaking as a Wearn Lecturer.
