THE DAVIDSONIAN

ELECTIONS

In a time of transition and flux, the leaders of a new generation come together.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1997

Burk, Fisher: the little things count

By NARESH NAGELLA
News Editor

For Junior Buster Burk and Sophomore Ann Harriot Fisher, careers in the Student Government Association have reached new heights. They
achieved that mark when the student body elected Burk SGA President and Fisher SGA Vice President last week.

Burk comes to his position after being Freshman and Sophomore class president as well as Junior Senator. He says “helping
and asking people’s opinions” has allowed him to be continuously promoted and re-elected.

Increased student participation in the electoral process is something Burk would like to see. While both he and Fisher were
happy with the 57% voter turnout, Burk says, “I wonder why it is not around 90% at a college like
Davidson.”

Burk wants to see better “town-gown” relations. He says, “Finally extending the CAT card to off-campus businesses will definitely help
here.” Right now, school officials and local businesses are hammering out the legal details of the proposal to use CAT
cards off-campus.

Overall, Burk says, “I want to make people happier at Davidson. And, at times, that can be in fixing the
little things, like pizza at the Commons, an extra pay phone here or there, or extra copying machines.”

Fisher will arrive at her new position after being a Freshman senator and Sophomore Class President.

She credits her successes to “being able to go out and talk with many people.” She says, “My fellow class
senators and I had a good habit of keeping in touch with a lot of students.”

Fisher lists the initiation of Dorm Storm, the creation of minors at Davidson, and contribution to the overhaul of charters
and bylaws as her previous SGA accomplishments.

She hopes to “finish up the work of the Buford administration” for next year.

Specifically, she states, “The Rides Committee needs to be finished. Also, the Information Technology Council that will help wire dorms
needs to get started. But, my personal goal is to increase SGA participation.” Of next year, Burk says; “We have
a good team. We are excited to committing ourselves to our goal and will help out in the best possible
way.”

By STEPHEN CEFALU
Staff Writer

The first day in office was a very busy one for newly elected Union Board president Matthew Hobbie.

Meetings with Union Board directors and representatives kept Hobbie occupied for the duration of last Wednesday evening.

“I think they were a little concerned because I wasn’t of the Union fold, but everyone left feeling very confident
that we were all on the same page,” says Hobbie.

Last Monday, Junior Matthew Hobbie was named Union Board President for the 1997-1998 academic year.

Hobbie is a former head Independent Senator to the SGA and also served previously as Sophomore Class Senator.

As Union Board President, Hobbie says that one of his major points of focus will be on making the Davidson
College Union a model of campus unity. He plans to work in close conjunction with the SGA and the Patterson
Court Council in programming campus-wide events.

“Ideally the Union should be a place where both independents and members of Patterson Court organizations feel comfortable hanging out
or having meetings,” says Hobbie.

Hobbie is also committed to expanding and diversifying the schedule of social events held at the Union Outpost.

“The Outpost is truly the link between life on the Court and life at the Union,” Hobbie says. “We want
to have events there that everyone can get excited about and involved with.”

Hobbie says he is very pleased with discussions he has had with SGA President Buster Burk and Union Board Vice
Presidents Michael Bougdanos and Donna Gribble.

According to Hobbie, the key buzzwords for his programming strategy are “new,” “exciting,” and “inclusive.”

“The Union is on the upswing, and we can’t be afraid to take some risks, ruffle some feathers,” says Hobbie.

While plans for construction of a new College Union within Johnston Gym are still in the developmental stages, Hobbie says
that no matter its location, the Union must remain a place of warmth and hospitality.

“I think it’s important that the Union feel like home for people,” he says. “By the end of my term
I want to be able to say that every member of this campus community has come to at least one
Union event.”

Friday, February 7

7:30 pm
Johnston Gym

Bring your own hand drums, congas, djembes, ashikos, bells, shakers, empty water jugs, and other hand percussion instruments (no snare
drums please)

REMO drums will be provided to the first 300 people who need them
