In this issue of the Davidsonian, you will find the Student Counseling Center’s “Depression Self-Screening Test” and the announcement of
a related Thursday evening program, “Lend a Hand: Helping a Friend Who is Down.” These are part of a National
Depression Awareness Day, an annual event in planning by Dr. DeWitt Crosby and our Student Health Advisors group for quite
some time. In light of the recent death of Zac Lacy by suicide, I felt a need to send this
message. It is our hope that our Depression Awareness activities will be understood as one important component in our ongoing
efforts to educate the community about mental health issues, and to encourage timely use of professional clinical services when those
among us have need. Additionally, I would note that the news of a suicide does place some within our community
at higher risk for the next few weeks. We encourage everyone to be informed about depression, and to be attentive
to those around you.

If you are someone who is contemplating suicide, particularly if you feel emotionally isolated from others and were impressed by
the love expressed by so many for Zac in the wake of his death, we urge you to reach out
to someone and discuss your circumstances. Your friends, College faculty and staff, our chaplains Rob Spach and Brenda Tapia, and,
of course, the Counseling Center staff are all persons who will sincerely care about you and respond to your feelings
— now, while you are still safe and can address the circumstances which can seem so overwhelming.

The oft-heard phrase “Davidson family” must have a special meaning for us at this time.

DEPRESSION SELF-SCREENING TEST
- Feelings of sadness and/or irritability
- Loss of interest or pleasure in activities previously enjoyed
- Changes in weight or appetite
- Changes in sleeping pattern
- Fatigue or loss of energy
- Thoughts of suicide or death
- Feeling guilty, hopeless, or worthless
- Inability to concentrate, remember things, or make decisions
- Restlessness or decrease in activity, noticed by others

In addition, look for the following symptoms of the manic phase of manic depression:
- Increased energy and decreased need for sleep
- Inappropriate excitement or irritability
- Increased talking or moving about
- Promiscuous sexual behavior
- Disconnected and racing thoughts

This test is from materials provided by Eli Lilly and Company and the National Mental Health Association.

Also, please attend:
Thursday, October 9, 900 Room
7:30 - 8:30 pm
LEND A HAND: HELPING A FRIEND WHO’S DOWN

A couple of weeks ago, Mary Perrin Anderson wrote an article about the so-called sophomore slump. She defined the sophomore
slump as not getting dates and a lack of security. As a sophomore, she said that she felt fine and
was feeling no effects of the slump whatsoever. I’m glad Mary Perrin is feeling fine. I wouldn’t want her to
feel any other way, but she misunderstood the sophomore slump and made a statement about an entire year before it
had really begun.

I suffered from sophomore slump. Before it happened to me, I thought the slump was losing the energy of freshman
year and having grades go down from boredom. Instead, my life fell apart. Sophomore slump is a loss of direction;
a feeling of being caught in the middle. In my case, depression followed. Nothing felt right anymore. I no longer
felt welcome in church, which was very disturbing for me since I grew up in it and it had been
a great source of strength for me. I no longer felt like I belonged at home and I didn’t feel
like I belonged at Davidson. I didn’t want to be here, but I didn’t want to be anywhere else.

I threw away a powerful relationship with my girlfriend. I was tired all the time. For a stretch of two
weeks, I slept almost continually and would wake in a delirium. I would have mood swings and spells of mania
when I would have violent thoughts. I thought of having a horrible sickness and of dying as pleasant alternatives to
my life. My father called often to make sure I was OK. My mother cried with worry when we talked.
I was depressed. I felt alone. I believed that everyone else was having a good time while I sat alone
and depressed. I was not alone. I later found out that many others were sitting in their rooms feeling the
same way — depressed and very alone.

Depression is not a rare experience. Depression is epidemic. In and around sophomore year and often after being abroad, many
students become depressed. It is not just a Davidson phenomenon either. Your friends at other schools feel similarly. For many,
it is simply a hard time and a hard age.

Why am I telling you this? I am writing this article as a warning and as a consolation. A warning
to those who have not been depressed, but may be soon (although I hope you never are) and a consolation
to those who are now. In relating my experience, I know well that it is not unique. There are many
more people with experiences of depression that are unfortunately far worse than my own. For some, like Zac Lacy, the
emptiness and the pain were more than they could bear.

If you are depressed, please, get help. Use the Counseling Center. It wasn’t until the fall of my Junior year
that I used it. It was wonderful. I should have gone over a year earlier, but I was prideful and
thought I could handle my own problems. Maybe I could, maybe I couldn't, but we must use everything at our
disposal that can help. Just trying to express how I felt to a third party helped so much. And heck,
with your $25,000 membership fee, you get 10 sessions free. Use them!

In the Davidsonian last week, both Bobby Vagt and Leland Park talked about the Davidson community as a family. I
would like to join them. We are a family. And like a family, we are not perfect. We have our
jerky older brothers and our bratty little sisters. We are not perfect. But, like a family, we are loving. Members
of a family support each other in times of trouble and sorrow. I saw that this week after the tragedy
of Zac Lacy’s death. The love and support shared from one person to another among students, faculty, and staff was
a beautiful thing. All the superficial divisions we build for ourselves blew away and left loving and concerned brothers and
sisters helping each other. We shouldn’t need a tragedy to have such love and support.It should remain always. Davidson is
not an individual experience; it is a group experience. We are in this race together, tied at the ankles, a
1601-legged race, and we must help each other along. Those of you in pain of depression, seek help. Those of
you who are approached for help, be a friend. You cannot usually cure depression, but you can be supportive and
give them all the love you can. No one should grieve unnecessarily. I say these things because you are members
of my family and I love you. This week, there is an event that all of you should attend. This
Thursday is Depression Screening Day. That night at 7:30 in the Union, there will be a meeting led by the
Health Services Staff about depression. It is not just for those who are depressed. It is also for those who
want to know how to be a friend to those who are. Come to help yourself and to learn about
helping others. For more information about this meeting or any other concerns, call the Counseling Center at 892-2451. Have a
great and safe fall break.

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1997

Lerner brings musical interests to Davidson
By DAVID KANG
Staff Writer

Hailing from Lexington, Ky., Neil Lerner is a musicologist who studies everything from the music of Bach and Handel to
the opening title music of Men In Black. His area of specialty and research is film music, a relatively new
field that is gaining widespread interest. Lerner spent his undergraduate years at Transylvania University, where he double-majored in music and
English while earning a minor in history. He continued his studies as a graduate student at Duke University, where he
received an A.M. and Ph.D. in musicology. While at Duke, Lerner taught several courses of his own design on film
music.

“As an English major, I studied a lot of film theory, criticism, and history,” Lerner said. “I also did a
lot of music. I sort of stumbled upon this way of combining the two interests by studying film music, the
history of it, and looking at how it works.”

Lerner just defended his doctoral dissertation in August. However, he is already scheduled to read papers at three national meetings
this year. Next month, Lerner will read a paper that deals with Aaron Copland’s influence on film music. “His music
is strongly identified as characteristic of certain American values,” Lerner said. “It’s musical work, but it’s also cultural work. I
try to hit it from both sides. I don’t think you can separate the musical part from the cultural part.”

Although the importance of music education is often undermined, Lerner’s musical passion stands undisturbed. He views music as a vital,
integral part of life. “I think about this a lot myself,” Lerner said. “I got my Ph.D., and I’m teaching
music now, but I still have an eye towards medical school and think that would be a useful way to
spend my time. But just keeping people alive — just sustaining life — that is awfully important work, and I
don’t take anything away from that.

“But there has to be stuff out there for people to live for, to enrich their lives for, and to
help them express themselves when they are alive. And you have to have music for all of that. It’s just
a constant part of our lives now. The thought of not studying music and not dealing with music in a
serious, critical way is tragic.”

While accompanying the Chamber Singers, Lerner is teaching two courses this term: Introduction to Music and Western Civilization and Introduction
to American Music. He plans to teach a film music class next semester. Lerner also expects to start working on
a book soon. Right now he is considering two subjects: government documentary films and how music works in them, and
the tracing of Copland’s sound through Hollywood.

Lerner has enjoyed his first few months at Davidson. The combination of teaching a field he loves and having smart,
motivated students has been very appealing to him. “The students I’ve seen so far are intellectually curious and seem to
be engaged by the material,” Lerner said. “These are the reasons people get into teaching, to see this kind of
excitement.

“The reason I am in musicology is because I have found music that I feel really passionate about. I’m doing
this because it’s fun. Once teaching and dealing with this stuff isn’t fun, I’m not going to do it anymore.
That’s the reward of my job, though — to try to get other people excited about these things.”

Project Life pasta dinner nets $1,200
By LIZ NEIHEISEL
Staff Writer

The Project Life Bone Marrow Committee served nearly 450 dinners in its Second Annual First Night Down Pasta Dinner Sept.
19 on Patterson Court. The dinner was a fund-raising effort by the committee to begin facilitating funds for the bone
marrow registry to take place Nov. 18 and 19 in the Union.

The pasta dinner was started last year by committee chairwoman Kate Stevens when Project Life found itself in need of
fast fundraising. Last year, the dinner gave Halls an opportunity to eat together in one of their final hall activities
of the year. This year, with more planning and publicity, the turnout was tremendous. With strong support from both the
freshmen class as well as upperclassmen, most notably seniors, Project Life totaled a net profit of $1,200 through the Pasta
Dinner.

“I feel like it was an enormous success,” Stevens said. Warner Hall and Sigma Alpha Epsilon both provided additional support
to the dinner. Alan Hyder and Bennett Thompson, juniors and members of SAE, and Craig Thompson provided musical accompaniment for
the dinner.

Project Life began on Davidson’s campus eight years ago. It was founded by David Lindsey, who before his freshman year
was diagnosed with leukemia. After undergoing cancer treatment and receiving bone marrow from his sister, Lindsey recognized the need for
donors. He began a movement on campus to register all Davidson students. With the help of former service director Katherine
Turner, the Project Life Bone Marrow Committee was formed.

Since the formation of the committee and as a direct result of Lindsey's efforts, over 2,000 people have been added
to the National Donor Registry, with seven donating bone marrow to needy recipients. The cost to type on campus each
year, subsidized through the Red Cross, is $12,000-$15,000.

Upcoming Project Life events include T-shirt sales as well as an ice cream social incorporating stories of those whose lives
have been touched by leukemia and Davidson’s program.
