The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
MONDAY, APRIL 7, 1997
VOLUME 88, NUMBER 23

Junior Tommy Wheeler does his best John Henry impression at Spring Frolics Friday afternoon. The frolicking festivities continued throughout the
weekend as the campus enjoyed its Spring fling. See page 12 for a full report.

HARD AT PLAY
Emily Smith

Tuition benefit cut proposed
By RANDY HARTWELL

Faculty, students reconsidering Humanities
By ANN CULP
News Editor

Like most courses in Davidson’s liberal arts curriculum, the two-year interdisciplinary Humanities program is intended to “encourage and reward clear
thinking, speaking, and writing,” according to the course catalogue. Long a Davidson academic cornerstone, the program’s reading list encompasses Greek
and Hebrew texts, the New Testament, literature from the Renaissance to the American and French revolutions, nineteenth-century diatribes, and twentieth-century
manifestoes.

The 224 freshmen and sophomores who participate every year receive course credit for religion, philosophy, literature, history, and composition, with
the participation of 19 professors in 9 different departments.

Now, particularly with the recent release of an external study of the program, some faculty and students think that with
so many disparate resources and intentions, the Humanities program is not able to accomplish even a few of its goals,
much less all of them.

The program, which was begun 27 years ago and has not been evaluated for 15 years, was evaluated by outside
reviewers this year. An official report was sent to Dean of Faculty Williams on Thursday and will be discussed by
Humanities staff on April 25.

“Any program needs to continue to reflect the interests, priorities, and goals of the staff, and that changes,” says Professor
of English and Humanities Gail Gibson.

Because Humanities embraces so many departments, it is difficult to conduct a comprehensive review. “What is frustrating is that Humanities
is so large and bureaucratic. It makes it more difficult than it should be for the program to reflect current
interests, current staff,” says Gibson.

Over the summer, faculty will be able to respond to the reviewers’ report and a strategic plan will be drafted
in the fall. Any potential changes will be presented to the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) in December and the faculty
next March.

“Humanities is something you have in common and there is something to be said for that. Folks who have had
Humanities have a new...”

see Humes on page 5

Is FLAG in trouble?
Cancellation of Sexuality Forum leaves future of FLAG in question
By SARAH TEACHWORTH
Staff Writer

The last-minute cancellation of the annual FLAG Sexuality Forum, scheduled for March 27, was a big surprise to the many
students who were planning to attend. The College community is left wondering why the popular event was cancelled and, more
broadly, what the cancellation means for the future of FLAG.

Rob Knight, who was the chairman of FLAG for a year and a half, explained that the five students who
intended...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

to “come out” at the Forum changed their minds after carefully considering the consequences of such a big step. The
students who were to speak determined that concerns about their social interactions and future careers were too great to warrant
going public with their sexual orientations. Knight says he found the cancellation of the forum to be "kind of discouraging."
FLAG’s current chair, Valerie Hansard, hopes that FLAG will be able to re-organize the Sexuality Forum for April 20. This
time, she says, they would like to get away from the “coming out” aspect of the event and bring in
other types of speakers. She hopes that the three open gays on campus will speak about how they have been
treated and she would like students who have gay friends or family members to speak about their experiences. There is
also an alumnus who has agreed to speak about what see FLAG on page 16

ARTS & LIVING.......... 12

Davidson, NC 28036

Editor-in-Chief

The last of three open forums on the tuition benefits plan for children of Davidson employees was held this afternoon
in Perkins Auditorium. It was the last opportunity for members of the community to voice their feelings publicly about the
policy before an advisory council’s formal proposal will be sent to President Kuykendall recommending cuts of up to 30% in
the compensation package. 78 dependents of College employees take advantage of the present tuition benefit plan. As of now, what
is termed the “Tuition Waiver Program” “provides tuition only for dependent spouse or children who meet all admission requirements to
Davidson College,” according to the Faculty Handbook. The “Tuition Grant Program” “pays tuition and standard fees applicable to all students
for dependent children attending accredited educational institutions other than Davidson College, but in no case more than 70 percent of
the Davidson College tuition cost for that semester.”

More simply, if the child or spouse of a College employee who had been working at Davidson for the required
“vesting period” of three years was admitted to Davidson, 100% of their tuition would be waived. If they attended a
school other than Davidson, the lesser of 100% of that school’s tuition, or 70% of Davidson’s cost could be applied
toward fees at that school. The Advisory Council for Finance, Personnel and Development (which is composed of six faculty members,
including Epes, two students, the SGA President as an ex-officio member, and an advisory board made up of heads of
related administrative divisions) is now proposing to limit tuition benefits to full-time employees hired on or before March 14, 1996
to 70% of Davidson’s tuition for dependents admitted to the College. For dependents at other schools, 70% of Davidson’s tuition
or 70% of that school’s tuition would be covered, whichever is less. In keeping the percentage the same, even when
costs are different, the College reduces pressure see Benefit on page 2

First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1
